-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Call of Duty 4: Modern Warfare
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/action/callofduty4modernwarfare/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 High-quality story mode packs in a lot of thrilling and unexpected moments.
 Well-designed multiplayer progression gives you something to shoot for online.
 Terrific audiovisual presentation.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Campaign mode is much shorter than those of the average shooter.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Nov  6, 2007
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 9
Critic Score: 9.2, 41 Review (s)
User Score: 9.2, 15,532 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Activision
Developer: Infinity Ward
Genre: Modern First-Person...
Date:     Nov 5, 2007 &raquo;  
ESRB: Mature

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
The single-player campaign is over in a flash, but the high quality of that campaign and its terrific 
 multiplayer options make Call of Duty 4 a fantastic package. 

  It took awhile, but Infinity Ward finally got the message that World War II is played out. With 
 modern times and international affairs becoming more and more, shall we say,  interesting  in recent 
 years, the 1940s just don't carry as much weight as they used to. Perhaps that's why Call of Duty 
 4 has a new subtitle, Modern Warfare. By bringing things into a fictionalized story that still 
 seems fairly plausible, the developer has made a much heavier game. But COD 4 is more than just 
 an updated setting. It's also an amazing multiplayer first-person shooter and a great but brief 
 single-player campaign with the visual chops to make it a standout shooter in an era filled with 
 seemingly dozens of standout shooters.  

           While the game may feel short, it covers a lot of ground.      

  The only real catch 
 is that the single-player is almost shockingly short. If you've been keeping up with this style 
 of game, you'll probably shoot your way to the credits in under five hours. While you can raise 
 the difficulty to give yourself more of a challenge, the main thing this does is make the enemies 
 frustratingly deadly, which sort of detracts from the fun.  

  While it may have a lack of single-player quantity, it makes up for most of it with its quality. 
 The game tells its story from multiple perspectives, and you'll play as a new British SAS operative 
 as well as a US Marine. The campaign takes you from a rainy night out at sea on a boat that's in 
 the process of sinking to a missile silo where it's on you to save millions from an unsavory nuclear-powered 
 death. Along the way, there are plenty of jaw-dropping moments where you'll look around the room 
 for someone to whom you can say, "I can't believe that just happened." In a world filled with war 
 games in which the good guys come out unscathed and the world is left at total peace, Call of Duty 
 4 will wake you up like a face full of ice water.  

  The action in the campaign is usually very straightforward. You have a compass at the bottom of 
 your screen, and the direction of your current objective is very plainly marked. But getting from 
 point A to point B is never as simple as running in a straight line, as you'll be conducting full-scale 
 assaults in Middle Eastern countries by moving from house to house, taking out what seems like 
 a never-ending stream of enemy troops along the way. You'll also get an opportunity to raid Russian 
 farmhouses in search of terrorist leaders, disguise yourself as the enemy, and, in one sequence, 
 don a brushlike ghillie suit and crawl through the brush as enemy troops and tanks roll right past 
 you. It's a breathtaking moment in a campaign filled with breathtaking moments. Unfortunately, 
 it's about half as long as the average shooter, and there are plenty of sequences where you wish 
 there were just one or two more hills to take.  

  Of course, if you're looking for longevity, that's where the multiplayer comes in. Up to 18 players 
 can get online and get into a match on one of 16 different maps. Many of the levels are taken from 
 portions of the single-player and they offer a healthy mix of wide-open, sniper-friendly areas 
 and tight, almost cramped spaces where grenades and shotguns are the order of the day. There are 
 six game modes to choose from. The old standby is team deathmatch, though you can also play in 
 a free-for-all deathmatch, which isn't as much fun as the team modes. The other modes are more 
 objective-oriented, and a couple of those have you lugging bombs across the map to blow up enemy 
 equipment, or preventing the enemy from blowing up your base. Others have you capturing control 
 points. Lastly, you can change up the game rules a bit with a hardcore setting that makes weapons 
 more realistically damaging or an old-school mode that puts weapons on the ground as pickups and 
 generally moves away from the simulation side of things.  

           The campaign takes you to multiple locales, but they're all full of guys who are begging 
 to be shot in the face.      

  In addition to just firing your weapon or tossing grenades, you earn some more interesting tactical 
 moves for skilled play. If you can shoot three opponents without dying, you're able to call in 
 a UAV drone, which basically is an upgraded radar that makes enemy positions show up on your onscreen 
 map for 30 seconds at any time. Normally, enemies blip up onto the map only if they fire their 
 weapon to make their location known. If you can go on a five-kill streak, you can call in an air 
 strike, which brings up a shot of the entire level map and lets you place the air strike wherever 
 you like. When combined with a UAV sweep, this can be really devastating. If you can make it all 
 the way to seven kills -- which is actually easier than it sounds -- you can call in a helicopter for 
 support. It'll buzz around the map and automatically open fire on enemies, though enemies can shoot 
 it down, too. These additions to the normal first-person shooter gameplay really open up the game 
 a lot and make it superexciting to play.     

  You'll also always have something to work toward, regardless of mode, because in standard, public 
 matches, you earn experience points for just about everything you do. Capturing control points, 
 getting kills, calling in support, all of these things give you points that go toward your rank. 
 Ranking up unlocks most of the game's multiplayer content.  

  The class system in Call of Duty 4 is also very interesting. Each class has a different weapon 
 loadout and different traits, called perks. As you rank up, you eventually unlock all five of the 
 preset classes and the ability to create your own class. This lets you pick your own main weapon, 
 your sidearm, attachments for both weapons, what sort of special grenades you want to carry, and 
 three perks. The perks are broken up into three groups to help keep things balanced, and as you 
 continue to level, you'll unlock additional perks. These class traits are one of the game's neatest 
 tricks and, again, really helps to set COD 4 apart from the pack.  

           We're pretty sure that real war doesn't look quite as cool as Call of Duty 4 does.    
   

  Perks in the Perk 1 group are more focused on explosives, letting you get more flashbangs if you 
 like, or letting you lug around a rocket launcher, which is great for taking out enemy choppers. 
 The other two perk groups have traits like juggernaut, which increases your health. There's also 
 last stand, which activates when you are killed by dropping you to the ground and switching you 
 to a pistol, giving you a moment to kill the guy who took you out before he realizes you're still 
 squirming around and finishes the job. Our current favorite is martyrdom, which causes you to drop 
 a live grenade when killed. It adds a healthy dose of mayhem to the proceedings. The perks and 
 other unlockables feel nicely balanced, too, so you probably won't run into situations where one 
 class is just better than the other. As it should be, your ability to point the red dot at the 
 head of your enemy and squeeze the trigger before he does the same is still the deciding factor. 

  While there are a ton of compelling gameplay reasons to play Call of Duty 4, it also has top-notch 
 presentation. The graphics are fantastic throughout, and they do a great job of rendering wide-open 
 fields, tight buildings or houses, smoke-belching silos, and lots more. Some of the multiplayer 
 maps look like they've already seen a lot of action, with blast craters, destroyed tanks, and other 
 things that you can hide in or behind. It also has terrific lighting, so everything looks as it 
 should. Everything sounds right, too. When you hear a battle raging in the distance, it sounds 
 appropriately muffled, and up close, the crack of an M16 or the full-auto barrage from an AK-47 
 are appropriately loud and angry sounding. There is also quite a bit of voice work throughout the 
 game, and it's all nicely done. The music, for the most part, is the typical sort of action-movie 
 music you've come to expect from a first-person shooter, except for a rap over the end credits 
 that seems to simultaneously detail the game's story while also acting as a subliminal diss record 
 with some slick talk about how this is the third chapter by Infinity Ward, perhaps lightly inferring 
 that you should ignore Treyarch's contribution to the series, Call of Duty 3. It's great.  

           There are plenty of things to unlock in the game's multiplayer mode.      

  COD 
 4 is available on the PlayStation 3, Xbox 360, and PC, and each version holds up admirably. The 
 differences between the two console versions feel mostly negligible. Both systems deliver good 
 frame rates and have good, easy-to-use multiplayer setups that most closely resemble Halo 2 and 
 3's party system and matchmaking playlists. The PC version of the game uses a more traditional 
 server browser to get you into games. Both systems work just fine on their respective platforms. 
 The PC version has the ability to run in a higher resolution, if you're equipped with a PC that 
 can handle it, but it seems to scale quite well. You can also create servers that allow up to 32 
 players to play at once on the PC, as opposed to a limit of 18 in the console versions, but given 
 the size of the multiplayer maps, putting 32 players in them makes things a little too crowded. 
 Despite listing 1080p support on the back of the box, COD 4 appears to prefer 720p on the PlayStation 
 3. The only way to get it to run in 1080p is to tell your PS3 that your TV doesn't support 720p 
 or 1080i, but the difference seems minor. Either way, you'd be hard-pressed to tell it apart from 
 its Xbox 360 counterpart. And all versions control just fine, making the decision over which version 
 to buy totally dependent on which controller you like the most.  

  It's a shame that the single-player is so brief, but you should only skip out on Call of Duty 4 
 if you're the sort of person who doesn't appreciate great first-person shooter multiplayer. The 
 quality of the content in the campaign is totally top-shelf, and the multiplayer is some of the 
 best around, making this a truly superb package.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (936 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: h3lluvagood
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 13, 2009 10:41 am PT
Review:  Great single player, though quite short, only about 10 hours. But it really shines in multiplayer, 
 there are many challenges, stuff to unlock, and levels to gain to keep you playing. Even without 
 those things, it would still be a hell of a good game. Better shooter than CS.
  
  Graphics are stunning, you see this in single player especially. Sounds are great. Just buy this 
 game.
  
  I don't have much more to say, but that this game is simply amazing, you will be playing till 4. am. 
 and still will not want to stop. The Slope is of course positive, as playing time will increase 
 the likelihood that you will enjoy the game even more. I'm serious, no bsing here. I mean I just 
 love this game so much buddy, like seriously. The community is also great, it is #2 played game 
 on Xfire, behind WoW. This alone should tell you that this is a great game, and a LOT of people 
 still play this!! There are about 16-17k servers online at any given time which is great. Lots 
 of variety, lots of maps as well. Also it just surpassed the 12 million mark, which is an obvious 
 stellar achievement! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: slammers722
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 8, 2009 8:13 pm PT
Review:  I think that Call Of Duty 4 is a great game. Some people think that it is too short but not me. In 
 my opinion the people who think it's too short just rushed through it. The game has very many cool 
 things in it that you should just stop and watch or figure out wy they did what they did. If you 
 just rush through it as fast as you can than it will be short if you just enjoy it it should be 
 just right. Call Of Duty 4 is a very good game from it's graphics too it's character voices and 
 sound affects. The voice acting is great, the sound affects are awsome, and the graphics are just 
 great. The multiplayer rocks you get ranks and XP points and you get to unlock cool wepons, ability's 
 ect. Right now I'm a second LT. This game even has rag doll and blood (You can turn them on and off 
 in the opions if you want) I recomend it if you want to have some fun on eather campain or multplayer. I 
 would give this game a 9.7 but I can't so I'll just give it a 9.5. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: oblivionwolf142
Rating: 7.5
Date: Apr 4, 2009 9:30 pm PT
Review:  After months of debate and many hours spent playing the PS3 version of the game with friends I 
 couldn't help myself from buying my own copy! Call Of Duty 4 is something special in my opinion. 
 At its core it's a very basic game with a lot of basic elements in play. But the thing that makes 
 this game shine is its story! Along with amazingly fast and ferocious fire fights around every 
 corner, this game makes you feel like you are in the action movie of your dreams! The visuals are 
 solid and the frame rate is grate! Not to mention the vast array of weapons you can pick up and 
 unleash on your enemy! This is my first COD game ever and it is defiantly a game I am proud to 
 have in my collection. I have played more hours on the single player portion of this game than 
 on the multiplayer side. If you enjoy action movies fast paced action and a grate story then this 
 is the game for you! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kingpin126
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 4, 2009 1:37 pm PT
Review:  You know a game is good when it kills you and you are still amazed. I've been stabbed, hit up the 
 side of the hit with the butt of a gun, been executed on national television, left to die of a 
 sinking boat, nuked, and have lost count of how many times I've been killed by grenades. Yet Call 
 of Duty 4 is so amazing and above the standards of its predecessors that it is, and should be, 
 referred to as a new franchise 'Modern Warfare'. Instead of giving you different levels of just 
 running and shooting. MW changes things up by switching characters around to provide different 
 style of operations. So you can be involved in large scale battles in a major city, and the next 
 level are moved to sneaking around in village in the middle of nowhere. In one level, you even 
 provide air cover for the squad you were just playing in the level beforehand. The varied and sometimes 
 completely unexpected changes in gameplay are a testament to the game's excellent design. The only 
 thing about the game I find annoying, is that you always have to stick your neck out for the squad. 
 Jackson/Soap grab the Javelin, Jackson/Soap take point, Jackson/Soap take out that tank/helicopter, 
 etc. This of course is a necessary evil of FPS game design, but sometimes I just feel like my squad 
 secretly doesn't like me, and has a target painted on my back. Still, MW is so good i would risk 
 my life for my country... and Infinity Ward. Good job guys.
  
  P. S. The multiplayer is good too, but its not like anyone with a sex life cares. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GG-raaaaiiiiiii
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 1, 2009 2:44 pm PT
Review:  Call of Duty 4 is a spectacular game, both the single player and the multiplayer.
  
  The single player side of the game has a variety of missions, in a wide variety of environments. 
 The story is good, and keeps you wanting to play more. The most enjoyable mission more me was when 
 you start off walking through a swamp-esque area at night, with silencers in hand and your squad 
 at your side. The final mission is also extremely interesting, fighting your way through a plane 
 and having to shoot over a hostage's shoulder to kill the final bad guy.
  
  What really sells this game for me is the multiplayer. I enjoy some competitive gaming, and CoD4 
 really hits the mark. Playing 5v5 against another team, and having to plant a bomb Counter-Strike 
 style plays well in the CoD environment. Working together is essential, as defenders usually have 
 a huge advantage on positioning.
  
  The weapon selection is good and fairly balanced. Sniping in most games can be overpowered, but 
 CoD4 is only second to Team Fortress 2 in it's handling of the sniper rifle. Having to breathe 
 before you shoot, as well as not always killing targets in one shot is fair. Most of the other 
 weapons are well done, my only annoyance comes with the shotguns. Once you reach a certain range 
 from your target, it is impossible to touch them with a shot. While I don't want to be able to 
 snipe with shotguns, they should still have a slim chance of hitting things for low damage at a 
 distance. It's extremely frustrating when you unload three or four shots right out of range and 
 not hit anything.
  
  Overall, CoD4 is a worthwhile game for single player, and a must have for multiplayer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Naikori
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 28, 2009 8:13 am PT
Review:  The Call Of Duty Series is best known for it's WWII settings. But, this time, it goes away from 
 WWII and heads over to Modern Times. It's a great start and the game has a superb Single-Player 
 and Multiplayer.
  
  Pros and Cons:
  + Engaging Single Player
  + Addictive Multiplayer
  + Beautiful Voice Acting
  + New System for Multiplayer
  + Great 
 Modes for Multiplayer
  
  - The Single Player Campaign is shorter than an average Shooter.
  
  
  
  The Single Campaign 
 put you in the shoes of two soldiers. The first one is named Sgt, Paul Jackson, who works with 
 the U. S. M. C. Then you have Sgt. Soap McTavish, who works with the S. A. S. You play as both throughout 
 the Story. In the middle of the story, something bad will happen to one of the Soldiers. The Main 
 Plot is to stop a ultranationalist named Imran Zakhaev. He's making a weapon the could destroy 
 most of the world, which you need to stop him.
  
  The only thing thats bad about the game is that the Campaign is shorter than most of the other 
 Shooters out there today. It should only take you 3-5 hours long to beat. The Voice Acting, though, 
 helps out the Single Player with the Superbness of it.
  
  Once you go away from the Single Campaign, you have the tremendous Muliplayer. Infinity Ward spent 
 most of their time on this part of the game, and they did a great job on it.
  
  You have levels in the Multiplayer, and when you have levels, you have Experience Points. You get 
 your Experience Points for how well you did in the Match, as well as how well your entire team 
 preformed. You get your score calculated and there is your Experience Points. The Highest Level 
 you can reach is 55. Whn you reach that level, you get 5-6 Gold Weapons. Two of them include a 
 Desert Eagle and an AK-47
  
  There is a little fun Mechanic in the game called Create-A-Class. What you do here is your choose 
 your Primary/Secondary weapon and you get to choose three Perks. Perks ae little abilities that 
 can help you out in the game. Some of the Perks are being able to not show up on a UAV, Drop a 
 Live Grenade when you die, and to get 2 RPG's to use.
  
  There is a lot of Game Modes to play. They include Team Death Match, Hardcore Team Deathmatch, 
 Search And Destroy, Hardcore Search And Destroy, Headquarters, Sabotage, and many more. The Hardcore 
 Game Modes are just like any of the Game Types, but you have No HUD, No pop up if a grenade is 
 near you, Friendly Fire Enabled, and your health is reduced to 30, instead of 100.
  
  When you get a certain amount of Kills in-game, your able to call in either a UAV, an Airstrike, 
 or a Helicopter. 3 Kills for UAV, 5 Kills for Airstrike, and 7 Kills for Helicopter. UAV is a map 
 that show Red Dots, which is the enemy. Airsrtikes are Jets that shoot bombs in the area of your 
 choosing. Helicopters Fly around the map getting Kills for you. Helicopters can be shot down, though.
 
  
  There's also a good amount of Challenges. Challenges are goals that you need to make for a weapon, 
 Kills, Deaths, Sprinting, and other stuff. When you complete a challenge during a match, you get 
 XP for it. It makes the Replay Value longer.
  
  Overall, Call Of Duty 4: Modern Warfare is a really fun game. Even though the Single Campaign is 
 short, it stills covers a lot and is engaging. And with a highly addictive Multiplayer, you should 
 not miss out on a game like this. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ned_Flandish
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 27, 2009 5:38 pm PT
Review:  In a few short years, Call of Duty became one of the most storied World War 2 shooter franchises 
 around. Call of Duty, United Offensive, Call of Duty 2, and even Call of Duty 3 to an extent received 
 quite a bit of praise from Gamespot and other game critics. However, Call of Duty 4 for the PC 
 might just be the best game that the series has to offer.
  Call of Duty 4 is a complete package. The single-player experience is fantastic and the multi-player 
 is great as well. The game has very high production values and as a result both graphics and sound 
 are very good.
  The single-player game, while very enjoyable, doesn't have much replay value. Once you pick it 
 up, you won't want to stop playing. Unfortunately, it does eventually end and you are left wondering 
 what to do. When you beat the game, an arcade mode option is added but it's not really worth going 
 through the whole game.
  However, the single-player doesn't really need much replay value for the simple reason that the 
 multi-player has that covered. Call of Duty 4's multi-player is nothing short of fantastic. There 
 is a good amount of game modes, ranging from simple deathmatches to counter-strike esque search 
 and destroy matches to territory battles in a Battlefield esque domination game type. No matter 
 what kind of fps you like to play, there is an online game mode here that you will love.
  Along with the varied game modes, you also have a choice of many different types of weapons to 
 use and maps to play. Most of the maps are taken from the single-player mode and then optimized 
 for multi-player. The maps themselves aren't all that visually unique, but the types of matches 
 you play are very different. Each map has it's own "feel" and you will find yourself very much 
 enthralled in the multi-player.
  If your team wins, you get kills, or you complete objectives, you get experience. This experience 
 is used to level up which in turn unlocks new weapons for your character in multi-player mode. 
 This is generally a good system but at times it seems a bit unfair to newer players who don't have 
 access to the entire arsenal.
  Technically, Call of Duty 4 is decent. At this point, most of the major bugs have been fixed and 
 the game is very stable. The graphics, even though they are over a year old now are still passable. 
 They were some of the best out there at the time of release. The sound, specifically the voice 
 acting in single-player is excellent, and it really does add to the experience that you are really 
 taking part in these conflicts.
  I would highly recommend Call of Duty 4 to any fan of first person shooters. No matter what kind 
 of fps you enjoy, you will find something to like in Call of Duty 4, and once you find what that 
 is, you'll never be able to put it down. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: siddarthshetty
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 27, 2009 4:48 am PT
Review:  If u are not a first person shooter game fan then also i tell u to play this game u will surely 
 love it, i tried it myself with my friends...
  The story of this game is divided in to different character each of them is very good.. I loved 
 the mission with cpt macmallion in which we both killed more than 100's of enemies..
  The best thing about the game is involvement of players also every single instructions will be 
 told what to do what not in the mission e. g :I was aiming an enemy then our cpt tells first aim 
 at the enemy sniper on that tower your call... Also the dogs give many problems in the game i really 
 hate those dogs u have to be very quick and press v to avoid bite...
  Since this is the first COD series i have played cannot say the game is same as the previous editions 
 but i will say since the game is based on storyline our cpts are like immortal they will not die 
 no matter how much bullets that hits them which could have improved
  The weapons in the game is really cool their handling is also very good which many of the games 
 do not posses these days...
  Call of Duty modern warfare 2 is coming in 2009 so i hope it is also very good... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: auronlb
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 24, 2009 9:26 pm PT
Review:  as it says big deal you kill people like other first person shooters right? WRONG this game delivers 
 that but this game also is modern which not vary meny games can say they made a good one yeah this 
 game is a keeper it gives you a good feel with guns to choose from making classes are fun too and 
 online... this is the best part wait for it...... NO HACKERS yes thats right no hackers there are 
 hacks tho you must be saying how can there be no hackers but still be hacks? well lets put it this 
 way if one guy does a fly hack everyone flys if somone does a 1 shot random kill every one gets 
 it see? i also like how this game has all diffrent ranges of weapons you wont get tired of the 
 guns for a long time... i can tell you one thing this game you will be playing all day every day 
 for a range of 4 to 7 months if your a big fan of first person shooters another thing is this game 
 has storyline mode which can be fun too so pretty much this game is a over all dang good game if 
 you think this got to much hype then your once again WRONG theres also alot of game modes lvls 
 and alot of players this game got all the hype it deserved with a pinch of ownage i mean a bucket 
 full! so this game gets a 9.0 outa 10 thats all for now thats auronlbs new review and i will be 
 seeing yall next time! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: notyq80
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 23, 2009 7:10 am PT
Review:  simply the best online game there is, people got addicted to it so much that they forgot about 
 new games that are available in the market.. you will c friends playing this game for hours and 
 hours a day as if there is nothing to do.. the tactics, the guns, the graphics, the sound, the explosions.. its 
 just perfect. ppl are waiting for the new modern warfare to come out.. but still there is a big 
 question.. will ppl change the game that they have been playing for almost two years for almost 
 each day?
  who knows :P ?
  i think. in my opinion. what made it big all over the world is that there is arabic content. such 
 as arab soldiers, arabic maps, arabic text in shops, and ofcourse arabic language when playing 
 an arab terrorest
  so to make a big hit all over again.. they need to add a fair amount of arab terrorist or solders 
 or even language between them when playing, like reloading or throwing frag bombs.
  hope that it happens 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JerryYeh712
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 22, 2009 2:55 am PT
Review:  I like realistic military simulations ( like Operation Flashpoint ) , and arcade style shoot'em 
 up ( Unreal Tournament series ) , sometimes I wonder if you could mix both style together into one 
 game, how good would that be? Well when COD 4's first demo was out, I was amazed by it right away, 
 I knew then this is the game I 've been waiting for, although it's not as realistic as other military 
 sims, but that doesn't means you can just play it like other arcade shooters, all the weapons in 
 the game are well modeled, sounded, and the storyline is like a mixture of many great military 
 theme movie of the past decade, you can see some familiar part of the game from the movie Black 
 Hawk Down, spy game, behind enemy lines.... etc, they don't just copy the scenes, they blend into 
 the world of the game really good, another part that makes the game so great is the soundtrack, 
 we have our Harry-Gregson Williams at the helm, what can we say? he's one of the best composer 
 out there in the world, from the deep and mythic theme of the SAS, to the blood-pumping guitar 
 US-Marine theme, all feels right for the background and the scenes, maybe this game won't be the 
 best FPS of all time, but it sure has made it's place in history. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CrysisFPS
Rating: 6
Date: Apr 9, 2009 1:01 am PT
Review:  I would rate it much higher than six, but I cannot do that when I see a lot of underrated games 
 out there. Call of Duty 4 is a good game. There is no doubt about it. However, it is not all I 
 believed it to be. I shall now list what is good and bad about it.
  
  The Good:
  
  The graphics are amazing. Sure, they are no Crysis, but the lighting and detail really did make 
 make you feel a part of the action. Sometimes I forgot that I was playing a computer game due to 
 that.
  
  Multiplayer is fun. the single player is better than most in the COD series and the story is pretty 
 good considering that this is totally fictional.
  
  The combat is perhaps the main highlight. It is intense and what makes it fun and realistic is 
 the sound and explosions and animation and the fact that enemies do not absorb more than two bullets 
 before death. Blood has been introduced in this one so it feels more real.
  
  Music is amazing. It is an absolute must-listen and often makes a lot of moments feel very cinematic.
 
  
  The bad:
  
  Did I just sound like I would rate this a perfect ten? Wait till you hear the bad points. First 
 of all, the gameplay is fun, but there was very little it offered. It seems Infinity Ward copied 
 to much of it from CoD3. Of course, CoD4 is a sequel so that is what you expect, but Infinity Ward 
 removed a lot of stuff as well and added only a few new things to the gameplay, so it felt far 
 too basic (and they say World At War is a COD4 remake) . I enjoyed some things like hand-to-hand 
 combat with the dogs and the fact that melee attack was a knife and not a rifle butt and that you 
 could shoot through walls, but otherwise, there was nothing so special (Still feel like the smart 
 guys, Infinity Ward?) . I heard that some people said that the environment was destructible. That's 
 a lie. Yes, the physics have improved from the previous games, but the only thing you can really 
 destroy is cars and that's it.
  
  The story was good, but it did not feel like it provided an EMOTIONAL experience. There weren't 
 many good characters. They were often quite similar to one another and there is almost no emotion 
 at all. The only characters I did like were Griggs and Macmillan, but most like Price and Gaz were 
 almost like robots. Shouting was the only change in character that I could hear. Otherwise, they 
 always were in the same mood and just saying "blow the charge" or "let's get to it" and things 
 like that. In the previous Call of Duties and in the fifth one, the characters were a lot more 
 memorable and emotional.
  
  They said this game does not glorify war, but that is not quite true. There are some powerful moments 
 like the ending and the aftermath of the nuclear explosion, but due to the lack of emotion and 
 depth in the characters, it makes it look like army training can make you fearless. Did Infinity 
 Ward watch Saving Private Ryan or Jarhead? It is clear that they did not and just assumed that 
 a mushroom cloud in the video game will make people think that war is THAT bad. It was only when 
 I experienced the characters in World At War did I feel what real war would be like.
  
  Also, the game was far too linear and scripted for my liking. There were a lot of boundaries and 
 invisible walls in most missions. Not all the missions were like that, but the best ones were especially, 
 therefore offering little replayability. An example of the tight scripting was a sniper mission 
 (Spoilers in the rest of the paragraph) . In that mission you had to assassinate a person with a 
 sniper, the outcome was always the same ... wherever you hit him, he survived with his arm blown 
 off. I hit his head, but even then, it was his arm that was decapitated. The fact that it is a 
 flashback sequence makes it acceptable, but Infinity Ward could have improved on it, making parts 
 like that make more sense as to how the outcome occurs, but I guess that they were a wee bit lazy.
 
  
  Conclusion:
  
  I know that some people are sick of WW2 games so therefore, turned to this installment in the series. 
 However, you cannot judge a game by its setting. The game is a bit of a disappoint but it is not 
 something I am going to sell any time soon. However, that does not mean that I do not regret buying 
 it at all either, so if you want games with realism and good replayability, try World At War or 
 the original call of Duties or Battlefield Bad company. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: figsnake12
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 21, 2009 4:56 pm PT
Review:  The Call of Duty series is a highly established WW2 shooter series that competes with other series 
 like Medal of Honor and Brothers in Arms. Whereas the latter focuses on team tactics and player 
 cunning, Medal of Honor has always followed a highly unrealistic interpretation of the war. I hate 
 both games. I don't need every aspect of the war to be perfectly represented, but Medal of Honor 
 manages to bastardize so many elements that I feel a deep set hatred (being someone who has a great 
 personal interest in 20th century history) . Brothers in Arms is the polar opposite, being so obsessed 
 with realism that the game ceases to be fun. So my two options for a mainstream WW2 fps are either: 
 A) A game designed for over exited eight year olds with zero historical knowledge, or B) A game 
 made for realism junkies, whose main goal in life is to receive irreversible war trauma, but were 
 rejected by the army? 
  
  No. Call of Duty manages to maintain an acceptable level of accuracy, while being fun. More fun, 
 even, than the Medal of Honor series, because I don't have to wince every ten seconds. And so I 
 come onto the actual game at hand; Call of Duty 4. 
  
  COD 4 represents a desperate attempt to save the series after they basically re-released COD 2 
 as COD 3. Unlike most desperate attempts, this one actually worked. So what is it that makes COD 
 4 so great? 
  
  First up are the graphics. People tend to get stuck on graphics, partially because it's the most 
 noticeable advance and partially because most gamers don't really understand anything else. Games 
 of one era tend to have similar graphics, which just proves how pointless the hype is. Anyway, 
 COD 4 gets a mention because many of the scenes here are frankly beautiful and graphics are definitely 
 a high point. 
  
  Second is the story. Most first person shooters don't have much of a story to speak of, and that's 
 OK, because the main focus is on gameplay. COD 4 earns a few extra brownie points by including 
 a immersive story that is integrated into gameplay very well and manages to keep up. The story 
 itself is far from original. It could have been decided with a role of the die: It's a  Crisis, 
 Involving  Nuclear missiles, In Russia. Oh gee, that's never been done before. 
  
  Thirdly I come to Gameplay. The ultimate goal of gameplay is to make the game immersive and COD 
 4 fulfills that task brilliantly. Really everything ties together in gameplay; the story, the graphics, 
 the controls; everything. And that's how it should be. Gameplay is also brilliantly varied as you 
 go from large scale invasions by the US Marine Corps to sneaking through grass wearing a camouflage 
 suit with the SAS. Add the graphical beauty and the scale you feel when you're playing the game, 
 and gameplay definitely becomes COD 4s best aspect. 
  
  So how do I conclude? COD 4 is a fantastic game that strong foundations and a strong structure. 
 It isn't perfect; it's not very intellectual, all the enemies are very similar looking, and it 
 tries and fails to bring many aspects across subtly. I can't argue with it winning game of the 
 year. It fully deserves it. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: cibao123
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 20, 2009 9:19 am PT
Review:  I love this game! it wraps you and let you think you really are in the field.
  Shame that it is a short game or is it that the game leave you asking for more. Yes! probably. 
 I Wish that that it will be a little longer.
  Like the Chernobyl near site mission. Prypiat the abandon town in the game is very much look alike 
 than the real one. Very vivid and real scenary with the danger of radiation and abandon apartments 
 and buildings. Never thought that this was like that until I saw a docummental on Discovery channel 
 named "Chernobyl 23 years later". My god! (speechless)
  
  Well, back on the game. This game lets you play not only as a first shooter soldier, but also a 
 C-130 gunman at night. Great mission. Always being a part of a group, as is in real life. A soldier 
 is never alone. He has his team mates. You begin in a training facility and then you have to complete 
 the missions. 
  The command center sends you to several countries and different scenarios.
  
  Theres even a detonation of an A-Bomb similar to a nuclear device. 
  
  Your character 
 eventually will die and you keep playing as another soldier.
  
  In Veteran mode the game is very, very difficult to complete, but fascinating.
  
  Ive played 
 all COD games, including the new COD5 World At War, also the Brothers in Arms series, F. E. A. R, 
 Far-Cry and Half Life series, but none of these are better that COD4 Modern Warfare. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: The_Fat_Zebra
Rating: 7
Date: Apr 3, 2009 12:14 pm PT
Review:  I recently picked up this game since I never got around to it last year. I first gave it a 5/10, 
 but that is entirely due to the fact that I did not start the game on regular difficulty. I was 
 very much entertained by the story which was compelling and could suck you in. However, people 
 should not overlook that there are flaws which for me lead to serious scepticism towards Gamespot's 
 9/10: 
  - The difficulty levels are ridiculuous. Rather than making the enemy smarter they make you the 
 bullet magnet. This is something I really dislike about games in general and not only this one. 
 I think that difficulty levels should impact AI becoming more cunning, and not just giving it superpowers 
 or something of that sort.
  - Your teammates are at times a useless bunch of retards. Really, Ive regularly seen them stand 
 in the middle of enemies without getting killed or killing the enemy. Additionally, you can often 
 see them standing in the middle of somewhere shuddering from the amount of gunfire they are taking. 
 This is not even arcade-like but weird. take cover already!
  - The enemies are not too bright either and sometimes its more of a spawnfest a la the russian 
 army in stalingrad.
  - While call of duty is always scripted, there are really too many invisible walls. Furthermore, 
 it's scripted so tight that it's as if you are playing a war movie. At times this is perfect, because 
 it pulls you in the story more than any other game, but in between those occasions some more freedom 
 would not hurt.
  
  Now, those were all negatives. Here's the positive: I still enjoyed the game on regular difficulty 
 :-) I'm just thinking the above points stop the game from reaching total awesomeness. Suppose that 
 the current great things about the game (such as the story, fast pace, etc) would be combined with 
 intelligent AI on both sides and with a few more options such as brothers in arms, CoD 4 would 
 become simply unbeatable in genre. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tidruG
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 19, 2009 5:11 am PT
Review:  I have not played any of the previous Call of Duty games, nor have I, in fact, played any other 
 war-based games. So when I popped it in and started playing it, the first thing I felt was a little 
 frustrated at the presence of so many enemies. I'm much more used to a linear style of play, where 
 you storm room after room, you're alone, and you take on the enemies that come at you.
  
  Call of Duty 4 is a different experience altogether, when compared to the stereotypical FPS. For 
 one thing, you'll rely a lot more on your team-mates. You CANNOT take on everyone by yourself.
 
  
  The single-player story is very immersive. It captivates you, and is told in a style that really 
 grabs you and keeps you hooked, especially in one scene where a lead character dies. I would rather 
 not post a spoiler... you just have to play it to know it.
  
  However, it must be said that the game is rather short. In spite of this, it covers a lot of ground, 
 with different missions and gameplay. For one thing, you cannot use only one style of shooting 
 throughout the game. One level requires you to get close to tanks to plant C4 on them, another 
 entire level revolves around sniping in a ghillie suit (this particular mission seemed to me to 
 stretch the bounds of acceptable reality, but it was probably one of the more challenging and fun 
 missions) , shooting targets from a gunship/helicopter. Either the game really is short, or it just 
 leaves you begging for a LOT more action.
  
  Bottom line: PLAY THIS GAME, at least so that you can tell your grandchildren before you die that 
 you played this game through.
  
  PS: Don't forget to play the bonus mission after the credits... be patient. Let the credits roll 
 through entirely, which is followed by a bonus mission. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: truemattyz
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 18, 2009 5:40 pm PT
Review:  This is truly one of the best fps i have owned, and was in the best year ive had in gaming so far. 
 the call of duty series has done nothing but impress me from the first one they made. they really 
 are setting a standard for fps format and especially those of the world war series to follow, this 
 is trully a spectacular game and is one of my favs of all time, i recently completed the world 
 at war game and had to go back to this one to compare and both are extrodinarily brilliant but 
 this one just does everythign right for me. 
  
  the settings are fantastic and i think the enjoyability factor is what makes this game shine threw, 
 the weapons are perfect as well as the sounds and graphics, and the voice acting isnt bad either. 
 i really cant wait for the next instalment to arrive. im sorry if this is a short review but i 
 think i sum il up with .... this game rocks !!!!!!!! must have !!!!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: orcsblade
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 17, 2009 1:14 pm PT
Review:  This has got to be one of the most intense FPS I have played to date. Call of Duty 4 is one of 
 the best games to come out in the last few years for alot of reasons. The graphics, the sound, 
 the environments. 
  The graphics are mind blowingly realistic and spectacular. Sound of the guns sound like they're 
 really there in front of you. The plot is quite possibly the best of a plot I have ever seen in 
 a video game. When I got done playing, I was saddened, then I had to go tell everyone I know to 
 buy this game. 
  People say that the SP is too short which I do agree, (I finished playing this game after around 
 10 hours but it has alot of replay value. The missions vary quite nicely and there is a nice choice 
 of weapons) but if you play it on the "Hardened" difficulty setting it will take that much longer 
 to complete, you'll die more often, but that just means you have to strategically take cover and 
 rely more on your teammates than you thought. I'd say it doubled the amount of gameplay I got out 
 of it. The missions vary quite nicely and there is a nice choice of weapons. The enemy AI is very 
 good, better than most. Grenades get thrown back at you if you start chucking grenades at bad guys. 
 Enemies set traps and snipe effectively. 
  The ending blew my mind I actually nearly cried by it, what video game can do that. I truly felt 
 like I was part of the game, part of a "real" event taking place. More games need to do this, and 
 not just at the end. I actually had started to care about the characters its that realistic. This 
 is one of the best fps games i have ever played!!!!!!!!!!!!!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: mulok2008
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 5, 2009 2:17 pm PT
Review:  After getting this on release and playing and clanning i have only now become bored. According 
 to Xfire i have played around 200 hours of this (*wince thats a little too much*) . So from this 
 it is understandable that i think this is a great game and i shall now explain why.
  
  I will start with the single player first. Well its an action packed ride with great graphics and 
 non-repetative gameplay. The sniping sections in the Ukraine were particularly enjoyable for me. 
 Along with the amazing SAS missions which i have never experieced quite the same feeling of actually 
 being there! However the single player campaign is only about 10 hours long if played on highest 
 difficulty. This is the downside, it is intense and thrilling but leaves you wanting more. This 
 wanting more is not a problem if you like multi-player however :D......
  
  Was addicted to the multi player from its release for a month or two just playing public and it 
 was great. Getting all the achievements and challenges is very fulfilling. You get your 50th kill 
 with a weapon and BAM you have a silencer for it. The feeling when you see that weapon all those 
 other people have is finally unlocked is great. Obviouly some perks ala martidom (dropping a live 
 grenade on death) annoy many people, but its all part of the fun! You call in airstrikes, UAVs 
 and helicopters as you get kills which are all great/ 
  
  The real thing for me was the great fun i had in clan matches with tactics and playing with others. 
 Many perks dropped along with heli's uavs and AS, for matches best game for tactical fps clanning 
 in my opinion.
  
  In conclusion, the 10 hour single player is probably worth the money alone (only just) when compared 
 to other fps (e. g. farcry 2) .
  The multiplayer on the other hand; wether it be casual or clan based can keep you hooked for 100s.
 
  
  (this is obviously a PC review as i have not played it on consoles) .
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kro_429
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 2, 2009 6:03 pm PT
Review:  The first thing you notice about CoD4 is a weird taste. You lick your lips a bit, play a few levels, 
 and still can't put your finger on it. But, if you play it long enough, you'll recognize that slightly 
 console game feel to it; the style that originated from Halo and has absorbed its way into any 
 major game on a console. Halo has no place in Call of Duty and that semblance of a presence is 
 the only thing that detracts from this otherwise fantastic game.
  
  The graphics are, of course, incredibly good, and system requirements aren't too steep to obtain 
 them. The sound is excellent, artillery strikes sound real, the guns don't sound weak, and voice 
 acting is done very well.
  
  Above all, Call of Duty has always been known for its pure intensity. It's classified by that fast 
 paced gameplay that pushes you through greatly detailed levels in a fairly decent storyline. It 
 delivers here, as always, in that respect and you'll find no shortage of enemies to power through. 
 The ending was good, and the path to get there was excellent as well. It isn't easy for a developer 
 to make a linear unimaginative singleplayer and still make it good, but somehow Infinity Ward was 
 able to deliver.
  
  Multiplayer is where this game truly shines though. While the ranks go by so fast you'll be at 
 55 before you even start trying, there is no shortage of challenges (achievements) to obtain and 
 the modifications to the weapons are definitely worth the effort. This slight RPG aspect will keep 
 you coming back for more long after you might have gotten tired of slightly repetitive gameplay 
 in surprisingly cramped maps. Maps like shipment and wetwork are so simplistically pathetic that 
 you really start to dislike the game after playing them, but then it'll switch to crash or pipeline 
 and all is forgiven. Snipers are the lowest point in the game, in many maps they aren't even practical 
 and the hit detection tends to be fairly pathetic. The fact that the Barret .50 CAL doesn't even 
 one hit people in some instances is absolutely inexcusable and really kills the mood. On the opposite 
 end, however, hardcore mode is a nice touch and creates an extremely realistic experience for those 
 willing to risk 1 or 2 bullet deaths from a machine gun.
  
  Call of Duty 4 is a must have for any hardcore FPS player and is a great alternative to Battlefield 
 for those looking for a similar online crowd while avoiding the long travel distances and slower 
 paced action. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ttime32
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 1, 2009 12:02 pm PT
Review:  I had big expectations going in to Call of Duty 4. The first PC game I personally bought was the 
 original Call of Duty and I was blown away not just by the graphics but everything about the game 
 at the time and just how much better it was than Medal of Honor (which I also liked) . That turned 
 into me later buying the expansion pack (United Offensive) which I liked even more and then Call 
 of Duty 2 which was also a great game. Call of Duty 3 was kind of a letdown for me though, I rented 
 it for 360 and just didn't seem like a true Call of Duty game. Then Call of Duty 4 came out, I 
 rented it for 360 and beat the game quick but didn't want to buy it for some reason. I really wanted 
 it for PC and I didn't have a computer at the time that would run it that well, maybe medium at 
 best and I didn't want to experience Call of Duty on medium, that was for certain. Then I got a 
 new gaming laptop for school work and soon after bought Call of Duty 4. Every aspect of this game 
 is great. The graphics are beautiful yet, they are not overly demanding on a computer. The sound 
 is excellent and immersive, surround sound would be nice but it sounds great on my 2.1 system. 
 Gameplay is the perfection of first person shooters, and very responsive. In singleplayer there 
 isn't a boring moment, so even though it is kind of short it is more than satisfying. And of course 
 the best part is the multiplayer. It is great. I do wish that you advanced through the ranks a 
 lot slower though because pretty much everyone gets to be a lvl. 55 fairly quick. The only thing 
 it is missing is some huge multiplayer maps with vehicles in it (which is what I liked most about 
 United Offensive) and CTF game mode. Where is CTF? But anyways the multiplayer is still great. 
 This game is worth every penny no matter if you own a gaming PC, Xbox 360 or PS3 if you like anything 
 to do with shooting or war, this will make a great addition to your collection. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: x360maniac55
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 18, 2009 4:08 pm PT
Review:  COD4 is an awsome game, personally i find that the campaign could of been way better but the multiplayer 
 seriously owns. The graphics of the gun selections are horrible and they 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chessmaster1989
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 16, 2009 8:48 pm PT
Review:  Call of Duty 4: Modern Warfare offers a welcome break from the traditional World War II shooters, 
 which are fun, but there are only so many times that you can run up to a tank and put a sticky 
 bomb on it. It offers modern, better weapons, which, among other things, have better sights, making 
 aiming much easier (which, in a game in which the purpose is to shoot things, is a distinct advantage) .
 
  
  Unlike Call of Duty and Call of Duty 2, Call of Duty 4: Modern Warfare focuses on a distinct plot, 
 which includes multiple different characters, whose stories are interconnected. This is a good 
 break from the first two, which are fun, but which do not really have engaging plots. True, it's 
 not the best story ever made, but it definitely keeps you wanting to play more.
  
  Overall, in terms of tactics and the plotline, this is perhaps the best first-person shooter ever 
 made. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dark__Warrior
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 15, 2009 12:01 pm PT
Review:  Some games really prove to be boring and not worth playing it, but this game unlike any other just 
 made the right combination of everything.
  
  The first level of the game just makes u eagerly waiting to play and see the rest of campaign. They 
 talk in way that makes people think that they are in real fight.
  
  The story includes the old captain price from call of duty 2, but this time in modern wepons and 
 technology. what makes it better is that when u play, they demonstrate the real human interactions 
 when u fall down in a cut scene or get hit by a bullet and so on. During certain missions in the 
 campaign, u play with a gun from a plane or a car, these missions prove to be so exciting to play 
 in as u take the opportunity to kill enemies while they are not seeing you.
  
  In my opinion the first and the last missions where the most intense parts of the game because 
 u run through certain hard situation where u must run fast just like the collapsing boat at the 
 first mission.
  
  Also, the thing that i adored is the music of the game whether it is in the gameplay or at the 
 main menu, all of the music is basicaly wonderfull.
  
  
  Finally, Multiplayer, The multiplayer gameplay was facsinating, have all of these snipers, submachine 
 guns and so on was aewsome. In addition, the idea of calling airstrikes and helicopters added to 
 the game more and more of its wonderful charachters.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Snowshoe
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 14, 2009 9:25 pm PT
Review:  This is a pretty fun game. It's a present day shooter, while you do a missionback in history" 
 to learn about a present day mission. The Weapons and their effects seem to be realistic. The story 
 is compelling and and plot is built nicely. The cut scenes are nicely done to develop the story. 
 You play several different missions and characters. Some missions you play include infiltrating 
 a cargo ship, urban warfare, group assault on enemy and rescue missions. The retro mission is played 
 as a sniper wearing full camouflage. One real highlight is playing a gunner in a gun ship protecting 
 a convoy.
  
  I only have a few beefs. Before you know it the game is over. You get the sense that enemies are 
 continuously being generated until you reach certain locations
  
  This game is well worth it, and I have played through it several times. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Soadforever1
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 13, 2009 5:41 am PT
Review:  When i played call of duty 4 modern warfare i was totally amazed. Call of duty 3 didn't come out 
 for pc so i was waiting for this one very much. My opinion is that call of duty 4 has one of the 
 best game plays i have ever seen. Apart from that it is not difficult to play cause of the good 
 movement of the weapon the player is using. The single player of this game is magnificent i have 
 to say. I personally finished the game 5 times, without getting bored. It's one of the most addictive 
 FPS ever seen. Even when call of duty world at war came out, people continued playing call of duty 
 4 and refused to play the new one. When i say addictive i am mainly talking about the amazing call 
 of duty 4 multiplayer..... Play all day and you will never get bored!!!! I'm serious... There are 
 also the greatest modes in this game. Zombie, sniper, promod.... I mean you CAN'T get bored!!! Buy 
 this game and you will never regret it. That's all.!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HeadrockBeats
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 14, 2009 5:29 pm PT
Review:  When developers set out to create a first-person shooter, they certainly don't have people like 
 me in mind - un-twitchy and generally not seeking violence for the sake of passing time. More often, 
 customers are expected to release pent-up anger and unspent calories on the game, just as long 
 as it remains at the cutting-edge of graphics, and to forget about it by the time the company's 
 next shooter is released. But once in a while a developer will make a shooter that actually holds 
 its own, not through sheer violence or brilliant graphics, but rather through all those other bits 
 that are usually considered by publishers to be "excess baggage", but in fact are what makes a 
 game classic.
  
  Call of Duty 4 manages to do what few other shooters have done in the past - it creates a very 
 simple story and breathes life into it, making the action sequences (which make up the bulk of 
 the game, obviously) a delivery method for the story, not the other way around. Naturally, the 
 sheer beauty of the game and the mechanics of warfare here are extremely helpful, but without the 
 well-balanced composition, this would have been just another shooter, which it certainly isn't.
 
  
  LET'S DO IT MODERN-STYLE, BABY
  
  The story of Call of Duty 4 revolves around the acquisition and application of nuclear power by 
 terrorist groups. The player, taking several different roles during the campaign, will follow the 
 events as they unfold into revolution, invasion, and even detonation of nuclear weapons. The story 
 even jumps back a couple of decades at one point, allowing you to play an "expositionary" mission 
 into the background of some of the principal characters. And while you do switch into perhaps 4 
 different characters during the game, the overarching storyline is uninterrupted - it feels as 
 though you're watching a movie more than playing a game, even though you're actively participating 
 at every turn. That's a very, VERY good thing, which very rarely happens in first-person-shooters 
 at all.
  
  Call of Duty 4 is a game about modern warfare (duh! :) ) , and as such it showcases a very wide 
 spectrum of infantry roles, weaponry, and even the different kinds of support that infantry receive 
 on the battlefield. There are more than a few missions where some kind of vehicle will arrive to 
 lend a hand (or needs protection!) , and even missions where you yourself play as a gunner on a 
 support vehicle - such as the classic Gunship mission where you are whisked away into the seat 
 of the gunner control station onboard an aircraft, and need to clear a path for the character that 
 you were playing in the previous mission. Action on the ground is also rarely boring in terms of 
 the shooting mechanics, as you will have to become accustomed to many different kinds of infantry 
 weapons, from small and quick SMGs, to huge anti-material sniper rifles, high-tech anti-tank launchers, 
 and even AA missiles. The different small-arms also behave very differently from one another, making 
 weapon choice a strong component of your combat aptitude - you'll want to take a closer look at 
 fallen enemies to see if they dropped the right weapon for the job. As you're only capable of carrying 
 two weapons at a time, the choice can become really engrossing, and you could die trying several 
 times before you find the right combination for you.
  
  Call of Duty is a squad-based game, where you will almost never find yourself alone. You are often 
 surrounded by teammates who will lay down support fire and may help take the heat for you when 
 you're in a jam. However, they don't serve as a very good meat shield, because the game is geared 
 towards being able to take the initiative and advance under fire. At most points in every mission, 
 you will need to advance aggressively, otherwise enemies will never stop coming. While your team 
 does follow you around, and sometimes advance ahead, you will need to do much of the work yourself 
 if you don't want to get flanked and swamped by the enemy. Therefore, your mates serve as your 
 eyes and ears - they'll call out enemy positions, they'll help take the pressure off you, but don't 
 count on them to play the game for you. I think Infinity Ward found a great balance here between 
 having a large team to help you and not letting them do all the work.
  
  A SPIT IN THE EYE OF CONSOLE-ONLY SHOOTERS?
  
  Call of Duty is perhaps one of the first shooters 
 I've seen which can't really be said to be either a console game or a PC game. Categorization doesn't 
 work here because you can't really see the seams as you would in a poor console-to-PC transition 
 (or the other way around) . The controls are fairly simple, yet they still provide everything you 
 need. The combat system is simplified so that getting shot is a temporary setback - your screen 
 will become blurry and reddened, but if you can avoid getting shot again for a few more seconds, 
 everything will come back to normal. If you get shot repeatedly, you'll die and go back to the 
 last checkpoint. While this is unrealistic, it makes the game very playable considering the amount 
 of fire poured between you and your enemies during each engagement. And the hardcore players can 
 easily shift the difficulty level up (there are 4 levels) to improve realism. Still, given the 
 intensity of combat in this game, even a "hide for health" system feels like good balance.
  
  REAL SCENERY MAKES FOR REAL IMMERSION
  
  Which only leaves graphics and audio. Normally 
 I would say that mindblowing graphics are a good indicator that a game is vacuous, but in Call 
 of Duty 4 the amazing graphics are just the icing on the cake, not the cake itself. And they are 
 yummy icing - they are spectacular to behold, and some of the cutscenes (including the very first 
 moments of the game) can induce great immersion within moments. It doesn't stop with effects either 
 - some of the battlefields are so beautifully designed that it makes you cry (on par with the aging 
 Ghost Recon scenarios) , including but not limited to the portrayal of the deserted town of Prypiat 
 near Chernobyl, large parts of which were copied almost precisely into the game. And surprisingly, 
 the same can be said for audio - gunfire and explosions, for instance, can cause a distinct ringing 
 in your ears that is very similar to the real effect of loud noises on a battlefield. This is especially 
 surprising the first time you stand too close to a tank while it is firing - the blast can render 
 you deaf for a few seconds, and the unique ringing noise is masterfully translated into the game. 
 Oh, and the musical score? Totally Inspiring. You'll remember the theme music for a long while 
 after you're done playing - something most "generic" shooters fail to do.
  
  
  
  So the reason I've voted 9.5 for Call of Duty 4 isn't about combat mechanics or graphics or even 
 a good storyline - it's about the combination of all of these different aspects of the game into 
 a single package that is wonderfully seamless. Each and every mission combines all of those aspects 
 into a fluid and fleshed-out scenario that is fun to play over and over again. As a person who 
 greatly dislikes the overwhelming slew of utterly boring first-person-shooters, I found myself 
 replaying CoD4 over and over again, and probably will for many years to come. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Crookin_Insane
Rating: 7.5
Date: Feb 3, 2009 3:29 am PT
Review:  Call Of Duty 4: Modern Warfare should probably be a refreshing change to the normal Call Of Duty 
 game, because of the change from WWII to Modern Warfare, which is clear from the name. I don't 
 really see it as refreshing. 
  
  Call Of Duty has always been a great game about WWII and has always been above all the other WWII 
 games. Modern Warfare game are fairly common and they don't all differ from each other.
  
  Story wise CoD4 follows the same storyline as most Modern Warfare games. Your up against terrorist. 
 Though the story is different, it isn't different enough to deserve any prize for its story. The 
 point of view changes from character to character, which is always good if done at the right moments, 
 which it is. 
  
  The graphics in CoD4 are really good. The lighting in some scenes is really nice to look at. 
 
  
  CoD4 being a FPS means it won't be to different from other FPS in many ways. While it does present 
 them well enough so they don't get boring. Though it has lots of positives for how well its gameplay 
 is presented it has an annoying aspect that can be annoying, since the enemies are constantly respawning. 
 This may sound good to some but it can be rather annoying if you are trying to clear a way through.
 
  
  If you like either the CoD series or Modern Warfare you will probably like CoD4. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 032465499
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 3, 2009 1:00 am PT
Review:  active vision has outdone itself with this new thrilling game. next to thrilling, the intensive 
 gore and awesome graphics proves that this game is truly the best. this game also provides you with 
 a big selection of weapons, from pistols, to rifles, to machine guns. in addition, the multiplayer mode 
 will provide you, also, an acceptable selection of grounds or levels. moreover, you can use: flash, smoke, or 
 even stun grenades, you can also use a b7 and even have abilities like dropping a grenade while 
 getting killed or use a last stand pistol. of all war games and call of duty series, this game is 
 truly very unique. this game tops any game. adding to all of that, its controls are not that much 
 complicated. this game also allows you to even use attachments to your weapons like a scope or grip. this 
 game truly deserves a 10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: goreaffection_i
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 30, 2009 6:18 am PT
Review:  Many of us COD fans have been wondering, what would Call of Duty feel like in the modern era setting. 
 Well here's the answer. Call of Duty Modern Warfare not just only lives up to its name, it is the 
 best in the series. 
  Classic games are those which has a great storyline, and also excellent game play. COD 4 scores 
 in both of these departments. This game is one of those rare ones which, while having state of 
 the art graphics, isnt a power hungry game. You really dont need dual core processors, with dual 
 graphics cards for this game. AI in the game is not that great, which doesnt really matter because 
 the game is so fast and your enemy is so many, that most of the time you will be ducking behind 
 cover other than seeing what the enemy is doing. But what really is the excellent part of this 
 game is its multiplayer. Singleplayer experience might be over within a span of 12 hours, but the 
 multiplayer experience will go on and on and on. The rank and perks system in this game gives you 
 a reason to keep playing it until you reach the highest rank, and even then there is no end to 
 it.
  I could really go on and on about this game, but all i can say is that if you havent yet played 
 this game, you are missing something in your life. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AshBrahh
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 29, 2009 11:37 pm PT
Review:  This is my first review, so I decided to do it on my favorite game of all time, Call of Duty 4: 
 Modern Warfare.
  
  "Gaz: Good news first: The world's in great shape. We've got a civil war in Russia, government 
 loyalists against ultranationalist rebels, & 15 000 nukes at stake.
  
  Price: Just another day at the office..
  
  Gaz: Khaled Al Asad, currently the second most powerful 
 man in the Middle East. Now word on the street is that he's got the minerals to be top dog down 
 there. Intel's keeping an eye on him.
  
  Price: And the bad news?
  
  Gaz: We've got a new guy joining us today. Fresh out of Selection. His name's Soap..."
  
  From 
 hearing the first few lines of the game, you know you're in for one hell of a ride.
  
  Infinity Ward's Call of Duty 4 is a true masterpiece. The thrilling campaign will keep you on the 
 edge of your seat, while the diverse multiplayer features will keep you playing for a long time.
 
  
  COD4's campaign has the best storyline I have ever played. No, I'm not exaggerating, it is truly 
 a work of art. One of the main things that made me enjoy the campaign so much was this; the lack 
 of aliens, mutants & other fictional foes. Many of the most successful games released to date including 
 the Half-Life Series, Crysis Series, Halo Series & more have had these beings integrated into their 
 storylines. This is what sets COD4 apart, it features realistic war & stealth situations, without 
 the slightest hint of an extra-terrestrial. Don't get me wrong, aliens & mutants are awesome, but 
 I find that have become common among games & I am finding it overused. Infinity Ward have managed 
 to create a best-selling storyline without any of this.
  
  As you step into the British Special Air Service's "new guy", Soap MacTavish (you'll be using him 
 for most of the game) , you're in for a real treat. The game has a wonderful script & voice acting 
 already demonstrated during the first scene. The tutorial is well made, making it seem more of 
 a "tryout" instead of just text on the screen telling you what to do. It even suggests a difficulty 
 depending on how well you do. When you meet the rest of your squad (especially Gaz & Captain Price) , 
 don't expect lame stereotypical characters. Every character has his own individual personality, 
 & the voice acting really enforces that.
  While Soap & the rest of the 22nd S. A. S. are transported on to their next starboard mission, you 
 will play as Sergeant Paul Jackson of the United States Marine Corps 1st Force Recon. Jackson is 
 also accompanied by ingenious characters, one being my personal favorite; Sergeant Griggs.
  The game shifts continually between the S. A. S. with Soap, & the U. S. M. C. with Jackson, filling 
 in the two colliding storylines along the way.
  
  The multiplayer feature of the game is truly magnificent, despite the game sometimes not registering 
 shots. 
  Weapons can be given up to 3 different "perks", which allow you to access or enhance different 
 features that can aid you in combat. A few examples are the infamous "Martyrdom", which automatically 
 drops a live grenade upon death, "Deep Impact", which increases bullet damage or "Iron Lungs", 
 which allows you to hold your breath for longer while sniping, allowing more accurate shots. 
 
  Attachments are also another feature added that can allow you to further customize your weapons. 
 Things like Red Dot Sights, ACOG Scopes or Silencers can be added. Different attachments allow 
 for different abilities, examples include the silencer which stops you from being seen on the radar 
 or the red dot sight which replaces the default iron sight, & allows increased accuracy. 
  Challenges are included, which are assigned to each individual weapon. Challenges are a good way 
 to test your skill, from the basic "Boot Camp" challenges, which ask you to do simple things like 
 blow up a car or kill someone while crouching. And the individual weapon challenges, which ask 
 you to get things like a certain number of headshots with a weapon. Upon completing challenges, 
 you are rewarded with some experience. Different camouflage & attachments are given in the case 
 of an individual weapon challenge completed. The game also features a ranking or level-up system, 
 which is increased by playing & killing other people for experience. As you increase in level, 
 you unlock different weapons, perks, attachments & challenges.
  
  The levels, or missions in military terms, are exciting & very realistic. You & your squad will 
 work seamlessly together, ensuring that you push further into the game. They take place in wonderful 
 environments, & make you wish that the game will never end. Though the campaign only takes 6 hours 
 on Normal difficulty, it is thrilling & engaging, always drawing you too play more. The graphics 
 are splendid, as demonstrated in each different environment you encounter such as the deserted 
 city of Prypiat, Ukraine or the cargo ship floating among the Bering Sea. The audio very realistic, 
 from a grenade making contact to the ground to tanks blowing up as you fire a Javelin at it. As 
 implied before, the gameplay is remarkable. The AI intelligence fits in well with the game, & weapon 
 recoil & accuracy varies from different firearms, much like real life. The Heads-Up Display is 
 brilliant & laid out so that you are not distracted but you can check on your status without hassle. 
 In my opinion, the multiplayer can not be beat, generously allowing over 30 people on a single 
 server.
  I highly recommend this game to any hardcore FPS fan & any gamer in general. Infinity Ward have 
 truly outdone themselves with this one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: VENOM192
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 29, 2009 9:06 pm PT
Review:  Call of Duty: Modern Warfare is one of the most successful Call of Duty's out there, why? Because 
 it's the winner of 40+ E3 awards: 
  Best of Show  G4
  Best Action Game  Game Critics Awards
  Best Shooter and Best Graphics  Gamespot and IGN. com
 
  
  And there is a lot more than just that but it's going to take a while to mention it all! The thing 
 that stunned me the most in Call of Duty 4 is the amazing story and the great multiplayer, where 
 you can customize your weapons to your approval and the gameplay makes you feel like the soldier 
 taking down tanks, shooting helicopter's, placing C4's and fighting for your life. In the story 
 you'll fight on two sides: U. S. forces and S. A. S. to stop a well armed international force of separatist's 
 and it gets better you'll get to use weapons like: MP50, G3, AK47, Stinger's and RPG's! And that's 
 only single player in multiplayer you can call in airstrikes and attack helicopters to dominate 
 your opponents!
  
  Have fun gaming.
  Venom192
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: squirt871
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 28, 2009 12:48 pm PT
Review:  They say war is hell. Infinity Ward's Call of Duty 4: Modern Warfare takes you to the very depths 
 of Hades. The long-awaited COD4, IW's follow-up to the excellent Call of Duty 2, is a jarring, 
 intense, and gripping take on war in the new millennia. The enemies are smarter, the weapons are 
 deadlier, and the grenades all too plentiful. COD4 will shake loose your fillings and have you 
 begging for more.
  
  Infinity Ward was born out of the success of retelling some of the greatest battles in World War 
 II. The company has become synonymous with the virtual beach at Normandy. So it was quite a gamble 
 to break from the comfort zone of Nazi-occupied Europe and leap into present day. The gamble paid 
 off. Ghost Recon, Rainbow Six, and every other military-based shooter has been put on notice. There 
 is a new standard to judge this sub-genre and it is Call of Duty 
::::::

::::::
UserName: doomsdaydave11
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 28, 2009 4:35 pm PT
Review:  Call of Duty 4 has been hyped for ages, and is still one of the top multiplayer games right now, 
 over a year later. Everyone seems to love this game... and for a while, I did too, but it really 
 got old fast.
  The CoD series is one of the few that I credit with "raising the bar" and "setting the standard 
 for future games". Call of Duty 2 (for me) really represented what a refined World War II shooter 
 should look like. It had a fun, fairly lengthy campaign, top notch visuals, great sound, and most 
 importantly for many people... terrific multiplayer. Call of Duty 4 clearly tries to build on CoD2's 
 success, and takes it a few steps further.
  CoD4 definitely tries to increase the replayability of the the mp part of it. The new class system 
 is really cool, and the fact that you get to customize your own weapons and choose perks really 
 gives it that personal touch, and helps it conform to your style of play. It has more then enough 
 maps (as of the 1.6 patch) , and the great modes of CoD2 and more. The problems I have are:
  1. Hardcore mode. Apparentally, in this mode, 2 shots from an M9 pistol can kill you from any range. 
 Not only that, but pistols in general are 100% accurate and lethal at all ranges. If you could 
 put a sniper scope on a pistol, that's the only weapon I would ever use. These super lethal pistols 
 also don't make sense because any Marine, SAS soldier, Spetsnaz soldier, or terrorist is going 
 to be wearing kevlar. Kevlar will easily stop M9, USP, and M1911 pistol bullets. The action on 
 the Desert Eagle is also far to fast. You can pump 7 rounds down range faster and more accurately 
 then the AK-47 can (and they're more lethal) . This is not the case in regular mode, fortunately.
 
  2. Any weapon in hardcore mode is lethal within 1-2 shots, really, meaning that there's no point 
 to using a powerful bolt action sniper, when you can just mount an ACOG scope on a Skorpion machine 
 pistol... and the ACOG scope magically increases the weapon's range, making it still lethal at 
 long ranges. I guess no one wears kevlar these days.
  3. Reiterating what I've already stated somewhat, the game in general is unfair to the sniper type 
 of players. The bolt action snipers that I've come to love from Call of Duty 2 and Counter-Strike 
 are now worthless. an R700 now apparently has significantly more recoil compared to a M21 sniper... 
 even though the M21 is semi-automatic. In hardcore mode, you'd have to be crazy to use a bolt sniper, 
 as M21's are far more accurate, not as loud, and just as lethal.
  4. Helicopters and Air Strike. Just plain trash. There's nothing like getting your entire team 
 wiped out by a spawn killing air strike in SD, or being constantly harassed by a helicopter.
  5. Random grenades. Similar to my CoD2 gripe, grenades are plentiful and when thrown randomly over 
 a building can have devastating results. Just chuck a frag in the general direction of the enemy, 
 and you're sure to get a kill.
  6. Last Stand and Martydom. Last Stand allows you to, after you "die", drop down to the ground 
 and continue to fight with just a pistol. And, as stated before, this yields amazing results, as 
 pistols are incredible in this game. Martydom allows you to drop a live grenade (with a shortened 
 fuse) after you die. As you might guess, this is ridiculously frustrating when playing deathmatch 
 or the like.
  7. This greatly frustrates me: The MP5 sounds like a weak AK-47 in first person, but like an M4 
 when you're not the one firing it. All of the weapon sounds in this game a less then great, and 
 sound very different when you're not the one firing it.
  
  It's too bad the SP campaign is really short... all of the material there is very good.
  Everything 
 Infinity Ward needs to make a good game is there, it's just not put together correctly. Don't get 
 me wrong- the graphics are great, and run fantastic on my PC (maxed at 1680x1050 4xAA... ~80-100FPS) , 
 and the sound effects are very good as well, but the overall multiplayer experience is less then 
 fun.
  
  That said, most people are the type that love to run and gun with a submachine gun and chuck grenades 
 everywhere... and there is nothing wrong with that. If you are like that, then you will certainly 
 think this game is top notch. If you are the tactical player like myself, then I can see you maybe 
 not liking this game.
  
  Read other reviews before you decide whether this game is right for you... just don't go into it 
 thinking "tactical shooter" like I did. Good luck. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nhl_guy11
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 26, 2009 11:31 am PT
Review:  Well I played this in university over the Lan. War games are always fun for this because you can 
 take sides, play together and find your way of playing. It is quite nice for large multiplier games. 
 I have 5.1 audio which is a lot of fun when set up correctly, and the graphics are good enough 
 so they can run on any system, but still fulfill many. The different classes you can play as is 
 nice, everyone you play with seems to find their touch in one class or another. the levels on multiplayer 
 have a large range. From small levels to big levels they seem to have them all. I enjoy good first 
 person shooters and that is pretty much what this game is. I would recommend this game and this 
 series. I have spent alot of time playing them, and really can not wait for the next title in the 
 series to come out with the higher graphics and updated perks. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MartinSkywalker
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 24, 2009 8:06 pm PT
Review:  Call of duty 4 modern warfare I believe that it is the best in the call of duty series because 
 of the storyline and that it is modern. Call of duty 1,2 and 3 are also pretty good but call of 
 duty 4 is so far the most interesting. In the game you play as a soldier from the UNSC marines 
 named sgt. Paul Jackson and in you play as a person from SAS they are undercover people that work 
 withe the good Russains. In the gameplay you face an army of Russain terrorists that start the 
 war. This game as a unique storyline because its not all real and its very different than the other 
 call of duty's in the series. All of the call of duty's 1,2,3 & 5 are all based on the ww1 & 2 
 wars, so those storylines are all based on the world wars. The online on call of duty 4 is very 
 fun, with all of its unique different types of matches you can have , like teamdeath match, or 
 free-for-all and others too. The online is fun on ethier for the pc, xbox 360 and the ps3 all of 
 these system work excellent for live play. Overall this game is very good and I recomend this game 
 to all of those gamers that enjoy a good shooter game.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Xpogi
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 18, 2009 6:50 pm PT
Review:  This is a great game, though the story campaign is short, the multiplayer mode is great, and is 
 highly addictive, it's one of the best multiplayer games I have played so far, and it's really 
 not hard to see why. Also, there's the arcade mode gives a great challenge for the campaign missions. 
 And also considering this is a cross platform game, the graphics is great, the guns and environments 
 are nice and detailed, and don't worry about the sound, the sound effects are great and really 
 engages you into the game. I would recommend this to anyone who likes a great modern fps. It's 
 really a great value, it's really entertaining and it never gets boring, considering I got this 
 game a long time ago. So if your wondering if you want to buy this game if you don't have yet, 
 buy it, you won't regret the hours of entertainment and fun! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gand190
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 15, 2009 6:18 pm PT
Review:  This game rocks when you play it you just cant stop. I have had it since it came out. Am i bored? 
 . Heck no. This game is intense and is everlasting the multiplayer has an amazeing selection of 
 weapons and modifications you can put on the. Maybe i want and M4 carbine i think i want it with 
 an acog hey maybe a red dot sight. its endless this game is a 10.0 out of 10.0 . Dont wait. Just 
 get it. You have to get it no matter how many times you play it. It never gets boreing. Wide selections 
 of pistols aswell as guns such as the desert eagle the masterful M4 carbine oh and lets not forget 
 those must have flash bangs and smoke grenades. And a wide variety of maps is included such as 
 the must play "Broadcast" a personal favorite. Snipers are great you can get the M21 or the fearsom 
 Barret 50 cal. And as a sniper you get a awesome camo suit if you lay down in the grass a enemy 
 can walk right past you and he wont notice it. And lets not forget heli's. Get a 3 kill streak 
 for a radar, 5 kill streak for an Airstrike, and 7 kills for a heli. But beware of the enemys RPG's 
 (Rocket Propelled Grenades) . Well and the normal grenades of course cant forget those frags. Better 
 let go of that thing in 5 seconds or . Well i think you know what happens next. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Absinthe-abuser
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 8, 2009 10:57 am PT
Review:  You like wide open Levels? Great Physics? Think, before start shooting? Then dont get this one...
 
  
  Actually this Game feels like there is no need of a Player... You have no decisions to make, nothing 
 to think about. Walk the predefined Path, hit a Trigger, shoot at anything. 
  
  Any Tactical equipment you got is useless.
  Of course u ve got Stun- or Smoke-Grenades but they 
 dont really have an Effect at all... All u have to use is your Left Mouse-button and the R key 
 for reloading. 
  Enemys spawn almost infinite (i dont get how about 300 Terrorists can come out of one small Hut) 
 
  
  The Graphics are good but not as great as Crysis for example. Realtime-shadows? Just from Models 
 and with large Pixels. Texture-Resolution is weak with only some Normal-maps or Speculars on it. 
 Maybe cause its a Cross-platform title...
  Sprites and Bitmaps in the Background... (Good to see on the Levels before the Bomb blows)
  Of 
 course you can play this with a 3 Year Old PC on good Performance.
  
  The Story can be described in one Sentence. 
  "Some Terrorists got a A-Bomb, so stop them"
 
  
  So, this Game was getting me on a Chain, and pulled me through the Levels... only 7.0 for me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Templar_Bladema
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 12, 2009 7:33 pm PT
Review:  When I first heard Infinity Ward was back on the scene with Call of Duty 4, I was in a near shock, 
 but then I had a heart attack (not really) when I heard the game would ditch the cliche WWII setting 
 for a Modern Day Cold War turned Hot. The single player plot is you play in the shoes of many people, 
 like all the others, but mainly in the shoes of SAS agent Soap (yeah, I thought the name was wierd 
 too) and USMC Jackson (I think that is the name, I didn't take notice) . Without ruining too much, 
 basically a coup happens in a third world country, and you gotta go in and kick some ass. The game 
 is short in terms of singleplayer, but it shows that the good guys do not always get out unscathed. 
 It was like a movie in its presentation, and even the loading times were entertaining with the 
 briefing. The levels feel like full on wars, with enemies coming from all directions and swarming 
 on whatever squad you are with at the time. My personal favorite mission, once again without trying 
 to ruin too much, is the flashback to Chernobyl. When you go through the school and play yard, 
 there is an eerie music and you can distinctly hear the laughter of children, which was atmospheric.
 
  Outside of the single-player, which includes a bonus mission after the game and an arcade mode 
 similar to Halo 3's, there is the perfect multi-player mode. It is so balanced that a newb can 
 take on an expert and have as much of a chance as the next guy. It uses an RPG system where you 
 make your own character, which you can do at Rank 4 or 5. The possibilities are endless and more 
 get unlocked at later ranks. You can make five of your own classes, which include a primary weapon, 
 secondary weapon, special grenade, three perks, and attachments for weapons, skins, and class name. 
 So much depth gets even better with Challenges, which functions like achievements, but with rewards 
 like XP, more attachements for weapons, and more skins for weapons. The balancing includes thousands 
 of spawn points per map, but you end up spawning at the other end of the map from where the enemy 
 spawns, or you spawn near your teammates. There are almost no camper spots, and the ones that exist 
 has penetrable cover, so good luck camping. Basically a fun game.
  
  Replayability: A
  Graphics: A- (Smoke seems a little cartoonish)
  Sound: A+ (Every gun has a realistic and loud 
 "POP!!!" with every bullet fired, better than most muted gun sounds in most games)
  Gameplay: A
  Multiplayer: A+ (Perfect in almost every way)
  Overall: A (If only the singleplayer 
 was longer) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ohado
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 30, 2009 11:09 am PT
Review:  The best game I ever seen!
  just the sound isn't so good
  good game! great game!
  good game! great game! good game! great game! good game! great game! good game! great game! good game! 
 great game! good game! great game! good game! great game! good game! great game! good game! great game! good 
 game! great game! good game! great game! good game! great game! good game! great game! good game! great 
 game! good game! great game! good game! great game! good game! great game! good game! great game! good 
 game! great game! good game! great game! good game! great game! good game! great game! good game! great 
 game! good game! great game! good game! great game! good game! great game! good game! great game! good 
 game! great game! good game! great game! good game! great game! good game! great game! good game! great 
 game! good game! great game! good game! great game! good game! great game! good game! great game! good 
 game! great game! good game! great game! good game! great game! good game! great game! good game! great 
 game! good game! great game! good game! great game! good game! great game! good game! great game! good 
 game! great game! good game! great game! good game! great game! good game! great game! good game! great 
 game! good game! great game! good game! great game! good game! great game! good game! great game! good 
 game! great game! good game! great game! good game! great game! good game! great game! good game! great 
 game! good game! great game! v
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: pc_gamer_4_life
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 10, 2009 9:43 am PT
Review:  now as almost everyone who has played a ww2 game knows how boring ur 3rd or 4th ww2 game can be, eventhough 
 theyre all different in their own ways.
  well the makers of the Call of Duty series wisely put a end to this problem by making this superb 
 game and also got some awards and a huge bag of money for it.
  
  but what i dont understand is why they made yet ANOUTHER WW2 GAME?
  i have WaW too and it is 
 a pretty good game but cod4 has better guns and looks better too. i know i know its hard coming 
 up with new stuff but going back to where u started isnt the smartest thing to do.
  
  now if u are thinking about getting CoD modern warfare, than let me asure u that u probably wont 
 be disapointed. the game has a short but very good single player and a awsome multi player so if 
 u are planing on getting this game only for its single player version than maybe u should borrow 
 it from someone. if ur getting this game because of the multi player version or all of the above 
 than get it and i swear to god u will have a great time playing this game.^^
  
  oh, P. S: i had some problems with starting the multi player at first because i have a realtek soundcard 
 and i had to turn something on that was off so if u cant play the multi player version at first 
 than just go to www. activision. com/support and look for call of duty modern warfare and so on.
 
  
  also excuse me, for my poor spelling abilities, i havent been in the US for about 8 years and i was 
 7 when we came to germany. DO THE MATH xD. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PerkinsGamerFTW
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 6, 2009 3:35 pm PT
Review:  Call of Duty 4: Modern Warfare was highly welcomed by fans after it being about a year since the 
 release of the last Call of Duty, Call of Duty 3, which wasn't that good anyway. Call fo Duty 4 
 brings some fresh air into the series with being the first and currently, only game thats not World 
 War II. (Modern Warfare 2 has been announced to be coming out Fall 2009)
  
  It is unlike any previous Call of Duty with an expanded multiplayer, awesome graphics and the addition 
 of a modern plot. Even though it has a short singleplayer, it has enough drama, suspense and interesting 
 story to make up for it. The plot is that a Ultranationalist named Zakhaev forms a rebelious force 
 to restore the Soviet movement in the Russian Federation. He is supported by the Arab Revolutionist 
 movement headed by Khalid al-Assad. When a nuclear bomb goes of in the capital city of the revolution, 
 the movement is destroyed, making all of the Coalitions attention point towards the Ultrantionalist 
 which until then apparently, only the British and the Russian Loyalists have been fighting. After 
 a joint operations team disables two nuclear warheads heading for the east coast of the United 
 States, they are immobilized on a bridge. All seems lost when a Loyalist Havoc Attack Helicopter 
 opens fire on the Ultrantionalists. Price slides you a pistol and you kill Zakhaev ending the week 
 long war. It is most likely Price dies, I went in on the Russian that was trying to revive Price 
 with the cheat code 'noclip'... he stopped.
  
  The singleplayer is filled with suspense and thrilling moments. The multiplayer takes a long time 
 and keeps the fun going. On PC, the ranks end at lvl 55. On the consoles however, you can priesteige 
 and kee it going, but it re-sets your weapons unlocked and the challenges you already did. There 
 are numerous challenges, from the weapon type challenges to the Operation, Boot Camp, Elite, Killer 
 and others. If you get all of the challenges for one specific weapon type, you get golden camouflage 
 for one of them. You get 6 camo choices (not including gold) depending on if you completed the 
 veteran challenges for that weapon. You also get attachables for completing the marksman challenges. 
 Perks assist you in unique ways and can fit your style of fighting. 
  
  I give this game a 9.5 for superb multiplayer, great storyline, awesome weapons, but the -.5 is 
 for the short singleplayer. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: dakkenly
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 5, 2009 4:54 pm PT
Review:  Call of duty 4: Modern Warfare puts you into a modern warfare situation. With stunning graphics 
 and engaging multiplayer, this is sure to get your heart racing.
  
  Graphics:10/10
  I'm pretty sure these graphics are about the best around for a game, let alone an FPS.
  
  Gameplay:8/10
 
  The gameplay really gets you going, running around Rambo style killing everyone (Including yourself) 
 or sneakily laying down shots while nobody knows where you are. This is a very real game, with 
 real military things such as perks, letting you create a class and get awesome weapons, not letting 
 the noobs just run in with a super gun. You gotta work for it.
  
  Sound:10/10
  All the sounds in this game add just so much to the gameplay. Without sound, you pretty much can't 
 play and it will make your gameplay experience dull. With realistic sounds from guns, aircraft, 
 and explosions, you are sure to turn up the volume.
  
  Overall:10/10
  Being the best Call of Duty in the series, and probably the best FPS out there, this is a must 
 have if you like any FPS games. Play through the story on a low difficulty, then again on higher, 
 and you're ready to kick some multi-butt! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Domac12345
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 5, 2009 9:54 am PT
Review:  wow wow wow wow wow wow wow wow wow wow wow wow wow wow wow wowwow wow wow wow wow wow wow wow 
 wow wow wow wow wow wow wow wow wow wow wow wow wow wow wow wow wow wow wow wow wow wow wow wow 
 wow wow wow wow wow wow wow wow wow wow wow wow wow wow wow wow wow wow wow wow wow wow wow wow 
 wow wow wow wow wow wow wow wow wow wow wow wow wow wow wow wow wow wow wow wow wow wow wow wow 
 wow wow wow wow wow wow wow wow wow wow wow wow wow wow wow wow wow wow wow wow wow wow wow wow 
 wow. wow wow wow wow wow wow wow wow wow wow wow wow wow wow wow wowwow wow wow wow wow wow wow 
 wow wow wow wow wow wow wow wow wow wow wow wow wow wow wow wow wow wow wow wow wow wow wow wow 
 wow wow wow wow wow wow wow wow wow wow wow wow wow wow wow wow wow wow wow wow wow wow wow wow 
 wow wow wow wow wow wow wow wow wow wow wow wow wow wow wow wow wow wow wow wow wow wow wow wow 
 wow wow wow wow wow wow wow wow wow wow wow wow wow wow wow wow wow wow wow wow wow wow wow wow 
 wow wow wow wow wow wow wow wow wow wow wow wow wow wow wow wow wowwow wow wow wow wow wow wow 
 wow wow wow wow wow wow wow wow wow wow wow wow wow wow wow wow wow wow wow wow wow wow wow wow 
 wow wow wow wow wow wow wow wow wow wow wow wow wow wow wow wow wow wow wow wow wow wow wow wow 
 wow wow wow wow wow wow wow wow wow wow wow wow wow wow wow wow wow wow wow wow wow wow wow wow 
 wow wow wow wow wow wow wow wow wow wow wow wow wow wow wow wow wow wow wow wow wow wow wow wow 
 wow 
::::::

::::::
UserName: toastisgood
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 16, 2009 4:24 pm PT
Review:  When I first got Call Of Duty 4: Modern Warfare I was expecting a pretty good game. I had already 
 played the first three call of duty games plus one expansion pack, and when I started playing it, 
 I wasn't dissapointed.
  
  Gameplay:9/10
  The controls are easy to figure out, the single player campaign is pretty short, but there's plenty 
 to do online. But you don't get much from vehicles though
  Graphics:9.0/10
  The graphice are for sure some of the best for the time it came out. No doubt. From the explosions 
 to the guns to the buildings, its all good. except for some of the multiplayer maps.
  Replay Value:10/10
  With all of the multiplayer acheivements and guns to unlock, you'll be playing 
 this for A LONG time. Plus you can do arcade mode, and play single player on different difficulties.
 
  Multiplayer:9.5/10
  This game has some of the best multiplayer options I've seen in a game. With all of the acheivments, guns, perks, etc. 
 it will take quite a while to get bored with call of duty 4's multiplayer. But once again, you really 
 don't get much in terms of vehicles.
  Score:9.5
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: The_Last_Ride
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 3, 2009 9:01 am PT
Review:  It has really good graphics which i think is rather rare in shooting games theses days. The last 
 time i had this much fun playing a fps game was when the first battlefield games come out. So i 
 definetely recomend this game on the highest level for those who enjoy modern based fps games. 
 The game allows you to create classes to manage how you want with different weapons and perks which 
 you can choose from as you go the ranks in the multiplayer gamemode. In these classes you can choose 
 everything from Shotguns, Light Machine guns, Sub machine guns, Assault rifles and off course snipers. 
 There aren't many maps to choose from, but many of them are enjoyable and you can learn to like 
 it and use the battlefield as best as you can. This is about all i can say. and if you are wondering 
 i am again recomending this on the highest level. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Pengu-X
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 2, 2009 4:22 am PT
Review:  Call of Duty 4 is one of the best games to come out in these past years with its short but sweet 
 single player and highly addictive multiplayer.
  
  The game's campaign is probably one of the best singleplayer experiences in the Call of Duty series. 
 You play as S. A. S. and a U. S. Marine and eventually team up in a joint operation in order to save 
 the world from disaster.
  
  The online is the best multiplayer experience you can get from the series. The unlockable perks 
 and weapons makes it even more enjoyable.
  
  The only con to me was that the campaign was too short and the online can eventually get boring 
 because fragging is very easy, but despite that, COD 4 is definately worth the money and the graphics 
 are great too, especially in singleplayer. So if you want to have a good time then go buy it right 
 now if you havent :D 
::::::

::::::
UserName: colbertnation1
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 1, 2009 7:09 pm PT
Review:  This is a great game if your a casual or hard core gamer, it works for just about anyone into shooters. 
 You can sit down and play for 30 minutes and be done with a map or switch over to a quick multiplayer 
 match after lunch.
  
  The graphics in the game are excellent, although not as stunning as Crysis it will still give your 
 system a good workout.
  
  The singleplayer is one of the best I have ever played, thats saying something. The storyline is 
 fantastic and it makes you feel like your in a James Bond movie almost.
  From sniping a lead terrorist with a 50 barreta sniper rifle to storming a nuclear missile underground 
 silo bunker to surviving a nuclear blast and raiding a ship full of terrorists. Your the always 
 on your feet, the AI is pretty good and although your bot teammates can sometimes do stupid things 
 you feel like your playing with other players.
  
  The weapon selection in this game is wonderful, tons to choose from.
  
  Multiplayer is even 
 better, has all your standard types such as tdm and dm, ctf and some others I forgot. But the really 
 great thing about multiplayer is the rank system.
  You start as a private and go all the way up to 5 stars, depending on how good you are and if you 
 play often you can get up to 5 star general fairly quickly. With each rank you unlock new weapons 
 and equipment, from an AK47, AR15 or a MP44 to a RPG and desert eagle. You also unlock all the stuff 
 to put on your guns like new finish (why not make your rifle a blue and black camo?) or once you 
 have mastered a complete firearm type you can get a golden finish weapon. Such as a Golden Dragunov 
 rifle.
  Theres also many different grenades and explosives to mess around with. There are also perks you 
 can add to your guy, from Extra speed or bullet penetration to Martyr, thats where you drop a nade 
 when you die to kill the guy who got you.
  
  The great part is you can make your own weapon/perk selection. So when you enter a server, just 
 select which guy you made and you can play as him.
  The multiplayer maps are alot of fun, several are from the singleplayer.
  
  This is a fantastic 
 game and a instant classic. I wish I was still playing it...
  My only problem with the game is they give you night vision goggles but you at not point in sp 
 or MP need them.
  
  Graphics: 8
  Sound:9
  Originality: 8
  Storyline: 10
  Fun: 10
  
  Dont get the demo, get the game. If you enjoy shooters this is your game. If your a first time 
 shooter player, this would be a great game to start on.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ham123468
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 1, 2009 6:49 am PT
Review:  this game is just amazing and so graet. it is better than call of duty 5 because of these reasons 
 such as: GREAT STORY TELLING, GREAT ACTION AND OUTSTANDING WEAPONS AND ENVIROMENT. but still call 
 of duty world at war is a graeter deal than cod4 becouse of its co up action and multiplayer fun. BUT 
 I RECOMEND THAT YOU GET BOTH GAMES BECAUSE COD4 FEEL OF ACTION AND FIGHTING WAYES YOU AND THE OTHER 
 CARACTERS IN THE GAME DOES MAKES IT SO SPECIEL AND OUTSTANDING, WHILE COD5 MAKE YOU GET RIGHT IN 
 THE ACTION AND THE FIGHTING WAYES ARE JUST SCARY AND YOU ARE FIGHTING FOR SAVING YOUR OWN SKIN. WHAT 
 I CAN SAY IS THAT INFINITY WARD did in cod4 is so speciel and great. THE LEVELS ARE FUN AND LONG 
 AND THEY ARE ALOT OF LEVELS IN THIS GAME THAT MAKES IT FEEL ENDLESS. MODEREN WEAPONS ARE FUN TO 
 PLAY SUCH AS NIGHT VISION, GERNADE LAUNCHER, AND SO MANY OTHER GREAT AND MODEREN WEAPONS THAT MAKES 
 IT THE BEST COD GAME EVER 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shadowluv12
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 30, 2008 3:20 pm PT
Review:  This is the BEST fps game ever to be created. No questions asked, period.
  
  The story modes, graphic, gameplay, sound and all the other little things are made to the best 
 of the best and this game is the "Game of the Year"
  
  The guns are well made with great sound and graphic, as well as the lightings, the lighting was 
 very well used especially in night vision mode, it totally rocks!
  
  the story scenes are great and filled with great excitment and full of unexpected outcomes. This 
 game will blown everyone who is a fan of FPS game or just any computer game that's high tech and 
 not Sci-Fi's
  
  I would really recommend this game to everyone! This game is truely the best of the best in FPS 
 gaming. I wound't recommend ppl buying COD 5 because COD 4 is just way BETTER than COD 5. but for 
 ppl who like World War 2 games, then buy COD 5. but keep this in mind, after you played COD 4, 
 and then u play COD 5. You'll think it's kind of boring because the guns are just OLD!!!
  
  Well, Buy Call of Duty 4 Modern Warfare and it'll be the best FPS game you'll ever play!!! ENJOY 
 THE GAME!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: theafiguy
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 29, 2008 2:19 am PT
Review:  Call of Duty 4: Modern Warfare
  
  Note: I do not hate Halo 3 and/or the Halo franchise. I use it simply as a comparison. Thank You.
 
  
  With a slew of WWII shooters still coming out, it was finally time for one of the kingpins of the 
 genre to step out of 1944 and move away from the overused forests of France. Infinity Ward's Call 
 of Duty franchise was the first to catch on to this, and in doing so they came out with one of 
 the best shooters of all time.
  
  The graphics in Call of Duty 4 for the PC are extremely beautiful, especially if you have a PC 
 that can handle the higher-ends of the graphics. Certain settings do not do this game justice, 
 but overall the game absolutely shines. All of the weapons look beautiful in the game. Setting 
 up the game at higher resolutions on smaller screens makes the font too difficult to read however, 
 which can be a problem for some people.
  
  All of the sounds in Call of Duty 4 are done very well also. The guns sound like themselves and 
 I like the fact that the M16A4 and the M4 Carbine do not sound like the master of weapons like 
 in most FPS games. In fact, I believe the most brutal sounding weapon is either the Barrett M82 
 (.50 Cal) or the Desert Eagle. Using said weapons feels easy enough to do, the controls aren't 
 clunky; although I really wish that the melee button wasn't the V button sometimes. 
  
  The single player game is one of the best in the Call of Duty series, but it's also one of the 
 shortest. There were many missions available in the game, but they were also quite short. The lack 
 of quantity is definitely made up the by the quality however, featuring some of the best missions 
 in an FPS game that I have ever seen. Some of the missions near the end of the game are so good 
 that I replayed a few of them about 5-6 times just for the hell of it.
  
  The online multiplayer for COD4 is amazing, even though it's over a year old at this point. You 
 have 5 classes that you unlock, and 5 slots for custom classes. Each custom class has a primary 
 weapon with attachment, secondary with attachment, primary grenade, secondary grenade, and 3 Perk 
 slots. Perks are ability enhancers that help out with whatever play style you are. They are all 
 put together well enough to where no one class feels too powerful or overbearing. Matches are easily 
 found, with 13.5k severs now; but I noticed a major lack in game types other than Team Deathmatch, 
 although lately I have seen a good amount of S&D going around.
  
  Call of Duty 4: Modern Warfare is still an amazing game despite it's age in the modern gaming world. 
 The population is still hitting the millions and there is a server for everybody to play on. So 
 if you have the $35 to get it on Steam while it's still on sale, go do it. It's worth the money. 
 You're practically buying yourself fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: immortalboy1990
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 26, 2008 6:05 pm PT
Review:  When I play this game, I can say it's perfect. This game is the best of the CoD series. The tricks 
 of high-definition. Let's start now.
  You will start the game as a SAS commando who's name is ''Soap'' Mactagget. Everything is start 
 with death of an Arabian politicion. And you must stop the terrorists. You will start a practice 
 to learn this game. Later, you will line up a fake operation and this will state the difficulty 
 of the game.
  Our old friend Captain Price is on our side. An new characters we have (like Gaz)
  Mactagget 
 is English. But you can play an American Navy soldier Sergeant Jackson. With him, you will try to 
 stop Al Assad (terrorists) too.
  The mission is not boring. You will exciting when you play this game. But, single mission is too 
 short. That's a negative for the game.
  Graphics are perfect. I can't find any deformity in game. Physic motor do the best.
  Sound are 
 incredible, too. You can feel the war inside your ear. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Wiifanaticnumbe
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 24, 2008 6:49 am PT
Review:  Call of Duty 4 brings players to warfare with better guns, enemies, and awesome multiplayer! COD4 
 has really great graphics and im running it in very low quality so I don't lag that much in Single 
 Play and online. THe story is very motivational and you play as The S. A. S and the Marines Recon. 
 The story is very short however... Although short, when you play this game on hardened or Veteren 
 levels, you could spend a good 25 minutes just to be in cover and so you don't die. They really 
 put the realism in the game like there is a sniping level where you need a snipe a guy planning 
 on nuking a country. When taking the shot you need to consider on The direction of the wind, the 
 corriolis effect (The opposit wind rotation of the earth) and people who get in the way of the 
 shot. I'm talking about Helicopters, body gaurds, and just walking henchmen. What's cool is that 
 they made the game kinda like a movie, like after you complete the first mission the screen go 
 black and then you'll see "Infinty Ward proudly presents..... Call Of Duty 4: Modern Warfare" And 
 you'll see the people who created this game as credits and you'll be driven around the Middle-East 
 to be taken care of. THe multiplayer is fun as hell. There are certain challenges to be completed 
 so you can unlock GUns, Perks, and colors for your gun. I use a M4 Carbine with a nice blue color, 
 it's sick as hell. So inconclusion I've played WAW and although it is a good game the weapons, 
 story, and the multiplayer are not the same as COD4. I recommend you buy COD4 now and just wait 
 for the next cod game instead of spending it on a game with a story that is repeated so many times. 
 Thanks for reading! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bormerc
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 12, 2009 9:14 am PT
Review:  Let's accept this. I never play Call of Duty before ( except CoD 2 ) . But when I play this game, I 
 can say it's perfect. This game is the best of the CoD series. The tricks of high-definition. Let's 
 start now.
  You will start the game as a SAS commando who's name is '' Soap '' Mactagget. Everything is start 
 with death of an Arabian politicion. And you must stop the terrorists. You will start a practice 
 to learn this game. Later, you will line up a fake operation and this will state the difficulty of 
 the game.
  Our old friend Captain Price is on our side. And new characters we have (like Gaz)
  Mactagget 
 is English. But you can play an American Navy soldier Sergeant Jackson. With him, you will try to 
 stop Al Assad ( terrorists ) too.
  The mission is not boring. you will excite when you play this game. But, single mission is short. That's 
 a negative for the game.
  Graphics are perfect. I can't find any deformity in game. Physic motor do the best.
  Sound are 
 incredible, too. You can feel the war inside your ear.
  That's enough. I don't tell the multiplayer because it's perfect, too. If you love modern wars, you 
 gonna like this. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cantoncrusha
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 22, 2008 3:03 pm PT
Review:  The surprising thing about COD4 isn't that it's innovative or that it has the best graphics out 
 of any fps out there. Sure, it's got an addictive multiplayer that can absorb you for months, but 
 at heart COD4 strings together the best elements of fps that there are to offer, such as the regenerating 
 health system and varying weapons. The weapons in this game are very satisfying to shoot, the controls 
 on the PC and Xbox (I have both) are intuitive, and the graphics make you feel like you're a real 
 marine and SAS operative involved in a Russian conflict.
  I think the one thing that holds Call of Duty 4 back is its story. Other reviewers will tell you 
 that it is very intricate and has many surprising plot twists, but aside from a few witty remarks 
 (namely by Cpt. Macmillian in the flashback level) I found the plot to be standard B- rated action 
 flick material. I'm not saying that the story was bad, it just feels used.
  In conclusion, this is a terrific game that lives up to any hype you may have heard (and there's 
 a TON of it, especially since the game is over a year old now) . If you have a PC that can handle 
 it, then you want it for that platform because it obviously looks the best with high resolution 
 AA graphics, but the console versions are no pushovers. My PC isn't top grade, as I have midrange 
 8 series graphics, but the game runs on high settings at a solid 50 fps with AA on. Buy this game! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: akinburak
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 21, 2008 6:26 am PT
Review:  Not onLy a game but aLso a kind of a documentary fiLm! Every part of the game push you through 
 the excitement and joy. Lasting too short may be the onLy negative side; however, this is because 
 of our interest to the game I beLieve!
  Superb! Bravo!
  
  
  Not onLy a game but aLso a kind of a documentary fiLm! Every part of the game push you through 
 the excitement and joy. Lasting too short may be the onLy negative side; however, this is because 
 of our interest to the game I beLieve!
  Superb! Bravo!
  Not onLy a game but aLso a kind of a documentary fiLm! Every part of the game push you through 
 the excitement and joy. Lasting too short may be the onLy negative side; however, this is because 
 of our interest to the game I beLieve!
  Superb! Bravo!
  Not onLy a game but aLso a kind of a documentary fiLm! Every part of the game push you through 
 the excitement and joy. Lasting too short may be the onLy negative side; however, this is because 
 of our interest to the game I beLieve!
  Superb! Bravo! Not onLy a game but aLso a kind of a documentary fiLm! Every part of the game push 
 you through the excitement and joy. Lasting too short may be the onLy negative side; however, this 
 is because of our interest to the game I beLieve!
  Superb! Bravo! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: djedi_master
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 13, 2008 6:29 am PT
Review:  Well, it is the best game I have ever played in all my life... Dramatic storyline, some characters 
 who are too attractive - because they were killed at the end I cried a lot but I enjoyed the game.
 
  
  Yes it is too short but it has been made for players like me - I don't like the games that you 
 need to pass with "relaxing shower" or something like that. It was the game... I just couldn't 
 go away from my computer! Yes I tried to push esc and go away to watch TV but I didn't want to! 
 I was sitting in front of my laptop and pushing buttons, moving mouse... After I passed the game 
 I was really upset because characters I almost understood with their "life points"... They were 
 killed! That wasn't fair! Even epilogue couldn't make me happy... Now I can't leave this game behind 
 - I'm playing it every day with hope that they didn't died... Stupid? Yes I know. But it's the 
 best game I have ever played... Recommend to play it.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: AMDP92
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 12, 2008 2:26 am PT
Review:  My favorite FPS game of 2007...
  
  Call of Duty 4 is the FIRST CoD I have played. I have never played the previous installments...
 
  
  I first heard about CoD 4 when I saw the headlines in Yahoo! It said "Why Call of Duty 4 is the 
 best in the series." Well I didn't bother click it.
  
  When I was in school, my friend told me about CoD 4. He said he saw someone played it in the Internet 
 Caf. He said he thought it was a new Counter-Strike but it was CoD 4. I was like ok, I might give 
 it a try.
  
  A week later I decided to buy Call of Duty 4. Got home, and installed it.
  I was looking at the pictures while it was installing and my impression was "cool".
  
  Afterwards, 
 I opened the application. What gave me the goosebumps was the intro video. Then I clicked the New 
 Game, and so forth. I was left breathless.
  
  The graphics, gameplay, AI, and EVERYTHING was a masterpiece.
  
  The story was nice but it 
 was short.
  
  No other words can CoD 4 be explained. Simply the best shooter I have played (2007) ... hehe! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shayan288
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 7, 2008 2:32 pm PT
Review:  Call of duty 4 is a highly addictive modern warfare game that I would even call a simulator because 
 of its extreme realistic attributes. 
  I could say that this was the best 50 dollars I have ever spent, for I play it so much that I forget 
 that I have 50 other games. This game is way better than the new Call of Duty World at War for 
 that game sucks so bad it shouldn't have even been relesased. I hate the fact that they name this 
 game Call of Duty 4 because of the fact that some noobs look at the title and go "oh COD 5 is out 
 so I guess this game sucks and is old", well they must be retarted. This game is so epic I dont 
 think it could ever get old and boring. Now your all probably thinking that Im just ripping on 
 COD5 cuz I am one of those people who bought COD4 last year and was so proud of it and now that 
 a newer COD is out im just jeolous and sad that this game isnt the "Latest" game, but that's not 
 true I bought this game a couple of weeks ago, 4 days after the release of World at War, and after 
 playing World at War, I was laughing so hard because of how much it sucked. You see folks, COD 
 5 SUCKS!!! this game is so worth getting, and if buy COD5 instead, you are missing out on a lot! 
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kleeyook
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 20, 2009 8:42 am PT
Review:  Well, I have been playing this game for a while with the single player recruit mode. it was a little 
 bit hard for me whom new for FPS. and now I am playing in veteran mode.
  
  The single player is a lit bit too short but it's OK with its intensive gameplay. (too intensive, 
 too realistic)
  
  The problem is that I just discovered that if I run this game NOT as an administer, I can't play 
 my old save games that I played as an administer! same thing goes for multi-player!
  
  I can't track this game with xfire if I run it as an administer. and my multi-player profile is 
 unable to access, either.
  
  Online playing also has a lot of glitches!!!! and heck is there no player data saving on internet!!!? 
 If I format my laptop, will it delete all of my rank and challenge!?? I guess it will.
  
  PS. IT'S THE SAME PROFILE BUT WHY THE HECK CAN'T I PLAY IT TOGETHER!!?
  
  anyone knows how 
 to fix this issue plz tell me!
  
  Actually, it was my foolishness who set this game to run as an administer from the first place. 
 But soon or later I'll have to delete this game out of my laptop anyway. 8GB!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GrimReaperX900
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 24, 2008 6:16 pm PT
Review:  Call of Duty 4 definitely delivers. I haven't played many call of duty games before, but this game 
 certainly stirs up a lot of addictive and intense gaming. The campaign drops the game a little 
 bit because of its sheer shortness, but this is more than compensated by the quality of the campaign, 
 and the intense online multi player mode. If your a hardcore first-person fan, and you haven't 
 reached CoD4 yet, then you should seriously consider buying it. Here are the goods and bads (if 
 there are any) of CoD4:
  
  Good:
  - Perfect feel to playing the game, just feels right
  - Large array of modern weaponry, spits in the face of WW2
  - Campaign is just AWESOME
  - Multi 
 player is the best and unmatched by any other FPS
  - Highly addictive gaming which will keep you strapped to your seat for hours
  
  Bad:
  - 
 Campaign ends
  - Call of Duty 5 came out, which made Call of Duty 4 lose popularity
  
  Again, if your a first-person shooter fan, forget halo, forget battlefield, forget counter-strike, 
 stick with Call of Duty 4 or buy it if you don't have it
  
  My Score: 10/10
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: K-Brad
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 19, 2008 6:16 pm PT
Review:  A shooter that's not WWII, but is FPS all the way.
  
  Yes it is not WWII and I am glad for that. Not that WWII game's are bad or un enjoyable, We just 
 like a pleasant alternative once in a while which is one of the reason's this game is so good. 
 The single player campaign is big or grandiose if you will, you feel engaged in the game play from 
 the very start.
  Some of the scenes make you feel very small in a very big world and I like the added fact that 
 you can move you camera during scenes, you are in the scene alot of the time or around it the rest 
 of the time. The difficulty is just right and your team has your back when and where you need them, 
 but they can miss the enemy a few times. But for the most part they are good. One other issue i 
 have with the game is the invisible walls the you must get through for the enemy to stop coming, 
 In the easier difficulties it not as much of a problem but the harder difficulties makes it tough. 
 And on to what most people would say is the best part of the game.... Online. It really is top notch 
 and has so many challenges for you it would take hours upon hours to complete. A couple of these 
 challenges is to shoot two enemies with one sniper shot and another is to shoot an enemies C4 through 
 a wall to kill him, Those alone will take hours to complete. So in closing i say to anyone planing 
 on buying this game, Do it and you won't be sorry.
  
  - K-Brad 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ac3upmysleeve
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 19, 2008 10:19 am PT
Review:  I remember the moment I first played the demo. I was extremely excited, having been a big fan of 
 the first 2 in the series (cod 3 didn't come out on the PC, as you well know) . The demo was amazing, 
 the best game I had ever played, or so I declared at the time. I bought it as soon as I could (which 
 was a few weeks later, I needed a new PC, which I got) and played the multiplayer for hours and 
 hours and hours each week for ages. However, once I had unlocked almost everything, got to lvl 
 55, and played for far too long, it started to get a bit old. This was surprising, as although 
 I'd played it for hours and hours, I have spent many hundreds more hours on cod 1 and 2 and not 
 got bored of them (even playing predominantly the same map, with the same gun, on the same server 
 with the same regulars) . At this point I reinstalled cod 2 and went back to that.
  However, the whole level and perk system is quite good at first, and the online gameplay is very 
 fun. I personally didn't mind 'marty' and the 'noob tubes' complained about so much by others, 
 and was more bothered by such complaints than the players using these features. For people who 
 aren't used to playing cod (or other online shooters) obsessively, I highly recommend this game 
 (although this is a very late review, I'm writing days after the sequel came out  which I played 
 at the eurogamer expo but haven't played the demo of or pre-ordered it as I might have this might 
 give an indication of my feelings towards cod 4) . I recommend that if you do buy it to play all 
 of the different online game modes, as these add longevity to the game and are each fun in their 
 own way. In addition to this, if you get good at them some are faster for levelling up and unlocking 
 certain perks, so if you want to get them unlocked in a hurry its worth a look about.
  The single player I recently started and finished (almost in the same moment) due to a lack of 
 internet. It is quite exciting and a good game in itself. It is, however, very short. Again  for 
 people not into spending loads of time on a game, this is a good thing, but otherwise, it is a 
 bit too short, and you get the feeling it's just an appetiser for the multiplayer. Still, I enjoyed 
 it a lot while it lasted, you travel the tales of 2 different soldiers, and the two are nicely 
 intertwined. Without giving too much away, the endings to these strands in the game are original 
 and quite well done, but (especially in one case) slightly unpleasant. 
  Summary:
  Not necessarily the best for hardcore CoD fans (although others disagree) but both game modes interesting 
 and fun.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: _FORCE_96
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 18, 2008 12:42 pm PT
Review:  Call of Duty 4: Modern Warfare is one of the best FPS on the market to date. Infinity Ward and Activision 
 got this game spot on with brilliant in-game physics, a short but near perfect campaign and deep 
 multiplayer which stands out the most as it is just quality stuff.
  
  Firstly, the campaign is set around the trouble areas of "Ultranationalist"parts of Russia and 
 a separist group in the middle-east led by a dictator called Al-asad. Your targets are to try and 
 take down the leaders of these two factions with the Britsh SAS and the US Marine Corps. The storyline 
 is just fantastic which is dark and gritty such as tense sniper-missions, massive desert city assaults 
 and an ending that will almost make you cry.
  
  What stands out most for Cod 4 is its multiplayer which is brilliant. You have a system of everything 
 you do earns you experience points with which to unlock new weapons, attatchments and perks to 
 help you. It is very well done though how they make the first gun available actually probably the 
 best and the last gun to unlock is quite awful, the MP44. It is highly addictive and you will spend 
 days on end fighting it out on about 15 very well thought out maps which provide lots of strategies 
 (except countdown which is boring) .
  
  Overall, CoD4 is one of the best ever FPS that is a must buy for PC, 360 and PS3 gamers. Probably 
 the best 35 i ever spent. BRILLIANT. (Captian Price is also a badass brit who takes sh*t from 
 no man) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: long_fellow
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 13, 2009 4:10 am PT
Review:  At the time of its launch, Call of Duty 4: Modern Warfare had a lot of competition. Venerable shooter 
 titles like Halo 3, Crysis, The Orange Box, Bioshock, and more began to crowd the market and introduce 
 the stuff that made 2007 a great year for gaming. But then amid the great strides came Modern Warfare 
  a modern military first-person shooter by Infinity Ward. With a new, modern take on the Call 
 of Duty series, a solid game engine, and a multiplayer unlike any other, CoD4 was set to dominate 
 the industry.
  
  Though extremely popular for its multiplayer, it wouldn't be fair to say that it had no single-player. 
 In fact, it had a superb single-player. The game starts as you step in the shoes of Soap McTavish, 
 a new recruit for the British S. A. S. At boot camp, you are instructed by a fellow soldier to pick 
 up your weapon and take to the shooting range. Here, you'll be learning the basic controls such 
 as shooting, jumping, tossing grenades, and using your melee attacks. You will immidiately notice 
 that the controls are very intuitive, using typical mouse-n-keyboard shooter controls that are 
 easy to use together for satisfying first-person play. The way the controls and interface are structured 
 make the game easy to pick up and learn, even for gamers who are new to the genre.
  
  The game presents itself quickly yet with impact, as you are thrust into the action immediately 
 after boot camp to carry out you missions with the S. A. S. These are comprised of running to checkpoints 
 or objectives and mowing down hordes of spawning enemies, trying to kill them before they kill 
 you. There are some missions that provide different tools for your trade, but the premises are 
 usually quite similar. The game plays generally in the same way as you switch over to a Middle 
 Eastern theatre of war as Sgt. Paul Jackson, part of the U. S. Marine Corps in the Middle East. 
 You'll alternate playing as both Soap and Paul as the story fleshes itself out in both conflicts.
 
  
  The game doesn't really leave much room from anything other than running and gunning, because everything 
 is almost completely linear. It's sometimes frustrating to have enemies just flow in seemingly 
 infinite waves. Though there are times when you feel that you are given lots of room to move around, 
 Call of Duty 4 is not an open world. Despite this linearity, the game will keep you satisfied because 
 you'll be clearing wave upon wave of bad guys in top-notch (yet mid range PC-friendly) graphics, superb 
 background and atmospheric sounds coupled with realistic voiceovers and dialogue that all play 
 together to form an experience that will still leave you with many gasping grins and bad-ass moments.
 
  
  What the gameplay lacks in depth is more than compensated by the game's story/setting and presentation. 
 The story goes that the world is on the brink of what could be the next World War as incited by 
 a communist, West-hating Russian and a Middle Eastern opposition force. The way this story is told, 
 however, spares no one a fairy-tale experience. It's a brutally real depiction of warfare and politics 
 in the world we know today; a situation that seems all too plausible considering the actual tensions 
 that have been developing over the years. Despite the daunting task of using such a serious theme, 
 the game has a brilliant knack for introducing this kind of darkness and complexity without ever 
 becoming too depressing. Instead, it has you feeling like a vital part of the story as a soldier, 
 like the Call of Duty series has never failed to do. Being a soldier will never be depicted as 
 an easy or fun job, but like all the other Calls of Duty, there is a tasteful glorification of 
 the army that gives the player a feeling of pride and patriotism by just playing the game.
  
  The campaign ends after a cool five to six hours, but the game is really just beginning. Once 
 you've finished the single-player story, you have the option to replay all the single-player levels 
 in arcade mode, which is basically a scored play mode. Finishing the single player campaign also 
 gives you the time to explore Call of Duty 4's most defining asset: its multiplayer. Modern Warfare 
 has the kind of multiplayer that you won't be able to put down easily. In fact, most gamers I know 
 have not been able to put it down since its release. It's a deep, competitive multiplayer that 
 keeps you hooked.
  
  Call of Duty 4's multiplayer involves you joining up to 31 other players in objective and point-based 
 games that will test your skill at killing proficiently, capturing and holding positions, covertly 
 planting bombs, defending objectives, etc. in separate game types and different maps to play them 
 in. Your tools will include your primary gun, your side-arm, grenades, special abilities (perks) , 
 your radar map, and your knife. This experience is complemented by a levelling system that will 
 have you accumulating points and completing challenges to unlock more guns and perks that you can 
 use to customize your soldier. This load-out customization allows for many play styles and strategies 
 that add infinitely to the game's longevity, considering that there are more than 20 guns and 20 
 perks to mix and match, not to mention 4 types of grenades and 5 pistols. 
  
  Your choice of guns and perks will affect your play style, but will never define your game completely. 
 That way, it's a balanced playfield for all levels. Whether or not you've unlocked the gun he's 
 using, you can kill him just as much as he can kill you; it will all boil down to skill and strategy. 
 The game is further balanced by the rewarding kill-streak system, such that anyone who gets 3 kills 
 in a row gets a radar scan to reveal opponents' locations for 30 seconds. Anyone who gets 5 in 
 a row gets an airstrike to bomb an area on the map, and anyone who gets 7 in a row gets an unmanned 
 helicopter to automatically shoot down enemies on the map with you. As a result of this meticulous 
 balancing and constant rewarding, you will never feel underhanded or incompetent, even as a new 
 player.
  
  The kind of game you play can also freely be customized, because setting up a game will allow you 
 several options. You can choose the game type (which essentially defines the kind of objectives 
 to achieve) , the maps (that heavily affect play styles and strategies) , time limits, and score 
 limits. There's also Hardcore Mode, which removes your HUD and makes weapons even more deadly. 
 There's the friendly fire option for those who like it realistic and edgy. Then there's Old School 
 Mode, which removes the whole customization system and scatters weapons and perks across the map 
 for players to race to. This level of freedom also adds to the game's replayability, since you 
 will constantly be mastering each map, game type, and game mode. As a host, you will feel very 
 in-control of how your game is structured, allowing you to change the experience every time.
  
  Call of Duty 4's addictive nature comes from the growing trend of competitiveness among gamers. 
 Since you will progressively get better at the game, its competitive nature will beg you to get 
 even better. There will always be a challenge you can't complete or an amazing kill that you'd 
 like to be able to do. For example, there's something so ultimately satisfying about sniping a 
 headshot on a running enemy at a far distance. It's an acquired skill that you would want to hone 
 to perfection. There's also the gratification of killing foe after foe with quick bursts from you 
 assault rifle or quick melees with your knife. Virtually every weapon can give you a great feeling 
 that will keep you wanting more. That's where the game's longevity is rooted on  the sheer fun 
 of playing the game with others and the primal gratification of owning them in constantly varying 
 ways.
  
  In its entirety, Call of Duty 4: Modern Warfare is best described as an experience that no shooter 
 fan or competitive gamer should miss out on. It has a single-player campaign that revitalizes all 
 that's great with the franchise into the present generation. Over that, it boasts one of the best 
 multiplayer experiences to ever grace next-gen gaming with the competitiveness and social interaction 
 that liken the video game to an actual sport. It brings the universal satisfaction of playing with 
 others to a new level with its dynamic systems of customization and balanced gameplay. Its reputation 
 speaks for itself, as it topped Xbox Live charts for long periods of time, competing only with 
 the likes of Halo 3. Put simply, Call of Duty 4 is easily one of the most competitive, hardcore, 
 and ultimately fun games in the market today, and will undoubtedly continue to define the standards 
 for multiplayer experience.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ghost2138
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 16, 2008 7:39 am PT
Review:  Let's get one thing squared away first: I am a card-carrying cynic when it comes to video-games. 
 As such, it is my prerogative to automatically discard 99 percent of the software that hits the 
 market as "a waste of money," "pointless," or, flatly speaking, "crap." In saying this, I implicitly 
 indicate that my assessment is, all false modesty aside, one hundred percent correct, particularly 
 where sequels are concerned; I mean, let's face it: most of the sequels we've seen so far have 
 been fairly disappointing -- if not by sheer virtue of their poor quality, then at least by their 
 unwillingness (or, in some cases, inability) to dramatically improve upon their predecessors' formulas. 
 One really needs to look no further than Command & Conquer 3 to see the "don't fix what ain't broke" 
 mentality at work. Sequels have an annoying tendency to proliferate at a pace more advanced than 
 bunnies in heat, and be just about as entertaining when pitted against their forebears. Having 
 said this, I have to admit that "Call of Duty 4," the third in the series is actually pretty good 
 (we're ignoring COD3 here for all intents and purposes, as it was developed by Treyarch and is 
 thus not a true part of the franchise.) Granted, it doesn't fundamentally reinvent the first-person 
 shooter genre, nor does it break away from the bone-headed design idiosyncrasies that kept "Call 
 of Duty 2" from greatness. Rather, it seems to take the path of least resistance, treading well-established 
 territory; yet it pulls off this feat with such arresting visual panache and outstanding narrative 
 that, despite its somewhat predictable shortfalls of characterization and continuity, it manages 
 to place an unprecedented (for the series, at least) amount of emphasis on deep emotional impact. 
 Without giving too much away, the story this time around revolves around stolen Russian nukes, 
 and American and British special forces doing all they can to avert an Armageddon scenario.
  
  Any jaded feelings of ennui at the predictability of the story are dispelled during the first 
 mission, however, as the S. A. S., in their search for the missing nukes, assault a Russian cargo 
 ship. Without giving too much away, let it be said that the approach they take to this end is far 
 from ethically upstanding, and this is only the first step in a series of very long treks across 
 the grounds of moral ambiguity. It's almost as though the blokes at Infinity Ward read my incessant 
 rambling about gung-ho flag-raising patriotism that runs so rampant at the core of nearly every 
 military-themed shooter, and thus decided to get on my good side by fixing it. Granted, most of 
 these events are scripted and occur regardless of the player's personal moral stake in the story's 
 development, but they are nevertheless staggering in their gravity. If nothing else, the "Modern" 
 part of "Modern Warfare" is extremely well-represented, particularly in the light of present political 
 developments worldwide.
  
  Amazingly enough, the gameplay keeps stride with the story, and does so with a consistency verging 
 on the amazing. The game looks amazing even on a lower-end rig (read: mine) and the script and 
 sound design do an above-average job of immersing you into the battlefield, which is a sight better 
 than some of the recent offerings. In short, if your PC comes decked out with DirectX 10 support, 
 well, kudos for you: you're in for a real visual treat.
  
  As mentioned above, the gameplay is really nothing special when compared to previous "Call of Duty" 
 titles. The saying "if you've played one of these titles, you've played them all" applies as subtly 
 as a bloody beating with a Louisville Slugger. Certainly, it can be argued that the weapons are 
 a modern update over the M1 Garand and the MP44 Sturmgewehr of the "Call of Duties" (or is that 
 "Calls of Duty?") of yore, but ultimately, they basically handle all the same. And yes, you're 
 no longer killing zee Germans; in a traditionally twenty-first Century turn of events, it's time 
 for some brown people to take it in the shorts. Granted, the Middle-Eastern fighters are portrayed 
 tastefully, a la "Battlefield 2"'s MEC (not as the frothy-mouthed, gibberish-spewing fanatics of 
 "C&C Generals") , but even so, the distinctions aren't even skin-deep: they're cosmetic. You still 
 have to progress from point A to point B, taking cover and shooting everything not wearing an American 
 or British flag on its sleeve. Lather, rinse, repeat ad nauseam until a stray rail-shooter sequence 
 comes into sight to break up the tedium. Innovative this ain't. On the subject of the aforementioned 
 rail shooter sequences, they attempt to capture the intensity of "Call of Duty"'s rail shooter 
 sequences (remember the Kubelwagen escape from the dam to the airfield? The daring B-17 bombing 
 raid from "United Offensive"? Could you forget, even if you tried?) but again falls short. Sure, 
 the C-130 Spectre segment is chilling in its silent detachment from the battlefield chaos, but 
 it's hard to be invested in an activity when all you have to do to not die is fire off a lot of 
 ordnance without any concern for your own safety. The ending rail shooter, which also happens to 
 be the final level, has the kind of unprecedented Deus Ex Machina feel that hasn't been around 
 since Sophocles. It almost ruins the momentum of the entire game by the sheer virtue of its very 
 presence.
  
  Still, all these flaws, all these oversights, all of the stereotypical idiosyncrasies permeating 
 the core fabric of this game can be overlooked -- just this once -- in favor of an absolutely astounding 
 package. The single player campaign of "Call of Duty 4," though scripted beyond belief and over 
 oh-so-quickly, is a thrilling, challenging foray. The innovative and robust multi-player and an 
 arcade mode (something of an afterthought, in my opinion) round out the package, extending the 
 life expectancy of the title exponentially. In conclusion, "Call of Duty 4" is far from perfect. 
 What it does have, however, are embers of perfection stirring beneath the black ash of mediocrity, 
 and these embers are bright enough to poke through on more than one occasion. The likes of the 
 few jaw-dropping moments of this game are seen very rarely, but perhaps this is a good thing. The 
 occasional rare jewel should, in fact, make gamers more sensitive to the piles of rubbish that 
 are perpetually being churned out by EA's marketeers. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: IxEmoKidIx
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 15, 2008 6:32 am PT
Review:  You're name is Soap MacTavish, in the beginning of the game.
  When you have started the game, you have first a simple training.
  Then you're going to a garage, 
 and Captain Price is talking to you.
  You have to complete another training, climb the ladder and jump down the rope, shoot some human 
 - pictures under a short - time. 
  When you have finished that, you get a recommended difficulty level. But you can choose anyone 
 you like.
  
  The first mission : Cargo Ship (Yes, same name as the second/third (?) level in Splinter Cell : 
 Chaos Theory) you have to pick up some documents, and in the ship it's alot of ultranationalists.
 
  Done that, you have to run out of the ship, or else you can get killed.. The ship is going to 
 sink !
  I love the scene when you're jumping to the helicopter and you grab to the helicopter and starting 
 to slide down, but then Capten Price helps you out. 
  I like the character, Captain Price. He's wonderful.
  
  By the way, you will also play as a 
 american, I don't remember the name but, yeah. And the some missions is great, some is disappointing.
 
  
  Why I just gave this game a 8?
  Yes because:
  
  The good:
  
  - Nice looking (weapons, cars, people, atmosphere)
  - Mediocre storyline
  - Good dialogues
 
  - Plenty of weapons
  
  The bad:
  
  - To short
  - I don't get a feeling when shooting and so on (that's the one thing who do the game so bad)
 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: megadupek
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 11, 2008 9:24 am PT
Review:  When playing Call of Duty 4 Modern Warfare I had the feeling of being more in a movie and not in 
 a game. This game takes you on a unbelievable ride in a fight against evil terrorists around the 
 world. I played the single player part on the second difficulty level called "Soldier" and it was 
 quite easy. It took me about a full day to finish the single player part. The good thing is that 
 I wasn't really disappointed at the end as there is a great multi player mode waiting with more 
 action. So here is the only bad fact about the game: Although Infinity Ward released seven patched 
 they never fixed the AMD Athlon XP issue. I have an Athlon XP 2600+/2GB RAM/ATI X850 and the game 
 really was freaking fast! I mean even with Anti-Alias activated it was fast! So I really wonder 
 why Activision decided to block AMD? Did Intel pay them to block AMD? I don't get it. So let's 
 recap: Great game, movie feeling, excellent multiplayer part - my personal score: 9,5/10 ! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: The_Joker_15
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 9, 2008 10:51 am PT
Review:  This game is one which the unreal style gamer or the tactical gamer can play. At the regular difficulty 
 level, both playing styles are possible. When you up the difficulty to hardened, it becomes difficult 
 to play tactical because the enemy always has a larger number and they respawn much to fast. However, 
 that wouldn't be a problem if you could be backed effectively by your teammates. For example the 
 first mission in Act II. When the SAS team searches for 
  Al-Asad in that village in Azerbaijan (pardon my spelling if it is wrong) , the rest of the team 
 waits for you to move towards some house and only then follows you once you are there. But all 
 the houses have multiple doors through which the enemy keeps shooting at you. It is really difficult 
 to get to one door, toss in a flashbang, and go in clearing the room without being shot by tangos 
 from the other door. Even if you toss in a grenade there and move towards the other door, the AI 
 respawns real fast and by the time you take a few steps towards the other door, they shoot at you. 
 Either the AI has to spawn slower, or the rest of 
  your team must follow your lead and not just get there after you reload several times and get used 
 to the enemy patters, and work your way around because you know how they will come etc. There should 
 at least be a 'fall in' command so the team stacks up on you. Because it seems stupid otherwise. 
 They hang back, you advance through all the enemy fire get in to the building shoot around a bit 
 and they come there and say 'room clear' like they did all of it.
  
  Weapon sounds need to be much better. They were extremely disappointing. One of the things I love 
 about Battlefield 2, Rainbow Six 3, and a few other games, is the sound of the weapons. 
  
  It makes a big difference. You feel the weapon you fire better if the sounds are close to the real 
 thing. CoDMW sadly, has a nice choice of weapons but the all the rifles feel the same, pistols 
 and snipers feel the same. You cannot tell the difference in most of the 
  weapons of the same category.
  
  And when you reload, you cannot see expended magazines on 
 the ground. You can if some of the A. I reload, but it looks a lot better if you can see the mags 
 you drop. And at every point in the game where you join some group of soldiers who have been holding 
 a position or 
  been shooting from one place, expended magazines on the ground make it look like they have been 
 there for long. 
  
  Also you can pick up two weapons. And most of the time nobody will pick up a pistol. Side arms 
 are rendered useless. And since weapons are always available in plenty, with plenty of ammo, you'll 
 never need to use a side arm. In order to maintain the same game design with out removing the player's 
 ability to pick up any gun he\she chooses and to make the side arm more useful, there should be 
 a side arm slot, like in CoD 1. And every time your gun runs out of ammo and the player is still 
 holding down the fire button, making the player switch to the side are automatically will be a 
 nice touch.
  
  The single player campaign is great. Very nice missions, good story but, unfortunately too short 
 and there is no expansion pack for this game either, which I am really disappointed about. Maybe 
 historically accurate missions of the U. S. M. C and the S. A. S would have been nice. Or more missions 
 to the existing story itself. The U. S. M. C lays siege on a city. There can be a lot of missions 
 based on that. And this is Call Of Duty. The developers can come up with enough material to make 
 a number of missions. From taking out bridges, to assaulting government installations, there can 
 be a lot of missions. And likewise, the S. A. S campaign. 
  There could have been a lot of missions. Unlike games like quake 3, where the single player mode 
 was made to add to the multiplayer experience, Call of Duty in it's core is about the single player 
 experience. But the developers in my view haven't done justice to the game. 
  
  It's a beautiful game, but not long enough to play it sadly. 
  
  I feel ragdoll models would 
 be nicer if they were reactive to gun shots as well and not just explosions. C-4 for booby traps 
 is not very effective as you cannot select which C-4 pack you want to detonate. Everything you 
 put down blows up. Silenced weapons do not have much use except in the missions you play as Captain 
 Price. War-Pig has a .50 caliber mounted on the turret. It would have been nice if that was also 
 functioning in those missions. Friendly A. I seems to take more hits and shoots less. No smoke grenades 
 in the initial missions. It would have come in handy, especially on higher difficulty levels. 
 
  
  Neat shooting through walls feature. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zenwalker
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 9, 2008 12:10 am PT
Review:  I have never written game review before. Frankly, till now, I used gamespot to find ratings, check 
 latest games and view trailers. Recently got my hands on Call of Duty : World at War which is 5th 
 in the series. While playing COD5, I found out what was so great about COD4. Unlike the other titles 
 in the series, this one is setup in a much later time. That makes a lot difference in the gameplay. 
 The weaponry is simply amazing from laser sights to snipers. Environment seems more realistic because 
 it is closer to our time. Even small things brought this game more closer to reality like picking 
 up an enemy grenade and throwing it back on him (Take it, bastard :P ) While Call of Duty 5 is 
 a great game too, but it has become a sort of boring to be in World Wars again and again. Activision 
 should know that we want to come out of trenches and tunnels which the soldiers dug at the time 
 of the war and be more contemporary. The only complaint I have against this title is that it is 
 surprisingly short. But still it deserves a 10 from me. Good job, guys ! :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: downloadthefile
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 8, 2008 6:02 pm PT
Review:  Let me get one thing out of the way; I had a blast playing the single player campaign in this game, 
 which is top quality. There are very many unique situations, including a very difficult and fun 
 assassination mission in which you play as a British sniper. That aspect of the game has great 
 graphics and is something that will be loved by anyone who has even a slight interest in first 
 person shooters.
  
  The multiplayer does not get the same type of praise from this gamer. A lot of the time the multiplayer 
 is very unorganized, with no clear strong or weakpoints in the battlefield. Speaking of battlefields, 
 Battlefield 2 does a much better job of multiplayer than this game, which came out two years later. 
 The lack of vehicles is pretty annoying, and the maps are disappointing. The best part of the multiplayer 
 is the variety of weapons available to use.
  
  Overall, single player is short and sweet, but the multiplayer is just rotten, with no organized 
 play whatsoever, leading me to give the game only an 8.5 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FatBird1978
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 8, 2008 9:16 am PT
Review:  I have very few complaints about this game. I do think the maps could be bigger. I also think the 
 spawn system could be a little better: you might sometimes find yourself suddenly spawned in front 
 of blazing lead, headed right toward your face during a TDM. And I would like to see a little more 
 cover e. g. more bushes trees etc. 
  Still - this is the best first person shooter I've seen to date. I love the: smoke, stun, C4, claymores, 
 RPGs and flash grenades. I love the physics of this game, it seems so fluid, not too slow - not 
 too fast. The ability to "shank" someone in close quarters is great; it always gets the heart pounding. 
 The graphics are amazing too. This game, in my opinion is great. 
  
  I just pre - ordered World at War (AKA COD 5) . If it surpasses, or even matches 4, I'll be quite 
 content. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: slayerpker
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 11, 2009 7:11 pm PT
Review:  I pretty well think that the above sums it up! The only problem I have noticed was It was short... 
 almost too short. There was also not too much of a variety in gameplay. I got a little impatient 
 with the lack of thinking, as much of it is simply kill all enemies and move on. This is just my 
 standpoint. Dont get me wrong, this is an amazing game. The physics engine Is alot better, which 
 adds to the realism. There is a noticable increase in intellegence in AI, which both adds realism 
 and a slightly different gameplay. Online Multiplayer is amazing, and takes online shooters to 
 a new level. Multiplayer allows you to take out other players by such as airstrikes, and helicopter 
 attacks. It is worth buying it. I have so far played far more multiplayer than singleplayer, while 
 both are great. If you dont have it, I suggest you buy it ASAP. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sirmepants
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 5, 2008 12:08 pm PT
Review:  This game is so addicting that I started it with a girlfriend, I don't have one anymore. But on 
 a more serious note this game looks amazing, sounds fantastic (especially with 5.1 surround sound) , 
 has smooth game play, and, to top it all off it has an awesome story line that plays out perfectly 
 with where and when you are. If you are looking for perfect this is as close as you will get in 
 a First Person Shooter (without being a game designer and making or having a First Person Shooter 
 Yourself) , it is the best First Person Shooter I have ever seen that is for sure. If my disc broke 
 I would shell out the 40-50 Bucks to get another copy. I HIGHLY recommend this game. And that is 
 just single player, online is what drew me back in, wit tons of unlockable online weapons, features, 
 and the ability to customize what weapons and features you take into battle with you, online isn't 
 just fun it is also a great credit to the overall game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ben_Sim
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 3, 2008 7:29 pm PT
Review:  You may have seen alot of war movies or documentaries. Call Of Duty 4: Mordern Warfare is the game 
 for you if you want to immerse yourself in a true war experience even though the story is fiction. 
 Playing through the game, you feel like you are part of something big and there would be some unexpected 
 twist to every chapter. It some sort feels like a movie and you are the main character in every 
 scene. THe graphics and sound is amazing. 
  And I love the ending chapter, it feels like you have done a huge part in saving the world from 
 nuke attacks (how I wish there was a part which we can hack the comp to stop the missile from detornating) . 
 The ending shows all your team memebers sacrifice themselevs, desperately trying to stop all the 
 terrorist. The scene which Capt. Price threw the side-arm to you and kill the leader, it was a 
 marvellous ending.
  After playing this game, you know war is not such a good thing, but through war, we know brave 
 men exist.
  
  :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: amanbis
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 2, 2008 11:51 pm PT
Review:  *This review will focus only on the single player part of the game.*
  
  There is something about COD 4 that makes me go all warm and fuzzy. That is not to say the game 
 is like that; unless you count explosions as warm and the blurred vision afterwards as fuzzy. So 
 moving on to the game, it is, quite honestly, one of the most fun games I have played in a while. 
 Games these days almost feel like a chore, but man! COD 4 was a blast!
  
  Starting off with the story, it is a standard gritty, save the world storyline. Only that is it 
 delivered with almost 0 sentiment and 100% badassery. There are many memorable characters and surprisingly 
 even the character the player controls is great (you control about 2-3 characters) ! The storyline 
 is enjoyable enough to keep you playing, but that's not the main part of the game. It is really 
 in the execution of the gameplay and pacing where COD 4 shines.
  
  Gameplay in COD 4 is the standard of the FPS genre. If the gameplay were simply by itself, it would 
 make for an average shooter. What makes COD 4 rise above the pack is its immersive and intense 
 atmosphere. The whole game is a roller-coaster ride, from start to finish. Mixed with excellent 
 pacing of the storyline and the precise gunplay, it comes off as a very thoroughly handled and 
 polished package.
  
  However, COD 4 is not without faults. First and foremost is its average AI. Yes yes, the enemy 
 soldier duck behind cover and try their best to kill you. It's not the enemy AI I'm talking about, 
 but the friendly AI. What's with the "Hey I'm the Captain and but you still get to lead the army 
 into hell". I understand that since you are the main character there'll be times where YOU have 
 to do this and that, and that too! But when enemies are attacking and we have 1 minute to get to 
 the helicopter, I would expect my Honorable Captain to lead the way, not some sergeant.
  
  Also, although the graphics are good enough and the framerate ticks at a (surprisingly) consistent 
 rate, more could have been done. There are some occasional physics glitches where rag dolls move 
 oddly and some pretty bland textures (just look at those bitmap doors) . Otherwise, the engine is 
 heavily optimized and ran great on full settings on my old 6600 at 640 x 480 (med-high on 800 x 
 600) and blazing fast on my new 8800 GT.
  
  The animations are also worth mentioning, especially the reload animation. It is so fluid that 
 I could watch it over and over again. Just  get the 
 idea. Though it could have been more varied with soldiers as I keep noticing the same dying animation 
 many times. Nothing very major.
  
  And finally, as a positive side note, I find this one of the few war games that do not glorify 
 war. This game is gritty, bloody, intense, and just simply brutal. For example, sometimes when 
 the enemies are not dead, they are still writhing around on the ground, sometimes just trying to 
 reach for their fallen weapon when you shoot them point blank to put them out of their misery. 
 War is hell, and it shows. I wouldn't be surprised if the enlistment rate goes down after this.
 
  
  All in all, this is a rather short but sweet shooter. There are a few minor issues that if addressed 
 in the next game will make it even sweeter. And Treyarch, pray make the next single player a bit 
 longer? OK thanks.
  
  Summary:
  
  Presentation: 8
  Slick menus, but more depth of options could have been added for the PC.
  
  Graphics: 8
  
 Graphics on the whole are pretty snazzy but it does have its fair share of bland textures. Special 
 mention should be given to its engine for its consistent framerate. The new DOF and blur effects 
 make the game even more immersive.
  
  Sound: 9
  Explosions and gunfire sound great. The music has the standard action-movie "oomph" which is very 
 fitting.
  
  Gameplay: 10
  It's COD 4! 'Nuff said.
  
  Replayability: 9
  I did not review the multi-player. But basing on the single-player itself, it's one helluva ride 
 I want to take again!
  
  Overall: 9.5 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tracekill
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 2, 2008 8:51 pm PT
Review:  Now, I loved this game and still play it fanatically every weekend. Gotta get those golden weapons 
 right? And I have to say the entire single player campaign was fantastic. Rich story line, enthralling 
 characters, explosive and exciting (however depressing) end; a great all-around FPS. The only thing 
 this game lacks, and what is perhaps the most common burden laid upon the shoulders of emerging 
 FPS titles, is replayability. There is none. The story line is linear (as are the levels, though 
 they attempt to mask this) and multiplayer has only a handful of incentives to continue playing 
 and all are quickly exhausted as you mow down superficial 'achievements' as quickly as your laser-accurate, 
 1-shot-kill weapon can spurt out bullets. Now, I do play in HC mode since I couldn't handle the 
 epilepsy inducing neurotica of non-HC mode, with the flashing lights, pretty colors and reassuring 
 "+10" messages. All in all, I'd say Infinity Ward did well breaking their chain of mediocre WWII 
 shooters to produce a truly excellent modern FPS experience. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jorum7
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 2, 2008 5:38 pm PT
Review:  THIS GAME IS A MUST HAVE!!! THIS GAME IS A MUST HAVE!!! THIS GAME IS A MUST HAVE!!! THIS GAME IS A 
 MUST HAVE!!! THIS GAME IS A MUST HAVE!!! THIS GAME IS A MUST HAVE!!! THIS GAME IS A MUST HAVE!!! THIS 
 GAME IS A MUST HAVE!!! THIS GAME IS A MUST HAVE!!! THIS GAME IS A MUST HAVE!!! THIS GAME IS A MUST 
 HAVE!!! THIS GAME IS A MUST HAVE!!! THIS GAME IS A MUST HAVE!!! THIS GAME IS A MUST HAVE!!! THIS GAME 
 IS A MUST HAVE!!! THIS GAME IS A MUST HAVE!!! THIS GAME IS A MUST HAVE!!! THIS GAME IS A MUST HAVE!!! THIS 
 GAME IS A MUST HAVE!!! THIS GAME IS A MUST HAVE!!! THIS GAME IS A MUST HAVE!!! THIS GAME IS A MUST 
 HAVE!!! THIS GAME IS A MUST HAVE!!! THIS GAME IS A MUST HAVE!!! THIS GAME IS A MUST HAVE!!! THIS GAME 
 IS A MUST HAVE!!! THIS GAME IS A MUST HAVE!!! THIS GAME IS A MUST HAVE!!! THIS GAME IS A MUST HAVE!!! THIS 
 GAME IS A MUST HAVE!!! THIS GAME IS A MUST HAVE!!! THIS GAME IS A MUST HAVE!!! THIS GAME IS A MUST 
 HAVE!!! THIS GAME IS A MUST HAVE!!! THIS GAME IS A MUST HAVE!!! THIS GAME IS A MUST HAVE!!! THIS GAME 
 IS A MUST HAVE!!! THIS GAME IS A MUST HAVE!!! THIS GAME IS A MUST HAVE!!! THIS GAME IS A MUST HAVE!!! THIS 
 GAME IS A MUST HAVE!!! THIS GAME IS A MUST HAVE!!! THIS GAME IS A MUST HAVE!!! THIS GAME IS A MUST 
 HAVE!!! THIS GAME IS A MUST HAVE!!! THIS GAME IS A MUST HAVE!!! THIS GAME IS A MUST HAVE!!! THIS GAME 
 IS A MUST HAVE!!! THIS GAME IS A MUST HAVE!!! THIS GAME IS A MUST HAVE!!! THIS GAME IS A MUST HAVE!!! THIS 
 GAME IS A MUST HAVE!!! THIS GAME IS A MUST HAVE!!! THIS GAME IS A MUST HAVE!!! THIS GAME IS A MUST 
 HAVE!!! THIS GAME IS A MUST HAVE!!! THIS GAME IS A MUST HAVE!!! THIS GAME IS A MUST HAVE!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MILiTiA_MCALL
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 31, 2008 8:02 pm PT
Review:  One of the best games ive ever played, mp is great, the ability to create your own personalized 
 class its the best thing of the game, controls are easy to learn, is very realistic. The scope feature 
 is the best ive seen, it's very realistic, holding your breath just to keep the weapon still, thats 
 awesome.
  SP could have been a little longer though, it's very good actually but short, and it wasn't hard 
 either, even in the hardest difficulty.
  One conn of the game is that air strikes and choppers give you a lot of kills and you won't stop 
 killing once you start getting things, there should be a limit and you shouldn't be able to use 
 them for sometime, or it should have a maximum of 5 per round.
  Anyway this game is focused on the skill of the player is a real fps, with no vehicles but just 
 yourself in the battlefield, testing your abilities. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Emilyek_1
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 6, 2008 7:27 pm PT
Review:  At its core COD4 is an atavistic shooter: it is arcadey, almost like a 3D version of a 2D platformer 
 in which wave after wave of enemies just keep coming, level after level. But matched to lean, relentless 
 storytelling done well -- storytelling in which the shooting doesn't get bogged down by the narrative, 
 and the narrative doesn't suffer from excess of mindless gunplay -- we get a cinematic roller coaster 
 of a game.
  
  COD4's design is generally excellent. The plot is simple yet interesting and has a contemporary 
 salience. Every handsome, inspired and well-designed level has a unique gameplay aspect keeping 
 it fresh. The shooting is fun and purposeful in terms of its relevance to the rest of the game. 
 The cutscenes are slick and never intrusive. The sound and voicework are superb. The overall intensity 
 of experience the game produces is heart-pounding.
  
  The result of all these smart development decisions is a COD4 that is good-looking, cool and loads 
 of fun to play.
  
  And while, say, HL2 is a work of fine cinema, COD4 is self-consciously a summer popcorn film. It's 
 probably the greatest game of this type ever made.
  
  And like a summer action film, it doesn't last thirty hours. The game may be short, but never has 
 'action-packed' been a more appropriate adjective.
  
  The multiplayer, not without its annoying console-bound quirks like a limit of five custom classes 
 and fussy interface (as well as cheating helicopters) is equally intense and exciting, although 
 the map design pales in comparison to that found in the singleplayer.
  
  To sum up, COD4 is a double formula perfected: it is a perhaps unsurpassable mix of the joys of 
 mowing down waves of bad guys with tight and driven torytelling.
  
  And it's not to be missed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: djnet
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 29, 2008 11:11 pm PT
Review:  This game is very really and very near to raelity.
  Call of Duty 4 (Modern Warfare) is best game in their series and another game can't get this game.
 
  I'm very very happy for this.
  The story is centered around a fictional near-future conflict involving the United States, the 
 United Kingdom, and Russia, who are fighting against Russian ultranationalists in civil war torn 
 Russia, and rebels that have staged a coup d'tat in a small Middle Eastern country. It is told 
 from the perspectives of a United States Marine and British SAS operative, and is set in multiple 
 locations, including the Middle East, Azerbaijan, Russia, and Prypiat, Ukraine.
  The multiplayer portion of the game features various game modes, and contains a leveling system 
 that allows the player to unlock additional weapons, weapon attachments, and camouflage schemes 
 as they advance.
  You should play this game.
  Let's go and don't waste of Time... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: scotty_12
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 28, 2008 8:35 pm PT
Review:  during single player you will play as 2 diferent player the first you will meet is soap mctavish 
 and english sas soldier while using this person you will do your training and first mission.
  the second person you meet is pvt jackson [i think] who fight for the us marine corps who tragically 
 dies in a nuclear explosion.
  every second mission you change players and do missions in different parts of the world versing 
 different enemies the 2 enimies are the russians [stetznas] and the terrorists [opfor/operational 
 forces] .
  
  towards the end of the game the british sas and the usmc join forces to defeat the enimie and stop 
 the easter seabord of america bieng nuked.
  
  the only part of this game i didnt like is that all the maps are diferentials from single player 
 levels and that there are weapons and attachments in single player that have been changed in multiplayer.
 
  
  e. g. the g3 in singleplayer is fully automatic but single shot in multiplayer
  the red dot scope in singleplayer is changed to a reflex scope in multiplayer 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ppshterror827
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 26, 2008 11:09 am PT
Review:  This game is simply awesomeness. I have enjoyed this games so much after I finally got it to run 
 on the only computer in my household which has the required graphics card. Even though you will 
 probably find yourself dying again, and again, and again, and again, the fact that there isn't 
 much punishment for it makes it hardly noticeable. There are some instances which are simply hardcore 
 and will keep you on the edge of your seat, and some instances where you will be awed by the awesome 
 presentation [spoilers: like in the time after the Nuclear Explosion in the Middle East, where 
 your character eventually dies from radiation poisoning.] . I advise you to purchase it, you will 
 love emptying an entire SAW clip into a large cluster of enemies, and launching a high-explosive 
 105mm shell directly on top of a Russian Ultra nationalist. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: beertje111
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 26, 2008 6:04 am PT
Review:  it's a bit easy but when you going play on normal it's to dificult for someone who plays a first-person 
 shooter for his first time so it's a 7,5 but the multiplayer option is the best ever when you like 
 a shoot game go and play COD 4 on computer i am 55 now and I still want to go further to become 
 the best player with all gold weapons and red tiger for every gun but the single player option 
 is a bit boring because spent like 3 hours and you have it done so if you only want to play it 
 on single player don't buy it!
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
   
::::::

::::::
UserName: maynevibe
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 25, 2008 2:28 pm PT
Review:  Took Me maybe 5 hours to finish the single player campaign. Even though it has a good and engaging 
 storyline.. seems a bit short for the price you pay.. this is soon made up by the multiplayer, 
 The brilliant rpg style perk system and Balanced maps with all the normal game styles makes it 
 addictive fun and violent.. The graphics in this game are beautiful. sometimes photo realistic, 
 From grenade shockwaves. to butterflies in the grass... make it all the more engrossing, the sound 
 is excellent.. crouched on the top floor of a house you can hear the boots of the enemy enter below 
 you... Tension building... The Only truly bad thing i dont like about this game and this is pretty 
 trivial.. is in multiplayer.. the perk martydom... when you die you leave a live grenade.. so if you 
 sneek up on someone take them out with your knife. then blam.... aprt from that... Awsome game... 
 a strong 9/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ksock
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 24, 2008 5:46 am PT
Review:  This game is like no other. It is the best i've played so far. In the beginning I thought it was 
 a boring game and a waste of cash. Then I played the game as I had no other choice. The dull menu 
 and boring tutorial could tell you that this is a boring game and the prologue ( the part in the 
 ship ) wasn't the best way to start a game but after that I realized that this game i worth playing. 
 It has nearly everything you can expect in a military based FPS. It has great gameplay and i just 
 love those parts where you have to be stealthy. The ending couldn't be better as it was the best 
 way to end a game like this.
  The single player campaign was awesome. The multi player was equally good as it provides you a 
 wide range of maps.
  this game was extremely entertaining and I can tell that it is nothing less than a masterpiece, 
 Activision have outdone themselves.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hiddai
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 20, 2008 9:21 am PT
Review:  This game i got in Hanukkah vacation for my birthday from my parents. 
  
  The story of this game is a high quality compare to the previous plot-less games in the series. 
 The game tells its story from multiple perspectives, and you'll play as a new British SAS operative 
 but also as a US Marine. The campaign takes you from a rainy night out at sea on a boat that's 
 in the process of sinking to a missile silo where it's on you to save millions from an unsavory 
 nuclear-powered death. Along the way, there are plenty of jaw-dropping moments where you'll look 
 around the room for someone to whom you can say, "I can't believe that just happened." In a world 
 filled with war games in which the good guys come out unscathed and the world is left at total 
 peace, Call of Duty 4 will wake you up like a face full of ice water.
  The Single Player campaign is built like a movie when each level is actually a chapter. However 
 you will be disappointed to find out that even though it's a fantastic movie... it's too short.
 
  
  The game has tons of weapons from various pistols to SMG's, Shotguns, Assault Rifles, LMG's and 
 Sniper rifles
  It's Graphic is amazing no doubtly as well as the Sound both gives you a feeling like you are in 
 a movie.
  
  The Multiplayer of the game is a really top-quality and no doubtly one of the best FPS multiplayer 
 modes ever!!!
  You can play in various maps some of whom are USMC Vs. OPfor and some are SAS Vs. Spetsnaz. You 
 start as level 1 up to level 55 as you need to complete missions in order to level up. some of 
 the missions are killing missions for example killing 25 people when you complete the mission you 
 earn points and also unlock a new ability for your guns such as Red Dot sight scope or silencer 
 - depend on the gun. As you level up you unlock new challenges and new guns. There are other types 
 of missions like killing by head-shots, knife-kill and win certain number of games and more. The 
 MP gameplay itself is amazing and extremely addictive and you'll find yourself burning hours and 
 days on it.
  
  This game is a must even if you didn't like the previous games and especially for those who want 
 to play a really good multiplayer game. So what are you waiting for? BUY IT!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: drakomel
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 20, 2008 7:11 am PT
Review:  This Modern 1st person shooter warfare is very good and fun, this game has M16, more cool modern 
 weapons and I think that you can drive a plane or a tank, I think I i'm starting to like this game! This 
 game is the coolest, I like this because of the weapons, the graphics and of course, the missions. This 
 game can bring people to stay awake for 15 or 20 hours. This game has mind-bending games that will 
 shoot at the top of gandala peak by using a jericho missile! This game is similar to the other call 
 of duty games and bring a blast to playing and this game will drive you crazy! I can't believe why 
 shouldn't I buy this game. This is better than medal of honor. Medal of honor has almost the same 
 objectives. The other call of duty games are low graphics (some of them has great graphics) . If you 
 brought your laptop and used this game to have fun somewhere. A laptop and a game can be a great 
 combination. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: The_Mo
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 19, 2008 3:07 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay:
  
  This is Call of Duty, the game that set the record for best WWII games. Now using that same engine 
 they have set their next game over 50 years into the future. During these 50 years the features 
 within the game increased. You now have Helicopter shooting and a great stealth and sniper level. 
 Escape levels, a plane hijack level and the ending is pretty epic too, featuring a car chase and 
 a pistol shot. You play as two soldiers from two different armies so its pretty much two game storylines 
 fitting as one in the end, with perfect execution of the two. The arcade mode is a great addition 
 to the games that allows you to replay levels and gather up points. The multiplayer is great allowing 
 a new feature called 'Perks' Where you add different scopes and extras such as bullets and such 
 on guns so each player can play differently. The shooting is great, holding fronts is great, raiding 
 shops is great. THIS GAME IS GREAT!
  
  Graphics:
  
  Stunning. The graphics are stunning, just seeing the ground blow up in-front of view from grenades, 
 seeing enemy helicopter and tanks blow up from close range and seeing sniped enemies fall down 
 from roof tops or towers. The visuals in this game really make you feel that this is modern warfare.
 
  
  Sound:
  
  The sound is great, Its all screaming, grenades exploding and gunfire. What more do you want? The 
 sound really makes you feel that this is war. I cannot stress how many times my heart skipped a 
 beat cause a grenade exploded. One of the best heavy breathing after getting shot, team mates shouting 
 orders, and the lamest joke at the end of the game. "We're going in and we're going hard." "Surly 
 you cant be serious?" "Im serious... and don't call me Shirley."
  
  Value:
  
  Worth the money? HELL YES. Its Call of Duty, Its Modern Warfare, the single player is great and 
 the multiplayer is one of the best out there. This is definitely worth the price and it would be 
 a shame if you pass by it and not pick it up.
  
  Lifespan:
  
  Trust me, this game will last long. The arcade mode, beating the hijack level on veteran, and beating 
 the whole game on veteran difficulty if you want a challenge. Also you can stay on the multiplayer 
 for hours a day just because its that great, the new 'Perks' options changes the direction of first 
 person shooting towards the better. So if time is what your worrying about, then don't worry. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ch1nzo
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 18, 2008 7:59 pm PT
Review:  This game is just great in almost everyway.
  
  COD4 have become 1 of my most favourite game. Ill tell you why!
  1st, lets talk about the graphics, 
 it can run on pretty smooth on most computers of modern day. The engine may not contain much of 
 a mind blowing stuff like cry engine 2, but it can seriously build up the atmosphere around you, 
 its like getting inside a hollywood movie! the textures are high res; bump, bloom, specular maps 
 are used in great balance and makes the world look just real. The animations are soo realistic, 
 not like stick figures like animations in most games. When you just play the game 1st time, when 
 you just look at your gloves, it just looks so real, the dust in the air, the death animations, 
 when you knive someone, it looks and feels great. Specially in single player, the campeign is just 
 simply amazing, and it will suck you in instantly. OH GOD, its fking hard to describe, here is 
 an advice, YOU REALLY DONT WANNA MISS A MOMENT IN THIS GAME!! Sound: the music in the game is really 
 good, specially in single player, the gun sounds are different, which helps a lot in multiplayer 
 game, when you go stealth, you will understand how the games music and sound does the job. The 
 voice acting is great, the characters have their very own voices that seperates them from each 
 other. Trust me, when you play the campeign, the characters voices will stay in your mind like 
 how your favourite super hereos stayed in your mind when you were little kid. well, just to tell 
 you, the game has probably the best audiovisual you will ever experience.
  
  Single Player:
  Oh I love the singleplayer, the story is sooo koool. You will play as a SAS newbie 
 and US Marine. Agh, from the 1st level to the last level, it is just SOOO F**KING AWESOME! they 
 are soo many eye-popping, jaw dropping moments that you will go like OMFG! I CANT BELIEVE THAT 
 JUST HAPPENED! its just soo unexpecting, surprising, seriously it will blow your mind. the singleplayer 
 is probably the best campeign ever! It feels tense, adrenaline, mind blowing, thrilling, breathtaking, 
 the every word and sound that you hear, every shot you take, every movement you make, everything 
 you see is pure gold, the singleplayer is just made of gold. The only problem was it was short! 
 oh well, after you complete the single player, you just wanna tell the world how great gaming experience 
 you had, and thanks to the different difficulties, the arcede mode, and the collective intelegence 
 laptops makes the game much more re-playable. I completed the game on every difficulty, and on 
 arcede mode as well.
  
  Multiplayer:
  If you just finished the single player, well, lets just say you just had a 1st bite of your starter 
 in your 3 course meal. Because the Multiplayer is astonishing, it has long playability, highly 
 addictve and of course, highly challanging. In consoles, you play up to 18 players, in PC, probably 
 up to 64 players, not sure, but the most i played was 55 players i think. Most of the maps are 
 based on the single player campeign map, and there are around 20 maps including the one that came 
 out with the latest patch. It also has about 6 game modes. Oh also you earn points and get higher 
 rank, and unlock staff. Ok, those things were the things you can find on other online FPS games. 
 But here are the unique parts that made the game soo different. 1st, tactical advantages that are 
 earned when you get kill streaks (kills without dying) . So how it works is like this, if you kill 
 3 enemies in a row without dying, you can call UAV, and it will pop-up most of the enemies on your 
 radar! so you can hunt them down easily since you know where they are. When you get 5 kill streak, 
 you can call Air support, which is pretty much a carpet bomb really, the enemies in the area of 
 bombing, except the ones under a safe cover are just dead. Now if you get 7 kill streak, which 
 is pretty easy if you used air strike, you can call heli to help you to kill your enemies, it gives 
 a great tactical advange.
  
  2nd, the class system. You earn points by killing enemies, completing objectives, or completing 
 challanges. The challanges are fun to complete, and it will give you some xp, each kill will give 
 10 xp, and objectives will give you much higher xp, and by earning xp, you will be able to gain 
 class, and get new weapons, customazations and perks. The weapons in multi are balanced just right. 
 The customazations will get your equipments ready for the right conditions, and perks will give 
 you great tactical advantages and boost your gameplay styles. 3rd, the hardcore mode. If the server 
 chooses hardcore mode, all the players hud will go off, you cant even see your ammo, and the gun 
 damages are more realistic and deadly. It makes the multi much more fun and challanging. 
  
  Overall, the game is almost orgasmic, highly addictive, offers you the expierence you've never 
 had before, both single and multi both top of the top.
  
  the game is avaliable in PC, XBOX360 and PS3. PC version is more for serious gamers, who like to 
 play or make mods. The console versions may cost you more than the pc version, since you have to 
 pay for things like xbox live, blah blah, but you will get medals from completing the lvl55, which 
 is the only thing that pc version dont have. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ckarthik17
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 17, 2008 10:13 am PT
Review:  This is the best war game i have ever played, cinematic story of this game is superb. Every gamer 
 should try this game... I am sure you will not uninstall this game without completing it..
  
  Graphics is also great. It runs fine on my 8600 GT.
  Intro of the game is like a Hollywood 
 movie.
  
  Each level has some thing different that u will enjoy. The enjoyed the level where we attach from 
 the flight.
  
  The climax of the game will be in ur mind for a long time.
  
  I think even COD: World of War will not be up to this.
  
  Just Rocks, A must play game. Each 
 level has some thing different that u will enjoy.
  
  Call of Duty 4: Modern Warfare is developed by Infinity Ward. i am waiting for the next Call of 
 Duty series (i think COD 6) developed by the same Infinity Ward. There are many new weapons that 
 u can try. As a final say if u haven't tried it yet try it today..... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hashmanalum
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 16, 2008 4:32 pm PT
Review:  After reading some of the reviews out there about Call of Duty 4 I was a little worried about the 
 length of the game, many said that it could be completed in a day or less of play...
  
  Well you ACTUALLY can complete it very fast but WHY IN GOD'S NAME you would play this insane game 
 just once? =D
  CoD4's mojo isn't in it's length but in the experience that it gives.
  
  I've never seen a FPS that mixed amazing graphics, realistic sound effects, intense/compelling 
 music, good AI, photo realistic environments AND, the most important of all, TONS OF BULLETS/THINGS 
 TO BLOW. =P
  
  Beside all the above the history has some well thought out characters, like captain Price and Gaz, 
 which gives a whole lot more depth to the events in the game. You come to like those guys and this 
 is a very hard thing to do when playing a fast paced FPS like this one. 
  
  The history itself is quite common, but the way the history is told makes all the difference, a 
 good example is the First Person View of important events which I won't spoil to you now... hehehe 
 
  
  The fun in this game is that you're not Rambo, a dude with an uber-nanosuit or a scientist with 
 gravity manipulating weapons, you're just a regular person fighting a war and have to be careful 
 like every guy around you. The fun here is to BE part of the war and not the center of with.
  
  I could say a lot about the beauty of the game and all that but you probably already know that, 
 the CoD series is well known by making top notch games. But if you want to play a game that is 
 gorgeous AND has a simple, yet satisfying, story I couldn't recommend a better FPS. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: harrnatorz
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 15, 2008 5:07 am PT
Review:  The first thing u'll notice about this game is the pretty good looking graphics !! The game story 
 is really good as you play parallel roles between two characters in the U. S. M. C and the S. A. S searching 
 for the same person , the bad guy .The awesome graphics however dont come with a price as i've 
 seen my friend play it on his nvidia 6 . Keeping the visually stunning looks aside the sound is 
 just Extreme !! It really give you that heart-stopping feel as you play on through the game .The 
 missions are really innovative as you dont just play on only the ground but also the sky and on 
 the sea and in one crazy mission you play in a ghilly suit. The really neat features include you 
 being able to throw back the grenades which the enemies throw at you .The realisim in the gameplay 
 relly stuck to me .When you pick up a sniper you wont be able to just shoot like you do in other 
 games . You need to focus your breathing and keep the direction of the wind in mind !! 
  Pretty neat eh ?? The bottom caption ill give to this game is "highly addictive" . To justify that 
 id like to share the fact that i started playing this game just before my terminal exams began 
 and finished it within four exams and the cool part is ... i was playing during them !! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Pinecone99
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 14, 2008 8:44 pm PT
Review:  gameplay 9.5
  
  cod4 has some of the best shooter game to date. with intense action sequences and many variations 
 of how modern warfare is portrayed, you will never get tired of it. Bullet penetration adds good 
 depth to the game and so does the ai on both sides of the battle. SP and MP are both great.
  
  graphics 9.0
  
  it looks great and plays great too, even on older computers like i have. 
 although its not like crysis on max settings, it has its own beauty and in some ways i think it 
 is one of the better looking games, especially since it is optimized so well. the best thing is 
 that it looks good even without a good comp.
  
  value 9.5
  
  i just got this game recently and ive really only played the SP. there are many things u can do 
 and approach situations differently, even though it is a linear shooter. ive played some MP and 
 its awesome! This game will last for a very long time because of great gameplay, exciting SP and 
 extremely in depth MP.
  
  This one of my favorite games to date and i will continue to play for a very long time. Get this 
 game. i have it for the PC. My name is Pinecone. Have fun and enjoy! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fandom888
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 14, 2008 5:34 am PT
Review:  Call of Duty is a well-known series amongst the fans of First-person shooter games. So, this new 
 game, which is the fourth sequel of the series, has to do with modern warfare, instead of WWII 
 battles.
  
  The campaign of the game is pretty good. It is well supported, in spite of being fictional, and 
 it is also a story which you will certainly love. However, the game is extremely short, and this 
 is what surprises me. Still a good story mode.
  
  Another advantage of the game is its multiplayer mode. You can really have great fun while playing 
 on-line. The game supports up to 18 players, while there is a variety of weapons to use. You can 
 also gain experience in order to unlock multiplayer content.
  
  It is very important in the game to rank up and upgrade your class. When doing it, you will be 
 able to use different weapons.
  
  Call of Duty 4 is a game you must have if you like shooting games just a bit. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: awwitz
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 9, 2008 9:16 pm PT
Review:  This is one hell of a game. A unique turn from all other COD games, and all FPS games for that 
 matter.
  (STORY)
  The overall story is fantastic, though you might've known the premise from other games -- a massive 
 terrorist threat, apt to destroy the world and all that. But there's more to the story of COD4 
 than meets the eye. A few twists and turns make the story bit mor interesting. The downside is 
 that the story is a fair bit on the short side, which means, if there's a short story element, 
 the entire game itself would be affected. Cue in some drastic comments on why this game ended fast 
 in the single player.
  (GRAPHICS)
  The graphics are astounding! A great leap in graphical presentation. This is a plus when it comes 
 to luring gamers into its grasp. A lot of games should have this element. People love to see nice 
 graphics and overall presentation. It's part of the critics' scoresheet. Anyway, you'd see pretty 
 realistic battle-grounds in this game. The inividual characters are rendered nicely. The weapons 
 are designed majestically and the atmosphere, which is somewhat darker than the previous games, 
 depicts the authenticity of a war-torn scenario.
  (SOUND)
  In a war game, sound is vital in captivating players. The battle sounds, screams, gunfire, flames, 
 destruction are music in their won right. The sound of armageddon is sheer beauty. When I played 
 this game, I really thought that I was totally inside the game itself, warped into cyber space! 
 Seriously, though this has one of the greatest gameplay sounds ever incorporated in a game. Hook 
 it up to your surround sound system. There's good voice acting, too. The characters in this game 
 are extremely serious in rendering the voices. You would'nt know that a joke was said unless you 
 read the subtitles. Scary, eh? There's a generous amount music to heighten the sense of nostagia.
 
  (GAMEPLAY)
  OK, so this is the reason why we play games in the first place. HOW the game is played. COD4 is 
 like any other FPS. Swear! It's shoot and shoot and laugh at the bloodied figures of thy enemies! 
 But this kind of shooting puts more art to it. The opening scene after the tutorial part lets you 
 silently kill people in a tanker. Well, on with the silenced weapons, right? But the thing is that 
 the game musters a new form of action that's unique. It's like shooting before the enemy sees you, 
 and it's all in the bag. The pace of the game is nicely done. There's no lagging moments here. 
 Every sequence in this game is adrenaline-packed. It's very exhilerating. The only weakness in 
 this game is though it's a fast-paced game, you as a player would be affronted by the sheer short 
 duration of the game itself, in single player. One could finish this game in 4-5 hours in normal 
 difficulty. But it regains its turgor in multiplayer. You'd be playing for countless hours with 
 the multiplayer package that this game offers, with a lot of game modes, features, etc. As always 
 you get to play on LAN or online. 
  (OVERALL)
  This game marks history in the FPS genre. With fluid graphics, superb gameplay, breathtaking sounds 
 and a satisfying story, COD4 will stay in the hearts of gamers for a long time. Though a little 
 on the short side on single player, stack up on multiplayer for hours/days/weeks/months of addictive 
 gameplay. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Daniel1130113
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 9, 2008 4:55 pm PT
Review:  COD 4 is one of the best FPS games I have ever played, though It doesn't deserve a 10. That is 
 because of the single player, it's very short, took me about five days to pass it. and after that, 
 I passed it on a higher difficulty then, I entered Multi player. Multi player is very accecible 
 and great. It has a basic principle: Go up in rank to unlock weapons and perks for you to use in 
 create-a-class. Creat-a-class is basically the most important tool you have. In it hou decide which 
 weapons to use and with what attachments. Also, it let's you choose your pistol and atachment and 
 special grenade. The game allows you to choose three abilities or "perks". And each perk has a 
 different use. One gives you c4s, another one gives you more health and another makes your bullets 
 more powerfull These are just one of each type. The various multi player modes makes it easy for 
 you to adapt to which ever mode you like. Also the extensive maps makes it different and tactis 
 may save your skin. 
  
  In conclusion: Call of Duty 4 is one of the best FPS games out in the market. It's single player 
 is very entertaining but very short. And you can jump right into the multi player action and wreack 
 havoc with the different weapons.
  
  Post your ideas! Peace, Through, Power!-Kane 
::::::

::::::
UserName: joel_chtri
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 9, 2008 6:41 am PT
Review:  i have played every call of duty from COD 1 to 4. the best in this is certainly the 4th because, 
 not only it has great graphics and sounds but also the story, the modern environment with modern 
 weapons is very funnnnn to play. unlike its previous games, it does not have any cutscenes. cutscenes 
 haave been made like real talking where we can listen and also move out mouse where we like to 
 watch. the only part which I didn't like was the short campaign. COD 1, 2, and 3 all had much to 
 play, but 4 has not much to play. it will finish in about 5-10 hours for any gamer. i hope another 
 game in this series has lot to play. i love the way there is no health bar. cause we dont have 
 to search for health kits. instead if we take cover 4 sometime it automaticcally restores it health. 
 the two forces (SAS n USMC) r fun to pay including sneaking missions of captain price.
  
  i think cod4
  gameplay: 10
  graphics: 10
  sound: 9.5
  story: 9.5
  actual score: 9.8 
::::::

::::::
UserName: teh_werry_man
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 6, 2008 7:30 pm PT
Review:  I must admit, when I first heard about Call of Duty 4, and how it was going "modern", I was highly 
 dissapointed. But after trying it out at a friends house, i must say my view has changed 180 degrees!!
 
  
  COD4 is simply amazing. The SP is fun, the graphics are really nice, but where COD4 shines is the 
 multiplayer.
  
  COD4 has the most addicitve MP since SOF2 (which had amazing MP, dont let anyone tell you other 
 wise) . What really keeps you coming back is the amount of stuff to unlock. As you kill people and 
 complete objectives, you level up in rank. This will unlock new weapons, add-ons, and, the new 
 thing, perks. Perks are basically "powerups" that can change the tide of the battle. One example 
 is the perk martyrdon. WHen you die, you immediately drop a live grenade, killing all in radius. 
 This can be very useful if there is someone using only knife kills. These perks change the way 
 the game is played, ensuring that no two online matches are ever the same.
  
  Unlike the console versions, however, the PC version of COD4 lacks one important thing. PRESTIGE. 
 In the console versions, when you reach level 55, you have the option of resetting your level back 
 to one and starting all over, but it gives you a symbol beside your GT that tells all you are PRO. 
 This, for some reason is NOT in the PC version.
  
  Basically, if you like online FPS action, get this game NOW! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rishadali
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 5, 2008 1:39 am PT
Review:  It is the best game i have played among the current lot including the Games of the Racing modes, 
 Highly Additive, The Game Play and the small mission goals keep you hooked for Hours, The music 
 is great and the game controls are organized and have been clustered in a easy handling way. The 
 Graphics are Great-be it the concreat chunks that come of the wall or the empty catriges falling 
 to the ground , The characters are so allied that the missions are not closed until you are involved 
 in it in some way, This gives a sence of acheivemt and keeps the gamer on for more .For a new gamer 
 like me , More than the technical details what actually keeps one person interested is the way 
 the game is packaged , It is Simple and easy .The Violence is mild and exciting with out being 
 of the gory nature which the shooter games normally are .Having played COD4 i am waiting for the 
 next installment, Probably would wait till infinity ward helms its return with COD6. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: delivery279
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 3, 2008 5:13 pm PT
Review:  OK, Here is one of the most popular first person shooter game of all times. When it make his first 
 appearance with Call Of Duty 1, it's work fine in the Single Player, but in Multi Player broke 
 every illusion of the players, when United Offensive, the Expansion Pack flowed from the programmers, 
 with those amassing news about using tanks, artillery and ships everyone want to play it.
  Call Of Duty 2, comes with new graphics, better and faster combat, and illuminates the mind of 
 the player with the Multi Player game styles, although the game was ranked a bitter low because 
 the vehicles was missed.
  Call Of Duty 3 I will leave it away because it was not for the PC, and yes we are reading this 
 on it.
  Now COD4: Modern Warfare comes with some news to leave you frizzes a while. The innovation in fighting 
 on the Arabic and Russian field, with modern weapons and technology is an amassing entertainment 
 for the player. The new models used in the games are really realistic, and the game play has a 
 some mini-games like shoot from trucks, and airplanes, etc. that are great in the game.
  COD4 comes to everyone with a flash Multi Player game, with new game plays and a great way to rank 
 the player. The guys of Activision propose us to make a mix with a Roll Playing Game with a First 
 Person Shooter... but wait, don't close this web page, it's not what you think, with Roll Playing 
 Game I mean, you are ranked with level, you can model your weapon, and you can also make your own 
 warrior class.
  Well coming to a finish, COD4 is a great game, I personally recommended to play it, it's almost 
 the best first person shooter of all times, but some things must be fixed fo the next Call Of Duty 
 (And YES Activision people, that's for you! WE WANT CALL OF DUTY 5!) The bad of the game is that 
 does not run with DirectX 10, and that's a really pity because it would be better then, also the 
 game don't have some things that they brothers has, like the movement and realistic of the objects 
 of the nature, like plants, grass, etc.
  I hope you enjoy this great game.
  
  Best Regards
  
  Fernando Pita 
::::::

::::::
UserName: antipunt1
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 3, 2008 2:50 am PT
Review:  Rating call of duty 4 is like a piece of cake. This game is too solid in every way. It's short 
 and sweet (in a portal-like fashion) , and it's authentic in delivery and design.
  
  The story is compelling and well written, and your squad-mates are extremely likable. Not to mention 
 the game looks fantastic. There is nothing really not to like. Call of Duty 4 is your winner FPS. 
 Yes the single player campaign is short, but there's nothing wrong with that if it can pull of 
 dynamite in that short amount of time.
  
  Perhaps the reason why COD4 isn't rated higher than a 9 is because, though its awesome, it doesn't 
 quite reach 'epic-status'. I'm not too sure why, it goes through feel. I enjoyed this game to bits, 
 but it didn't strike me as being epic in proportion. That's, however, by no means saying this game 
 wasn't grand. It was, and clear 'flaws' are virtually nonpresent 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Shadowhawk000
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 3, 2008 1:40 am PT
Review:  This is a Highly Addictive and Intense FPS with a Gripping Single player Campaign which has a great 
 storyline although it is short and longer it would of got boring and would of taken the shine of 
 this otherwise magnificent FPS. The Multiplayer is the main part of the game however with Tons of 
 Challenges and Dozens of Unlocks which will keep you going for a long time as you work your way 
 to 100%! The Gameplay is Fast and Intense which is how a FPS should be and Graphics wise still 
 looks quite nice although it is starting to show its age when you look at games like Crysis and 
 Farcry 2. It will also run on a Majority of Computers... the only down side is that i cant place 
 this enough :D.... and i would of like a more destuctable environment.... To sum it up anyone should 
 get this game whether your a first time FPS player or a Veteran FPS player! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: H17OK1
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 2, 2008 8:55 pm PT
Review:  DO you want a good looking game? Do you want to shoot for real in everything that move? This is 
 the game...
  
  The AI could be better, but in veteran mode, gives a hard time.
  
  lots and lots of weapon, great weapons to blow everything.
  
  the action is what this game 
 is all about. Veteran mode and multiplayer will give you the best shooting experience ever.
  
  the single player can be short, but you will play again and you will spent all your free time 
 to play the multiplayer again and again.
  
  has a good story and very dinamic, is about the last hours to get the bad guys.
  
  The SAS/Mariners 
 can be good, but would be better to choose one of them or even choose sides.
  
  The bad thing, it has no vehicles to use in multiplayer and the phsics are not so great as should 
 be for those new games.
  
  The multiplayer is based on level, but is short and has no big deal, only to get new weapons. And 
 you cant make your own carachter. But you wont care about that because is really fun.
  
  The best shooting game easy! It can be as good as crysis in graphics but is far more fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jambickie
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 2, 2008 12:51 pm PT
Review:  Wow call of duty has to be one of the best series of fps's ever. It's good the series finally moved 
 away from world war 2. The games graphics are amazing and makes the carnage realistic. The campaign 
 is fantastic though short it is still top notch. The campaign provides about five hours of qualtiy 
 fast paced action. The story is quite good aswell except from the ending. I was starting to get 
 attached to the squad but then all of them die in the last mission. One different thing is that 
 you have alot less health and staying in the open for than 3 seconds usually gets you killed. Then 
 there is the multiplayer, which has to best multiplayer in the series. Creating your own class 
 is really awesome and having all the upgrades for your character is even better. All in all call 
 of duty four is a must buy because it's simply fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: str8_baller
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 2, 2008 11:13 am PT
Review:  When you think of Call of Duty, what you usually think of is an First Person Shooting game based 
 on past world wars filled with set pieces and explosive action.
  The people at Infinity Ward have continued this exciting gameplay and taken it to a new level, 
 making a brave new revolutionary step and based their game around present day warfare and exceeded 
 our expectations with this unbelievable game.
  
  Reading recent reviews of the game, I hear them complain about its short single player. The point 
 is that so much detail and variety has been put into each mission that the time just flies by because 
 of the amount of fun to be had. Theres so much atmosphere and intensity. You get to play as a US 
 Marine, British SAS, a Sniper in bush camouflage, gunner on a gunship, rescue missions. There are 
 also numerous weapons to use such as assault rifles like the Ak47 and the M16, Submachine guns 
 like the uzi and mp5, pistols, Shotguns, light machine guns, sniper rifles, explosives such as 
 grenades, c4 and flashbangs and a melee weapon as standard. You even come across guard dogs prepared 
 to shred you to bits if you dont act quick. Its just as deep as it can get.
  
  The way the Story is delivered is just amazing with full speech and subtitles, Stellar presentation 
 and exciting sound. Lots of Replay value in that the Achievement system has been tailored around 
 the single player, enticing or even daring you to complete the single player under certain conditions 
 such as veteran difficulty etc. 
  
  All of this is also a great way to prepare you for Multiplayer which is where the fun never ends 
 and the action can be immense. This is a game where you need xbox live to get full enjoyment out 
 of this game. You get the chance to play with and against people of different skill levels from 
 all over the world as your character develops new skills and weaponry the more you play, giving 
 you ample reason to keep playing.
  
  The game is just amazing in its entirety. Well worth buying. If you enjoy intense, heart pumping 
 action then you should buy this.
  
  Graphics 10
  Sound 10
  Story 9
  Multiplayer 10
  Value for money 10
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dante_94
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 13, 2008 7:21 am PT
Review:  Call of Duty 4 is undoubtedly, one of the best games ever created. This game is full of action, 
 from Russia to the Middle East, this game is mind blowing.
  
  Firstly, this game has impressive graphics, amazing visuals and one of the most photorealistic 
 games. Simply top notch graphics. Of course, to even play this game, you need a good computer and 
 a good graphics card.
  
  The single player campaign of CoD4 is brilliant as well. You take control of several characters 
 in the game. One of them being a TV operator onboard a AC-130 and blasting foes from air. The experience 
 is simply amazing. When you play it, you really feel like your in the game. Sadly, the campaign 
 only last for about 5 hours.
  
  Multiplayer in this game is also top notch. There is plenty of modes in this game including team 
 deathmatch, deathmatchand many more.
  
  In multiplayer, you can customize your own character by giving it what weapons you want and what 
 perks you want. You can unlock various weapons leveling up by earning exp points from killing players, 
 defending a headquarters and many other ways.
  
  In conclusion, this game is awesome. A must buy for FPS fans. Its worth your money. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Zantozzzz
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 30, 2008 3:48 pm PT
Review:  Well as we see the intro we can see that this game is based on the actual global conflicts about 
 nuclear power, terrorism, etc.
  
  As in others Call of Duty we are just one soldier more against the enemy. But this time there are 
 just two campaigns: The S. A. S campaign and the U. S Army campaign.
  
  As another soldier in the S. A. S forces or the U. S Army forces we cannot give orders to our teammates 
 but their movement will depend of the positions we take. In this game we can see the latest weapons 
 used in the actual wars, we can use the M4A1, with a grenade launcher and a red dot, we can use 
 the Javelin, an anti-armor weapon, the AK47, and RPG and almost all the actual weapons.
  The storyline is solid, it if was a movie I would like to watch it. The storyline is based in actual 
 global conflicts but the war is still fiction.
  About the enemy artificial intelligence, it is very well done, if we hide near them they will try 
 to find a way to shoot us, and if they run out of ammo they will draw their pistols.
  One of the more important details here are that we can get safe cover just behind a wall or metal 
 barrels. Because the bullets can get through metal sheets, wood sheets, wood boxes and wood walls.
 
  
  Well in my opinion it is a revolutionary game because this is not about WWII, and they used the 
 actual global conflicts as the storyline. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sexyman123abc
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 29, 2008 4:55 pm PT
Review:  hey if you are decideing between call of duty 4 or battel field 1942 call of duty 4 a million times 
 yeas on a scale from 1-100 0 000 000 000 0 000 00000 000 this game is a 999999 999 99 999 9999 
 99 9999999 9999 999 999 999999999999 999999999999 99 99 999 9 99999 999 99 99 999999 9999999999999 
 9999999999999 99999999 999999 9999 9999 9999 99999 9999 9999 99999 999 99 999 99. this is because 
 it has awesome graphics. awesome game play. finaly you get to custumize your wepons and it is the 
 best multti player game ever. . ..... .... .... ..... ..... ...... ..... ..... ..... .... .... 
 .... . .. .. . .. ... .. ..... .......... .. ..... .... .... .... .... ..... ...... ...... ..... 
 . .... ...... . .. . ....... .... ........... ..... .... ...... ..... ...... .. . .. . . ........ 
 ...... .... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wado-karate
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 29, 2008 3:39 pm PT
Review:  After having to wait months so I could upgrade my PC and be able to play this game, I found it 
 was worth the wait. 
  
  Singleplayer: The singleplayer story is just epic. The typical modern-day shooter about Russians, 
 Terrorists and nuclear weapons was presentated and made so well by the guys at IW that this average 
 story is something epic. Shame it was so short...
  
  Multiplayer: Perhaps some of the best multiplayer ever. Ranks, unlockables, upgrades, perks, they 
 make the multiplayer experience wonderful. A few things that are bad though. Grenade spam, a lot 
 of it. Bad spawn system, spawning with enemies isn't fun. And occasionally the game feels unbalanced 
 with perks.
  
  Sound/Graphics: Call of Duty 4 looks beautiful, period. Whether you're in the Middle East or a 
 farm in Russia the game looks amazing. The sound is also good, but its nothing ground breaking.
 
  
  Gameplay: The controls are tight and responsive although you have apply them. There is a shoot-through-cover 
 mechanic that I found interesting though annoying sometimes.
  
  Conclusion: If you're a fan of FPS or Call of Duty this game is a must have. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: highwayman2000
Rating: 6
Date: Sep 29, 2008 1:02 am PT
Review:  It's a war game, you play a SAS operative - Soap to US Marine soldier under Warpig ( just the two 
 ) sent out to cleanse a revolt.
  
  The revolt poses a serious threat to the western hemisphere and you must settle the revolt before 
 its too late!
  
  The graphics, I think, it the closest contender to Crysis - even if Far Cry 2 is in the horizon. 
 But the storyline doesn't stand the test of time at all.
  
  If the developers managed to work more deservingly with the storyline - I suppose this game would 
 not only being recreational but appears too real to imagine!
  
  If I was to herald about this game has I am doing now, I am very disappointed about the storyline 
 has it doesn't stand the test of time - like I said earlier ( except being Roberto Carlos, a famous 
 football player in the Americas agrees along the lines - trust me ) .
  
  Yes its fun yet I am sure there are better games than this ie) Mafia. In terms of FPS - FEAR.
 
  
  I think the developers thought they could get away with the latest graphics cards has not so many 
 games compete in terms of visuals.
  
  They should stick to World War games where you fight the Japs or, by George, the German Aryans!
 
  
  Has you may have notice, this game gets one of my lowest scores to date ( even lower than Scarface 
 - and it had a slow slow story what built up ) .
  
  I've notice alot of folks out there have high regards to the game - yet if you look closely at 
 the storyline -its not what is cracked up to be. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: uyjr
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 26, 2008 11:07 am PT
Review:  They say war is hell. Infinity Ward's Call of Duty 4: Modern Warfare takes you to the very depths 
 of Hades. The long-awaited COD4, IW's follow-up to the excellent Call of Duty 2, is a jarring, 
 intense, and gripping take on war in the new millennia. The enemies are smarter, the weapons are 
 deadlier, and the grenades all too plentiful. COD4 will shake loose your fillings and have you 
 begging for more.
  
  Infinity Ward was born out of the success of retelling some of the greatest battles in World War 
 II. The company has become synonymous with the virtual beach at Normandy. So it was quite a gamble 
 to break from the comfort zone of Nazi-occupied Europe and leap into present day. The gamble paid 
 off. Ghost Recon, Rainbow Six, and every other military-based shooter has been put on notice. There 
 is a new standard to judge this sub-genre and it is Call of Duty 4.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: therealtorb
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 25, 2008 10:59 pm PT
Review:  
  
  The single-player experience in Call of Duty 4 is a rollercoaster, plain and simple. You are on 
 rails, so to speak, the entire time, never truly choosing your own course. Sure, there may be a 
 section of a level or two where you are allowed to choose one of two or three objectives to shoot 
 for first, but your decisions as a player are wholly inconsequential and have no impact on the 
 gameplay. This, for me, was a beautiful thing. Yes, I am aware that is completely goes against 
 everything the gaming community is telling you that you must have right now (coughsandboxcough) , 
 but it's wonderful.
  
  The reason behind this is simple: cinematic experience. The entire time I was playing this game 
 I couldn't help but feel like I was in a really awesome war movie. There are scripted sequences 
 in this game, just like every other Call of Duty, that simply blew me away. Intense helicopter 
 crashes and explosions and tanks and sniping segments, the list goes on. In short, the game makes 
 you feel hardcore. (Unless you're playing on Veteran, the hardest difficulty, like I did. It made 
 me feel like a baby most of the time.)
  
  Gameplay is finely-tuned and sweet to control. Responsive, satisfying gunplay is the name of the 
 game, and Call of Duty 4 shines. The guns feel powerful, effective, and gratifying as they stop 
 enemies in their tracks. The gun models look like what you'd expect, but the graphics in general 
 are stunning. Animations especially stand out within the confines of the game. Everything is very 
 fluid and believable, sucking the player into the war. Allies open doors slowly to peer in, jump 
 barriers realistically and look like human beings. It all feels right.
  
  The direction the developers took in the sound department also contributes heavily to the believability 
 of the game. Comm chatter sounds great and authentic. Your superiors will tell you when a room 
 has been cleared and when they are being fired upon, among other things. The music especially stands 
 out. One level in particular rises to the top in my memory. You are a sniper who has been coupled 
 with another sniper for an assassination mission (Most agree this is the coolest mission in the 
 game) . You're sneaking through and around the enemy, when all of a sudden you have to bolt to avoid 
 being spotted. The drums pick up dramatically and form a beat that just gave me chill bumps. It 
 was incredible. The score is top-notch, sound effects beat and pounded through my speakers, and 
 it all really heightens the experience.
  
  Singleplayer, however, is not the only place this game shines. Multiplayer is robust and addicting. 
 There are a plethora of game modes to choose from, but the trick is everything must be unlocked 
 to play. The process is simple and fun. You kill things, you get points, you level, you unlock, 
 rinse, repeat, have fun. Not much more to it, but it is extremely well-executed. The maps are fun 
 and fast-paced. There's so much more that can be said, but really, it's just as great as the single-player.
 
  
  In summary, Call of Duty 4 is a game every fan of the genre should play. There are no real complaints 
 to be had. The only reason I didn't give this a perfect score is simply because I played through 
 it on Veteran. Dying 100 times per level is a bit of a damper on the fun factor, but I suppose 
 that is my fault for choosing it. Games need to figure out how to be challenging without being 
 cheap. Call of Duty fails here, but it is neither significant nor glaring. It shines stunningly 
 in every single other facet. This game is truly a gem. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mhofever
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 25, 2008 7:37 am PT
Review:  Call Of Duty 4 : Modern Warfare is one of the greatest First Person Shooters of our time. There 
 is nothing like it than packed action at every turn of the story. I guarantee you will not be bored 
 , not one single bit.
  
  First of all, I like to say how amazing the visuals are, easily one of the most photorealistic 
 games. Every single detail is accounted for, especially the clothing. When you start playing Call 
 of Duty 4, you will see how polished the graphics are. Top notch, probably half the time you are 
 appreciating how good the visuals are ( Well, I did that the first time I played it) .
  
  IF that isn't enough, wait till you get to the battlefield. The Single-Player offers a gripping 
 storyline, one more based on a non-fiction story, like a Tom Clancy novel. Once you get into the 
 game, there will be something to be done at every part of the game. 
  
  You will hardly come across any boring and reptitive game play. The A. I are what make the single 
 player very fun. They feel more realistic rather than just A. I's being placed in the game and their 
 character just comes to life.
  
  But the best part of Call of Duty 4 has got to be the Multi-player, which offers a variety of game 
 modes and you can even customize your own game modes when running a dedicated server.
  
  The multi-player also introduces a new form of leveling that's new to the first person shooter. 
 The maximum level you get to is 55 and on the way, you unlock customizable weapons and perks that 
 would suite to your advantage.
  
  If you are a 360/PC/PS3 gamer and if you haven't picked up Call Of Duty 4 yet, by all means, get 
 it because it is going to blow you away. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: The-Lich-King
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 23, 2008 2:45 pm PT
Review:  Graphics: 8
  Sounds: 8
  Gameplay: 10
  Multiplayer: 10
  Storyline: 9
  Impression: 9
  
  Score: 9 (9 real)
  
  I have always had great reservations about the Call of Duty series. 
 To be honest, despite what people have told me, it still always seemed like Medal of Honour with 
 a different name, and WWII shooters are as common these days as whores in a red light district. 
 However, CoD4 has moved the series into the modern day, giving me no choice but to see what all 
 the fuss was about.
  
  First off, the gameplay in CoD4 is truly brilliant. It follows the simple, tried and true FPS format, 
 though somehow it seems to transcend all others. The action is intense and challenging, with many 
 enemies who use cover intelligently and fight back aggressively. Even in the more open environments, 
 it feels hot and heavy, and you truly feel the danger. The controls are tight and responsive (basically 
 standard FPS) , though if I can make a small criticism, taking bullets makes your aim jerk massively 
 so you have no hope in hell of firing back without moving out of the line of fire. The difficulty 
 can be a little punishing at times, though that could be because I insist on playing on the hard 
 difficulty setting. There are a couple of sections where you take control of the gunner of various 
 vehicles, which functions like a rail shooter section. These sections are usually much easier, 
 but it is undeniably fun to watch the little ant-people fly like ragdolls as you blast them with 
 rockets from a helicopter. These sections are well-placed and uncommon enough to be nice little 
 breaks from the run-and-gun action. It would also have been nice for the guns to be a bit more 
 differentiated. Each class of gun (eg. rifles, shotguns, snipers etc.) are all pretty much exactly 
 the same (M4s, G3s, AKs are basically the same) . Overall though, the gameplay is truly excellent, 
 with only the most minor criticisms to be made.
  
  One of the things that truly struck me about this game was the way that it told its story. Though 
 the story itself wasn't that impressive in itself, basically involving Arab insurgents (in a tactfully 
 unnamed Middle Eastern country that the US is invading) , Russian nationalists (who look a lot like 
 Soviets with hammer and sickle badges) , and the theft of nuclear weapons. You play as several different 
 protagonists throughout the game, the two main ones being a British SAS trooper (fighting mostly 
 in Russia) and a US Marine (in the Middle East) . However, the story is told quite clearly through 
 briefings in the loading screens and you occasionally jump into other people's heads to see important 
 events unfold. A good example of this is near the start when you briefly become the former president 
 of Unknownistan as he is beaten, dragged to a car, driven through the streets as the revolutionaries 
 murder his soldiers and citizens indiscriminately, before being dragged into a courtyard, tied 
 to a pole and shot through the head by the rebel leader. However, the best moment of all is when 
 you take control of a soldier dying of radiation sickness following a nuclear explosion, crawling 
 from the ruins of his helicopter and trying to stay conscious before collapsing and letting the 
 white light engulf you. This cold and pessimistic storytelling style is what I loved, especially 
 as the US forces end up screwing things up pretty badly by their gung-ho strategies, with the SAS 
 running about picking up the pieces. However, the ending is a bit disappointing; it is pretty sudden 
 and doesn't really clear up what happens to the hordes of closing enemies, but your allies pop 
 up to save the survivors. One flaw I found with the story is that the characters are particularly 
 one-dimensional and stereotypical. For example, it continues to perpetuate the stereotype that 
 all British people speak with cockney accents, and then there is the token black Marine who shamelessly 
 raps about the game over the end credits (seriously, I'm not joking) . The single-player campaign 
 has also been criticised for being too short, but I disagree. Admittedly it is only maybe 8 hours 
 long, but when you actually play through it, you don't notice that. The story, whilst being fairly 
 lacklustre, is fast-paced and the missions are full of action. Any attempt to make the single-player 
 longer would've been pointless and could have spoiled its sublime feeling.
  
  Graphically this game is not particularly outstanding; it is up to the usual standards of what 
 we have come to expect of modern games. The frame-rate does seem to bog down in a couple of specific 
 places on my PC, though that could just be my computer, as none of my friends have complained of 
 such things. The sound is nothing less than we would expect, apart from the slightly annoying accents.
 
  
  Multiplayer is where you will really lose hours and hours of your life. Most actual matches are 
 pretty basic deathmatch and so on, but the real appeal is the XP system. Your character gains experience 
 points for kills, assists and so on, and gaining experience points means you level up, giving you 
 access to "better" guns (though as we've established, not much better) and, more importantly, more 
 extra perks. These are fun little abilities that you choose before a match that give you little 
 advantages that range from extra health or sprint to last stand (so when you die you get a couple 
 of seconds of lying on the ground with you pistol to take your final revenge) to martyrdom (that 
 drops a frag grenade on your corpse when you die) . The great thing about these perks is that almost 
 all of them are useful and worth considering at least, but none are hideously unbalancing, even 
 the highest level ones. Additionally you can try to complete challenges, which are little objectives 
 like make 50 headshots or shoot 300 guys using an M4. Whilst these are pretty simple, they take 
 a while and give out lots of XP points, as well as providing something for all you obsessive-compulsive 
 achievement guzzling guys out there. All in all, multiplayer is a good way to sit down at 8:00 
 pm and then look at the clock and wonder how it got to 3:00 am so quickly.
  
  Overall, Call of Duty 4 is a shining example of how to make an FPS. It falls short of perfection 
 on only a few minor issues, namely samey weaponry, lacklustre storyline (though it is told well) , 
 maybe slightly too difficult on harder settings, and a few minor graphical issues. I say bring 
 on more of the same in CoD 5, and other game devs take heed of this truly great game.
  
  The Good:
  -everything a Modern FPS should have
  -multiplayer
  
  The Bad:
  -graphically 
 this game is not particularly outstanding; it is up to the usual standards of what we have come 
 to expect of modern games
  -some annoying sounds (or was it me?)
  -short campaign 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nofuss12
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 21, 2008 10:04 am PT
Review:  In this game the Call of Duty series is now pulling away from WWII. This game takes you to present 
 times to fight agains Ultranationlists in Russia and Azerbaijan and Khaled Al-Asad's terrorist 
 group in Saudi Arabia. The Graphics are GREAT and the game play is so realistic. If only the single 
 player was longer. I really like the single player in all the COD games. I hope World at War will 
 have a longer one. But the multi player really shines in this game. It is almost like an rpg first 
 person shooter. You can advance to level 55 and gain all these new weapons and skills. It almost 
 seems like it has a World of Warcraft feel because of that EXP bar on the bottom.
  ________ ____ ____ ________ _____ __________ ______ ________ _____ ___________ _____ ________ _______________ 
 ___________ _______ _________ ______ _______ ______ _____ ______ ___________ _________________ 
 ______ _______ ________________ ___________ ______ _____ _____ ________ ____ __________ _____ ________ 
 _______ 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ayasdutta
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 20, 2008 7:10 pm PT
Review:  Very Othentic, Intresting, Dynamic, With a great soundtrack! Within two sessions of the game i 
 got it over in 1 less class then the highest, couldn't stop play it till the end.
  
  Since the first minute you're feeling the atmosphere,
  I like it in COD series that you don't 
 play the levels yourself, there is always an attraction with another characters which is so cool, 
 it works just perfect.
  
  The story is dragging you to keep shooting,
  continue with the levels, I won't tell you about the levels themselves there are lots of surprises.
 
  
  One very nice thing is that a main character got killed in the middle, and the A-synchronic level 
 loadings while watching the movies between each level is brilliant.
  
  Worked just lovely on my HD4870 card,
  I've installed the latest patch (1.7)
  and it worked 
 so smooth on the highest details.
  
  A good end, Very dynamic and intresting game.
  Suggest you to go play it over.
  
  Thanks Developers. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: souranply
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 20, 2008 9:50 am PT
Review:  
  The Call of Duty series must be the best FPS ever. Its awesome graphics, gameplay and realism are 
 of the highest standard. All the Call of duty games, so far have taken place in World War 2, but 
 the developers decided that the Nazis needed a break. Call of Duty 4 takes place in the present 
 day; you play as the British and the Americans through out the campaign. The game is very short 
 but it is an awesome and dramatic experience. The game also includes one of the best multiplayer 
 modes ever. You start by picking a team and a class. While you fight, you gain experience. If you 
 get sufficient experience you gain a rank. The higher the rank you are, the more classes and weapons 
 become available. You can also design your own classes. So, in short, GET THIS GAME.
  
  Bottom line:
  Good: Gameplay, Story, Graphics, Multiplayer, Dramatic..
  Bad: Too short.
  
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mbouchey
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 15, 2008 11:53 am PT
Review:  I'm sure my reaction to this game is not going to be very different from most people's. The single 
 player, while very good, was far too short, and not as challenging as previous CoD games. The multiplayer, 
 however, is amazing and lives up to the series and then some.
  First the single player. Being the fourth installment of Call of Duty, much of my opinion of this 
 game is going to be based off of comparison with the previous two Call of Duty games for PC. You 
 may have noticed that I am not counting Call of Duty three. This is because
  1) It did not come out for PC (and I am rating the PC version of CoD4)
  2) It disgraced the name 
 of Call of Duty
  But this is for another review. In comparison to the previous games, the first thing I noticed 
 was that CoD4 only allowed you to play as a soldier from two campaigns instead of the usual three. 
 As a direct result of this, the campaign was very short. If you look in to it, you will see that 
 the campaings for the marines and for the SAS were comperable in length to the American and British 
 campaigns from the previous to Call of Duty games. What made the game so short was a lack of a 
 Russian campaign. I also think that this hole in the single player left many of the characters 
 you encountered throughout the game undeveloped, as well as leaving out some information from the 
 story. It would have been better, had a Russion campaign been included. Many people might say that 
 the Russians were the bad guys in this game, so it would not be expected to have a Russian campaign. 
 However, there were two seperate Russian factions, and it would not have been a stretch to add 
 a campaign for the faction fighting with the SAS troops. This would have added depth, and much 
 needed length to the single player campaign.
  Now that the bad stuff is out of the way, it is time for the good. Obviously the graphics in the 
 game are good. They will be outdated in a relatively short period of time, but they keep up with 
 similar games. This makes the single player that much more emersive. This is possibly one the best 
 ways to describe the CoD4 single player: emersive. From the very begining you feel an attachment 
 to your character that is unusual for a FPS game. Of course those of us who have played the entire 
 CoD franchise have come to expect this, as well as the attachment with the other characters who 
 show up in the game. CoD4 accomplishes this as well, with a very strong attachment, especially 
 for the characters in the SAS missions. The only exception to this are the characters from the 
 Russians with whome you are allied. Like other CoD games, there is a varying level of difficulty. 
 The easiest is very easy, and good for beginers, which is always a nice touch. On the other hand, 
 the hardest difficulty was not the difficulty I am used to as a CoD player. It is very hard by 
 the usual standards of shooters, but doesn't quite live up to the other CoD games for PC. The only 
 reason a short campaign is a bad thing is because it was so good, I didn't want it to end. There 
 are a ton of surprising turns in the story, that I didn't expect to see, even from a Call of Duty 
 game. In a franchise known for the unusual quality of telling a story in a shooter game, the story 
 told in CoD4 is possibly the best of them all.
  Now for multiplayer. In the past CoD multiplayer has always been very good. However, it has never 
 really been extremely inovative. There has always been something to make it stand out, but it has 
 never set a multiplayer standard for the industry. This time, it has. The introduction of customization 
 is completely new to the FPS genre. Shooters have had classes for a long time, and as a result, 
 your character was just a carbon copy of many of the other players online. Now, you can have a 
 character that is uniquely yours. Not only is your character at least a little bit different than 
 all the other characters playing, but it is taylord to your playing style as well. Between weapon 
 modifications and perks, you would be hard pressed to find two characters that are exactly alike. 
 I would have only made one change to the customization of the multiplayer game. I would have allowed 
 players to switch out perks for more gun modifications. For example, instead of a perk 2, a sniper 
 could, perhaps, add a silencer to their sniper rifle to keep from appearing on the radar (please 
 note that this example replaces UAV jammer with this weapon mod, so it would be a balanced and 
 difficult choice to make for a sniper) . This is just an example, or perhaps a person could have 
 no perks, but instead have a gun with a grenade launcher, a silencer, and a dot sight. Not that 
 this makes or breaks the game. That would simply be the cherry on top of an already amazing multiplayer. 
 Finally the multiplayer customization gives the game a re-playability. If you get tired of playing 
 with the same old stuff, switch it up. There are endless possibilities so it is very difficult 
 to get bored with the same old thing on multiplayer.
  Over all, the game gets a high rating because the only real problems lie in the short single player. 
 However, the sinlge player was very good while it lasted and the multiplayer gives the game immense 
 depth and re-playability.
  I would also like to apologize for any spelling erros as I don't like the new spell check system 
 for gamespot and I am too lazy to type this in Word before posting :)
  See you online - [asia] GunMetal 
::::::

::::::
UserName: B-STyLeR
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 15, 2008 10:49 am PT
Review:  Very Othentic, Intresting, Dynamic, With a great soundtrack! Within two sessions of the game i 
 got it over in 1 less class then the highest, couldn't stop play it till the end.
  
  Since the first minute you're feeling the atmosphere,
  I like it in COD series that you don't 
 play the levels yourself, there is always an attraction with another characters which is so cool, 
 it works just perfect.
  
  The story is dragging you to keep shooting,
  continue with the levels, I won't tell you about the levels themselves there are lots of surprises.
 
  
  One very nice thing is that a main character got killed in the middle, and the A-synchronic level 
 loadings while watching the movies between each level is brilliant.
  
  Worked just lovely on my HD4870 card,
  I've installed the latest patch (1.7)
  and it worked 
 so smooth on the highest details.
  
  A good end, Very dynamic and intresting game.
  Suggest you to go play it over.
  
  Thanks Developers. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Shorty_wTF
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 13, 2008 6:01 am PT
Review:  it`s a good game .. i like it because it`s very good shooter...... cool game and massacre ......... i 
 like guns and explosion. Its not like the game is rated +17. I think you can handle it. On the other 
 hand, if F-bombs are being dropped so that it disturbs others then yes. But come on, give people 
 a break, or at least a warning
  Its not like the game is rated +17. I think you can handle it. On the other hand, if F-bombs are 
 being Its not like the game is rated +17. I think you can handle Its not like the game is rated 
 +17. I think you can handle it. On the other hand, if F-bombs are being dropped so that it disturbs 
 others then yes. But come on, give people a break, or at least a warningIts not like the game is 
 rated +17. I think you can handle it. On the other hand, if F-bombs are being dropped so that it 
 disturbs others then yes. But come on, give people a break, or at least a warning
  Its not like the game is rated +17. I think you can handle it. On the other hand, if F-bombs are 
 being dropped so that it disturbs others then yes. But come on, give people a break, or at least 
 a warning
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lach0121
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 9, 2008 7:06 am PT
Review:  i give this game a 7.5, it is a good game, and im freaking happy that COD isnt revolving around 
 solely WWII anymore. that war has been overdone years ago in gaming.
  this game has a pretty good single player experience, it was fun, engaging (especially the sniper 
 level... awesome) as well as a very good multiplayer though the community for this game is lacking, 
 mostly kids that think they are the best, and complain about campers (which is a tactic not used 
 by the impatient, rambo style kids) but this game does suffer from the occasional cheater that 
 likes to get out of the map, and everything. but most fps games suffer from this to a certain extent.
 
  the weapons were ok, just i wish they would of made them more realistic and added some better 
 ones like the FAMAS and the SA-80, and maybe a SCAR, but oh well, i love that the bullets dont 
 stop on cardboard boxes in this game or Sheetrock walls... lol which is more realistic than most 
 games... though some of the perks were annoying and completely unrealistic like last stand (a .50 
 cal in the chest and they lay down and pull out their pistol lol i dont think so.) and martydom 
 which is annoying but not as annoying as last stand... all in all the game is good, and i put many 
 hours into this game. just wish that COD wasnt going back to WWII for WAW. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: woodyisgod
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 10, 2008 11:38 am PT
Review:  There really isn't too much to say about call of duty 4 that hasn't already been said before. The 
 visuals are stunning, the AI is challenging, the story was great, etc. The single player campaign 
 was interesting and exciting the entire way through with a lot of variety. The multiplayer experience 
 is jam packed with features and will keep you coming back for a very long time. Essentially this 
 is just an amazing experience from top to bottom.
  
  I suppose if I were to add anything to this game I would like control over weapon configuration 
 and equipment loadout. Don't get me wrong the variety of weapons already in the game are great. 
 I would just like the ability to choose whether or not to add a silencer, or scope, etc. 
  
  Really i couldn't find anything bad to say about call of duty so i had to just nitpick a little. 
 All in all i would say go out and get this game. You will not be dissappointed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ZiPPeRRuLeS
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 9, 2008 2:11 pm PT
Review:  I played through CoD2 when I got it with my graphics card. It was amazing and I wanted more. So 
 I bought CoD4 - and to my surprise it was even better. Granted, the singleplayer is a whole lot 
 shorter, but that doesn't really matter when it's this good. A clever mix of stealth and shoot 
 'em up gameplay with some nice twists in the gameplay makes this game probably the best singleplayer 
 shooter I played for a long time (still remembering GoldenEye as #1 :) )
  
  The multiplayer part different. Its shoot or be shot style of play really works for me. Unlike 
 most tactical shooters (guessing here ;) ) , you die almost instantly when spotted, so you need to 
 be fast and be familiar with the different maps - hiding places, where the nades land etc. Personally 
 I prefer the CS style gameplay that is "Search & Destroy", but there are like 5 different styles, 
 which include the standard death matches (team and solo) , headquaters - and ofc several mods if 
 you get bored :)
  
  Give it a shot, you won't regret it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Petorian_reside
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 8, 2008 11:04 pm PT
Review:  Call of Duty 4 is a game which will have you coming back to it again and again and again. Since 
 I picked it up on the day of it's release, I don't believe I have ever uninstalled it from my machine 
 (and that's a big deal in my book) .
  The sound design, as we've come to expect from Call of Duty games, throws you into the war zone, 
 chews you up with battlefield ambiance, the sound of bullets whizzing and striking nearby objects, 
 screams, explosions, and orders shouted above the din, and spits you out in a trembling mass. Well, 
 maybe that's a little dramatic, but suffice to say that the great sound quality we've come to expect 
 from the series makes a return to even more glorious heights in the sequel.
  The game looks fantastic. Character models are top notch, along with satisfying explosions and 
 overall great environments. With pock marked buildings galore, flickering fires in the night which 
 illuminate your squadmates and nearby objects, anti-aircraft fire which lights the sky in night 
 missions, and great animations, you're sure to find something in this game that pleases your eyes. 
 As a bonus, the added semi-ragdoll system makes it so clipping errors are much more rare than in 
 the previous games. Enemy models will collide with walls and objects, and respond accordingly. 
 These great visuals transfer to the multiplayer as well, so, you wont feel like the eye candy has 
 degraded nearly at all in moving from the campaign to multiplayer. There is little to be said- 
 On the surface, it's definitely a winner.
  But, does the polish and excellence of the visuals transfer to gameplay? I say, hell yes. It follows 
 the previous Call of Duty games in combat mechanics, except that it has replaced melee attacks 
 with individual weapons with a simple knife attack activated by the default "V" key. This is completely 
 deadly, so don't let other players get close to you. Since it is "Modern Combat," Infinity Ward 
 had to make their own story in the game. Basically, a powerful Middle Eastern warlord has teamed 
 up with a Russian warlord to engineer a coup in the Middle East and do bad things to the west. 
 You alternate between playing a U. S. Marine and an SAS officer in your attempt to stop the madness. 
 The story definitely feels modern, and is very well written, considering the devs previously just 
 used World War 2 as a simple vehicle for their games.
  The multiplayer shines through as a winner, and as what will ultimately keep you coming back. With 
 a persistent soldier system, you will actually rank up, gaining new "perks" for your soldier, along 
 with weapons. Experience points are gained by doing almost anything-killing enemies, calling in 
 air strikes, UAV scans, and helicopter support, or completing one of dozens of "challenges" laid 
 out for you. The great combat is fast, fun, and high stress. It's a blast. It comes with a variety 
 of modes, like Domination, Team Deathmatch, Free-for-All, and Search and Destroy. All of these 
 modes are good fun. My only knock against the multiplayer is the lag spikes I get when playing. 
 It is usually harmless, but can lead to frustrating deaths.
  Overall, Call of Duty 4 is a great package. While not revolutionizing the FPS genre, it is an example 
 of great multiplayer and fun gameplay which will keep you coming back for a while. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CoD_killeru
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 3, 2008 2:58 am PT
Review:  This game is a great show of the skill from the Activision guys. But, it has a problem: too short 
 single player campaign but although very addictive, like a drug =) )
  The campaign starts, of course, with the training. "F. N. G." is an easy to pass mission, but u need 
 to move quickly in the CQB test ( I made 22 secs :-P) . The next mission, "Crew Expandable", it's 
 an easy one: just kill some bad guys, recover the 2 laptops, and of course, survive. "The Coup". 
 No words, just watch.
  In my characteristic style, I'll make this review short, so you won't need to read a lot ) .
 
  Act I starts with the "Blackout", were you have to rescue Nikolai, the S. A. S. informant in the 
 Russian territory. You will find 2 laptops here (in the first house, and in the house were is Nikolai) . 
 "Charlie Don't Surf" is next: find Al-Asad (yeah, sure ) , and 3 laptops. "The Bog": save 
 the stranded Abrams and find the 2 laptops. "Hunted": escape to the save zone and find 2 more laptops. 
 "Death from Above!": cool mission, I died once ) . "War Pig": this is tough, but I think 
 u will made it; 3 laptops. "Shock and Awe": damn, another mission high in the sky ) ; 2 
 laptops. "Aftermath": watch how Sergeant Paul Jackson dies; you have the opportunity to see the 
 atomic mushroom . End of Act I.
  Act II: first is "Safehouse" were u will search Al-Asad in his secret hideout in Azerbaijan (the 
 end is very cool =) ) ; 2 laptops. The next one is my favorite "All Ghillied Up" rocks; 3 laptops 
 (the 2nd is funny) . "One Shot, One Kill" is a very tough mission but the fact that you can shot 
 Zakhaev in the nuts is awesome; 2 laptops. "Heat" is the hardest mission in the game (my opinion) . 
 "The Sins of the Father", another nice one damn that u can't kill Vladimir; 2 laptops. Act II 
 is over.
  Act III, the shortest part, starts with "Ultimatum": find Griggs and get to the 'war room', I think; 
 1 laptop. "All In" is the mission when u really get to rusky HQ; 2 laptops. "No Fighting in the 
 War Room": get to the comm. center and dismantle the bombs; 1 laptop. "Game Over": game over) 
 
  In the end you will play the Epilogue mission "Mile High Club". Just play it.
  Well, I don't have enough words to explain how cool is the MP. This idea with ranks, challenges 
 is awesome. Maybe we will play together sometime. ;)
  And, in the end, here's my verdict: GRAPHICS-10; SOUND-10; GAMEPLAY-10; INOVATION-10. OVERALL-10
 
  See ya at my next review; I think it will be for Medal of Honor: Airborne. ;)
  Cheers.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: asafs16
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 31, 2008 2:28 am PT
Review:  so i started to play call of duty 4... i dont know why everybody saying that the game has the best 
 graphic.. i played in the maximum and still the game dont look that awesome like people said.. 
 anyway
  
  the single player is really good to bad its short.. i mean i finished the game in 2 hours... the 
 game could have been a perfect 10 if not for the short single player... anyway the single player 
 is really good and has a really good story..
  
  the multiplayer is the best thing in COD 4 its way better than the singleplayer and its always 
 fun!! the multiplayer worth the playing...
  
  the sounds are really good... even awesome!!
  
  and what can i say more? call of duty is a 
 fantastic game just to bad that the single player is so damn short
  
  if you see this game dont think just buy it becuase even if you dont like the single you will love 
 the multiplayer mod.. COD 4 = buy it 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PalatialRegalia
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 28, 2008 11:56 pm PT
Review:  This game is by far the greatest in it's series. There is no doubt. The single player game is short, 
 it's estimated 5 hours.. on easy! crank up that level and play at your hardest it could take triple 
 that! There are stealth missions, sniper missions, and just some battlefield type missions. The 
 sound effects are mind-blowing. Every time you fire that weapon, you feel as if you're really there, 
 and its devastating. Explosions, firing guns, running, planes, speech, and just everything is truly 
 next generation realistic sounds that cannot be beat. Best thing is, is that this game goes online 
 in a second and you can play with your friends many different game types and this game just never 
 gets old. You will not stop playing. Also, a nice map selection, plenty guns, and perfect quality 
 detail. So that is the game summed up. stop reading this, and go buy it, now. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cdcrane27
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 28, 2008 3:24 pm PT
Review:  Tell you what... This game makes me appreciate the folks that do this stuff in real life even more. 
 This is probably the most intense game I've ever played, all things considered. Not only is there 
 a lot going on, as far as fighting goes, in any given situation, but there is an emotional response 
 that it can get from you. This game really got my pulse pounding, because the realism of it made 
 me want to really survive more than most games do. I was really relieved when I lived through a 
 level. And there were other times where I was left just feeling very proud to have been a part 
 of that team. There are others that it might get out of you, but I'm not going to say any more, 
 because I don't want to give anything away.
  Technically, this is also a very impressive game. The graphics are really impressive, and the physics 
 and AI seem very believable. A couple of shots might not kill a guy, but he'll end up on the ground 
 and shoot blindly at you as he tries to crawl away. That sort of thing keeps you on your toes, 
 even after you have taken someone down. That among everything else makes this into a game that 
 can really get into your head and make you want to see it to the end just to see what happens next. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xipotec
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 27, 2008 5:18 pm PT
Review:  As a long time fan of the COD franchise, I was concerned about the new direction they were going 
 , leaving our WWII era behind. After seeing the first screenshots my fears were put to rest.
  
  THE GOOD:
  This game is incrediblly detailed and very imersive. The graphics were right on 
 par with reality and it had an almost "too real" look to it. Smoke and explosions were a sight 
 to behold. 
  
  The AI was also a strong point. These enemies worked together , and man, were they serious!
  
 
  The story was very interesting as well. ONce again maybe too close to reality for me! I enjoyed 
 playing in mutiple characters. The deaths in the game were felt because the story made you FEEL 
 for the heros. That alone was a milestone.
  
  THE BAD:
  There is nothing worse to me than a heavly scripted game. This game smacked of scripting from the 
 start. There are ways to script a game without it LOOKING like it's scripted.
  
  Also it was way too linear, the fact that I could not scale a 3 foot fence was entirely annoying.
 
  
  I also did not like how the "bad guys" kept spawing out of nowhere. Where were these guys going 
 from. At least show them driving in , or parachuting or something. i actually caught guys appearing 
 in closets and allyways many times.
  
  Overall lots of fun, but the COD franchise will need a BIG update if the want to keep up with the 
 newer non-linear games.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: killfunkster
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 25, 2008 11:51 pm PT
Review:  good stuff,. jus hate vista and its retarded iw3mp crap,.. for multi.
  its kik in the balls! luv it jus hate vista and the probs with mutli player. but thas vista for 
 ya.... slipma  
 kik in the balls! luv it jus hate vista and the probs with mutli player. but thas vista for ya.... 
 slipma its kik in the balls! luv it jus hate vista and the probs with mutli player. but thas vista 
 for ya.... slipma its kik in the balls! luv it jus hate vista and the probs with mutli player. 
 but thas vista for ya.... slipmaits kik in the balls! luv it jus hate vista and the probs with 
 mutli player. but thas vista for ya.... slipma its kik in the balls! luv it jus hate vista and 
 the probs with mutli player. but thas vista for ya.... slipma its kik in the balls! luv it jus 
 hate vista and the probs with mutli player. but thas vista for ya.... slipma its kik in the balls! 
 luv it jus hate vista and the probs with mutli player. but thas vista for ya.... slipma 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RustyScrew
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 25, 2008 5:10 pm PT
Review:  The First Person Shooter genre of games has always been my favorite. Nothing can satisfy you more 
 then running into a room filled with bad dudes, the odds stacked against you, and yet gunning them 
 all down, and standing victorious. Well, maybe sex. The Call of Duty series has always captured 
 that feeling of being a bad ass dude the most. Call of Duty 4 Modern Warfare is no exception, standing 
 out as my favorite FPS of all time, and my favorite game of 2007.
  
  Modern Warfare's single player, while short, is possibly one of the greatest I have played. You 
 play through the perspectives of a British soldier and an American soldier in a conflict between 
 England, USA, Russia and rebels in the Middle East. At the beginning of the game, you play as Soap 
 McTavish, a soldier from the British SAS. You have to run a course, which determines which difficulty 
 level is right for you. The first actual mission you do, really sets the stage for the bad-assness 
 which is the rest of the game. You are airdropped onto a Russian ship to search for a nuclear warhead. 
 You can only escape with the manifest, after enemy MiGs start attacking the ship. Once you make 
 it out on the deck, the ship is sinking and is on an angle, and you jump onto the helicopter and 
 fly back to base. **** blows up, dudes die, and a lot of stuff happens in this short 6 hour story. 
 Although short, this is still one of my favorite stories ever in a game.
  
  The multiplayer is what kept me coming back to this game. I have sunk 188 hours into this game, 
 and that number gets higher with each passing day. You have a persistent character in this game, 
 which you can level up a total of 55 levels. As you play, you earn XP which levels you up. The 
 higher level you are, the more guns you get. You can earn XP by killing dudes, and doing challenges. 
 Challenges are like achievements on the Xbox 360, you do stuff weird **** and you get points. Well, 
 not all of it is weird ****.
  Each gun in the game has 2 challenges, one for kills and one for headshots. They are split into 
 3 portions; first you get twenty-five, then seventy-five, and lastly one hundred fifty. The kill 
 challenges let you unlock add ons for your gun, such as a red dot scope or a silencer. The headshot 
 challenges give your gun a camouflage pattern. If you max out all the challenges in a gun category, 
 you will unlock the golden camouflage, which makes the select weapon golden. It looks pretty awesome.
 
  There is lots multiplayer modes, ranging from your generic free for all and team deathmatch, to 
 some flag-capture ones like Domination and Headquarters. In Domination, there are 3 flags placed 
 around the map. Your team has to hold the flags to earn points. The points add up to a score total, 
 and whichever team reaches that goal first, wins. In Headquarters, there is a laptop set up in 
 a spot on the map. One of the teams has to capture it; when they do capture it, they have to hold 
 it for a specific amount of time. The catch here is that the team holding the laptop cannot respawn, 
 unless the time limit is reached, or it's taken over by the opposing team. Search & Destroy is 
 the equivalent of the de_ maps in the Counter-Strike series. There is a bomb, and bomb sites. You 
 have to plant the bomb, or kill all of the opposing team. Once you're dead, you can't respawn. 
 Sabotage is like Search & Destroy, instead of the bomb being limited to just one team, the bomb 
 is neutral, and you're working back and forth trying to plant the bomb on each others bomb sites.
 
  
  The game definitely looks very good. It uses a proprietary game engine, developed by Infinity Ward 
 themselves. The game engine has some really awesome stuff to it, like true world-dynamic lighting 
 and really cool looking depth of field effects. All of the character models look really high detail 
 and are animated very well. The houses look really awesome; never looks like 2 houses are the same, 
 almost never at least. The foliage, while low detail, is all bunched up together, which makes it 
 look really dense and realistic. Backgrounds are a bit more sketchy looking; if the side areas 
 of the level are not surrounded by trees or building so you don't see the actual background image, 
 it looks quite nice. The image itself, however, does not. It's low quality and grainy.
  The level designs are probably my favorite in any game. You can enter most of the buildings, and 
 they are placed so that you can over see the rest of the battle.
  
  Sound is also of really high quality. The voice acting provided sounds great, and suits all of 
 the characters. The soundtrack is composed by British composer Stephen Barton, who works a lot 
 with Harry Gregson-Williams. Harry also helped on the soundtrack; he produced the main theme. All 
 the guns sound like the gun you're shooting. Sound also plays a big part in gameplay; it really 
 helps in multiplayer, if you're hiding and hear footsteps coming, you can get ready to gun them 
 down.
  
  The game plays like any first person shooter. You got a gun, you point your gun at dudes, gun shoots 
 bullets, dudes drop, you move to the next area, more dudes to shoot. You will be in lots of different 
 locales through the game, but they're just filled with dudes to shoot in the face. The game doesn't 
 use the health bar system, lots of games don't these days, don't know why. Instead, if you get 
 shot, the screen gets redder and redder. You got to hide, and the red on the screen goes away, 
 and you're back in the fight. The AI in the singleplayer is good for the most part. They will help 
 you out and actually kill dudes, unlike the AI in the Medal of Honor series. Sometimes there are 
 times where the dude just doesn't follow you for some reason, and you have to restart the mission. 
 It can be a bit of a drag, but most of the missions are so fun you would want to do them over and 
 over.
  
  In conclusion, Call of Duty 4 is an amazing game that shouldn't be missed by anyone who has their 
 systems up to date for this generation. I will quote X-Play on this,"while it may not have revolutionized 
 the genre, it comes damn close to perfecting it." 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kamcyto
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 23, 2008 7:21 am PT
Review:  Call of Duty 4 is probably the best out of the Call of Duty series. With modern tactics and weaponry, 
 the game stands out from many other first-person-shooters. The singleplayer is just awesome. The 
 player takes the roles of a new recruit in the SAS and a Sergeant in the UNSC. These two characters 
 indirectly work together to prevent the villains from launching nuclear missiles, and they do so 
 in very fun and entertaining ways. There are parts in the game where you have to man turrets from 
 helicopters and other parts where you ride shotgun trying to shoot an enemy helicopter down. Singleplayer 
 is action-packed, played on realistic looking maps in Russia and the Middle East, and is probably 
 one of the best FPS stories, though it was a bit short. Playing through the single player on the 
 hardest difficulty is almost impossible.
  
  Multiplayer in Call of Duty 4 is great. With the Kill Cam, you can see where and how campers killed 
 you. The radar on your HUD is also very useful because enemies that make a lot of noise show up 
 as red dots on your radar. The perks system is a thumbs-up addition. Throughout your multiplayer 
 experience, you will level up (level cap is 55, but you can choose to start over as level 1 for 
 special goodies) and be able to unlock new weapons, additions to your guns like a scope or silencer, 
 and perks that allow you to sprint faster, do more damage, and much more. Another new thing is 
 the ability to call in UAV Scanners, Airstrikes, and Helicopters after you have killed 3, 5, and 
 7 enemies in a row. This encourages people to think before they shoot... or to just camp with a 
 sniper rifle. One thing that makes the multiplayer experience not as fun is the ability for players 
 to go prone. If you don't have a big TV, enemies that are prone often look like dead bodies. Enemies 
 with ghillie suits can't be spotted even if they are 1 meter away. Call of Duty 4 is realistic 
 ... maybe it is too realistic. 
  
  This is a great game for people who like action-packed singleplayer games. If you don't mind searching 
 that enemy sniper who is hiding in the tall grass with a ghillie suit, this is a great multiplayer 
 game for you, too. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: game_completor
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 22, 2008 10:34 pm PT
Review:  The latest installment of Call Of Duty is undoubtedly the best. The single player features varied 
 scenarios, from cargo ship missions, to forests, to middle eastern cities. 
  
  The story itself, much like the game play is very linear. There's no two ways about getting about 
 things. Most of the time, all you can do is run and gun, with a little suppress and flank tactics 
 thrown in the mix. Thankfully, the developers, Infinity Ward, have made shooting a baddie in the 
 face a rewarding experience. 
  
  The weapon animations are more solid than most FPS games. All the guns feel good to shoot. The 
 single player campaign spans many locations and settings, but is only 6 hours long. Still, somehow 
 it feels perfectly timed. Nothing is rushed, the maps are often huge, and the dialogue is well 
 paced and spoken. It's just very linear gaming. Meaning, you don't have to think, your just part 
 of a much bigger story. 
  
  The multi player component is as solid. Players start off with 3 beginner classes. From then onwards, 
 players get to use the default classes or use the 'create-a-class' option. As your experience increases, 
 your level does too. The player can then unlock weapons, weapon upgrades (scopes, silencers) , weapon 
 camouflages (patterns on your weapon to make them look unique) , and perks. The perks are really 
 interesting and useful. 
  
  Each player is allowed a primary weapon, secondary weapon, a frag grenade, a special grenade and 
 3 perks. Perks range from increased health, to increased bullet damage, faster reload animations, 
 extra ammunition. The great part about the multiplayer is that, no matter how much you've unlocked, 
 even a default class has the ability to kill you effectively. This is because all the perks and 
 weapon upgrades are extremely well balanced. 
  
  All in all, Call of Duty 4 delivers on all fronts. You won't get the same customization options 
 in the single player as you do in the multi player, but everything is balanced between quality 
 and quantity. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wwefan552
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 22, 2008 1:53 pm PT
Review:  call of duty 4 modern warfare is a multi platforn first person shooter. this game is one of the 
 best online multiplayers. if you dont have online this game will be boring to you unless you have 
 like 7 brothers. it ia based on the war where the americans verse the russians in war. the story 
 mode in this game is really fun and has a good story line to it. really the game cant be boring 
 to you. the only way it can be boring is if you have online. the story mode is amazing. you could 
 play this game over and over again until the next call of duty comes out which hopefully will be 
 better and you can get rid of call of duty 4. in call of duty 4 there is some boring game types 
 like search and destroy where if you die you cant come back untill the next round so you have to 
 be pretty good at the game. the final thing is you can make a clan and go into team deathmatch 
 with your clan and fight other clans. thats all i have to say about this game. GAME OF THE YEAR!!!!! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cmiquila
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 20, 2008 10:28 am PT
Review:  To say that I enjoyed COD4 single campaign very much will be an understatement The return of the 
 COD franchise to the PC certainly was worth the wait: a more polished interface; stunning and when 
 I say stunning I mean stunning visuals, particularly if you are running on a good graphics card; 
 a contemporary imaginary setting of a story that can easily be real; an aggressive and smart AI, 
 very difficult to fool on the highest difficulty level (good luck if you want to beat the game 
 at that level!) , all comprising an overall package full of action and fun. The only problem is 
 real as many have said: the game is way too short, and I mean ridiculously short, and to be honest 
 unnecessarily short. The story could have been much longer and deep, as there was plenty of material 
 to keep going, but it seems developers preferred to focus on the multiplayer side of the game, 
 leaving us the single campaigners hungry for more
  
  That's not to say you won't enjoy the game. Some levels are so good that you will find yourself 
 playing them again even if you already know what's coming and who and when someone's going to hit 
 you. In fact, I finished the game and surprised myself playing it entirely again after two weeks. 
 Is that good! Also, make sure to get all the 'enemy intelligence' (enemy laptops scattered around 
 levels) and then use the unlocked cheat modes to see the game from a very different perspective 
 and have even more fun playing it again
  
  In terms of stability and graphics, if you have a good GPU and at least an entry level gaming PC 
 with specifications that at least slightly exceeds the recommended requirements, you will see a 
 beautifully designed game with very realistic details and very stable, pretty well written and 
 coded. One level, when you play a camouflaged sniper making his way to its final target by avoiding 
 enemies or sometimes disposing of non-critical targets- looks incredibly real and full of details, 
 particularly the way shadows are displayed reflected on the camouflaged suit. They are one of the 
 best effects I've seen
  
  But its shortness is a big handicap if you consider the full price of the game. This is a game 
 that if played at the easy or normal difficulty level shouldn't take you more than a week or even 
 less to finish, playing about two hours a day. If you play at the two highest difficulty levels, 
 it may take longer because you'll have to re-spawn several times as you will be chased, shot at 
 with thousands of bullets and literally pelted with hand grenades at a rate of several times per 
 minute, so you won't survive. In fact, and this maybe another critic to the game, the hardest difficulty 
 level is so hard that it's just nonsense, even for seasoned FPS gamers. Maybe they want it to make 
 it longer to finish by making it harder to play? Not sure, but not good, in any case
  
  So, if you're like me a single campaigner and not an MP, do as I did and get it used on ebay for 
 half the regular price or wait for its price to drop further. I paid less that 20 bucks for it 
 and for that price it's worth it. But paying over 40 dollars is a rip-off if your aim is just to 
 play the single campaign. Either scenario, don't let this game pass and play it, you won't be disappointed
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: snipo101
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 19, 2008 3:27 pm PT
Review:  This review is a bit late, but whatever...
  
  Anyway, I could ramble on about this game for hours, but that would just make you bored, and less 
 likely to want the game. So to make a long story short...
  
  Graphics: 8/10 - The graphics are good, there are just other games with better graphics.
  
 
  Gameplay: 10/10 - Best gameplay in an FPS that I've ever aplayed.
  
  Realistic (ness?) : 8.5/10 - You can aim down sights, sprint, lean around corners, and all that other 
 cool stuff.
  
  Multiplayer: 9.5/10 - Fun and addictive. I cant stop.
  
  Story (in Single player) : 9/10 - Great, though not very emotional.
  
  Voice Acting: 10/10 - 
 On single player, at least.
  
  Soundtrack: 9.5/10 - Great music, however, it gets repetitive. 
  
  Overall, it is definitely 
 fun and certainly worth buying. PM me if you want more details, I guess. 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: theragu40
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 19, 2008 7:33 am PT
Review:  Over the years the Call of Duty franchise has proven itself the most venerable WWII shooter franchise 
 out there. Consistently intense and immersive, each main installment in the series (with the exception 
 of series misstep Call of Duty 3, whose development was outsourced to Treyarch) has improved upon 
 its predecessor in every way possible.
  
  Yet the WWII arena is becoming unmistakably stale. There is nary a skirmish that could ever have 
 conceivably happened that has been left unplayed by jaded WWII gamers. Thankfully developer Infinity 
 Ward realized this and reinvented their franchise as a simulation of modern combat before it went 
 the tired way of the Medal of Honor series. But do the new digs do the series justice?
  
  Gameplay-wise Call of Duty 4 is remarkably similar to its predecessors, and series veterans will 
 feel right at home despite vast changes in weaponry and locales. This is a double-edged sword, 
 however. You will find the same intensity, the same tight controls, and the same general level 
 of polish that has made earlier Call of Duty games so great. But you will also notice the same 
 faceless, endlessly spawning enemies that plagued earlier games. The sense of realism is somewhat 
 compromised when it becomes clear that no matter how many quasi-terrorists you murder, they will 
 continue to bum rush you until you manage to sprint to that next bombed out-house. Still, this 
 is not a deal-breaker in what is overall a very satisfying single player experience. The music 
 and sound effects are once again masterfully done, and the modern combat settings sport a graphical 
 overhaul that leaves you feeling like you're really there. This game is truly beautiful.
  
  Where COD4 really shines, though, is in the multiplayer. The COD series has always offered a somewhat 
 unique multiplayer experience, utilizing shifting spawn points to give a real sense of a dynamic 
 battlefield that feels alive and changing as you play. This returns, even more finely tuned than 
 before. But what makes multiplayer the real winner in this package is the addition of a full character 
 progression system not unlike what is offered in Battlefield 2. Progressing through the 55 character 
 ranks and trying to complete the myriad challenges can get extremely addicting and add significant 
 replay value to the game.
  
  Realistically, the game is worth it for the multiplayer component alone. But the single-player 
 game is worth a playthrough as well, which makes this a substantial package overall. I do have 
 some minor complaints about the singleplayer game mechanics, but these are nothing compared with 
 the things the game does right. They were not deal -breakers in the earlier games, and they are 
 not deal-breakers now. Buy this game.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: pparache
Rating: 7.5
Date: Aug 19, 2008 1:52 am PT
Review:  Lets say if you take this game and mixed with BF2 with Americas army real weapon sounds its could 
 be the best shooter to date but: Even thought it has the best graphics compare to other online 
 shooters there (bf2) the spawn system its to crazy for me as you appear randomly next to your enemy's 
 which makes me kinda like ouch couple with the fact that u cannot make squads so team play its 
 lacking, too small maps, no vehicles. Its not enough to keep me playing. A perfect game would be 
 COD4 graphics+ BF2 system a better sound engine, and a Blondie on the box. Hey I even pay 100 bucks 
 to the first company that make this one. 
  
  This one its taking dusk over my desk with the exception of occasional play when me and my friends 
 get bored from other games. Its not a bad game its just I don't really like it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: danielbill12
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 18, 2008 7:37 pm PT
Review:  Its a pretty good game, but multi player is plagued by laggers and glitches. Then theres the fact 
 that, although Punk Buster does an OK job of keeping hackers of PB protected servers, theres still 
 a good amount of people who get through the PB blocks and into non-hacker servers. If you get a 
 good game though, it's easy to get into the rythm of the game. The biggest plus for the PC COD4 is 
 the amount of people per server. So far the highest amount ive seen is 54 players. Though over 34 
 is getting a little over done. I wouldnt really recomend this for anyone that doesnt have the most 
 up-to-date computer though, seeing as the older your computer is, the worse you lag. Handling is also 
 another important factor in the game. Having to move the mouse, and press the keys at the same time 
 will probably confuse anyone who isn't adept at computer FPS's 
::::::

::::::
UserName: alinhix
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 18, 2008 4:17 pm PT
Review:  This game has a very short single-player campaign mode (no co-op) that is really just in place 
 to get you familiar with the game and controls. The only real reason to play this game is for the 
 online mulitplayer action. For me it was nearly impossible to get any kills at first since I didn't 
 get this game at release and most everybody was a very high rank. The more matches you take part 
 in, the better you get, and the more fun the game gets. Battles can be really intense, and they 
 can be somewhat slow, depending on the map you're playing. There are a lot of maps to choose from, 
 and implemented new ones with a content patch. Your character's kit is highly customizable, and 
 you will be constantly updating your setup as you unlock new items. The great thing about online 
 play is no two matches play out the same.
  
  The gameplay, graphics, controls, and level of realism on this first person shooter is about as 
 good as it gets. The only problems with this game are the server screen and the lack of offline 
 co-op play. Ping times and the listed amount of players are almost always incorrect, which leads 
 to time wasted trying to find a good server. Aside from this, the game is a must-have for any console, 
 and I can't wait until the next Call of Duty comes out! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Archangel3878
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 15, 2008 5:10 am PT
Review:  Raw RPG action...
  
    Compelling graphics
    HD graphics... too good to play..
    Awesome AI
    If you played Crysis/bioshock/Fear.. this is a must too..
  
    You can make 
 a movie out of the game..
  
  
  When you start.. it gets you into a movie.. you feel so part of the game while ppl are screaming 
 behind you..
  
  My friends said is it a movie? or a game? 
  
    Very real semantics.. you have to resist firing your teammates..
  
  
    Total fun to shoot 
 in sniper mode and sniper tactics.. and specially a mission in which your wearing a camouflaged 
 sniper suite.. totally cool.. enemy jus walk by you while you at the mission..
  (its like your in the movie from shooter)
  
  
    Just one problem.. the game gets over withing 
 3 days if your a freak on gaming..
  
    All in all a good game to play
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: scigeni
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 15, 2008 2:37 am PT
Review:  This is one of the best first-person shooters of all time. I recommend everyone to buy it. The 
 single-player is a little short, but extremely fun. The multiplayer in the other hand, is both 
 extremely fun and addictive. You can play it for hours and hours without getting one second of 
 a feeling of boredom, except if you're facing a really professional opponent who kills you after 
 a second of reviving! What makes the multiplayer even better, however, is the achievements that 
 you get from killing your opponents. You can get guns, scopes, and many other cool stuff. In simple 
 words, if you like first-person shooters, then you're going to love this game. The gameplay is 
 very interesting and realistic, the graphics are great, and the sounds of the guns shooting are 
 amazing! I hope Call of Duty: World at War will be as good as this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vulcan7paul
Rating: 5
Date: Aug 13, 2008 2:19 pm PT
Review:  when first playing this game I would have gave it ten out of ten but after 2 weeks I would give 
 it a 5 it gets so boring after a while .Battlefield 2 puts this game too shame, maps could be bigger 
 ,spawn killing is a joke, naders wet dream .Im sure all these reviews that give it such a high 
 score would much lower if they reviewed this after a couple off weeks play thank god for ebay bye 
 bye cod4 , activision try harder next time . take a leaf out of the battlefield games there is 
 so much depth in battlefield compared to this shallow monster of a game . In the large maps you 
 could get spawn killed ten times in a row and your lucky to walk a few steps before being killed 
 the small maps is such a problem for this game ,larger maps would have made it alot better and 
 vehicles would be good too 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Derek1177
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 13, 2008 1:01 pm PT
Review:  Call of Duty 4 is one of the Greatest games ever made by far!!! The single player campaign is great 
 but short. But the online play makes up for it. the game has 2 story lines 1 is a member of a SAS 
 Special Ops Team and the other is a US Marine. Both are fighting terrorist in the middle east. 
 The game also features a big variety of modern weapons and Attachments. In online there is a custom 
 class where you can choose weapons and there attachments. There is also a ranking system where 
 you can unlock more weapons and attachments to. Mods are real cool to especially the zombie mods. 
 you can download a mod tool where you can make your own mods but it is hard to get working (or 
 at least it is for me) . The standard online has several maps to play and the modes are free for 
 all and team deathmatch (there are several other modes 2 which are like team death match but with 
 objectives and stuff of the like) . thats all i have to say about this awesome game!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: The36OAddict
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 12, 2008 6:00 pm PT
Review:  This game is just flat out amazing! I can honestly say I have no complaints... AT ALL! 
  
  Graphically this game is as pretty as anyone says it is. But this game didn't need to sit behind 
 its astounding graphics, because everything else is just as good. COD4's online setup is so that 
 you have to advance in ranks to earn more weapons and perks. Personally I love being able to customize 
 your classes, it allows for more variation in combat. 
  
  I've heard alot of people say that they were disappointed in the fact that there were no online 
 achievements. I suppose they could have put in some online achievements, but I think that the reason 
 they didn't is because of the challenges, which kind of serve as your online accomplishments, and 
 they actually reward you with something besides gamerscore.
  
  Another obvious proof of the amazingness (its a word... really) of this games online play is the 
 fact that over half the people that play it online have never thought about playing the singleplayer 
 champaign.
  
  Thus Call of Duty 4 = AWESOME!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 41d3n
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 12, 2008 3:29 pm PT
Review:  In the beginning, there was only Medal of Honor and it was alright. Then a little developer named 
 Infinity Ward stepped in and made Call of Duty. Good god, it was awesome. Times were good and the 
 PC was the ruler of FPS. CoD was so successful that Infinity Ward went and made an expansion (CoD: 
 United Offensive) , another hit.
  
  Then, because they love money, the publisher of CoD - Activision - decided to enlist some arbitrary 
 over developers to make CoD for the consoles. Guess what happened - they butchered it. They made 
 CoD: Finest Hour and anyone who played the original on the PC vomited from the suck of Finest Hour.
 
  
  Nonetheless, console people loved it and Activision had some other company make a sequel for the 
 consoles. CoD 2: Big Red One (Console) was another **** that console people loved and I hold to 
 be the worst CoD game to date. Meanwhile, the real Infinity Ward released CoD 2 (PC) which was 
 another sack of awesome.
  
  Then developer Treyarch got in on the action and developed CoD 3 (Console) . God help us all, it 
 was horrible. Meanwhile, Infinity Ward skipped a number (I assume as to not be associated with 
 CoD 3) and released CoD 4 a little later.
  
  ^^ -- Just so everyone has the record straight -- ^^
  
  Call of Duty 4 has all of the grit and 
 action of the original CoD's with all of the finesse of 21st Century graphics. The singleplayer, 
 like many people have said and is probably true, is far too short. Not because it is shorter than 
 any other games singleplayer but because, at the end, you still want more.
  
  More fantastic level design that has you clawing your way through the back alleys of Iraqistan 
 (or wherever the crap the Marines are) . That gives you multiple opportunities to chose your attack, 
 be it straight up the middle or flanking. That features both close-in combat and expansive distance 
 fights. That has you one moment fighting your way up a garrisoned hillside and the next sniping 
 (if that's your style) back a counter attack.
  
  More epic storyline that has you battling Russian revolutionaries one minute with the British SAS 
 (which, I have to say, is my favorite special forces ever) and beating down middle eastern... um... 
 middle eastern people with the US Marine Reconnaissance the next.
  
  CoD 4 also features an epic multiplayer which, I gotta say, I only have 2 complaints about ever. 
 (1) There is no AI L96 sniper rifle, I was really hoping for that. (2) Hardcore mode isn't that 
 hardcore. Really, all it does is make the noob with the machine gun more effective. Other than 
 that, the multiplayer is one of the best I've ever seen. Especially since, on the PC, no one is 
 talking over the mic; which is nice.
  
  I wish I could say more about Call of Duty 4 but, if I did, it would many many paragraphs and probably 
 involve chapters somewhere. If you haven't already, buy CoD 4. It's an epically awesome game. So 
 much so that I give it a 10 out of 10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sharpdolphins
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 11, 2008 4:48 pm PT
Review:  we all seen b 4 all the parts of call of duty they all are good i dont know about the call of duty 
 3 cuz i am not play that game cuz i have only pc not a ps2 so i like all the call of duty parts 
 specially call of duty 4! why not cuz this is todays game like. all the weapons and guns are so 
 good. i really like the stage of sniper were me and captain go alone in this mission and the German's 
 army move forward and they cant see us.. i am little scared of them in that stage but i really 
 approved this game is marvelous and sort of like none other games to compare with it the graphics 
 is so stunning in few stages and game play is really good but the campaign was so short in this 
 game not a long game i know i wait so much about call of duty 4 and when the game is come all the 
 game is good but the campaign was so short but i am happy cuz the hole team of call of duty is 
 work hard and take the price of there hardworking keep it up.. thanks they give us the game like 
 that. now i wait for call of duty pro. the multi player is also good in this game. thanks the entire 
 team of call of duty 4!! :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: slickr
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 11, 2008 3:09 pm PT
Review:  There are games that promise to do all these amazing things and when they ship either they suck 
 seriously or just don't feel right, very little of them manage to be good.
  Infinity Ward on the other hand does not promise that, but it delivers every time.
  Call of Duty 
 4 is no exception, although away from WWII and now set in modern day it kinda keeps it fresh and 
 interesting.
  Story-wise its not the best game, but its not bad either, its just right.
  The game also makes some political declarations and touches a bit in that ground and that also 
 feels right. Its a mature game also, you'll see constant dying obviously as you shoot enemies, 
 but your allies also and there are some cut-scenes where it goes directly to the point, like you 
 transfer into a first-person view of a prisoner and a guy blows your head off at close range.
 
  
  The gameplay is what you'd expect from Call of Duty series and its varied and interesting all the 
 way through the game. There are different missions, with different objectives that you go through 
 in different ways. 
  You are also working with allies thought the game, sometimes more and sometimes less, but its constantly 
 with allies.
  As I've said the missions are varied and the settings at which they take place are all different 
 and interesting. 
  For example there is a boat mission at which the graphic effects are just amazing, rain, mist, 
 thunders and great lighting all contribute to the great atmosphere in the mission, at the end of 
 that mission the boat explodes and you are running in an turned-over boat, where the camera is 
 at an 30% degree angle and offers an interesting challenge. 
  When a bomb or flashlight explodes near your view blurs and shakens, as well as these silencing 
 sound goes on as in real life and it just adds to the realistic and atmospheric effect to the game.
 
  
  There is another level that almost makes a statement how to make an atmospheric game and just laughs 
 in the face of STALKER. Its a mission in Chernobyl and the effects, brightness, lightning and graphics 
 are so atmospheric and true to a real nuclear blasted place with radiation in it, its really great. 
 
  All this said, the game runs great even on older machines, for example I've played it with 1024x768 
 resolution, no AA and AF and all other settings set on maximum, on my PC with P4 at 2.8GHz, 1GB 
 ram and x1650PRO and it ran great, averaging 25fps, minimum fps was around 4 at big explosions 
 where there were huge amounts of enemies on screen and the maximum fps got to around 70 when there 
 was no fighting.
  
  The only thing this game lacks is hours of play, I've managed to finish the game in less than 10 
 hours, so that's an element they could have add more of, otherwise Call of Duty 4 shines for beginning 
 to end. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jason_Morris
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 10, 2008 5:07 am PT
Review:  
  
  Call of Duty 4
  
  Coming late to the party, I eventually decided to see what all the fuss was about. Best shooter 
 ever? Hmm, its very, very good, for sure, but I'm not so sure.
  
  There's the single player and multiplayer games, and unlike other shooters, there doesn't seem 
 to be a specific focus; both are good but with issues.
  
  First the single player. We all know this is notoriously short, but its full of quality, some GREAT 
 visuals, and some morally grey (to say the least) moments. The gameplay is very Call of Duty - 
 CoD4 may LOOK like a Tom Clancy title, but it sure doesn't play like one! I would say that the 
 default difficulty is far too easy, making the already brief campaign even briefer - the game needs 
 to be played at least on the Hardened difficulty to beef it up and get the most out of the campaign. 
 While the campaign is short, it utilises the Halo 2 trick of whisking you around many varied and 
 brief levels, so if your first play is on a harder difficulty, you will get the impression of a 
 much bigger game, and its only the second play through that you realise that all the levels are 
 over in 10-20 minutes.
  
  Next is the multiplayer. I'm not a huge multiplayer fan on the whole, and this doesn't really turn 
 me around, suffering slightly from the old "tacked on" feeling, but being bigged up to excuse the 
 size of the single player game. Here you'll be up against hordes of guys who seemingly play this 
 day and night so you'll really feel like a noob, even if you think you've been around the block 
 in multiplayer shooters. Again, the game looks, but doesn't play like a Clancy title; this is much 
 more fast and furious - TOO fast and furious, if you ask me. There's some nice maps that you'll 
 not get the chance to stop and enjoy the scenery in...
  
  The engine and general build of the game are definitely very polished, the majority of bugs long 
 gone, which is a pleasant surprise in today's market of rush-em-out-and-patch-em-later shooters. 
 Apart from the size of the single player and the noob unfriendly frenzy of the multi player, this 
 is surely in the very top echelon of shooters, but those aspects do spoil the fun somewhat, robbing 
 the game of an unreserved recommendation. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mr_Hi
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 10, 2008 12:32 am PT
Review:  Call of Duty has been one of my favourite fps franchises. I was extremely mad when the announced 
 that Call of Duty 4 would be in a modern time. I was thinking "oh great another game in the middle 
 east fighting so called terrorists" Then one day one of my friends gave it to me as a gift. i put 
 it in and started playing the great single player. The story sucked me in. I couldnt be more wrong 
 about this game other than the part where you are fighting terrorists. Then game still has that 
 Call of Duty feel in single player by throwing waves of guys at you if you stay in one spot, but 
 if yuo advance without taking a few out you will die. after i complete the single player i got 
 addicted to the multiplayer. Ranking up is fun and it the action doesnt feel to real or arcady. 
 I like the difference in damage between Call of duty 2 and Call of duty 4. In COD2 it took me 5-10 
 shots to take one guy down. in COD4 it takes 1-5, this makes using cover a must. If i was a run 
 and gunner who DOES NOT use cover i would probably still buy this game, but they wont get the enjoyment 
 i get out of it. I cant really talk about graphics because me computer barely handles it. 
  
  
  I really recommend you but this game if you havent picked it up
  
  graphics (well i 
 cant really rate this because my computer is on the lowest settings) on the lowest settings: 9
 
  
  controls: 10
  
  
  Gameplay: 10
  
  
  Value: 9 ( short single player)
  
  
  Sound 9 ( great gun sounds)
  
  
  Replay value 8.5 ( single player has a few hidden items 
 ) 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: curtis342
Rating: 7
Date: Aug 9, 2008 5:00 pm PT
Review:  Got my hands on a pre-orderd coppy of the game this morning. And i have to say (with a theatrical 
 pause) , its not all that flash and bang and waw that it was promissed. The story is pretty cliche. 
 A bunch of terrorists up to no good, Uncle Sam's right hand takes care of it and saves the day, 
 terrorists dead, everyone happy.
  
  While the game looks good graphicaly, the modelers realy have to go back to the drawing board. 
 The weapons are seriously out of proportion and badly positioned. The AI soldiers regularily clip 
 theyr hand through granade launchers on the M16's, the weapons proportions are completely wrong, 
 for instance the M249 SAW is way too small and the MP5 is way too large. The combat is identical 
 to COD2 and 3, more 3 if we get picky.
  
  If your looking for to the bone realism, franquely, go look ealswhere. COD4 is better compaired 
 to a action movie. Big booms, big ego's and lots of drama.
  
  The good thing is, it runs on the Unreal07 engine, which is fantastic! Its realy forgiving and 
 will run on just about anything... even a blender i could say. while you can churn up the settings 
 on a top class rig, you wont realy notice the difference. Unless you stare at pixles for hours.
 
  
  The Multiplayer is like the old COD multiplayers... ambitious but rubbish. Theres no real aim to 
 it, you just shoot for what its worth. While the perks are a nice touch at trying to make it more 
 individual, its realy easy to max them out and i have to say, games like BF2 and BF2142 did handle 
 the customisations alot better.
  
  Mind you also the gameplay is often quite alienating. Whenever your with some AI squad members, 
 they tend to do most of the shooting for you, so you just end up picking off the straglers. Most 
 noticable in the Ship Raid mission. Where you mainly watch the others shoot away. All in all, i 
 think its a nice litle time waster, the game dosent have a long life span, since you can get through 
 the campaign in around 5h nonstop. Give or take 1. So there you have it. Nothing new, but not bad 
 either. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: WhiteTigerX
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 9, 2008 1:19 pm PT
Review:  After so many years of success, Infinity Ward, brought us something even better then the previous 
 games Call of Duty 4: Modern Warfare.
  
  In this incredible game, we do not use the same old guns ( Unique but old, after 3 games it gets 
 boring always using same guns ) CoD4 brings us a vast arsenal of weaponry and so it brings Perks. 
 Special abilities that let you : Bring More grenades for example, Gives you a bit more health for 
 Rambo-Style, or even gives you a last stand, before die, bring the bastard with you. And lots of 
 More.
  
  The single player campaign, in spite that it is short, it is very well made , and the story is 
 stunning. You can finish it quick, but it's not something you'll easily forget. But the gameplay, 
 Graphics and Sound effects makes everything worth it. The game costs 50 but it worth's way more 
 for it's quality.
  
  Gameplay :
  
  The gameplay is equal both in single player and multiplayer, except that multiplayer has one addition. 
 Perks and Level system. You can add perk to your player, which will guide you to success ( or not 
 ) each and single perk has it's own ability, and it is divided in 3 sections. The first one, is 
 Weapons, which gives you, Claymores, More grenades, more flashbangs and so on. Then we have a category 
 that assists the player, it gives more health, or makes the player give more damage, makes him 
 sprint faster, so on. And lastly we have a category that i don't know how to name it, but, it gives 
 you special perks, such Not appearing in the enemy radar, or hearing the enemy voice chat, or last 
 stand, where you pull out your pistol to kill the guy who is killing you. We also have "Missions" 
 In multiplayer mode, such as Kill 10 enemies crouched, or kill with grenade, killing a number of 
 enemies with a certain gun, will improve its add-ons, if you get x number of head shots, you get 
 a better scope that you can add, or if you kill y enemies you get a red-dot. While doing this missions 
 you also receive additional experience. At the end of the map, you get experience for killing enemies, 
 and doing the missions, and so you can level. When you level up, you receive new perks and Weapons. 
 In single player we do not have that, but we can kill as many sons of a b*tches as we can to finish 
 our mission.
  
  Graphics: 
  
  The visual design in this game is absolutely stunning. But somehow, it does not require a super-dupper 
 computer. By other words, Good Low requirements graphics. The scenarios in single player are gorgeous, 
 and some of the maps, are used in Multiplayer, but a little edited so to promote better experience 
 in the game. The surroundings like the nature, and buildings or caves, it is all very well made 
 also if you play too much , when you go out, you will think, oph geez this looks so much like Call 
 of Duty! But for that you need to play alot.... no sleeping.
  
  Sound:
  
  When you start the first mission you will die just for hearing this greatness. While you are on 
 the helicopter, and your cap is talking, damn, every single voice are well chosen. The Sound effects, 
 are also very nice. 5.1 Surround Sound System, Big screen, and you will think you're actually in 
 a War. What I also enjoyed is the enemies, they speak theire actuall language, so it is a good 
 detail.
  
  Overall:
  
  Despite the size of the campaign at Single player, this game has everything you need for lots of 
 hours of fun. The single player campaign might be short, but it is one of the best you can ever 
 play. And the visuals in this game are also great. And it is astonishing that the system requirements 
 aren't much of a deal So all of us can enjoy the beautiful that this game is.
  
  All I can say is this game is a Masterpiece, and should be played by all of those, who consider 
 themselves, Gamers. It has all the ingredients to be a masterpiece. Let's just hope, that the choice 
 of going back to World War 2 in the next Call of Duty, is a good choice. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: anupam2204smart
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 9, 2008 12:21 am PT
Review:  The game begins with simplest of the starting. The graphics are indeed amazing... and for PC controls 
 are as usual (simple) . Running away of opponent soldiers on throwing a Grenade, takes the closer 
 to reality... but... the biggest disappointment of the game is its length. Its good to complete 
 a game as soon as possible... but is disappoints you if finished just the time you are enjoying 
 it the most....
  I am not a hardcore gamer... still i managed to finish the game in three days with just a few hours 
 of daily play... so i thought it would take hardly a day for a hardcore gamer to finish it... and 
 that would certainly disappoint when you spend so much money.
  The gamepley is really good with interesting facts about war equipments making it addictive sometimes 
 (at least for me 'cause i like such facts, i can google them but it's nice to find them in a game)
 
  However it was a nice to play... for whatever length of time it did... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kill_bot141
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 7, 2008 2:42 am PT
Review:  call of duty 4 is a fps with amazing graphics, great story, and incredible online muitplayer. call 
 of duty 4 is filled with heaps of action through campaign missions to Online miutiplayer. there 
 is also some variety between missions. But there are flaws in call of duty 4, in my option the 
 story is deep but also very short. sometimes the game can't keep a steady frame rate, cod4 can 
 also suffer from slow loading times. the cod4 online muitiplayer has one of the best online muitiplayers 
 ever made. it does not lag, (unless you have really slow internet) . call of duty online muitiplayer 
 has a massive variety in maps, weapons, fighting styles, and a lot of fps games (team death match, 
 free for all, search and destroy, and many more.
  
  With that said call of duty 4 is a game that should not be missed!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pierlucsimard
Rating: 5.5
Date: Aug 6, 2008 1:02 pm PT
Review:  Ok first ill begin buy saying that this game have the best graphic so far for a multiplayer FPS. 
 But the gameplay is so dumb its unbelievable. 
  
  - Alot of ppl are using hack. In battlefield, i rarely see hacker, but in this game its just terrible.
 
  - Some ppl turn down graphic to remove herb and smoke.... bad thing from the developper. They 
 should have think about it.
  - Its really a grenade party. I mean cmon, its really get frustrating.
  - NO teamwork.
  - NO 
 goal, u just kill and kill and kill.
  - NO vehicule, they should try to follow battlefield series.
  - Unlock are too powerfull, it 
 gives a big advantage to veteran player.
  - Some map are too small, - Kill house : (. Its so stupid. Just play this map 20 vs 20 and ull see.
 
  - Its too realistic in some way. 1 shot one kill usually. I prefer too have 7-8 shoot before i 
 die so i can react a bit more.
  
  To resum, i dont see a big difference between this and medal of honor 1 in term of gameplay, which 
 mean this game did not innovate in any way.
  
  Please, do yourself a favor and try to play an intelligent game: battlefield series. At least they 
 innovate. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mlevit
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 5, 2008 3:27 pm PT
Review:  The single player story in Call of Duty 4 (COD 4) was quite interesting but over pretty quickly. 
 It took me around four hours to complete in the one day.
  
  The game has better graphics than its predecessors but they aren't spectacular in all aspects. 
 I've played Splinter Cell Double Agent before COD 4 and I must say, most of the walls, floors and 
 player skins are done better in Splinter Cell. The tiled floors in Splinter Cell look like they 
 are rendered and aren't just images. That's where COD 4's graphics aren't really up to scratch.
 
  
  After playing Call of Duty 1, United Offensive and 2 multiplayer, you'll miss the Capture the Flag 
 game type. It's very weird that it wasn't an option in COD 4 like it has been in all their other 
 ones. 
  The multiplayer side of COD 4 is amazing. The guns are beautiful, the graphics and effects are 
 great and the online battles are amazing.
  
  Although playing Team Death Match became a bit too much (mainly because of the 32 player servers 
 and non-stop spraying) I found that the Hard Core servers were much better. COD 4 offers server 
 hosters an option to create Hard Core severs. Hard Core servers don't have a HUD (aim using your 
 iron sight) and have increased weapons damage (more realistic) . In the Hard Core servers, players 
 are a lot more careful of where the walk, run, shoot and throw grenades (due to friendly Fire) .
 
  
  All in all COD 4 is a great game, and one that I'll be sticking with for a while. I've always loved 
 Call of Duty's gameplay and COD 4 is no exception.
  
  Thanks,
  
  Marat 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DarkUser2
Rating: 7.5
Date: Aug 5, 2008 6:39 am PT
Review:  I can't say the game is completely bad. It has some good points. The graphics are good, but games 
 are not judged by their graphics. The sound is fine. 
  
  The Singleplayer is quite fun. The storyline is a bit boring and anticipated, but the gameplay 
 is quite fun. The singleplayer is also too short. I didn't expect it to be long of course, but 
 could be longer.
  
  And here comes the worst part, the multiplayer. I don't understand why does everyone like it so 
 much. When you start, you get killed alot. You may think "I just started, I will get better". You 
 are wrong! How can you get better when you are constantly killed by an 11 years old boy with nothing 
 to do who plays the game 10 hours a day? Because you need only 3 things to be good: 1. Be the highest 
 level and own super powered weapons
  2. Play with beginners or noobs
  3. Know the map and how to hide there
  You need nothing more! 
  Teamwork=0! No team work! Everybody 
 just charge the front and shoot like hell. Did you ever hear anyone who said:" WTF was that cover?" 
 No! There is no ability to aid other classes, almost no opportunities to cover them.
  Balanced Weapons=0! There are too much overpowered weapons and crap that makes the game not fair! 
 The P90 known as the most overpowered weapon. This weapon is shooting quickly, has no recoil and 
 a lot of ammo. What can be more overpowered than that? The granade launcher, also overpowered. 
 Althought it is slowly reloading and has only 2 granades, it can kill 5 people just by exploding 
 nearby them! You are not required to aim with this thing!! Isn't that enough to get the game out 
 of balance?
  Take Counter Strike as an example. Being good in this game requires pure skill! There is no crap 
 like airstrikes or helicopters or perks. You just have to know how to fight well, and have a great 
 teamwork and covers with other players.
  
  To summarize it all, the game is just another failiure, and doesn't worth the money. Save it for 
 something else. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sentronentron
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 3, 2008 4:13 pm PT
Review:  This game was the first "modern day" shooter that I had purchased for the computer that was above 
 and beyond its calling. Everything in this game is worth what you pay for it.
  
  The single player campaign is engaging and unique as far as shooters go. There is also nothing 
 to get in the way and clutter the responsibilities of infantry personnel such as vehicles. This 
 is the essence of a warfare game, and is mind-blowing. The graphics are incredible, and have a 
 different presence versus that of other war-ravaged areas, in that the entire game is not gray 
 scale or monochrome. The story is engaging, and the multiplayer is something altogether! Whether 
 you have just a few people playing (8 to 16) or an army (50) , the multi-player is engaging on all 
 levels, and some of the mods available turn the game into something else entirely.
  
  This game is a must have for any shooter collection! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dnedalsg
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 3, 2008 1:32 pm PT
Review:  Fighting terrorists is not very innovative. Granted. But that just makes Call of Duty 4: Modern 
 Warfare even more impressive.
  
  CoD4 is one of the best games I've played in a while. Graphics are near-perfect, controls are very 
 user-friendly, the story is good (though not great) and the constant change of characters (kicking 
 ass as a Marine or a SAS member) , timeline, scenery and weapons (sniping, providing close air-support, 
 etc) guarantees the game doesn't get boring or repetitive, ever. Even dying is fun in CoD4, as 
 you're treated to humorous bits of military wisdom.
  
  In the end it all adds up to a highly addictive game, which you'll play over, and over, and over 
 in the arcade mode - counting headshots - after all the missions are done in the regular singleplayer 
 storyline.
  
  Semper fi. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: faisal_6600
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 2, 2008 10:49 pm PT
Review:  In the Call of duty series all games are very good and playable the fourth of the series has some 
 new change that make this game a popular game and top rank on pc call of duty 4 is a single player 
 shooting game and adventure this game has new modern things the new modern weapons vehicls and 
 locations yhis give u a new look the modern shooting game is very good this give u a action of 
 present day so, that's why this game has rank on pc and overall this game is very good and this 
 is the good shooting game and this is the best shooting game on pc
  this game has some new features that very good u play this game with ur interest and some patch 
 that solve ur problems
  i say the call of duty 4 is best game and this series going well and new games are also good and 
 best.
  now i say to all the shooting game has thier own respect every type of game has its own respect 
 we can not say that gta better this because this game is not modern action adventure .
  Call of duty 4 is a shooting game and no shooting game is better than
  Call of Duty 4 all the 
 time best and excelant
  this is a best shooting game on all platforams i like it because this game has many features
 
  i say this is the best game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tomaldino
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 2, 2008 10:28 am PT
Review:  I got this game for christmas after much anticipation and it didnt dissapoint. I completed the 
 SP campaign on Veteran within a week and got to level 55 online in a month or so. The graphics 
 and physics of the game felt comfortable. I like the "Create a Class" featute, but now i just stick 
 to the weapons I use in matches, mainly AK47, AK74u and M40A3. The Golden Weapons are also a good 
 feature, it gives you more to do online after reaching level 55. Most games nowadays focus mainly 
 on online action, but the Call of Duty series have always had great singleplayer storylines, and 
 this is no exeption. Plenty of twists and turns, all the levels were good enough in my opinion. 
 Usually on most games the player's side very rarely has any casualties to make it easier on the 
 player, but not here. Most of the USA Marine characters are killed, including the player "Sgt. 
 Jackson". Griggs and Gaz are also killed in the end, and Price is allegadly dead, but we don not 
 know for certain. I give it a 10/10 for bot Singleplayer and Multiplayer 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FearBoo
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 1, 2008 6:52 am PT
Review:  Call of duty always had the best gameplay and graphics, but this one has a story as well, thats 
 just the perfect combination. You play as 3 characters, the protagonist is Sgt. John "Soap" MacTavish 
 a rookie. then Sgt. Paul Jackson ho (spoiler) dies from a nuclear explosion that hit the city he 
 waz in at the time. Its a shame because He and his team are the first U. S. Marines featured in 
 the Call of Duty franchise. and you also play as Capt. Price (you save him in the fist Call of 
 Duty) 15 years before Call od Duty 4's plot ( spoiler ) . He also dies in an rocket fired by a 
 helicopter that immobilizes everyoane in the team. He gives you hes gun to kill Imran Zakhaev (the 
 bad guy in the game) , and after that Price dies. "Soap" is the only one that manages to survive 
 in the houl team.
  All in all its a good game withe a well diserved story. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rosen22
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 31, 2008 4:39 am PT
Review:  me likey boom boom boom
  when they went to me you could never eat the hat that was under the sultan and maybe that is why 
 a crony pecked off the nose of the game
  but the real truth about cod4 is that it rocks bob geldof and his friends out of the park.
  plus 
 i know for a fact that i am amazing and a top voice actor with too much time on his hands during 
 the summer
  that aside i cant wait for the new neverwinter nights to come out. gamespot is covering games very 
 weirdly.
  oh blah blah blah blah blah
  dont you lok at me like that. dont judge me for my jabberwocky fetish. its not a fun thing to dismiss 
 but love is where i am centered using a book by patsy rodenburg and to make sure i am working hard 
 in drama school. i will read some more book because i am not a spak. but i certainly cant wait 
 for the new call of duty.. even if for some inane reason they have gone back to ww2. WHy not do 
 a vietnam.. guerilla warfare with scripted events. that would be awesome. 
  why are games companys so afraid to venture into unknown territory. use your imaginations.
  invent 
 your own war or do one.. not milked to death by a cow now empty of its soul
  JUST BUY COD4. i dont need to talk about it because its that good. few flaws but you wont see them 
 unless your looking for them specificly
  that is all
  fight the nwo 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hotbodyboy_2006
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 31, 2008 4:17 am PT
Review:  There was a time till 2007 when people used to ask me what is the best FPS you have ever played 
 and i used to blatantly say Half Life 2.
  
  Now, Thanks to Call Of Duty 4, the same question makes me perplexed!!
  
  I was never a GREAT 
 fan but definitely a normal Fan of the Call Of Duty Series. Call Of Duty 1 was a great game but 
 became a bit boring and repetitive in the end. Call Of Duty 2 was boring at Start then went on 
 to make a Great Finish. So obviously, i didn't have much interest in this game but still gave it 
 a try as it was highly acclaimed by everyone!!
  
  So what is Call Of Duty 4?? Its nothing but the Great Start Of COD1 and Great Finish Of COD2. I 
 just hope COD5 doesnt take the other bad elements of COD1 and 2 lol just kidding.
  
  Anyways, the story in this game is totally different from the previous 2 titles. First you go to 
 some Middle East place to Assassinate Al-Asad!! Then you go on to visit places like Russia and 
 then Ukraine and so on.
  
  BTW, your name in this game is SOAP and lol it sucks!! Even Captain Price makes fun of your name 
 at the start.
  
  The best mission in the CALL OF DUTY Series which i will never forget. You get to go 15 years back 
 and get to play the good Ol  PRICE. COD 4 suddenly becomes Metal 
 Gear Solid 4 and you have to take people out stealthily. Great Fun Man. 
  
  The ending is a masterpiece. In all the other COD games ending is not so very great. I don't mean 
 bad, but its quite like "I have already read this ending in my history text book" Kind of thing. 
 But here the ending is the best part.
  
  The graphics of this game are UNTOUCHABLE. Everything looks so damn real. I played this game on 
 the PC and it almost burnt my 8600GT 512 MB card. My PC used to restart a lot of times. I cant 
 imagine what this game will be like on the PS3 or XBOX360. One little, little mistake which can 
 be ofcourse ignored is the Vehicle's Tyre and Body textures. Who knows maybe i played it on PC 
 that's why!! Ofcourse this isn't nfs so i dont expect that!! Ah!! One big drawback!! This game 
 is too short!! I really wanted more of COD4 after the ending. LOLZ!! When i played this game after 
 every mission i used to pray 'god this should NOT be the ending'. It worked but not for long [: D]
 
  
  Concluding, this is EASILY the BEST BEST and BY FAR SUPERIOR game in the SERIES. At first i didnt 
 actually believe that this game was call of duty as expectations were not that high!! One of the 
 best games on the XBOX360 that should not be missed!! If you have a powerful PC like mine go ahead 
 purchase it for the PC (But consoles better i suggest) .
  
  This can also be called as one of the GREATEST FPS in the long run. I am now definitely looking 
 forward to Call Of Duty 5.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: keeponjammin08
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 31, 2008 1:34 am PT
Review:  I honestly couldn't say I want much more from this game. Ok one thing caught my attention. The 
 2d backgrounds (found in nearly every game) were sort of lacking. And by sort of I mean really lacking. 
 It's basically just a picture you know, why couldn't it had been more detailed!? 10 year old final 
 fantasy games have nicer pre-rendered pictures in them. Not really a big deal, I just didn't get 
 it you know? Still, this game has proficient graphics, very scalable for people with lower end 
 machines, and rich with fun! The story was too short but it was the most immersive war game I've 
 ever played. The multiplayer is alot of fun, especially the hardcore modes. Some modes are a little 
 pointless... such as sabotage. That's ok though. It was a good try at a new game mode. Some complain 
 that the streak rewards are cheap... That's because you don't know how to defend yourselves from 
 it. You can hear an airstrike coming and estimate where you think it's going to hit. So hey, run 
 away or get in a building. And the helicopter is far more useless than the airstrike. Empty a clip 
 into it (you won't be the only one doing so) and it's gone. Don't gripe! Buy it! Totally worth 50 
 coin. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lon3lysnake
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 30, 2008 10:36 pm PT
Review:  COD is always well-known for it's fast action, intense firefight, and it's thrilling story keeps 
 holding your breathe. COD4 has returned with an entire different style, infinity ward decided to 
 turn their sequel from WWII to a modern warfare.
  
  The single player campaign was absolutely thrilling, with 2 playable characters including SAS operator 
 and USMC marine, players will be playing through the frictional conflict between Russia. The gameplay 
 is based on many actual military tactics, and a lot cool actions. You will be addicted to it.
 
  
  Another aspect of this game is the multiplayer. Players can customize their character with various 
 of weapons and perks, which benefits individual's style. COD4 multiplayer suppose to support players 
 up to 32 players, but I've seen servers with over 40-50 players. COD4 is also great fun to play 
 with small group of friends, even 2-3 players can find a lot joy and excitement.
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Benevolentbob
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 30, 2008 8:34 am PT
Review:  Wow, I just finished beating the single player campaign on this game , and what a thrill ride. 
 This game definitely deserves all the praise it has received by both critics and gamers alike.
 
  
  The graphics are outstanding. On max settings this game is one of the best looking out there right 
 now. Lots of awesome lighting, shadow, and particle effects as well as some pretty good textures. 
 The game also has a pretty fluid frame-rate and only a little bit of pop-in but that trelies more 
 on your computer than the game itself. This game may not be quite as forgiving as Steam powered 
 games but it still will run smoothly on at least low settings on most newer computers, and it doesn't 
 take all that much to max it out either. I'm running a 2.4 ghz Core 2 Duo Processor With 3 GB of 
 RAM and a 8600M GT with max settings. Yep, and if you didn't recognize what that M meant, it stands 
 for mobile. That's right folks the game is running max on my laptop and smoothly at that. 
  
  The soundwork is astounding. All of the gun and explosion sound effects are awesome, and the 
 guns really sound unique. The soundtrack itself is simply epic, it's what you would expect in an 
 oscar nominated war film. The voicework is espeecially good and you really get into the characters.
 
  
  This game features the classic Call of Duty game-play that we know and love, but a little more 
 fine tuned and in a modern setting. The modern setting is a nice change, I was getting kind of 
 tired of World War II, plus I think I can relate more to this story thanks to the state of the 
 world we live in today, and got a little more emotionally involved. While the campaign is short, 
 it has a ton of action and is litered with interactive cinematic sequences that are just plain 
 awesome and make the whole thing feel truly epic. Some of the missions are amazing, my favorite 
 is the sniper mission flashback in Chernobyl. The storyline in this game rivals Metal Gear Solid 
 in terms of being an interactive experience rather than just a game. When you're all finished up 
 with the single player, there's the multi player. Now, Call of Duty multi-player has always been 
 good, but they completely revolutionized it here. It is much more deep, and much more competitive. 
 Being able to create your own classes and choosing your advantages and disadvantages wisely is 
 pretty darn cool. Plus now there's players ranks and little unlockables to show that you're just 
 that much better than that other guy. You'll get your money's worth with this loaded multi-player.
 
  
  This game features a stellar, cinematic single player experience and an awesome, addicting multi-player 
 game as well. People are sure to be playing the multi-player for years. If you've been waiting 
 for a price drop to buy this game, then yo better start asking Activision to hurry the heck up.
 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: sliencerz123
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 28, 2008 9:06 am PT
Review:  Call of duty 4 M. W is the best first person game for pc it has everything, the guns the solders, 
 and wild wild west shooting call of duty 4 is all i play now until Star Wars Force Unleashed coming 
 sept 16 2008, i cant wait. anyway cod 4 is so awesome i recommended the Damn game to my uncle and 
 he loves it to and he always brags about how far he is and how he beats me but i will catch him 
 on the rebound someday .so to the call of duty makers bring out the best you got. call of duty 
 series is aw some i have all of them you made so far and i already had call of duty world at war 
 reserved at gamestop yesterday i have a question for the makers will any of the call of duty's 
 will take place in Iraq or Afghanistan some times or a futuristic version of cod? well i don't 
 want to wait for cod 6 
::::::

::::::
UserName: k80sg
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 28, 2008 2:26 am PT
Review:  This game needs no introduction. Even if you are not a FPS fan, you seriously ought to give yourself 
 a try if you have yet to do so. I have always been a fan of COD series ever since the first one 
 came out. Maybe because prior to playing COD 1, I was still hooking on Half-Life, not that HL is 
 a bad game, infact it still remains as one of my favourite FPS, just that I was awed by the significant 
 difference in style as well as the advancement of graphic between the first COD and the older series 
 plus expansions of HL and I remembered how lagging it was to run on my vintage PC back then. 
 
  
  Nevertheless, the game quickly earns my attention and eventually forced me to upgrade my outdated 
 system just to cater to the needs for running this game. Ever since playing the first installation 
 of COD, I hardly pay any attention to other FPS shooters as I thought nothing would come close 
 to what COD can offer albeit today, there are some serious contenders and debations going out there 
 with games like Crysis and the anticipated upcoming FarCry 2.
  
  In this latest release of COD: Modern Warfare, war takes place in the modern world as the title 
 reads. Probably to take a break from World War history. With next gen graphics, it takes the already 
 fantastic game aesthetically to the next level. What makes COD 4 stands out is the amount of arsenal 
 and the degree of realism it offers. It hardly brings you to taste what you probably would not 
 in a real battle fight. In conjunction to this aspect, COD weapons comes fairly close to firing 
 a real weapon in terms of recoil and accuracy. I have been to the army so I know how it feels like 
 to fire a real rifle. (Thanks to the 2 hellish years of compulsory national service in my country...) 
 Unlike some FPS out there where it's possible to single handly take down 4 - 5 enemies with a futuristic 
 superhuman suit in the center of a battlefield, COD pulls you back from these godly warlords to 
 a ordinary human soldier. Basically, you can't take alot of punch before you go down and same goes 
 to the enemy. In exchange for the realistic game play, be expected to see yourself dying often, 
 sometimes it takes a bit of luck too to survive.
  
  Another major contributing factor of COD 4 as with previous COD series is that it constantly puts 
 you in small section to fairly sized platoon highly intense firefights. Oh and battalion-size battles 
 too, if you have played COD 2 there's a Battle of Stalingrad campaign where you as a Soviet Rifleman 
 together with hundreds of comrades charging towards the German forces, it's still amazing to me 
 how they manage to graphically squeeze in so many soldiers given the PC specs of those days. There 
 is also a wider selection of armory as compared to previous COD series where WWII weapons are somewhat 
 limited but generally, the handling physics as compared to previous COD series feels more or less 
 the same, accurate, crisp and impactful. 
  
  Despite the short single player campaign, the online mode is what that will keep you entertained 
 long after you finish the game. There are different online modes to choose ranging from Team Deathmatch 
 where you go solo to capturing locations of a map that requires a bit of teamwork. The game also 
 introduces something new known as perks where you gain additional skills through experience from 
 frags.
  
  Overall, COD 4 will remain as the top of my FPS game list as for now and I can't wait for COD 5: 
 World at War to be released! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Liquify
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 27, 2008 3:15 am PT
Review:  Call of Duty 4: Modern Warfare is the fourth installment in a line of traditionally World War II 
 based shooters. However with the abundance of these games in recent times, developer Infinity Ward 
 decides to take the series in a different direction to a tone thats more akin to modern tactical 
 shooters (ie: Counter-Strike) . This undoubtedly brings about the series biggest triumph. The single 
 player is superb in itself, but the multiplayer is where the game finds its zenith.
  
  Gameplay: Those familiar with the Call of Duty series will recognize the similarity of CoD4's gameplay 
 when compared to its predecessors. Although there are some noticeably different tweaks (sprinting, 
 traps, knifing etc.) it is still closely resembles Call of Duty 2. With that being said, it is 
 nothing short of flawless. This is how an FPS on the PC should be played. By default, you hold 
 your firearm by your hip, which works well in close quarters but when shooting from a distance 
 you should look down the sights to produce a more accurate shot. In addition to the guns, there 
 are various types of grenades, traps such as claymores and C4s, RPGs, grenade launchers and the 
 ever so satisfying knife to use at your disposal. Yet still there is more. In the multi-player 
 you are given the option to create customisable classes based on your preferred style of gameplay. 
 There are a wealth of weapons to choose from and another highly welcomed aspect is the inclusion 
 of perks. Each class can have three perks which can be described as various power-ups that will 
 benefit various areas of combat. Without going into anymore detail, the gameplay is quite simply 
 the best I have witnessed in a FPS. 
  10/10
  
  Graphics: The graphics in CoD4 are truly a spectacle, although not as impressive on a large scale 
 when compared to say Crysis they are amazing in their own right. They are just about perfect, but 
 whats even better is that it is highly compatible with mid range pcs. The Call of Duty series is 
 known for its sympathy to weaker machines and any one with a mid even a low range gaming pc can 
 get away with decent visual experience with a steady frame-rate. However if you really want to 
 become immersed in the environment invest in a new GPU, maybe even a new PC. Its worth it!
  10/10
  
  Sound: A sense of realism is created by the games sound when combined with the right 
 hardware. Weapons and explosions sound like they should and the ambient music in the background 
 creates the perfect atmosphere for really becoming immersed in the game. Voice acting is also top-notch.
 
  9/10
  
  Value: Sadly the one shortcoming of CoD4 comes in its single-player. It is very short. One without 
 an adequate internet connection (or one at all for that matter) may feel short changed by the length 
 of the single-player. Good as it may be, it could have been all that better with a few more missions, 
 although you may be tempted to re-visit CoD4 as you unlock another form of the single player in 
 arcade mode which may or may not interest you. However all is not lost. Those with decent net can 
 experience what I believe to be the best online shooter currently on the market. There are a number 
 of game modes to choose from and a generous amount of maps to play them on. I have personally spend 
 hundreds of hours, solely playing the multiplayer and 9 months on I'm still coming back for more. 
 This game shines in its multiplayer!
  8/10
  
  In conclusion, Call of Duty 4: Modern Warfare is the single best first person shooter you will 
 play. If not even just for its multiplayer, Call of Duty 4 will be a highly enjoyable experience 
 for any FPS/Action fan. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: historickillers
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 26, 2008 8:48 pm PT
Review:  Call of Duty 4 was excepted by most players as one of the best games ever. If temporariley outranked 
 Halo 3 on XBOX Live, it has a lasting multiplayer with many more maps than Halo 3 or Call of Duty. 
 The singleplayer is short, but way more happens in it than a World War II shooter. Modern Warfare 
 is in response to WWII being played out a bit to much and the growing crisis in the Middle East. 
 It is fictional, but is awesome. The plot is a 6 day war in the Middle East and Russia. You as 
 a United States Marine and two SAS operatives. But it's not to hard, the hardest would probabley 
 be the Sniper level "All Ghillied Up" trying not to be spotted by patrols, tanks and helicopters. 
 It's not like you come out a hero and all your buddies come home alive. Most characters that you 
 play with are killed: Captain Price, Griggs, Gaz. There is confusion with the theory that Price 
 was killed, but with a cheat code, you can go out of your body and see that Price is dead after 
 he slides you a pistol. And the Russian medic gives up trying to revieve him before the screen 
 turns white. And because the screen turns white like when Jackson died, theres a good chance that 
 he doesn't make it. 
  Multiplayer is very lasting, it has challenge for things like headshots, special kills, and shooting 
 down helicopters. There is a rank system, from 1-55. You get ranks from kills, challenges, calling 
 things in and Match Bonus. If you have PS3 or XBOX 360 there's Priesteige mode which gives you 
 an extra 10 ranks. There are many maps and 5 new ones coming with the 1.4 and 1.6 version for PC. 
 For XBOX and PS3, they 1.6 4 maps cost 10 dollars. There are a lot of modern weapons ranging from 
 the Beretta to the M60 Machine Gun. You can add camoflage and attachments as you complete that 
 weapon's challenge. 
  I give this game a 10.0 for awesome multiplayer and great singleplayer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Colostome-Boy
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 26, 2008 1:36 pm PT
Review:  I had just got my xbox a few weeks before this came out, i wasnt really excited about it b/c i 
 didnt really read up on it much. i saw my brother play it a lot and i thought the graphics were 
 pretty nice. other than that, not really impressed. but one day i had a real bad cold, and i decided 
 to try it out. OH MY GOSH! the first level was really fun to play, and then when the ship was sinking 
 and you had to jump to the helicopter, and almost fall out...... it made the game seem like a movie 
 at parts, it was fan-freaking-tastic. the entire story line was very strong, with characters you 
 cared about, the action was gripping down to the final showdown. infinity ward has created another 
 great COD game, even surpassing the great job they did with COD 2. i would recommend this game 
 to everyone. the online was fun too, the prestige ability, unlocking weapons and perks. everything 
 about this game is good. so stop reading my review and go out and buy/rent this game. DO IT! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Armaan8014
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 25, 2008 11:37 am PT
Review:  I can say easily that this is the best fps that I've ever played. Yeah, I've played Crysis.
  The best thing about the game is that you're always accompanied by your squad, which might have 
 been there in the earlier games but I don't know about that as I've never played them. Anyways, 
 this makes the game fun, not scary or unpleasant as some of the other games are in which it seems 
 that your the only person capable of doing anything at all and so each mission's given to you.
 
  The game has an amazing mix of action, humor, suspense, and the best of all, an awesome story.
 
  The environment and the things that happen around you truly amaze you at times and take you by 
 surprise. There is no end to shocks till the end that will constantly leave you awed.
  There is such a variety in the game that you'll never feel like quitting it. This was the problem 
 with Crysis. All you had to do there was the common stuff... kill hordes of people, gather intel, 
 and the nanosuit doesn't add anything to the game. Anyways, that's for the Crysis review.
  The variety in this game is shown by the different kinds of mission which are too many to be mentioned. 
 But the one that truly amazed me was in the level 'Death from Above'.
  The graphics in this game are deadly as is commonly seen nowadays, which will make you keep hitting 
 f12 to take pics.
  The humor is embedded throughout the game, which makes this overall a fun experience. Since you'll 
 be sticking with your crew till the end of the game, you'll kinda get emotionally attached to them, 
 which amplifies the overall experience.
  Seriously, this game is AWESOME and takes gaming to a whole new level as it is very movie-like. 
 There's no question... YOU'VE GOTTA GET THIS GAME! 
  Its really an immersive and revolutionary game
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: widdowson91
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 3, 2008 3:01 am PT
Review:  There isn't really much to say about the single player on this game because there isn't much of 
 one.
  Going from it's original roots of World War 2, Infinity Wars changed to modern day so they could 
 create there own story.
  You play as either 'Soap' a British SAS member or as a US Marine. Some wack job called Aled Al-Asad 
 is threatening the middle east with neulclear warfare but he isn't the brains it's atually someone 
 called Inram Zackhaev.
  His plan is to fire 5 Neulclear missiles to destroy the 5 major cities in USA with an estimsted 
 casualty list of over 40 million people.
  So the whole point of the single player is to stop this. Although the single player is dsssapointingly 
 short, the presenatationis fantastic and the levels are set-out brilliantly.
  
  It's the online multiplayer features that make this game excell. It's probably the deepest online 
 FPS to date. On the PC you can play with upto another 53 people on over 15 online maps.
  You can also customise your charactor to whatever you like.
  As your charcter rises in levels, 
 you unlock new guns such as the Barret 50 calibur sniper rifle, and also get new perks such as 
 martyrdom, which drops a live grenade when you die.
  The highest level on the PC version is Lv55 Commander, there is no prestige on the PC version so 
 once your 55 thats it, but there are loads of challanges you can do such as 'carpet bomb' wich 
 you get for killing 5 people in a single airstrike.
  The biggest difference when you play the game online is that when you get 3 kills on the trot you 
 gain a UAV plane, 5 kills on the trot you can summon fighter jets to bomb the selected location 
 and 7 kills earns you an attack helicopter to kill the enemies. If any of there kills someone it 
 does add to your overall score. Happy days.
  The guns sound extremely realistic and the enviroment sounds are brilliant too, as even on Multiplayer 
 you can hear shooting and explosions in the distance.
  
  I will now say that Call of Duty 4, wether on PC, 360 or PS3, is the best online game ever and 
 it will take some beating. But the lack of a long single player brings the game down.
  
  Gameplay- 10
  Graphics - 10
  Sound - 10
  Value - 9
  Design - 10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kiriyama12
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 25, 2008 12:44 am PT
Review:  Ok to start off, i am not a call of duty fan, i played call of duty 2, it was ok but the wwii guns 
 were a bit "lowtech" for me, and that was my first person shooter to date, yes you heard right, 
 my first. then comes the hype of call of duty: modern warfare, i was intrigued by this game when 
 me and my friends were playing it at my friends X360.
  
  (PS: i own a PS3 not a 360) .
  
  after playing it and sucking at it (x360 controller total newbie: navigation, where to shoot, 
 etc. my friend ate me alive.) then the PC version came up, and knowing the game already i rushed 
 to the store and got myself a copy, (yes i was one of the first, but my review is very late because 
 this the only time that i felt like it, and i probably got tired from playing it like couple of 
 times since the game is very short.)
  
  this games run smoothly on my PC it's not high-end but a gaming PC, my another reason for giving 
 this game a high rating was because i liked it so much that i decide to install it on my old laptop 
 it was only:
  
  Acer Aspire (forgot version)
  
  2.0 ghz 800mhz
  256mb ati radeon x700 mobility
  shader model was lower that 3.0
  80 gig HD
  xp proffesional 
 dx9
  
  it ran on 1280x800 widescreen resolution
  all features enabled
  2x anti-aliasing
  forgot the others
  but it simply looked stunning.
  
  oh yeah i was only 
 discussing my interest and tech specs, as for the game play it.......
  
  or be left behind. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: koolgraphic
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 24, 2008 3:35 pm PT
Review:  Ahhhhh.... COD4MW...... Normally i dont go for sequels but this one is an exception. Shooters dont 
 get better than this. The game is short but really worth it. The cinematics are really something. 
 The gameplay for the single player campaign is linear but it does not really matter because you 
 will forget soon enough. The graphics is really good considering its just a DX9 game... The textures 
 are really great considering im playing this with my old AMD X2 4200+ and 7800GT..... I applaud 
 infinity ward for making this game accessible for people like me with older systems.
  The sound is also really good if you have a 5.1 surround system..
  AI has also really improved 
 but its really annoying when ur team mates dont die when they are being shot at soooooooooooooo 
 many times..
  I'm really satisfied with this game... overall..... Writing a book about this game will not prove 
 anything if u dont pick it up and play.... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BlackSunshine59
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 24, 2008 11:30 am PT
Review:  This is just a superb game. The game is just so advanced like, for example, in most games if you 
 threw a grenade in a sink , the grenade would explode, but nothing else would happen. In this game 
 plates and frying pans and paintings would be flying all over the place. The gameplay is also awsome. 
 The RPG style multiplayer adds alot of depth to the game.
  The graphics in this game are the most photo realistic graphics i have ever seen. The lighting 
 effects are awsome. Also, the character movments are more realistic than most shooters and dont 
 have that "bocky" feel to them.
  Now for the bad things.
  1. The singleplayer mode is as long as your avreage action movie.
  2. Very Glitchy on PC
  Thats 
 it!
  I higly reccomend this game. You dont need a war machine Pc to run this game.
  
  -BlackSunshine59 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mephistroth
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 22, 2008 5:35 pm PT
Review:  While Im sure you have heard the single player is surprisingly short, just when you get into it. 
 Its over.. 
  
  SO... If you dont have XBOX Live.. Save Your Money
  
  But!! If you do have xbox live, this game is awe inspiring for many fps's to come hopefully. They 
 reward kills online, with radar, air strikes, and helicopter bonuses. which help out not only you, 
 but your entire team. After so many kills with a weapon you unlike a variety of scopes personally 
 I prefer the red dot sight about 80% of the time. Several different weapon skins. and just other 
 random character bonuses. So it almost feels RPGish when your plowing your way up the ranks.
  
  Now I have found several annoying parts to the game. some of the maps feel like a retarded 
 monkey got to design a small section of it. in which if a wall is in front of you. you go around 
 right? o but wait.. the wall ends.. now theres a house. so you decide.. well ill just go through 
 the house. o wait. now theres an airplane. guess ill go around this airplane. and by now your half 
 a map away, and all you wanted was to be on the other side of the retarded fence. 
  
  Another small annoying factor is the ability to drop a grenade on death after you've attained a 
 certain level. Its highly annoying because if you shoot someone down, by the time you get to the 
 nade and try to toss it. it blows up in your hand! So you run away, possibly take some minor damage, 
 then another guy comes. you shoot him, and another freaken grenade its annoying how much people 
 use this ability. especially in small rooms 
  
  But Other Then those 2 small details the multi-player in this game is amazing go buy it 8)
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: pete0427
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 22, 2008 3:55 pm PT
Review:  Call of Duty 4 Modern Warfare for computer
  It has good sound and sound effects it has good action and good graphics. In my option it is better 
 than Medal Of Honor Airborne because your allies are more careful and more accurate and more deadly. 
 You can call in air-strikes and helicopters and jets later on in the game. It is as hard as Medal 
 Of Honor Airborne, I would recommend those that like this type of game to buy it. But for those 
 of you that want to buy it or those of you that have bought it that are married or single and have 
 kids or little cousins or nephews do not play it in front of them. I liked it the end, nothing 
 more to say. I plan to play this game more, to get better just like I am on medal of honor airborne. 
 So far it is my favorite computer game. I enjoy it very much! The end 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hallowcry
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 22, 2008 1:33 pm PT
Review:  Great single player, but the online was a little dry. I loved the multiplayer at first but after 
 a while it got a little old. The single player experience was really engaging. The whole first 
 act of the game was amazing. To see it on a 1440 900 screen was awesome. The middle act once again 
 visually stunning. The Chernobyl level was the highlight of the game. The final act of the game 
 takes place at the evil guys layer, and to be honest, that was the weakest part of it all. The 
 whole time leading up to it, you are constantly bombarded and outnumbered outgunned. But then at 
 the end the difficulty takes a nose dive. The online aspect was like i said, OK but not great. 
 Early in is good but after a while it just becomes repetitive. The overall package is great. For 
 the price and the fun you get out of it, its well worth it. I love the call of duty series, and 
 this one does not disappoint. You will be impressed by the presentation and execution of the plot 
 and charcters. The enviroments at times feel alive. Despite the carnage all around. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Toriko42
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 22, 2008 3:30 pm PT
Review:  ... But is it a good game? No it's not, it's a superb game worthy of all the accolades it's received 
 and the praise it's been given. Call of Duty 4 takes all the of the short comings of previous Call 
 of Duties and as a sequel should it vastly improves on these and of course adds in a variety of 
 new features and additions to the series. Call of Duty 4 also attempts to reinvent the series with 
 great success. Call of Duty makes a seamless leap from the battlefields of World War 2 to the bombed 
 out middle eastern cities seen in a more modern environment. I'm sure when many people heard of 
 this change they thought about how it would work, well it did and this game feels the same as any 
 of the Call of Duty games before it even though it's set some seventy years in the future from 
 the years World War 2 occurred. 
  
  Call of Duty 4 does something the previous Call of Duties did not, it creates an engaging and intense 
 story line which the player really cares about. You care about all the characters this time around 
 and their fates in the end. The story is also fantastically told and this game has some of the 
 best levels in recent history as seen in "Ghillies in the Mist" or "One shot, one kill". Previous 
 Call of Duty games were essentially you in a squad going through various famous battles of World 
 War 2 and you always win these battles. Call of Duty 4 does something else and it brings you into 
 brand new battles never seen before. Without spoiling anything the events of the stories differ 
 greatly from previous Call of Duties and it is a really good story. 
  
  Of course what would a good story be without upstanding gameplay to back it up. Call of Duty 4 
 by now has pretty much gotten gameplay down to a science as they should. The controls on the PC 
 platform work perfectly and are all easy to use. The shooting feels devastating and everything 
 about it feels so right yet so wrong if that makes sense. The enemy AI in Call of Duty 4 is only 
 as smart as you want it to be, on easy it's downright stupid but on veteran you'll go against some 
 of the most challenging opponents you'll play in any first person shooter. They will attempt to 
 trick you, knife you, grenade you, and take cover. The level design of Call of Duty 4 is linear 
 but it's done well. This is an example of a linear shooter done with success. 
  
  Technically Call of Duty 4 is excellent. The graphics are stellar and look beautiful throughout 
 and the vast variety of environments in the single player really show off what this engine can 
 do. Night environments and day light environments all look great and the explosions and character 
 models look excellent. The sound in this game is also well done, each explosion and gun shot sounds 
 great. The voice acting is also superb, dialogue is well delivered and the script is well written. 
 It makes the story a lot more enjoyable. 
  
  Call of Duty 4 in the end is an excellent game well worth your money. If you crave a game with 
 a good single player this game is worth a buy but hopefully you enjoy multiplayer. The multiplayer 
 is the real lasting factor of the game and it makes the value. It's excellent to say the least 
 and is enjoyable with the addition of ranks, perks, and unlocks. Call of Duty 4 is a game you'll 
 enjoy and it's well worth a purchase as it is one of the most popular games out there right now. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: crysis-matter
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 22, 2008 9:08 am PT
Review:  call of duty 4 is another call of duty game but it is not a world war 2 game but a game set in 
 the modern game (given the title modern warfare) even though the game is super short to has a lot 
 of story in it. The singleplayer is fun but the true fun is the multiplayer. in the multiplyer 
 you can chosse from diffrent classes to play as like a sniper or heavy gunner. after you level 
 some more you get to make our own class like a assult rifle with a silencer and what not. you can 
 also have perks which help you in the game. (if you have a iwmp problem just pluck headphones in 
 a jack it worked for me) the graphics in this game are outstanding. the music is cool it feels 
 like your in a war movie. the only issue is that the game is short someone can probaly beat it 
 in 5 days if they tried. But with the multiplayer you can forget that. if you have never played 
 a call of duty game ever go out and try this one!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: toni_lapy
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 22, 2008 2:55 am PT
Review:  One day I was bored and I didn't what to do, I remembered that I can play CoD4 on my laptop. I opened 
 the application and started playing the game. I was very surprised by quality of graphic and gameplay, story 
 is little bit short, but great. Just like I said graphic is great and gameplay is outstanding. This 
 is currently one of the best first person shooter games. Now I'll say something about story. First 
 you go on training like in all CoD games and after that your first mission is on one big boat, with 
 that two missions you get very introduced with game and that's great, after all of that introducing 
 you go on real missions. You play as Soap MacTavish. First you're in Far East and there you have 
 to kill Zakhaev, but you don't. In whole game you are fighting against Zakhaev and his troops. That 
 is it from me about story. Call of Duty 4 is great and from CoD 5 I except even better game.
  Gameplay:9.5/10
  Story:8.5/10
  Graphic:9.5
  Overall:9/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Doomdragon200
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 17, 2008 5:58 pm PT
Review:  CoD 4.... the latest in the series, and what a great series it has been in this review ill be looking 
 at some of the good/bad things of this game so please take a seat read and enjoy. First i'll start 
 off with the good things as i always do, Call of duty 4 is absolutely beautiful it's graphics are 
 great texture is great just great cod 4 also provides a large amount of weapons and there are many 
 lvl's in the game keeping the experience going for awhile. Cpt. Price is also back for another adventure 
 within the CoD series and is as funny as ever, also i like how instead of just full out war and 
 world war 2 cod finnally took a different direction and made something more terrorist like. To 
 the bad things...... if you are looking for a more story based game with great thought and many 
 twist's cod is not for you not saying that cod doesnt have a good story line just not great. Also 
 there's some weird impossibilty here as much as i like Cpt. Price he has already died twice in the 
 past games.... how the hell does he keep coming back? And the conflict that you play through in 
 the entire game seems like awhile but if you actually keep track and listen to the annoying lady 
 at the end you'll find out it was only 6 days.....6 days?!?! 6 days to take out a global terrorist 
 that had the power of thousands (maby less maby more) at his disposal?!?!
  I dunno just seems almost too impossible for me but in the end it looks like cod pulled it off 
 pretty well. In all cod4 is a great shooter for all those shooter game lovers out there and is 
 fun and very well graphiced (?)
  but if you're looking for a game that has a good storyline and will keep you guessing then this 
 game may not be for you although it does have it's surprises. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xwestsdeaznx
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 17, 2008 3:54 pm PT
Review:  CoD4 is a fun fast pace game that immerses the player into a fictional conflict in the Middle East 
 and Russia. The player will play as a US marine and a SAS operative. The guns look and sound realistic, 
 as well as the world that you use them in. From the wet grass to the dusty pavement you will feel 
 like this is real. Sure it's not a crysis but it is close and sports a distinct graphic feel like 
 no other. The single player is quite straight forward, easy and most importantly FUN! But there 
 are cons to this, the single player is disappointingly short - coming from personal experience 
 I beat this game in one sitting. 
  
  On the other hand, the online experience kept me sitting for days to come, the game offers many 
 modes of gameplay; Search and Destroy, Headquaters, Team deathmatch, free for all, and domination. 
 Also engaging players from around the world come and play in different servers. Modded servers 
 aren't as easy to find as in games like CSS which is a huge downside for those who enjoy playing 
 mods like Zombies and Rifle. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: victorwang
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 17, 2008 3:14 am PT
Review:  This game is: Best in Series! Best in Series! Best in Series! Best in Series! Best in Series! Best in 
 Series! Best in Series! Best in Series! Best in Series! Best in Series! Best in Series! Best in Series! Best 
 in Series! Best in Series! Best in Series! Best in Series! Best in Series! Best in Series! Best in Series! Best 
 in Series! Best in Series! Best in Series! Best in Series! Best in Series! Best in Series! Best in Series! Best 
 in Series! Best in Series! Best in Series! Best in Series! Best in Series! Best in Series! Best in Series! Best 
 in Series! Best in Series! Best in Series! Best in Series! Best in Series! Best in Series! Best in Series! Best 
 in Series! Best in Series! vBest in Series! Best in Series! Best in Series! Best in Series! vvBest in 
 Series! vvBest in Series! Best in Series! Best in Series! Best in Series! Best in Series! Best in Series! Best 
 in Series! vBest in Series! Best in Series! Best in Series! Best in Series! vvvvvBest in Series! Best 
 in Series! Best in Series! Best in Series! Best in Series! Best in Series! Best in Series! vBest in Series! Best 
 in Series! Best in Series!
  
  
  Sorry, ' cause I have to write more than 100 words.
  You know, some computer software maker just -----------------
  I had wrote a long review, but 
 it vanished. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jacob2124
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 16, 2008 4:17 pm PT
Review:  I'll make this review short and simple. This is the best first person shooter out there. Don't 
 get me wrong, Halo 3 is great and I love me some Halo. But when it comes to online play, Call of 
 Duty 4 is the best. 
  Although the story mode was short, it was a great story with non-stop action. One of the best of 
 any FPS. But yes it should have been longer. 
  The multiplayer is almost perfect. With lots of great weapons and the new perks system, you'll 
 really feel like your character fits your style of play. And with all the unlockable weapons and 
 perks, you'll be addicted right off the bat!
  As far as graphics go this is one of the best looking games you'll play, and it sounds great too. 
 So do yourself a favor and get this game!!
  
  Graphics............9.0
  Sound.................8.5
  Controls..............9.5
  Gameplay...........9.5
  Overall.................9.5 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thebigcheese6_6
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 15, 2008 10:37 am PT
Review:  the singleplayer on this game, in my opinion, is a disapointing let down to the game. you cannot 
 preset your weapons and the levels are dissapointingly sport and easy. the online, however, is 
 brilliant. you earn ranks and levels as you play, unlocking new weapons. each weapon can be augmented 
 with different upgrades. the more kills you get you earn air strikes and helicpoter attacks. this 
 means that regardless of your level or skill this game lets you build your skills and get better 
 weapons. 
  the map selection covers every concieveable type of gameplay and allows for many different ways 
 of achiving a objective. One map, shipment, is only 100m by 100m. this leads to intense close quarter 
 gameplay. i never really play online before but i am now completely addicted to it. 
  this game is well worth an investment and will provide hours of interest and noob fragging. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sam_2006
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 15, 2008 9:00 am PT
Review:  CoD4 is one of the best shooters out there, plain and simple; it's got minor issues, but in the 
 end it offers an amazing experience fuled with high tension and great cinematic atmosphere.
  
  The graphics in CoD4 are mindblowing, i'd say that the engine wich runs the game is not as 
 sphisticated or technically supirior to that of Crysis for example, but it definitely delivers 
 a similar experience, especially with the great lighting effects and perfect animations. however, 
 the textures can feel a little bit bland sometimes, but nothing to ruin the beauty of the game. 
 
  
  The gameplay is solid, intense and highly addictive. the single player is short , yes, but Epic 
 and Extremely enjoyable from start to finish. however, the Multiplayer is just a blast and never 
 gets old, not after a while at least. the Perk system adds a lot to the fun of the Multi and the 
 maps are great, not as hughe as Battlefield's maps, but very intact and well designed. The single 
 player is also very intense and has some great replayability value especially with the "Arcade 
 Mode" which unlocks after the first playthrough. This mode allows you to play the whole game or 
 just pick some levels and blast your way through based on a score system; it's addective in its 
 own right. so, in the end you're left with a great package filled with action.
  
  the sound effects are just awesome and never an AK47 sounded that great or real, and the weapons 
 feel and sound strong just as they should be in "Modern Warfare" :) . 
  
  I highly recommend Cod4 to anyone who's looking for a worthwhile experience, it's just among the 
 best Shooters. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: X-Rocky-X
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 12, 2008 1:41 pm PT
Review:  Call of Duty changed hte war, and so changed the enemies, from nazis to separatists rebels, but 
 the enemie wasn't the only thing that changed. Now it was modern warfare, this means new technology, 
 modern weapons and military technology. This game, in my opinion, because i played it :D its a 
 beatufill in graphics, gameplay, history, EVERITHING! The Game history was perfect, you can play 
 as an SAS sargent or as a marine, and there is still time to be a sniper on chernobyl OMG!!! there 
 is everithing in this game, the campaing its short, but then you have the best multiplayer ever, 
 weapon improvements, create your class, high action game, non stop action. WHAT A GAME.
  I've never seen a game like this one, it has everything that an excelent game needs, an excelent 
 single player campaign, and it still has arcade, an multiplayer to die for, omg, its perfect, there 
 for, i give it a clean, perfect 10! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Logolas0
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 12, 2008 6:56 am PT
Review:  This game is by far the best game on the market today because:
  
  1. The campaign is the best looking, has the most detail, is the most fun campaign out of every 
 other game, great graphics and each level is completely original and different.
  
  2. Multiplayer is exceptional - A great leveling system, great control over guns, has very little 
 LAG, has an abundance of game options, has over 20 maps each one being completely unique.
  
  3. Buy this game to have hours and hours of enjoyment, even more fun when played with friends.
 
  
  4. No flaws and campaign is not too short (It makes up for it anyway) so much better than MoH , 
 GTA4 and MGS4.
  
  To sum up, this game has the best campaign although it is slightly too short, by far the most addictive 
 and amazing multiplayer absolutley stunning. !!!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: just_for_kicks
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 12, 2008 1:40 am PT
Review:  After so many WW2 shooters its nice to see the Infinity Ward took a step away from that and tackled 
 something new. Call Of Duty 4: Modern Warfare is set in the present time where a Russian nationalist 
 Imran Zakhaev wishes to take Russia back to Soviet times. Knowing the American government won't 
 allow this a coup is arranged in the Middle East which is operated by his ally Al-Asad to distract 
 the world's attention away from Russia. You play as a British solider in Russia and a American 
 solider in the Middle East to stop this from happening.
  
  Straight away i noticed the great detail they had put into the game, graphics wise and design of 
 textures. The graphics are quite good and have little to no faults for this game. All of the scenery 
 and uniforms are extremely realistic, it like a straight out of a photograph. Over all this game 
 presents itself extremely well.
  
  The single campaign while very good lacked longevity, i was able to finish it in 5 hours. But the 
 story line is great and some levels you can just sit in a tower and pick people off or just run 
 around shoot everyone due to the way the AI is set up (a feature i greatly enjoyed) . There was 
 even a mission where you went back to Chernobyl which was my favorite mission. It had a pretty 
 good atmosphere and cut scenes were executed very well to give certain effects. A great campaign 
 its just a pity it didn't last that long.
  
  After finishing the single player you unlock arcade mode. Arcade mode allows you to replay all 
 the levels with a points system and a timer, the aim to get the highest score with in the best 
 time. This extra is quite fun, giving the single player replay value and does partly make up for 
 it being short.
  
  COD 4's biggest achievement is the online multiplayer. The best multiplayer FPS i have come across. 
 It features a large and excellent range of weapons, good maps and perks which add new flavors to 
 FPS multiplayer. It works of a level system in which you earn points by completing challenges and 
 getting good kill/death ratios to increase in rank. Increasing in rank unlocks new weapons and 
 new items to customize your weapon. This attribute is very addictive and allows the player to customize 
 so they have their own playing style. You can unlock perks to help you out in battle and they have 
 a range to choose from. Also you can call in air strikes after killing 5 people in a row and i 
 helicopter after 7 in a row. 
  
  Only few very minor problems i had with anything with this game and it could be called nitpicking 
 in a sense but still holds back from giving it the highest score.
  - Martydom, a perk in the multiplayer where when you die you always drop a grenade hoping to get 
 the person who just killed you or passers by. It sounds ok in theory but i found it extremely frustrating 
 and a little unfair. It often tends to get your team mates too which really has no up side.
  - Bugs/Glitches, A problem that can happen to any game i realize due to computers being unpredictable 
 but never the less irritating. There was one I got where I have to keep my mic plugged in to play 
 multiplayer, which strikes me as a little odd. Also when I start up the game it tells me that the 
 system settings have changed and that i should let the game 'optimize' the settings for me. Rather 
 then optimizing the settings it reverts them back to default when my PC can run it at full visuals 
 with a high resolution. 
  - Also online is quite unforgiving to lag, for those of us who have internet connections that play 
 up it pretty much stops us from playing when ping is higher then usual.
  
  Apart from those few minor details Call Of Duty 4: Modern Warfare is excellent and refreshing FPS 
 that will keep you entertain for quite a while. A must have for fans of the FPS genre
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: gamefreke
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 9, 2008 9:49 pm PT
Review:  This is without a doubt my favorite game of all time. Awesome graphics, nonstop action. A few hard 
 parts along the way. But this is such an awesome game it doesn't matter. If you like shooting people, 
 and feeling like you are actually in a war, this is the game you play. From blowing stuff up to 
 sniping from a long ways a way this game has it all. If you ask me, this game is a 10.0 no question. 
 Once you start you can't stop. The multiplayer keeps you playing even after you beat the game. 
 I can think of like a million ways to call this game awesome. The game is intense and keeps you 
 on your toes every step of the way. When I finished I was so sad I played the whole game over two 
 more times. Then started playing with friends. If I could recommend a game to anyone that has played 
 a shooter and liked it, I would say this game. This game is awesome in every way. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: naju890_963
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 9, 2008 1:49 pm PT
Review:  It took some time to make the game and finally launch to the hungry war gamers. The game's timeline 
 is in 1940's as you all now in the time the world war two was at its best. But dont expect detailed 
 storyline its over in a blink of and eye. Lets see its goods and bads.
  
  Good: Story is very thrilling and you get very excited. A well made multiplayer that the game is 
 really based on the great multiplayer than the other features. A very entaintaining presatations.
 
  
  Bad. Campaign is very short than other war games like battkefied and medal of honor.
  
  The only fault is the short story line and then you jump to multiplayer to play some real shotter. 
 I cant really tell what you will need on your pc to see those amazing graphics. im going to show 
 other sites what they thought about Call of duty 4 modern warfare.
  
  2404 - PC Gaming 9.5 / 10 
  My Gamer 8.4 / 10 
  Armchair Empire 9.5 / 10 
  Gamers Europe 
 9 / 10 
  Fragland 86 / 100 
  PC Gamer 91 / 100 
  PC Format UK 90 / 100 
  Gamers Temple 96 / 
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: lil_luz_10
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 30, 2009 10:39 pm PT
Review:  I'm going to eliminate the only con of the game first. The single player is very short compared 
 to your average 10-15 hour single player campaign. But thats okay the single player experience 
 as well as awesome online play certainly make up for it.
  
  Every great standard that was showcased in a Call of Duty game is exceeded greatly in Call of Duty 
 4. It is a very, very, good shooter. Its too scary at how good it is. 
  
  *Plot* Infinity/10
  
  Seriously the single player experience is a very good candidate for the 
 best I've ever played. My all time favorite is F. E. A. R. but CoD4 I think just claimed the throne 
 in my opinion.
  
  CoD4 certainly drops you right in the middle of battle. Your not just some Rambo who runs around 
 killing everyone in a war by yourself. You're surrounded by your squad mates and you feel as though 
 you're part of your company fighting to win the battle. This game really captures the intensity 
 of fighting in the Middle East. Activision took a lot of time piecing together memories and stories 
 of real events that happened in these current wars in Afghanistan and Iraq as well as the Gulf 
 War that took place in the early 90s, and some events from the Somali assault (I believe thats 
 the country, its shown in the movie "Black Hawk Down") .
  
  Something that was never shown in previous Call of Duty videogames, was a gruesome, and somewhat 
 very scary story telling. Some events in the game are just too realistic and will definitely make 
 you say "HOLY SH*T". Don't believe me...?
  
  *SPOILER SPOILER SPOILER*
  To start things off you get tied to a pole and then have the dictator walk up to you with his desert 
 eagle and put one right in your face only to have the screen go black....... Its through the eyes 
 of the previous president of that country, but still...... very scary! Not to mention getting hit 
 by a bomb only to have your helicopter spinning around crazy... then to crash only to crawl out 
 of the crash in slow-mo hearing your heart pounding to live out your final moments before you die. 
 
  ***END OF SPOILER***
  
  A great variety of missions. From flying in choppers on the minigun, or being the weapons operator 
 on a spectre gunship, nighttime rescues, and many more.
  
  Its a shame the single player experience ended so fast.
  
  Graphics - 10+++/10
  
  CoD4's 
 lighting effects and graphics are very good. The game is maxed out with all the AA and AF cranked 
 up to full and dang it looks great. You'll enjoy just how good it looks.
  
  *Weapons* - 10+++/10
  
  Every weapon in the game is in real life and done to perfection. Every 
 gun has the right amount of recoil, power, and overall real life feel to it. M4s, AK-47s, Shotguns, 
 Javelins (the uber-awesome U. S. anti-tank weapon) , Sniper Rifles
  
  *Multiplayer* - Very good
  
  Every person has their own assessment on mulitplayers of games 
 but I thought it was pretty sweet.
  
  *Final Thoughts*
  
  Its a shame the single player ends so quickly. It is simply the best when it comes to mission variety 
 and overall remembrance and that urge to replay the campaign. It is disappointing knowing that 
 the new Call of Duty game will go back to the WWII theater but knowing that CoD wants to make their 
 war games as realistic, and intense as possible, then the Japanese WWII theater will certainly 
 showcase it. Call of Duty needs to make another modern warfare game. The single-player missions 
 and story were VERY GOOD, but very short. It would be interesting to see a future warfare Call 
 of Duty. But it is very safe to say CoD4 should be apart of any FPS lovers collection.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: HitmansBullet
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 7, 2008 5:30 am PT
Review:  I had red around 20 reviews when I first decided to buy COD 4, saying the campaign was too short, 
 that the multiplayer was great, that it was a movie-like experience and all that.
  Personally I hate short games, aswell as too long games. I must say the experience was suprisingly 
 good, almost mind-blowing for a first person shooter. I enjoyed it to the very end. But, when is 
 was finished I was wondering if it really was worth all the blockbuster effects and fast-paced 
 action exchanged for the lenght. I mean.. After you have done the story a couple of times (which 
 I did) you`re starting thinking about the story. Was that really that good? Or was I just blinded 
 by the fantastic visuals.
  The multiplayer though, is at good as you can get and is in my opinion one of the best multiplayers 
 of 2007. With this in mind Call Of Duty is a remarkable next-gen game that makes a sweet sweepstake 
 for the fans and those who are new to the series. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: coolchris330
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 3, 2008 11:44 pm PT
Review:  Crack, a bullet shatters the dark night sky, startling you as a barrage of bullets fly over your 
 head, barely missing, knocking your hat off. What do you do? Advance, run, shoot in all directions, 
 hide behind cover?
  These are some of the many choices you will have to make during Call of Duty 4 because it is so 
 intense
  
  In Call of Duty 4, the game is intense, everything is intense, no time to think, machine gunners 
 advancing towards your position, and yet, it is perfectly executed, in such a way that you are 
 not frustrated when you are killed, you want to try again and a different strategy, and, when you 
 die it supply's you with interesting quotes about war, edutainment.
  
  In short, there is nothing wrong with Call of Duty 4, I believe that Call of Duty 4 is one of the 
 games up on a high point with the amazing FPS games like "Half Life" "Half Life 2" and "Call of 
 Duty 1&2" but not Medal of Honor, because I think that Call of Duty should win when compared to 
 Medal of Honour, sadly, it never does take the crown it so dearly deserves.
  
  I say that Call of Duty 4 is a great game!
  10/10! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheXenolith
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 3, 2008 1:32 pm PT
Review:  When you start up this game, it's sex.
  
  From the start this game grabs you and does not let go until the end. This is a game that you will 
 commit to long term memory. This game is an experience not to be missed. The way your AI team carry 
 themselves seamlessly throughout the game, the magnificent soundtracks, the way your enemies go 
 down, is breath taking. Sometimes the events in the game gets so intense that you want to have 
 someone sit beside you because you feel like it's a waste to experience it all by yourself.
  
  The story is very believable and the voice acting is superb. This game is quite literally a 
 great war movie that you can play in. It is a linear game, but so aesthetically pleasing that you 
 don't mind enjoying the action and immerse yourself in it.
  
  It's hard to find something you don't like in this game besides the short single player campaign. 
 But I'd rather have an awesome short game than a long lame one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: VijayKanta
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 3, 2008 12:32 pm PT
Review:  Call Of Duty Modern Warfare took me back to the days of the original Medal Of Honor for PS1, Medal 
 Of Honor Frontline for the PS2, and Medal Of Honor Allied Assault for the PC in gameplay terms 
 and superb quality team work.
  
  All these games have been milestones in my gaming life and Modern Warfare is the latest one.
 
  
  I mean to say, i generally play games, and then i play something like Modern Warfare. I simply 
 cannot explain it, it has to be felt. If you have been waiting to get this game some time later, 
 stop thinking and grab your copy now, cause the money you spend will be worth every penny when 
 you invest on it.
  
  The levels i loved the most were the ones where i had to snipe a bad guy and run with my colleague 
 in the forest and bushes, and the level just before it. Those moments were like something which 
 i rarely experience, not necessarily while playing a video game, but in general too. I simply cannot 
 believe how good and touching the levels were. Top Notch.
  
  Two Thumbs Up to Infinity Ward! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: paullywog
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 2, 2008 11:30 pm PT
Review:  I rented this game on 360 to beat it for achievements and in that way the 360 version is good. 
 But this game's staying power is all about online and when you have to choose between 18 player 
 or 50 player matches there really is no question.
  
  Call of Duty 4 pulls of the same great fun of all games in the series but moves on to a new theater. 
 Fight across the middle east doing something I forget it was a while ago and besides the online 
 is where it's at.
  
  Cod4 is a super intense online game with a lot of maps and game modes. The realism level is perfect 
 because you can maybe get shot and get away if you're lucky so it doesn't feel too cheap. At the 
 same time a quick controlled burst will for sure take someone down. That combined with smooth controls 
 and virtually no glitches with a nice coat of paint makes cod4 the next big PC online game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: soccerboy8
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 2, 2008 11:29 pm PT
Review:  Call of duty 4 is an exciting, thrilling game. However there are many ups and downs to it. The 
 ups are, one, the campaign is long and fun, on xbox live there are so many options, and can take 
 as little as 15 seconds to find a game, the only problem is if you're with a friend, or more. Xbox 
 live on call of duty 4 is only limited to 1 person, even private matches. Local play on one xbox 
 is only 4 players, and that's about it. Although on the call of duty 4 box it says, system link, 
 2-24 players, it is very misleading. Why? because SYSTEM LINK is only 1 PERSON PER TV! Not only 
 did i try it myself, but it says it all over the internet as well. This game is not a party game, 
 but more of a game you just play by yourself. 
  
  Call of duty 4 is no doubt, a fun game. It is defiantly worth buying, and is even better when your 
 friends have call of duty 4 as well. The only downfall, is that you can't really have fun with 
 it when you have more then 1 person playing it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MajinBuXL
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 1, 2008 11:17 pm PT
Review:  This game completly blows the other CODs out of the water. I mean, the story is just absurdly well 
 done. The cinematics are amazing. The environments are crazy detailed. The guns all feel unique 
 when you fire them. And finally... your part of a team throughout the whole game. FINALLY.
  
  Everything just fits in place in this game so well that you wish all other games were like 
 this. Lol the poor guy that said BF2 was better really has no idea what hes talking about since 
 this is PRIMARELY a single player game. But still, i think the multiplayer in this is better than 
 BF2 anyway.
  
  The single player is just so beautifully orchestrated that it feels like you're playing through 
 a movie rather than a video game. The voiceovers and situations really help with that.
  
  I love what they did with the load screens too. All games should have that aspect. Makes loading 
 times feel like nothing since your paying attention and watching at the same time.
  
  Also, i wont reveal anything since the surprise completly made it for me, but the fact that you 
 get to be one of those big baddies in one of the levels really made me say "Oh my GOD" while i 
 was playing since i thought it was such a cool and unique idea. I love how they made it so realistic 
 too. 
  
  The game is just amazing in thousands of ways. Its a must have for any gamer. Get it, you wont 
 regret it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 34ddd
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 1, 2008 9:07 pm PT
Review:  Great Game and I love the new maps..... ...... ...... ..... .............. ....... .... . ..... 
 ............ ................ .... ...... .. ...... ....... . .... .... . ...... ..... ... ..... 
 ... ... ... ... .... ... .... ... . . . . .. ...... ..... ... ... ... .... .... .... .... ... . 
 ... .... . ..... .... . ... .... . . . ..... .... .... .... .... ... .... .... ... .... .... .... 
 ..... .... ..... .... .... .... . . . ... . ...... ...... .... .... ..... .... .... ...... .... 
 .... . ... . .... ..... ...... ..... .. .. . .. ... . .... and so on :) and so on :) and so on 
 :) and so on :) and so on :) and so on :) and so on :) and so on :) and so on :) and so on :) and 
 so on :) and so on :) and so on :) and so on :) and so on :) and so on :) and so on :) and so on 
 :) and so on :) and so on :) and so on :) and so on :) and so on :) and so on :) and so on :) and 
 so on :) and so on :) and so on :) and so on :) and so on :) and so on :) and so on :) and so on 
 :) and so on :) and so on :) and so on :) and so on :) and so on :) and so on :) and so on :) and 
 so on :) and so on :) and so on :) and so on :) and so on :) and so on :) and so on :) and so on 
 :) and so on :) and so on :) and so on :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: natehamm
Rating: 2
Date: Jul 1, 2008 4:03 pm PT
Review:  after playing for al ost 40 hours i gotta say this game has the most watered down gameplay in mutiplayer 
 ive ever seen. put aside that there is at a min of 2 -4 hackers per server. also u got the ones 
 who donothign but charge and throw their nades and die.
  
  outside of single player the game isnt much good its nothign but throw nade die get spawn naded 
 to death rince and repeat. even thou bf2 is over 2 years more older than it bf2 still beats cod4 
 easily in catergory of mitiplayer shooter.
  teamwork in cod4 there is none cause 99% the time they leave u to die. guns are not very realistic 
 from a distace of 5 feet sprayign with a ak47 u can completly miss the other guy 9 of 10 trys.
 
  
  my opinion wait for bf3 this game is just a hold over they made for money till the cod world war 
 comes out.
  
  cod3 and 2 i loved them cod4 worst of entier series they just trying to copy bf2 with little success 
 at it 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pletsky
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 1, 2008 11:58 am PT
Review:  The is the 1st game i've installed on my new laptop, and it plays f**ing good! The campaign is 
 shorter than the Call of Duty's before, but the Multi-player mode is much better than those before. 
 I love the Call of Duty games and my favourite genre of games is the FPS.
  
  The graphics are surprising good, i tought the graphics would only that good on a PS3 with a HD 
 tv. But I've seen now it is also possible on a computer (even on a laptop) . The soud is also very 
 good, the appropriate songs and background song at the correct moment. The guns look and sound 
 very realistic, also the grenades are much better. The guys look very realistic. A very cool thing 
 is the return of Capt. Price. The guy is very chill and I just like the character. Another good 
 point is the end, when the SAS and the USMC are fighting together, and when you can hear very good 
 the difference in their accents.
  
  I just love the game and I love the Call of Duty series.
  Activistion, we salute you!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Benjamin19
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 1, 2008 6:34 am PT
Review:  Call of duty 4: MODERN WARFARE suggests a battlefield similar to the one we're faced with in the 
 news each day. The weapons are equal to ours and the level of technology is also the same, so why 
 isn't it exactly a complete synchronization with our modern warfare? The story is the answer:
 
  The game is set partly somewhere in something-ghanistan and partly in Russia. -Ghanistan is in 
 revolt, their national leader just executed by the coming villain of the game : Al-khazad.. or 
 something like it. He has evil intentions with the world.. nukes and everything, and so the US 
 decides to send troups into the land to make peace... sound very similar to our world, eh. So far 
 so good. Likewise you control a soldier in S. A. S who works with the whole unwravelling of the evil 
 plot, and they're the one who pushes the story on, while the US army are simply foot-soldiers. 
 
  
  To not reveal too much, I'll cut the story down to an evaluation.
  In relation to realism and what could actually happen, the game follows the boundaries of realism 
 quite well until the end. In the last section of the game, you'll begin to draw the conclusion 
 that the designers decided to make a transition into the upcoming Bond movie. It crosses what it's 
 supposed to do, and it breaks the realism illusion. Other than that, the ending does give you a 
 nasty taste in the mouth, because you're confronted with the less cool sides of war. They twisted 
 the plot just before the credits so they got the message of "War is bad" through.
  
  Other than the story, the singleplayer is intense, but aside from the vehicle missions then you 
 might find it repetive.
  
  Moving on to the multiplayer now.
  
  The multiplayer section of the game, is in greater focus than the previous titles of COD. Infact 
 more than most games. You're offered things in MP that you're not in SP. For example you have some 
 so-called "perks" which are basically abilities. Such as more power to your bullets, a greater 
 penetration through walls, and other helpful things that can be changed depending on your tactics. 
 
  
  A great deal of weapons also, with some minor balancing issues, added together with customization 
 options makes this game quite good seen in the aspect of online fun. Personally I like how they've 
 taken an old concept of shooting through walls and tripled it, so it actually works to perfection.
 
  I swear, never have I been more satisfied, than when I pull out a power-house sniper and shoot 
 through two walls to kill an enemy.
  
  The game has very few flaws, but the general impression is great.
  Somewhere between 9 and 9.5. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: benx009
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 29, 2008 5:50 pm PT
Review:  Loved everything about this game, nothing about it disappointed me, especially since I'm a big 
 fan of FPSs. But yeah, the story, the musical score, the voice acting and, of course, the graphics 
 were all incredibly well done. I wish I had been part of the Infinity Ward team that made this, 
 I would have felt like I had really accomplished something. Admittedly, the story was a little 
 blown out of proportion at times (I mean, terrorists having access to nuclear warheads that can 
 kill 41 million Americans in the next ten minutes?? come on) , and the game did kinda seem a little 
 racist towards people of Middle Eastern background (just shut up and play the game before you argue) , 
 but it was still well-done. Could've been longer though lol... a lot longer, seeing as how I beat 
 it all in one day: p Still, solid 9.5/10 from me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dib9394
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 1, 2008 11:19 am PT
Review:  It's been a while since I haven't got Call of Duty 4. I then purchased it on Steam. After all that 
 downloading, and played it, it's one of the most impressive and most amazing video games I have 
 ever played.
  
  The story is about you playing as either S. A. S and U. S. M. C. against Khaled Al-Asad and his commanding 
 revolutionary forces in the Middle East and an ally of Imran Zakhaev; and Victor Zakhaev, the son 
 of Imran Zakhaev and a priority figure in the Ultranationalist party. The gameplay is extremely 
 thrilling and unexpected. It makes you focus on covering and aim for the enemy. The enemy are mostly 
 soldiers rather then dogs. When your enemies are injured they fall down on the floor trying to 
 shoot you with their pistol but hopefully you kill them. They also interact with the wall when 
 injured. Everything in the game is impressive in a smart way.
  
  Sometimes during gameplay, you do stealth and attack either way depending on how you do it. Two 
 of them is being in the grass using camouflage and hiding from helicopters.
  
  When your allies are infiltrating a house by blowing up or opening the door by rush or slowly, 
 they kill or the enemies in the house or just let their gun peak through the door and enter. Yours 
 enemies won't do the same but once you enter in a house, they open the door and shoot their gun 
 with the rest of their body unexposed. You can either flush them out with a grenade or shoot them 
 the hard way.
  
  The weapons in the game are cool. Most of them are limited air support such as helicopters and 
 jet bombers, C4s and claymores (bombs) , grenades and flash bangs and the rest are guns using silencers 
 or grenade launchers.
  
  The multiplayer was great as you work together to defeat the opposing team in many tactics. Though 
 there's a little of bugs in the multiplayer.
  
  The AI is great as they take cover, attack, infiltrate and more others! Except when the enemies 
 kill you, they keep shooting your dead body but really isn't any matter.
  
  The enemies in the game are always soldiers with guns and abilities to take cover. There's dogs 
 in the game that the enemy mostly uses against you. When they jump and try to kill you, you kill 
 them before they bite and tear your flesh off.
  
  The graphics are also awesome. Everything looks great and realistic with the light effects, water 
 effects, model and texture quality, depth of field, etc...
  
  The biggest problem in the game is that it's actually short but the epic gameplay enjoyment can 
 entertain you while it lasts. It may be short, but this amazing video game will offer an incredible 
 and thrilling experience ever in the series.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ashblade
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 27, 2008 7:52 am PT
Review:  I was a CoD2 junky for a long time. That is, untill i heard of Call of Duty 4.
  
  After watching the trailers, I quickly rushed to my wallet to find - nothing. I was broke. Over 
 the next few months before the release, I sadly watched gameplay movies and hoped that somehow, 
 I could play CoD4.
  
  Then I realised Christmas was coming. Duh.
  
  SINGLE PLAYER
  ------------------------------
  When I first got the game, our internet wasn't working, so I 
 quickly tackled the single player campaign. The gameplay was magnificent. The storyline was a bit 
 cliche, but still on par. I loved it. But then, i realized - it was over. I had finished the single 
 player campaign in one day. Too short for my liking. However, it was still very run while it lasted.
 
  
  MULTI PLAYER
  -----------------------------
  Now, this is where the game really shined. I zoomed to 55. And then I realized, there was so much 
 more to do. I had done only half of the challenges, and had very few camos. Over the next few months, 
 i had endless hours of fun training my sights on a noob's head, and getting that Red Tiger. Even 
 now, i still don't have every challenge. That's what makes the game so fun!
  
  However, a problem I have is with noobs. In CoD2, i stayed away from the Russian maps because noobs 
 sprayers would constantly gang you with their PPsH's. I personally perferred the scope - a weapon 
 of true skill. But, in CoD4, giant clips are all over the place. Not only that, but semi-automatic 
 1 hit kills snipers? I decided to immediatly stay away from pubs.
  
  
  In other words, CoD4 is probably the best game in the series. Now, back to getting Red Tiger on 
 the skorpion. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: -P4R4D0X-
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 27, 2008 6:16 am PT
Review:  I've played Call Of Duty games before, and as a rule I'm not a big FPS fan (with the expection 
 of Half Life 2, Metroid Prime 3, and now, Call of Duty 4) , but this beats them all hands down, 
 and, at the risk of having a lot of people hate me, is the best FPS game that I have ever played.
 
  
  Great gameplay, partly realistic, partly game-friendly. Great graphics, very atmospheric. Great 
 story, much better than "retelling" WW2. Great characterisation, as with all CoD games, you really 
 identify with your fellow soldiers, and everybody has a well defined personality.
  
  Theres basically nothing I can say about the game that will do it justice. It was fun, challenging, 
 engaging, atmospheric, and at times it was gut wrenching. It doesn't redefine the genre, but it 
 does everything it attempted to do, and everything a great game SHOULD do, near enough to perfect 
 that it doesn't need to.
  
  I know a lot of people hated the ending, but personally, I loved it. That end sequence had me on 
 the edge of my seat, with butterflies in my stomach, and a feeling of sheer bittersweet relief 
 when it finished. I wont put up any spoilers, but it was brilliant.
  
  Its a shame that Call of Duty 5 is going back to a past theatre, because I think that Infinity 
 Ward can do so much better than that. With this game they proved that they can create good scenarios 
 and storylines, not just "retell" them.
  
  I feel like giving this game anything less than a 10 is a crime. Basically what I'm saying is, 
 if you want to experience an incredible FPS experience, Call of Duty 4: Modern Warfare is a game 
 you can't go past. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bodyhugger79
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 24, 2008 1:12 am PT
Review:  I was amazed how the CALL OF DUTY 2 delivers the game. So I decided to get the CALL OF DUTY 4 (sorry 
 us PC games, COD3 is not available for PC) to enjoy the battle between the modern ages.
  
  Amazing cinematics, lightings and graphics are superb, situations are real, gameplay are limited 
 to selected areas only. As the game goes, you got no option to skip the pace (since every moves 
 should be in the script of the level) . You cannot open doors just like the common FPS game out 
 there, grab grenades, or collecting ammo for your selected firepower. Just like the old Call of 
 Duty series, less strategy yet enjoyable.
  
  Teamwork is the game of war. Because no one attacks alone.
  
  I've tested this game under AMD 
 Athlon64 X2 4000+, 1GB memory, GeForce 8600GT 256MB GDDR3 / 512MB DDR2 in a 22" LCD monitor. Expected 
 framerates with this machine with 1680x1050 resolution will be 30fps (no Anti-Aliased) while 40fps 
 on 1024x768 resolutions (No Anti-Aliased) .
  
  I am only playing campaign mode since I got no cables, internet, wireless connections to be part 
 of multiplayer game. But if we talk about the battleground of CALL OF DUTY 4, sure that multiplayer 
 is more enjoyable than the other FPS Combat Multiplayer (F. E. A. R., DOOM 3, COUNTER-STRIKE, HALF-LIFE, 
 HALO, MEDAL OF HONOR or BATTLEFIELD series) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: The_Dunc_man
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 23, 2008 6:51 pm PT
Review:  The call of duty series is aready good. This new installment makes it way better. The story line 
 is good and interesting but still short. It could have been longer but was still fun. The best 
 part was the muliplayer by far. With many different kinds of game modes, rules, and maps it gave 
 a good selection. The on-line play was even better. With about 12 players, customisable weapons 
 and weapon sets you can't go wrong. In the online play there are also challenges to keep you at 
 work. Some are very hard to complete such as 150 head shots with a shot gun. One thing bad about 
 this game is there are two story lines of both the British S. A. S and the U. S Marines. The story 
 line of the U. S marines ends at a cliff hanger when you don't know what happens to Paul Jackson 
 after a bomb explodes blowing up a city. But aside from that the story line make sense and the 
 campain was fun but as I mentioned before short. The campain had it's hard parts. One very hard 
 one was when two enemies shot at you from two different hallways on both your flanks. If you are 
 stuck on that part I'll tell you what to do. Throw a stun grenade down one of the hallways stunning 
 one of the enemies. Then go to the other hallway and shot the other guy. Quickly then spin around 
 and shot the last guy. If the enemy you stunned recovers before you can take him out, go back to 
 cover and stun him again. The bottom line is call of duty 4 is for sure worth playing and if you 
 haven't already done so you should. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: aznhayato7
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 23, 2008 6:13 pm PT
Review:  Call of Duty 4 is flat out one of the best FPS games ever made. It offers all of the mechanics 
 of the previous games in the series but in present time, which is just the change the series needed 
 for it to really take off. 
  Campaign
  As a player, you are thrown into battle playing as both the S. A. S and the Marine Corp. The campaign 
 offers detailed event plots and gives an accurate presentation of Modern Guerrilla warfare. Allies 
 also have much characterization, making the game feel immersive. There is much replay value in 
 the campaign, with many difficulty levels.
  Multiplayer
  One of the best multiplayer games out on any platform, whether its the PS3, PC, or Xbox 360. There 
 are many game types to choose from as well as a well developed ranking system. Many unlockables 
 to unlock as well, which propels you to keep playing. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bogeyman009
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 23, 2008 3:50 am PT
Review:  The best FPS I have ever played. The action in this game never stops, all missions are impressive 
 and the graphic interface is amazing.
  
  This is a new turn in Call of Duty series because this time you won't be a warrior in WW II. With 
 this sequence Call of Duty opens modern war theme. The player will have to play for British SAS 
 and USA marines. 
  
  The story isn't very unique it is just related with daily topicality: war on terror and etc. Most 
 action of this game takes place in Middle East, where you need to be on the front line of your 
 squad and cope with a lot of enemies. My favourite mission was when you were set 15 years back 
 and need to be a sniper in Chernobyl territory. As I said earlier, action in this game never stops 
 the game just takes all your mind and you can't pull away from the PC.
  
  The graphic interface of this game is amazing, but the game runs well and frame rate is steady. 
 This game has a lot of cinematography: the intro mission of Call of Duty looks like entering scene 
 of a new Hollywood, action movie, while the final chapter of the game recalls good war drama endings.
 
  
  So, this is just the best action FPS I have ever played and every fan of such games must try this 
 game.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: dslyderink
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 22, 2008 11:25 pm PT
Review:  I won't blabber on about the game in intricate detail, there's plenty of other reviews that do 
 - suffice to say this game will blow your mind and make you sh1t your pants on more than one occassion 
 - it's so very realistic at one point I thought I was going to have heart palpitations I was that 
 stressed trying to rescue a wounded soldier.
  
  No shooter graphically comes near this - photorealistic is all I can say.
  
  Sound, gameplay, 
 structure of the campaign - all just perfect. Yeah it's short, but since when did volume beat quality?
 
  
  Each gun feels perfectly balanced, and there's plenty of carnage to indulge in with RPGs, Rocket 
 Launchers, Airstrikes, C4, flashbang, grenades, the list goes on and on.
  
  I have only dabbled in the online multi-player, and it looks very solid and with much more depth 
 than CS. I'd put it up there with Team Fortress 2, although it's not as humorous.
  
  All up 9.5/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: axelei
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 20, 2008 3:53 pm PT
Review:  The first thing one could thing about this new Call of Duty can and will be "oh no, it's not about 
 the WWII". You think you'll miss the epic, the i'm-on-the-war feeling, but not even close. This 
 game will take you deeper in war than any shooter, making more "woooah"s per minute than any game 
 before. It may not have the technology achievements of Crysis, but the game will run in almost 
 every decent computer.
  
  The single player campaign is all a gamer could desire: Frenetic combat scenarios, sharpshooter 
 scenes, death from above... Not only the game has everything but every stage of the game is as 
 it should be. The story is not that important here, you'll forget it as soon as you begin to suffer 
 and enjoy the war.
  
  But you complete the game. What now? Time for online playing. This is one of the most balanced 
 and debugged games ever, not to mention the fun it is. The rank system is awesome, and the customizable 
 weaponry makes every match unique.
  
  Conclusion, best 35 I've spent this year on entertainment. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DryvBy4Ever
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 20, 2008 5:42 am PT
Review:  + Amazingly terrific multiplayer! Not only does it feature stats (which are cool) but plenty of 
 fun achievements to get per weapon. It's hard to go to other shooters for multiplayer when this 
 one wins the cake (sorry for the Portal reference) .
  + Single player feels like a cinematic masterpiece, borrowing heavily from the television series, 
 24.
  - Single player is a tad short (6-8 hours) and leaves you wanting more, even with it's terrific 
 ending.
  - For PC gamers, the stats system isn't stored on a system service like it is on the console brothers.
 
  
  I've been playing the Call of Duty series since the beginning, the original PC release. I've enjoyed 
 every single one and actually have played them through more than a few times. The multiplayer in 
 all of them have been extremely impressive. I'm probably one of the few minor people that aren't 
 sick of the WWII games. I love them. I just hate that they all are the same exact thing. At least 
 Return to Castle Wolfenstein took a different approach. However, Call of Duty has always been fun 
 because it's not you, storming the beach or covering D-Day each time. They put you through many 
 different eras and civilizations that battled in the war. I mean, it's not WWII because Germany 
 fought America, right? It's a world war meaning there were Russians, Brits, and the cowardly French 
 (sorry about that) . Call of Duty pits you with all of them, even the forgotten Canadians. Each 
 of the games have had the same "feel" and the same cinematic storyline. However, when Call of Duty 
 4's first big trailer hit the scene, I knew we'd moved onto bigger and better things. Modern warfare.
 
  
  Call of Duty 4 pits you against our current "Nazis" of the world: terrorist. While fighting, you 
 take the lead of two soldiers in a more 'at-home' war in Iraq. One soldier is America and one is 
 British. Both are in for a world of hurt. As far as the single player, there's always that sort 
 of "Aww, it's over..." that I've had with the games. Mainly because I hate anything to end if it's 
 really good. It's only a really bad thing when the thing you never want to end ends quicker than 
 hoped or expected. Call of Duty 4 manages to keep your attention with it's quick gameplay and great 
 story, but before you know it, it's all over after around 6-8 hours, even on Veteran mode. As far 
 as the missions, they're very well designed but from a standpoint of what the Call of Duty series 
 used to be, the missions seem shorter and more linear than before. There's a few missions that 
 break away from the 'spray and pray' gameplay from the first few missions. For instance, one mission 
 pits you in the seat of a gunship miles above the sky while you watch your team to safety, pepper 
 spraying enemies with heavy machine guns and bombs. It's fun but with the constant commentary, 
 the mission becomes a bore after a short time. One of the best missions is found in the middle 
 of the game, where you are a very well disguised sniper following another sniper through a wooded 
 area, taking our guard post and even laying perfectly still through a patrol of tanks and guards 
 while they walk and roll right around/over you. It's the juice of the game. Don't get me wrong, 
 the single player is something to be played, it's just you'll want more game after it's over, more 
 than ever. It's probably a perfect experience for console gamers, but for some of us PC gamers 
 out there, the game will feel more arcade-y than some of the previous Call of Duty games we're 
 used to. I'd wished they had made the game for PC and ported it to console myself.
  
  Once you beat the game (or if you don't even want to beat it) you can load up the multiplayer, 
 which in my opinion, is the meat and potatoes of the game. It's not only fun and addictive because 
 of the gameplay, it's because the maps are so well put together and the ranking system. It's an 
 amazing unique multiplayer. It's familiar, yet tweaked enough to be entirely new to some. The ranks 
 go to level 55, which would take a good while to get to unless you play for a week straight. For 
 the console owners, you get the option to cash in your level 55 badge for a special badge next 
 to your name, however, sacrificing your rank and guns collected. But hey, that gives you a week 
 more of gameplay to get all that stuff back. Unfortunately, this feature was left out for PC users. 
 Why, I just don't know. The unique thing about the multiplayer is the rewards you get for getting 
 kill streaks. A 3 kill streak will give you a radar scanner for 30 seconds. A 5 kill streak gives 
 you a jet call-in to drop bombs on a selected area. A 6 kill streak gives you a personal helicopter 
 that will just go around blowing everyone away. It's a new take on an old formula. Each gun is 
 customizable in the Create-a-Class mode. You pick your weapons, weapons attachments, grenades, 
 and then your perks. People familiar with Fallout already know what perks are but for those who 
 haven't played one of the best RPG's ever, let me explain. A perk would be something benefiting 
 you during combat. For instance, one perk is the ability to have more health, or have extra clips. 
 There's a good list of perks you get to unlock, giving your multiplayer character it's own special 
 ability. My personal favorite is Martyrdom, which when you die, you drop a grenade. It's the perfect 
 revenge solution to the guy who just knived you in the back while you were getting a headshot with 
 your rifle.
  
  Overall, I think Call of Duty 4 is one of the best games of 2007 hands-down. It's a great story, 
 a great multiplayer game, and well worth the money. The guys did a terrific job, yet again. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ut40755
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 19, 2008 9:18 pm PT
Review:  the multiplayer side is nothing new. play, gain exp, get better weapons, blah blah blah. For some 
 reason, it is extremely addicting. Of course you will get the amazing bunny hoppers here and there, 
 but for some reason, unlike any other shooter online, i feel like everyone is on a similar playing 
 field. Maybe because anyone who has a comp that can run this is a "hardcore" gamer, and everyone 
 is just that good, or it's just a rather casual game. very addicting, very awesome online.
  
  singleplayer is where the game lacks a bit, but come on, single player shooters had their time, 
 and unless its something amazing, whatever. the gameplay is very similar to that of the other call 
 of dutys, just much shorter. the story line is rather dramatic and really places you in the shoes 
 of your 2 characters. its not exactly "short," but in this day and age where it took me almost 
 a month to beat GTAIV, it comes up a bit skimpy, very beatable a 2 days time.
  
  overall, if ur buying this for online play, DO SO. if ur playing single player, wait for a price 
 drop. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: d_originaldappa
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 19, 2008 9:09 pm PT
Review:  What more can I say that's already been said. This game grabs a whole of most normal parts of shooters 
 and perfects it. 
  
  Firstly, the cinematics are overwhelming. At moments you find yourself not playing and just looking 
 at what's happening around you. I've even killed myself to reload a checkpoint and experience that 
 part again. The awesome part about it is that these weren't cut scenes. In game action along with 
 intelligent AI makes these cinematic parts what they are, beautiful.
  
  The AI. You rarely see AI that has you marveled at what they do. Levels can be dealt with differently 
 and you can't not admire the fact that an enemy would fire an RPG directly at you.
  
  Amazing graphics, 60fps+, wow!
  
  Multi player is great. Leveling up, air strikes all make 
 the multi player experience so much more of a treat.
  
  Superior sound design. incredible gun play, a masterpiece.
  
  The SP campaign was a little 
 short. The level of re playability of these levels makes it longer than most non opened world games. 
 
  Some people complain of no vehicle control and stuff like that but I say, would I rather have lame 
 missions just for the sake of having it, or having game developers perfect a few of the gameplay 
 elements. 
  
  I'll go for perfection! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zero030
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 18, 2008 3:55 pm PT
Review:  It's been awhile since i've really been immersed into a pc shooter (see half-life 2) but this game 
 has done a perfect job. Well I've put 40-100 hours for time spent because of its awesome multiplayer, 
 that said it's single player took me a weak 6 hours. Although every one of those hours were extremely 
 well polished it is still pretty pitiful in length. Multiplayer is also a big surprise with its 
 addicting gameplay that will keep having you come back. The ranking system in the game is based 
 off points you get from doing things in game like, killing an enemy, call in radar for your team, 
 and taking down an enemy helicopter. With these points your rank goes up and every rank you earn 
 something that come be a gun to a perk for one of your custom classes. All in All COD4 is a experience 
 that shouldn't be missed because well it's very, very good. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: -Origin-
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 15, 2008 3:10 pm PT
Review:  Call of Duty 4: Modern Warfare is the forth installment in the call of duty franchise and continues 
 to make the name Call of Duty shine and be remembered by gamers. 
  
  The single player aspect of the game is a very action packed ride that has a lot of good flow between 
 the two soldiers you play as. The story is immersive and really shows you what it's like through 
 the eyes of a soldier. It's not as long as most single player first person shooters but it's all 
 quality and all action which really makes up for the lack of time spent playing the single player.
 
  
  But to be honest, you wouldn't buy a call of duty 4 just for the single player. The popular call 
 of duty multi player is introduced this time with a much more deep and innovative way of playing. 
 First of all you can customize up to five sets which consist of your primary weapon, secondary 
 weapon, grenades and a choose from a list of perks to suit your class best. Multi player modes 
 are different in their own ways making it fun to rotate between tactics depending on which game 
 type your playing. But one of my favorite things about the multi player was the hardcore setting. 
 When creating your own server you can toggle on or off the hardcore setting, this removes your 
 hud, crosshair and xp bar, leaving you with a full field of vision. The hardcore setting also makes 
 weapons much more deadlier and realistic, making weapons able to kill with just one or two shots 
 making you have to think whether your next step will get you killed.
  
  In conclusion call of duty 4: modern warfare is a very good and rewarding game, filled with amazing 
 features and a good sense of playing level for everyone. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lanesade
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 15, 2008 2:11 am PT
Review:  This game is great.
  I really enjoyed this one. Single player was lots of fun ... all be it short. The multi player 
 experience is really solid. You feel that you are very much in control of your character. When 
 you aim well .. you hit, when you aim badly, you miss and you know it was YOU missing ... not an 
 internet glitch or lag.
  
  My only gripe, and it's one bad enough for me to stop playing for now, is the total lack of new 
 maps of the PC version.
  I know there is a map pack for the console versions. But I just hate shooters on the 360. The jury 
 is still out on the PS3 ... only just got one. 
  
  But the existing maps for the PC version have run there course and we need new ones. 
  
  The 
 game needs new maps BADLY.
  
  Other than that ... in my humble opinion, this is a kick ass game. 
  Beautiful graphics with 
 fantastically fun play.
  I'm a CG artist and I have to say... It's so nice ... I'm genuinely jealous :) .
  This is one 
 of the most gorgeous games Ive ever seen.
  
  A worthy addition to your collection. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RedneckGamer87
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 12, 2008 12:23 am PT
Review:  Gameplay: No developer has had more success in recreating the tension and terror of a battlefield 
 than Infinity Ward. Its founding members helped define the World War II genre with the groundbreaking 
 Medal of Honor: Allied Assault while the first title developed under the Infinity Ward label, Call 
 of Duty. Set in modern times, the title breaks the mold of previous CoD titles in other ways as 
 well. Instead of facing down Nazi Germany or Imperial Japan, terrorists are the order of the day. 
 The game avoids any uncomfortably weighty questions of nationality by placing the conflict in fictionalized 
 nations, but the themes will be familiar to anyone who has read the newspaper lately. What makes 
 these confrontations even more meaningful is that, like in previous Infinity titles, we get to 
 see the conflict from multiple angles. In this case, by swapping between British and American troops 
 as they work to quell the epic conflict boiling on the edge of the Middle East and former USSR. 
 Finally you are not only using WW2 weapons but finally get to use more current weapons such as 
 the G3 rifle. I felt the characters were better developed in CoD 2, you'll find yourself appreciating 
 recognizable voices and names over the course of the game. There is a multiplayer part of course. 
 It's very addictive to play and you get to play all the maps that were in the single player game. 
 Of course there is the usuall deathmatch, team deathmach and so on. But most intriguing is its 
 online 'character' development system, which takes some of the great ideas used in Battlefield 
 2 to the next level and the multiplayer portion rivals that of Halo 3.
  
  Graphics: Graphics are top notch in this game. Everything is well detailed and colored that it 
 is just eye candy to watch. What eles is there to say about the graphics? Well also the cut scenes 
 are nicely done too. Like one of thoughs modern war flick movies.
  
  Sound: The sound is really well done in this game, The gun fire, explotions, soundtrack and everything 
 in between are very well done in Call of Duty 4.
  
  
  Value: All in all this game has a high replay value in both the single and multiplayer parts of 
 the game and It's very addictlive. I would highly recommend this game for first person shooter 
 fans. I give this game 9.0 out of 10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Skellington25
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 11, 2008 3:47 pm PT
Review:  Call of duty 4 is easily the best shooter ive played so far.. campaign was short but entertaining, 
 multiplayer picked up for it making it the longest game ive ever played... no down sides for this 
 game from me.. very fun and very long.. getting 10th prestige and all the golden weapons will take 
 you forever.. but thats a good thing.. you wont get bored. The graphics are simply AMAZING, the 
 best ive seen yet. Blood is realistic. There is only one bad part on multiplayer and its the f@gs 
 that run around with modded controllers, therefore single shot weapnons are rapid fire for them. 
 Other than that this game is perfect. You cant get better than this. The create a class makes the 
 multiplayer very fun. all different kinds of weapons that let you experiment to what you think 
 your best with. your guaranteed to switch around a bit. prestige is the only hard decision to make 
 in this game.. ive been playing for quite a while and im only 2nd prestige. been playing for a 
 while just not frequently. but you will get some people dropping their jaws when your running around, 
 gold star, gold ak47... guaranteed. Lets just hope Treyarch doesnt screw up the 5th one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Chilean_demon
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 11, 2008 3:39 pm PT
Review:  I play Call of duty since the first one and it was great, the call of duty 2 was a great adventure 
 too with the tanks and all of that (expansion have planes) and call od duty 3 give you a little 
 more of World War II.
  
  BUT FINALLY (like Dwayne "the rock" Johnson) the give us a MASTERPIECE, no more OLD WEAPONS!!!! 
 they just let us play with the latest machine gun, guns and sniper rifle in the world. They let 
 us feel like we where part of the army in Bosnia- Hezegovina, Afganistan and some countries like 
 that. There is so much fun now in Call of Duty 4, so much thing who made it the best title ever 
 made by Activision.
  
  The bad part of the game is: THERE IS SO MUCH FUN IN THIS GAME, TANH YOU REALLY COMPLETE THE GAME 
 SO SOON..... i mean its too short for a kind a game like these, I was expecting more campains 
 like in call of duty 2. And cant wait now for the new one (I hope they kept sending us MODERNS 
 WARS) .
  
  The playability is great, the graphics are delicious and if you a have a 7.1 soundcard you can 
 almost feel the bombs around you (for me is my SOUNDBLASTER AUDIGY SE 7.1) . The best mission is 
 in Chernobyl with onlye one partner and feel like a real sniper.
  
  I mean you can have games like CRYSIS with graphics made for a NASA COMPUTER (CRYSIS is great too, 
 but is different) or you can have Call of Duty 4 for a regular video card (Nvidia 6600) .
  
  I just can say: I EXPECT THE EXPANSION SOO MUCH!!!!!!!!!!!!
  
  Aaaaaa and the other bad thing 
 is after you played CALL OF DUTY 4, all the other war shooters (besides crysis) feel so old and 
 boring with the same old weapons and nazi enemies. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: reduserisk
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 10, 2008 3:04 pm PT
Review:  Overall, COD4 is an excellent game, and that is coming from a die hard counterstrike fan. With 
 that, lets look at the good and bad:
  
  GOOD: The graphics are phenomenal and really offer the player that sense of realism and submersion 
 that they should expect when playing a top notch shooter. Animations and gun models look stunning 
 and make you really feel like you've got the weapon in your hands. Customization options that can 
 be unlocked as you rank up also give the player a chance to customize the look of the weapon and 
 add other gadgets as they rank up as well, like scopes, silencers etc.. The ability to choose three 
 perks is also a great addition that allows you to tweak your play style to your liking depending 
 on what guns you use or what map your on. You can also save these weapon sets with their perks 
 so that you can easily chose the package that you want before you start. The game play has a smooth 
 feel and the online multi player is a blast. One of the better things about the online aspect is 
 the ability to really choose what type of game you want to play; big, small, faster paced or slower, 
 free for all, team based, capture the flag, etc...
  
  BAD: Not too much bad here, the single player campaign, although intense and, for the most part, 
 well done, is a little too linear at times. I felt that I was "stuck on the path" too much for 
 my tastes. This was disheartening especially since the environments were so beautiful. Also the 
 environments were somewhat static, not offering rolling barrels and some of the physics that I 
 was expecting. These minor set backs in the single player campaign are just that though; minor. 
 Especially since the vast majority of your fun will come from the game's multi player side. Sniper 
 rifles can also be finicky in the multi player , but not always. The online portion of the game 
 also needs some basic improvements to make finding friends and searching for specific people or 
 games easier and faster.
  
  Overall, one of the best fps I have ever played. Highly addictive, satisfying game play, realistic 
 and beautiful environments and animations. When you get a good game going online, you feel like 
 your in a war zone, especially with all the cars exploding, grenades flying and enemies trying 
 to gun you down, snipe you from afar, or even worse... shank you. If you like fps and want to test 
 your skills online, COD4 is a must buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rzanini
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 8, 2008 2:50 pm PT
Review:  This is a totally different version of the previous CoDs. It does not take place on the first or 
 the second world war, or even another "common" war. This is something really "new", I mean, it 
 mixes "common" wars scenarios with new buildings, not just those "destroyed" ones, but you will 
 have to go inside buildings, rooms, and everything is working there. This is really a new step 
 on this kind of game.
  CoD4 is simply very immersive! You just start playing it and it is nearly impossible to stop until 
 you reach the end of the game. There is action from the very beginning until the end. Missions 
 come one after another!! It looks like you really are inside the action! Whether you are a sniper 
 or a single trooper, it does not matter! Lots of weapons to choose from! Amazing graphics and very 
 good sound quality! I recommend to play it using a 5.1 sound system ( I think everyone has one of 
 those 5.1 sound-board and speakers, nowadays) . 
  If you want to play this, better you choose one of those days you are doing absolutely nothing, 
 because you will not want stop playing so soon!! Go for it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Itskapil
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 8, 2008 8:51 am PT
Review:  One of the best games today.
  One of the best games todayOne of the best games today.
  One of the best games todayOne of the best games today.
  One of the best games todayOne of the 
 best games today.
  One of the best games todayOne of the best games today.
  One of the best games todayOne of the best games today.
  One of the best games todayOne of the 
 best games today.
  One of the best games todayOne of the best games today.
  One of the best games todayOne of the best games today.
  One of the best games todayOne of the 
 best games today.
  One of the best games todayOne of the best games today.
  One of the best games todayOne of the best games today.
  One of the best games todayOne of the 
 best games today.
  One of the best games todayOne of the best games today.
  One of the best games todayOne of the best games today.
  One of the best games todayOne of the 
 best games today.
  One of the best games today 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sparten11981
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 7, 2008 10:04 am PT
Review:  why do i say that ,if you see on the multiplayer thay are the same maps going on and on and on 
 there is no action in playing the same maps all round . It would have been nice to have some other 
 maps to play on the maltiplayer . the program thats been given to make your own map is VERY hard 
 to get to know ,i dont now about you people but i could'nt understand a thing about it . if it 
 where a bit moor simple like the one that delta force black hawk down is useing , there you can 
 build your own map in a mater of minutes .think about it , i'm not saying that the maps in call 
 of duty ar'nt great but if there where a much easier way to design your own map it would have been 
 sooooow cool. something elce to after you get promoted to the highest level there is no further 
 than that , no special weapons to unlock and much moor , once you get to that last level and you 
 unlocked everything possible there is nothing elce to do . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sot7thD
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 6, 2008 12:02 pm PT
Review:  All just my opinions...
  
  I know this must seem like nitpicking but COD4 feels like it was made for everyone and not for 
 me, for me to really love a game it has to speak to me. COD4 just feels like a generic shooter 
 that could be anything but done really well.... kinda reminds me of Blizzards games which copy 
 lots of other games in the genre but perfects them.
  
  Visually COD4 is stunning, while not graphically amaizng as Crysis it's more of a movie styled 
 game... hard to explain but very immersive and lots of effects on the screen. COD4 is really good 
 at drawing you in and making a direct linear game which feels more like you're playing a movie. 
 However with this is where it disappoints me because the levels are sooooooooo linear that enemies 
 and friendlys keep respawning until you pass checkpoints and theres not a door you can open in 
 the game which just makes you feel trapped. Thankfully all the action and quality of the game makes 
 up for this but I feel like it is missing a cover system like other games... could still keep you 
 in first person but I'm just getting sick of looking at textures from upclose with my head in the 
 wall as I peak out.
  
  You'll play a series of missions as 2 or so different people, I'm not very sure because I didn't 
 pay attension to the story and just wanted to look at all the stunning things like helicotpers 
 crashing and explosions. This makes for some fantastic missions that you wont forget like being 
 shot and killed which in a game is strange because normally just before you die someone comes to 
 save you. Also things like Nukes going off and slowly dying or the Chernobyl level which is my 
 fave because it puts sooo many gameplay elements into one and the opening scene on the boat sinking 
 sets it all up. While COD4 is short (4hours) I think all these epic scenes more than makes up for 
 it with some people however............. with me it just is generic and has no personality and 
 that stops me from making it a instant classic because while it is good you know the next one and 
 the next one will come and it'll be forgotten, where was classic games are a one off that never 
 gets old like Half-Life.
  
  The sound of the game is all fantastic too, has some very good music and very good sound effects 
 which just really help to draw you in now. I can't really say any more on that just know it is 
 very good and you rarely see better.
  
  The multiplayer is basically what we've seen in COD2 but with unlockables and ranks like BF2 and 
 to me it's just not very good and I know it's my opinion and lots love it.... the games just feel 
 like a static cluster **** and require no skill. I also hate unlockables in a FPS game which are 
 meant to be about skill. To me theres just soooo much better out there like still the king CS and 
 COD4 multiplayer lacks that special something.
  
  So with only a 4 hour long game and no love for the multiplayer the value for money for me isn't 
 there and specially seeing how linear the single player game is, you wont want to play it again. 
 However there is nothing wrong with COD4 and it is a great game but for me personally it just doesn't 
 have that special something. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: asad_azam
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 16, 2008 10:57 am PT
Review:  The fourth itineration in the call of duty series gives you a fresh feel to the FPS genre which 
 is already bombarded with world war based titles.
  After skipping version 3 on PC, Call of Duty is back on all major platforms as Call of Duty 4: 
 Modern Warfare.
  A terrorist named Khaled Al Asad (named after me!!) kills the president of some unnamed nation.
 
  The US army is on the chase. I found the story to be a bit confusing and understood it completely 
 only after finishing the game for the second time.
  The game takes you to various places. You will be challenged by hordes of enemy with lots of gunpower, 
 which will
  give you a hard time. The single player mode is short and can be beaten in under 10-12 hours.
 
  Mission variety is good and each mission gives you a complete experience.
  In one such mission , you go 15 years back in time to link the story.
  I don't want to play spoil. 
 play the game yourself to know more about the plot and to enjoy the storyline.
  
  Despite the short playtime, the game gives you an unparallel experience. The game really soaks you 
 in.
  and if you lose interest in the real world. The gameplay is monotonous as the are not many choices 
 on how to finish a mission.
  The multiplayer is quite engaging that gives you a true sense of the chaos of warfare.
  Weapons 
 are of a varity and each one has its different feel and force. My favourie is the sniper.
  
  The game is to be finished once at any difficulty to unlock the cheats which are very cool.
  
 There are enemy laptops to be found in all levels (30 in all) which unlocks further cheats.
  You can play the game in slo-mo ,B/W and in ragdoll once you unlock the cheats.
  
  It is the 
 definitely amongst the best shooters of all times and a must play for all likes.
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: CattiJack
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 5, 2008 9:58 am PT
Review:  We'll I played this game at a Internet Cafe for about 30 minutes with some buddies.
  
  And let me tell you that was a good 30 minutes.
  
  After playing that, my buddies including 
 myself all set out to buy COD4.
  It really is the best shooter I have played in a really long time.
  
  The Single-Player was 
 fun, but the real meat and potatoes on this game in the Multiplayer.
  
  But why is the Multi-Player so fun?
  Because it combines fun FPS gameplay, with a leveling system 
 to unlock new guns, camos, and add-ons.
  
  55 ranks (levels)
  lots of guns
  lots of perks (little abilities like reloading quicker, you can have 3 per kit)
  lots of add-ons 
 and camos 
  lots of challenges.
  
  This is why the game is a must buy for any fan of shooters and Multi-Player or just owning your 
 friends.
  
  This rank up system combined with the awesome gameplay conjures a substance of a game thats the 
 equivalent to crack.
  
  Yes, crack.
  
  Call of Duty 4 is crack, and will keep you busy for many weekends to come. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: theonlyidiot
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 4, 2008 11:44 pm PT
Review:  Call of Duty 4 has got to be one of the best games I have ever played up to this point. There are 
 almost no flaws in this game. The campaign was great with a compelling storyline. Some missions 
 (not really missions but little more like playable cut scenes) really add to how the story moves 
 along. Sometimes, I feel the missions are really straight forward and if you have played it through 
 once, played multiplayer, then went back, the single player is not as fun. Also, there are times 
 when you feel like the game favors the winning team, multiplayer of course, because of the helicopter 
 and air support, but they can sometimes really turn around if used correctly. Other than that, 
 there's not too much that is really bad about this game. I've played it for a few months now and 
 
  I have not had as much fun with a game as this since Halo came out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Wolls
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 8, 2008 12:26 pm PT
Review:  If you have ever played and enjoyed a FPS then i recommend this game. The game has great graphics 
 combined with amazing sound, but can still be played using and average PC. 
  The storyline is excellent as well as, it places you in the role of two soldiers, one working for 
 the US Marines ,whose job it is to help to bring in a middle eastern extremist and the other, a 
 newly recruited SAS soldier who has to prevent the start of a nuclear war. Both campaigns interchange 
 as the story runs out on a single time-line and both are enjoyable to play, however it would have 
 been better if they were a bit longer but you cant ask for the world can you.
  
  Multiplayer is as good as it gets with more than enough game types. It also contains a leveling 
 up system with unlockable guns and perks and paint jobs which will keep you playing all the way 
 to level 55 an beyond.
  
  COD4 is one of the greatest FPS ever and i recommend it to anyone. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mrhp00
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 3, 2008 6:24 am PT
Review:  Call of duty 4 advance warfare is high graphical design character game I ever seen. Its dynamic 
 lights have been used well and your dress will glow. You will feel that you're in real fight not 
 a game. There isn't much number of different weapons in the game and in most missions you will 
 start with M4 rifle.
  Its story line made this game best. You're about to knock down 3 member of a terrorist group. It 
 won't make you feel tired because you will play as SAS and U. S. marine force. In call of duty series 
 you played at least a mission diving vehicles but in Call of duty 4 advance warfare you will only 
 play on foot, although in final mission you have to defend while sitting in a jeep. Its patches 
 and moods can make the fun double. If you be a professional player in shooter kind of game, you 
 wont stop playing Call of duty 4 advance warfare until it get over. It made me amazing and I played 
 it about 17 hour and finish it in one day. So I bet you will love this game if you playing first 
 person shooter games. Just if you didn't bought it yet, get out of house, take a taxi and go to 
 nearest CD shop to buy it
  Have fun 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xXcArLBXx
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 2, 2008 12:15 pm PT
Review:  Call of duty 4 is a great game and is a lot of fun to play the best part of this game is multiplayer 
 because it provides verity you can edit guns so suit you there are also a large verity of maps 
 of all sizes depending how large your game is the graphics of the game were good but newer games 
 have been crated that have more high quality graphics, if you do not own a live membership i would 
 not recommend this game for you because it is not worth the cost as the story mode is particularly 
 short but quite amazing how realistic it is on veteran. 
  Good point's
  
  Great maps Great weapons and supplies
  Decent Graphics (are abit grayscale)
  can be addictive, 
 because there are always aims u want to get
  
  Bad points
  
  gets boring after a while
  community is particualy annoying.
  lots of abuse and foul language
 
  laggy at times
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: pk86
Rating: 9
Date: May 31, 2008 8:51 pm PT
Review:  OK finally we finished with the classic old fashonied and boring WW games. Cod4 came with the most 
 waited modern tecnology. We can use every kind of weapons and accesories to bring down the bad 
 guys. Campaign mode this time doesnt intend you to kill a hold army of soldiers. This time you 
 will fight against very intelligent enemies that arent too many but they still being a plague 
 ^^. The bad thing is that it finishes too soon, you could expect more time of gameplay.
  About the multiplayer gaming, Cod4 brings a "Rolling Style". This means that you can create customize 
 and then rise your character by completing all kind of challenges.
  I think this game satisfied all the expectations that weve been waiting since it came the era 
 of the "WW" games. I highly recommend it ^^. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: halo1hater
Rating: 8
Date: May 31, 2008 6:06 am PT
Review:  COD4 is definetely the best in the series.
  but the rest of the series wasn't much to talk about either so...
  I'll talk about the key parts 
 of this game first.
  The graphics were pretty darn good and gave the rest of the game a good feel.
  the enviremont 
 is beautifully rich and detailed which made the fights funner.
  The weapons had a good feel to them and were highly detailed but all this wasn't enough to give 
 it a 10 or even 9.
  Sure the online was good , actually great. but the campaign was just too short. way too short.
 
  It has no replay value 
 
  
  my rating is an 8
  graphics 9/10
  gameplay 9/10
  value 7/10
  tilt 8/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jin8768
Rating: 10
Date: May 30, 2008 6:43 pm PT
Review:  I am so addicted to this game, it is UNBELIEVABLE! Single Player: Perfect! and the ending, it got 
 me in tears (in a good way) arcade mode is also really fun. graphics are next to perfect as well.
 
  Multiplayer: i seems i just can't stop playing this game! MINDBLOWING is all i can say! perfect 
 blend between competitive play and pure fun. helicopters and airstrikes are an interesting addition. 
 the idea of classes is awesome because it lets people choose the style of playing (rather your 
 a sniper or prefer CQB) . and the leveling up and challenges just keep bring you back for more! 
 I couldn't tear my fingers away from the keyboards until i unloacked all the weapons and reached 
 lvl55.
  
  do yourself a favor, JUST GO OUT THERE AND GET THIS GAME AT ALL 
 
  if you don't enjoy this game, you obviously haven't gotten a checkup in a loooooooooooooonng time! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Daniel_x_100
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 31, 2008 6:22 am PT
Review:  Very good improvement compared to other COD's, but as always there are some major and minor problems 
 with russian dialog. 
  Of course there are 2 or more voice actors who are russians, but their diction and tone is too 
 stereotypic, which I mean is annoying to listen to, even for me a native speaker, they sound too 
 simple and not too serious. There are a lot better voice actors out there! Other voice actors who 
 are just trying to "synthesize" russian in this game sound very weird and funny. Maybe that's was 
 the idea after all, eh? Anyway, is it so hard to find some native russian speakers nowadays with 
 better dictions/voices? 
  There could be problems with other languages as well, don't know...
  that's a bit disappointing.
 
  
  Gameplay and controls have some clumsiness, it's just not always noticeable.
  
  And the good news? well, this game has some fun, so it's not very annoying like those old COD's 
 and it's not too repetitive, much more variations were added and that's always good, a big plus 
 here.
  
  Weapons&aiming are good, but the "last weapon used" key is much needed, or something else for a 
 fast weapon switching.
  
  ... as for graphics and sound, these are great, no flaws there.
  
  The game itself is probably meant for an average player, not much new for an advanced/veteran 
 player. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mega-Tom
Rating: 10
Date: May 26, 2008 3:00 pm PT
Review:  Call of Duty 4. The latest installment in the popular series takes things to the modern day where 
 you battle it out with great weapons on great maps.
  
  The story behind the game is nothing to be excited about. But this wont bother you wile you are 
 playing as the visuals, sound and action will blow you away. 
  You will have a wide selection of weapons to use in the story mode as well as online... but I will 
 get to that soon. the single player game is easy on the low settings but on Veteran mode this game 
 is a pane and very hard still everyone loves a challenge right?
  
  Multiplayer is also amazing, action packed and fast pased. Game modes are very good and add a lot 
 of stratergy to a game. Leveling up is easy and really fun allowing you to unlock new perks and 
 weapons. Simply the best MP in a shooter for a long time. There is however, through no falt of 
 the game, 1 problem with the MP and thats the online community. Playing this game on the Xbox360 
 gave me nothing but a headache. People insulting one another all the time and people getting really 
 annoyed when they die, I have never herd the terms "No ****ing way" & "Thats ****ing bull****" 
 stated so much before in a game. It is enouth to make anyone just not want to play online anymore 
 as it did with me, Americans seem to cant take it that an English guy is in the same server as 
 them or beating them. Apologies to all Americans that read this and actually play the MP properly 
 without throwing abuse at people. 
  
  COD4 still gets a 10/10 because the game is amazing. If some of the online community would just 
 grow up during online games then this game would be 100% perfect offline and online. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: punkdray
Rating: 9
Date: May 26, 2008 12:06 pm PT
Review:  Call Of Duty 4 Modern Warfare, a nice name for a brilliant game. Its graphic looks awesom and the 
 gameplay is great.
  
  Let start with the basic game mode. In single player the story is preety like the other with a 
 war story and a well built gameplay. The gameplay really wants to make you feel in the game and 
 even certian things let you feel you're playing and you are fighting. This new COD is pretty modern 
 as the name tels you. the guns are real moern with silencers and laser aiming. Full of new modern 
 weopons.
  
  The graphics are preety cool. When you set all settings to high you'll get amaazed by all details. 
 The soldiers look like from a real world. You'll start fightin' Your way thorugh all the missions. 
 You'll get full fighting expierence and you will not reject playing a level twice. The fields look 
 preety cool. you'll fight in full 3d World. You can climb up ladders, crawl, camp and snipe enemies, 
 
  
  Talking about the Multiplayer feauture is great. New things to do and COD4 is preety one of the 
 best fps multiplayer game. You will earn exp on certain levels. You will slowly increase the level 
 from 1 to become a better rank. There is the Create a Class option which will make you crate a 
 class with your favourite gun and Perks. So when in multi you choose the created Class.
  
  Final words. Call of Duty 4 another imerssive fps shooting game from the awesome series. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thomasduo
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 26, 2008 10:23 am PT
Review:  This game got a lot of awards but the one thing that most reviews don't do is a 2nd look review. 
 The initial review gave it a 9.0/10 but if you look at the replay value of a game, it should rank 
 thisgame a little higher. I and most of the people I meet online are still playing this game after 
 more than 6 months. And ENJOYING IT!!! Sure I purchased Grand Theft Auto, Devil May Cry... played 
 it the first week or two but I found myself coming back to this game. Most of my online gaming 
 friends did the same. That tells me that COD4 overall.... is a much better game in terms of value 
 than Grand Theft Auto 4 or any other game. 
  
  TRUE GAMING VALUE!!!!!
  My true cost for COD4 is about:
  $60 divided by 500 hours = (about .12 cents/hour) and decreasing...
 
  
  My cost for GTA is about:
  $60 divided by 40 hours = (about 1.50 dollars/hour) and not decreasing much more.
  
  Now, if 
 you really look at it this way, which is a better game?
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: vufor
Rating: 10
Date: May 25, 2008 8:08 pm PT
Review:  What a tremendous game!! One of the best action packed shoting games, cinematic probably the best 
 word to describe it. Thorough game I had such a impressiona that I am watching movie and same time 
 interacting with it... like one of the movie personages. 
  
  Fast pace and very superb warfare environment design. Fantastic game storry, amazing gameplay... facinating 
 moments... where you keep screeming certain words that you dont want anyone to hear!!! 
  
  Thus I hung my Brand new XFX 9600 GT door tag 
  "I AM GAMING DO NOT DISTURB"... cool with dog 
 on it!! 
  
  Graphics is just amazing specially I liked the one with middle east compaines, sandy and gritty 
 flashing environments.... superb.
  
  Some how did occosionally remind the COD 2 where you bolw the tanks up, or when you kill enemies 
 the voice they make.... I wonder whether this is the optimisied and customised version of the same 
 game engine that COD 2 been made on...?! However it lloks smokin' ....
  Other moment that I would enjoy for a while is sitting in plane up in skies and shooting at enemies 
 from vairious calibre guns..."Death form Skies" 
::::::

::::::
UserName: X_ICE-MONKEY_X
Rating: 9
Date: May 24, 2008 9:02 pm PT
Review:  Call of Duty 4,
  
  This game is the best first person shooter as of Sunday 25th May 2008, 13:40 hours GMT+10:00. The 
 campaign is the best story of any modern war game I have played or seen, and although short is 
 satisfying for many reason's (one of them being Jackson's demise) . It is nice to see a war game 
 where it is quite obvious (and not in the last level as a solemn note, but throughout every level) 
 that not every one get's out of war with a big smile and a cigar. The difficulties in the campaign 
 give a wide range of experience's, from being frustratingly stupid, to being ludicrously easy. 
 On the easiest difficulty COD 4 is so easy you can almost pass it with one hand, step up and the 
 two intermediate difficulties are the most fun and rewarding. The hardest difficulty come's with 
 the subtitle "you will not survive", this is not because it is so hard, but because there are so 
 many (hundred's of thousands) or terrorists and "freedom fighters" for you to blow away. In one 
 level, in a single bus over one hundred and twenty-two (that's the number I got to before running 
 out of ammo for my sniper rifle) militants will pop there heads up for you to pop them off. So 
 you can be assured that if you charge in before killing a few hundred enemies at each battle-ground 
 you will die.
  
  The Multiplayer is what many players and reviewer's have been racing on about in this game, and 
 they should be. The multiplayer is nice, aesthetic, fluid and fast paced. There is however almost 
 no team interaction, I myself have no problem with this, but those of you reading this review might. 
 I do have some issues with the multiplayer though, although it is a direct representation fo the 
 modern battle environment, all the map's and gameplay type's are set up to use close quater combat, 
 which means sub-machine guns, assualt rifle's and light machine guns are the most powerful type's 
 of weapons, sniper rifle's and shotgun's come up far short of the mark, in the campaign teh level's 
 are tailored so that in each level you will use a different weapon or style of using each weapon, 
 in multiplayer the best way, and always the best way, is to run in with fully automatic weapons 
 firing as much as you can before you are shot yourself. On some of the larger maps like Overgrown 
 sniper's are plausible, but that limits you to the outdoor section of the map and anyone who has 
 played the game for a decent amount of time will know how to avoid sniper fire. Shotguns in the 
 campaign are appropriately deadly and impossible to match in close combat, but seeing as this game 
 has to be balanced, they have been completly shunted in multiplayer. The range has been shortened, 
 so much so that if a target is more than 20 metre's away they are imperviuos to your shotgun blasts, 
 that would be ok, if they hadn't also limited the magazine capacity of the automatic (or semi-automatic 
 technically) shotgun (M1014) which only holds 4 rounds in multiplayer. It's not all bad and for 
 the most part multiplayer is exhilirating and enjoyable, it's just a small scope of gameplay (although 
 I prefer hardcore mode, seeing it is the only game mode where anything other than your knife can 
 kill someone one shot, yes even a headshot will not kill someone (unless it's a shotgun or sniper, 
 excluding M21) without the stopping power perk. On to perks now, not much further to go, last section... 
 hold tight.
  
  Perks, novelties. Depending on what mode your playing they can make or break you, or not matter 
 at all. It adds some interesting aspects to the game, but for the most part will not impact too 
 much on your gameplay (all the perks are balanced, except maybe martydom)
  
  This game would recieve a 10/10 if not for the limit's, which are not optional, placed on the multiplayer 
 aspect. You can only place one attachment on a gun (even for balance reason's, if everyone can 
 do it, it is still fair) , and the weapons in the multiplayer have been altered so much from single 
 player, that you will have to re-prioritise your weapon selection.
  
  It is worth buying for the singleplayer, and for the multiplayer, but it's not perfect, or far 
 from it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: netpirate99
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 24, 2008 12:57 pm PT
Review:  
  Call of duty 4 is rather different to its predecessors. As well as being adapted for the modern 
 day, the graphics have also received a boost for the next gen consoles. The campaign is pretty 
 short but, hey, it's still cool.
  
  The game has 4 difficulty levels but overall the game gets harder as you go along. Call of Duty 
 4 has quite a short but interesting storyline, where you play as Sgt. 'Soap' Mctavish (SAS) , Sgt. 
 Paul Jackson (USMC) , a younger version of Cpt. Price and a gunshiper gunner. The game involves 
 a series of missions, one involving you flying out in a gunship and blowing up Russians :) . The 
 maps in the missions are complex, and there are many ways to reach your destinations. The campaign 
 ends too quickly, though, and it could do with a few more missions or that extra guy to shoot in 
 the face. The epilogue mission at the end is funny, and I'll leave you to find out what's so funny.
 
  
  The graphics are amazing. You can have the settings on low and it will still look OK. However, 
 if you want more realistic bullets and dead bodies, you will need:
   A dual core processor,
   A 256mb graphics card,
   1 GB RAM.
  Either way, it still looks 
 good.
  
  The cutscenes are realistic. The most impressive is a long one when you are the president of one 
 of the Middle Eastern countries, and you are being taken to your execution. You can move the camera 
 about however you want as you're being driven through the city.
  
  There is also a new array of weapons and explosives. Flashbangs are probably the most realistic. 
 They white out your screen and your 'ears' ring which is annoying but cool at the same time. Javelin 
 rockets are spectacular and so is the RPG launcher. There are an array of modern day guns and some 
 classic weapons as well.
  
  Overall, a great game but it's spoilt by the fact that the campaign is way too short.
  
  net 
 pirate
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: katwomansz
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 16, 2008 6:48 am PT
Review:  I played COD 1 and 2 one the PC and the single player mode has become progressively shorter. 5 
 Hours if you take it slow!? So the developers think multiplayer can compensate?
  
  The people with the most money and the least time are the people who work long hours to afford 
 $50 games and $3000 computers. They don't have 100 hours handy to become proficient at multiplayer. 
 So they are hoping for 20-30 hours of single player.
  
  I tried the newbie servers and the generals camp out there killing you as you respawn. Some run 
 around for easy marks during team play. 
  I wish there were more people like the few I met that allowed me to tag along with them as a lowly 
 lieutenant with poor guns. You guys are the real generals of the game! 
  
  The new arcade mode allowed some replay value but the series has gone downhill for single player 
 in value.
  
  EDIT, well I have put in 25 hours of multiplayer and that unlocks better guns so you at least have 
 half a chance.
  Most PC servers are pretty hard core, that's why I hope for a little more easy single player time 
 please developers after a long day at work to afford this game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: agturboninja
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 23, 2008 8:44 pm PT
Review:  Call of Duty 4 Modern Warfare is a nice break from World War 2, since the war has been played longer 
 than the war itself. The World War 2 games have covered the level design very realistically, it 
 seems like you're playing the same game regardless if its COD, Brother in Arms, or Medal of Honor.
 
  
  Call of Duty 4 is sweet. The missions have huge scope, and lots of things going at once, such as 
 dropping down from a helicopter, and seeing a dozen helicopters. The shooting enemies through walls 
 is really cool, yet at the same time not as cool, since they can also shoot through walls. The 
 stealth mission in Chernobyl is awesome because you have to use stealth. The stealth suits in the 
 Chernobyl mission are amazing since it is tough to spot them when their lying down.
  
  The controls, sound, and graphics help complement the game. The game is stable on a AMD Athlon 
 3000, 1 GB of RAM, and 512 MB ATI Radeon X1600 on 1024 x 768 at medium settings.
  
  The only thing I wished that COD4 had was a longer single player. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nanu958
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 23, 2008 9:20 am PT
Review:  After the huge success that WW2-based Call of Duty 2 bought to us, Call of Duty 4 from Infinity 
 Ward raised that success bar peak high.......
  
  This game's gr8 and brigns back the strengths of COD2 and much much more.........
  
  It's got 
 awesome visuals, solid gameplay, sound, storyline........ it's got everything essential for a GOTY 
 game.........
  
  Visuals.-9/10
  Graphics are gr8 and the game is well optimised for even mid-low range PC's. (Trust me I did this 
 game on a GeForce 71000GS) . But the beauty experienced on my 8600GT was jaw-dropping.
  
  Gameplay.-9/10
  Gameplay's rock-solid. Get's u in the warriors helmet and f*** those terrorists. 
 Also, enemy AI's worth the intelligence in the "Artificial Intelligence".
  
  Sound-9.5/10
  Damn, the music's so gr8 ........ I was listening to the autoplay music for about 
 15mins before playing the game. Trut me , it's that Gr8.
  
  Overall- 9.5/10
  
  This IS the Game of the Year ( dunno why Gamespot made that graphic-whore Crysis the GOTY) ..... I'm 
 playing this for the 3rd time!!!!
  
  Newayz, f*** Crysis, Get this NOW! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: slayer2_2_2
Rating: 8.5
Date: May 21, 2008 5:22 pm PT
Review:  The first play through CoD4 was amazing. The storyline was hard for me to grasp, but mowing down 
 swarms of baddies in classic Quake-style rampages was awesome fun. I of course played on the easiest 
 difficulty. The ending was a real kick in the face though. Pretty much it comes out of nowhere, 
 after maybe 5-7 hours depending on difficulty, and kills everyone of your team except you. I had 
 quickly become addicted to the knife attack. The second time I got more into the feel of the game, 
 learned some good tactics and secrets as well as got a good understanding of how the story plays 
 out. It was good enough for me to make a music video of and still replay the game to this day.
 
  
  The Good:
  
  -Amazing graphics and effects. Being near a tank when it fores temporarily deafens you, graphics 
 are crisp and shiny at the same time, nice blood spew effects.
  
  -Decent storyline, but horribly cliche, more on that later.
  
  -An overall Quake-style semi-mindless 
 shooter, which for most, equals fun.
  
  -You get to play from 5 or so different peoples perspectives in very different environments.
 
  
  The Bad:
  
  -Horrible, horrible ending. I'm not one to insult endings that aren't all happy "We kicked butt!" 
 style finales, but CoD4 was a little extreme. Every character you meet or play as dies except Soap. 
 Maybe a few nameless, faceless grunts live, maybe, but I don't think so.
  
  -Soap is a stupid name for a character.
  
  -A book full of cliche's, evil Russians, Russian 
 nukes, your standard weapons seen in every moder shooter, evil Iraqi terrorists, evil pupateer 
 pulling the strings secretly complete with the tough black guy who wears a tee-shirt into combat 
 and raps during the credits. And thats just the prologue to all the cliche's I can think of.
  
  -Multiplayer is pretty much dog-poo. There are many who praise CoD4's MP, but that crazy talk, 
 think Quake, torn from its rotting grave, given a modern look with nooby BF2 style unlocks with 
 fair-cheats (called perks) and you've got CoD4's MP. Also even a dog could unlock a new weapon 
 and rank or ten with a day of hard playing. And they don't have thumbs! I own a PC, but when I 
 played the 360 version at my friends house, I owned so many nubs at MP that it wasn't even funny.
 
  
  -The difficulty modes between medium and Hard jump up in difficulty so far, that it ruins the game 
 playing on anything higher than Medium
  
  Pretty much, if you're an FPS fan, get it, it's old and cliche, horrible ending and multiplayer, 
 but in its own way amazing.
  Slayer_2 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MichaelMorbid
Rating: 8
Date: May 21, 2008 1:24 pm PT
Review:  ... well they totally do. 
  
  Retro-Red Scare is in this session. Know that'll offend the Middle Eastern terrorists, but hey, 
 they had their 911 minutes of fame already... back to basics. 
  
  What can we really say that hasn't already been said in the 689 previous reviews?
  
  Ticklefish 
 Restroom?
  
  The Call of Duty series always makes the player feel they are in a war film. The updated modern 
 setting is a nice change of pace from killing nazis. Though... you can never really get tired of 
 killing nazis. This game may have gotten a ten if they included just one obligatory nazi, even 
 better, that nazi should have been mecha-hitler.
  
  Ok, that's enough.
  
  The entire experience could best be summed up as cinematic. Visuals are amazing. Sound and music 
 are phenomenal.
  
  Gameplay is what it's always been, tried and true, tested and retested, honest to god shooter. 
 The AI allies go through their route and provide a little backup, but it never feels like a squad 
 squad. They are sort of doing their thing and you're sort of doing your thing. 
  
  There are a handful of missions that break the formula a little bit and go with the stealth angle 
 or the mounted gunner angle. For us at least they stand out as the better missions. The rest of 
 the run and gun firefights sort of all just bleed together. Locations are amazing. Their cut scenes 
 are top shelf.
  
  Think one of the best things about this game, and there are a lot of "best things" about this game, 
 is how it is just so seamless. The developers really made a game where once you start it all sort 
 of rolls together... so if you're not in the action, you're being briefed, or listening to a cutscene... 
 there really isn't any real reminder that it's just a load screen apart from a small unobtrusive 
 thin white bar. There's no silent pauses or spinning icon, everything is fluid and moving and rotating 
 and talking and tracking and briefing... it's very refreshing, especially in this next gen era 
 of shooters where the game locks up when it loads like HL2. 
  
  Story... is ok. We wouldn't go to see it in a theater unless nothing else was playing. It's ok. 
 Standard popcorn war action film plot. Bad guy out there. Bad guy and another bad guy. Get the 
 nukes. Angry bad guy. Tough heroes. Kaboom boom boom, car chase, climax, credits. Not much in the 
 way of character development for protagonists or antagonists, just a brisk jump from a burning 
 roof top to a chopper at the last possible moment.
  
  Haven't played around with multiplayer. There's likely some replayablity there. Once complete, 
 the game gives you a beat your own score deal where you try to... idk... do more damage? or go 
 through it faster? idk... might be some replayablity in that, but we're not holding our breath, 
 we sat through the show once... that was probably enough at least until we start to forget.
  
  Have to say this again, because it bears repeating, love the visuals. Especially the models. 
 Some of those terrorist models are so cool. The ski mask and everything... very phoenix connexion.
 
  
  We're sorta sick of shooters at the moment though, but as shooters go this is definitely a prize. 
 Yeah, it's pretty linear, but it's got pretty pretty polygons. We like it and all, but we probably 
 won't be playing it again for a long while. Once you beat it, that's just sort of the way it goes. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gumeh
Rating: 9
Date: May 21, 2008 10:18 am PT
Review:  =The Best Series Call of Duty=
  
  Call of Duty 4 Modern Warfare it's a series which enjoyable gameplay. you can play with single 
 player campaign or multiplayer with on-line. it's dedicated "The Best FPS Game of the year". 
 
  
  =GamePlay=
  
  It's same with other prequel, sequel with amazingly gun, and play as one of the marine or SAS regiment. 
 With the fine story (why the enemy just russia and arabic??) the multiplayer game is very interesting 
 with a few map pack and a few best gun in the world. you can play as a marine, SAS, or enemy, the 
 single player campaign very short, but better than older series. You can change your gun if out 
 of ammo or to find the better gun to kill your enemy. Weapons organizing it's easily with familiar 
 FPS controls. but you cannot kick and punch your enemy. just shoot and meele with your knife. Ai 
 enemy will improve if u increase your level to hard or veteran, but it's very ridicolous fin out 
 the regular difficulty very fast to die than hard difficulty?? maybe iam wrong??
  
  =Graphics=
  
  COD 4 Friendly with middle Graphics performance for Mainstream PC. it's can run 
 with AMD Athlon 64 3200+/Intel Pentium 4 3.0 Ghz, with minimum video card 7300 SE/LE. but if u 
 you want to play with highly performance and best graphic quality, i recommended to use Quad core/phenom 
 with Nvidia 8800 GT/HD 3870 (in the case, HD 3870 work better than 8800 GT) .
  and not forget to increase your memory up to 2 GB or better. with LCD monitor and Fine Cooling 
 System also. Don't try overclocking your PC if not included with fine cooling system. Don't try 
 to play with your notebook, notebook graphics cards almost all not supported to play this game.
 
  
  =All Points=
  
  All condition very good, enjoyable, fun, playable to FPS Fanatic. i hope COD 5 better than COD 
 4 with improve and better performance. I'll waiting u COD 5......
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: 3Dmajid2008
Rating: 9
Date: May 21, 2008 9:54 am PT
Review:  Now we can see professional programming and models design and levels in Call of duty 4. Loading 
 pages between levels is masterpiece and game play and also graphic of games is too. I am happy 
 , because in this version they pay attention to reload and run actions more ... But they don't 
 solve some problem in physics and pickup guns. I love call of duty 4 because they made a natural 
 levels that seems very similar IRAQ and other levels like Jungles. You'r frineds AI and you'r enemys 
 AI has progress and they help you very good and enemy know you and kill you very nice. But allow 
 me to one protest CALL OF DUTY 4 for its unreal story. I have some question about its story that 
 When IRAQ did fight with America ? American go to IRAQ and kill them ... IRAQ hasn't any good weapons 
 and tank ... But in this version of Call of duty they made a POWERFUL IRAQ !!! I know that its 
 100% unreal. I think that its better if I forget Call of duty 4's unreal story. Leave it. Its important 
 that Call of duty 4 have very progress then last PC version of it.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: theaznfish
Rating: 10
Date: May 21, 2008 1:40 am PT
Review:  This game is superb. Never has a game fully integrated the reality of modern day warfare modern 
 day politics so well. COD4 is truly revolutionary on multiple scales. In the political sense, it 
 runs through a scenario which, in today's uneasy times, could just as easily occur at any one moment 
 effecting people from all parts of the globe. It also emphasizes the great sacrifice many of our 
 soldiers go through day to day protecting the well being of their families thousands of miles away. 
 
  
  A heart throbber no less as several events in the game instill emotions like anxiousness, fear, 
 anger, and relief while also embedding the sense of honor and duty as, just by playing this game, 
 the player is immersed in t he battlefield with intense firefighting and danger at every corner. 
 Throughout the game there is no feeling of displacement or fictionalism as everything from the 
 weapons to the locations are based on the realities of this world. AI is very intelligent, hiding 
 behind cover while throwing gernades given the chance. 
  
  In the end, Call of Duty 4: Modern Warfare is definitely a game to be played in one's lifetime 
 and not a game to be missed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lovely_beauty
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 19, 2008 5:29 am PT
Review:   
 
  
  Taking the risk of giving up World War 2 topic, Call of Duty 4 (CoD4) puts on new clothes: Modern 
 Warfare. Easy to recognize, the main plot is totally fictitious and only based on the campaign 
 of one faction: allied troops of Great Britain and the States. A scheme to stage a coup d'etat 
 and scramble for nuclear weapons arises in Eastern Europe and Middle East, forcing these combined 
 force to take action. This force include 2 major arms: SAS and Marine. While SAS is specialized 
 in secret and quick missions, Marine normally participate in large-scaled battles. You will have 
 a chance to play both arms one after another in the game.
  
  -------------------Game play: mixture of old and new 
  
  
 You will find that CoD4 has not gone too far from the series' tradition in this aspect: linear 
 quests consisting of many pulling about situations are still maintained. The structure of the missions 
 will change depends on which arm you control: SAS or Marine. As SAS you will possess high-tech 
 gears like sound-muffling MP5, shortgun, infrared telescope ect... Unfortunately, besides the weapon 
 system, there is not much difference in the way these 2 forces carry out their missions. Generally, 
 the objectives are still approach targets, occupy entrenched fortification, reinforce comrades 
 or besiege strategic locations. In most of these quest you will have the cooperation of several 
 companion in arms. The strong point of CoD4 is making your comrades so lively with so many expressions 
 on their face that sometimes you may think they are real people in life. Though they can't be controlled, 
 your machine partners are very sensitive to the circumstance, react swiftly and assist you well, 
 or even giving out some useful advice.
  
  AI of Modern Warfare is much improved from previous versions. If you have played prior games of 
 the series, you should remember the way enemy troops stand still or abuse the number to overwhelm 
 players. Now they are well-equipped with modern war gears which allow them to carry out more complicated 
 strategy. In many situations, they just cover themselves and blind-fire without revealing any weak 
 point. Conversely, if you cover yourself too long, they will start attack with grenades. At higher 
 difficulty setting, computer can even use "flank" attacks with considerable numbers. Fortunately, 
 your companion is as intelligent as machine troops, hence, many quests can only be solve if you 
 rely on them to clear the way.
  
  You are not always on the ground. In some mission the game let you to fly helicopter equipped with 
 grenade launcher to raid enemy's base or control machine-gun AC-130 to assist your comrades from 
 the air. It's a bit similar to Ghost Recon Advanced Warfighter when placing players in many positions 
 in the army. The feeling of bombing from the air is surely amazing, but more breath-taking is the 
 mission in which you and an experienced companion suddenly break into opponent's defence line. 
 Here sniper skill is vital. High tide is when you have to cover your companion towards the copter 
 under the rain of enemy fire.
  
   
 
  
  It's the strongest point of CoD series, the one which help it to defeat the rivals like Medal of 
 Honnor or Brothers in Arm. The simulation of the fierce nature of the battle, with sound of gunshot, 
 human screaming, groaning and the pulling-over of factions is always strangely attractive to fans 
 of FPS. In CoD4, modern factors brings you under new stress, the stress forcing you to move forwards 
 to escape a sinking ship, or get rid of enemy pursue, or carry on your back a companion in a long 
 way under enemy fire. The fatal moment is describe vividly in Modern Warfare, even the smallest 
 details are taken care thoroughly, and these are the emphasis in the whole symphony of warfare.
 
  
  CoD4 could be the best in the series. Moreover, along with Bioshock and Halo 3, it is one of the 
 most memorable FPS of 2007. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Syst3mW4rr10r
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 15, 2008 7:13 pm PT
Review:  I have always had great reservations about the Call of Duty series. To be honest, despite what 
 people have told me, it still always seemed like Medal of Honour with a different name, and WWII 
 shooters are as common these days as whores in a red light district. However, CoD4 has moved the 
 series into the modern day, giving me no choice but to see what all the fuss was about.
  
  First off, the gameplay in CoD4 is truly brilliant. It follows the simple, tried and true FPS format, 
 though somehow it seems to transcend all others. The action is intense and challenging, with many 
 enemies who use cover intelligently and fight back aggressively. Even in the more open environments, 
 it feels hot and heavy, and you truly feel the danger. The controls are tight and responsive (basically 
 standard FPS) , though if I can make a small criticism, taking bullets makes your aim jerk massively 
 so you have no hope in hell of firing back without moving out of the line of fire. The difficulty 
 can be a little punishing at times, though that could be because I insist on playing on the hard 
 difficulty setting. There are a couple of sections where you take control of the gunner of various 
 vehicles, which functions like a rail shooter section. These sections are usually much easier, 
 but it is undeniably fun to watch the little ant-people fly like ragdolls as you blast them with 
 rockets from a helicopter. These sections are well-placed and uncommon enough to be nice little 
 breaks from the run-and-gun action. It would also have been nice for the guns to be a bit more 
 differentiated. Each class of gun (eg. rifles, shotguns, snipers etc.) are all pretty much exactly 
 the same (M4s, G3s, AKs are basically the same) . Overall though, the gameplay is truly excellent, 
 with only the most minor criticisms to be made.
  
  One of the things that truly struck me about this game was the way that it told its story. Though 
 the story itself wasn't that impressive in itself, basically involving Arab insurgents (in a tactfully 
 unnamed Middle Eastern country that the US is invading) , Russian nationalists (who look a lot like 
 Soviets with hammer and sickle badges) , and the theft of nuclear weapons. You play as several different 
 protagonists throughout the game, the two main ones being a British SAS trooper (fighting mostly 
 in Russia) and a US Marine (in the Middle East) . However, the story is told quite clearly through 
 briefings in the loading screens and you occasionally jump into other people's heads to see important 
 events unfold. A good example of this is near the start when you briefly become the former president 
 of Unknownistan as he is beaten, dragged to a car, driven through the streets as the revolutionaries 
 murder his soldiers and citizens indiscriminately, before being dragged into a courtyard, tied 
 to a pole and shot through the head by the rebel leader. However, the best moment of all is when 
 you take control of a soldier dying of radiation sickness following a nuclear explosion, crawling 
 from the ruins of his helicopter and trying to stay conscious before collapsing and letting the 
 white light engulf you. This cold and pessimistic storytelling style is what I loved, especially 
 as the US forces end up screwing things up pretty badly by their gung-ho strategies, with the SAS 
 running about picking up the pieces. However, the ending is a bit disappointing; it is pretty sudden 
 and doesn't really clear up what happens to the hordes of closing enemies, but your allies pop 
 up to save the survivors. One flaw I found with the story is that the characters are particularly 
 one-dimensional and stereotypical. For example, it continues to perpetuate the stereotype that 
 all British people speak with cockney accents, and then there is the token black Marine who shamelessly 
 raps about the game over the end credits (seriously, I'm not joking) . The single-player campaign 
 has also been criticised for being too short, but I disagree. Admittedly it is only maybe 8 hours 
 long, but when you actually play through it, you don't notice that. The story, whilst being fairly 
 lacklustre, is fast-paced and the missions are full of action. Any attempt to make the single-player 
 longer would've been pointless and could have spoiled its sublime feeling.
  
  Graphically this game is not particularly outstanding; it is up to the usual standards of what 
 we have come to expect of modern games. The frame-rate does seem to bog down in a couple of specific 
 places on my PC, though that could just be my computer, as none of my friends have complained of 
 such things. The sound is nothing less than we would expect, apart from the slightly annoying accents.
 
  
  Multiplayer is where you will really lose hours and hours of your life. Most actual matches are 
 pretty basic deathmatch and so on, but the real appeal is the XP system. Your character gains experience 
 points for kills, assists and so on, and gaining experience points means you level up, giving you 
 access to "better" guns (though as we've established, not much better) and, more importantly, more 
 extra perks. These are fun little abilities that you choose before a match that give you little 
 advantages that range from extra health or sprint to last stand (so when you die you get a couple 
 of seconds of lying on the ground with you pistol to take your final revenge) to martyrdom (that 
 drops a frag grenade on your corpse when you die) . The great thing about these perks is that almost 
 all of them are useful and worth considering at least, but none are hideously unbalancing, even 
 the highest level ones. Additionally you can try to complete challenges, which are little objectives 
 like make 50 headshots or shoot 300 guys using an M4. Whilst these are pretty simple, they take 
 a while and give out lots of XP points, as well as providing something for all you obsessive-compulsive 
 achievement guzzling guys out there. All in all, multiplayer is a good way to sit down at 8:00 
 pm and then look at the clock and wonder how it got to 3:00 am so quickly.
  
  Overall, Call of Duty 4 is a shining example of how to make an FPS. It falls short of perfection 
 on only a few minor issues, namely samey weaponry, lacklustre storyline (though it is told well) , 
 maybe slightly too difficult on harder settings, and a few minor graphical issues. I say bring 
 on more of the same in CoD 5, and other game devs take heed of this truly great game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LTZH
Rating: 8
Date: May 13, 2008 9:06 pm PT
Review:  In 2007 COD4 was one of the afterburners in the hype machine, the E3 trailer brought tremendous 
 promise, and the fact that it was COD in the modern era helped flicker light as well.
  
  COD4's first run through single player campaign was great, no... I take that back, it was not only 
 great, it was amazing and intense. The most intense SP campaign can be found in COD4, it really 
 got the adrenaline going frequently.
  But, thats the best thing I can say about this game... a 10 hour SP campaign, now of course it 
 has MP, but the tactical depth is so low it flocks with 10 year old kids, its just run and gun.
 
  
  A battlefield player such as myself, will be and has been disappointed in the MP area only due 
 to childish gameplay. However, some people really like it and can do it all day, so don't let my 
 opinion distract you from your personal likes.
  
  So...
  Pros: Good graphics, good sound, amazing SP.
  Cons: Not so good MP when compared to SP, still 
 is about $50. Duration is only under 20 hours.
  
  COD4 was another good game crashed by the hype machine, so don't believe the hype! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Code_wizard
Rating: 9
Date: May 12, 2008 10:48 am PT
Review:  A while back a little mod called counter-strike gained a rabid following. This little game grew 
 into the definitive tactical competitive multiplayer game. No other game even came close. Years 
 later the realistic competitive FPS scene is in poor shape having no good released for quite some 
 time. COD4 to the rescue. Its everything the the community wanted and needed. If you are a former 
 counter-strike player that has since laid down your gun, put on your combat boots, its time to 
 fight once more. From its excellent graphics to its finely tuned gameplay COD4 is unchallenged 
 as the best realistic tactical competitive multiplayer FPS out there. The customization options 
 available to the servers is outstanding, you can always find a server suited to your playing style. 
 Whether you like old school tactical bomb placement with no respawns or fast paced guns blazing 
 team death match. It is all here. This game will appeal to more than just the counter-strike fans 
 though. If you like Rainbow Six, Halo, Unreal Tournament, heck any FPS's, you owe it to yourself 
 to pick up a copy of COD4. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chicken32
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 3, 2008 4:24 pm PT
Review:  Call of Duty 4: Modern Warfare, the first in the series to break away from the World War II background, 
 introducing a new leveling system and an action packed single player campaign, you'll have to play 
 it to beilive it.
  
  The bulk of the high quality content comes from the single player campaign, with incredible voice 
 acting, and directing. With such camera work, and scripted events that you'd see from a high end 
 Military movie such as Black Hawk Down.
  
  In this iteration, Infinity Ward has seem to concentrate more on the multiplayer side of things, 
 and have come through well, adding a leveling system which as you go higher in the ranks the more 
 equipment you can gain access to, and when you reach the maximum level of 55, there are also Challenges 
 such as, get this many headshots, kill this many people with grenades, that will get you playing 
 for months. Unlike the 360 version which limits you to a maximum of 18 players, the PC version 
 has 64 players, which can be chaotic at first, but is really fun when you get the hang of it.
 
  
  The sound is amazing, but mostly in the Single Player campaign, the voice acting and ambiance is 
 amazing, with gun fire, screaming, explosions going off everywhere. The music as well is top notch, 
 the orchestral instruments really pull you in to the emotion of the scene. 
  In the multiplayer, the sound is decent with only the weapon sounds, and some random yelling.
 
  
  The graphics is fantastic as well, but just like the sound, mostly in the Single Player Campaign. 
 In it the textures and animations are phenomenal, not to mention the lighting, which is the strong 
 point of this engine. 
  In the multiplayer, textures aren't that sharp, animations are a little choppy, and the lighting 
 needs some work in some parts.
  
  Call of Duty 4: Modern Warfare, the franchise has now come back from a slump (Call of Duty 3) , adding 
 of the best action packed single player campaign, and a multiplayer mode that lives longer than 
 your love life. Theres no other game on the PC that squeezes every cent of your 50 bucks. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dacnar
Rating: 9
Date: May 10, 2008 1:47 pm PT
Review:  I have racked up over 200 hours with this game already. The single player game is short. It is 
 good though. The sniper missions are good, but the best mission is at the gun controls of the AC-130 
 Gunship. I have played that mission over and over. Some people might feel that they got ripped 
 off by the shortness of the single player game. The multiplayer mode is the backbone of the game 
 though. It is easy to find a match that you are interested in. The game modes are varied and enjoyable. 
 The maps are quite well done. With the influx of user maps it gets better and better. I highly 
 recommend this to any one interested in 1st person shooters.... A must have for anyone that likes 
 frag fests! Another feature that I like is that you can have multiple profiles. Tired of you profile 
 that has everything unlocked and 5 stars? Start a new one from scratch. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: biltros
Rating: 10
Date: May 10, 2008 8:39 am PT
Review:  Just the title says. The game is epic. Just like that.. No need to review it. Everyone who played will 
 understand that there is no room for words in this game. Just epic...
  But for those curious to know here is a sample.
  The graphics are very impressive. It's not Crysis 
 but make no mistake. It has the appropriate graphics for a war game. Big battlefields, nice character 
 movement and realism..
  Gameplay.. No need to say anything. Immersive at least..
  Sound outstanding like you are in the middle of a real war..
  Story.. Well the story isn't the 
 best around but the way it is told, makes one of the most immersive stories. You actually care about 
 you, the good guys and especially the BAD guys. I almost cried at the end of the game..
  If you are into FPS buy this game. And last but not least despite the good graphics this game runs 
 really smoothly. I've got a Q6600 cpu and a 8800 GTS 640 gpu and i maxed it out on my native resolution 
 1440*900. Have fun! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kcaldwel
Rating: 10
Date: May 10, 2008 12:14 am PT
Review:  It seemed so silly just to sit there. But what was I supposed to do? Evening had come and gone 
 and come and gone again. There was little else to do. I found myself here. And the smell, oh my 
 god the smell. It was the most wonderful, pleasent piece of coal I had ever stuck between my toe. 
 I pulled it out to examine, but it fell to the pit. Oh, I see now. Poor little retarded man. He 
 is selling a string for a nickle. "Come over here little retarded man", I called. He gimped over 
 to me with a string. I was a wonderful string, about 2 inches long and brown. I reached under my 
 fingernail and pulled out a dirty nickle. I flipped it up to the nice retarded man who took that 
 nickle. I wonderful smile spread across his face like for once he had succeeded in life. Life hadn't 
 kicked him the balls this time, no he had made a sell, a living indeed. I was filled with warm 
 liquid. I had helped this poor man. I opend my paw and extended it toward his large grinning pumpkinhead 
 of a face. I was ready to complete the sale. I wanted my string. I had plans for that string. But 
 the poor retarded man, seeing my intent, pulled his string back with greed. He then turned and 
 started a mad gimp towards the small pool of water where he dove in and disappeared. Dang, once 
 again, sitting here without a string, and a nickel short. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: yago0o0o0l
Rating: 10
Date: May 9, 2008 8:35 pm PT
Review:  Call of Duty 4 takes on the use of some of the latest graphics and finally added ragdoll physics. 
 a nother cool thing is the air support that is really a usefull option in the game like call in 
 a UAV to spot enemies in RADAR after getting a 3 kill streak and the new gagets.
  call of duty 4 is a great game but the singel player is really short although the multiplayer mode 
 is really great that it is the best of the game. how to crate your own class and add certain perks 
 and weapons to each. you can create a class. you hand is open in the multiplayer mode. and there 
 are also many different types of games you can choose to play even tho i personally play most team 
 death match which is very fast paced and very exciting. 
  
  
  
  So Call of Duty 4 : modern warfare is a great game for multiplayer which can last for a long time 
 and always trying to get the more skins and completing all the challenges that maks you go for 
 it (more than 100 h ) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 00Wu
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 7, 2008 8:20 pm PT
Review:  call of duty is a great game that although the single player missions feel a bit short the multiplayer 
 aspect definitely makes up for it. The single player part of the game feels right and it very fun 
 to play thru. there are many missions where i've gone "wow that was awesome". the weapons are unique 
 and extremely fun to shoot with even tho you may end up only using 2 of your favorite guns through-out 
 the entire game or so. 
  
  the multiplayier aspect of the game however is the best of the game. you are given many options 
 of how to crate your own class and add certain perks and weapons to each. you can create a class 
 to meet any problem you encounter whether it be a sniper or a machine gun carrying mad man. and 
 there are also many different types of games you can choose to play even tho i personally play 
 most team death match which is very fast paced and very exciting. 
  
  overall: the game is great, the graphics look very nice, the gameplay is awesome, despite the short 
 single player missions there is very little wrong with game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Celrebro
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 7, 2008 3:48 am PT
Review:  Infinity Ward finally decided to leave World War 2, and enter the Modern age of warfare, and while 
 doing so, did quite a job at making a in-depth, realistic, and fun game added to the Call of Duty 
 series.
  Call of Duty 4 takes on the use of some of the latest graphics and finally added ragdoll physics 
 in to the game but still keeping the death animations while having the ragdoll physics mostly kicking 
 in after the animations. The work on the visuals and details really make all its battlefields look 
 very much of pretty, and some of the scenes in the campaign mode are really well done with using 
 the graphics to their advantage making it as cinematic as possible.
  
  Starting up the campaign, straight from the beginning it begins to dive in to the great storyline 
 it features, meeting the main characters of the story and finding out what's going on in this current 
 modern world of warfare, the campaign takes you through multiple characters perspectives in their 
 different position in the war, with great twists to it and a events you won't see coming. Although 
 the campaign really is very well done, it turns out to be short lived, the campaign would be worth 
 about as much as a movie, as it has the quality of a great movie, but at the same length, but still 
 has a small bit of replayability for jumping back in to your favorite levels, with quite a few 
 of them being a lot of fun to play, and some hidden unlockables to be found to add some extra fun
 
  
  Then jumping over to the multiplayer side of the game, the multiplayer side will keep you hooked 
 in with a wide variety of modes and options for the servers to suit every type of player, including 
 the classical styles of gameplay and some other popular modes from other games, as well as new 
 modes. The multiplayer mode has had a lot put in to it to really keep you going and reward you 
 for playing, with the addition of the ranks/levels with each having unlocks of new weapons or perks, 
 and each weapon having its own unlocks of modifications and skins to really keep you playing to 
 get them all! Call of Duty 4 also features a lot of customization, due to the ranks and unlocks 
 that you can gain, and putting together your own custom classes choosing the primary weapon you 
 want to use which can range from rifles, snipers, light machine guns, sub machine guns, and shotguns, 
 and selecting a pistol, and your three perks, which can really add to the sort of strategies you 
 can use within the game, whether you want to be a stealthy sniper or a heavy machine gunner, the 
 choices are really yours. Also to add more to the strategies while in game is the new "air support" 
 abilities which are rewarded from kill streaks, like the ability to call in a UAV to spot enemies 
 in RADAR after getting a 3 kill streak. The game modes can vary from your normal death match styles, 
 to Counter-Strike style search and destroy with one team defending two targets and the other planting 
 a bomb to destroy either one of them to win, to other modes like HQ mode which is like a capture 
 the hill mode only with capturing the Voodoo Envy laptops and holding on to them for a minute.
 
  
  So altogether Call of Duty 4 is a great game for multiplayer which can last for a long time and 
 always trying to get the best skins and completing all the challenges, while the campaign has a 
 great story line and very cinematic, making it a instant hit which will defiantly last for some 
 time to come.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: English_Death
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 5, 2008 10:57 pm PT
Review:  I originally bought the PS3 version as I wanted a top game for my PS3. Since then I felt I was 
 missing out on my 360 with achievements and online gaming. 
  
  So I bought the 360 version, happy days.
  
  A couple of days later I found a PC version at 
 a very cheap price so i bought that also.
  
  Of the 3 versions I own, I think the PC has the edge.
  
  Why? Well it's nuts. I am mad, raving, 
 foaming at the mouth, NUTS.
  
  Graphically, slightly better than the console (if you have the hardware, however it ran great on 
 my old 6800gt at 1024) . This improved quality is probably because of the higher res I can get out 
 of the game. But to be honest all 3 look stunning.
  
  Control on the PC is better/easier. I play better on the PC than the consoles. Probably because 
 I have been a mouser since the Atari ST days.
  
  Single player is exactly the same short, but intense game.
  
  Multiplayer is where PC really 
 does shine as I am sure you would expect. The server selection is the same as on most PC based 
 games. You select internet and you get a list of all severs running (lowest number I have seen 
 so far is 900ish) . You can select server details so you can see if the game is set up as you would 
 like to play. So pretty much standard server interface for PC, which is a very good thing, as the 
 consoles don't allow this and select the best match game for you and dump you in the game, which 
 can be frustrating as you try to find the game or map you want to play.
  
  But where Multiplayer really does shine is in the number of players in a game. On PC upto 64 (however 
 I have only seen upto 45) . Which is insane. Talk about fast paced action. Console I think have 
 a max of 16 players with Free for All being 8 players. This can be tough, but with the PC fully 
 loaded with max number of players, wow. This really sorts of the men from the boys. Spawn, shoot, 
 die. Simple as that. If you win a map that is fully loaded with players, you really are good.
 
  
  The most fun map with a full compliment of players is "Shipment". Get yourself and machine guns 
 which holds around 100 rounds, "Perk" up with either "marterdom" or "last stand". Spawn, targer 
 the spawn site opposite. And fire. Don't run, just fire. I got in my best game 161 kills and died 
 80 odd times. Absolutely mad, but real fun. You can only do short busts of this level of intensity 
 as it really is wearing. But if you find a server with a good map rotation, it makes a pleasant 
 change.
  
  COD 4 on all systems if fast and intensive run and gun online gaming, but on PC it can be (as you 
 select the server and therefore number of players) even my manic.
  
  I am a BF2 player 1st and foremost, but COD 4 is a stunning game in every department.
  
  So 
 ask yourself, own a PC? Play online? Like shooters? Like to achieve skills? Like to "Rank" up? 
 Want a top quality game? Want it top quality game at a bargain price?
  
  But COD 4 on PC. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: infra500
Rating: 9
Date: May 3, 2008 9:52 am PT
Review:  Its a good game with great graphics , especially details are awesome weapons are designed in details 
 the envoirement is quite realistic ... gameplay is smooth and didnt find any issues while playing 
 Overall, though I quite like Call of Duty 4, its core gameplay tries very hard to be humble despite 
 the amazing presentation and strongly told tale. The basic, moment-to-moment activities you'll 
 be performing in the game are so rote at this point that it's hard to get overly excited about 
 the experience. When compared with titles like Rainbox Six Vegas, it's also hard to understand 
 why I can't more effectively duck behind cover. In a game ostensibly touting modern military tactics, 
 it's altogether unclear why 'duck' and 'crouch' are my only two real options when avoiding withering 
 enemy fire. Even still, this game is a watershed for the CoD series. It's a breakthrough in technology 
 and story for Infinity Ward, and sets the bar incredibly high for future modern warfare FPS titles. 
 Via the online shooter component the game also has quite a bit of 'replay' value, and is a quality 
 showing in the midst of a very busy holiday gaming season. Call of Duty 4 is worth a look from 
 any fan of the genre, if only for an example of how to tell a story in the midst of a terrible 
 (and timely) war. Hope you will enjoy the gme. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: saginadir
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 3, 2008 8:16 am PT
Review:  First I would like to say to you that the single-player mode is simply horrible, it's unrealistic, 
 Un-fun, Too-short, Total waste of time.
  Once i got that out i can continue the review.
  
  The multiplayer simply rocks, OMG, After you'll try it once, You'll come back to it again and 
 again, It is so addicting. When i first saw pictures of the game before it came out, it looked 
 kinda creepy and bad, It surprised me, Really, The flow of the game is just amazing, The realistic 
 graphics are stunning, It's shocking each and every time i see it, The battles feel chaotic, I 
 cannot even describe it in words, You'll have to try it for yourself.
  
  In the multiplayer you start as a privet, And have very little choice, After a while you gain experience, 
 There are totally 55 levels and will take you 20-30 hours to reach level 55, In the process of 
 leveling you'll get new weapons and perks, You have different multiplayer modes to attach to your 
 mood, You'll love every single second of it, Trust me.
  
  But if the game was perfect I would have given it a 10... but it isn't, The multiplayer has some 
 bugs, And they can be annoying as hell, Like spawning in the enemy base and basically spawning 
 and dying immediately because the computer has spawn you in the line of fire, The game needs a 
 little bit fine tuning, nothing that cannot be fixed by a patch or two.
  
  To sum up, Buy the game, Install the game, Skip single-player, Have fun.
  (P. S. the single-player 
 is only good to give you a background about the maps you are playing in the multiplayer, enjoy) 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bloodclots99
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 1, 2008 7:38 pm PT
Review:  The Fourth, and the best. Call of Duty at its best, cod4 shows that omaha beach isnt the only battlefield 
 we want to fight on (in other words this totally beats world war 2) . 
  
  Facts:
  The next gen games are turning out to be very complex with alot of online and short campaign modes 
 which roles along with this game. Next gen graphics are incredible. The new Features about this 
 game are how you can create your own class while online, you can also shoot right through walls 
 with certain guns. Every gun in the game has a more realistic flow to it starting with, recoil, 
 model design, bullet shot flashes and even the bullet impacts onto other objects. The sniper also 
 has a more realistic feel to it as if you were actually holding the gun, the gun moves slightly 
 when aiming through the scope. In order for you to keep it from moving you need to hold down shift 
 and your character will hold his breath.
  
  Campaign:
  Although it's very short, the least expected happens. The ending is incredible with amazing voice 
 acting and the graphics are amazing.......... maybe the best graphics to date. Unlike the other 
 Call of Duty games, you get to be more then one character, "Soap and Private Jackson", i know weird 
 names but that is what makes this game unique. Overall i give the campaign a ****1/2 star.
  
  Multiplayer:
  Mutiplayer to be honest is one of the most addicting things i have ever done. 
 It has amazingly designed maps, the character models look just like they do in singleplayer, and 
 its amazing how well a dx9 computer can handle it. For the gameplay... it's no different then the 
 campaign because the controls and the abilities are exactly the same but on the other hand the 
 only problem i usually have is "Punkbuster". It sometimes shuts down and always has these weird 
 problems. But that is my computer. So for Multiplayer online i give it a ***** star.
  
  Overall this game gets a 9.5/10
  for it's amazing capability of being real!!
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: GI_JOE3333
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 30, 2008 7:33 pm PT
Review:  This is a great game to buy, you will spends hours of fun playing this game and its very addictive 
 also. Beat the game and it will unlock some cool features in it, you can play it in a different 
 way. This game is worth every penny or I should say every dollar. I spend alot of hours trying to 
 beat this game on the hardest level and it was impossible to do, so you might have to bring it down 
 a notch so you dont go crazy. I always like to play any game at the hardest level to see if its 
 possible to beat it. Its has alot of cool features in it, like the night vision in the helicopter 
 looking for the enemies, that was so cool blow up cars and trucks and anything else you can get 
 away with. Watch out for friendly fire, You don't want to shoot any of us. Just a great game all 
 around I had allot of fun playing it and you will to. You won't be disapointed, trust me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sharier
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 30, 2008 6:07 am PT
Review:  From the shelf package, you already know that Call of Duty 4 is not about the second world war 
 anymore -- its about modern warfare. If you have played Battlefield: 2042, you know what it means 
 by modern warfare. But when you are dealing with COD, you should expect better. This is a game 
 I have been waiting for many months and believe me it won't disappoint you a bit well, except 
 for the fact that when it ends, you will beg for more. They should have made the game longer in 
 single player mode.
  What made COD a very successful FPS war game? It had always been its engrossing action combined 
 with a thrilling story telling. When you are playing COD, you will have no choice but to follow 
 the story of the game. And this story will require you to use different kinds of guns and ammo, 
 use different types of vehicle and fight from a very tight time-bound situation with no option 
 to avoid that fight. The game is very speedy and some action scenes can be so intense that you 
 might damage your mouse.
  This is the same spirit in which Infinity Ward designed COD 4. As long as the thrill goes the shift 
 from WW2 setting to a modern anti-terrorism warfare did not alter the status a bit. Old fans won't 
 feel rejected. 
  What will strike you from the beginning is the brilliantly beautiful visual opening of the first 
 chapter of the game where you raid a ship in a stormy sea. 
  The models of the vehicles including ships, guns and locations have been worked out with amazing 
 details -- making them feel real in the game. Plus, these will make you feel like staring at the 
 graphics to see if these have any flaws. My congrats to the developers for a job really well done. 
 
  The game hovers around -- what else -- an Islamist terrorist threat, with the warfare taking place 
 from Iraq to Russia. The ultimate threat is launching of nuke warheads from Russia on USA. While 
 this is a contemporary cliche, the COD writers did wonderful job in making you feel like really 
 chasing a real terrorist group. The villains have life-like characters.
  As a COD player, you are part of a team and you must act according to the game designers' wish. 
 This puts you in certain challenges which you might be able to avoid in an open ended game. 
  The COD player also takes diverse roles, from being a sniper to aerial attack launcher. 
  All 
 in all, this is the best game I have played in, may be, a decade. I just wish they made the game 
 longer. After you finish the Singleplayer mode, however, you will unlock Arcade mode and play the 
 game in various difficulty setting. But that's not a replacement for a longer game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GameScoutKL
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 29, 2008 6:11 am PT
Review:  I played the first call of duty game about 1 year ago, yeah i know i'm way behind but since then 
 i played and finished all the call of duty games and i finished call of duty 2 and 4 about 3 times
 
  I knew call of duty 4 had to be amazing when i heard of it, at first i was dissapointed at the 
 fact that it was a modern warfare game but i'm an optimist so i said that this may be the game 
 that will introduce me and force me to like modern warfare fps, and so it did
  Call of duty 4 has the best fps campaign i ever saw it's just breathtaking it makes u understand 
 what it means to be a soldier, how it would be like to loose ur life and not know who took it, 
 in the game u have 2 main characters one as a marine and one as a SAS special ops, i wont spoil 
 the plot here but i'll tell u that this game will show u how it would be to actualy be caught in 
 a nuclear explosion there are different types of missions in cod4 such as being a soldier where 
 u have to kill a lot or being a sniper when u have to watch out not to get killed or the most orriginal 
 being an aircraft gunner but not just any aircraft and not just any gunner.
  The graphics are amazing u can realy see the detail of the game like u can see the bullets of certain 
 weapons or the crater made by a grenade or the blood shooting out of a body when its hit. The sound 
 effects are very amazing as well the weapons sound realistic and they make u feel like u can realy 
 penetrate flesh and armour when fireing
  Multiplayer in cod4 is very awesome but sometimes very frustrating cause the best players wind 
 up in the same teams sometimes and it makes getting kills difficult when ur a novice but that comes 
 to pass when u get better also the perks they put in are fun to play with as well as new weapons, 
 weapon customizations that all come with u when u are promoted, the ranks are very well organized 
 u get thru them very fast at the begining and slower as u move up the board 
  So there are two bad things in cod4 one is that the campaign is very short and two that the multiplayer 
 may seem to be unfair sometimes but still this is the game that i think will give upcoming games 
 as far as 2011 a run for their money 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zacho123456
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 29, 2008 4:57 am PT
Review:  I have only played a few missions, but the game is a lot of fun. Perhaps I was expecting too much 
 though. It seems just like COD 2 in a different setting. I guess there is only so much you can 
 do with a shooter when it comes down to it. The story and gameplay are both good, as well as the 
 graphics. My video card is only lower-midrange, so I have to use lower settings, but it still looks 
 great and plays without slowdowns. By the way, I can get good framerate at a much higher resolution 
 than the defalut settings. 
  The only complaint I have is the save system which I absolutely hate. The game is constantly autosaving 
 but does not allow a manual save at any point in the game. What is up with that. Did I somehow 
 start playing on a console and not know it ??!!!
  If you do manually save, you lose your progress back to the last checkpoint. Really annoying.
 
  Overall, best game out recently, just wish you could save anywhere on the PC version. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ME_BOT
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 26, 2008 1:29 pm PT
Review:  This is a great game hands down and I would suggest it to anyone who likes FPS games. The single 
 player missions are very well thought out and interesting as well. They certainly change it up 
 a lot in the game and the chopper missions are so much FUN!!! It may be short in content/length 
 but the overall quality of game play really puts this package together nicely (I won't touch on 
 multiplayer as I don't play on line) . The graphics and effects are very good as well and although 
 it may not be up to a "Crysis" kind of standard, this game absolute destroys Crysis in sheer game 
 play and enjoyment. I played Crysis first and then COD4 and this game can just ooze quality FPS 
 playing. 
  
  My 8800 GT just loves this game!!!
  
  It just goes to show you that all flash and no substance doesn't necessarily make for a great experience. 
 This game is just so well done and I can't remember having so much fun since HL2!
  
  COD5 please
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: jesusismyhomie
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 25, 2008 12:43 pm PT
Review:  Multiplayer in Call of Duty 4 is one of the best shooters out there.
  The intense 40 on 40 online play is absolutely made for your money.
  Reasons why you should buy 
 this game:
  
  -Amazing Single Player (short though)
  -Sound is great!
  -Graphics are up to date compared to games nowa' days.
  -Mulitplayer is the best online experience 
 you will ever have
  -Lan games are amazing to shoot your friends
  -You will get ADDICTED (maybe thats a bad thing lol)
  -The weapons are very balanced
  -Perks 
 make this game NUTS.
  -You will make your friends jealous if you buy it. XD
  
  But overall this package is absolutely what you are looking for if you are a fan of 1st person 
 shooters and even strategy games.
  
  I recommend this to everyone that wants the best for their money.
  
  -SR-
  SirRenolds14 LVL 
 55 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Whitsel
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 13, 2009 8:23 am PT
Review:  Okay, first off: 'for the most part' the campaign is fairly linear. Though some of the missions 
 are as open as FFOW's SP missions but in this case you arent just running around shooting crap 
 skipping your way through the cutscenes, not giving a shiot about what's going on or who's dieing. 
 In COD4's campaign you are totally connected to the soldiers in the battle and you cant help but 
 feel an emotional attachment to some of the characters. I personnally felt attatched to Sgt. Jaskson 
 of the Marine 1st Recon unit you fight as through some of the game. I wont spoil anything story-wise 
 as I would have to slap myself for doing that to you, but what happens to him made that part of 
 my heart that I keep burried deep in my stomache (yes down there) that holds the *feelings* and 
 other crap come right into my throat and gave me one of the emotional moments like when I thought 
 the Chief died in H3.
  I am not sure you should spend 50 bucks on this just for the SP game but there is the Pezbot that 
 is in early alpha right now but works well enough for playing MP with bots. If that succeeds in 
 any good way then yea, combined with decent bots in MP and this good of a campaign, this game is 
 definitely worth 50 bucks. If you have an extra 50 or a birthday or something coming up then go 
 for it but earned-cash this is work about 30 dollars. Still alot for a SP game that isnt the most 
 dynamic, open or freeroaming out there, but the "quality" (as gamespot and I call it) is worth that 
 much atleast.
  The campaign lasts about 4-6 hours on recruit and prolly 7-10 (depending on you) on the harder difficulties. 
 All the combat is extremely fun and the sneak-around and AC130 gunship missions are.... well, let's 
 just say you have to experience them. They are fun but mostly fill in a wonderous story and emotional 
 element, I would say they are 15$ of the 30$ to pay even though there are only a few of them. Continuing 
 on, I did say the campaign was fairly linear and it is but it gives you enough room and the AI 
 on both sides is smart enough to give a different sum on each playthrough. A note about the AI... 
 they are suprisingly good! I thought COD4 was going to be focused on MP gameplay so I was surprised 
 to find the campaign so enjoyable and the AI so intelligent. They arent the most incredible you'll 
 find in any game out there but they sure do make this game fun!
  The weapons and gadets and all the stuff like bullet-penetration and some destruction gives the 
 game a true Next-Gen feel and it doesnt feel like IW slapped it all together to give an illusion, 
 though the engine does seem that way. I am in NO WAY downing the graphics or effects of the engine 
 that powers this game but to me it seems like a tweaked COD2 engine with ragdoll physics.
  To conclude: this is THE BEST single player game I have played in a while. Crysis was good but 
 IMO this beats it out of the water. Crysis had alot of plot holes and didnt really reveal anything 
 whereas COD4 starts and concludes one in full-detail, and it's not boring (Crysis kinda dragged 
 along at times) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: furionpride
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 24, 2008 7:59 pm PT
Review:  Well, I reviewed Cod 3 awhile back stating that Treyarch was a better story teller. I take that 
 comment back COMPLETELY!! I've never experienced anything so dramatic and intense in a video game. 
 Though it is short, there is enough creative content in here that it's worth playing through again 
 and again! Beautiful graphics, beautiful animation, beautiful soundtrack, beautiful sound effects, 
 beautiful presentation... period. This is the game of the year people, buy it and experience it 
 for yourself, please! It cannot be overstated that this game is THE best out there right now. Yes 
 the single player is great, and so is the multiplayer. The ranking system is what keeps you addicted 
 unlocking weopons and other gear. So go out there and have fun! Once you're a 5-star general, then 
 you can get some sleep, :) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kuyt19
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 23, 2008 6:55 am PT
Review:  First of all, WOW! Where'd that come from? I never thought the guys making WW2 games would do a 
 good job in making a modern war game. Boy, was i wrong. I've never played the first two games and 
 didn't plan on playing this either, but i'm glad i did. Because i would have missed one of the 
 best fps out in 2007, and the best i've played so far. Highly addictive and a nice change from 
 the all too common and overused WW2 setting. The AI is impressive and the graphics are pretty solid 
 too. The storytelling is immersive and thrilling. Espicially the way Srgt. Jackson died and the 
 way the marines fell in the end. And the user-action during the final cut-scene was nicely done. 
 This is the way a good storytelling should be in a game. Two thumbs up to the developers. Looking 
 at the other big names in 2007, this game was better than Airborne and so much better than the 
 overrated Crysis. This game was in no way meant to be revolutionary, so don't expect too many new 
 things. It's just that all the elements in the game balanced each other perfectly. So, if you've 
 not yet played this game, then quit wasting time and get it while its out there. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: unst4blec0d3r
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 21, 2008 2:28 pm PT
Review:  The single player campaign was one of the most enjoyable I've had in a FPS. Although at the very 
 first level I was not convinced. When I started noticing rip offs from the script to the movies 
 Aliens, I was hesitant. However after that introductory level the game really began to take off.
 
  
  I especially enjoyed the fact that much of the game play was outdoors. First person shoots that 
 are mostly indoors with a narrow FOV usually make me a little motion sick. Not so with COD 4, I 
 could sit and play the game for hours and have nothing but fun.
  
  I also think, just like the modern war movies, COD takes a different perspective to war and combat. 
 Not glorifying it as much as games in the past, but portraying it as something difficult that sometimes 
 must simply be done.
  
  When playing multi player, I found that some of the maps were not the best and encouraged spawn 
 camping in the free for all game types. But if you have ever enjoyed a FPS game before, you must 
 add COD 4 to your collection. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pseudodog07
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 20, 2008 7:53 pm PT
Review:  Each time a new Call of Duty comes out and I get excited about it, but ultimately I end up disappointed. 
 The new ones still pale in comparison to the first.
  
  Graphics - excellent, nice lighting and foliage. Certainly as good as anything out right now.
 
  
  Gameplay - not really much different in single player from the first ones and kind of short. MP 
 has ranks and many game modes, but no modes that are really fresh and exciting. Youv'e just got 
 new skins on old modes. Team Deathmatch, Deathmatch, Domination, CS mode, and a few others. We've 
 played these game modes before and really there isn't much new and special about them. COD1 had 
 Base Assault, the best HQ mode, and some others not included here. COD2 had less, but at least 
 the CTF was memorable.
  
  Ranks and awards - There are many things to achieve in the game if you are into that and can play 
 small map spray and pray nade fest without getting bored. Personally I'd like to see something 
 like Rainbow Six Vegas 2 xp system implemented into the next COD, where your rewards and XP are 
 half gotten by playing the singleplayer mode using different strategies.
  
  Overall, it's a very good game. But, not really as revolutionary as you might think. And if you 
 played the first games in the series you may be wondering where all the great and fresh game modes 
 went. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: raihan_07
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 20, 2008 1:54 pm PT
Review:  Call Of Duty is one of the most favorite games of mine. Call Of duty 4 is the best of this series. 
 Its storyline and game play is very attractive and realistic. You will never feel bore while playing 
 this game. There is everything in this game. Action, adventure, tactics, climax, emotion, and excitement 
 everything is present here. It is also relevant with the name  modern warfare. You will find all 
 new weapons and tactics in this game. Graphic is superb. But still it is possible to play this 
 game with a medium configuration. Story based on Middle East and Russia. Two different characters, 
 two stories but have connection with each other. There is nothing extra-ordinary in the image of 
 the hero. They like ordinary members of USMC and SAS. It makes the story more realistic. Sound 
 is very good and very suitable with the game. So, overall it is a breath taking, mind blowing game. 
 Go for it. Play it. Enjoy it. Bye Everyone. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bstcrew
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 19, 2008 7:53 pm PT
Review:  You are running for your life in some middle-eastern town while bullets are flying inches from 
 you body. A flash grenade explodes in the room you just entered. All you can see is a bright white 
 light and your ears are ringing from the blast. You stumble around the room totaly unaware that 
 an enemy is aiming his gun at you. The ringing starts to fade a bit but is replaced with the rattle 
 of a machine gun. The last thing you see are the boots of the soldier that just shot you.
  
  Yeah, war is not nice. They certainly manached to capture the suspense and chaos of a modern 
 battlefield in COD4. The visiual presentation is top qualtity stuff. Models are highly detailed 
 and the lighting effects help to make this a real feast. You will need the proper hardware to be 
 able to play it with all up therethe graphical bells and whistles turned on offcourse.
  
  The audio is right as well. The voiceacting in the single player campaign is done very professionaly 
 and the script is pretty good. It's actualy realy outstanding. The story has been done before however. 
 It's the standard 'crazy terrorist has nuclear weapons' affair but it is told in a realy compelling 
 way. 
  
  Sadly though the exclellent single player campaign is over all to soon. I played trough it in two 
 sittings of about 2 to 3 hours. There are some incentives to play the campaign again (at higher 
 difficulty or with an arcade twist) but I still feel that a game like this should last for at least 
 10 hours.
  
  Luckely there is the multi player to validate spending 60 on it. You can choose between various 
 play styles and there is a very large player base so you won't be having troubles finding a server 
 with a low ping. Be prepared to be murdered a lot though. At this point there are a lot of very 
 good players online who don't have pitty on newer players. So much so that it can get frustrating. 
 
  
  So all in all I can say that this a recommended buy for realistic shooter fans. Be prepared for 
 the short length of the singleplayer campaign and the steep learnig curve of the multiplayer though! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SunnyKatt
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 19, 2008 11:33 am PT
Review:  This isn't the best shooter right now, and having played this and halo 3 and crysis, I'd have to 
 say crysis, because it's more intense and more plain fun. But this is about this game.
  
  
  (Played on ps3)
  I'm spoiled, I'm used to the graphics in crysis, so when I played this I 
 (also as a game developer) started to pick it apart. The graphics were good, but a couple of things 
 really really annoyed me.
  
  1. Total lack of shadow jittering! Shadow Jittering is when the edges of the shadows look soft 
 and real. These shadows looked blocky and pixelated! It repulsed me especially when small figures 
 were being portrayed over larger walls.
  2. Z-slashing on faces of characters. Every now and then there is a texture flash and an odd line 
 comes out of a guy's face, usually around the eye. Tisk tisk tisk.
  3. Particles sometimes went through walls, major hit to realism. On the first level when you're 
 running through the submarine, the spashes of the water are coming right through the walls sometimes. 
 Tisk tisk tisk again.
  4. The rpg explosions were sickening. The first time I saw an rpg fly into a building I screamed 
 "WHAT? IS THAT IT?" because a puff of smoke is basically what the explosion is. I'm spoiled - In 
 crysis, when a rocket flys into something, It's loud, the flash blinds you, and the building is 
 ripped apart, sending particles and hunks of rubble everywhere. Amazing.
  
  Now to gameplay!!!
  
  Gameplay was great, and firefights felt good. The gun shooting felt good, 
 not as good as the shooting in crysis but still pretty good. The best part was that when you shot 
 enemies, they reacted very good. In crysis, when you shoot a guy, he stumbles or something. In 
 cod4, they actually limp or fall over. Very very cool.
  
  The storyline was generic, but it worked and was still fun.
  
  overall I give it an 8.
  -1 
 for graphical flaws
  -1 for... well... not making me say "WOW!" enough.
  
  Overall, I still will play this often. Glad I bought it, good fun.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: dantey1
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 19, 2008 3:11 am PT
Review:  The film industry is known for its cinematic and action packed films. Explosions, terrorists, gun 
 fight, heroes and so on and so on, and so on. At times, you may even wish that you would be a part 
 of all this. Well, thanks to Infinity Ward, you can now take part in such a blockbuster. Call of 
 Duty 4 is a short, but yet an exciting game, that won't make you regret your decision to play this 
 game.
  
  Until now, all COD games have been about WW2. And there are other franchises set in this war. So 
 you may now be tired of playing Normandy again and again. With COD4 sub title Modern Warfare, you 
 understand that the action takes place in nowadays. A new terrorist threat is upon the world, and 
 you play as a British and USA solders to stop the bad guys with the help of your fellow soldiers. 
 Although at first it may not sound like anything special, in reality the game has an exciting single 
 player campaign, and you can really see, that it is based on events taking part in the real world.
 
  The main problem here is that the game is very short. You can finish it in probably six hours. 
 But its short length is compensated by the fact, that this is a very event heavy game. Practically 
 every minute something is happening. Especially are good the story sequences, which may make an 
 emotional impact on you. The gameplay itself has not changed a lot in its core. This still is a 
 linear shooter, where you shoot down men, and trigger one script after another. To help takedown 
 men, you have can shoot by aiming, which is more effective than shooting from the side. 
  
  To make the action endless, Infinity Ward made an interesting thing. Until you trigger another 
 sequins or script, the enemies will spawn nonstop. So you may be stuck at some point for five minutes 
 and thinking: "When will the enemies end?" Well the answer is never. Some may think that this is 
 bad, because they may be killed all the time. But there are two things to that. One is that like 
 in previous Call of Duty games, your health regenerates if you take cover and stop taking damage. 
 Two, the fact that there are endless enemies makes the fact that there are endless things to shoot. 
 
  
  When you are done with the single player campaign, you can burst into the multiplayer part of the 
 game. You have you standard modes, like deathmatch, team deathmatch and others. The games multiplayer 
 would be already great if there was only run and shoot stuff, because of COD4 good game mechanic. 
 But the developers added little RPG elements. As you play and kill duds, you gain experience points. 
 When you have enough EXP, you unlock new weapons and perks that give you special abilities. And 
 this adds a complete new layer to the game, because every enemy you will encounter in the multiplayer 
 may have a different set of perks than you, thus a different game style than you.
  
  As for graphics and sound, then there is no problem with that. Character models are great and well 
 detailed. Lighting is great to, and it is especially helpful, when it comes to making the right 
 atmosphere. Night missions have the right dark blue tone to it, and the sun in daylight combats 
 makes everything bright and hot. As for the sound, then it is mostly ok. Bullet fire sound good, 
 and explosions fell real when you hear them. The voice acting is fine to, but sometime it fell 
 odd. It is noticeable in the games Russian. Sometimes everything is all right, but sometimes the 
 American accent is noticeable, which makes a really odd contrast.
  
  Overall the game is fantastic. It has a short, but jet an exciting campaign, that will suck you 
 right in. The multiplayer is great and interesting. And the presentation itself in very good, with 
 fine graphics and ok sound. If you like fast action games, or good games in general, then you own 
 yourself to get a copy of Call of Duty 4.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: TooNu
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 17, 2008 11:34 pm PT
Review:  COD4 is a bit like that dream where you get hit by a truck and wake up sharp and awake. Nothing 
 you have played before prepares you for the harsh reality that this game has to offer, you are 
 going to die and you are going to die all the time, every time and usually from a grenade.
  
  The single player campaign has no nice way of easing you in gently, sure the tutorial gives 
 you the basic movements and functions that all FPS games have to offer but as soon as the first 
 mission comes, you are on your own with nobody to guide your hand. Many players who have experienced 
 FPS games before (and who has not these days?) will still have difficulty adjusting to the gameplay 
 of quick gunfights followed by intense commands followed by the seemingly endless running from 
 grenades. It pretends to be a game but instead it offers only a taste of what the real thing must 
 be like. Duck and cover, run from grenade, get shot at while running, protect your brothers, advance, 
 repeat.
  
  As some have rightly said, the single campaign is fairly short but it IS intense enough that its 
 just the right length. Anymore nuke explosions, race against the clocks, stay hidden, run to cover, 
 run from grenades, get into that cover!, run from that grenade!! and it becomes a little nerve 
 racking... at least if you get into it unlike some souless gamers.
  
  Oh and the Aliens movie franchise gets more than the average number of references. Lieutenent Vasquez 
 take a bow, "Check those corners!" - Captain Price, "I like to keep this... for close encounters" 
 - Gaz.
  
  Multiplayer is as expected. Many people who have never met before scrabling for the same points. 
 This means you have Zerging idiots banding up in groups of 8 to get 1 frag. This means you have 
 a start that is testimount to grenade bombardment, i personally do not understand the need to throw 
 your grenades at enemy you can't even see at such random areas of the map.. its all a bit "noob" 
 for my liking but hey, this is Online you expect this.
  Multiplayer also gives you a leveling system based on how much you play followed by how well you 
 did during the match. Just for winning you are given a larger score bonus than losing. So AFKing 
 during each match just to get your points, promotions while keeping your Kills to Death ratio at 
 0-0 is a handy way of looking like you are "pro" while actually not. So do not let the ranks fol 
 you into thinking whoever is great at COD4, this is not the case for every high ranked player.
 
  
  Multiplayer gives you either the greatest joy in a nice frag or brilliant moment of team work, 
 or it gives you the highest level of frustration as the game seemingly on purpose spawns you in 
 the most retarded place over and over again where you are finished off by random grenades, spawn 
 campers, aerial bombardment, stray bullet syndrome or simply a teamates lack of mobility keeping 
 you stuck in a doorway or out in the open. Frustration is the name of the game, if you are comfortable 
 in these surroundings then this is no problem for you.
  For those that like tactics, teamplay, non-dolphin diving, noob-tubing antics then stay well away 
 from random COD4 maps. Instead stick to either the battlefield series or get yourself a clan and 
 play only clan games with TS, Vent, xfire etc up and running.
  
  Either way, if your gfx card is up to the challenge, then this game looks and behaves awesomely. 
 Its a real treat to see a game like this, the lighting is just one factor, the terrain effects 
 are another, if your gfx card is a bit old or slightly lame then upgrade now you fools! Oh and 
 get yourself 4gigs of ram, 4 gigs is the new 2 gigs, and as its cheap there is no excuse.
  
  I would suggest that COD4 is nigh on perfect in single player but that might be taking it too 
 far but no game has made me cower for cover or given me more reason to get so worked up about combat 
 in a game as this has done. The only downsides for me all revolve around the multiplayer aspect. 
 It is fun if you are resonably good at it, if you memorize all the maps and work out all the good 
 spots but otherwise its ever so frustrating. Your life expectancy is similar to the average life 
 expectancy of an officer in Veitnam which was around 8seconds.
  
  So overall:
  - Single campaign is great, just don't let the grenade spam annoy you.
  - Multi-player is fun, 
 just don't let the even worse grenade spam annoy you.
  - The GFX are really well done, the atmosphere is really intense, the story and locations and music 
 all fit the bill for a great game. It's just not a classic. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 0c3an
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 17, 2008 7:55 pm PT
Review:  As mentioned before, many games have the graphics but not the gameplay. COD4 takes a combination 
 of amazing graphics, that are low enough so that most people can play it, and pairs it up with 
 the most fun and balanced FPS gameplay out there. It's main downfall comes from the lack of guests 
 online or multiplayer system links offline. I don't understand why they decided to compete with 
 halo, but not add these features that are essential in a game that competes with halo. The gameplay 
 far surpasses halo 3, but when I'm with friends I often find myself playing Halo 3 just because 
 we often have a group of 5-8 and want to all play. Nevertheless this is a great game to have for 
 online play. I'm not one to care to much for the story of a FPS because I believe it's all about 
 the competetiveness of multiplayer, but although it's short it is also very interesting and worthwhile. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: charles_giroux
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 17, 2008 9:48 am PT
Review:  Three years ago, when World of Warcraft came out, it was time for me to stop playing CS1.6 as it 
 had gotten a bit boring; my clan wouldnt scrim anymore and the game would just not be as attractive 
 as it used to be. So WoW came and I got taken away from the FPS scene for 3 years.
  
  Then COD4 came, and WoW was getting really really boring, so it made me quit it. 
  
  At first 
 it felt like playing CS1.6 again, not that the gameplay feels like 1.6 ,IT DOESNT !, it was just 
 the feeling I never had in any other FPS than 1.6. The feeling that everything in the game was 
 where it was supposed to be. 
  
  COD4 brings some fresh stuff to the FPS scene : the perks.
  
  Perks could be compared to permanent 
 power-ups you would get in old-school 1v1 shooters ALA Unreal and Quake. This is where the class 
 system makes its way into the game, as you level, you get the "ability" to make custom classes, 
 where you can choose the main gun, pistol, special grenades and 2 or 3 perks depending on the combo 
 you make. Here are some examples of perks : Higher HP, Higher velocity (you shoot faster) and the 
 ability to drop a grenade at your feet when you die.
  
  As in CS1.6, you can now "wall" your ennemies in COD, you probably think that this feature isnt 
 all that amazing, but let me tell you this : DUDE IT IS !!
  It just balances the game perfectly, since the maps are full of hidingplaces and buildings, adding 
 "walling" to the game a no-brainer.
  
  The graphics and sound are neat and pretty, but the music feels cheap and cheesy, that being said 
 it is probably the only thing you wont like about COD4.
  
  COD4 is an instant classic that will make you remember the old CS 1.6 time.
  
  -Charles 
::::::

::::::
UserName: justfei
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 16, 2008 9:27 pm PT
Review:  I can find no negative points about Call of Duty 4. This is probably the best shooter I have ever 
 played.
  
  The graphics are top class and do not need a super high end machine to run. The cutscenes are extremely 
 interesting and fantastically directed. The environments feel perfect and completely genuine. Sound 
 effects are top notch and the voice acting has been done with perfection. The storyline is one 
 of the best storylines to come out ever since Fallout 2.
  
  The multiplayer mode is super and is bundles of fun especially if you're playing this game at a 
 LAN party!
  
  This game may feel short, but the reason it does is because we are left wanting for much more and 
 cannot get enough of it! The ending also sets up nicely for the next sequel.
  
  All in all, this game is a sheer beauty and lovely in every way. Whether or not you are a gamer 
 or a movie fanatic, play this game. Playing this game is immersive as being a hero in a war movie.
 
  
  For years to come, Call of Duty 4 will definitely still be one of the greatest games I've ever 
 played. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: StupidCarnie
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 16, 2008 10:54 am PT
Review:  With most all games ive played I have always did everything I could to get all i can out of the 
 game i purchase. This means that I do everything possible in multiplayer that keeps me from getting 
 to bored. Also this means trying to get all of the achievements, and I do most of the time. The 
 games campaign was short but then again when you play it again for the veterans mode achievements 
 it feals alot longer and it is alot more challenging. You wouldent belive how many time I had attempted 
 to get the achievement Mile High Club. Also in the multiplayer department it creates an accessible 
 goal with prestige rankings and gave to at least me, a sense of accomplishment. I have fully beeten 
 the veterains campaign and aquired all of the intelegences, though i have yet to achieve a gold 
 cross rating in multiplayer. I still don't understand why people are still playing the poor multiplayer 
 that Halo 3 has to offer 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HavocEbonlore
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 16, 2008 7:42 pm PT
Review:  Multiplayer Review
  
  
  For me, CoD4 is a mixed bag. On the plus-side, the game has some extremely nice graphics, nice 
 physics, it appears to be very well optimized, action is intense, realistic, the weapons handle 
 very well, it has an extensive ability/weapon unlock system, and an EXP system piled up with tons 
 of challenges for EXP rewards. On the down-side, the maps are just too small to handle the chaotic 
 action, leading to alot of what I call "circumstantial deaths"; random grenade kills, alot of wrong-place-at-the-wrong-time 
 bullet-in-the-back moments, crowding problems on 30+ player servers, one-for-ones (one kill, die, 
 one kill, die..... not due to lack of player skill, but because there is ALWAYS someone up your ass 
 with these maps) , and the best for last..... the air-strikes and attack-choppers. Yes, calling in 
 air-strikes and attack-choppers on these little sandbox maps. Talk about packing the suitcase until 
 it busts.
  
  The maps just have a tendency to feel like arenas. If there's one word that I'd use to describe 
 the CoD4 maps, it would be cramped, like being really tall sitting in the back of a 2-seater car. 
 With the right amount of players though, you'll find that sweetspot when it comes to the map designs, 
 and once you've studied the flow of battle tendencies on each map (basically having a sixth-sense 
 in regards to where people are going to be) , then you can turn the tides in your favor. This is 
 true with any FPS though, but with CoD4, the maps are designed in such a way that having such a 
 sense is very beneficial.
  
  
  Annoyances:
  1) When you release the sprint-key, there's a moderate delay before your weapon becomes ready to 
 fire. Do not sprint around corners because your weapon will never be ready in time when you need 
 it. This also goes for landing from jumps.
  
  2) Aiming down the sights/scope is too slow if you come face to face with an enemy, you'll be dead 
 before you can get a shot off if attempting to aim. Best to spray and pray for upclose encounters, 
 or to just fire blindly when rounding a corner if your spidey-sense is tingling. With enough practice, 
 you can fire while aiming, or you can round corners while aiming.
  
  
  CoD4 Vs. BF2/2142:
  When it comes to CoD4 Vs. BF2/2142, it depends on what you're looking for 
 in a FPS. Both games feel like they handle exactly alike (and I've played both extensively) , but 
 they have different concepts. They have the same tools, but they build entirely different structures, 
 so to speak. If you want mindless fragging and mayhem, then go for CoD4. If you want a FPS that 
 makes you think in regards to tactics and strategy with more dynamic gameplay and deeper game mechanics, 
 then get BF2/2142. I have both games, and they complement eachother very well.
  
  
  Conclusion:
  Although the game has very nice graphics and is a good FPS, it's obviously riding 
 on the success of the series and is receiving considerable amounts of hype. Also, it feels like 
 it was designed for consoles in mind with its small but very detailed maps. If it weren't for the 
 success of the series, CoD4 would've most definitely been regarded as a sub-standard FPS. Overall, 
 I would absolutely say that it's the best shooter on the consoles right now, but on the PC, there's 
 better out there.... ; ) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Robsonbmw
Rating: 7
Date: Apr 15, 2008 6:05 am PT
Review:  I played the game, I beat it and... that was it. Another game in my collection, another scalp taken 
 but I won't give this game another try.
  I agree that the graphics are great. In fact those are much comparable to crysis yet somehow different. Nevertheless 
 the graphics are top quality. The music isn't something I will remember for a long time. Just another 
 fast paced FPPS music.
  The thing that irritated me the most was the gameplay itself. Yes, the weapons are nice and there's 
 pretty much to chose from. I agree that the sniper mission is one of the best I have ever played 
 in any FPPS game but I just don't like beign transported through an entire level with this unpleasant 
 feeling that whatever I achieved it wasn't because I was so good but the game itself is making 
 it so easy. This game isn't putting any pressure on the player to think about how to beat the game 
 or how to finish the level. All you need to do is follow your teammates. You don't need to be precise 
 while shooting because your teammates are gonna do your job for you. During most of my game I felt 
 more like a visitor or like some kind of spectator because it didn't matter what I did I was always 
 gonna beat the map or even worse, I didn't have this feeling that I passed the map thanks to my 
 abillities.
  
  The game is really straightforward and if it wasn't for the great graphics ( which in my opinion 
 managed to sell this game) I would recommend this game only to the greatest of fans of the genre 
 and for the multiplayer which is one of the best in any game that is played online. There are other 
 games like Far Cry or Crysis or even Call of Duty 2 which are much better and offer much more fun.
 
  
  definitely overrated.
  
  
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Blaiyze1
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 15, 2008 5:22 am PT
Review:  This game is so good it just is not funny the most amazing first person shooter that got basically 
 everything right. Activision managed to pull this game out of nowhere not that long after call 
 of duty 3 came. The fact is the fact that they produced the game in about 2 years is amazing and 
 only problem with that is the extremely short single player mode and some problems with textures 
 close up. They put an arcade mode into the game but that still only leaves you to play the 6 hour 
 game over another 2 times or so. It is the multiplayer that really has me addicted, it is just 
 so quick to pull a game and 12 players out of nowhere in a matter of seconds. Only problem with 
 it is that it picks a room for you and if your unhappy with anything in it you have to quit another 
 3 times for it to clarify that u dont want to play here! and even sometimes it might take a while 
 to actually find a game when it would be so much easier for you yourself to place yourself in the 
 lobby of your choice. I would actually reduce the rating i gave this game to about 8 because the 
 multi player after some updates has become almost unbare-able because of glitches and spawning 
 problems. But if you newly buy the game you will grow up playing it with these problems and it 
 should be fine. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Di0nysus80
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 14, 2008 9:08 pm PT
Review:  Great game! One of the most intense and visually stunning FPS games I've ever played. On the same 
 par if not better than Bioshock. Kept me on the edge of my seat the entire time. Difficult in parts, 
 on certain settings, but not enough to really frustrate me. Storyline is short, but very provacative 
 and believable (in the sense that perhaps something like this could happen) . AI is insanely smart 
 and makes you think hard before just entering into a room and blasting away (I tried this strategy 
 a few times only to end up dead) , you really need to use the environment as cover. The entire sniper 
 sequence in the game had my adrenaline pumping and my reflexes tested, I don't think I blinked 
 the entire time. This game is a must have for any FPS fan and if you are new to the genre this 
 one will set the bar very high for future releases. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thenewau25
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 15, 2008 1:31 pm PT
Review:  Amazing game amazing story lots of gins easy to use that DO casue damage nice story amazing sound 
 great ai that doesnt move stupidly takes mises and does getting killed by bulllets and DO take 
 cover and crazy multipalyer and the sound is amazing, lol its twice amazing sound! and now the 
 bad points too many, too many, too many enemies in one room sweet jesus i guess thats what cod 
 does in every game if you get lag try to switch on the mouse smoothing now the annoying thing is 
 the levels are small too many anemies not cool an the way too many enemies makes the game feel 
 uncontrolable, some times get confused and thats why it oens score that hey also the campaign is 
 pretty short however the game is good to be played once then its amazing but again youll see flaws 
 the game is pretty linear but not always, some levels are annoying eg the guard with flashlight 
 when you save nikolai or the steams in firefight in the first mission that you dont know where 
 to shoot or where to take cover or the tv station crazy shootout and the amazing bullet penatrition, 
 haha thats what crysis lacks and another thing unlike crysis if you shoot someone he will die why 
 ? because the armor head shot thing is for noobies eg
  
  IN CRYSIS IF YOU SHOOT AN ENEMY WHILE MOVES TO THE LEG HE WILL NOT FALL DOWN BUT IN COD4 WILL ITS 
 CALLED REALISM AND NO FAKE ARMOR CRAP!
  
  i really dont like non linear stuff unlees we talking about big stuff like oblivion and bioshock 
 and not like stalker and crysis but moha is more non linear!
  
  now back to the annoyinece the levels in chernobyl are vital to the story but evading the patrols, 
 jesus i spent an hour on this and grab each freaking dog or that alone dog and if you kill it it 
 brings an army or carrying this mc millan while the suit you or hows everything turn like a tottal 
 shooting mess or vehicles explodeor the damn pilot you gotta get out in iraq or the mess in them 
 mission after chernobyl is a mess (and dont tell me that this mission during night is not non linear) 
 and all the hits you get till then kill the idea!
  
  SO 
  COD4 is a game that relies more in fast gameplay and relies more in story and aracde if you are 
 good enough and the whole game is a tutorial for the multipalyer war (because its everythin everyone 
 wanted morden guns in iraq)
  
  if you like crysis you wont like it if you dont you will! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: _EXCON_
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 13, 2008 11:29 am PT
Review:  After 3 COD games set in World War 2, us fans were looking for a change. COD4 gives us that, taking 
 you to the packed streets of war-torn Middle Eastern towns, desolate, radioactive cities near Chernobyl, 
 to the Russian countryside. 
  In the campaign, you'll play as a member of the British and American army, in a wide variety of 
 missions. These include storming buildings, exploring TV stations, rescuing a hostage in an aeroplane, 
 and assasinating an enemy leader with a high-powered sniper rifle. The story is well-presented, 
 and quite engrossing at times, but it's hardly one of the game's best features. 
  The graphics are stunningly realistic, from the landscapes to the explosions, to the buildings. 
 All of the levels and multiplayer maps look flawless, and completely appropriate for each setting.
 
  You use a variety of guns, which you can pick up from dead enemies. There are different grenades, 
 including flash grenades, which you'll employ to help you take out your enemies. In the missions, 
 there are 30 pieces of intelligence for you to acquire, which will unlock certain cheats, such 
 as slow-motion and alternate colour schemes.
  But for all the quality of the single player, it is a little too short. There is also an arcade 
 mode, with a points system, if you want a bit more action and replayability value. 
  But the best part, without a doubt, is the multiplayer. Yes, the hype is justified. Building on 
 the success of the COD2 multiplayer, you can play on a variety of maps, in different types of missions.
 
  As you gain more kills, complete challenges and the like, you will gain points towards "levelling-up". 
 As you level-up, you will unlock new guns, add-ons, perks (such as increased health or bullet damage) , 
 challenges for you to complete, and camouflages. Then, you'll use these to create your own custom 
 class, with every aspect personalised. You can, in effect, create the perfect class for your playing 
 style. The levelling system gives you more of a sense that you're "fighting towards something", 
 and adding to the addictive nature of the multiplayer. 
  In the multiplayer, as you gain kill-streaks, you will be able to call in UAV scans, airstrikes 
 and helicopters to annihilate your enemies. 
  One qualm I have with the multiplayer is grenade-spamming. Now, there are also random flash-bangs 
 flying around, and at times it can really get on your nerves. Flash grenades are meant to be used 
 tactically! But it's a small price for such an amazing experience.
  A must-buy shooter, especially for the multiplayer, with great graphics to match. Take it from 
 me - this rocks. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: norton158
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 13, 2008 9:51 am PT
Review:  This is a very good game. It's by far one of the best available today. I don't understand what 
 could be bad. If you're a simple casual player like me, then you won't find any faults available 
 on it. Since nothing can be perfect, I give it a 9.5 due to hardware limitations, bugs and all 
 of the kind (although I found nothing. Wonder why g. spot gave it 9 "only") .
  
  Playability goes well. It follows the default of all COD series, so you won't have much new to 
 learn here. The textures, it makes you really feel in the orient, mediterran and all parts that 
 the soldier character is needed to go (also you play the role of more than one character, into 
 situations that are relationed to each-other) . The introduction is also great, you see what the 
 president of a mediterran country being disposed of it's cargo, on his own eyes. Kudos.
  
  Sound also great, the weaponry goes by far as satisfactory/complete and it really immerses you 
 into the game, so that's something people shouldn't miss, specially if they like multiplayer which 
 is one of the strong factors into this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ultihunter
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 13, 2008 8:44 am PT
Review:  this game really fun to play and is a good thriller to play! lots od wepons to choose from but 
 i use all the weapons. what sucks is thatt you dont have a life bar but thats not the important 
 part. i have three things to tell you. buy it, play it, love it. i love plain this game but it gets 
 boring. no games cant last fun forever but this game will keep you entertained for at least 3-5 
 hours a day. so 1 more thing. WHAT ARE YOU WAINING FOR GO PLAY IT! NOW!!! if you dont play then you 
 will never experience real gaming. seriousley. oh right i almost forgot. this game has 5 classes 
 on multiplayer the more you lvl up the more classes you can create is really awseome. but what sucks 
 is you die to easily. let me tell you something. online multiplayer is not a place for noobs. you 
 just keep dying. well other than the little health you get this game is good. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shre123
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 13, 2008 8:38 am PT
Review:  To cut it straight to the point, Call of Duty 4 (COD 4) is one of the best games I have ever played. 
 And to be quite honest I am not a huge fan nor am I skilled at most First person shooters. However, 
 COD 4 delivers an experience unparalleled by any other game in its genre. The single player campaign, 
 despite its short length, delivers a wealthy experience in both game play and story. I am surprised 
 again and again on how much depth this game has. Sometimes it leaves you breathless just to take 
 in the visuals and other times it leaves you standing up while you try to take of the head of an 
 unwary foe. It seems to me that most games these days have lost sight of intense game play and 
 what the players necessarily want and instead focus on graphics and the drive to create the most 
 creative game engine of all time. In COD 4 however, it seems as if the developers of infinity ward 
 were 16 year olds hard at work in making the best gaming experience they could possible give. Now, 
 onto the most wonderful thing about this game, its multi-player. If you do not have Xbox live, 
 don't bother buying this game. Without it, its like buying a computer with no hard drive, it just 
 isn't worth it. Because this is best game to play online period. The constant push for you to do 
 better by the use of an innovative leveling system, unlock-able game modes and weapons and extremely 
 fun use of chain kills gives this game its true character. Just so u can get an idea of the rating 
 for this game:
  
  Gameplay: 10/10
  Single Player: 9/10
  Multiplayer:11/10
  Graphics: 9.5/10
  Value: 10/10
  Overall: 10/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: commandok
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 13, 2008 2:18 am PT
Review:  When i heard Call of Duty 4 was in the making i first thought oh no another WW2 shooter, but no 
 this time for its fourth run it is Modern Warfare and this game is great, the single player campaign 
 is only bout 5-7 hours long for average gamers and for hardcore gamers around 3-4 hours. The single 
 Player is eye candy and WOW!
  I did not care how long it took me to clock this game cause how it looks and how it plays, and 
 for the first time your allies are not just there to stand still take actually fight and can die. 
 This game will make you feel like your right in the middle of the war that is going on right now 
 in the middleast and it will make you feel like a spec op when you playing the SAS.
  The single player is 10/10
  But now the thing that made this game the world best first person 
 shooter is multiplayer on the PS3, 360, PC there is not a single FPS that can beat this except 
 for maybe Call of duty 5, even counter strike the game that rules the multiplayer FPS world, Call 
 of duty 4 has passed it without any problems.
  The multiplayer is great and massive there are over 20 maps and 4 new ones have been out to download. 
 There are 5 modes Team Deathmatch, Free for all, 
  Sabotage ( One team has to plant the bomb while the other team has to defend/defuse) Search and 
 Destroy ( same as Sabotage but no respawns, one life, making it a skill match instead of guns blazing) 
 Headquarters ( Capture bases) also you can play anyone mode in Hardcore mode if the server is like 
 that, i only play on hardcore servers, it removes ur hud, map cross hair and make guns deal more 
 damage ( so it more realistic) and once you get used to hardcore mode you will realise that the 
 hud, map and other things are useless and hardcore is far more realistic.
  The two modes that will be most popular will probably be favorite would be team deathmatch and 
 search and destroy
  Multiplayer is 10/10
  and why are you not buying this game stop reading the review GO BUY BUY
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Razrak
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 11, 2008 6:21 pm PT
Review:  The eye candy doesn't compare to Crysis. Gameplay does though! In my opinion gameplay should take 
 priority over eye candy. Call of Duty 4 excels at gameplay. The single player game is fun and challenging. 
 The single player is fantastic. Never stale and always exciting. I would recommend this game as 
 the best FPS of the year. My favorite level is where you are in a gunship plane. There are cannons 
 on the plane and you rain down hell. It takes place in the middle east. The mulitplayer is fantastic 
 too. It's addicting trying to get all the levels and achievments. You can create your own class 
 through customization. The single player is woefully short. That is the only thing bad you can 
 say. It does have a decent replay value. The graphics are good but not on the best on the market 
 (Crysis) . The learning curve is about right if you have playing First Person Shooters before. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kueller00
Rating: 6.5
Date: Apr 11, 2008 4:58 pm PT
Review:  First of all, it's important to point out that I've played all pc-released Call of Duty games for 
 more than a 100 hours each. These games have been a very big part of my gaming history and I've 
 had some of my best gaming memories while shooting Germans or Americans in multi-player. However, CoD4 
 has managed to let me down. 
  
  Before I get flamed, I want to delve deeper into what makes me say this. First of all, the single 
 player campaign is awesome. It pulls you in, it's a wild ride, it's a rush, it's all you could 
 want from a multi-million hollywood blockbuster, plus, you get to play out all the major setpieces 
 yourself. However, unlike many gamers out there I don't usually buy a FPS game for the great single-player 
 experience. 
  
  The multiplayer is, for me, lacking. I've spent years enjoying pinpoint accuracy with my rifles, 
 but, of course, in a game that sports mostly automatic rifles, that's only a pleasant memory now. 
 (M14 is the exception) So, I myself hardly manage to kill anyone. This, in itself, is mostly my 
 fault, but there's more to my dislike than personal frustration. Of course, there's also the thing 
 that it takes 2 point blank shots in the face to kill someone with most weapons (not counting the 
 juggernaut perk or hard core in this statement)
  
  First off, there is A LOT of hardcore servers out there. HC servers are servers with augmented 
 damage output for the weapons and they lack the display of the minimap (unless you call in a recon 
 tool which you earn with 3 consecutive kills) This is in itself doesn't sound to bad. I myself 
 quite liked hardcore at first, seeing as it helped me sharpen my reflexes. However, bullets kill 
 _too_ quickly in some cases. A bullet to my big toe wouldn't kill me in real life. In fact, in 
 a combat environment where I'm pumped full of adrenaline, I doubt I'd pay attention to it much. 
 
  
  Noticing this, along with the absence of a way of finding out your enemies (map) a lot of players 
 have adopted a rather lame way of playing hardcore. Most people I run into nowadays start spraying 
 before they reach a doorway, then continue spraying while walking in, effectively killing everyone 
 in the room. This is not so much a matter of tactics, as they do this even when no one is anywhere 
 near them. of course, with this kind of play it just turns into who gets the lucky hit first, depriving 
 the game of any kind of skill, merit or fun, to be honest. 
  
  Another problem with the community is that the so called challenges in the game mess up much of 
 the fun. There's 3 kinds of people in the game: You have those who don't care about the challenges 
 and just play. You have those who semi-actively pursue them while playing normal matches, and then 
 you have the people who log onto servers in duo's and trio's, just to complete a challenge, thus 
 taking any sense of achievement away from the people who try to do the challenges "legit". It's 
 a silly detail, but it takes away a lot from the experience, especially when you read some of the 
 more impossible (but so cool) challenges in the game. 
  
  When all is said and done, this game has a very nice finish, and if anyone only wants singleplayer 
 gameplay, this game is so good it's ridiculous, but the multiplayer experience isn't all it is 
 cracked up to be, and in my opinion it should die of shame when held up to it's predecessors. 
 
  
  P. S: I have quite a few friends who really enjoy this game, but if you feel you would be annoyed 
 by the things I've just mentioned, I wouldn't bother with it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: WonderBread88
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 10, 2008 10:27 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay/Interface: 9.5/10
  - For a very indepth and detailed story, it was relatively short but yet seemed to include so much. 
 Gameplay is really unbeatable by any other current modern-day war FPS. Their are multiple types 
 of multiplayer modes which really offers anything you could want or expect from an online FPS. 
 Great selection of guns in both single and multiplayer mode. Single player is quite fun but for 
 this one mutliplayer is where all of the action and fun is at. With ranking and unlockable weapons, 
 feats, and add-ons this makes the multiplayer extremely fun and addicting. Weapons are evenly made 
 and all have their benefits and their flaws. Only straigt flaw that I have found is with the ACOG 
 scope, its not quite as good at the red-dot sight. 
  
  Environment & Immersion: 9.5/10
  - Environments are probably some of the most detailed and eye-candy rich that I've yet to see. 
 Both single player and multiplayer maps are of fantastic quality. All multiplayer maps are pulled 
 from single player. With the graphics, gameplay, and realistic physics and action, this game is 
 probably one of the most immersive FPS games to date. 
  
  Graphics/Physics: 10/10
  - I'll be honest, I was more visually stunned and excited while playing this game for the first 
 time than I was with Crysis. I would have to say physics-wise, my favorite part is the material 
 factor. By this I mean you can shoot through certain materials, depending on what gun, and other 
 materials you can't. I really couldn't of asked for much more other than fully collapsable enviornment, 
 but with that multiplayer would fail to even be entertaining or challanging. Textures, Shadowing 
 and lighting are all visually stunning and more than meeted my expectations. RPG rockets maybe 
 a total let down, but the smoke trail that it leaves behind is the most realistic I've ever seen.
 
  
  Sound: 9.5/10
  - The voices in single player add quite a lot of humor, expecially the british leader. Explosions 
 and gun shots are very realistic. Can't complain about any sound that I've heard in this game.
 
  
  Bugs, Stability & Performance: 9/10
  - The only reason this part didn't get a 10 is because of Punk Buster. Yes, Punk Buster is necessary 
 but it is the only reason that I've ever had any crashes or disconnection. Punk Buster needs some 
 fine tuning in the debugging department.
  
  Replay value: 10/10
  - I bought this game when It came out, I've yet to uninstall it and I don't think I will for a 
 very long time. I've played through single player twice and I just can't get enough of online play. 
 This game is also great for lan parties.
  
  Value for money: 10/10
  - I honestly would have probably paid more for it.
  
  Will this game be remembered by old school 
 gamers as a classic after 10 years?:
  - Oh most definately. Before this game was released I kept hearing people say that they weren't 
 expecting much out of it or that they figured it would be a total let down and of course I disagreed. 
 Lets just say I told you so. 
  
  Who would I recommend to buy the game?:
  - Anyone who likes FPS and expecially those who like Modern Day FPS. Heck if you have never played 
 a FPS style game, this is a good place to start.
  
  -----------------------------------------------
  
  Overall: 9.5 - What can't I say about this 
 game. Both visual and online play are stunningly addictive and fun! If you haven't played this 
 game, you really ought to try it out. Don't bother downloading this one, the developers deserve 
 your money for making it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Worf101
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 8, 2008 8:53 am PT
Review:  I come to this game rather late. I fell in love with COD2 and spent years playing and replaying 
 it on "Veteran" level. I knew the missions, the weapons and felt comfortable skragging the Nazis. 
 Like many, I didn't follow COD3 to the console. When CoD4 was announced and I learned it would 
 be a "modern" game I was initially dissappointed. I felt that there were many, many stories left 
 to tell in WWII. Eventually though I picked up CoD4 but left it on my shelf for quite some time. 
 Now after all these months I'm finally playing this game and boy am I happy I am. 
  
  Installation and Setup:
  Installation was a snap. I bought the Special Edition and the single 
 DVD loaded quick and easy. Much easier than the 6 CD's required for CoD2. Set up was also trouble 
 free as all my options were available in the menus.
  
  Sound:
  Sound is the only vportion of this game that dissappoints. I have the volume cranked and while 
 the explosions are fine, the command voices are either muted or don't want to track from the various 
 speaker. s. I'm trully confused. The rest of the effects, weapons and explosions and alike are "alright" 
 but nothing special.
  
  Graphics: 
  The visuals in the game are stunning. Nothing less that amazing. Probably not up to the level of 
 "Cysis" but I can play this game on my mid -level rig and see everything quite well. I dig the 
 look of this game. 
  
  Gameplay:
  If you've played any FPS before, particularly in the CoD series, then you know the dealio here. 
 I must admit I like the addition of sprint and grenade cook off. The levels can be a bit short 
 but the variation is such that you don't really notice the shortness of the game while you're playing 
 it.
  
  Final score:
  9.0 - The Dev team took a good game and made it a great game and brought us into the 21st Century 
 to boot. Enjoyable as all get out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hardboiled15
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 9, 2008 11:49 pm PT
Review:  This game is so awesome the quality is awesome. The graphics is awesome and play well on a mid range 
 rig. The sound is awesome. The controls are awesome. Singelplayer is short but AWESOME. Multiplayer 
 is the best ever if you ask me so yea its AWESOME.
  
  
  There is alot of different gamemodes online like Team Deathmatch, Search & Destroy, Free For  
 all of them is alot of fun my favorite is Search & Destroy because of its counter strike styled 
 tactic gameplay. BUY THIS GAME FFS MP KICKS ASS!
  
  
  And there also is a lvl system online so for every kill you gain XP and go up in lvl thats how 
 you obtain new weapons and perks. Perks are what the player can use on his character to better fit 
 his style of gameplay. For an example a sniper should have Deeph Breath that makes him hold his 
 breath longer to steady his sniper aim. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BrokenRemains
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 9, 2008 4:42 pm PT
Review:  This game is wicked sweet. it really couldn't be any better. i have spent hours playing this game 
 on the pc and x box. its definitely better on pc. theres more people, better maps, easier to find 
 the map i want and sniping is alot easier. its the best call of duty game there is except for call 
 of duty 3, its campaign was better but call of duty4 has better online play. being able to customize 
 the weapon classes is one of the things that makes call of duty 4 one of the best games (multilayer) . 
 omg why does the review have to be so long i hate having to write 800 characters its sooooooo lame. 
 i don't want to waste 3 hours thinking about things i could say about COD4. the graphics are really 
 good. and its really fun. shooting people through walls is fun. and the achievements are kool. 
 yes i meant to spell "cool" with a "k". there i think i have enough words now. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: VsemPizdetz
Rating: 7.5
Date: Apr 9, 2008 4:32 pm PT
Review:  The game is built on pros and cons but somehow the pros are in the minority. The game feels unrealistic 
 and much more dramatized than what would be in real life. For example, the fact that the player 
 "heals" automatically after getting hit is ridiculous. The unlockable perks and upgrades to weapons 
 is as well. What I find repulsive is that both teams can posses the same weapons... which disables 
 the unique of a certain team unlike Battlefield 2 or Counter Strike. The upgrades and perks make 
 it feel you are a hitman instead of an ordinary combat soldier. After all, in war, all you get 
 is an old gun with no customizations. The perks are hilariously insane. The ability to run faster? 
 The ability to aim better? The ability to pistol someone after getting hit? I find this disgusting. 
 The producers could have simply added more weapons, no perks and more realistic features and environments. 
 Cod4 is too firey and blazy... just shoot and run and die and spawn and all over again. Nothing 
 unique. Sorry about the inconvience. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Pahvilaatikko
Rating: 7
Date: Apr 9, 2008 2:23 pm PT
Review:  Your eyes get marinated in honey when you load this one in your machine. Pretty landscape, nice 
 textures and stuff. Sadly but true, the core is nothing new. It's a shooter like millions of other 
 shooters. You get a weapon in your hand that you use pumping tons of lead in to baddies and save 
 the world. Nothing new really. Of course new technology brings new stuff in other ways then purely 
 graphically. AI works pretty good and they try to flank and use cover and react to your frags. 
 You also got your teammates so you basically you aren't Ramboing. 
  
  So in the end of the day this just an old game with new clothes on. Devs stated that they are after 
 immersion and partly they manage to do it. Terrain is awesome and there's very good moments, sadly 
 the immersion brakes badly when crowd of baddies rush towards you and there's no way you can avoid 
 getting hit at all and when you get hit you dust of and smoke them. Bleh. And sp is very short, 
 in my opinion. I played it through in about three evenings (hardened setting) .
  
  Multiplayer has very good ideas. You gain levels and can unlock customisable weapons and abilities 
 so it's taken a bit further then BF2. Maps are abit small and very CQB mostly. Sadly to me the 
 game play is the same old stuff: run gunning, frag spamming, bunny/dolphing jumping, funny guns 
 and movement, strafing and uberl33ts wit skillzz. And on the top of all PB fails to keep the hackers 
 out (check youtube cod4 hacks for example) . 
  
  Could be awesome but now just average for gamer that looks more depth in game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 4blizzard
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 7, 2008 11:03 am PT
Review:  I'll get to the point. This game is fast paced, heart pounding action. When you play the short 
 story mode you never know what's going to happen next. The enemy AI isn't stupid either. One second 
 they'll shoot at you from a spot (while your taking cover) they will move to another spot and shoot 
 at you. Not to mention they will CHASE YOU DOWN.
  
  The cinematics are just excellent, the guns (though not many in single player. But plenty in multiplayer) 
 are ok, YOUR TEAMMATES ACTUALLY SHOOT BACK AND TAKE COVER and you get to experience the more darker, 
 chaotic & realistic side of combat. 
  
  Now in multiplayer I'm not going to talk much about because it's perfect. All I can say is all 
 the action single player gives.. the multiplayer is 20 times more intense. 
  
  Go get this game.. you won't regret it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jam-gaming
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 6, 2008 5:36 pm PT
Review:  I got the game 4 days ago, finished the singleplayer campaign, now playing multiplayer. My Score 
 10/10
  
  ----------
  Singleplayer
  ---
  A bit short, but very good, since clearly it isn't the main point of the game, it's very amazing"
 
  ---
  10/10
  ----------
  Multiplayer
  ---
  Highly Addictive is the best description to the multiplayer mode of CoD4, huge number of Mods and 
 Custom maps added to the amazing game modes, worth the grade
  ---
  10/10
  ----------
  Game play
  ---
  Just perfect, really flexible game play, but with one huge flaw, the "Prone 
 Blocked" thing, not the fct that it blocks us, but one time, it randomly turned my body 180, in 
 a sniper Mod server. I got killed right after...
  ---
  9/10
  ----------
  Graphics
  ---
  No way to describe the perfectness of the graphics, every model, so well modeled (xD) , amazing 
 textures... No more words for that... It's the "play and understand" kind of thing, you know?
 
  ---
  10/10 (11/10 if possible)
  ----------
  Overview
  ---
  Awesome game, really wowed me, when I purchased the game, I was expecting something that would 
 be awesome, but it is much more!
  ---
  9.75/10 since it's awesome lets round up, 10/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KOoI
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 5, 2008 8:23 am PT
Review:  This game is the greatest shooter to date.
  I feel completely confident saying that because it has everything that makes a great shooter. From 
 its amazingly written single player campaign (which is a waste of time to replay) . The single player 
 makes you genuinely care for the characters and is the best rendition of the "OMG evil commies/Muslim 
 terrorists" to date. It is great because it doesn't just portray the terrorists as a stereotype. 
 Instead it gives them motivation and some reason to do what they're doing, be it revenge or patriotism.
 
  The online of this game though is the best ever made in any shooter. All the modes are extremely 
 fun and competitive. But on top of that there are two extra modes called normal and hardcore. IN 
 hardcore the game becomes more real, and for me more fun. This game IS more fun to play on line 
 and CS or any other game out there at this point in time.
  The only bad thing i can find about the game is that the higher level players can have an advantage 
 over a level 1 player because the higher level player has better perks (like dead silent) . The 
 other bad thing about this game online is that the grenade launcher is used by n00bs way to much 
 to get random ass kills that take no skill. Finally one can bullet dodge a bit even in Hardcore 
 mode.
  Overall Score: 9.8 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ravage19
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 5, 2008 7:26 am PT
Review:  The single-player campaign is over in a flash, but the high quality of that campaign and its terrific 
 multiplayer options make Call of Duty 4 a fantastic package.
  
  It took awhile, but Infinity Ward finally got the message that World War II is played out. With 
 modern times and international affairs becoming more and more, shall we say, interesting in recent 
 years, the 1940s just don't carry as much weight as they used to. Perhaps that's why Call of Duty 
 4 has a new subtitle, Modern Warfare. By bringing things into a fictionalized story that still 
 seems fairly plausible, the developer has made a much heavier game. But COD 4 is more than just 
 an updated setting. It's also an amazing multiplayer first-person shooter and a great but brief 
 single-player campaign with the visual chops to make it a standout shooter in an era filled with 
 seemingly dozens of standout shooters. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Samslayer
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 5, 2008 7:01 am PT
Review:  This is a really good first person shooter. I haven't really gotten very deep into the single player 
 portion, but why when multiplayer is so much fun. I love the fact that Multiplayer has levels and 
 that you have to earn different weapons and perks. What is nice though, it matters only a little 
 if you are a private or 5-star general, if you are good at the game, weapons should only matter 
 a little. Obviously there are some advantages to being a higher level, different perks and add-ons 
 really do help in the long run. That brings me to one of my complaints, the perks, some just don't 
 need to be there in my opinion. The Martyrdom perk drops a grenade once you die to kill whoever 
 is around you. It is so frustrating to get a nice knife kill after tracking someone for a while, 
 to only get stuck in a corner and die because of the perk. I have had plenty of kill streaks ended, 
 that probably would not have stopped so soon if it was not for the perk. Oh well though, even though 
 I choose not to use it (I use last stand usually) , I guess since it is available to everyone I 
 can't complain. Last stand is a perk that allows you some extra life once you receive a kill shot, 
 that lets you use your pistol to try and shoot some of your enemies. I see this perk as a decent 
 idea, it takes skill, at least more than automatically dropping a g-nade. This is just a petty 
 complaint however, the game itself is very fun and worth getting. 
  
  If you like the FPS genre and need something new, get this you will be happy! I'm not sure about 
 the replay factor of the game, because I've noticed lately that I've been sort of getting bored. 
 Even with this the game has provided numerous hours of fun! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zxvb
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 4, 2008 8:39 pm PT
Review:  It seems like everyone who reviewed Call of Duty 4 has forgotten that a game called Call of Duty 
 2 existed. As someone whos played 100+ hours on both games, i cannot help but notice the similarities 
 despite the changing of eras. Some of the same sounds (plant sound, for example in search and destroy) , 
 same texturing, etc. Apparently they recycled many elements. Not that this is bad though, as CoD 
 2 was an excellent game and they improved on some of its flaws. Yes, the AI still sucks. Yes, its 
 still linear. But, that does not make it less of a shooter. I think CoD 2's single player campaign 
 was more "epic" at some points, but CoD 4's was better paced. The short length helped it in this 
 case as i felt like i played through just the right amount of action without it getting tedious.
 
  Multiplayer is excellent, but i think everyone who bought CoD 4 knew that (although it isnt BF 
 2) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: deathiemember
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 4, 2008 5:53 am PT
Review:  I enjoy the Call of Duty games even though Activision seems to wait for a good EA game to come 
 out to copy their idea. Finally the CoD games have implemented an upgrade system which works well; 
 complete achievements to gain weapon upgrades and "perks" for your character. Also CoD has finally 
 added a physics engine so your characters don't plop down in a prefabricated manner and objects 
 such as bricks or buckets can blow away from the force of an explosion. The sound is mostly good 
 despite the rehash of sound effects from previous CoD games. I don't buy games for single player 
 enjoyment so I haven't looked much at that aspect but the multiplayer is good fun. Overall I will 
 give this game an 8/10. Nothing much is new besides graphics but it's still an enjoyable multiplayer 
 game although it is no "deeper" than battlefield 2. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BlackSnathe
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 31, 2008 6:10 pm PT
Review:  Call of Duty 4- Modern Warfare has lived up to it's name and was a game that I didn't look forward 
 to but I am very glad i bought it. Some weapons may suckm i. e. M16, M21, and the G3. Everybody 
 says the storyline was short, maybe if go easy with cheats on, but I tend to stretch games out 
 on purpose to get the fullest out of them.
  But one major problem is the Multiplayer, Punkbuster sucks, banned for smallest things, and the 
 text on server named is WAAAAY to small, and there could be many more maps. Plus the ammo they 
 give you is inadequate for more than 5 kills. If you don't happen to have the same weapon as your 
 enemies your screwed over. Plus people abuse the same hiding spots and "bases" over and over again. 
 You can throw a couple grenades in a commonly used building... BAM you killed [CFRD] Turdsuker 
 The end... BUT IT STILL RULZEZ 
::::::

::::::
UserName: russian_takeout
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 31, 2008 4:34 pm PT
Review:  i will try to keep this short.
  basically, this game is probably the best looking out there. graphics are top of the line... and 
 you dont need a crazy system to run this game on high setings. at least my frind, run this game 
 with highest graphics with nvidia 7600, 1gb of ram, p4 2,800... with out any lag.
  i didnt have that much fun playing a game in a long time. not to mention, been playing online more 
 than 40 hours... something i never done before. basically you play longer, to get better weapons, 
 attachment for your weapon and different king of personal skills.
  to bad single player is way to short. i played it 3 times from start to finish, just to get satisfaction. 
 you can make it a bit longer, with hardest dificulty, but you loose fairness... AI gets to good... 
 at least for me. 
  i hope next COD wont go back to WW2. we got enough of that already.
  
  recomended for all.... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fiske
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 31, 2008 3:33 pm PT
Review:  graphics:
  amazing i mean they are perfect and i have an 05 pc
  
  capain:
  whay to short i beat it in 1 day but still the capain is great they are a lot of unexpected turns 
 mp: amazing you can rank up and unlock more things to customize you class to your likeing game 
 play: is great you can shoot though some types of walls ai is very smart but at sum tomes it gits 
 to hard normally it just right
  
  overall: well it has great game play and perfect ai but the capain is to short mp perfect amazing 
 just plane great
  
  bioshock may have won the game the year but the game of the yeah should have want to cod4 or halo 
 3 not some crapy bioshock rent it ferst dont buy it for the campain buy it because the mp is grate, 
 graphics amazing, and the ai perfect
  some people might say crap some people might say it is to good to be true i say it is perfect 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bangell99
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 29, 2008 12:56 pm PT
Review:  After 3 COD games set in World War 2, us fans were looking for a change. COD4 gives us that, taking 
 you to the packed streets of war-torn Middle Eastern towns, desolate, radioactive cities near Chernobyl, 
 to the Russian countryside. 
  In the campaign, you'll play as a member of the British and American army, in a wide variety of 
 missions. These include storming buildings, exploring TV stations, rescuing a hostage in an aeroplane, 
 and assasinating an enemy leader with a high-powered sniper rifle. The story is well-presented, 
 and quite engrossing at times, but it's hardly one of the game's best features. 
  The graphics are stunningly realistic, from the landscapes to the explosions, to the buildings. 
 All of the levels and multiplayer maps look flawless, and completely appropriate for each setting.
 
  You use a variety of guns, which you can pick up from dead enemies. There are different grenades, 
 including flash grenades, which you'll employ to help you take out your enemies. In the missions, 
 there are 30 pieces of intelligence for you to acquire, which will unlock certain cheats, such 
 as slow-motion and alternate colour schemes.
  The gameplay is basically the same, brilliant formula that COD has been dishing up for years; find 
 something to take cover behind, look down your sights and pick enemies off with your rifle. When 
 the fighting gets closer, take out your SMG and blast everyone in view. While it doesn't feature 
 a tank level like the previous games, you'll be able to support your allies with the full armament 
 of an AC-130 gunship, in an entire level dedicated to the task. Other than that, it's five hours 
 of good old-fashioned FPS fun, set in an engaging and intense atmosphere.
  But for all the quality of the single player, it is a little too short. There is also an arcade 
 mode, with a points system, if you want a bit more action and replayability value. 
  But the best part, without a doubt, is the multiplayer. Yes, the hype is justified. Building on 
 the success of the COD2 multiplayer, you can play on a variety of maps, in different types of missions.
 
  As you gain more kills, complete challenges and the like, you will gain points towards "levelling-up". 
 As you level-up, you will unlock new guns, add-ons, perks (such as increased health or bullet damage) , 
 challenges for you to complete, and camouflages. Then, you'll use these to create your own custom 
 class, with every aspect personalised. You can, in effect, create the perfect class for your playing 
 style. The levelling system gives you more of a sense that you're "fighting towards something", 
 and adding to the addictive nature of the multiplayer. 
  In the multiplayer, as you gain kill-streaks, you will be able to call in UAV scans, airstrikes 
 and helicopters to annihilate your enemies. 
  One qualm I have with the multiplayer is grenade-spamming. Now, there are also random flash-bangs 
 flying around, and at times it can really get on your nerves. Flash grenades are meant to be used 
 tactically! But it's a small price for such an amazing experience.
  A must-buy shooter, especially for the multiplayer, with great graphics to match. Take it from 
 me - this rocks. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lostantix
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 30, 2008 12:29 am PT
Review:  Call of Duty 4 is a welcome addition to the CoD franchise. I don't think there is anything to say 
 about this game that hasn't been said already, so instead of a full review, I'll just write a brief 
 overview of my experiences with CoD4.
  
  The leveling system is what draws you in, and for many people, keeps them playing CoD4 for as long 
 as they do. Hopefully they'll increase the level cap (at the time of writing it's at 55) and add 
 more maps.
  
  Hackers/Cheaters aren't that big off a problem. I've only come across a few while playing and they 
 were just vote/booted out of the game.
  
  Good choice of guns available to you. I like the addition of perks (longer breathe hold for sniping, 
 longer running time, UAV jammer etc.) . I think it makes for more interesting gameplay and allows 
 players to develop personal styles of gameplay.
  
  All in all, one of the better shooters I've ever played. Definately a recommended purchase. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GameGenerator
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 28, 2008 2:58 pm PT
Review:  Call of Duty 4 is an original, entertaining masterpiece that can be only described as an instant 
 classic.
  
  CoD 1 was a excellent game, CoD 2 was even better. On the other hand, CoD 3 was a bit of a disappointment. 
 It was still in WW2, it wasn't released on PC, and it wasnt original and it had the same multiplayer 
 as CoD 2. 
  
  Call of Duty 4 brought a higly original, balanced, deep and entertaining multiplayer and it is the 
 best in the series so far.
  
  Beyond the awesome multiplayer, there is a suprisingly entertaining single player with great action 
 and story. You play the role of Soap McTavish, a S. A. S soldier.
  
  You, along with Captain Price, Gaz and the U. S. M. C must stop OpFor and Spetsnaz from launching the 
 nuclear missiles .There are parts where you play as Sgt. Paul Jackson, a U. S. M. C marine, but you 
 play as him for a brief time for some reasons (im not gonna spoil that to you)
  
  Multiplayer is higly entertaining and deep. At first, you start with a few clases, but after you gain 
 a few ranks, you will be introduced to the Create a Class system, where you can set your own weapons 
 and perks.
  
  You unlock more powerfull weapons, perks and gadgets by achieving ranks. You achieve ranks buy scoring 
 a lot of XP, which you get by killing enemies and completing various challenges.
  
  Overall, the multiplayer is amazing
  
  Graphically, the game is awesome. Character models are 
 extremely detailed, and texture work is breathtaking. Explosions look very good, and the animations 
 are almost flawless. Maybe it is not as tehnicaly amazing as some shooters, but it is still awesome
 
  
  Sound is absolutely stuning. The sound effects are perfect in every way. The SFX of gunshots, explosions 
 really generate the atmospehere and they never glitch. Voice acting is very nice with no flaws. Soundtrack 
 is excellent, somehow inspireing. In other word, the sound is flawless
  
  The suprisingly-good single player is very brief ,but the multiplayer will keep you playing non-stop 
 until you reach rank 55, complete all challenges, unlock all weapons, gadgets and perks. Even if you 
 do this all, you will still come back for more
  
  Call of Duty is one of the best shooters to date in a long time. It is one of the deepest, most photorealistic 
 shooters ever created, and an unforgettable experience among games
  
  Gameplay : 9
  
  Graphics : 9
  
  Sound : 10 Overall : 9.3
  
  Value : 8
  
  Tilt :10
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Joker12121
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 28, 2008 9:50 am PT
Review:  Call of Duty 4: Modern Warfare is the best fps game I've ever played. The graphics and sound quality 
 are excellent. The game play is smooth, the challenges and ranks add an additional challenge to 
 a superb game. I've spent the vast majority of my time since purchasing it on that game alone. 
 I haven't played anything else because it is THAT good. Customizing your own classes is an excellent 
 feature that allows just about anyone to play in a way that suits their style. Hands down, this 
 is one of the best games I have ever played in my entire life.
  The amount of strategy and the life like appearence of this game are amazing. Being able to shoot 
 through wall can be cumbersome sometimes, but its always a warm and welcome feeling when you've 
 shot someone through the wall on pure luck. I really liked what Infinity Ward did with this game 
 and I can't wait to play the next game these guys put on the market. 
  I have not seen a better FPS in years. I would go as far to say that this game is better than the 
 entire Halo series. Its an incredible game. I highly recommend this game for anyone, avid FPSers 
 or new FPSers. You can't go wrong with Call of Duty 4.
  Hope everyone else enjoys it as much as I do. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BoxOfPocky
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 27, 2008 2:00 pm PT
Review:  I am a fan of the Call of Duty series, owning almost all the games and expansions (excluding the 
 console ones) . In any case, Call of Duty 4: Modern Warfare takes all that was good in the old games 
 and took it to a whole new level. What does that mean for players like you...? It means get it, 
 and be prepared to have a blast PWNING or get PWNED in an almost perfect if not perfect FPS.
  
  The Goods
  + Graphics: It is beautiful. The realistic character models, environments, shadows, 
 reflections, and everything else. Get a good computer and crank up the detail levels and enjoy. 
 
  + The Story: Alright, I'm not the type to play FPS for the story, seriously now. What I want is 
 to go online and get first place and show off, but honestly, take a moment and enjoy the single 
 player mode. You will not regret it. The storyline and how it develops are truly engrossing.
  + Gameplay: I cannot boast enough about how close to perfect the gameplay is for this game. They 
 improved the game by allowing a level-up system and unlockables. As you play, you level up based 
 on how well you perform (better you play faster you level) . It maxs out at lvl55 which you can 
 probably do in one to two days, also meaning you'll unlock everything (excluding the golden guns) . 
 Then there's also the implement of UAV, Airstrike, and Helicopter. When you go on a killstreak, 
 you get rewarded: 3 kills (UAV which shows your enemies' position as little red dots) , 5 kills 
 (Airstrike which drops 3 waves of bombs on your enemies based on where you choose to attack) , and 
 7 kills (summon a helicopter that attacks any enemies until its time runs out or get shot down) . 
 
  + Challenges: The challenges, some easily accomplished and some not, provide you with a purpose 
 to continue and enjoy the game after you get your lvl55 and all your unlockables.
  + Knife: Okay... it's just my personal like. Nothing is more satisfying than humiliating your enemy 
 by knifing him.
  
  The Bad
  - What are the bads... hmmm.... uh..... NONE! I do not have anything to complain about this game 
 except for I wish I could get more, lol. 
  
  CoD4: Modern Warfare... absolutely recommended. Get it and enjoy... btw... get your friends also. 
 Nothing is more fun than humiliating them and calling them noobs, lol. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: youcantseeme01
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 27, 2008 5:01 am PT
Review:  Here are some of the reasons of why cod 4 is so funnnnn online.
  
  1. grapics, ooo man have you seen them there freakin sweet. Its dosent matter
  what you look 
 at it looks perfect.
  
  2. sound, the sounds pretty sweet asswell, you can hear from gunshots to footsteps.
  
  3. the 
 amount of funny stuff that happen online on cod4 is unbelievable. Right through from shooting someone 
 using a granade launcher, at close range the shell dosent explode but lodges into them whiich auto 
 kills them, and shooting someone and they die in an arkward position, stabbing people in the back 
 (with a knife of coarse0 who coulsnt forget tea bagging.
  
  4. And last but not least, playing against real people not ai. People can be smarter and at sometimes 
 dummer than ai.
  
  and thats is the four reasonds why cod4 is awesome on multiplayer.
  and thank you for reading!!
  HAVE FUN GAMING!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Valeria_Vitrix
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 26, 2008 2:48 pm PT
Review:  Having been a long running fan of the Call of Duty series I was inevitably intrigued when the fourth 
 installment was announced in 2007. 
  
  Despite having broken away from the traditional World War II setting, Call of Duty 4 has been a 
 complete success, and definitely wins my vote for best game of 2007. Although some have criticized 
 the singleplayer of being short, its difficulty and superb plot more than make up for this; providing 
 an edge-of-the-seat ride from start to finish. Whether crawling through Chernobyl in a ghillie 
 suit or witnessing a nuclear explosion up close, the game really does pull out all the stops to 
 provide one heck of an experience which far outpasses that of its rivals. 
  
  Most notably, the multiplayer is the best quality of Call of Duty 4. Whilst equaling the intensity 
 of Halo 3, the game's multiplayer manages to retain it's CoD originality which has come to be highly 
 respected amongst the gaming community. Although personally I felt the maps to be a little confined 
 (new maps soon to be released!) the overall gaming experience is par-none, with a wide range of 
 weapons, innovative ranking and points system, and a much needed 'create-a-class' function; the 
 multiplayer is the best so far.
  
  Call of Duty 4 is pure perfection? Surely you can't be serious?
  Well..... I'm serious. And don't 
 call me Shirley!
  
  Semper Fi
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: rj5958
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 25, 2008 10:50 pm PT
Review:  The Good:
  
  AI - Loves to throw grenades, rushes, always finds the toughest spot for you to dig out, blind 
 fires from behind doors, enemies aren't afraid to go hand to hand, attack dogs add a nice twist 
 to being rushed. The enemy doesn't relent after it knows where you are (enemies don't stand around) .
 
  
  Weapons - Most of the weapons are well balanced and serve a different purpose, the rifles dish 
 out medium damage and are great for medium distances, the machine guns are a joy to fire from the 
 hip (it really simulates suppressing fire when it goes full throttle) into a group of enemies due 
 to it's massive ammo clip (it also reloads a lot slower than any other gun) . Sidearms, though weak, 
 have a very fast draw (when the rifle or the machine gun is reloading) . 
  
  Story - The story delivers a fantastic twist, the historical backdrop is believable, certain character 
 developments and interactions are so immerse that sometimes the player might lose themselves in 
 the character dynamics (the sniper mission) .
  
  Level design - pacing for enemy encounters is perfect (from fighting a ground war in the middle 
 east to covert operations near Russia) , some of the level designs are absolutely suspenseful. 
 
  
  Graphics - The game is very creative when it comes to shocking you with some in-game sequences. 
 The graphics are very decent and the colors are rendered realistically but not so demanding as 
 to require an expensive rig. The information icons (ammo, objectives, info, etc) are presented 
 in a way that doesn't spoil the realism of the game.
  
  Audio - Dialogue is masterfully spoken by the actors. Accents are genuine and the enemies speak 
 different languages. The lines are brilliantly scripted to add to the suspense and realism in certain 
 parts of the game (especially the sniper mission) . The gun fire is beefy and details such as ringing 
 of the ears from standing too close to a tank while it is firing adds to the atmosphere. The music 
 and ambiance in CoD 4: MW is good enough for Hollywood big budget movies.
  
  Fun unlockables.
  
  Difficulty can be easy (for the casual gamer) to hellishly difficult (for 
 the advanced gamer) . The difficulty doesn't just rely on numbers of enemies it also raises their 
 "unrelenting-ness". On higher diffculties, the enemies will hound you with grenades and react a 
 lot faster.
  
  The Bad:
  
  I didn't find a use for the shotgun.
  
  The game was short, but I feel that it was such a great game that every moment and every level 
 was memorable. There was no filler. 
  
  The NPC soldiers that help you sometimes get killed very easily (but it's understandable to have 
 most of the tough fights be carried by the player) and the game has an infinite stream of them 
 (I'm not 100% sure if it's really infinite but it always seemed like when one gets killed another 
 reappears shortly after) .
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: coolspikes
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 25, 2008 1:11 pm PT
Review:  COD4 is possibly the best game ever created, with its stylish graphics, beautiful visuals, and 
 deep multiplayer that will keep you engaged for hours. So what the single player is short, its 
 a good story line, the multiplayer throws you into a endless sea of options, the only thing you 
 dont get to do is build your character from ground up, maybe thats a good thing. You get special 
 abilitys that you can equip to make your player move faster, take more damage, less recoil and 
 so on. As you rank up you will gain more abilities, weapons, add ons to your weapons. The multiplayer 
 is very deep you will be playing for hours and hours and still not have everything. If you think 
 that halo is better then this game then im sorry but your a freakin moron, halo 1 2 3 suck compared 
 to COD 4. Halo has nothing on this game at all so if you have to choose one, go with COD 4 you 
 will have more to do then beat off to master chief. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: punkkong
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 25, 2008 4:05 am PT
Review:  first thing u must get this game for the sake of it is so awesome u can like kill people in the 
 single player getting inteligance and playing with the overpowerd guns or u can do some real gaming 
 and play multiplayer with ur ur friends and other super nerdy 15 year olds that alos bum world 
 of warcraft as i was saying u have to upgrade r gun so it can be better unlike the single mode. 
 it may not have a friends section to add friends but there are over 100,000 thousands of severes 
 world wide. some of ur friends might say it is gonna be just like all other multiplayer shooters 
 boring after a whie but this isn't if ur lokking for me onling look in the 24/7 hardcore crossfire 
 servers and lokk for chambers101 and i will show u how to game other fame u may want to look at 
 are :
  gears of war
  gears of war 2
  graw
  graw2
  army of two 
  crysis
  darksector
  and lots of othergame could own u at 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mirdza
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 25, 2008 4:47 am PT
Review:  This is a multiplayer-only review, because honestly I don't like over scripted short single player 
 campaigns. What we have here new to Call Of Duty franchise is the addition of levels, perks and 
 challenges and the 'hardcore' mode. Some things are nothing new here to gaming, because it's been 
 done before in games like Battlefield 2. What is new is the addition of idiotic perks like Last 
 Stand which enables you to draw your gun to for few last kills until you die, even if hit with 
 Barrett .50cal sniper rifle which, in real life, will blow you in half. It would be cool if this 
 perk would work only 10-15% of the time, because I've seen that on smaller maps, like Vacant, people 
 get half of their kills through Last Stand. Another idiotic perk is Martyrdom, which lets you drop 
 a grenade every time you get killed. Even if you threw all your grenades before. So when you're 
 killing someone, you have to spend half the magazine on an enemy with stepping away from the body. 
 It seems that these perks are meant for 11-year old kids who can't accept the fact that somebody 
 actually killed them. And the hardcore mode, is actually what normal mode should look like. It 
 just removes your HUD and kills can be executed with minimum shots. And it makes grenade launchers 
 overpowered. Multiplayer is, in fact, infectious, and very fun to play. Lowdowns of it are that 
 it feels too frenetic on smaller maps, like playing Quake 3, not a military shooter, and these 
 perks, and some other stuff can make it highly annoying. Waiting for some real hardcore mods. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Scorfio
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 24, 2008 4:55 pm PT
Review:  COD4 is in one word: astonishing. Absolutely everything about this game is top notch. The graphics 
 look superb, and the sound of the guns are very realistic. The game throws you into the action 
 from the start. Although the singleplayer is a stunner from start to finish, it does have it flaws. 
 The campaign is rather short, you can complete it in about 8 hours. This could take you longer, 
 if you choose one the higher difficulties. While there are 4 difficulties to choose from, I sometimes 
 had the feeling that the difference between regular and hardened is a bit too big. This is especially 
 noticeable in the mission "One Shot, One Kill". I'm not going to tell what happens in this mission, 
 but you can be certain that it's quite hard, especially on hardened or veteran.
  The multiplayer mode of the game is honestly, even better. You have a wide range of weapons to 
 choose from, like the MP5 and the M4. You also have the choice to build your own custom classes. 
 This is especially useful when you want to use the perks. These are special abilities that can 
 be assigned to your character, so that you have for example, increased accuracy or increased bullet 
 power. You can assign 3 different perks at a time. There aren't many perks nor weapons available 
 from the start, but they increase as you gain more experience. This system is put together in such 
 a way that even the less good players get experience and will eventually be able to use all guns 
 and perks.
  The multiplayer maps are also well constructed. There are a few maps with open area's in which 
 to snipe, while there are maps with narrow passageways, so the action can get very intense. There 
 are also a few maps where you can perform urban warfare, so there something in it for everyone.
 
  
  All in all, Call Of Duty 4: Modern Warfare is a game of exceptional quality. You can play it for 
 hours on end. If you still don't owe it, I suggest you run to the nearest Wal-Mart and get a copy.
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Buflonob
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 24, 2008 3:17 pm PT
Review:  What this game does, it does well. 
  
  ... Unfortunately it reminds me very much of a game called Black Hawk Down that was released years 
 ago ('03/'04 if i remember correctly) by Novalogic.
  
  The single player game is very good fun, but ends before you can blink in comparison to other games 
 single player mode.
  
  The multiplayer game ends up being neither a snipe fest or a run around blast fest due to the levels 
 being designed so that hardcore gamers (sad players with no life who spend all the waking hours 
 playing) learn the good spots and get all the brain fart upgrades very quickly, leaving normal 
 gamers (ones who have wives/girlfriends, other hobbies, and real friends) lacking in time and fun 
 due to the games claustrophobically small levels when you play enough to realise how small they 
 are.
  
  For example, i'm all up for upgrades meaning new weapons, but things like being able to stock 3 
 times as many nades, especially in some of the close quarter levels you end up playing where a 
 nade thrown is a sure kill. so three kills per spawn is gonna get more points per game than a single 
 nade to throw per life.
  Also the ability for a very experienced (sad) player being able to carry two primary weapons, where 
 all others can only carry one, kinda makes the balance VERY uneven, especially when this ability 
 is only endowed when you have already spent enough time playing you dream the levels!! (probably)
 
  
  All in all the multiplayer is a tired has-been that has very amateurishly introduced upgrades with 
 no consideration to the long term players, Black Hawk Down kept the (IMHO) sad players hooked cos 
 they knew get to the top and then spend it there kicking other normal players off the ladder as 
 they climbed up at a normal pace, they obv feel they are lacking something in life and instead 
 of going out and getting it they like to hide in these virtual euphoric sadvilles where there are 
 so limited ways of attacking your foes the upgrades make all the difference.
  
  If the makers of COD4 really want to prove themselves they need to bring in vehicles and larger 
 maps etc, like the other game makers have been doing for years!!!!.. duuuuur, otherwise they might 
 as well never program another multiplayer game again. Stick to what you are good at and keep bringing 
 out the single player games (don't waste money like Valve and have to release your cream of games 
 in rip-off episodes to try and claw back the money you wasted trying!-please)
  
  The important point i'm trying to make is that variety of weapons is the key, older games had people 
 running around shooting (like COD4 still does?) , newer games introduce player controlled helicopters, 
 jets, jeeps, remote controlled drones, field artillery etc etc and add many more ways of attacking 
 the enemy reducing their chance of defending easily. COD4 takes those much needed options and throws 
 them away so the deciding factors are only a few limited (boring) options run around and shoot 
 them erm.... oh and nade, if you have any left! cos you can't restock!!!!
  
  It doesn't surprise me that a hacker in a game like COD4 is noticed in a few minutes as these attack 
 options make it so, the ones in other more varied games make it harder for them to succeed as even 
 hackers can be killed if you attack them with something they haven't equipped themself for!.
  
  All in all ratings from me are:
  SIngleplayer, 9 out of 10
  Multiplayer, a disappointing 
 5 out of 10
  
  Graphically advanced but then we can all take an old good game and think it'll be good cos one 
 like it before was!!, and this one looks better!!.... LOOKS being the key word. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dragonite136
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 24, 2008 6:52 am PT
Review:  Im a fan of the CoD series and i own them all.
  Reason for being a fanboy is that I like WW2 and i think its very interesting.
  So when i heard 
 this game wont be WW2 anymore, i was shocked and when i saw the first movies and images i was sooo 
 sad.
  
  BUT, when i downloaded the demo on my brand new ownage PC, i was blown away! WOW the game looked 
 sooo good, and the controls felt like oldschool COD.
  
  So i just bought the game: D Singleplayer was ok but kind of short. Just like all singeplayers of 
 the series i completed it in like 2 or 3 days.
  
  But ofcourse, this game has an online mode! (duh)
  I really love playing online and i love the 
 rankingsystem, allthough its to easy to rank up. 
  
  My negative vision on this game, I miss WW2!!! so no 10 for this game!
  
  Conclusion: New in 
 the series, and very good allthough its not WW2.
  Cant whait for CoD5 this winter!!! WW2 ftw 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hollow_ichigo7
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 24, 2008 4:31 am PT
Review:  THIS GAME ROCKS. 
  
  The single-player campaign is just right, though I think they should put the US in a little more. 
 The story is pretty good and the gameplay is great, offering many user-friendly controls and a 
 wide variety of weapons, from the M16 to an AK-74u. The graphics are good and the weapons feel 
 real, unlike some games where there is no recoil or anything. 
  
  They also brought back Captain Price. 
  
  As for Multiplayer, they did a very good job, and 
 he perks system is very interesting. Other than that, the ranks are also there and they made a 
 0,1,2 system with the ranks, which means that there's private, private 1 and private 2 and then 
 lance corporal, rather than making the exp gap so huge that everyone hates it. It also offers many 
 weapons and unlockable upgrades, such as silencers, red dot sights and ACOG scopes. Also, most 
 assault rifles have the M203 or GP-25 grenade launchers available for attachment. The maps are 
 also very well picked, and they work with most of the weapons, so there are many ways to gain EXP 
 (kill) during matches. Also, unlike other games, pistols can KILL and various camouflage patterns 
 are available. 
  
  
  Overall, if you're not a single-player person, the multiplayer itself is well worth the money. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Shogun26
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 23, 2008 2:30 pm PT
Review:  Well, No Doubt, this is a Strong game ever created, shooting is more than perfect, choosing weapons 
 and of course the favourite one Stand the SNIPER AGOC.
  Graphics are well, backgrounds and all moving charachers, Status of "Saddam Hussein" is here too. 
 The story is in trouble, i was surprised by the suddenly passage from story to other, the only 
 relation between Al Asad and zarkaef is "The Nuclear Bomb", So is it enough the make this dispatch.??
 
  Well this is not a political debate here we enjoy, and certainly, this is a cool game, enjoy everybody, 
 to kill and to bi killed. So if you are good on sniper shoot, running away from grenades, you are 
 the the best FPS shooter here.
  I thing the better story should keep the long of the game without a swap. that makes the scenario 
 more amazing than now on this Beauty game.
  
  Thanks EA.. And thanks Gamespot staff 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jyc7792
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 22, 2008 11:23 am PT
Review:  Call of Duty 4, well, its hard to describe the sensation I get while playing it. Since ive never 
 done any illegal drug related activity, I guess its the closest thing i'll ever get to it. Heres 
 my rundown of why you should pick up a copy of Call of Duty 4. Although its mostly just about the 
 good things, as seen in my score for the game, but there are a little bit of things to look out 
 for.
  
  
  Gameplay: If youve played previous call of duties made by Infinity Ward (excluding call of duty 
 3) then this game is right at home for you. I myself was shocked when they annouced that the game 
 would be in modern times, and had very mixed reations, but when i finally got to sit down with 
 the game, it was like i just jumped in a time machine. The gameplay feels just like the first two 
 pc games, and if you're into immersive, spectacular kind of gameplay, then this is for you. 
  
  Sound: Guns blazing, nades, cars, helicopters, even explosive barrels all sound great. Even 
 the high pitched ringing after getting hit by a stun grenade makes the game feel like you're more 
 involved within the game. Each gun has a different and unique sound allowing other players to recognize 
 the different weapons you carry.
  
  Graphics: Hope your computer can handle this game. If you have a nice box running this game, then 
 you're in luck. Unfortunatly my video card is barely passing, but I have played on more higher 
 tech computers. Everything looks great and as always in the call of duty franchise, i could imagine 
 running through smoke in the game, is like running through smoke on the real battlefield, just 
 without the "I might really really die" instead of "i might get fraged and have to go a different 
 route next time"
  The game might not be crysis, but it sure as hell beats a majority of the games to date. Check 
 out the screenshots that gamespot has if you aren't convinced. Those are just some of the spectacular 
 scenaries within the game.
  
  Single-Player: The first time i got my hands on this game, i played through about 2 mission, then 
 dove into multiplyar for a long time and didnt get back to single player until I had gained a few 
 promotions online. (ill mention that later) It wasnt until I finished playing the single player 
 did i realize how great it really was. The situation is grows into chaos as you play as the Marines 
 and the British Sas in the fight to protect the world from terrorists. I quickly became invovled 
 with this story, and when i finally finished about 6 hours later, i just wanted more. It was like 
 an epic movie, or a really good book if you read. If you decide to purchase the game, make sure 
 you play on a level that is challenging to you, as the more you work to play the game, the better 
 you feel when you actually complete it. Try the harder difficulties rather then just zipping by 
 with the easiest one. Some missions are pretty difficult and I myself did have to restart the mission 
 multiple times. It is short, but at least the game is good at being short.
  
  Multiplayer: Let me take a few seconds of a finger break as i get ready to write about the amazing 
 mulitplayer. .............. sigh, ok. Multiplayer for every call of duty game on the pc is fantastic. 
 The franchise has an incredible re-playablility factor in it. ( i still scrim in cod 1 and 2) If 
 you like fast paced shootin and frantically sprinting around to take down the enemy, you've got 
 that in this game. If you like tactical shooting while feeling like you're in real war and your 
 lives do count, then you also have that too. There are thousands of different servers with different 
 types of gameplay. Modes include but certainly arent limited to: the classics, deathmatch, team 
 deathmatch, capture the flag, search and destroy ( those in all pc call of duties) along with some 
 new ones like domination and sabotage. Like i said, those arent the only modes as people in the 
 world like to invent new maps, and gameplay called mods. There are different type of i guess, ways 
 to play, as you can play with a hud, or what i prefer, hardcore mode, where you have nothing but 
 the gun in front of you, and every single weapon is deadly. (unlike the regular mode, where guns 
 are limited to the powerful ones, if youre good) These can change many things in the game and you 
 might just find a new creative favorite game mode for your call of duty 4 playing. 
  
  The system: What i mean for the system in call of duty 4, is how ranking, weapons, achievements, 
 and teamplay come into the multiplayer. I made this a separate topic to explain the most fun you'll 
 have in this game. 
  
  Ranks: you start as private, a level 1, and work your way to the top as general at level 55. It 
 doesnt take too too long to be a level 55, but playing time is required. I took about a week of 
 casual playing on the search and destroy gametype. Sure with ranks comes a little bit of pride, 
 but just about everybody is level 55 and working on their second accounts just for fun. The real 
 reward in leveling up is the weapons you unlock. As you gain ranks you gain access to every weapon 
 in the game. Sure you can pick up somebody's level 49 .50 cal semi-auto sniper for a round, but 
 when you actually reach level 49, you get to spawn and respawn with it every round.
  That being said, we move on to weapons and other goods.
  
  Weapons: Weapons come in every size 
 and shape. If you like the big guns then go big, if you like the mini uzis and mini guns, then 
 thats fine too. (i prefer the skorpian, a small sub-machine gun) Snipers can go happy to know that 
 there isnt just one gun. Semi-autos, bolts, different traits for each offer up to 5 different gun, 
 each having the options to go acog scope. In the regular mode, i found some guns to be hard to 
 use against other people's big hitters, but on hardcore mode, everygun is a good choice. Not only 
 can you pick from a large variety of weapons, but you can attach red dots, acog scopes, silencers, 
 and grips to your choice of guns. Each gun is separated into different categories, assault rifles, 
 sub machine guns, light machine guns, shotguns (2 of them) and Sniper Rifles. As you kill more 
 people with a certain gun, you unlock those add-ons, and as you get more headshots, you can even 
 unlock different camos for your gun. (want your ak-47 to be gold? then just complete every single 
 achievement in the assault class) Bottom line, these guns rock.
  
  Achievements: there are many achievments in this multiplatform title. You dont need Xbox live to 
 earn these. Along with the weapons achievements, there are certain situations such as, survive 
 a whole match, or shoot the c4 through the wall, and kill somebody. All of these, giving you expierience 
 points for your level, and i guess bragging rights if you happen to complete them all. Its not 
 easy to complete every single one of these, but it can be done.
  
  Perks: perks are a new addition to the call of duty series. Perks can range from extra ammo, c4, 
 claymores, rpgs, and other equipment. Others include special ones like longer sprint time, faster 
 reloading, faster shooting, more health, and much much much more. Perks are what make this game 
 so different for multiplayer as everybody can customize to their very own liking. If you like first 
 person shooters and like to get involved in a clan, then perks also come to many different roles 
 to play.
  
  So far, thats all the topics that i think i can cover now on to the Bad.
  
  The Bad: ummm...... im thinking right now, and..... Oh, i got one, recently, the people of call 
 of duty 4 announced a new map pack with 3 maps including a remake of the classic from call of duty 
 1 and 2, carentan. The bad part is... its only for the playstation 3, and Xbox 360. If you really 
 really want to buy these maps, then the pc version isnt for you. I personally still prefer the 
 gameplay of pc and dissapointed about this. 
  
  Thats all i can think of right now, this took me some time, and i hope that you enjoyed reading 
 this. 
  
  
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: octop8
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 22, 2008 5:30 am PT
Review:  This is one of those games that make you worry that reality will not live up to the hype. I deliberately 
 waited until the game had been released for awhile before purchasing it to see what "critics" think. 
 I am glad to say that the game does not disappoint. If anything, the only complain is that the 
 single-player campaign is far too short. I did not spend a lot of time on the multiplayer.
  
  The singleplayer campaign is a rich and intense experience, weapons feel realistic, leaving 
 you almost breathless at the end of the campaign. Some really unique and heart-pounding missions 
 presented. The graphics are fantastic. With DX9 functioning at these levels, who needs DX10? I 
 can't wait for them to release a DX10 "patch" if ever there will be one. The game is almost the 
 definition of "cool". Highly replayable. This is a short, sweet and brutal game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: arijit_unreal
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 22, 2008 3:29 am PT
Review:  Call of Duty is a well established FPS in business. it needs no introduction. Call of Duty 4 : 
 Modern Warfare takes us into the heart of urban warfare. Lots of new elements have been added to 
 the game. The gameplay is great too with excellent graphics and sound.
  
  Be prepared to experience the latest weapons that include M4-A1, MP-5SD and JAVELIN (anti-tank 
 missile) . The game also include Abraham tanks, AH-64, and my personal favorite B-52 BOMBER (you 
 actually get the chance to fire from it) .
  
  The campaign requires you to carry out missions with USMC and SAS. You will be put in the middle 
 of anti-terror war and complete your objectives. Ever seen a Nuclear Explosion ? The game ensures 
 you experience the horrors of a nuke. If you play the tutorial the game will auto detect your skill.
 
  
  This is a must have for Action Games lovers. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jecstir
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 22, 2008 1:22 am PT
Review:  well, finally we don't have to buy another game for a while.
  single player: short but sweet
  multiplayer: frustrating if you suck
  
  The game is just 
 your basic first person shooter, but it is the most perfect first person shooter to date. The flaws 
 in the game are... nonexistant, so don't try looking for them. During the mutliplayer play your 
 character actually levels up with xp, and you reach certain unlockables throught the experience. 
 It was my experience that there are only a few good guns that are worth playing seriously with, 
 but all are good with skill. The mutli player may fall short when it comes to variety of maps to 
 play on, but they are probably saving those for an expansion in the future... duh! I was a fan of 
 the original COD.
  
  graphics are easy to run without a beef'd up machine
  gameplay has huge amount of replay value
  variety is lacking
  controls are easy
  learning 
 curve has to be .... 5 min to learn and never "masterable" since there is always going to be someone 
 that has played more than you, or has some other advantage due to a more powerful machine or internet 
 connection.
  fun factor as far as this genre goes is 10/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: game_overdose54
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 21, 2008 8:06 pm PT
Review:  Here is the game that scream the word perfection. Call of Duty 4: Modern Warfare will be one of 
 the best games you will ever buy in your lifetime. The only thing bad is the short campaign, but 
 the story more than makes up for it. The story is in the perspective of a British S. A. S (Special 
 Air Service) operative and a member of USMC Force Recon (United States Marine Corps) . The British 
 guy is the primary protaganist, fighting Russian Ultranationalists (opposing the main antagonist) 
 and the Marine is the secondary protaganist, fighting a corrupt war in the Middle East. My three 
 favorite missions are "Death From Above", the mission that requires you to fly in an AC-130 gunship 
 letting you rain all hell on your enemies, and the two flashback missions "All Ghilled Up" and 
 "One Shot, One Kill", which has you sneak through Chernobyl's Zone of Alienation. (On April 26, 
 1986, a nuclear meltdown occurred in Ukraine, causing the biggest nuclear incident in history. 
 To this day, parts of Ukraine are currently uninhabitable.) But enogh history lessons. The multiplayer 
 is PHENOMENAL! There are a range of weapons to unlock. The highest level is 55, rank of Commander, 
 coming with a standard issue Gold Desert Eagle. Level up high enough and get Prestige mode, which 
 lets you trade in everything and restart. It show everyone that you kick ass at the game. NO OFFENSE 
 TO THOSE THAT LIKE HALO 3, but don't compare this to Halo 3! This game so much better and has a 
 bigger replay value than that crap. Buy this game whoever plays "Gaylo" 3. You will throw Master 
 Chief away a half hour later! But to the point, this is one on the best games to grace ANY console. 
 Bye! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: linkthewindow
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 21, 2008 4:55 am PT
Review:  The Call of Duty series is one series that everyone-from the consolites to PC gamers loves. Call 
 of Duty 1 and 2 had intense action, including a 'movie-like' feel and, a first for the time great 
 multiplayer as well as great single-player. Although Call of Duty 3 did not live up to expectations, 
 the series is still loved by everyone.
  
  The most immediate thing noticeable to the player is the visuals and sound. And, oh boy to they 
 rock. They are very well optimized-and will run fine on mid-range PC's-looking pretty good. It 
 makes you feel like that you are in the middle of a war, instead of some guy looking at a computer 
 screen full of wire frame polygons. Unlike Crysis, the game looks good on most gamer systems.
  
  The sound is just as good-very immersing. I was running in only 2.1 (with some amazing bass) 
 and I can only imagine how godlike it would be in 5.1 surround. The explosions and everything sound 
 crisp and fine. Gun sounds are also realistic.
  
  Subscores: 
  Graphics: Excellent (10\10)
  Sound: Above Average (9\10)
  
  Now, of course, great graphics 
 and sound are useless if the gameplay and story suck, right. And, thankfully, they don't stop with 
 the greatness there.
  
  The gameplay is very good. You feel like you are in the middle of a war, there are enough weapons, 
 and the AI is very good. All the usual stuff. However, like all great games, Call of Duty 4 has 
 the extra 'spice' that turns it from a technically-great game to a masterpiece.
  
  However, I do have my gripes. The spawning system for enemies is outdated-Infinity Ward obviously 
 did not read the memo that unlimitedly-spawning enemies is out of date. Also, the game has a checkpoint 
 system, which can be annoying if you have to go in between checkpoints. The game is also short 
 in easier difficulties (5 hours) but play it on hard, or go to the multiplayer once the singleplayer 
 is done.
  
  Subscore Gameplay: Above Average (9\10)
  
  The story can be seen as overdone and old or a new take on an old thing-World War III. Except, 
 in Call of Duty 4 World War III lasts for under a week and is fought mostly by special forces. 
 
  
  The story in a nutshell. An American-allied middle-eastern nation has an Islamic rebellion. The 
 leader is executed live on national TV. The Marines are sent in (Marine missions.)
  
  Meanwhile, the British SAS are dealing with a civil war in Russia with 15000 nukes at stake. Sounds 
 interesting. And it is. Call of Duty 4's story is very good.
  
  Subscore: Story: Above Average (8\10)
  
  Now, for the multiplayer. The multiplayer is a major 
 selling point of this game. After you have wasted 5 hours on the single-player, the multiplayer 
 is the only place to turn. And, oh boy, does it rock.
  
  Its pretty much a hybrid of all those twitch shooters you have played over the years (Unreal, Halo) 
 and more tactical shooters (Counter Strike, Team Fortress.) There are many game mods catering for 
 everyone-from blatant Counter-strike ripoffs (Search and Destroy) to simple deathmatches (Free 
 for all.)
  
  The multiplayer gameplay is pretty good-but what really pushes the game from a 'good multiplayer 
 game' to a 'highly addictive one' is the unlocks system.
  
  Unlike Battlefield 2, where people with unlocked guns had a major advantage over newer players 
 with no unlocks, the unlocks in Call of Duty 4 don't unbalance the playing field too much (I know 
 a lot of experienced players that play with the AK47 or MP5-two new-player guns.) 
  
  Subscore Multiplayer: Excellent (10\10)
  
  In conclusion, Call of Duty 4 is a masterpiece. 
 It doesn't innovate, it merely makes what was good before amazing. However, some problems with 
 the length of the single-player campagn and the amount of time it takes to become good at the multiplayer 
 can turn people off.
  
  Rent or Buy?: Rent if your in for the single-player, buy for the multiplayer.
  
  Final Score: 
 Masterpeice (9.7\10-rounded down to 9.5) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NailMaster
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 21, 2008 3:40 am PT
Review:  No words, this game is amazing and it's truly the best of CoD series! Of course, i agree ,that single 
 player is short, but it is hard too. If you play it on Veteran difficulty ,then single player will 
 be long! Graphics, guns are awesome! Story is pretty interesting too, but could be better! I think 
 ,arcade mode is useless, but it doesn't disturb me! Speaking about multiplayer, i haven't played 
 so great multiplayer like this! Level system is very interesting, it isn't like you just go and 
 collect frags, but here you need to gain XP points and do different challenges, which makes CoD4 
 multiplayer unique and exciting! About minuses, there are only several minuses, i don't like that 
 some missions in single player are unrealistic. For example, mission in Chernobyl, when you need to 
 fight against 50+ enemies with your friend till your helicopter comes to you! Come on, in real 
 life they would be dead man! And many multiplayer maps is boring and is just "Campers" maps.. This 
 game is worth to play!
  
  P. S no need for CoD5, because this could be great final for Call of Duty series! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: coodename007
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 20, 2008 9:42 am PT
Review:  There are 3 aspects of making perfect video game. 
  1. Graphics
  2. Game play 
  3. Feeling what the game gives you must be awesome.
  
  
  GRAPHICS
  Perfect.. you are like 
 a real soldier in a real battle.
  
  GAME PLAY
  if your playng you can shoot thru stuff and walls. Cars blow up, shoot the Russian or US apache 
 down with rpg. Blow up heads with dragunov sniper rifle. Make the soldiers explode by planting 
 demolitions.
  And it keeps getting better. New upgrades-  new rifles- new scopes and so on. 
  
  Feeling is 
 the most important think that keeps you playing. If the game is boring you dont play it. COD4 is 
 one of those games what you play and you keep on playing. You wake up in the morning you have to 
 go to job/school and you say:" Who cares, im playing COD4 today !" 4 hours pass by like 10 minutes.. 
 game is great.. Ouu yea.. 
  
  Il hope you find the game as exiting as i did.. 
  Best wishes from coodename007
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: FrostyPhantasm
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 20, 2008 9:16 am PT
Review:  Call of Duty 4 surpasses its previous installments in which took place during WW2. If you didn't 
 like any of the other COD games you probablly won't like this one either, if you appreciate the 
 previous games, then you will adore this game to its fullest extent. The singleplayer has a great 
 story (which you don't normally find in a FPS game) , excelent graphics, and amazing gameplay. If 
 you haven't played a COD game before you run from checkpoint to checkpoint doing objectives with 
 your squadmates who sometimes help out but other times are only there to lay some suppresionfire 
 as in some points, enemies respawn until you move up, others however they do not. Once you finish 
 the short but sweet singleplayer missions, you unlock arcade mode which adds a nice taste to the 
 gameplay, in which you are awarded points for doing certain things or getting kills in certain 
 ways such as headshots and difficulty. Once you are finished with that, you can play multiplayer, 
 where COD4 excells past compitetion, you have various modes which come in 3 different overall modes, 
 Hardcore which is your oldschool type COD multiplayer in which you die in a couple hits, normal 
 which is more like a Quake/Unreal tournament style, and oldschool which involves you picking up 
 guns and "perks" on the map. Perks are the superpowers of the COD4 universe, you get to choose 
 3 of them in multiplayer that can do things like shoot through walls, throw gernades when your 
 done, extra ammo and extra damage. The ranking system is also a great addition, in which whatever 
 gun you use, you will get upgrades for getting certain acheivements with it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pooyas
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 20, 2008 3:57 am PT
Review:  Call of Duty 4 (COD) has a new target in bringing the today's world challenges against terrorists. 
 In Campaign mode you operate in SAS and USMC as two different persons. You operate with both Russians 
 and Americans. With your American character you die in a nuclear explosion but your second character 
 with SAS continue to go and kill the Russian terrorists. You have lots of moments in the game where 
 all of your muscles are hardened and you kill the endless enemy with your firepower along with 
 your team. 
  
  The three Acts of the game separates the game in three episodes which enhance the progress of the 
 storyline. The good part of the game is that your enemy has very good AI and also throw grenades 
 and flash bangs at you. Most of other games don't do this and just shoot at you. You can also expect 
 any enemies comes from anywhere in the room or in the wide area. 
  
  After finishing the single player campaign, Arcade mode will be unlocked. In this arcade you get 
 scores by shooting at enemies. You also get bonus by hit streak the enemy or by finishing the mission 
 in shorter time. The multiplayer is also a great game. You can have 18 players for 16 maps and 
 more to add to the game maps by downloading other maps. You can have different types of games and 
 different types of firepowers which puts you in a great multi player game environments. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rebelious
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 18, 2008 3:09 pm PT
Review:  Loving this game. Call of Duty 4 is definately one of the best first person shooters amongst the 
 many that have been released in the past year alone. This is honestly my first time stepping into 
 the Call of Duty series, and I have to say that it left a really good impression.
  
  The single player is great. The A. I. in this game is very challenging and helpful when it comes 
 to your own squad. You'll be kept on the move taking cover fire, tossing back grenades that your 
 enemies threw at you, and even getting frustrated at key points through out the levels. The story 
 is very modern considering that it relates to todays issues with Iraq. The graphics are just beautiful 
 and the sound brings the whole atmosphere to life. My only issue with single player is that it's 
 way to short for my taste.
  
  The multiplayer is also engaging. A rank systems works like gaining experience points in an RPG. 
 The higher your rank the more accest you have to better guns and perks like the last stand where 
 you when get shot down you get to use your pistol to take out your enemy before you die.
  
  This game is one you really need to own.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: T0ffee_C4
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 17, 2008 9:30 am PT
Review:  Call of duty 4's single player part is too short, but nonetheless perfect! it was so fun it was 
 over in a flash, but it did not bother me because the multiplayer.
  Oh dear lord i praise my god every day for he gave me this wonderful game. I cant get enough, the 
 way the bullets fly, the genious balance of perks, the weapons gives you such a kick, the airstrike, 
 the helicopter, the way the character models move and run and shoot and tap their assault west 
 when they stand still, the blend of scripted and ragdoll deaths, the way last stand is so good 
 to have yourself and so annoying when getting shot by it, the way debris flies around when a grenade 
 go off, the way a headshot gives you the pling of metal becouse you hit the metal helmet, the way 
 a teammate will shout reloading when he is actually reloading!
  
  Yes, allot of this has been seen in other games, but never been put together so beautifully and 
 gracefully like an artistic dance of death and beauty and violence and gore and blood and guns 
 and bullets and grenades and flashbangs and smoke grenades and everything!
  
  This is the perfect game.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: PorkNBeans
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 17, 2008 5:21 am PT
Review:  It's safe to say what broke me into gaming on the PC was the first person shooting genre, Doom, 
 Duke Nukem etc (of course I am talking about the originals) got me sucked in a bit but never really 
 pulled me away from console gaming like Half-Life & when Counter-Strike was a beta not what it 
 has become. Eventually I grew tired of this genre because it seemed & still seems every FPS is 
 just a carbon copy of everything else out there & while some have a decent plot the online mode 
 will end up being the same old stuff with different graphics. the game that had a solid chance 
 of being big on the PC was Gears of War but the horrible support from Epic games in fixing the 
 stuttering issues with that game is what destroyed that on the PC. Crysis & Call of Duty 4 are 
 a breath of fresh air & much needed for FPS enthusiasts on the PC & Call of Duty 4 is excellent 
 in every way both online & offline with the only issue at all is the short single player, I for 
 one am hoping they make expansion packs to prolong the single player experience. This game is a 
 must buy for any FPS junkie. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: -_-warrior-_-
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 16, 2008 9:18 pm PT
Review:  CoD4 has all the terrorist activity you'd want, evil leaders, dramatic encounters and plenty of 
 stunning scripted moments that will make your jaw hit the floor.
  
  Your opening mission sets the tone for the rest of the game. Set at night, you board a tanker with 
 the rest of the Spec Ops team and go about silently taking down the crew members. It's incredibly 
 slick, with your team-mates doing a lot of the work for you, but soon things go wrong and you're 
 forced to evacuate as quickly as possible. From then on your team-mates aren't quite so helpful 
 and you have to put your own gun-skills to the test in a six-hour thrill ride.
  
  Hmm, six hours? Sadly that's just about the most you'll get out of the single-player campaign when 
 played through on Normal difficulty. More skilful players will be able to attempt Hardened difficulty 
 to get a few more hours out of the experience, and the real masochists out there can opt for the 
 'breathe near an enemy and die' fun that is Veteran. I won't pretend that I'm a gaming god and 
 have finished the game on Veteran, as I haven't, but it's damn hard and gives you something to 
 aim for once you've run through the campaign for the first time.
  
  The gunfire in the game is as solid as ever. The game still lets you pick up grenades and throw 
 them back at your enemy, you still have access to a melee attack, and shooting Down the Sight is 
 still the preferred method of gunning down enemies. And of course, you still had your squadmates 
 helping you in the war that pretty much control themselves. The AI of your squadmates is a lot 
 better this time around, so you'll find that they react much like you would expect human players 
 to. You won't have to issue orders to them but they someone know exactly what to do. But there 
 are some subtle improvements, such as the fact that bullets can now go through thin material like 
 wood and scrap metal. It adds some additional depth to the game and makes it even more frantic 
 than it was before.
  
  Call of Duty 4 has a full-fledged multiplayer mode. The game supports 18 players on the consoles 
 and includes 16 maps. All of the game's maps are wonderful and provide for strategic gameplay, 
 and never feel too small or too big. The modes include a number of objective-based modes, as well 
 as the standard deathmatch and team deathmatch. Suffice it to say that you won't be running out 
 of stuff to do for quite some time. The game offers class-based multiplayer similar to its predecessors 
 but while the multiplayer mode begins with predetermined classes, you'll gain levels that will 
 give you new abilities and weapons. As you progress, you'll also be able to design your own class 
 by shooting three abilities and your starting weapons. It does have the potential to make things 
 more unbalanced as more people begin playing the game, but Infinity Ward does seem to have developed 
 a number of counters to any possible balance issues.
  
  Call of Duty 4 is everything we've come to love about the series and continues its tradition of 
 stunning visuals and thrilling gameplay. The single-player is short but the Arcade game mode and 
 brilliant online multiplayer combine to create one of the games of the year. It's more of the same, 
 but every bit as polished as we hoped it would be... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: iffanpathan
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 15, 2008 11:59 am PT
Review:  it is one of the best, fps game i have ever played in my life
  graphics , game story, game play excellent i rank it 9.5 out of 10i
  fps lover should not miss 
 this game
  yah
  n the thing that makes this game so special is a stroy line
  n game modes
  like arcade mode
  its an excellent thing , kind a new thing
  
  it is one 
 of the best, fps game i have ever played in my life
  graphics , game story, game play excellent i rank it 9.5 out of 10i
  fps lover should not miss 
 this game
  yah
  n the thing that makes this game so special is a stroy line
  n game modes
  like arcade mode
  its an excellent thing , kind a new thing
  it is one of the 
 best, fps game i have ever played in my life
  graphics , game story, game play excellent i rank it 9.5 out of 10i
  fps lover should not miss 
 this game
  yah
  n the thing that makes this game so special is a 
  stroy line
  n game modes
  like arcade mode
  its an excellent thing , kind a new thing 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Viciouslilmonst
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 15, 2008 11:46 am PT
Review:  This game is just amazing. 
  1. Graphics.
  The graphics are perfect. Everything looks so nice in the game and it's not TOO pimped out so that 
 you need a 99,999,999$ PC to run it. These are the exact kind of graphics that I love. Everything 
 from the watermelons on the tables to the character models and everything in between/else looks 
 incredible.
  2. Sound.
  Also great. I love hearing people go "Huh?" when they're suspicious of somebody walking outside 
 the building or something. The gunshots are perfect for each gun. You can hear them from a good 
 distance too. I don't know how to explain it but everything for the audio seems fantastic.
  3. Gameplay.
  The singleplayer is SO intense. There are some points in the game like when you 
 have to control the weapons in a helicopter, use a very powerful sniper to assassinate one guy, 
 etc where it becomes very... exciting? It's very short but still so amazing. I've played it over 
 multiple times. The ending of the singleplayer was very cool. I almost puked the first time from 
 it being so intense. The multiplayer is where it's at. All different ( and all, very good ) game 
 modes, sick maps, customizable classes ( choose and customize your own guns and stuff ) , and everything 
 just makes the multiplayer so great. The gameplay in multiplayer is almost as intense as that in 
 the singleplayer version. 
  4. What I think.
  Companies looking towards making FPS games should look up at CoD4 as their role model. This game, 
 in my opinion is perfect.
  I just really didn't want the singeplayer to end. It was the most fun I have ever had playing a 
 singleplayer FPS.
  
  10 On 10!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: andremafia
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 15, 2008 9:38 am PT
Review:  
  Being a fan of the Call Of Duty series myself, I have anticipated this game very much especially 
 after knowing that Call Of Duty 3 would not be released for Personal Computers but this game is 
 well worth the wait.
  
  This game is also special for being the first outside of a WWII thematic, IW has found out finally 
 that the World War 2 is being used too much as a set for video games so this game happens in the 
 actual days thats why it is called Modern Warfare, eh. Based on the actual state of the World we 
 will play in the Middle East as an American Marine and in Russia as a British Special Forces Soldier, 
 our Enemy, guess what? It's an Ultra fascist nationalist who wants to put some revenge over the 
West World" for destroying his country .
  
  The first impressions we get when playing the game is that the realism is amazing and everything 
 feels so right, the guns, the soldiers, sounds and so on.
  
  The single-player is very well built and the story despite being short is very cinematic and intense, 
 inspired on the 24 Tv show, you should have no problem beating the single player in under 10 hours. 
 Despite this, the singler-player experience is one of the best out there, with a captivating story 
 that should keep you amazed during the whole campaign. Variety in the missions is also another 
 positive point for this game, you will even get to control a bomber from air to support your troops 
 below you! Very Original.
  
  Multi-player is simply the jewel of the crown on this game, Many of the levels are taken from portions 
 of the single-player and they offer a healthy mix of wide-open, sniper-friendly areas and tight, 
 almost cramped spaces where grenades and shotguns are the order of the day. There are six game 
 modes to choose from. The old standby is team deathmatch, though you can also play in a free-for-all 
 deathmatch, which isn't as much fun as the team modes. The other modes are more objective-oriented, 
 and a couple of those have you lugging bombs across the map to blow up enemy equipment, or preventing 
 the enemy from blowing up your base. Others have you capturing control points. Lastly, you can 
 change up the game rules a bit with a hardcore setting that makes weapons more realistically damaging 
 or an old-school mode that puts weapons on the ground as pickups and generally moves away from 
 the simulation side of things.
  
  The class system in Call of Duty 4 is also very interesting. Each class has a different weapon 
 loadout and different traits, called perks. As you rank up, you eventually unlock all five of the 
 preset classes and the ability to create your own class. This lets you pick your own main weapon, 
 your sidearm, attachments for both weapons, what sort of special grenades you want to carry, and 
 three perks. The perks are broken up into three groups to help keep things balanced, and as you 
 continue to level, you'll unlock additional perks. These class traits are one of the game's neatest 
 tricks and, again, really helps to set COD 4 apart from the pack.
  
  
  Despite having a short single-player campaign, the multiplayer makes it well worth the buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Robonob2000
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 14, 2008 11:29 pm PT
Review:  COD4 is highly anticipated, and after COD3 wasn't on the pc, then it just made it even more hyped.
 
  
  The graphics are ok, but they dont give you a simple "High Graphics - Low Graphics" option, instead, 
 they give you all these different things, youre lucky if you know what they mean.
  
  The gameplay is somewhat awesome, grenades, zooming in, weapons, and all. The ai are pretty good, 
 and the level design is good.
  
  Multilayer inst always good, it is generally very annoying, as pro's will always throw a lucky 
 nade and kill you every 5 seconds. The ability to get new weapons is cool, but if you're stuck 
 with the lower weapons, then the higher players will annoy you.
  
  The atmosphere in the game is quite good, but the singer player campaign is short, very short. 
 
  
  The only real bad thing about this game that I can say is, you will get annoiyed when you played 
 online. It's a good game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rossi42424
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 14, 2008 6:11 pm PT
Review:  When I first saw this game advertised I thought "oh no, not another call of duty game, they just 
 keep going on and on!" It's probably going to be rubbish! I was wrong. I saw the ratings it was 
 getting all over gaming websites and mags, they just kept getting higher and higher. I couldn't 
 believe that it was getting such high reviews so I had to go buy the game and test it myself. When 
 I first got on the game I went straight onto the sungleplayer campaign, it was very easy and not 
 very long, but i played it on the easiest diffculty (don't ask!) . I then had a go at the hardest 
 difficulty and it was near impossible! Yet it had a brilliant story line and so I had to play it 
 again! After this I tryed out the multiplayer mode. I was amazed that the quality of the game was 
 still so good. The maps are brilliant, the guns and rank are brilliant, the whole multiplayer mode 
 is brilliant! I can't think of a single thing that is bad about the online multiplayer mode. It 
 was clearly and obviuosly made completely for the multiplayer game as a lot of effert has been 
 put into it! I seriuosly recommend this game! Game of the year 2007-2008! By far... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mr-Nezwych
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 13, 2008 1:47 pm PT
Review:  Call of Duty 4 was the second COD game i had played, after playing COD2: The Big Red One on PS2 
 and being hugely disappointed. I ended up being torn between Battlefield 2142 and COD4 and, thankfully, 
 i made the right decision.
  
  COD4 is an unmatchable FPS in all aspects, being the most realistic FPS to date, delivering the 
 best singleplayer story i have ever seen, whether its a helicopter coming down at your feet or 
 holding on for dear life when ur hit by a nuke while being extracted out of a middle-eastern city. 
 Unfortunately you can whiz through the singleplayer campaign on normal difficulty in around 5 to 
 6 hours, but for the best experience play on veteran-a refreshing challenge to the usual aim and 
 point. It is not the everybody live happily ever after kind of game in which you kill the bad guy 
 and that's it. The end is a grisly one, in which your whole squad is practically wiped out. The 
 multiplayer is exceedingly good as well, with upgrades and new weapons becoming available as you 
 level up, and offers months of replay value.
  
  COD4 is an unmatchable experience and a must have for any FPS fan, and for any gaming fan either 
 who knows the general difference between a "good" game and a "bad" one, like Runescape, for instance.
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: rammsteingamer
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 13, 2008 4:32 am PT
Review:  COD 4 is what a fps is meant to look like. You have never experienced war like this before. This 
 is for sure the best game in the series, the best fps, and the best storyline in all COD... The 
 game is played from the perspective of 2 soldiers, a British one, and an American. The game is 
 set nowadays and the scenarios are varied, but you will see a lot of "sand" .
  The sound in this game is superb and the voice qualities are even better, the gameplay is fantastic, 
 if you are used to fps, then feel at home ! 
  the graphics are just fenomenal, the character models and such are really really good, and the 
 bullet holes in the walls and little things like that are very realistic. 
  When you shoot an enemy he will react realistically to where the bullet hits him, wherever the 
 bullet hits him.
  The multiplayer is fenomenal, and maybe the best multiplayer in a fps !
  I have no Major complaints about this game, and i just have to say :
  BUY CALL OF DUTY 4. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: f_an
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 12, 2008 3:15 pm PT
Review:  I have always been a fan of the Call of Duty series from the first game. The second Call of Duty 
 had to be one of my favourite shooters I played in a very long time and it just had a great feel 
 to it. It capitalized on a shooting formula that worked great. Skipping Call of Duty 3 (wasn't 
 made by the same guys that made the earlier CoD games) I was pretty psyched for the new one. At 
 first I thought the game was going to be different with sprinting now included and being able to 
 shoot through walls and grenade launchers changing the entire gameplay but it didn't, it's still 
 the same great Call of Duty experience but even better.
  
  One of the things CoD has always been known for the constant cinematic feel to the singleplayer. 
 Things are defiantly no different here, with some sequences in the singleplayer just blowing you 
 away for the first play-through. While it's a nuke going off right in front of your eyes or escaping 
 from a sinking ship, some parts just feel like a movie. The arcade mode that gets unlocked after 
 completing the singleplayer experience adds quite a bit of life to the game. I played some missions 
 (especially the bonus) mission over and over again just seeing what score I could get.
  
  However, what I really like about the game is simply how it feels to play it. The game is interesting 
 because you can aim down the sights but unlike other games that do this; CoD focuses on this aspect 
 and does it well. You will be able to shoot down enemies close by in front of you from the hip 
 using the crosshair but if the target is even at medium range, you might want to consider the sights 
 and all the weapons have a pretty good distinct feel to them. CoD4 like CoD2 has taken its gameplay 
 formula quite a bit from Halo, where your health auto-regenerates quickly and melee or grenade 
 attacks are easily accessible. A lot of people complain about dieing from grenades quite often 
 and although once you're used to it, it's hardly a problem in singleplayer; it can be a huge pain 
 in multiplayer where grenades can get cooked (held onto so the timer's shorter when thrown) . The 
 grenade indicator should have had a larger radius where it slowly gets transparent as you move 
 away from the grenade and more solid when you're near it. This way, you would know how close the 
 grenade is instead of running and then a grenade indictor pops up for a split second and you die 
 in an instant.
  
  Multiplayer is defiantly cool and where I've blown most of my hours of the game into (around level 
 50 as of now) . It is really well done and the perks are defiantly a fun addition to the game. I 
 can tell that they tried balancing most perks and weapons but not all of them are all that balanced. 
 For example eavesdropping is practically entirely useless on the PC where no one actually uses 
 the in-game voice chat for strategy. I find with the first tier of perks I just use bandolier (more 
 ammo) or frag x3 (more frag grenades) . The rank (xp) system is really cool and I love how it shows 
 you different challenges (think of them as achievements on the xbox 360 but for multiplayer) and 
 how many total kills/deaths/headshots etc you've gotten. Weapons, attachments for weapons (different 
 sights and grips) , camouflage for weapons and perks can be unlocked as you gain more xp which is 
 cool. There are still enough useful weapons you can get in the beginning in the game and getting 
 to level 10 is very easy. 
  
  That is to say multiplayer isn't perfect. There's no filter for hardcore servers (meaning you can't 
 really distinguish between hardcore and non-hardcore servers that well even with all the updates 
 they've included on the PC) , the grenade spamming can become a problem at a few points, and not 
 all the maps are that great. The biggest problem in my opinion though, is the spawning. You can 
 only spawn (unless everyone's dead where you will randomly spawn) next to your teammate. In other 
 words, if there's a horde of your teammates in one spot, you will spawn right next to them. This 
 sounds good at first but in reality causes problems. If your team is getting spawn killed, then 
 they will continue to get spawn killed because everyone will continue spawning next to each other. 
 You can also spawn right next to your teammate who is getting sneaked up by an enemy you will target 
 you right after he kills him. 
  
  The gameplay modes are somewhat on the shorter side and I'm not a fan of the sabotage or search 
 and destroy modes and find that I just play free for all, team deathmatch and domination. Also, 
 there aren't that many maps that I "love" unlike other multiplayer games that I play where they're 
 at least one or two maps that I really enjoy. I'm not a fan of the sniper maps and some of them 
 have a "oh just another map" feeling to them, although some I do enjoy more so than others (but 
 this is more of a personal opinion) .
  
  Overall this is probably my favourite Call of Duty game so far and that's saying a lot considering 
 how much I enjoyed the second one. The graphics look great even on low settings and scale very 
 well for the PC which is rare in today's multi-platform games. The sounds and music are right on 
 and fit the game well. The singleplayer is a blast and despite some minor downfalls in the multiplayer, 
 it still eats up your time. The move to WWII to modern times has defiantly been a smooth transition 
 and this is still the same great Call of Duty game from the past. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ausutorarisu
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 12, 2008 11:10 am PT
Review:  Call of Duty 2 captivated me, therefore I purchased Call of Duty 3 as the first game I bought for 
 the Xbox 360. When I knew Call of Duty 4 would not be a WWII shooter, I felt a tiny bit unhappy 
 but after I completed it I have changed my thought.
  
  Graphics 9/10
  The textures of the environments and characters are very detailed. Just play it to find out!
 
  
  Other aspects about sounds are good too but I ain't going deep into those. For me, graphics are 
 the most important thing to note besides gameplay.
  
  Gameplay 8/10
  I hate dying in games. Call of Duty 4 on normal is actually more punishing than its predecessors. 
 You still heal up when you stay in cover but it is appearantly much easier to get the screen glowing 
 in red. The whole game is very intense with many cinematic screens.
  My favourite level must be the first one on the ship. Somehow I prefer locations like cruises because 
 I seldom visit them. Like in Hitman Blood Money where the cruise level was marvelous.
  
  Vs. Crysis
  Much better than Crysis. The enemies can take cover like in Crysis but they look 
 better and are more aggressive. I don't need to mention how silly the aliens in Crysis are.
  Moreover, my PC which was high end last year can play COD4 with a ton of eye-candies on but Crysis 
 is bound by the mass environment and its so called physics system. I get barely playable framerates 
 with low graphical settings on the same resolution but I think realism deprived visual quality 
 and speed too much. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jacki04
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 11, 2008 3:17 pm PT
Review:  I played Call Of Duty since the first one has came out. That had a very classic, fun action. To 
 the extent Call Of Duty 2 was set in similar times and maps but they added realistic features like 
 you do not require health packs anymore to regain health, cursor became bigger when running... etc. 
 But Call Of Duty 4 has the basics and styles of call Of Duty 2 but there is a lot of change since 
 then. The developers Activision has completely changed the times from WW2 to Future times which 
 made the game 'just amazing.' Add new weapons and feathures were very good and the maps, and levels 
 were very different from the other two. Although the Singleplayer was short, it had a lot of intensity 
 in it. In olden times they ranged weapons from knifes and pistols to large heavy machine guns, 
 shotguns and snipers but in this they have made more modern guns and new features like lasers which 
 adds to the realism in modern age compared to WW2 age. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Play3r_One
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 11, 2008 11:25 am PT
Review:  Call of Duty 4 , now isn't this a long awaited game , specially because COD3 was only released 
 on the consoles. Well this anxiety is the reason why COD4 got so high rating, but situation is 
 a bit different.
  
  (Don't get me wrong) COD4 is a very addictive game, and enyojment to play, but it really does not 
 bring anything new for COD series, and still plays like the previous games with absolutely the 
 same kill and checkpoint gameplay. Biggest problem of COD4 is the fact this is still one of the 
 most unreallistic shooters on the PC, and absolutely has nothing to do with real life.
  
  I know what u think.
  
  Games don't have to be realistic to be good, their intention is to 
 be fun, well I have to disagree with this game because its unrealistic enviroment is not as great 
 thing as it is in UT games, here is a total boom. There is still a group of few soldiers with you 
 that beats entire war alone, like Rambo, only here we have 5-6 people. No matter how many enemies 
 you kill they just keep coming and we get'em all alone, craziest thing is if you dont do it right 
 (pattern) you will be doing it entire day.
  
  You and your company just can't die, plus weapons in this game are an absolute joke, firing a gun 
 does not have a smallest recoil, and weapons like they dont have any weight at all , you can even 
 fire rocket launcher like its a toy, these people obiviously have no idea about real battlefield, 
 its like they where born on a moon. With no gravity and physics, its gameplay is dull. 
  
  Positive thing is finally removing that damn WW2 from the game story and moving into the future, 
 but it is competely obsolete looking at how short this game is, pretty much nothing happens. COD4 
 can be completed in less then 5 hours so that is also a minus.
  
  I don't even want to start the debate about how much this game lacks technically and in gameplay 
 in comparison with other games of its time, games like great Crysis. COD4 is fun to play, but its 
 recommended to turn your brains out while doing it and just complete it without complaining, it 
 doesn't lasts long anyway, oh and that sniper mission was great. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: halo129
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 11, 2008 8:50 am PT
Review:  this game had amazing everything. The guns were blanced, to the point were if you were good, the 
 weapon would be good. The campain had lots of twists and turns in the plot, wich we usaully don't 
 see in a fps, and all the characters were loveable, but cpt. price is back, and he died in the 
 first call of duty, on the battleship mission, but he is theeeeeeee best facial hair peron in the 
 game. The multiplayer is the best part, i just can't say anything else about it, it is perfect, 
 i would like to see hackers be banned from every game, but if you can beat them, your a good player. 
 I liked the camo, and the upgrades, i would like to see the ACOG scope upgraded, it isn't all that 
 good, but the perks are awesome, just because someone has different perks than you, doesn't mean 
 that they are noobs, it is just a different fighting style, wich, i have never seen anyone with 
 the same perks, and upgrades, and camos as me, wich tells us that there are unlimited options to 
 your classes. The maps are good, though some of them need to be balanced between snipers, and closer 
 ranged weapons, but overall, shipment, and crossfire are the best.
  
  If you see DaCandyMan or JJ online, just say "Sup saw the review" 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Neloy
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 11, 2008 5:55 am PT
Review:  I would rather say Call of Duty 4 is way better than Halo 3 in every aspects, except the multiplayer. 
 The multiplayer section of Call of Duty 4, although, is not better than Halo 3 but it still packs 
 the punch and is enough for players to play for countless of hours. The campaign mode is outright 
 awesome. The campaign itself proves COD4 that it is the best in series. This is one game that you 
 can actually feel that you are in a war zone especially when you play in veteran mode. Its like 
 you have to be active in every part of the campaign and expect anything anytime that will make 
 the gameplay even more challenging. Infinity Ward made a clever decision of shifting the timeline 
 from World War II to modern warfare. The plot in the game is also excellent with some twists around. 
 Graphics and sounds are outstanding. The game is must have for both fans and non-fans. This is 
 what FPS should be. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: yellowzelda
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 6, 2008 3:29 pm PT
Review:  Well I realy like this game it has great grapihics and an exelents sound efects, the campain mode 
 is a little to short but it still is great. The shadows and enviroment are really really nice, 
 it does not has CRYSIS graphics but it has nice visuals. The multyplayer is perfect, for me this 
 game has the best multyplayer, it is better than gears of war and halo multyplayer. For me an almost 
 perfect game, another thing I loved were the weapons, there ara alot of differents weapons, GREAT 
 GAME!!!!! The story is really good, it has alot of elements that mekes it great, for me it should 
 be the second best game of the year after mario galaxy. AWESOME AND INCREDIBLE GAME. COD 2 was 
 very good but the 4 is way more better. For me the best version is the PS3 version but the PC version 
 is also great, I love the fact that you can get promoted in multyplayer. The difficulty is just 
 right, and the artificial inteligence is perfect, for me is way more better than Gears of War or 
 Halo 3. Perfect Game!!!!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Stealthbr
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 5, 2008 12:40 pm PT
Review:  CoD4 is indeed one of the best games I own for the PC. Everything in this game is well polished 
 and the game plays very nicely.
  
  System used: 8800GTX, 680i SLi, E6600, Dominator RAM 800mhz.
  
  Storyline & Singleplayer: The 
 story mode in CoD4 is amazing and filled with terrific moments that makes it unforgettable. It 
 also adds a lot of replayability since the single player is so fun and exciting. The sniper mission 
 is no doubt about it one of the most amazing missions in any game. Some might say the story mode 
 was to short but I found it to be good. I have to say I did not like the level: Heat. Great ending 
 also! Score: 9.5
  
  Multiplayer: CoD4 has a lot to offer in its multiplayer. Choose from several different cool looking 
 guns, attachments, and perks allows you to play the game your way. Some bad things about MP though 
 is the fact that some maps are just too small and cause balancing and spamming issues. Also, the 
 ability to modify your class only at the end of rounds can get pretty frustrating. Overall though, 
 the MP of CoD4 has provided me with a lot of fun. Score: 8.5
  
  Graphics: CoD4 looks very nice. The visuals do not come close to Crysis but they are still enjoyable 
 and pleasing to the eye. Also, in CoD4 I get pretty damn smooth FPS which makes it a lot more playable. 
 I love how the players can really blend in with their environment in this game. Weather effects 
 and particle effects are also done nicely. Score: 9
  
  Sound: Each gun sounds great and unique. Music is also done very nicely in this game. There are 
 some sound bugs I have encountered in MP though. Score: 9.5
  
  Overall, CoD4 is a most own for FPS fans and a great game all together. Its MP might have its frustrating 
 moments but they can easily be overshadowed by the quality of this game. Final score: 9 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nickblah42
Rating: 2
Date: Mar 4, 2008 7:05 pm PT
Review:  I honestly don't know how this game could get a 9.0 from gamespot (aside from the well-publicized 
 bias for sponsors) ; it's just not fun. The graphics are really nice, and the story is engaging 
 with interesting plot points, but the gameplay is just poor, and the realism is lacking.
  
  I'll start with the realism. If you're not familiar with COD, there's basically an endless stream 
 of bad guys while you run forward through enemy fire to get to checkpoints... that's the basic 
 gameply. While the works pretty well in mideval combat through World War II, where tactics were 
 an afterthought and soldiers were expendable, it really doesn't make sense for small groups of 
 elite special forces to be open-charging thousands of bad guys firing at them. Yet, that's what 
 you do... over and over and over, typically with lots of loading when they get lucky shots in and 
 you keel over. There are other examples (running through open areas in camo suits and having 20+ 
 enemy soldiers not notice) , but you get the idea. But hey, it's a video game, it's not supposed 
 to be realistic, right?
  
  At least the gameplay should be fun? Well, it's not, unless you enjoy things like timing key presses 
 to correspond to a particular point in a graphic sequence repeatedly, and if you're a split-second 
 off on any key press you reload to the last checkpoint (the idiotic attack dog mini-game) . Or probing 
 new areas with the die-and-reload-checkpoint method. Or figuring out there's a guy respawned in 
 the area you just cleared when he shoots you in the back of the head and puts you back before you 
 cleared the area.
  
  Seriously, this would be a great game if only judged by the graphics, sound, and plot, which are 
 all well-done. For me, though, I'd take a fun game over any of those, and although COD4 has an 
 A in all the aforementioned categories, it gets an F in fun, which makes it a bad game, no matter 
 how much the company sponsors gamespot. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Iloveconnie
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 4, 2008 1:03 am PT
Review:  What an amazing first person shooter, Infinity Ward comes back and makes us forget all about the 
 downfalls of Treyarch. If you own a 360 or PS3 and have a garbage to low-end computer then just 
 get it for one of those platforms. However, everyone knows that if you have the hardware to support 
 gaming, it looks phenomenal. 
  This is a game that captivates you throughout the whole singleplayer campaign, taking you through 
 some very different situations so as not to get stale. Short and sweet is how singleplayer can 
 be described, and this is one of Call of Duty 4's only downfalls, it is simply too short. However, 
 you'll forget about that pretty quick once you make your way online and discover just how deep 
 it is. The game rewards players who play a lot by offering a level system that unlocks guns at 
 certain levels and has goals that offer you more experience points once you reach them such as 
 getting 150 kills with a certain gun. I do not usually find myself so engaged in an online shooter, 
 but this had me hooked from the moment i stepped online, and I hardly ever get frustrated as the 
 kills come easier than other games (this isn't a game to be taken extremely seriously like say 
 Counter-Strike 1.6, it simply is a good casual time) . 
  From time to time however you will find some frustrating elements, such as being hit by a bombing 
 run only to respawn in the path of yet another bombing run, or to be continually lit up by the 
 same chopper (These abilities can be used once the player gets a 5/7 kill streak) . However, there 
 arent many bad things to say about this visually stunning game, and I believe it to be well worth 
 the $49.99 CDN price tag. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CoD4Rox
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 4, 2008 12:24 am PT
Review:  Call of Duty 4: Modern Warfare is an amazing multiplayer first-person shooter with a great but 
 brief single-player campaign with the visual chops to make it a standout shooter in an era filled 
 with seemingly dozens of standout shooters.
  
  The real down side is that the single-player is almost shockingly short. Raising the challenge 
 simply detracts the amount of fun you experience, as it makes the enemies frustratingly deadly
 
  
  The game tells its story from multiple perspectives. The action in the campaign is usually very 
 straightforward. You have a compass at the bottom of your screen, and the direction of your current 
 objective is very plainly marked. 
  
  But getting from point A to point B is never as simple as running in a straight line, as you'll 
 be conducting full-scale assaults in Middle Eastern countries by moving from house to house, taking 
 out what seems like a never-ending stream of enemy troops along the way that lets your adrenalin 
 pumping.. 
  
  You'll also get an opportunity to raid Russian farmhouses in search of terrorist leaders, disguise 
 yourself as the enemy, and, in one sequence, don a brushlike ghillie suit and crawl through the 
 brush as enemy troops and tanks roll right past you. It's a breathtaking moment in a campaign filled 
 with breathtaking moments. 
  
  Unfortunately, it's about half as long as the average shooter, and there are plenty of sequences 
 where you wish there were just one or two more hills to take
  
  The Goodies:
  
  Amazing sequel to CoD
  Gritty sound effects
  Tons of great surprises
  Outstanding gameplay
 
  Competitive multiplayer
  Hooks you in at the first moment
  Realistic graphics (Almost on par with Crysis)
  
  The Badies:
  
  Way too short campaign
 
  Multiplayer gets repititve after a while
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: zHELLDOG
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 2, 2008 5:53 pm PT
Review:  
  Wow. Just wow. This game is awesome. Call of Duty 4 is one of the better shooters I've played on 
 the pc to date. The storyline is realistic and is imersive. Seems like something that could happen 
 today. The graphics are easy on the eyes (if you have the best graphics cards and processors, which 
 I do) . The sound quality is great. And the gameplay is fun and requires you to use your head a 
 little bit. Their is alot of variety in weapons. 
  
  Playing this game makes you wish that Activision had gotten Infinity Ward to create Call of Duty 
 3 instead of Treyarch. I would have had a much better experience with it if that were the case.
 
  
  The music score and other tracks on the game are great. And for some reason, it kind of reminds 
 me of the first call of duty (which is my all time favorite game) .
  
  Bottom line, Call of Duty 4 is one of the best shooters on the pc, and I will be waiting is suspense 
 for Call of Duty 5 (if Infinity Ward makes it) .
  
  Graphics:9/10
  Sound:10/10
  Gameplay:11/10
  Overall score: 10.5! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zizo201085
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 2, 2008 1:55 pm PT
Review:  thanks for the best game i have seen until now please we want more exitting missions, i played it 
 three time in arow there is no game you can compare wiht call of duty 4 (modern warfare.
  let's play it online with it's lovers no one saw it and can't leave it with out game over.
  If 
 you liked the original Call of Duty, then you're sure to enjoy the sequel, which stays true to 
 the strengths of its predecessor.
  It's time to save Europe from the Nazi war machine yet again! GameSpot's game guide has a complete 
 walkthrough and plenty of tips for your online play, as well!.
  You won't be participating in these forays alone; far from it. In every setting you'll be surrounded 
 by what seems like dozens of soldiers, both friends and foes, who move and act in a realistic fashion. 
 Lots of your artificially intelligent mates will die by your side, along with the dozens of enemy 
 soldiers you kill, but more will come in from the rear echelons to take their place. The designers 
 often do a good job of reminding you that the war isn't just the infantry skirmish in which you're 
 fighting. From time to time you'll see planes engaged in dogfights flying overhead, or when you 
 complete an objective of capturing a German harbor, you'll call in a naval strike and see enemy 
 merchant ships being sunk at the docks 
::::::

::::::
UserName: scetchy
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 28, 2008 12:30 pm PT
Review:  COD4 is an exceptionally tight, if surprisingly short-lived singleplayer game, with an engrossing 
 multiplayer mode that easily contends Halo 3's crown. On the graphics side of things, this is probably 
 the best FPS released on the new consoles to date. First and foremost, it runs at a near-flawless 
 sixty frames per second, something Infinity Ward quite rightly set as a development priority from 
 the get-go. The speed of the action is so relentless, that anything less than sixty would have 
 crippled the experience. It's a visual standard that not even Orange Box or Halo 3 could manage 
 on console, and the result is nothing short of stunning.
  Exellent graphics
  Exellent gameplay
  But campaign is too short i supose. Recommend you to play on HD Tv for maximum 
 effect. 
  You must play it, to know what i mean =) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: crisissuit3
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 28, 2008 7:30 am PT
Review:  the call of duty series has always been about world war 2 and since that market has been soaked 
 up. infinity ward made a bold attempt to move into modern ages. a smart move.
  
  the graphics on this game are amazing. you can see a shine on the guns. ragdoll effect are always 
 cool, explosions look beautiful. the detail on the mens faces and uniforms are extremely accurate 
 and all the animations. even sprinting looks life like.
  
  Call of duty 4 has put in 2 intresting mechanics. one is that when you fire from the hip. your 
 going to miss. so they kind of force you to look down the sights for more accurate shots. i also 
 love how if you have a strong gun or perk you can shoot through walls and kill a guy on the other 
 side.
  
  the levels are very linear since a small fence seems to block a 5 foot man. and the physics are 
 very... low since only small cans and such will move. the AI is very life like since they kind 
 of walk around on patrol scripted or not. 
  
  this game also seems real since your not the only guy running out and saving the day since your 
 allies will come in and get plenty of kills in.
  
  the multiplayer is just mind blowing. it is fast pace and so intense you will sometimes jump out 
 of your seat when a guy comes up behind you.
  
  the aghiles suit is cool since you can hide in plain sight and with all the perks you can get and 
 new weapons and skins. gives the multiplayer plenty of replay value.
  
  there are also a whole bunch of different modes which are all very cool.
  
  thought the story 
 may be shot so much happens and it keeps you intrested you can easily forget it.
  
  all in all. online and offline are amazing and if your a hardcore fps gamer and you dont have this 
 game.
  
  you should be ashamed of yourself. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Minion_of_Jrock
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 27, 2008 5:47 pm PT
Review:  Call of Duty 4 is one of the best they have come out with so far, never thought they could make 
 it looks as good as this one turned out to be. Graphics amazed me so much that I couldn't put the 
 controller down. I got hooked on C. o. D since the first game and have loved every one of them but 
 they one topped them all.
  
  The weapons are great in this one and it makes it even more enjoyable since it so close to our 
 time now. Don't get me wrong, I loved the World War stores in the past games, they gave a certain 
 feel to the game but this one is different we are dealing with the kinds of things they go through 
 in the game now and everyone should see and experience it even if its not exactly what its really 
 like. 
  
  If you really sit back and watch the characters in the game look so life like in the game, from 
 the sweat on their face to the detail on their uniforms, everything is to the T I believe. 
  
  The one thing that let me down a little was how short the game was and how fast I managed to 
 be it, I didn't have the game for one day and I beat it.... of course I never put the remote down 
 because it was so additive. I think that the story could of been a little longer, maybe put another 
 form of the military in there to throw it up a little or have one more character that you were 
 supposed to embody. 
  
  I gave this a 10 out of 10 because this game just blew me away, though it had some faults here 
 and there I over looked them by playing the game over and over until I couldn't stand it anymore.
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: mariotonna
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 27, 2008 4:06 am PT
Review:  CoD4 has one of the most immersive single-payer campaigns I've ever seen in an FPS. Although a 
 little short, there's NEVER a dull moment.
  
  You're constantly in the thick of combat (USMC) or carrying out stealthy operations (SAS) and the 
 friendly AI really makes you feel part of a proper military squadron complete with technical jargon 
 ("Tango down", "Forward squadron, on me.")
  
  I've found that after playing Halo 3 for a few hours, CoD4 is always a breath of fresh air. You 
 feel that there's a real tactical element to your missions; Try playing the game on veteran and 
 leaving cover for more than 3 seconds... see how long you can survive.
  
  Leaving single player behind, the multiplayer is even MORE addictive. There's something about it 
 that draws you back, match after match.
  
  Maybe it's something to do with the amount of unlockables which keeps you going or the diverse 
 number of gameplay modes. When you think about it though, it always comes down to the tactical 
 gameplay we love from the campaign mode. Again, play multiplayer like it's Halo 3 and feel free 
 to have your arse truly kicked straight away. Play more conservatively and you'll find you can 
 rack up a lot more kills.
  
  All in all, CoD4 is a fantastic game and one where you can expect the online community to be active 
 for years to come. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: The__MCP
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 6, 2008 10:46 am PT
Review:  IMO, the Call of Duty series has always been a little bit overrated. The name of the game is a 
 short, sweet, heavily scripted singleplayer campaign, and a heavy grenade online game. (Or as the 
 gaming vets call it, a nade fest!) If that's what you like, then pick up COD4 now, because it's 
 more of the same, only with a modern warfare theme now. If you're a PC veteran who can be discriminatory 
 with your shooter tastes, then read on.
  
  I'll start with the online game first, because I think any true PC first-person shooter gamer usually 
 skips the singleplayer campaign and goes straight to where the real competition is -- ONLINE! At 
 first, I was impressed! And you will be too! I think the coolest aspect of COD4 online is the rank 
 system. You can't start with any weapon or skill. As you kill more people, win more matches, win 
 more challenges, you gradually unlock different weapons, weapons upgrades, inventory, and most 
 important... skills! These perks can be anything from longer sniper breaths, more frag grenades, 
 better scopes on your rifle, new camouflage patterns on your rifle, double weapon ability, and 
 more... they are quite creative and these added with your rank that increases from Priveate all 
 the way up to a 5-Star-General give you a sense of entitlement over the noobs. 
  
  Having said all that, you'll soon realize that the online game is somewhat shallow. I think the 
 biggest problem with COD4 is that it was designed to be an XBOX 360 shooter first, not a PC shooter. 
 The official maps are all EXTREMELY SMALL! You'll be lucky to find servers with 32+ players, and 
 when you do find them, you can easily get frustrated as you realize the map is a grenade fest or 
 noobtube fest (the rocket launchers attached to assault rifles) because both spawn points are so 
 close. Very few game modes eagerly encourage teamwork, with maybe search & destroy the only one 
 that truly captures the teamwork atmosphere of a great shooter. (That's where you take a briefcase 
 to Target A or Target B and set the bomb.) Most online games are just shoot 'em up fests with bunny-hoppers 
 everywhere and friendly fire turned off. Very little tactical realism in this shooter, and little 
 of the avid teamwork you'll find in some of the more "arcadish" shooters like Wolfenstein and Team 
 Fortress.
  
  Some of the skills and perks of online play can be downright annoying. For instance, earn a certain 
 amount of kills in a game and you're granted a free airstrike or helicopter attack. These can be 
 abused and abused... and then... abused! Some people will save their airstrikes for the next game, 
 and bombard your spawn point like crazy at the beginning of the next game. Another annoying skill 
 is the martyr skill that allows you to drop a live grenade after dying. Play on a map with a bunch 
 of people with this skill, and you won't last long, no matter how many skillz you have. Basically, 
 like I said, this game was meant more for the console crowd. Short, very firepower intense, less 
 aim skillz, and small maps.
  
  The mods for this game aren't as impressive as other shooters although they're slowly growing. 
 I am a bit disappointed that more large persistent servers don't have custom maps, but as long 
 as people don't get bored quickly (which is a danger with this game) , hopefully there will be some 
 better free mod content. There is a zombie mod available although it needs a lot of work, it's 
 not nearly as smooth as the Counter-Strike version. There's some cool "Sniper Only" map mods, and 
 a few people who have tried to create a more tactical & realistic COD4 mod. Some people have even 
 recreated COD2 maps for COD4, but other than that, most online games are still just the official 
 maps and gameplay.
  
  The singleplayer campaign is typical COD play. Like I said: short, sweet & heavily scripted. If 
 you really dig following the orders of your AI companions, you'll get a kick out of the SP campaign. 
 If you're like me, and prefer to play it the same way you would approach an online game, you might 
 find it a little annoying as enemy waypoints are triggered in bizarre situations. I prefer the 
 online play, and if you don't play online, you probably want to wait for a big price drop, because 
 singleplayer is too short to justify a new $50 price tag. 
  
  I have a lot of negative things to say about this game, so you would think I would score it low. 
 Maybe I'm too much of a glass-half-empty person but I give it a 9.0 because I keep coming back 
 to online play. I have yet to complete the offline campaign but I've been addicted to online play 
 for several months now. Time will tell if it enjoys the same lifespan of a Half-Life, Battlefield 
 or Wolfenstein. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: doctor_kaz
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 26, 2008 10:40 am PT
Review:  I am not a huge fan of games where you pay $50 for a 6-8 hour experience, but if there is one game 
 that gets this formula right, it might be Call of Duty 4. It is one short-lived but incredibly 
 thrill-packed ride. This game is relentlessly and perfectly paced, and it packs more adrenaline-pumping 
 action into its short campaign than a lot of games can conjure up in twice the time. The level 
 design is superb, and it has the best and most mind-blowing scripted events of any game in years. 
 Even if you are not into the multiplayer aspect of the game, the single player is as good as it 
 gets.
  
  The previous Call of Duty games have taken place during World War 2. The fourth version of the 
 series finally departs from that overused setting and brings the battle to the modern day (more 
 like a near future actually) . It may sound cosmetic, but the change in setting makes a huge difference. 
 The game just feels different. Fighting modern-day extremists is a refreshing change from fighting 
 Nazis for the 1000th time. The new collection of weapons is another nice change. The mixture of 
 shotguns, submachineguns, and automatic rifles is more powerful and more fun to use than the old 
 collection of M-1's and Tommy Guns from the previous games.
  
  In the meantime, Call of Duty 4 keeps everything that was great in Call of Duty 2, and then takes 
 it to new levels. It is an extreme opposite to the slow-paced, tactical shooters that have become 
 somewhat popular lately. It is not a game that boasts "realism". Battles are epic and intense. 
 Enemies populate maps by the dozens, rushing at you in waves. They empty clip after clip of ammunition 
 at you and shower you with grenades. To survive battles, you have to do the same, all while you 
 find good cover points. After you have mowed down a bunch of enemies, you advance and shoot some 
 more. The familiar mechanics of aiming down the sights, quickly regenerating health, and the grenade 
 danger indicator all return. Checkpoints are spaced nearly perfect, so that the difficulty is never 
 too harsh or two easy. The pacing is wonderful. There is not a tedious moment or a bad level in 
 the game. The mechanics aren't very complex, but the excellent level design and constant challenge 
 make sure that they always work.
  
  Occasionally, the game breaks up the pace with a rail shooter sequence. They are brief and very 
 well done. This is especially true of the level where you get to man the guns on a C-130. The entire 
 level takes place from thousands of feet up on in infrared camera, like the videos that became 
 famous during the 1991 Gulf War. Blowing up enemy vehicles and mowing down little dots on the screen 
 with a high caliber machine gun makes it one of the most fun rail shooter sequences ever made.
 
  
  Call of Duty 4 takes brilliance in sound design to new levels. Every level is a symphony of chaos. 
 All around you are explosions, gunshots, chatter, bullets whizzing past your head, and battle cries 
 from your enemies and teammates. At the end of each mission, when you have cleared out all the 
 enemies, the battlefield is an eerie quiet. Everything in the audio seems almost perfectly engineered. 
 Nothing is out of place. The weapons, in particular, sound fantastic, and each one distinctive. 
 The feedback that you get from firing a weapon is intensely satisfying. It is a major reason why 
 Infinity Ward's games, especially this one, are so immersive.
  
  The presentation in Call of Duty 4 is top-notch all around. A static screenshot of the game looks 
 pretty good, but it looks even better in motion. Explosions constantly rock the landscape and the 
 visuals sport excellent particle effects, like the smoke trails from rockets. If there is an active 
 smoke grenade nearby, you might not see an enemy who is five feet away from you. By the end of 
 a big battle, the area is almost always covered in smoke. This game has the best smoke that you 
 have ever seen in a first person shooter. The character models and animations are all top-notch 
 too.
  
  The best part of the game's presentation is the addition of crazy, over-the-top scripted events 
 that rival what anyone else has done in a first person shooter. Huge crashes, massive explosions, 
 close brushes with death  they are all there. You might be manning the machine gun of a chopper 
 one minute, and then getting shot down and crawling from the wreckage the next. Call of Duty 4 
 adds a simple story in this manner, and it fits the game very well. I won't spoil any of the big 
 events for you, but suffice it to say, a lot of them will knock you out of your chair.
  
  Call of Duty 4 is immensely fun. Its only significant flaw is that the single player is too short. 
 Way too short. Depending upon the difficult level and your play style, it is possible to finish 
 this game in a couple of afternoons. It is some of the most fun that you will have playing a shooter, 
 but it is still disappointing that Infinity Ward couldn't make it longer. The game's linearity 
 makes the replay value low. If value is important to you and you are only interested in the single 
 player, then you might want to wait until there is a price drop to buy the game. It is a lot like 
 paying $30 for a delicious hamburger in a fancy restaurant  it might be the best burger that you 
 have ever eaten, but the fact that you paid $30 still kind of hurts. Even taking into account the 
 short single player length though, There is no denying that Call of Duty 4 is a great game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: osavaoki
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 26, 2008 9:35 am PT
Review:  With incredible realism, this is a very amazing first-person game, but still the buildings are 
 not destroyed with bombs.
  This is a very real, amazing first-persoon game, the realism is remarkable and the objectives in 
 the campaign are real challenges, still, the buildings qre indestructible, but the sniping mode 
 and the weapons display are amazing! truly a incredible game!
  the sprinting, the cover challengs, pss just under enemy's noses real take your breath out! but 
 the originality are not so good, the enemies are always Arabs, Asiatics or Russians.
  It should do something new, just to get a better score.
  It's just like any other American game, 
 like Battlefield that the west are the good guys and the east are the fanatics using strong to 
 get justice.
  Half-life 2 on this point of view, is better, because presents a new in-game perspective, where 
 there is no "east and west" or "Americans and Arabs"
  It's the people against the tiranny of the govern. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: greatbigmouth
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 26, 2008 6:44 am PT
Review:  After finishing Call of Duty 4: Modern Warfare, I sighed and said "Wow, what a game". If you haven't 
 added it to your collection yet, your life is simply not complete. 
  
  The graphics are stunning, rendering shadows and sun glare as if it's the real thing. Characters 
 look amazingly good, and the textures are smooth and sharp. The maps are also stunningly detailed. 
 Open fields, grass, plants, rocks and partially broken buildings all add up to a breathtaking visual 
 appearance. 
  
  Gameplay is excellent and very addictive, although at some point you may feel as though you've 
 had enough for one day, because of the highly intense moments that every mission brings. Enemies 
 pop up from around corners, grenades explode in front of you, mortars fly past you without warning, 
 and if you don't run for cover, you might just lose your head. The action is non-stop, with one 
 or two missions being a little more quiet, like the sniper missions. Despite all the action, you'll 
 never get bored with it, since every mission brings new challenges. 
  
  The game offers a realistic storyline, where in the end you have to prevent the destruction of 
 the Eastern seaboard from nuclear missiles. It's a well-written storyline, and has quite a dramatic 
 ending, but that I won't spoil for you. ; ) The music add to the excellence. It's very similar 
 to that of an Action movie, which gives you that extra feeling and in some scenes send a cold shiver 
 down your spine. Great soundtrack. 
  
  The only bad remark I can give Call of Duty 4 is the fact that the single-player campaign is very 
 short. If you play non-stop, you can finish it in a flash. Luckily the excellent gameplay and breathtaking 
 overall presentation make up for the short campaign. 
  
  To round things up, Call of Duty 4: Modern Warfare is a stunning game and I recommend it for any 
 FPS fanatic. Even if you're not into shooters, this game will probably make you change your mind. 
 Go out and buy it, your money will be well spent. Great graphics, great soundtrack, great storyline, 
 great presentation - it all comes together to create one excellent experience. 
  
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: mechwarrior_bob
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 25, 2008 2:15 pm PT
Review:  This game is simply amazing. The graphics look and run great on even lower end PCs. The single 
 player campaign has it's moments and is pretty smooth throughout. Some references can be noticed 
 if looked upon close enough (Black Hawk Down, obviously war on terror) . I finished the singleplayer 
 in about 3-5 hours and really enjoyed it but the best part is multiplayer. From the create-a-class 
 to calling a airstrike this game has (almost) everything you could want from a infantry-based shooter. 
 The create-a-class is simple and it gives you what you really want. Perks are well implimented 
 meaning no fight is the same. There are a really good selection of weapons and customizations to 
 weapons which makes everyones tactics unique. This game is definitely the finest in the series 
 and though it's mainly on consoles would be a excellent game to PC gamers everywhere. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: katana18
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 25, 2008 6:25 am PT
Review:  If you haven't played a game that just felt so *right* as if it was tailored to fit you, you have 
 not played CoD 4..
  
  First, I'll start on the graphics, sound & interface issues. There are none. I'm using a 8800GTS 
 320MB, and an X-Fi Gamer, and from the first time I launched this game until it's climatic ending, 
 I experienced zero technical issues. I've played all 3 of the previous Call of Duty games for the 
 PC, so that's what I'll be comparing this game to.
  
  PCGamer has commented that the story in this game is remarkably similar to a particular season 
 of 24. Well, I'm sure it's one of the earlier seasons because I don't remember it too well. But 
 whether or not the storyline is original, it was executed extremely well. In fact, I won't comment 
 much more on the single player as it spoils the fun. Suffice to say, it's everything that you've 
 seen in the trailers, and a little more.
  
  The only gripe I have with the single player game is that it could have been better. There were 
 certain missions that displayed a certain amount of creativity, such as the introduction of ghillie 
 suits, and the intro level that really makes you go "wow!". In short, the CoD4 team could have 
 thrown out most of the conventional FPS corridor combat, and replace it with more innovations. 
 And of course, the difficulty settings are still primitive, and anything above regular is unplayable 
 unless you have infinite patience. They should have adopted the Crysis difficulty settings for 
 maximum enjoyment.
  
  On the other hand, the multiplayer is where all the action is. In my part of the world, I can only 
 choose between GamingSA servers, or local Singapore/Malaysian servers. The total number of servers 
 with feasible response times are about a dozen for me. Thus, I don't have many choices when it 
 comes to playing online.
  
  It took me less than 40 hours of playing time to unlock all the *easy* achievements and reach the 
 maximum rank. I would recommend everyone to experience the multiplayer experience because it's 
 just so diverse. You have the classic TDM, Search & Destroy (my personal favorite) , Sabotage (a 
 different version of S&D) , and other modes, with the option to turn on hardcore for all.
  
  What really seals the deal is the amount of customization the game gives you in multiplayer. All 
 of your weapons are designed according to you, and CoD4 has taken the initiative to introduce the 
 much-raved perks. All of them have their usefulness, and it's such pain to choose only 3.
  
  To summarise everything, this game is a must buy & must try. And if for some reason you find 
 it unsatisfying, either you're not playing it right, or you can sell it off 2nd hand. See you in 
 GamingSA. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: picklesrocks
Rating: 7.5
Date: Feb 23, 2008 10:10 am PT
Review:  Call of duty 4 or just COD4 to other is the next in the call of duty series which is set in the 
 present not world war 2, the campaine will take you about 6 hours to complete as it takes no real 
 skill whatsover with just running and gunning down hoards of enemies with no real challange, unless 
 if your on veteren of course then your going to have to think seriosly about tactics and what you 
 do. Overalll the single player i admit could have been a lot better but gets cut short as you can 
 tell they were struggling for a story, now we move onto one of the games highlights, the multiplayer.
 
  COD 4 can be played online or offline in either 4 player split screen or 24 player online. The 
 multiplayer only get good online as you can customize your equiptment and classes in team deathmatch, 
 deathmatch, CTF and many MANY more.
  overall this game is good but mostly an online game as the single player story doesnt give you 
 much. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bgrngod
Rating: 6.5
Date: Feb 23, 2008 12:59 am PT
Review:  CoD4 is a pretty decent game. Classic? Not be a long stretch. The game has way too many problems 
 to go down in history as one of the great ones. In fact, it will probably be quickly forgotten 
 by the end of '08.
  
  For starters, the game does look great. The graphics are pretty sharp and the developers did a 
 great job of modelling the weapons and uniforms to a realistic level. The environments, especially 
 the urban ones, look outstanding. It feels like you are walking around a wartorn city. The animation 
 is pretty good, although watching the same 3-4 death animations in multiplayer gets pretty dull. 
 They could have at least mixed in some physics to go along with the death animations.
  
  The best part about the graphics would be how well the game scales on older hardware. I am still 
 running 8xAGP and the game has a steady framerate with most of the bells and whistles cranked up. 
 This is quite impressive.
  
  The audio is also really well done, except for the voice acting. The sounds of explosions, helicopters 
 flying over head, grenades, and all the weapons are really well done. Each weapon has a somewhat 
 different sound to it that you would expect to come from that particular type of gun. I'm no expert 
 on what guns sound like, but nothing seems out of place so it's all thumbs up on this aspect.
 
  
  The voice acting is just annoying. The "british" squad leader has a horrible accent. I've heard 
 Texans do better english accents before.
  
  The single player campaign is a huge disapointment. It feels like watching a big budget movie with 
 crappy acting and a bad script. Everything about the story and cutscenes feels contrived and just 
 outlandish. The characters evoke zero emotion because of the ridiculous amount of "baditude" they 
 put off. Early on I really wanted to just shoot most of the secondary characters, but unfortunately 
 this results in a reload to last save point. Bummer.
  
  the opening sequence of the game is very similar to an intro movie that you would expect for a 
 big budget terrorist related flick. You get to sit in the backseat of a car and watch the driver 
 and passenger cruise around a middle eastern town, while a military force takes over the place. 
 At first this seems pretty cool, but then the painfully obvious scripting of it all starts to rear 
 it's head and by the end you just want it to be over with as soon as possible. It just seems a 
 bit too convenient that all of these particular events are happening at the exact moment you are 
 driving by. It's just wholely unbelievable.
  
  There are plenty of "in action" story sequences to keep the game moving along, but they feel half 
 baked. Burying a game in scripted scenes does not make for a compelling story. There are often 
 times in the game where what is going on in a cutscenes totally contradicts what may have happened 
 during game play elements. Like all the sudden, just for this one cutscene, your character is virtual 
 invisible to enemies 2 feet away. Specifically the level "All Guilly Up" where you run around in 
 one of those sniper costumes that looks like a bush. There is a very artificial sequence in the 
 middle of this level that just feels completely ridiculous and sucks almost all of the intensity 
 out of the game as it happens. I was sitting in my seat just shaking my head and the sheer stupidity 
 of it all.
  
  This game actually has never ending enemy spawns. That's right! A "realistic" military shooter 
 that will spawn enemies over and over and over until you cross the magic "stop the spawns" line. 
 This is how the game handles difficulty. There is basically no difficulty involved in trying to 
 hit an enemy since they just stand in front of you waiting to get hit. Instead, you get faced with 
 the "challenge" of having to shoot way more of them then could have possibly been hiding in that 
 building you are trying to capture. Again, more sheer stupidity.
  
  Another major downer to the single player is how little you actually have to do. Your teammates 
 do a lot of the shooting in this game, so you can often just sit back and wait for them to take 
 out a bunch of the enemies. After that just make a run for the next blind check point and you are 
 making progress. Even funnier then that is when your buddies take cover and get locked into a fire 
 fight with the enemy, yet manage to never die, or hit the enemies at all. These points are basically 
 instances for when the game is telling the player that now they actually are required to participate. 
 These moments are chained together artificially between moments of when your team is just mowing 
 them down. It feels like the game is basically babysitting you throughout the entire campaign. 
 "We're moving, we're moving, now we are shooting, we're moving again." The final result of this 
 is that even on the cranked up difficulty, the game is extremely easy.
  
  One of the biggest problems with the single player campaign is how it scales difficulty. Early 
 on you get to pick if you want "Normal" or the next step up. I almost always pick one step up from 
 the default in games because default has started to become the mode for the average joe. It seems 
 that this only means faster enemy respawns and a whole lot more "chaotic" mechanics chucked in 
 to keep you distracted. It basically sucks out what little fun may have been left.
  
  The biggest travesty of the campaign would easily be the final sequence. I won't ruin it for you 
 too much, but if you have played any of the other CoD games then you have played this sequence 
 at least 5 times before. It's getting old. In fact it got old years ago.
  
  The multiplayer is also a big problem with the game. It can be fun for awhile, and the level of 
 fun to be had is really going to depend on what settings the server you are on is using. There 
 is a popular "hardcore" mode which results in single bullets causing death really quickly. This 
 is the mode that everyone claims to be more realistic. Unfortunately it does nothing to adjust 
 other aspects of the multiplayer, such as healing. If you do manage to survive a bullet hit, you 
 will actually heal back up to full health (although there is no visible health bar, you will know 
 it when you see it) . This doesn't seam very hardcore to me.
  
  The biggest problem with the multiplayer is the piss poor netcode and hit detection. There are 
 some major lag issues between what you are seeing on your screen and where your enemy actually 
 is on their screen. I know this is a problem for almost all online shooters, but plenty of games 
 have fixed it and I full on expect that a game that gets this much attention for the multiplayer 
 would be one of them. Sadly it is not. If you are playing on a "killcam" server you will often 
 see how your enemy killed you. I have laughed out loud numerous times because of the discrepency 
 from what I saw on my screen and what the killcam ended up showing. Since what you see on your 
 screen is about half a second later then where someone is actually moving the game ends up boiling 
 down to who can take advantage of the lag the best instead of who is the better shooter.
  
  It happens quite often that you see an enemy and start to unload on them with your gun, only to 
 miss with every single one of the 20 bullets you launched there way and they end up getting you 
 first. However when you watch the killcam it seems that what they saw was you just standing there, 
 not shooting.
  
  The game's hit detection seems to be a big imaginary box around the targets. If anyone tries to 
 tell you this game has pixel perfect hit detection then they are just flat out lying. It is normal 
 to get headshots with a sniper riffle when you were aiming a foot behind someone. I've seen this 
 numerous times from sniper views. Evidentally the military uses guns that just need to be aimed 
 in the general direction of the enemy to kill them.
  
  Another big downer about the multiplayer is the amount of grenade spam that goes on. It's quite 
 normal to play an entire match and have every single one of your deaths come from a grenade, RPG, 
 or launched grenade. This is not fun. It never has been and it never will be. Nor is it realistic.
 
  
  The respawns for the multiplayer game are also quite ridiculously broken. You will often respawn 
 right in the middle of a bunch of enemies only to die immediately because, well you are standing 
 in the middle of a bunch of enemies. A few of the maps in particular are more prone to this, which 
 makes them very annoying. This doesn't happen nearly as often in the bigger urban maps. This may 
 be something that gets patch fixed later on, but I wouldn't count on it. If we are this far past 
 release and it hasn't been fixed yet then it probably won't be.
  
  I've played many online shooters over the years, and with most of them you can at least have fun 
 while you are loosing a game. That is not the case with CoD4. The only time the game is ever fun 
 online is when you are winning. It's difficult to figure out exactly why that is, but I just know 
 that I always find myself turning the game off when on a long loosing streak. Other online shooters 
 I keep on trucking because I am at least still having fun. Maybe it's because the entire entertainment 
 value for the multiplayer comes from winning and nothing else. The actual gameplay mechanics are 
 pretty much the same all the time. You will never see anything new happen after getting in at least 
 2-3 hours of the online play. There will be absolutely zero surprises memorable moments after this 
 point. You've seen it all already.
  
  The game mode options in the game are at least plentiful. My favorite one would be headquarters. 
 This is basically a "hold the moving point" mode that can be cool because of how it moves the action 
 around the map. Instead of just mindlessly running around shooting each other you have to actually 
 try and accomplish something. This mode can be a lot of fun sometimes. Most of the time you end 
 up with teammates that couldn't give have a crap and just want to shoot people. It's quite normal 
 to be surrounded by 5-6 teammates and be the only one capturing a control point because they keep 
 running off to go rack up kills. This isn't necessarily the game's fault, but it sure doesn't do 
 anything to try and promote teamwork over soloing.
  
  Unlockables. What a terrible idea. It was a big reason that Battlefield 2 was complete trash and 
 it brings CoD4 down just as much. The multiplayer has all kinds of unlockables, leveling up, and 
 "challenges" that attempt to make it last a bit longer. This is basically just pandering to all 
 the people that can't figure out how to have fun with the actual gameplay itself. All this means 
 is that you have to play for a stupid long time before getting on an even playing field with anyone 
 else. You are not dying because you suck. You are dying because you have a sucky weapon to use. 
 You might actually be pretty good.
  
  The single most aggrivating thing about CoD4 is that there are indeed good things going on with 
 it. I am super pissed that I hate this game as much as I do because at the same time I like so 
 much about it. Only the multiplayer however. The single player could have been completetly cut 
 out and I wouldn't have even flinched. It is just a total waste of time.
  
  Had Infinity Ward spent the time to fix all of the broken aspects about the game then this one 
 may have been elevated to "classic" status. Unfortunately they decided to just shove it out the 
 door in the form it is in, and have made no effort to fix it.
  
  Long story short, it's got a few great moments for the first few hours, but after awhile it just 
 falls flat on it's face.
  
  Nothing new to see, move along. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: megafeck
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 22, 2008 6:00 am PT
Review:  So, this game is short. Be forewarned. You'll maybe sink 8-10 hours max into the single player. 
 If you're not a multi-player kinda guy, you might be a bit irritated. Otherwise, you'll love it. 
 
  
  Look. 
  Simply put, this game looks amazing. The character modeling is maybe the best out there in terms 
 of FPS's. The look of the levels is ridiculously nice. Lots of detail on almost every element. 
 The cities and countries look almost lifelike. In addition, there are other levels that take a 
 different approach, such as the plane mission, where you shoot from several different cannons and 
 guns on a plane, so as to assist some ground troops to a rendezvous point. That level is in black 
 and white- thermal view. Another level of note is the sniper one. The combination of the shadows, 
 depth of view, and detailed textures (on tree trunks, grass, houses, etc.) is astonishing. Pure 
 wow throughout the game in terms of look. Beyond this, there is the element of blending. In many 
 games, the bad guys stand out like sore thumbs because they are separate from the background. COD4 
 does a great job of making them blend, so you always have to keep an eye out for the enemy, less 
 you miss a few. 
  
  Story. 
  As far as war shooters go (even shooters in general) the story is pretty good. There is a story 
 there, and while it's not winning any Oscars, it's more than the average war shooter produces. 
 Per usual of the COD games, you'll jump back and forth between characters. As such, you'll approach 
 levels in different ways, be it stealth or full on assault. 
  
  Gameplay. 
  Maybe the most important aspect of any game, COD4 does not fail here. You'll use several different 
 weapons, all with unique looks and uses. Sights vary from iron-sights to digital. Movement of the 
 character is affected by the gun he holds, so big guns weigh you down. As with most of these games, 
 there is gun-sway, meaning you never hold perfectly still when aiming. You can shoot from the hip 
 (less accurate) and when moving the sights become wider and less accurate. Or if you want to target 
 someone precisely, you can pull up the gun and aim down the sights. None of this is unusual at 
 this point really. The AI is pretty good. Bad guys are still a bit stupid and stay in one general 
 location, but they will move around some. They don't flank too often as I recall, and the paths 
 are relatively linear, so you can't either in most cases. Overall, this isn't a complete overhaul 
 of the war shooter genre, but alot has improved and been tweaked so as to provide a challenging 
 single player. 
  
  Production. 
  In terms of the production, the game is top notch. The voice acting is extremely believable, and 
 fits every character's look well. The sound design is exceptional. Unrivaled by most any other 
 shooter, this game makes you feel as though you're in a war. There's always fighting going on around 
 you, and the sound reflects it. Ricochets behind you, to your side, over your head, are plentiful 
 (and I'm playing on a stereo setup, not 5.1) . Much like the look, the sound has depth, and makes 
 you feel as if there is distant fighting at times, or alternatively that it's a quiet night and 
 your every footstep needs to be soft so as not to alert the enemy. Beyond this, every weapon sounds 
 unique and realistic. Movement is characterized by the sound of fatigues and equipment on your 
 body. To say the least... it's ridiculously good. 
  
  Summing It Up 
  In the end, while it's short, this is a must-have game. You're not gonna find anything this good 
 for a while, and let's be honest, you've got the time... don't you? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dozzpot
Rating: 7
Date: Feb 22, 2008 4:29 am PT
Review:  1. The SP game is way too short. I finished it in less than a day and as I only play SP, was that 
 really worth 25 / $50? No. Everyone raves about the MP game, that's fine but I don't play MP so 
 that's no good to me. Either make a game that caters properly to both SP and MP or own up and make 
 one or the other.
  2. I hate the health system in all but CoD1. On easier settings an enemy can unload a whole clip 
 into you and all you need to do is take cover for a few seconds and you are all better again. I 
 am not keen on health packs either but from this series nothing is better than beating CoD1 in 
 veteran mode i. e. without any healthpacks and being forced to get through a mission on one health 
 bar. Now that WAS exciting and very tense.
  3. I found no replay value in this game as the gameplay is let down by the re-spawning enemy. This 
 means that you have to push forward under fire to clear them out and stop them - totally unrealistic 
 and makes it a matter of luck rather than tactics whether you survive. It's also very linear and 
 there are barely any choices to make: L or R side of a building to run by is about it.
  
  That said, it is undoubtedly a fantastic piece of programming. It runs perfectly on high settings 
 on my humble 7600GT and is very pretty indeed. You can also see from the lack of massive and frequent 
 patches that it was well put together in the first place. There are also reminders in the basic 
 feel of the game that let you know you are playing a CoD game, which is nice.
  
  I am currently playing Hidden & Dangerous 2 - 5 years old but giving me more enjoyment than CoD4 
 as a bit more thought is required. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Baron_Kenobi
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 21, 2008 7:23 pm PT
Review:  If you listen to the hype, you could be led to believe that Call of Duty 4, Halo 3, and Bioshock 
 either are, or signal, the second coming of Christ. This is utter ridiculousness, and we shall 
 ignore them and proceed with the review with slightly less religious blasphemy. 
  
  Despite my previous comment, Call of Duty 4 is a great game. All of the Call of Duty games by Infinity 
 Ward have been. (Call of Duty, Call of Duty 2, Call of Duty 4) However, the campaign seems lackluster 
 compared to the campaigns of previous installments, and it seems to has replaced innovative and 
 fun mission design with good graphics. Not a great trade in my opinion. The plot of the campaign 
 seems contrived, and full of holes as well. Sort of a conspiracy theory that the weird guy in the 
 office contrives. Just my personal opinion. I do know people who liked it.
  
  Multiplayer is where the game really proves itself. The unlock system is fantastic, and puts previous 
 ones (Battlefield 2) to shame. It makes you want to keep playing, and makes you work for some of 
 the stranger ones. The map design is also phenomenal. While I have some issues with a few maps, 
 I can say that about any game, and love over half of them. I have played this a several LAN parties, 
 as well as on the Internet, and I find that I enjoy it more at the LANs, where we often only have 
 about 5 to 8 people, because it feels more personal and fun than it does online. Part of that is 
 that online causes me to become competitive, and get frustrated at times, where at a LAN, I am 
 relaxed and having fun.
  
  Overall, I feel that people are overrating the game, and making it out to be better than it is 
 simply because of the hype, and the fact that you are labeled as a loony if you mention any flaws 
 in the game, but it is still excellent, and a must have if you have a decent internet connection. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Fattyb12
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 21, 2008 4:33 pm PT
Review:  I don't have time to write a long review. Please just do yourself a favor and buy this game. It's 
 worth 5x more than you pay for it.
  
  Best multiplayer experience to date.
  Over 17,000 Servers to join. That's right, SEVENTEEN THOUSAND SERVERS ONLINE.
  
  That means 
 you can live on the West Coast of the USA (Where gaming is not very popular) and you WILL HAVE 
 LOW-PING 20-40 Ping servers you can join. About 500+ of them.
  
  I live near Seattle, WA and gaming online has always been a problem. There are never any servers 
 to join. In Call of Duty 2 there was about 10 servers I could join before I started hitting the 
 100+ ping servers. That sucked. It made my gaming extremely limited, and always put me at a disadvantage 
 playing against players with 20-40 ping. Now that doesn't happen anymore!! 17,000 Servers and the 
 game just came out a few months ago!! By the end of the year you can expect over 20,000+ servers 
 to be online as the popularity for this game will only grow!
  
  10/10 Of course it's not perfect, but compared to all other games that are out in stores right 
 now, this second, (Crysis, Rainbow six vegas, Unreal 3, Conflict: Denied ops, Ghost Recon Advanced 
 1 & 2, Gears of War, and the many others, this game is at the top of that list. Therefore it deserves 
 10/10. That's how rankings should work. Not like these people who say, oh well it only gets a 9/10 
 because nothing is perfect, BS This is perfect, when compared to these other current games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ping5000
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 21, 2008 10:26 pm PT
Review:  Playing Call of Duty 4, it's hard not to get the feeling that this game is the game Infinity Ward 
 has been working towards to ever since its inception. Leaving WWII, leaving the history and leaving 
 an area of familiarity must've been like a 100-ton weight being lifted of their shoulders. No longer 
 does Infinity Ward have to conform to a set timeline that's set in stone; they can do whatever 
 the hell they want. Call of Duty 4: Modern Warfare is the game Infinity Ward has been wanting to 
 make since its first blockbuster debut and it really, really shows. Call of Duty 4: Modern Warfare 
 is Infinity Ward's magnum opus, and it's stunning.
  
  Admittedly, the shift to a modern setting isn't very fresh or even original, but what Infinity 
 Ward did for WWII shooters, they've done for shooters in a modern setting, which is a tremendously 
 awesome thing. The single-player narrative's fairly straight-forward; you mostly shift between 
 the perspectives of two soldiers, a US marine and a SAS soldier, and both sides are working towards 
 the goal of extinguishing a terrorist threat. It isn't the most original story in the world, but 
 it's presented so well and in such a raw, gritty fashion that it's easy to be drawn into it. Another 
 positive is that the campaign doesn't feel disjointed anymore, because past Call of Dutys had you 
 jumping from one Allied force to another, with little or no reason. The British and American forces 
 work together as a cohesive whole in Call of Duty 4, making the shifts between the two soldiers 
 natural and understandable. The narrative's also a lot less predictable, because WWII was one giant 
 spoiler to begin with. By taking off the cuffs of WWII, Call of Duty 4 doesn't hold back with the 
 dramatic twist and turns; you'll easily understand why this is the first Call of Duty game to earn 
 an M-rating. It's guaranteed some of the sequences will shock and leave you completely breathless. 
 The good guys aren't always going to be winners, and you'll have to play for yourself to figure 
 out why. Considering the war in Iraq, it's incredibly brave for Infinity Ward to push the envelope 
 like this, and it only benefits the game.
  
  As much as Call of Duty 4 benefits from the modern setting already, its gameplay receives an equal 
 amount of improvement and refinement. The single-player largely follows the formula established 
 in past Call of Dutys; you start with squad, get into some white knuckle firefights, trigger awesome 
 scripted sequences and then you're on to the next level. It's a formula that's always worked, but 
 Call of Duty 4 refines and hones the formula into an art form. The modern setting lets Infinity 
 let loose with practically everything. Firstly, the guns. They hold more ammo, some of the guns 
 have a secondary fire in way of a kick-ass grenade launcher and a lot of the guns now have laser-sights, 
 making it easier to shoot your tangos. The biggest change, however, is how you can shoot through 
 walls. Drywall, wood or anything that looks like it won't hold its own against a speeding bullet 
 won't provide ample cover for your adversaries, and instead, they'll get slaughtered if you let 
 loose. This is a great feature, and it drastically speeds up the pace of the game in general, because 
 waiting for Nazis to take a peek out behind their apple crates in the past games tended to be an 
 exercise in patience. An oddity with the bullet penetration's how it doesn't seem to affect you, 
 at least in the single-player mode. It does remove a lot of potential frustration, but at the same 
 time, it's a strange thing to see tracer rounds obviously hitting you, while it does nothing to 
 your health. 
  
  You even have stuff like nightvision, flashbangs, air strikes, bombing runs, claymores and other 
 various explosives to give you an upper hand over your enemies. Infinity Ward balances out your 
 strengths by propelling you into a lot of desperate situations. Practically every single mission 
 will leave you at a huge disadvantage in terms of numbers and your enemy knows this. They're smart; 
 they'll take advantage of cover, grenades are a constant and if they're given the chance, they'll 
 outflank you. Granted, they sometimes jump out on the open, making them easy targets, but they're 
 smart and convincing in general.
  
  Call of Duty 4's is also one of the best paced games of '07, if not ever. If there's one thing 
 that was tiresome about Call of Duty 2, it never shut up. The intensity was always cranked up to 
 11 and never faltered in that sense. It tended to get tiresome after awhile, and it seems Infinity 
 wised up with Call of Duty 4. Make no mistake, it's still an intense and heart-pounding game, but 
 it evokes the same reactions differently. Since you shift between two totally different soldier 
 types, the American missions tend to be the more traditional levels, while the British missions 
 tend to be much more covert. Instead of joining the fray head-on, you'll sometimes pick off enemies 
 with your rifle. The British mission, "All Ghillied Up" is a prime example of this, because it 
 requires you to line your shots up with a lot more precision than usual, making the entire mission 
 a tense and refreshing experience. The AC-130 mission also spices things up by letting you take 
 to the skies and man a deadly effective gun. It's an unsettling experience to be sure, because 
 all you're doing is raining down hell on unsuspecting terrorists while in the safety of the skies, 
 while your pilot utters lines like "Boom, you got 'em." in such a monotone fashion that it's hard 
 not to get a little uncomfortable.
  
  If there are a couple problems with the single-player, one of the obvious ones is that it's incredibly 
 short. It's possible to finish the campaign in just one sitting, but it's definitely an explosive 
 thrillride that rivals any other single-player shooter, like Half-Life 2: Episode Two. You can 
 try to tackle it at difficulties above normal and while it does change up the gameplay significantly 
 because of the punishing difficulty, it can be an extremely frustrating experience, rather than 
 a challenging and fun one. Tackling the arcade mode is a potential boost for the single-player's 
 replay value, because you'll be scored on every kill, but the biggest draw to play it again is 
 because the single-player mode is flat out amazing; it's easily the best single-player campaign 
 in the series. And once you're done exhausting the single-player, an entirely different game awaits 
 you.
  
  What makes Call of Duty 4 such a shining star is its multi-player mode. You have your usual multi-player 
 variants like, deathmatch, team deathmatch, capture the flag, territories and so on. So, in the 
 sense of just multi-player modes, there isn't much that really stands out. Instead, what makes 
 it such an addicting experience is the level and perks system. You start off by choosing one of 
 five pre-set classes. Once you hit level 4, you're allowed to craft your own class via a combination 
 of weapons, different iron sights, camo patterns and most importantly, perks.
  
  Perks are essentially skills. For example, the last stand perk allows you to have a jab at your 
 opponent after you've been shot down. The juggernaut perk lets you take more damage. Others make 
 your bullets harder hitting, while others let you sprint for a longer period of time. The perks 
 system could've easily made multi-player an imbalanced experience, but a couple smart moves from 
 Infinity keep things in check. You can't have more than three perks at a time. You have to choose 
 wisely and there never seems to be a combination that makes you practically invincible. That's 
 because perks don't drastically change your character. It's much more subtle in how its implemented; 
 you'll definitely feel the benefits of a perk, but you never feel over or underpowered. It's your 
 shooting skills that's ultimately the most important skill above all else.
  
  As mentioned before, you level by killing, which nets you experience. You can also level by completing 
 challenges, like attaining so-and-so number of headshots. It's super addicting because it's much 
 like tethering a tantalizing price on a stick. It's always just one more level, just a couple more 
 experience points, which then translates to just one more round. To make leveling even more addicting, 
 you're awarded new ranks to boost your ego, new perks and new weapons. Completing challenges net 
 you new scopes, new skins for you guns and yourself and various other attachments for your guns. 
 The multi-player constantly doles out new stuff by just playing, and it works brilliantly. The 
 level cap is at 55, but even when you've reached the top, the core multi-player gameplay is so 
 strong that it's more than enough to hook you in for another round.
  
  The gameplay is also significantly different in the multi-player arena than in the single-player 
 one. Playing like you did in the single-player, staying behind a nice chunk of cover and popping 
 off a few rounds, will probably get you killed immediately. Constantly moving around the map, finding 
 your targets proves to be the most successful method. Bullet penetration also takes a major role, 
 because it affects you and your opponents in the multi-player. Netting kills by guessing where 
 your human opponent is taking cover's immensely satisfying and your battle cries will definitely 
 be heard all over your neighborhood.
  
  As twitchy as the multi-player can get, there's a tactical edge to it all. Shooting without using 
 your ironsights means you won't hit anything unless you're in their face and most of the maps are 
 designed in such a way that you have to smart about where you're moving about. The maps are fairly 
 big in size, with crossroads, bridges and buildings scattered throughout the map. Moving about 
 around the borders of the map, instead of the center, will most likely extend your life and your 
 kill streak. Your skills in self-preservation will also be rewarded. Get enough kills in a row 
 and you'll get be granted a much more comprehensive radar. Extend you kill streak even longer and 
 you'll get bombing runs. Extend it again and you'll get to call in a helicopter that'll wreak havoc 
 on anything that moves out in the open. It's another thing that keeps you motivated to try to be 
 smart about what you're doing, and all the more reason why Call of Duty 4 has one of the best, 
 if not the best, multi-player mode to date.
  
  Shooting is a visceral and exciting act, and the audiovisuals in Call of Duty 4 amplifies that 
 to an immeasurably high degree. Call of Duty 4 is easily one of the most eye-pleasing games to 
 date. Gorgeous destruction, eye-piercingly sharp gun models and attention detail have always been 
 a given for Call of Duty games, and Call of Duty 4 is no different. However, Call of Duty 4 is 
 the home to a lot of firsts for the series, graphically. Dynamic shadows are now fully implemented 
 and it adds a lot more atmosphere and immersion to levels visually compared to its predecessors. 
 Motion-captured animations are utilized also and the results are fantastic. Watching your squad 
 mates and the enemy run from cover to cover, taking a hit, throwing a grenade, etc. all look so 
 incredibly natural and life-like that again, it only adds to the immersion of being in the middle 
 of a war. Physics are also implemented to a greater degree. Through a combination of pre-made animations 
 and physics, the death animations are stunningly convincing and the days of corpses floating above 
 objects are a thing of a past. The graphics do have a couple blemishes; the texture work isn't 
 always outstanding, the face models have a weird, artificial look about them and the particles 
 aren't the sharpest. Something that affects the actual gameplay, however, is how both the good 
 and bad guys look similar off in the distance, potentially resulting in team kills. You'll be able 
 to distinguish them after awhile, but you might accidentally kill a few of your friends every once 
 in awhile, both on and offline. Taken as a whole, though, Call of Duty 4 is a visual feast for 
 the eyes.
  
  Unsurprisingly, the audio is the better technical component. Traditionally, Call of Duty has always 
 featured superb audio work, but Call of Duty 4 hits superlative levels. Every single sound effect 
 is stunningly clear and distinct. When bullets whiz by you, you might literally duck down while 
 playing. Again, this is all a given, but Call of Duty 4 goes above and beyond in the realm of voice 
 acting and music. Gone are the cheesy one-liners and the relative lack of cussing. The voice acting 
 is practically flawless and the Russians finally speak in their own native tongue, only speaking 
 in english when they need to tell you something. Cussing is used with proper restraint, and it 
 adds to the authenticity and grittiness of the game. Not only has the voice acting improved, but 
 the music takes a much more modern approach. Instead of a blaring and bombastic orchestra, the 
 score is much more low-key and the use of electric guitars and digital sounds enhance the feel 
 that Call of Duty has truly evolved. Call of Duty 4's audio, from top to bottom, is a masterful 
 effort and it's nothing short of flawless.
  
  The shooter market is crowded with a lot of blockbusters and top-tier releases, but Call of Duty 
 4 easily stands out as one of the best. The core shooting feels and looks fantastic, the single-player, 
 while short, is a gripping and jaw-dropping experience and the multi-player is so well done that 
 it feels like you're buying two games for the price of one. Call of Duty 4: Modern Warfare represents 
 Infinity Ward's best work to date and it represents everything a shooter should be and more. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jacorb
Rating: 7
Date: Feb 21, 2008 9:58 am PT
Review:  This game has problems:
  -splitscreen lacks maps and bots.
  -Online is addictive (this is partialy why people think it is so good) and a bit glitchy. It also 
 becomes boring unless your not very good.
  -campaign is great but soooo short.
  
  This game is popular because it is so refined and smartly done but it is addictive and this clouds 
 peoples judgement. This type of game has been done too many times. New ideas please.
  
  This game is nothing special.
  
  Graphically i think this game is good but not brilliant. i 
 would say graw2's weather and scenery is better.
  
  i am not saying this game is bad but it is NOT as good as everyone says it is (especially after 
 u have played it for as long as i have) . 
  
  Bassically people play this because it is something simple and pleasent to fall back on but there 
 are better games out there. See if you can stop for more than a week without having a craving for 
 it.
  
  COD4 developers must be laughing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chadhouse
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 20, 2008 9:52 pm PT
Review:  Two games I don't own so far, Kane and Lynch, Call of Duty 4 Modern Warfare. Played both demos 
 they both rock. If the rest of the game is anything like the demo they might have to raise the 
 rating scale. I wasn't a big fan of shooter games. However a friend was telling me about Kane and 
 Lynch so I downloaded the demo. Talked to same friend told me about Call of Duty 4 downloaded the 
 demo have a brand new opinion about shooter games. I think the only thing I noticed in the demo 
 was if you zoomed in one the sniper rifle you couldn't see the grenades coming. Other than that 
 game rocked. I like any game that allows you to either go Rambo style or lay back and snipe from 
 a distance. Recommend this game highly. Looking forward to buying this game the next chance I get. 
 Not big on the multiplayer thing but hear it is fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Valkyrie_44
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 27, 2008 10:47 am PT
Review:  Graphics:
  - Lighting, and texturing looks extremely well done. Looking at the weapons they have a visable 
 mass in the game. The Lighting effective give a great amount of grit, but at the same time give 
 a good mixture of pallet to please the eyes.
  
  - The physics in the game are now up to par with STALKER, and its punishingly difficult weapons 
 handling, and the terrain is not as destructive as Crysis in some cases, but that doesn't mean 
 that garbage isn't flying by and vehicles aren't blowing up around you and your enemies.
  
  
  Audio:
  - The audio felt spot on, each weapon really had its own distinct sound and resonance. 
 Where ever you went and where ever your enemy was positioned you could here their foot steps, vocal, 
 and weapon reports.
  
  - The voice work for single player was pretty darn good especially in the C-130 level just had 
 a beautiful, but disturbing ambiance.
  
  
  Gameplay:
  **Singelplayer:
  - The single player campaign is notably short, and sweet. What it makes up with its lack of quantity 
 it really makes it up in such a great dramatic storyline, and tangible character depictions. Even 
 though the game doesn't have a variable squad-based combat mechanic like Rainbow Six and GRAW, 
 you have a feeling in some point that you are fighting side by side with others.
  
  **Multiplayer:
  - The multiplayer is definitely a great addition to the game, you get the standard 
 fare of game types like deathmatch, and team deathmatch, you can get hardcore modes as well.
  
  - In multiplayer you get to levels, and with levels you get to unlock things, and receive achievements. 
 Gaining levels is not difficult, and does not require selling your soul.
  
  - Player get the opportunity after level 5 to create thier own classes, to suit their play style. 
 These classes can be modified with perks, and weapons types.
  
  - It should be even the lowest level player has a good chance at dominance over a level 55 player. 
 The weapons and perks only allows players to fine tune their kits to exacting play styles, but 
 does not make thier abilities so "uber" they cannot be eliminated.
  
  
  Additional Thoughts:
  - Where Crysis is the benchmark of high end graphics. The multiplayer component 
 of COD4 is the benchmark that other multiplayer games need to strive for. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FEAR_shooter
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 19, 2008 5:38 pm PT
Review:  Call of duty 4 is winner of 40+ E3 awards including: Best show-G4, Best action war game, Best shooter 
 and best graphics.
  
  Multiple Game of the year winner, infinity ward, presents Call of duty 4: Modern Warfare, the next 
 generation of combat shooter and one of the most anticipated games of the year (2007) . Fight as 
 a memeber of the U. S forces and the British spec ops in global hotspots to eliminate a well-armed 
 ruthless force of international separatists. Take the stats online, where persistent stats of customisable 
 weapons and abilities like calling in attack helicopters and fighter jets to dominate your opponents.
 
  
  So i reccomend Modern warfare for anyone who loves the war scene and First person shooters like 
 this impressive game. It is one of the deepest online shooters of all time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Shiftfallout
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 19, 2008 12:24 pm PT
Review:  At first, I didn't know how to explain CoD4 without sounding like I'm touching myself at the same 
 time... but Its just not possible.
  
  CoD4 is one of the best developed games in the history of gaming. Imagine when you first loaded 
 Half-Life 1, and you felt like "hey, I'm actually this person, looking around as if I am there 
 before all the crap happens." Well take that feeling and multiply it 100 fold. You have CoD4... 
 to put it simply... it is an experience. 
  
  It feels like what a fps should be, a cinematic movie in which you control the actor. The actors 
 play out their roles perfectly, and you play yours. You are not alone, but rather one person in 
 a team and your actions work along with theirs. This game, could be used for military training, 
 or if recorded, played back as a movie.
  
  There are no cons to this game. It runs perfectly, everything is perfect. Oh people might complain 
 that its too short, but thats necessarily a con. You see, this game was also made for consoles, 
 and studies have shown console fps players prefer shorter games. It must have taken them a long 
 time to make a game with kind of polish and quality. 
  
  I would rather play a polished and well developed game thats short, than a non polished average 
 game that is longer. This is what Quality is folks, and these kinds of games are not cheap to make. 
 
  
  After you finish the game ( suggest not playing it on easy ) , you are given the option to replay 
 levels based on a point system. This allows for some replay value so you can brag about how fast 
 and accurate you ran the level. 
  
  Thats not all though, its a multi-player game, and one hell of one as well. Play online after the 
 single player campaign is over, it doesn't get old, its just amazing. 
  
  Because of CoD4, the standards of gaming have just been reset, and most games will be hard pressed 
 to meet this level of fun, development and polish.
  
  Good show. Keep it up CoD4 team. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ciaranlynch
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 19, 2008 11:28 am PT
Review:  This has to be one of the best fps ever the graphics are great weapons are great sound is superb. So 
 what else could there be??? The single player missions are great the game is a little to short 
 but the fast paced missions make up for that and so does the Multiplayer.
  
  
  Multiplayer is brilliant i also enjoyed playing splitscreen with my friend. One thing that I found 
 great was the the way you could shoot through a wall and kill someone at the other side. Another 
 exciting thing about the game was that normally in a fps if you shot through window and someone 
 was at the other side it wouldn't hurt but in this it has all changed very realistic
  
  All in All this is a great game and should be tried by every pc gamer who has a strong enough machine 
 to run it 
  Graphics=10-10
  Sound=10=10
  Multiplayer=10-10
  Story=10-10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BritishBeans
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 19, 2008 7:52 am PT
Review:  the good- story mode was out of this world when you get caught in a nuclear explosion some of the 
 effects are amazing. opening mission draws you in brilliantly for the rest of the game. although 
 the story is short the great effects and game make up for it 
  online multiplayer is good also it has a level up system which makes you want to aim for something. 
 sound effects like the sound of the guns and explosions and the new fps system where there is no 
 healthh bar is a great idea.
  
  the bad - there used to be a massive wait to get into online lobbies but this is gone so it takes 
 about 5 secs to get into a game which is good
  there is no co-op modes so you cannot team up with your mates on the story mode.
  
  overall, 
 brilliant game and if it had more co-operative mode i think i would have given it a 10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sheep44
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 18, 2008 8:51 pm PT
Review:  After having played Call of Duty 4: Modern Warfare for hours I realized steadily that this easily 
 ranks as one of the best first person shooters ever produced. Don't get me wrong, other games in 
 the genre such as Crysis or the Halo series also keep my attention, COD4 just has that extra edge.
 
  
  To sum up my opinion on this game Id have to use the word Astonished.
  
  Although the single player campaign is shorter than most games, the realism it has to offer is 
 extremely precise. Everything from bullet physics to the AI is in tune making the game play that 
 much more thrilling.
  
  Graphically this game is excellent, visual effects look real, it is obvious that a great deal of 
 attention was placed on level design and quality.
  
  As for the audio I am glad to see (well hear...) an entirely original set of sound effects, I'm 
 not sure how many games I have played where the reload, or shot, or step was actually the same 
 sound effect used in a previous game...
  
  Multiplayer is defiantly a pile of a fun. Its in many ways reminiscent of counter strike (regarding 
 the team based play) it can be both fast paced and slow depending upon which class you set up (as 
 a sniper you can hide so well that people may have a hard time finding you... takes some practice)
 
  but with smg or even a assault rifle you can play it as if it was Unreal Tournament...
  
  Regarding everything else, as I said, this is a masterpiece beyond the shadow of a doubt. Even 
 if its "just another first person shooter", it goes to show that with lots of a effort even a game 
 approaching a high competition genre can be successful, and most of all, a classic.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: altenter
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 18, 2008 7:47 pm PT
Review:  Call of Duty 4: Modern Warfare is so far better than the rest of the call of duty games. The single 
 player action campaign is very exciting. You start the game out in some training camp or base for 
 England's Special Forces in which you must pass some training game to join you new squad, (with 
 this training exercise you'll learn the basic controls of the game) . Your first mission is to investigate 
 a Russian ship that has nuke stuff. This beginning level is very intense because the ship sinks 
 to the side and you see the water and objects behave like their going down with the ship. That 
 Middle Eastern town that got nuked in the game was very neat thing to see blow up on my computer 
 screen it looked very real. The sniper levels taking place in the past during Chernobyl disaster 
 was very well done, (sneaking past guards and tanks, sniping people when there not looking) . also 
 during this Chernobyl level there was that sniping part were you had to snipe someone a couple 
 miles away from a apartment complex with the wind in your way, (that was a brilliant idea, but 
 I wanted to really kill the guy with a headshot) . The last level with the Russian nukes, well I 
 thought the creators of the game should let the nukes hit us. towns and have conclude to a new 
 game or expansion pack that would be cool. The multiplayer for this game is very bad, I played 
 it once and never again, (small maps= bad no vehicles= bad, overall very bad) . An older game like 
 battlefield has better war maps than call of duty modern warfare. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: monkeyass07
Rating: 5
Date: Feb 18, 2008 4:46 pm PT
Review:  Single player campaign has all that I have come to love from the Call of Duty series, except 3 
 because it sucked. With the multi player they have made major improvements that has made it even 
 more enjoyable. My gripe is with the ranking and unlocking system. The system itself is fine, the 
 problem is in how it is stored client side. By storing the data client side it has made it impossible 
 to play on another computer without carrying the file with me everywhere. Also by storing it client 
 side it has to be backed up all the time so you don't accidentally delete it in a format or system 
 corruption. Infinity Ward made a huge mistake by not storing this information on their side and 
 they should have looked too the Battlefield series that had to have a login account to play so 
 they could store your stats on their servers. This is not the only reason why they should have 
 had this information stored server side they also made it so easy for people to hack the mpdata 
 file and have everything in minutes. If this huge oversight was fixed this game could easily score 
 a 9+ but until then it will only get a 5. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Penguin_Life101
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 17, 2008 8:40 am PT
Review:  This is one of the most amazing games ever. Buy it please. The good things are, 1. Amazing singleplayer. 
 So what, it's short. It's worth playing over and over again. 2. Great storyline. This game has 
 one of the best plots in games ever. 3. THE BEST GAMEPLAY OF ANY FPS! This game has some of the 
 best gameplay I have seen in FPS history. Up there w/ half-life 4. Amazing sound design. This game 
 has such good sound design, you'll be able to tell where people are behind walls. 5. Amazing multiplayer. 
 This game's multiplayer team deathmatch is so much fun, I played it for almost 10 hours straight! 
 Tips: For the multiplayer, use these perks & guns: Gun: M16A4, attatchment red dot sight. Perk 
 1: Special grenades X3. Perk 2: Deep impact. This allows you to fire through almost any material. 
 Perk 3: Stopping power. This allows more bullet damage. I got these tips from watching X-Play pro 
 tips. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: g8summit
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 16, 2008 10:56 pm PT
Review:  I'm sorry, but I have to get this off my chest before we go any further. Call of Duty 4 is better 
 than Halo 3. There I've said it, and don't hate me for it.
  
  This game has the best graphics I have seen to date in a game. I have never seen such detail, such 
 fantastic lighting in a game to date. I truly believe that this is what next gen games should strive 
 to look like. With fantastic particle effects, this game will astound you with its drop dead gorgeous 
 environment. It's truly fantastic. I must also say I like the variety in environments. Following 
 a SAS squad you move through Russia in its cold, but grassy environments offer stark contrast to 
 the Middle East storyline following the Americans. Even the facial details on the soldiers are 
 incredible. Especially the mustache on the SAS squad leader. I have never seen such a detailed 
 mustache! But enough with graphical explanations, if you don't believe me, just look up a high 
 definition screenshot like this one: http://media. gdcdn. com/games/call-of-duty-4-modern-warfare/pc/24. jpg 
 on google.
  
  Now for the sound. This game creates a Hollywood immersion effect through the use of a constant 
 barrage of noise. I must say that there is never a time where there isn't noise coming from somewhere 
 in the game. It's never overwhelming, and it doesn't make your ears bleed, but it makes an incredible 
 experience. You can hear the bullet whizzing by your head, hearing the collision of every single 
 one heating the different materials. You can hear the screams of the injured, the shouting of the 
 opposition in their respective languages and of course the commands of your teammates. Yes, along 
 with the near photo realistic graphics, the sound creates the closest audiovisual experience you 
 will ever get, unless of course you plan to go to Iraq and experience the fun for yourself. *Joke* 
 (I fully support the soldiers in Iraq, and what they in themselves stand for) . 
  
  But, does the game hold your interest. The answer is obvious, of course. Although the storyline 
 and missions are all linear, they don't feel constraining. There are always multiple routes around, 
 you can either take the buildings, the street etc and it always feels like a real battlefield with 
 multiple options to tackle every situation. Your team feels just as tactile. There's a neat system 
 in COD 4, it maintains a steady flow of teammates, always maintaining the same amount. In the SAS 
 squad storyline, your teammates are invincible (or at least they seem so) , so you always have your 
 squad there to back you up. In the American storyline, the perfect amount is maintained by reinforcements 
 that move up once the front line soldiers die. It always feels like you are a leader, but never 
 alone. The AI moves up teammates at key point like when your are about to enter a building or round 
 a corner. This means that you can take cover at the corner and allow your mates to move first if 
 you want. I can't say the AI on your side is overly intelligent, it often feels like they will 
 fire at something forever and still achieve nothing, but the enemies are just right, maintaining 
 the balance between tactics and sheer amount to keep you interested.
  
  The single player experience is great, but it's short. The real component that this game has in 
 it's favor is it's multi player. I truly believe that COD 4 has the best multi player experience 
 currently offered on the Xbox 360. Each game mode, every map, everything possible feels perfectly 
 balanced. It feels like the developers spent decades just tweaking to create perfection online. 
 It serves to create an experience that challenges the best, yet is easy and never daunting for 
 novices to jump into. You just keep coming back for more, always wanting to climb the ranks to 
 get a new gun, to complete a challenge like get 25 head shot, or to unlock a new perk like matrydom 
 (which allows you to drop a grenade when you die) . 
  
  In conclusion, this is a game that I will never trade in (Or at least until Cod 5 comes out) . This 
 is an experience that will never get boring, and with promises of continued support and DLC, this 
 is a game that I will be coming back to 6 months to a year from now. If there is one game that 
 you buy this year, it must be COD 4, or I fear you will miss out on one truly amazing game. 
  
  
  
  
  
  Oh wait, there is one tiny problem that prevents this game from getting a ten, 
 a bad ending, and a short single player experience. But seriously you won't care about any of this 
 as soon as you experience the online play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ghost732
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 16, 2008 10:30 pm PT
Review:  Best game ever! GRAPHICS, SOUND, GAMELPLAY, WEAPONS, I DONT KNOW WHERE TO BEGIN!!!. OK. how bout 
 graphics. Amazing environments and explosions bring the game to life. Sound! From every RPG flying 
 through the air to every terrorist praying to Alah for sweat life. Gameplay and weapons..... join 
 the army and it still wouldnt be this cool. Buy this game or your a loser. And dont just be one 
 of those people who just sit around looking at reviews for a game because they wanna play it so 
 bad but your mommy wont let you. Get off ur @$$, say dammit mom i want COD4 and play and let it 
 change ur life. By the way. When you play online, dont be a freaking n00b and use the M16 once 
 your past rank 20 cuz then ur just making it suck for everyone else thats trying to enjoy gods 
 great gift to the gaming world. And yes i do know this is probably the crappiest review ever but... 
 ya know.... i dont care. See ya later. AND ENJOY!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PlzDuntBanMe
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 16, 2008 6:48 am PT
Review:  The single player is really intense, iv'e been enjoying every single minute of it. I really liked 
 the mission "Death From Below" when you are in the AC-130 Gunship, its just like stomping little 
 ants by firepower. But the single player is really short.
  
  The Multiplayer is also great. Its highly addictive, and there is alot of features to choose from. 
 
  
  Besides just using guns, you have your grenades. There are the hand grenades and the smoke grenades. 
 Sometimes throwing a hand grenade can be deadly, especially when the enemy can throw it back at 
 you. But, you can throw the enemy's grenades back at them as well. The smoke from the smoke grenade 
 is very realistic but it also has it's bad side when you can't see where you are going most of 
 the time. Also sometimes it seems the enemy can see through it which doesn't help.
  
  Ill say this is the best game out there yet!
  
  10/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Avals
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 16, 2008 1:43 am PT
Review:  One word.. awesome! This kept on happening in the game makin you "wow.. WOw".. insane hardcore and 
 realistic... review can't describe it.. play it! I swear I can never play any other shooter so realistic 
 and good than.. I have always enjoyed Call of duty series but this one IS revolutionary! Good singleplayer 
 campaign.. but end too/pretty fast, I played it hardened difficulty and finished in 10 hours. Enjoyed 
 very much..
  
  But multiplayer is the real hardcore! HOOHA! I think of getting more maps? Since maps there are 
 pretty few in my options..:)
  Multiplayer-kept on getting slayed at first at hardcore.. later startin to slay others..;) VERY 
 good after you played lot enough and skills imporved..:)
  
  Presentation-8
  Graphic-10
  Gameplay-10 (I wish to give 20)
  Realistic level-10
  Storyline-9 (Just end too short!)
  Sound-10
 
  
  Overrall-10!!!!!! ;) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bigben45
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 15, 2008 9:11 pm PT
Review:  Activision released their fourth installment to the Call Of Duty games, titled Call of Duty 4: 
 Modern Warfare. The game was very in-depth, with a high amount of detail put into every aspect 
 of the game. From popping car's tires, to shooting through materials such as wood and sheet metal, 
 this game is the closest thing yet to actually being in service.
  Unlike the other Call Of Duty games, this title takes place in present day, with all of the current 
 weapons and tactics used now. The gameplay is very similar to the other Call Of Duty titles; It's 
 very smooth and seems natural when you shoot. A new addition to the game is bullet penetration. 
 As mentioned before, now, instead of hiding behind a thin sheet of plywood and coming out unharmed, 
 opponents can now fire their weapons through the obstacle. Don't worry though, you can still easily 
 find places to get cover, just watch what you consider "cover". The graphics are average of a next-gen 
 game. I was running my settings maxed out at a resolution of 1600x1200 and it ran with an average 
 of 31 frames per second.
  The story mode is short (I finished it in one night on a difficulty of recruit) but there are four 
 levels of difficulty, so, take your time. In the story, you are switching between S. A. S. missions 
 and tasks from the U. S. Marine Corps. The story is well written; it is a lot like an episode of 
 24. Like the HALO series, Activision added enemy Intel, a lot like the skulls that we've spent 
 ever so much time trying to find
  There is also online play, with many things that make it different from other games of its kind. 
 For one, the maps are huge and realistic, and span from the bombed streets of the Middle East, 
 to small, overgrown farming villages of Russia. Along with massive selections of weapons and maps, 
 Call of Duty 4 also offers a new option of Create a Class, where you customize your weapons and 
 attachments that fit your needs. Along with create a class, even more customizable options are 
 included, called perks. For example, when killed, a perk is that you drop a live grenade, that 
 (hopefully) blows you opponent to smithereens. There are three slots for you to put perks, and 
 each slot has several choices. The ranking system is a lot like Rainbow 6: Vegas. Wherein every 
 kill (or assist) gives you a certain amount of points, witch brings your overall ranking up. The 
 higher the rank, the more weapons, perks, and attachments you unlock. 
  Overall, Call of Duty 4: Modern Warfare is very different from its successors, with an in depth 
 storyline and full customization of your character.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: numbersss101
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 15, 2008 2:41 am PT
Review:  Welcome to my review! Here you'll see why this game is such a cool game!
  
  Story: Ok, the story takes place in multiple places. The story is about USMC invading a country (forgot 
 its name) while the SAS help the russian loyalist fight off the russian ultra something something. 
 After a nuclear detention in the country (the country that the US was invading) , the USMC thought 
 that Al-Assad was dead so did the SAS. But soon fonds out he is hiding in somewhere in the country 
 side guarded by the ultra guys. After you capture him, you'll play as a younger captain price for 
 2 sniping mission. This is my favorite part of the whole game. This is where you can use a 50cal 
 sniper rifle but only once. After that you have to evac immediately. Blah blah blah forgot these 
 parts. Last mission is you (SAS) and the USMC try to prevent russians nukes hit the US. Its qutie 
 a fair challenge this game.
  
  Gameplay: If you have a good computer, you can easily run this at mid settings and around 30-60 
 frames atleast. And if you can run this on 60 frames, you'll gonna have a blast! Normal is difficult 
 enough! Took me atleast 6hours to finish. I know, I know, game is too short. But try playing this 
 game in veteran! Sometimes the fire fights can be so intense that it last around 20-30minutes to 
 just get through! Even then it will just buy you another 2-5 hours depending on how good you are. 
 Shooting through walls is a cool feature, so is destroyable cars.
  
  Multiplayer: Well, I don't live in the US so, I don't know hows the multiplayer but most likely 
 is very fun.
  
  Now you're wondering, what is so special about this game?
  
  Graphics: The graphics.............. are  ARE AWESOME! Seriously 
 though its just like you are there! I think if this game has a free roaming just like gta or crysis, 
 this game would be the game of the year/decade? 
  
  Anyway, whole point of this game is just to run, dodge, shoot, throw back grenades and run. Still 
 one of the best games I've ever play!
  
  Graphics: 10
  Story:9
  Gameplay: 10
  Multiplayer: Skip~
  Overall: 9.6 bout still thats quite high so l'll just put it to 9.
  
 
  So long and thanks for all the fish~! (Note I've not yet completed the veteran mode thats why 
 my time spent is around 40 to 100hours T_T) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bjmage16
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 30, 2008 10:16 am PT
Review:  Ok, the fourth installment in the Call of Duty series FINALLY took a new direction. Instead of 
 WWII, we get a fictitious modern storyline. I'll keep it short and sweet. The single player campaign, 
 while short, is very good. It's very satisfying when you beat it. It's difficult, often frustrating, 
 but it's full of the big events that make you go "WOW." And that's what Call of Duty has, and will 
 always be about.
  
  So, the single player is good. What about multiplayer. This is arguably where the game shines the 
 most. Simply put, it's nearly perfect. And few multiplayer games can say this. What makes this 
 so unique and fun is the leveling system. You gain experience as you play games, kill enemies, 
 and complete challenges. As you gain levels, you unlock new weapons and attachments for your weapons.
 
  
  So, what makes this so unique? Not the unlockable weapons as you play, but the perks. You can equip 
 your character with three perks, each of which gives a bonus or ability. You can create five custom 
 templates, each with unique weapons and perks. It's addictive trying to create your own classes.
 
  
  There are quite a few varieties of builds you can do. My personal favorite is to use a silenced 
 P90 (unlocked quite a bit later as you level) , silenced pistol, the Bandolier perk (gives you more 
 ammo) , UAV jammer (which prevents you from showing up on your enemy's radar when they use a UAV) , 
 and either Dead Silence (makes you near silent) or Extreme Conditioning (makes it so you can run 
 much farther without having to catch your breath) . It's a stealth build, it's good and it's a LOT 
 of fun.
  
  You can also go other routes. One of my others is a machine gun build. I use a machine gun with 
 a grip (which makes the gun more accurate) , Stopping Power and Deep Impact, increasing damage and 
 making bullets go through walls with more force.
  
  It's a LOT of fun creating your own classes. And the game plays perfectly. Get this game. Now. 
 It's much better than Halo 3 (which I love) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: I_pWnzz_YoU
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 12, 2008 8:47 pm PT
Review:  This is going to be me just talking bout some of the Pros and Cons of COD4. Hope you agree with 
 me :) enjoy.
  
  Pros-Single Player
  -Very cinematic and suspenseful gun fights will have you wanting more.
  -Stunning visuals (For 
 Multiplayer as well) .
  -Realistic modeling of weapons, characters, vehicles and environments (eg. the "All Ghillied up" 
 mission in Chernobyl) .
  -Great story, starting out with two separate campaigns (SAS and USMC) and then tying them together 
 in later on missions.
  -Excellent perspective of the character (s) . When you play as Soap MacTavish and Paul Jackson, you 
 actually feel like you're looking through their eyes and in the battle.
  
  Pros-Multiplayer
  -Intense battles with massive amounts of other people from around the world.
 
  -Innovative ranking and item unlocking system.
  -Perks to boost your performance while playing.
  -Fun game modes such as Search and Destroy, 
 Team Deathmatch, Domination, Sabotage and Free for All.
  
  Cons-Single Player
  -Seems a little short (although the hours spent on Multiplayer should make up for it) .
  -Some 
 parts can be hard and frustrating.
  
  Cons- Multiplayer
  -Some Perks can get annoying when used against you, such as Martyrdom and Last stand
  -Some maps 
 are very small which can be a little bit of a pain for Snipers
  -You're only allowed to put one attachment on a gun at once : (
  
  Overall
  -This is an amazing 
 game for any fan of FPS's (or videogames in general) , although it does require some power from 
 your comp. and it's rare to find people the same level as you if you're a low level which can make 
 it challenging and hard to play. But aside from all that, I suggest everyone rush out and buy a 
 copy of COD4 :)
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Im_bettr_than_u
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 12, 2008 3:04 pm PT
Review:  COD4 modern warfare is a big change from their previous ww2 series. with much better graphics (eg, 
 the rain and scenery is so well done.. along with the explosions and fire) as u'd expect. a solid 
 single player campaign with intense senarios and combat, with realistic tactics and probably similar 
 missions used by american in previous wars and battles.
  
  and the multiplayer.. OMG!.. fun!.. i know a few people who through the christmas holidays just played 
 this game online!.. i mean its addictive! with like tons of game mods and highly detailed maps.
 
  
  what makes this game stand out for counterstrike is that u dont get money... u get experience and 
 so ur character can level up reaping all the benifets of new armour, weapons and camoflauge. with 
 at least 1million people playing this game online u wont ever need to play the single plaYER! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ziggy56
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 12, 2008 6:39 am PT
Review:  Call of Duty 4 is one of those games that will keep you up until the wee hours of the night. The 
 Single player campaign, although short, is amazing and very well done. The multiplayer is in a 
 league of its own. Nothing like fighting of a handful of your best buds in a deserted city block 
 in Russia !
  
  Ok, the single player, although it is short it is packed with some major gun fights. Not sure if 
 I can remember a down time where I was not hanging on the edge of my seat. They also included a 
 sniper mission where your main objective is to sneak past enemy guards in a lush green environment 
 in your ghillie suit. But the AC-130 mission is what sold me right away, one of my favorites. So 
 much I want to tell but I will not ruin it for those who would like to play the single player.
 
  
  The multiplayer, although it has a few bugs, is awesome ! when I say a few bugs I mean it, infantry 
 ward has done a great job listening to the community this time around and have been pumping patches 
 out regularly, so do not go on there reputation for late/no patches at all image from CoD2. There 
 are 55 military ranks that you level up in multiplayer, and every few ranks rewards you with a 
 unlock these unlocks could be a new weapon, or a new perk. In the PC version of the game the level 
 cap is 55, unlike the PS3 and Xbox360 versions, were you can enter prestige mode resetting all 
 your stats and allowing you to climb the military ranks again with acknowledgment of doing so next 
 to your name.
  
  There are many weapons in CoD4, and with each of them come a number of customization options. The 
 M4 for instance, can be customized with one attachment, a silencer, 203 (grenade launcher) , red 
 dot sight, or an ACOG scope. After choosing the attachment, you can then choose the skin; either 
 no camo, woodland, sand, digital, as well as red and blue tiger. All of these attachments and skins 
 are unlocked by gaining a certain number of kills or headshots with the particular gun you are 
 using, creating a objective to your mindless killing. 
  
  Perks are certain upgrades that are always active once applied to your class. Such as Sleight Of 
 Hand, allowing you to reload 2x as fast as you would without the perk. Another would be Bomb Squad, 
 allowing you to see explosives. This is particularly useful when trying to spot and avoid claymores.
 
  
  Overall CoD4 is a great game and I would recommend it to anyone looking for a new and exciting 
 shooter. I would rank it right up there with CSS. One of 2007's best.
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: joramHH
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 11, 2008 6:10 pm PT
Review:  While I always tend to get the latest and greatest game, I am always apprehensive when I buy FPS 
 games. Is the next one revolutionary or just more of the same? What's the community going to be 
 like. Is it going to ruin the game or help it? What about the dev support.?
  
  Well, while I wouldn't quite call this game revolutionary, it is evolutionary and the designers 
 have in many ways perfected the FPS genre as it stands today. So, first the technical review.
 
  
  Graphics are beautiful. I am able to run everything maxed and while not quite photo-realistic, 
 the details are the next best thing. If you remember old Joint Operations which used some kind 
 of fuzzy routine to help blend you into the landscape that could actually be defeated by poorer 
 computers. Well, you can't really do that here because you literally blend as well as you would 
 in real life. Proper uniform in the right spot and you will walk right on by. I can't tell you 
 how many times I've been shot at by someone close up because he chose a great hiding spot. Hmm, 
 come to think of it, maybe it's my eyesight! Naaah!! Try it, you'll see. 
  
  Sound is high quality. Can't really say more than that. What you fire sounds like what you expect 
 with the appropriate weapons and explosions and such. Voice acting is good, not overdone at all. 
 Voices in game are also clear when appropriate.
  
  I bought the game late and this had already been patched up to 1.5.5 (or something similar to that) 
 and I experienced no bugs to speak of. No bugs I can even remember to be frank.
  
  Now on to the game itself:
  The single player game, while short, is the most fun I've ever had 
 in a FPS. There isn't a whole lot of suspense ala early Crysis or HL (1 or 2) but to be honest, 
 I don't like suspense. I didn't buy a FPS so I can have some graphical slimeball try to scare me. 
 With that said, there are certainly plenty of scenes where you will just hold your breathe and 
 go "Whoa, I didn't see that coming". It's extremely well written and while I could be disappointed 
 that even a relatively FPS-adverse person like myself finished it in a single afternoon, I am actually 
 more grateful they spent time in the quality and production of the story. 
  
  But few people buy a FPS just for the single-player. If you did, while you will enjoy the story, 
 I think you will be disappointed because of it's length. For those who want to move on to the multi-player, 
 there's a lot more waiting for you.
  
  COD4 currently enjoys the largest online FPS community so there are always plenty of games. The 
 in-game browser is quick and efficient. No comparison to that garbage BF2 had when it first came 
 out. I hated that so much I never bought the follow-up. This has an easily sorted server list and 
 you can just as easily add favorite servers. What you can't do is tell if you have buddies online 
 through it but there are plenty of other programs for that.
  
  I didn't count exactly but I believe there are close to a dozen maps though it seems in the servers 
 I frequent only about half those are popular. I still haven't fought the one on the ship. There 
 are several game modes. Deathmatch, Team Deatmatch, Domination (a capture the flag game) , Headquarters 
 (a side captures an HQ and then tries to defend it. This happens several times during a round so 
 who is defending and attacking switches continuously) , and Sabotage where you try to pick up a 
 bomb and plant it at a certain place. The last usually being the most "thoughtful" of the types 
 of play. There may be more but those seem to be the most popular. There's also two overally modes, 
 one I will just call Normal which gives you the standard hud and crosshairs and the other being 
 "Hardcore" which completely removes the HUD and increases bullet damage among other things. All 
 settings I believe are individually tweakable by the server mod.
  
  I don't recall which game introduced this first (BF2 I think) but I think there is the now standard 
 rank and perk system. But it is quite involved and offers a lot of variety. Not all weapons are 
 created equal and some will definitely come down to personal preference. So while you will see 
 a lot of M60's out there for sure, you will also see a wide variety of assault guns, SMGs, sniper 
 rifles and even a couple shotguns. Advancing in rank will open up addons to weapons (like a "grip" 
 for a LMG which improves accuracy or upgraded sites for various weapons or a silencer to prevent 
 being detected) . There's really two much to go into detail but they obviously put a lot of thought 
 into this and it adds nice flavor so rarely will two people, even if similarly skilled and equipped, 
 will have exactly the same abilities.
  
  The last interesting thing Activision did is give you awards for streaks. Kill 3, you can call 
 in a UAV to reveal enemies on the map (unless they have a certain perk!) , 5 kills, you call in 
 an airstrike and there is a nice GUI which allows you to place it rather precisely. 7 Kills and 
 you call in a Helicopter which you actually can shoot and control through (though not really fly 
 in the sense of BF) .
  
  So I only have two real gripes about the multiplayer. One major, one minor. The minor gripe is 
 that there really are no vehicles. The maps and gameplay are such that you don't really miss it 
 though but every once in awhile I do get a hankering for hopping in a Hummer with a Mk19 launcher 
 and just go to town.
  
  The major gripe though is a combination of the small maps and no safe zones. In larger servers, 
 it is not uncommon to be killed four or five times in a row before you can even leave the spawn 
 area. Through constant helicoptors, aerial strikes, grenades or spawn camping (which is actually 
 almost impossible not to do given the sizes of the maps) , you can die quite quickly and easily. 
 There are no safe zones. There is no temporary spawning invulnerability. You are simply so much 
 chopped liver until you get lucky enough to spawn in the lull of a battle or in some random spawn 
 point not under attack. 
  
  And that's really what the designers chose to do which is to spread the spawn points around the 
 map. So while fixed, which one you spawn at will be random. This is ok up to a point but unfortunately 
 on many maps, it is setup so you can actually spawn behind enemy lines or in the same spawn area 
 as your enemy (The Ambush map is a perfect example) . I don't particularly care for this feature 
 and this and the insta-death upon spawning over and over are the main reasons I rate this below 
 a 9. 
  
  With that said, if you can handle that, this game has an undeniable fun factor and is very addictive. 
 There are more features I haven't even talked about (such as bullet penetration) so this game has 
 a lot going for it. Not sure if I will ever get the king of the hill medal for finishing first 
 on a deathmatch unless it's a server of 2 and my opponent is a one-armed drooling kid who's blind 
 in both eyes but the game will certainly keep me coming back to try.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: dino213
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 11, 2008 10:55 am PT
Review:  The latest addition to Call of Duty series COD4 modern warfare is arguably the best in the series 
 and the best next-gen shooter out there. In this game, it has moved on from the traditional theme 
 of WW2 moving to a more modern setting. Finally! You play as two soldiers, one british and one 
 american, in a fictional war. With this comes new weapons, new mission styles and this time your 
 shooting terrorists. Goodbye Nazis.
  
  The gameplay in this game in amazing providing plenty of enemies as well as cover and weapons lying 
 around. There is a big variety in the missions. The ones with tonnes of actions and heavy resistance 
 are the most **** but the occasional sniper and sneaking levels provide good respites but it never 
 gets too quiet. There are intel (little laptops) lying around each level. When you collect enough 
 of a certain number of them you can activate cheats. Most of these don't help in gameplay but can 
 change the feel of the game. The campaign isn't very long only taking a couple of hours to complete 
 but it's short and sweet. This paired up with other difficulty modes and the arcade mode give it 
 plenty of replayability .
  
  The graphics of the game are great filled with vibrant detail and texture.
  The characters look 
 good too.
  The sound is perfect with superb voice acting and entrancing music.
  
  The multiplayer is the thing that makes this game so good. There are all the classic matches like 
 deathmatch and team deathmatch. There are also newer matches like search and destroy. The customisation 
 is very unique allowing you to upgrade yourself and give yourself perks to boost yourself in the 
 game.
  
  COD4 is overall a great game that any ps3,360 or good pc owner should have. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RealMadrid7
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 11, 2008 10:16 am PT
Review:  This game was so good I almost ran out and joined the army. That didn't work so I just played through 
 it again. I'm kinda sorry I had to get this as a rental; everyone said the campaign is so short 
 which it is, but it's so damn intense. My girlfriend was caught up watching the game and kept on 
 saying this is too damn real. The graphics are superb and the definitive display of the PS3s capabilities. 
 The gameplay is relentless and intense without being overwhelming. The AI is great, your squadmates 
 save your ass. It would have been nice to drive a vehicle or tow but hey there is no such thing 
 as perfect. The sniping is pot-on the weapons pack a punch, and the helicopter crash scene is probable 
 the gaming highlight of a lifetime. I wish I could replay that scene over and over again. I loved 
 this game, its great and it may be the best game I've played on a Next Gen even better than Bioshock 
 and that's saying a lota whole damn lot. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cpl_bulldog2
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 11, 2008 8:17 am PT
Review:  quite honestly i first shall not give any spoilers of the game (HATE SPOILERS!!) but the graphics 
 engine is the best i have seen ever in a game and i have many games maxed out, the guns i have 
 checked on google are to dot precision and the story has the best ending in the world! first time 
 i have seen a gun pointed at my head and die (don't worry hes not the main character so its not 
 a spoiler) , the multi-player has the battlefield multiplayer and others which have fixed the battlefield 
 lag and patch problems, but the main problem is that the multiplayer has no search threw the games 
 which is a let down and you cant add friends on the pc version so that is needed to be fixed in 
 call of duty 5, also like halo 3 at recruit (easiest) your likely to go around the game in around 
 about 6 hours of gaming without the intelligence collectibles so go in at a higher difficulty if 
 you want to prolong the difficulty, once completed you get heats which are useful but to get the 
 good ones like slow-mo you need more intelligence lab-tops and the infinite ammo you need all of 
 them! really got me stuck in, but the pc is needing a lot of gaming tech for the maxed out version 
 and to get no lag you need a high fps for this, at first i could not even get shadows! so upgraded 
 pc is needed! overall this is the best game i have played and the best at the moment for all console 
 available (also there's a ds version! its not the same though : ( should of worked if they kept 
 the story and the graphics to the ds's limit but as usual they did not!) hopefully they'll fix 
 the multiplayer problems but 1 good thing is that if a kill is caused by a hacker they show up 
 on the chat screen! so they can kicked instantly! AWESOME! hopefully they won't go back to the 
 original ww2 style and get a new gun like a new 80. caliber Barrett or something instead of the 
 50. caliber Barrett! top game and its a masterpiece! 11/10 if i could but obviously not so 10/10 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Roguetrp
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 11, 2008 2:13 am PT
Review:  The parasite called COD4, I call it this because this is what it is. When you load it you think 
 about all the hoo haa that you hear, and hold thumbs that it would be what you hoped it would be. 
 And then you pay the SP game and think to yourself as you try and run on the darn ship that is 
 sinking that tetris is kinda better. You start up the MP game and WOW......3 hours later you are 
 still testing it and all you can do is play and play. It lives of you (sorry, some say I have a 
 problem : ) ) and feeds of the fact that you can not get enough of it. 
  
  This IS the best game of 2007 and it will be long before a game will beat it. Crysis was good but 
 this is awsome. 
  The rank system is a bit funny, but the importat thing for those of us that play because we love 
 the game is that it is solid and good fun.
  
  It is well made and really playes well (i have said that before) , but it really does. You get some 
 really good ppl playing and it is amazing to see how they play and figure out ways to kill you.
 
  
  Play this game. If you do not have it get it NOW. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SKaREO
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 15, 2008 9:23 pm PT
Review:  Thankfully for the fans, Infinity Ward delivers the best in the series with Call of Duty 4: Modern 
 Warfare, a first person shooter set in the middle east. From the time you enter the game, you are 
 guided through a number of shoot 'em up scenes that will leave you hungry for more. The multiplayer 
 portion is where CoD4: MW shines, but not without its quirks.
  
  Players begin at level 1, the first in 55 levels you progress through during your multiplayer career, 
 and you have access to 5 basic classes. As you kill more enemies and complete strategic objectives, 
 such as capturing your headquarters or planting the bomb, you gain levels faster. Eventually you 
 can build your own class with your own choice of modern weaponry.
  
  A big part of this game is in the addition of UAVs, Air Strikes and a Helicopter. As you get more 
 kills in a row you unlock the ability to call in one of three strategic tools. The UAV shows you 
 where enemies are on your map, Air Strikes allow you to carpet bomb the enemy, and the Helicopter 
 flies around locking on to enemies and racking up free kills.
  
  Finally, no modern soldier is complete without his special training, so IW has decided to add "perks" 
 to the gameplay. Each player may choose 3 special abilities to add to their soldier, from greater 
 bullet damage, increased rate of fire, long sprinting or deeper impacts, and many more.
  
  Issues arise when balancing all this together and making it fun. Eventually you're going to notice 
 that there is a certain weapon set up that is better than the rest, or a certain camping spot that 
 gets you easy kills. Most the tactics in the game involve getting kill streaks so you can call 
 in Air Strikes, Helicopters and UAVs. As you can imagine team work is less important than staying 
 concealed and getting easy kills. 
  
  Competitively speaking, this game just doesn't add up. It will never be better than the reigning 
 champion of FPS games, Counter-Strike 1.6, released over 8 years ago. I was really hoping this 
 game would be better after reading the reviews. Infinity Ward should go back to the drawing board 
 and take a long hard look at balancing their gameplay and making their future games more competitive.
 
  
  I give this game an 8.0 and I think its worth the time and money invested. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: WitcherWolf
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 10, 2008 10:30 am PT
Review:  Call of Duty 4: Modern Warfare in single player was fine and a great training ground for multi-player. 
 The single player was guided to the point of very easy and left very little to the imagination 
 spare one or two of the chapters  Sniper task was great. I have never been a huge multi-player 
 or internet gamer though  that is until CoD4. The multi player is simply addictive and the leveling 
 of the game and the challenges are what keep you coming back. Every time I log on I find myself 
 reviewing the challenges and unlocks on the weapons, reviewing what is within reach and gunning 
 for it, excuse the pun. The maps never leave you board and on the days you are feeling you are 
 the best, there is always someone on the net to put it all back into perspective. It has become 
 my Number 1 game for 2007 outranking Crysis by a long way  for internet play that is. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ComicalOwnage
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 10, 2008 10:10 am PT
Review:  Up until now Call of duty was a long running series of Second World War tales, collided together 
 into the battles against the uprising Nazi regime. With the British, Russian and Americans in the 
 war that changed historyetcetc. We all know the concept. Of course, the long running series has 
 its downfalls, from the excellent PC series by Infinity Ward to the lower levelled console versions 
 by Treyarch. 
  
  People to day are being impatient, and feel in all a bit pissed off, with the fact that every Call 
 of Duty game so far is set in the deeply over used WWII concept, so overly used in fact that there 
 are two games for it, Call of Duty and its so obvious rival Medal of Honor. As you may know both 
 are fighting to keep us on our toes on how gritty and horrible the war was.
  
  So what can be done, to change to the track along the trail of repetitive Nazi arse kicking? Bring 
 it to the modern world with Nazi's being replaced with nasty Russian and Middle Eastern villains 
 trying to bring a new revolution to the modern world  sounds exciting, it must be the concept 
 for a new Ghost Recon game, well no, or this wouldn't be a Call of Duty review it would be a Ghost 
 Recon review. Anyways, yes it is the return of Infinity Ward along with a huge hook up of modern 
 day weapons and plenty of ammo to share, behold Call of Duty 4: Modern Warfare in all its shininess.
 
  
  Call of Duty 4 the forth of in the series, the third created by Infinity ward. Brings us into a 
 new world of modern day warfare  this is where the review really starts  Call of Duty 4 is a 
 whole new level for Infinity Ward. CoD4 is overall an entirely made up but in a good way, since 
 they do not have to keep checking their history books dated 1939-45, they've had time to make a 
 completely new concept of the future or in their eye's the modern world. 
  
  What makes this story so intriguing is the fact that it is too short so you cannot entirely get 
 to grips to it as in many ways it happens too fast. Not a bother at all I suppose, as the game 
 itself is such an excitement from start to finish you will want to go back to it anyways.
  
  With the campaign clocking in at around 6 hours, it's always best to kick in into the game 
 in a higher difficulty, keeping the game challenging. The game play itself, however is a treat 
 and its great for the fact that it's had all its prays answered from the all mighty god of cod. 
 Through out you will find yourself in overwhelming, tank defending, tank destroying, sniper shooting, 
 bomb tackling, and special ops with a nuclear warhead through in  quite literally. 
  
  The Graphics have everything you'll find in any other modern day shooter, top notch weapons from 
 the cheap yet effective AK47, to the bullet in the head Desert Eagle, to the  
 the-target Berretta 50" Sniper rifle, to the SAS's trusty  
 Shotgun plus many, many joy to use weapons. The atmosphere is fantastic and feels you're part of 
 it all, right down to the bullet in the head of a political leader to the final breathes of a solider 
 caught in atomic radiation. 
  
  Throughout your little terrorist arse-kicking missions, you will meet up with some varied range 
 of characters, from a hard SAS Captain with a moustache no bloke has had since the 19th century, 
 to an American Sergeant who always carries a LMG, even during recon missions. Of course, not to 
 forget the characters you play. 
  
  Although the campaign is based around playing as the British SAS bloke Sgt John "Soap" MacTavish 
 and American Marine Corp bloke Sgt Paul Jackson, at most you will find yourself as SAS Soap from 
 near enough start to finish. Not a problem at all, since there is so much mindless shooting action 
 from both sides of the story you would not care even if you were the baddies for a mission  indecently 
 you are not just to point out, would be good though. 
  
  The Multiplayer is where the action really kicks you in the head; it's so over packed with treats 
 and perks! This is one reason why Call of Duty 4 is worth getting for just the multiplayer. Multiplayer 
 has a full range all weapons from the campaign AK, M16 etc... etc... With however completely customisable 
 equipment, from the attachments to the camouflage, you will never be far from someone who has a 
 Green camouflaged assault rifle with grenade attachment. 
  
  The perks are of course the main point of the customisable-ness of CoD4 MP with perks ranging from 
 simple advantage one's like steady aiming and more bullet damage, to the more annoying one's like 
 grenade dropping after death and last stand pistol shooting. There are perks for every type of 
 player camper, sniper, run and gun and more. This means the lifespan of playing Call of Duty 4 
 surpasses the point of multiplayer gaming to where you forget to eat, and yet you still play all 
 in a good way.
  
  Overall, the game itself is worth just the multiplayer alone, that's not in saying avoid the campaign, 
 no, the campaign is well set out and even though it's short, it still leaves you with that full 
 on short but sweet feeling at the end, even if it does have a completely pointless and random epilogue 
 at the end. Some issues are of course are to be pointed out, but these are only minor. For a fact 
 that the game has been patched many times, but still has some problems regarding the multiplayer 
 ranking and connectivity  as said only minor. 
  
  Still the game none the less deserves to have its right-full place in anyone's gaming collection, 
 and is for anyone a fan of the series or new to the series. Lets hope to see a whole new range 
 of Modern Call of Duty sequels coming our way.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: hassam7
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 10, 2008 6:40 am PT
Review:  Wow I really love this game! Especially the last level in which u have to kill Imran Ghaez and 
 it is sooooo cool the ending. I also love the level in which the nuclear bomb explodes that level 
 is so cool and the bomb and mist are so realistic. I love the graphics very detailed, crisp and 
 its just so clear! The gameplay is really fun and simple and the missions are enjoyable right to 
 the end. There are 20 authentic missions which take u to a whole new level of excitement. The controls 
 work really well and the weapons and noise of them is wonderful. The sound of explosions and music 
 of war and rpgs is so nice and it is so pleasant to the ear. Also going in helicopters and rescuing 
 other squad mates is an enjoyable experience and no doubt this game is one of the best FPS's out 
 there.
  
  This is a masterpiece and a great addition to the COD series! 
  
  Btw I don't own the game I played it at my friend's house. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dwilson32
Rating: 6.5
Date: Feb 10, 2008 1:14 am PT
Review:  Ok, it is a good game where FPS games are concerned. My problem with it is that it is like any 
 other FPS out there, only with nicer graphics. Does it deserve a 10? Heck no! If it is going to 
 be mediocre then it gets a mediocre rating. 
  
  I will say that the graphics are phenominal. I haven't seen an FPS like this one that performs 
 so smoothly with this quality of graphics.
  
  The sound is pretty much like most other FPS war games out there. When you shoot, it goes boom, 
 when you run, you hear your feet in the dirt, when you reload, there is clicking. Nothing really 
 special about the sound.
  
  The weapons are pretty standard for this age. You have variants of your standard semi-auto rifles, 
 fully auto weapons, pistols, grenades, and rocket launchers (or RPGs) .
  
  The maps are somewhat small and tight for a game like this. 
  
  Just like the Battlefield series 
 you have a ranking system that allows for unlocks and things, so that is not original.
  
  There is nothing really spectacular about this game other than it is one more FPS we can enjoy. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dark_enigma
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 9, 2008 10:55 am PT
Review:  Graphics: 9 / 10
  
  Well as most would admit, the detail of COD4 is pretty good. Though I gave it a point less is because 
 as good as it may look, it isn't really ground breaking. They made a not so unique idea (modern 
 combat) and up'ed the detail by just a bit but not a whole lot. But the big thing for me about 
 COD4 is the fact that it is playable and still looks a little bit good even on Medium Settings 
 (turned off: Specular Map, Shadows, Blur, and Glow for that matter) it doesn't look like clay. 
 Take a look at Bioshock, at high settings it looks oh so good, but then put it on medium and a 
 lot of detail has been removed.
  
  
  Sound: 9 / 10
  
  With today it is almost impossible to go wrong with sounds. It is relatively easier to capture 
 the sound of an M249 gunshot than produce the 3D model required for it. I ain't really a fan of 
 ambient music but for the whole single player, the sound was pretty much alright. 
  
  
  Gameplay: 10 / 10
  
  A classic fps style gameplay. Though it is interesting that game makers 
 are moving away from the health bar and just going on to visually present low, medium and good 
 health. It is actually harder to make a computed risk if you don't have an exact value of the life 
 of the character. Though this may sound bad, it is actually a pretty good system as it emphasizes 
 that you have one life, and take care of it! They're not the first on a lot of things here such 
 as the throwing back of the grenade, self-regenerating life, no health bars and sprinting. Though 
 they were able to mix it up into a good single and multiplayer experience.
  
  
  Story: 9/10
  
  This is the first fps that has a story that takes multiple points of view that 
 actually worked for me. It is interesting to follow the different story paths of the two characters 
 but still remain focused on the single goal of the two. There is actually enough diversity to create 
 missions with different goals and paths to achieve them. It is also successful in putting you in 
 the shoes and the eyes of what marines and special forces go through, though the accuracy of which 
 may be debatable but it's still pretty good as a game. One downside is that I felt that the story 
 was pretty short, as I was able to finish it in a span of around 2 days of non-continous play.
 
  
  
  
  Overall:
  
  A nice fps game overall. One of the better games that give you enough reason to move away from 
 the aging multiplayer games such as CS: Source. Also it packs a good enough storyline that would 
 keep you hooked until it is finished. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: reprogramming
Rating: 6
Date: Feb 8, 2008 12:38 pm PT
Review:  I do not know was going on in this word. Is everybody crazy? This game is not nearly as good as 
 everybody say. If you want to know why keep reading.
  
  Graphics: Good but not amazing. There are many games out there that look so much better. The textures 
 feel flat and the background landscape looks like a cartoon. 
  
  GAMEPLAY: Arcade. Is this the kind of shooter that people like nowadays? This is how it works: 
 You aim your target, then the cross aim become red, then you click. Your target is dead... next. 
 This game is so arcade!!! There is no skills involved. But this is what many players seem to love... 
 it feels "right" for them. There are more annoying details:
  1. Enemies re-spawn all the time. 
  2. The game moves forward when you move from one area to 
 another. It does not matter if you shoot enemies or not.
  3. There is not physics. The are just a couple of objects that move when you shoot them and it 
 feels unnatural. 
  4. The game is very scripted and required very little input from you. It is like going to the movies 
 but much more expensive. 
  
  SOUND: The weapon sound really bad, something like... pang-pang!! it is quite ridiculous actually. 
 Also the soldiers say things such as "go, go, go" and "now". It is embarrassing if you think about 
 it. 
  
  VALUE: 5 hours single player. Like most adult gamers I don't like multi-player, especially if it 
 has voice support (you shoud know why) . So $50 for 5 hours gameplay... (that is $10 per hour) .
 
  
  I can not believe that people considerer this game wonderful or realistic. I am not going to read 
 any more gamers reviews unless they certified to be 10 years or older . Maybe I should stop playing 
 and finish my PhD, maybe I to old to play video-games....
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: gangguard
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 8, 2008 9:43 am PT
Review:  The game has many features of good multiplayer shooters, simple in terms of scoring, killing, teams, 
 weapon/class customisation. It also has followed the trend of a ranking system to pull players 
 into playing longer.
  
  Graphics, the graphics in this game is top notch, and to make things better an average computer 
 can run it at fairly high settings at no loss of performance. Performance is an important factor 
 in multiplayer gaming as it can result in loss of opportunity to gain score. The graphics are very 
 realistic, it really immerses the player into the game, grass and ambient effects add to the glamour. 
 Players meld into the environment better than most games, a ghillie suit soldier really blends 
 in and camouflages like in real life.
  
  The plot of the single player is really well done, it can easily be made into a blockbuster film, 
 the use of war quotes and tragic endings add to the drama and emotions as experienced in real war. 
 The missions are really well thought out, the ghillie suit missions was easily my favourite as 
 it really showed me what's like camouflaging into the grass and the effects give a very cinematic 
 feeling. The second favourite was the AC-130 mission where you are on a plane shooting targets 
 on the ground, it was very realistic and immersive, it feels like you are actually doing it as 
 it is very close to the real thing.
  
  This game is for anyone, experienced or not experienced in FPS, it can easily be mastered and anyone 
 can enjoy the game with no fuss. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hasanb1986
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 7, 2008 11:34 am PT
Review:  just realistic GAME just realistic GAME just realistic GAME just realistic GAME just realistic 
 GAME just realistic GAME just realistic GAME just realistic GAME
  just realistic GAME just realistic GAME just realistic GAME just realistic GAME just realistic 
 GAME just realistic GAME just realistic GAME just realistic GAME
  just realistic GAME just realistic GAME just realistic GAME just realistic GAME just realistic 
 GAME just realistic GAME just realistic GAME just realistic GAME
  just realistic GAME just realistic GAME just realistic GAME just realistic GAME just realistic 
 GAME just realistic GAME just realistic GAME just realistic GAME
  just realistic GAME just realistic GAME just realistic GAME just realistic GAME just realistic 
 GAME just realistic GAME just realistic GAME just realistic GAME 
::::::

::::::
UserName: perlox
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 7, 2008 10:56 am PT
Review:  Call of Duty 4 is definitely the best competitive shooter of 2007. It has an excellent single player 
 that pits you against waves of enemy soldiers in a truly war-torn environment. Every moment was 
 heart-pounding, white knuckle action that I can play through over and over again.
  There is also the arcade mode which lets you play through old levels trying to score the highest 
 points or race against the clock. It's not fancy or very original but it definitely adds just a 
 little more to the single player experience.
  The multiplayer won't let you down either. It's fast, deadly, and addicting. Anyone who enjoyed 
 previous CoD action will be pleased with Modern Warfare. There isn't a huge map list, but there 
 are plenty of new custom maps out there which are very well done. Multiplayer also uses a ranking 
 system to allow veteran players more options when customizing their character. It definitely is 
 worth upping your skills to further your ratio.
  I highly recommend this game to anyone. If you haven't played it yet you are definitely missing 
 out on a prime shooter. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: onuruca
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 1, 2008 5:32 pm PT
Review:  1-2.
  
  CoD-4 is a very good game and the action won't stop a minute. If you are not a mp player the single 
 player of the game can be finished in 6 hours and this can make you frustrated. Cod 4 graphics 
 are nice but on some levels it makes you thing it's not good at all. They could have been worked 
 on the graphics a bit more. Seriosly we are in 2008 the water looks worser than it was in Hitman-Blood&money 
 which is a game from 2006. Also being in Russia in one mission and then in Arabistan isn't very 
 nice. Other than these the storyline is very original and it's nice too see good old Captain Price 
 again. Also the voice acting is decent too.
  
  About mp; i'm not much of a mp player but i tried cod4's mp and i can't stop laying it. the level 
 system, challange system evertyhing is great about multiplayer.
  
  So Cod4 is a 9 point game but it's a bit sad that it lost some elements from the previous games. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MaDmAn17590
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 7, 2008 5:48 am PT
Review:  Warning: Highly Addictive! Best Call Of Duty in the series!
  
  Graphics: This would have to be close to some of the best First Person Shooter graphics i have 
 seen next to some games out there. Without the detail in this game ontop of other things i don't 
 think this game would be what it is today.
  
  Game-play: Amazing game-play online and offline! Offline game-play is short but still very fun 
 and not many games are like it. Online game-play is even better than offline and includes the chance 
 to go up ranks by killing other players and completeing various challenges that keep you going 
 for a long time. But for online and offline the possibility of driving vehicles has been taken 
 away!
  
  Sound: In any game sound is a key component in making a game good. In Call Of Duty the sound in 
 unbelievable. The guns sound amazing especially with a good set of speakers or even without. Explosions 
 can shock you and come from any angle.
  
  Graphics: 9/10
  Game-Play: 10/10
  Sound: 9-9.5/10
  
  
  This game deserves and should get nothing lower than 9 but i give it 
 10/10! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Crusak
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 5, 2008 8:19 pm PT
Review:  Runs smooth as butter on my new PC. Looks fantastic. Game play is challenging, the fast pace of 
 multi-player is intoxicating.
  
  Customization is the greatest feature built into the game. The ability to create custom kits, and 
 the perks allow players to incorporate earned 'hacks' into their gameplay. And I think that is 
 a plus. This is the best FPS multi-player game I've ever played.
  
  After building my new PC (scored 11,200 on 3dmark06) I bought and installed Crysis, Call of Duty 
 4, The Orange Box, and some other games. I installed my older FPS games (Battlefield 1942/Desert 
 Combat, Battlefield 2, Far Cry, and some others) . Compared to the thousands of hours I've spent 
 playing FPS games over the years this game simply rocks. COD 4 is the benchmark game for what FPS 
 games should be. GG. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Brendonius
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 5, 2008 1:45 am PT
Review:  What seemed impossible, Activision & Infinity Ward have not only done, but have excelled at it: 
 merging awesome game play with a new story line and packaging it with stunning graphics and loaded 
 with new features Call of Duty 4  Modern Warfare!
  
  Merging awesome game play with a new story line and packaging it with stunning graphics and loaded 
 with new features Call of Duty 4  Modern Warfare could have been the greatest mistake or the 
 ultimate success story!
  
  By far CoD4 is the best First Person Shooter (FPS) follow up to come with a history of previous 
 top notch games. If you enjoyed the original Call of Duty and were amazed by the United Offensive 
 expansion and then was mind-blown by the next in the series: Call of Duty 2, then Call of Duty 
 4  Modern Warfare will need to be in your collection.
  
  It has the same "feel" as you love about the previous editions: the action, the story line, the 
 characters and missions but is up sized and maxed out with an all new time zone, amazing graphics, 
 intense game play and super multiplayer action.
  
  The single player might be slightly on the short side but all is forgiven by the action packed, 
 heart pounding multiplayer mode. Ranking, perks, classes, new weapons, UAV's and air strikes to 
 name a few are some of the new features packed into the multiplayer mode an results in an intense 
 gaming experience.
  
  The graphics are stunning, the physics great, awesome effects, dramatic music and interactive cinematic 
 all add to the marvel of this game a true classic to be and a must have to own! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tialian
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 4, 2008 11:27 pm PT
Review:  This was my first CoD game. The previous versions I never bothered trying as I was already burnt 
 out on WWII shooters long before the first CoD came out.
  
  I tried the single player first and I really liked it, although I still haven't finished the whole 
 thing because I like the multiplayer part of shooters the most.
  
  When I first tried the multiplayer I was really disappointed because I didn't like the idea of 
 spawning on players and dying so quickly. I put the game down for a while until I felt like giving 
 it another chance.
  
  When I picked up the multiplayer again for some reason I viewed it in a whole new light. As a veteran 
 player of fps games I had to get used to the fact that CoD4 is a realistic shooter. I had gotten 
 too used to being able to take a lot of hits before being taken down in other shooters currently 
 on the market.
  
  The upside to the game is you rank up really fast (I was top rank in under a week of regular play) 
 and using the feats you can come up with some pretty interesting and fun to play custom classes. 
 The weapons are really well balanced, I went all the way up to the top of the list using the 50 
 cal sniper rifle and the deagle and now I've found myself going back down the list because each 
 weapon has its own strengths and weaknesses.
  
  Personally I think hardcore mode doesn't belong in the game. Bullets already do lethal damage in 
 normal mode. With hardcore mode the bullet damage is increased... because of this it makes some 
 feats worthless. No need for increased bullet damage when you already kill with one shot, no need 
 for increased life when you STILL die in one shot. The most annoying feat in the game is Martyrdom 
 where a player drops a live grenade when they die. If I could choose one feat to get rid of that 
 would be the one... but hey, if it wasn't for that feat noobs might never get any kills ;)
  
  The biggest disappointment about the game is that its like a lot of the other shooters out 
 right now in that clan support and team play is severely lacking. I remember before the game came 
 out they talked about being able to join a server as a squad which apparently never made it into 
 the game. There isn't even a friends list, you end up having to use 3rd party software like xfire.
 
  
  The reason why I say "been there, done that" is because CoD4 will hook you just long enough to 
 play out the multiplayer experience as a loner. I have two guys I regularly play with on the same 
 team but we don't actually do anything as a squad because there are no squads in the game. BF2042 
 improved in clan and squad features although I think the weapons in the game are horrible which 
 is why I didn't play beyond the demo. At least in BF2 the noob weapons are decent and can be just 
 as good as the unlocks. The noob weapons in BF2042 were almost worthless... but I digress.
  
  When are fps developers going to get the hint that its the team play that keeps people playing 
 long after the single player experience has been exhausted?
  
  Developers need to take a note from PlanetSide, a game that came out in 2003 that would have died 
 out long ago due to lack of developer support. It still survives today (barely) because when it 
 comes to working as a team no other fps can beat it. If PlanetSide would have had developer support 
 from the beginning I think it would really be something amazing today. Too bad SOE was blind to 
 the jewel that they had. Unfortunately every other developer out there is blind to the potential 
 that a new modern day game like it would have.
  
  So... buy CoD4 if you need a new fps to rank up in, but just like most other fps games to date - 
 once you get up to the top rank and there is nothing else to gain and the only thing to do is kill 
 whore by yourself for no reason - you will move on to something else. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: eht
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 4, 2008 11:22 pm PT
Review:  its a great game but it is short.. well very short period.. i have not tried patch 1.4 or 1.5 i 
 had read folks seem to have more trouble with the game after they patch.. game freezing locking 
 up or cant join servers what ever.. or instructions at patch download sites are confusing.. or they 
 talk about patch for cd or dvd versions not labeled right or something.. i dont know? but im using 
 1.3 fixed the lean problem.. i never lean any way..
  
  my game seems perfect to me.. no crashes works and looks great out the box.. but id like more content. and 
 play the new maps. as is i can play from saves and arcade.. if i patch and mess it up.. i will not 
 play any more.. im not sure why my zdsoft game recorder will not work with cod4 if zd is running 
 cod4 will freeze will not start.. i mean even if not recording.. if i have zdsoft loaded and waiting 
 cod4 will not start.. maybe its the copy right stuff.. i dont know? the lil i played mp was cool 
 i guess.. folks are said to be making larger maps.. i had read of cheaters the first few days the 
 game came out.. i guess that will be stopped.. id like to patch.. i just dont want head akes 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DarKLink26
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 4, 2008 8:42 pm PT
Review:  Wooooowww.... just wooooowww....
  I never knew a game so fantastic could ever be created during my lifetime. I don't have the words 
 to describe just how good this game is! The story is fantastic with the greatest detail in graphics 
 and theme. The story mode sucks you right in. Even though the story isn't very long it is very 
 emotional and deep within just a short amount of time. It gives you the sensation that you know 
 those people. That you have fought right by them and killed with them; that is how good this game 
 is. The story's plot twist are just amazing. 
  
  Multiplayer....
  not just any ordinary shooter. the kill streak function is a great way to get a lead. from airstrikes 
 to helicopters. the great custom features are a good way to keep the game interesting...
  
  I just don't know how to describe great this game is.. my words aren't really the best chosen for 
 this, but you should really buy this game and experience it for yourself. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nyc_hunter
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 4, 2008 9:13 am PT
Review:  OK, by now you've seen the reviews, and probably know this is a good game. I am not a first person 
 shooter (FPS) gamer, but I have logged a lot of online hours on this one. The single player is 
 a nice little thrill ride, and the "real" feel of the weapons and the fantastic graphics, along 
 with customizing with the "perk" system makes this a fun and satisfying game.
  
  Now, that being said, there are a number of things that I hope will improve this already great 
 game in the next installment in this series (or even with downloadable add-ons?) :
  
  1) Add Co-op play - especially split screen. Chasing your buddy locally on split screen is not 
 that great - resistance: FOM and ghost recon have co-op modes, so lets get it in the next COD4... 
 please!
  
  2) Let me customize my character's appearance - even a little bit. Gamers like to customize, as 
 if I really needed to state the obvious.
  
  3) I hate the way the knife attack is implemented. It is really an "old school" thing - it is incredibly 
 unrealistic. Many games have much better stealth attacks and melee. The instant running kill you 
 can get is cheap. Basically you can run around and win every match by using the instant kill of 
 the mighty carving knife... leave this in "old school" and replace it with a better system. 
  
  4) More custom class slots, please - I think it's 5 now? - well make it ten. And allow the 
 customs classes to be used offline too. Just unlock them for all users offline - why not? 
  
  5) Weapon cameos - let the secondary weapon use it too, and let all the weapons get to gold. 
 What's with the gold uzi, AK47 and dragonov only? Who's side are we on anyway!!?? A couple more 
 cameosalong the way would be fun, too, for all those dang headshots you need to get.
  
  6) IMPORTANT - why can't I shut off the people using mics? A MUTE button for that is essential 
 - I really don't want to listen to some idiot kids using foul language. I cannot imagine why there 
 is no mute available.
  
  7) Tinker with the game modes a bit more - find ways of steering thing to more organized group 
 play. The issue is that all the action takes place in the middle of a wide open map, which tends 
 to result in a sort of "team free for all" unless you are lucky to find an organized group, which 
 is rare. 
  
  For example, a cool way to improve team matches is better placement of the objectives, or even 
 locking out parts of the map to force certain areas to be fought over that normally would be ignored. 
 If you have played you might have noticed there are some very cool areas on the maps that just 
 get ignored because they are so far off center - you could basically get tons of variety on the 
 same map by more careful objective placement, or adding some temporary fences to force you to use 
 new map areas. 
  
  Hopefully - with the experience gained from this release - some refinement of the game modes will 
 occur in the next release (or download!)
  
  8) Allow custom set-ups to be shared and played, and still gain experience points. Why not just 
 allow someone to join the "private" matches and list the rule changes? Oh, and add a "no instant 
 knife kills" rule for me...
  Also - add a penalty if the "host" quits early - there seem to be a number of people who quit while 
 they are ahead to get a cheap win. 
  
  9) Improve the online interface - mainly to allow a couple friends to stay in a group. Everytime 
 the "host" quits the group gets fouled up. There are definitely some technical issues that need 
 to be ironed out. 
  
  10) Of course, add MORE MAPS, MORE WEAPONS, MORE MODES, MORE GAMES, more, more, more!
  
  11) 
 Wall hugging action would be nice. rainbow 6 vegas does that very well, and it would be great if 
 it could be implemented. 
  
  OK - that would be about enough to make a solid 9.0 game into a crazy 10.0 perfect as far as this 
 reviewer see it, anyway. I am not worried about the length of the single player if they make co-op 
 maps (I guess why not so you could try them single player, too) and more robust, focused action 
 on the multiplayer modes. 
  
  This game is a very exciting step up from the WW II COD franchise. Go get it and play it if you 
 are looking to try a little FPS combat action!
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: solidsnake_971
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 11, 2008 10:43 am PT
Review:  The Call of Duty Franchise has always bin great.
  But this game is revolutionary and awesome.
  After playing through the amazing singleplayer which 
 is short, thoroughly enjoyable, you can take it online for the experience of your life.
  The online part of CoD4 is clearly its strong part.
  As you progress through the ranks, you earn 
 unlocks and weapon modifications that helps you in your quest for domination.
  Its addictive. And supernaturally fun.
  Once you start playing this game, your life goes cruise 
 control.
  You always think about it, and you want to get fraggin.
  The only thing I miss is a friends function and a "join by ip" option.
  The custom classes part 
 is awesome, and you can create a class for each of your playing styles.
  Rambo, jihad, sniper, assassin, etc.
  The possibilities are limitless.
  Hours of fun in this 
 game! go buy it!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: dahacker89
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 3, 2008 8:25 pm PT
Review:  Call of Duty 4: Modern Warfare arms gamers with an arsenal of advanced and powerful modern day 
 firepower and transports them to the most treacherous hotspots around the globe to take on a rogue 
 enemy group threatening the world. As both a U. S. Marine and British S. A. S. soldier fighting through 
 an unfolding story full of twists and turns, players use sophisticated technology, superior firepower 
 and coordinated land and air strikes on a battlefield where speed, accuracy and communication are 
 essential to victory. The epic title also delivers an added depth of multiplayer action providing 
 online fans an all-new community of persistent, addictive and customizable gameplay. Overall, Call 
 of Duty 4: Modern Warfare provides with more pure intensity than either Halo 3 or Bioshock. While 
 it lacks the storytelling or some of the features of those games, it's the only FPS where I felt 
 physically spent after I was done with it. Make this a part of your collection.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: chris3274
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 3, 2008 4:49 pm PT
Review:  Call of Duty 4 Modern Warfare was a nice change from all the World War II era games. Did they change 
 perhaps too much? Well first off the single player. There are some really good solid single player 
 missions. They are all guite linear. Go from A to B, Got it. This time around there is a story 
 thoughout the whole game. Not a bad story but seemed that it could have used a little more expansion. 
 What I mean by this is you only were given 4 missions as Sgt. Jackson and the rest were given to 
 Soap and Price. It felt that the Marines were shafted in this game. Yeah you have joint ops later 
 on but you still played as Soap. The other thing that bothered me was some of the missions had 
 you carrying a silenced weapon. Them being silenced is not what bothered me but the design of the 
 mission is what bothered me. There was no real point to have your weapon silenced after the enemies 
 know that you are here. The flashback sniper mission was the only mission where the design and 
 the weapon ever matched up. I just wished that they could have let you remove the silencer once 
 things got heated up. The enemy AI is your standard run of the mill. They'll take cover, do a litte 
 flanking and of course just standing there waiting to be shot, but their best moves are grenade 
 throwing. If grenade throwing were an event in the Olympics. These guys would have won gold medals. 
 That, at time would drive me nuts but I see why Infinity Ward did this. The mission that made me 
 say WOW was Death From Above. The best part was they couldn't shoot at you but you can do awhole 
 lot of shooting to them. The worst mission was the ones that I described earlier in this review. 
 The not so "silenced" ones. It was a good run while it lasted but it was very short. Not any real 
 motivation to go back through it. Yeah you have the Arcade Mode but really your still playing the 
 same game. I would have liked to have either seen more Marine missions or maybe some SEAL Team 
 missions. 
  
  Now onto the Multiplayer. This is the part of the game in which Infinity Ward changed too much. 
 They took out the vehicles. Why on this one? By taking them out they went back in time not ahead. 
 By taking them out they also placed themselves as just another FPS online shooter. Yes before I 
 forget they do have Perks. These are a good addition to the online experience but the Perks in 
 my opinion are not a good justification to replace vehicles. They went one step forward with Perks 
 but two step back when they left the vehilces out. The Multiplayer was okay, not as suprising as 
 the single player was. You can call in a UAV, an Airstrike, and a Helo. It's kinda been done before 
 and has been done better. The Multiplayer of COD 4 is as about as stale as another World War II 
 FPS. 
  
  Now onto sound. The voice acting was almost Hollywood quality. They fit were they were supose to 
 fit and not over do it or under do it. Just right as Goldie Lox said, this is just right. Now the 
 weapons on the other hand sounded to be under the bar. The weapons in COD 3 had a more realistic 
 sounds then COD4 does. The grenade bouncing sounds were quite unrealistic. Sounded too "Pingy" 
 but at least you knew when one was by you. There is one game that has Modern Warfare that has much 
 better sounds and that is Battlefield Bad Company. Now that is what they are supose to sound like. 
 COD 4 comes up shooting blank in this department.
  
  Now onto graphics. I have to say this is where COD 4 shines. Very good tectures and lighting. The 
 reason I say this is because of the demands of modern day game requirements. COD 4 does not need 
 very much to make it shine. You guys at Infinity Ward get a smiliy face from Wal-Mart for this 
 one. There were a few things that didn't seemed to be added and they were the Rag Time, Photo Negitive 
 cheats. The Rag Time was neat at first but soon grew very old like the silent films. The Photo 
 Negitive was very negitive. Couldn't see 5 feet in front of you. At lest you don't have to play 
 with these on.
  
  The bottom line. This is a great single player experience with a few hic-ups. A run of the mill 
 multiplayer experience. Great graphics with low requirements. Sound good at times but leaves you 
 wishing more could have been done. In my opinion this title is not worth the full retail price. 
 I got COD4 as a gift. I would suggest you do the same or wait til it comes down in price. With 
 up coming titles like Frontlines and Battlefield Bad Company. COD 4 may get their butts kicked. 
 Both of these titles have what COD 4 has to offer and they seem to be done it better than COD 4. 
 Rent COD 4 first. I can reasure you that you can beat this game in a rental if you have a 360. 
 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: raymondcs123
Rating: 7
Date: Feb 11, 2008 3:51 am PT
Review:  After the first 3 games in the series about WWII, so now the Call of Duty series has turned their 
 heads to the present, while unlike battlefield jumping around Vietnam and gulf wars, it turns right 
 into the present and sets as the Russian sides are having rebels and somehow again Americans have 
 to save the day uninvited (Well the British are invited though) .
  Though the story increases to be much more intense than the previous games, the gameplay doesn't 
 appear to improve much. Again you get lots of weapons to choice this time, modern ones, maybe a 
 GL, a scope and so on and you go shooting some rebels. The weapons feel very much the same and 
 the sounds are very disapponiting, unsatisfied soft clicks rather making things noisy. One good 
 thing though that you get more rockets to shoot in this game.
  And once again in the fashion of you somehow being dragged to every special task, you are always 
 called to use something special, which can be annoying sometimes as there isn't a clear reason 
 why you were chosen when you were fighting on the 2nd floor and needed to go down and get it while 
 there are 20 teamates next to the rocket and just refuses to use it.
  Speaking of teamates, your teamates are pretty much stupid comparing to the standards of today. 
 In WWII, you can forgive if your guys go up and start punching around or cowering by retreating. 
 But c'mon, today's US marines are supposed to be tatical, they act exactly the same as the guys 
 in COD2 and COD3, and they always happen to be following you around (even though you play as Private 
 First Class for the USMC, a sergeant in the SAS) , even for Captains, they say "Hey we gotta hurry 
 up!" Instead they just lag around you, instead of bringing the team's spirit to move foward.
  As for tension in gameplay, very well you expect all sorts of excuses to make you shoot more and 
 shorten your time limits. It pretty feels much stupid as one of the most common reasons are "Helicopters 
 are running out of fuel after flying twenty minutes" and so there you go you have seven minutes 
 to shoot 50 guys and reach the helicopter.
  The combat again feels the same and very outdated and stupid in the game. As again the only sentence 
 I can use is "Move foward or you might as well wait tell you're ammo depletes" Why? That's because 
 the enemies happen to have infinite reinforcements. Let's say that you happen to be a sniper or 
 playing hardened or veteran difficulty, you are forced to use mid-range or long range attacks, 
 then after each shot another guy comes around again and replaces the guy you shot. This feels fraustrating 
 as it forces you to take a risk and move foward and kill the enemy's spawn or die trying. And all 
 these happens all around the game and basically you're just repeating this time to time the whole 
 game until you reach the end of the level. By the time you really played to the end, you will unlock 
 arcade mode and you can shoot around the same, only with score points. But consider that you've 
 repeated these shooting and run for the clock without a clear reason a hundred times, I don't think 
 you really are gonna play that. Though all these disappointments about replaying there is enemy 
 intelligence where you can pick up in the level and use some official cheats. They are quite fun 
 and amusing sometimes, especially "Ragtime Warfare", which speeds up the game by four times and 
 it turns into a video from the 1920s and bring some very fast piano music and die soon. Though 
 not much of a chance of survival, it's fun to watch these guys moving fast and with the music kicking 
 in.
  Though the game does bring 2 new things including the gunship mission and some "Stealth Missions". 
 The gunship again has no reason for you being in it as you're supposed to be an SAS sergeant and 
 has to the RAF Dirty Job without a clear explaination. Though without reason, personally that's 
 the best mission I can tell you to expect. Why do I add quote notes on Stealth Mission? Simple, 
 because these stealth are total lies. Everything is purely scripted to force your enemies to be 
 blind for a while and forces you to do whatever the game commands you to. Prove? Simple, All I 
 did was happen to shoot a guy in a building that they told me not to, as the game told me my ghillie 
 suit should protect me from being spotted while proning. I sprinted 20 metres down the road and 
 waited as the game warned me somebody was alerted. To my surprise that after one minute, three 
 guys who clearly have just spawned from the map knew my position and just started blowing me to 
 pieces. While clearly scripted, the stealth here is absolutely a disappointment to Splinter Cell 
 fans. Another example, in a mission you have to get through a field "undetected", while I really 
 did make through the field with the team undetected, suddenly these guys just stopped and refused 
 to move. After a while as the enemy patrol comes close, we were spotted and got pinned by a helicopter. 
 Consider just story driven things can be stupid, it's better make things logical. Seriously
  Talking about scripted, everything in the game is pretty straight foward and scripted, the level 
 designs are incredebly ingenious and stupid. You happen have to follow the straight road and shoot 
 people and run foward and maybe die. Conside many games now have designed alternatives and flanking 
 posiitons, the developers clearly ignored to be realistic and set up roadblocks in alleyways and 
 make things look stupid. Also that though the new thin wall penetration, it feels stupid when you 
 shoot through as the wall doesn't seem to react but the other side of the wall the guy gets blown.
 
  The physics are pretty weel disappointing, as again whatever is destroyed, unsurprisingly again, 
 is scripted, there is nothing for you to destroy for your amusement in the game and you can shoot 
 30 rockets to a wall and the wall doesn't even react with cracks or turns black from the explosion. 
 Though all this disappointment you can shoot cars and suddenly they will explode. But consider 
 the fact that shooting any part would blow it up (Not the engine nor the fuel tank) feels yet again, 
 scripted and unrealistic.
  Graphics are pretty well done to today's standard, with the cool lighting and burning fires around 
 it does give you one sense of reality back from all these stupid scripted things.
  The weapons, though you get to have over 30 of them, feels almost the same as everything, as there 
 is no difference between an AK47 and an M16A4, though one uses the 5.56x2.4mm and has better accuracy, 
 while the other has 7.62x4.6mm and sacrifices accuracy, the designers were to lazy to even to think 
 about making some difference or go and learn from the army, instead just turning everything the 
 same besides the sound, the name and it's outshape. Explosions again are very disappointing as 
 your GL and Rocket blast perimeter instead of around ten metres you've seen in the movies, unless 
 you hit your target straight at him, the guy is gonna survive the blow most llikely. Also the unlike 
 kicking up debris, they just blow and some particles come up and disappear like vapour.
  Speaking of sounds, again you can expect the same lines from the COD2 and COD3. YES!! SAME LINES, 
 your teamates will say "Potato Masher, Run!" Conside the fact that your enemies aren't using stick 
 grenades that look like a potato masher anymore, it just feels plain. As mentioned before, the 
 gun sounds are purely soft little clicks (even for rockets!) and doesn't make a fighting atmosphere.
 
  The game's main highlight (I mean only highlight) , is the multiplayer. As improved a lot from COD2 
 and COD3, which all you did was shoot around, now you have levels to advance up to 55. As you advance 
 each level you will get a new weapon or weapon attachment (such as the useless GL) , this makes things 
 having a desire to play unlike the SP which is entirely broken and stupid.
  COD4 is very much a great disappointment to me (I can't say to everyone since everybody is giving 
 it a very high score o_O) , the Singleplayer mode feels entirely broken and not much work has been 
 done on this game's physics, besides copying the very same scripted things from COD2 and COD3. 
 Though with this Multiplayer improvement, the game is totally feels dragged by recycling almost 
 everything from the previous WWII games and so for I would say this game isn't worth your choice 
 for real high-expectation players. If you're looking for another run-and-gun game, this is certainly 
 a very good choice for you. But for players who really want some reality, this isn't your choice.
 
  
  (NOTE: BEFORE I CHECKED MY GRAMMAR FOR THIS REVIEW I HAD 2 OUT OF 5 RECOMMENDED. I'M NOT SURE IF 
 GS IS REALLY GOING TO KEEP THAT AFTER THIS GRAMMAR EDIT. AND I REALLY DID PREDICT I WOULD GET MORE 
 REBUKES THAN RECOMMENDS SINCE EVERYBODY GIVES THIS A 10. I'M NOT BUYING BUYEST OR SOMETHING BUT 
 REALLY THIS GAME IS A HUGE LETDOWN TO ME. REBUKE ME ALL YOU LIKE, THIS IS JUST WHAT I THINK AND 
 I DO RESPECT PEOPLE WHO LIKE THIS) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jorge_Cervera
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 2, 2008 11:52 pm PT
Review:  Call of Duty 4: Modern Warfare
  
  MISSION INTRODUCCION: Maybe it's too late to make a review of this game soldier, but I never played 
 something like this before, there is something about this game that really put you in the battlefield, 
 and I don't know, but the industry could learn something about this game, in a time when "Big Name 
 Titles" are postpone, this game deliver a unique experience, that many games that have long developed 
 times can't.
  
  GAMEPLAY: Call of Duty 4: Modern Warfare is a short experience in his Single-Player portion, but 
 never the less, is a unique ride from star to finish, "FPS" have one problem, even the best like 
 Half Life or Halo, and that problem is that before you reach the "Ho my God" moments, you have 
 to past hallways, and another boring things full of bad dudes to have the good stuff, CoD 4 cuts 
 all that and put you in situation after situation that you may have a hard time catching your breath, 
 you go to Chernobyl to make a snipe shot, you are in the middle of a nuclear explosion, you are 
 in sinking ship, you are in a road making your way to safety, only to put some of the moments you 
 will live in the game, yeah, Halo 3 is long, HalF Life 2 is even bigger, but if you put the moments 
 you remember the most, and compare them to Call of Duty 4, you couldn't make the half of this game 
 with the two together, maybe is short but its intense, dramatic, and satisfying, the difficult 
 its excellent, you will respect the veteran, hard its fair but not forgiven and normal it's a sweet 
 but a respectable ride, the missions are linear, but the levels give you a lot of option to attack 
 the enemy, its like a rollercoaster, the ride is determine by the road, but you can chose the seat 
 that please you the most, it's a cinematic experience, the history is like a big action Hollywood 
 movie, its simple, but the way that is deliver it's that is how games should tell they histories, 
 twist, betrayals, plots, to make the things simple, the soldiers fight impossible battles thinking, 
 "This couldn't make any worst" and !BANG!, something big happens, with a good aiming system, a 
 lot of weapons, perfect control and good vehicle sequences, this game its like no other.
  
  SOUND AND GRAPHICS: Perfect, you don't believe me? Play this game and you will see.
  
  MULTYPLAYER: 
 Addictive, in one word, addictive, put all the good things about single player, put them a level 
 system, new abilities and weapons to learn and have, and you will have a winner.
  
  CONCLUSION: The game of the year, it came like a new and solid sequel with new environments, like 
 a good but nothing more game, and like flash grenade it surprise us with a impressive single player, 
 a good history, addictive multiplayer and with extraordinary presentation of sound and graphics, 
 this is a call to fun that you should not miss.
  
  9.5
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: emmery
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 2, 2008 7:55 am PT
Review:  This has got to be the best game i have ever player.
  
  The graphics are great and the game pay is to die for "and you will die lots". there is no need 
 to wonder around looking for silly health packs and you hardly ever run out of ammo.
  
  The story is gripping from start to finish and the action just never stops. One of the best things 
 about the game is that they put you in different settings all the time you you never get bored 
 and always have something new and exciting to do. All the weapons make a great sound and they really 
 do feel like you are ripping those bad guys apart. Your team mates do a good job of killing the 
 enemy and unlike most games you feel like you are part of the team and are there to help not one 
 of these super soldiers and that only you can get the job done you work as a team and are all equal.
 
  
  This game is impressive from the moment you start player and has a tone of replay potential. The 
 only bad thing about it is that it has to end. Cant wait for call of duty 5
  
  In short this game is just great 
::::::

::::::
UserName: samsastonmartin
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 2, 2008 4:26 am PT
Review:  Call of Duty 4 Modern Warfare is without a doubt one of the best games of 2007 and possible in 
 the history of video games. This game has made such an impact on the gaming universe and the developers 
 just can't believe it. This game is incredibly awesome! Seriously! I recommend it to everybody 
 who enjoys FPS, Multiplayer and Action becuase i just love this game! The difference with this 
 game is that it stands out in the Call Of Duty series and any FPS game for that instance. All the 
 previous games have been set in the world wars, but this one has been brought into the modern era. 
 Everything has been changed and revamped and they have done an incredible job of it. The story 
 in single player is really well done and well written, its great fun and very enjoyable to play 
 thorugh. The game's content is fantastic with unlockable instant action, perks, challenges, new 
 weapons and much, much more. The multiplayer is fantastic, one of the best ever. It has even beaten 
 HALO 3 now as the most played game on XBOX Live and that is quite an achievement by any reckoning. 
 Progressing through the ranks and gaining XP is very addicitve and makes you want to come back, 
 push it further and unlock new stuff in the game. Everything that gets unlocked is just so exciting 
 and fun to get your hands on. Plus this game has some of the best graphics ever seen on a video 
 game, they are astonishing, yet beautiful. So much time, effort and consideration has been put 
 into the rendering of the maps and players surroundings. The buildings, water, sky, helicoptors, 
 fighter jets, explosions and fire just all look so realisitc. This game is a great joy to play. 
 It is my favourite game of all time now even surpassing Counter Strike Source!! It is just such 
 a great game to play and very addiciting. I recommend it to all and thus i have explained my reasoning 
 for giving it a top rating of 10!!! You just can't get much better! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: blurrypixel
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 23, 2008 1:34 pm PT
Review:  What's to like:
  - Great story / cutscenes
  - Great voice overs
  - Superb sound effects
  - Superb graphics
  - Superb multiplayer
  - Awesome ending
  
  
 What you may not like:
  - Frontal infinite respawn can hurt some maps
  - A bit confusing at times to know who you are really playing as
  
  
  Story
  
  In short, 
 the plot is about eliminating a terrorist figure. In order to do so, you will mostly play as Sergeant 
 "Soap" MacTavish, a S. A. S. recruit. You will also get the chance to play as Sgt. Paul Jackson, 
 a USMC soldier that will often deal with missions in the Middle East. Finally, linked to the story, 
 you will also get to play a few missions as your Squad's Captain: Lt. Price.
  
  It will take you around 6 to 12 hours to complete the single player campaign, depending on the 
 level difficulty chosen and your experience with FPS'.
  
  
  Endings
  
  The story has 2 memorable endings: the official one linked to the story, and a special mission, 
 unrelated to the story, after the credits. That special mission will ask you to rescue a hostage 
 from a hijacked plane. This one is extremely entertaining and satisfying especially if done at 
 Veteran level where you have so little time to do it.
  
  
  Gameplay - move forward squad!
  
  In order to progress, the game uses known and unknown objectives. 
 Unknown objectives are invisible checkpoints you need to reach before your squad moves up (and 
 also the enemies) . In some maps, if it gets too challenging, you might have to start thinking about 
 them.
  
  There is a good variety of missions, you will be asked to snipe, protect civilians, rescue some 
 injured teammates and a lot more.
  
  
  Enemies - They are just as good as you
  
  Sure you can sneak around but know that if you fail and they spot you, chances are they will manage 
 to hit you before they go down, assuming you survive. So you will have to be extra careful or aggressive 
 depending on the situation -- hesitation will be your downfall.
  
  
  Controls
  
  Fortunately, there is no unnecessary cover system here. The standard crouch, lean left/right, prone, 
 run and jump are used instead. You will also be able to get over high fences through an animation. 
 This allows you to go over most obstacles coming your way, but know that while you are making your 
 way over an object, you cannot use your weapons. 
  
  
  Weapons & Online Play
  
  The weapons behave very realistically and one its major quality is how easy they are to handle. 
 Right clicking allows you to Aim before shooting to increase the accuracy of your shots. This is 
 especially useful online in 'Hardcore' mode where a single bullet can instantly kill a player.
 
  
  Both in the single player game and online, you can always switch your weapons with a downed opponent. 
 This is pretty useful as it ensures you never really run out of ammo and also, allows you to temporarily 
 use a weapon like a rocket launcher.
  
  Weapons can be customized as well. You can equip them with a silencer, a scope or, for some of 
 them, a grenade launcher. You also have the ability to change their skin later on once you've unlocked 
 them.
  
  The maximum rank your player can reach is 55. Still, even at 55, it doesn't mean you have unlocked 
 everything considering that many challenges are based on specific achievements. For instance, the 
 last skin of a weapon is obtained by getting a certain amount of headshots with that weapon.
  
  It will take you a lot of time to unlock every achievements and that is one great thing about 
 COD4. The community is very competitive and it gets very addictive to try to unlock every single 
 one of them.
  
  
  Graphics
  
  Graphics are very detailed and for the most part, gorgeous. There are some weather effects, like 
 hard rain and dust particles. The dynamic shadows look incredibly good and the same goes with the 
 animations that are 'on the spot' and very realistic.
  
  
  Conclusion - So much punch
  
  If you haven't played this game already, and are remotely interested in first person shooters, 
 you have to get your hands on it. Its rich, yet short, single-player campaign and its addictive 
 online play makes it a Superb experience that should not be missed.
  
  
  9.4/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nebjesus
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 31, 2008 12:25 pm PT
Review:  It's hard to believe that with all of the previous Call of Duty games being sub par with the fps 
 genre, dealing over and over again with WW2 history, that Activision have been able to create something 
 truly amazing.
  
  The largest difference in Call of Duty 4 is it's change in story, instead of it retelling the numerous 
 battle of WW2, it's now gone for a more recent and more modern background, hence the title Modern 
 Warfare. In the Single player you play as 2 soldiers, one in the USMC and the other in the British 
 SAS. The story goes that there is a terrorist who has risen to power in the middle east, who is 
 said to have numerous nuclear weapons in his possession. Almost immediately you can feel the quality 
 of this campaign, the story is surprisingly emotional in parts, and the ending is something that 
 no gamer is going to forget anytime soon. The only problem with the campaign is that it is short 
 maybe about 5-10 hours depending on the play rate, but if you busy with the campaign as well as 
 the multiplayer you could find yourself left with a very satisfying experience despite it's shortness.
 
  
  As for the multiplayer Activision have also really produced something amazing, it's essentially 
 a progressive online shooter. You go in and you can pick from certain pre made classes such as 
 assault and sniper etc. And you simply go out and gain experience playing the numerous war stricken 
 levels and highly addictive game modes we've all come to expect from the Call of Duty series. However 
 because of the class progression, you now gain experiences for everything you do in a match, from 
 simply killing someone, or to shooting down a helicopter, to even some pretty ridiculous tasks 
 such as falling down 30 feet and then dieing. As you gain experience you go up in numerous ranks, 
 theres 55 levels in total which leaves for a big hunk of content. Eventually you gain the ability 
 to create a class of your own, where you can pick your own weapon, it's attachment, the camo you 
 want to use, as well as numerous other bits and pieces you can alter in order to customize your 
 class. One of the ways in which you can alter your class is through perks, which are sort of alterations 
 which can really define how you play online, theres perks which simply add more ammo to a clip, 
 or gives more grenades and other equipment, but then you start unlocking interesting ones such 
 as getting the ability to pop out your pistol after you die, or probably the most annoying being 
 able to drop a grenade near your body after you die giving you a last minute kill.
  
  All in all Call of Duty 4 is outstanding, the game really surprised me in a lot of ways. The story 
 is such a big step from where Call of Duty 2 was, and the quality of the multiplayer has been enhanced 
 greatly on top of Activision's previous multiplayer experiences. It's simply a game that will cause 
 Call of Duty fans to go ape at, and it's most definitely worth buying if you haven't already. In 
 short, you must experience this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ferrari2001
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 31, 2008 5:35 am PT
Review:  Call of Duty 4 is a great game. It's the best of the award winning call of duty city yet. it's 
 such a great game and it acts almost like a movie.
  
  Graphics: the graphics of the game are cutting edge. It takes DX 9 to a whole new level. It is 
 one of the best graphical games of the year. It doesn't quit match up to crysis but It does look 
 pretty impressive for such a great DX 9 game. You don't even need a cutting edge system to run 
 this.
  
  Game play: the Game play in the game keeps it fun and interesting for hours to come. The only problem 
 is the campaign remains relativly short and makes you wanting more even when it is over. The campaign 
 contains 2 interwoven campaigns based in a war between Russia and the Middle East. Each side has 
 it's advantages and even amazing cut scenes to watch and enjoy. There are many game play advantages 
 and team based squad action to give you plenty of new ground to destroy.
  
  Sound: the Sound in the game makes the battlefield seem very realistic. Almost as if you were there. 
 The music is nicely composed and it matches the excitments and scenes of the game. The acting is 
 absolutely top knotch and can seem very realistic at times. Almost as a movie.
  
  Overview: This is a very great game and is a must buy for all FPS fans. Not only can you enjoy 
 an amazing SP the Multiplayer is packed and never gets boring and is definitly one of the greatest 
 Multiplayers that can be played to date. I would recommend this to any Gaming Fan of any Genre. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sledge_4314
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 31, 2008 2:49 am PT
Review:  Call of duty 4 puts you straight into action in a stormy night with your SAS teammates fast roping 
 from a black hawk and taking out half asleep terrorists with your suppressed MP5. It gave me a 
 great innovation to continue through this exciting fast paced masterpiece. It might be one of a 
 few games where you are constantly doing or are in diverse missions/situations. For example you 
 get yourself put into a president who is about to get executed. Despite the short campaign, every 
 single mission described something and not one bit forced me to lean back on my seat in bordom. 
 The multiplayer reward system was a very smart way to innovate players to stay online. However 
 it could get a bit frenetic especially in small maps with 20 or more people in the same server. 
 By then players start to shoot whatever that moved.
  Overall i believe that Call of duty 4 is the most anticipated, fast paced game a shooter could 
 be.
  If you like FPS, COD 4 is a game that you must own! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: danilocarneiro
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 30, 2008 8:06 pm PT
Review:  The graphics is absolutely amazing (I used a quad core intel processor and 512 graphic card) the 
 mix of sound, photorealistic graphic, extraordinary gameplay and a nice story makes this game the 
 best FPS ever.
  the sensation of power ( when you feel like a killer) , and at the same time, the sensation of fragility 
 are incredible presents in the game.
  The game has a lot of different kinds off missions like the sniper missions, where you need to 
 use tactics and stealth to shoot the target, or the mission on the AC-130 Bomber, it is different 
 than any mission on any FPS game.
  Anther thing in the game is that there are a lot of interactive cinematics ( They are awesome) .
 
  The story is so nice that when you get to the end of the last mission you actually get sad and 
 angry at the same time ( The ones who have already finished the game knows what i am talking about) .
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: snokdruid
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 30, 2008 1:45 am PT
Review:  Call of Duty has always been a World War 2 game, replaying some great battles from the past. Infinity 
 Ward (Developer) has figured out that WW2 has been played out. This is why the new Call of Duty 
 is a modern warfare themed shooter. Some critics have question whether the transition will work. 
 Let me tell you, it has in flying colours!
  
  The single player is really strong, intense and surprisingly short. You will probably finish this 
 game under 5 hours but it will feel so much longer from the mass amount of action you will endure. 
 You play as 2 soldiers, one from the SAS and one form the US marines. You are after a powerful 
 Russian bloke and he has some nukes that you have to recover.
  
  The game is quite the same as the older ones. The game is still all about aiming, throwing grenades 
 and just trying to remove as many heads as possible. However because of the modern change, the 
 objectives are slightly different. One of the main highlights of COD4 is the different scenarios 
 the game puts you in. Shooting from a helicopter, controlling guns from a bomber and even a 'Black 
 Hawk Down' rescue missions. This is what really highlights cod4 from other First-Person Shooters 
 that have just been released.
  
  COD has always been noted for having life-like remodeling of real life weapons. In COD4 you will 
 definitely notice the detail in the guns and how many there actually is. Shooting feels really 
 nice and real, maybe not as detailed as other games but it's still top notch. 
  
  If you have been checking out some gaming websites lately, you will probably have noticed that 
 COD4 has been given some awards. Now this is because of one of the missions you play in single-player, 
 it is absolutely heart pumping and breath taking. I won't spoil too much of it but it has to do 
 with a sniper and some creeping around action.
  
  The multiplayer side of COD4 is fantastic. It follows the same style as the previous games but 
 takes on a 'battlefield 2' award and ranking system. You get experience for everyone you kill and 
 can use this to upgrade weapons, get 'perks' which are like special abilities and get a nice rank 
 beside your name.
  
  If you haven't played COD4, make sure to put it on your shopping list soon. If you have a decent 
 PC, it is probably the best platform to play it on.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: The_Foxcono
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 29, 2008 3:15 pm PT
Review:  there is nothing regular and basic about a game of this value - i even go as far to say that it 
 is the single best multiplayer FPS on the PC ever. Thats right, I went there. Here's why:
  
  Pros:
  
  - Well first of all, a round of applause to yet another graphical achievement 
 from the Call of Duty series. Incredibly realistic, and this is the first game that has challenged 
 my 7900GS. I had to *gasp* turn down the antialiasing. Still looks like a hell of a technical achievement.
 
  
  - Same tried and true Call of Duty gameplay, even with the whole "modern" thing.
  
  - The whole "modern" thing! I expected it to be a big departure from CoD gameplay and that, well, 
 It wouldn't work all that well, but man was I wrong. It feels just like a CoD game, all of the 
 intensity, speed, it all feels just right. And yet, the modernization is great! Dizzying array 
 of weapons and a very modern feel - even the loading screens.
  
  - The Campaign, although quite short, is great from start to finish - typical CoD multiple Points 
 of View, and a great fictional war created (It's no World In Conflict story, but it's up there) .
 
  
  - Everything about the multiplayer is fantastic. First of all, they fixed the CoD2 cheating problem 
 with the addition of punkbuster. Tons of games out there, all easy to connect to. Some great game 
 modes and a great scoring system.
  
  - Achievements! I feel like I'm on XBOX Live playing Halo. You gain XP and level up through crazy 
 kills and challenges, which unlocks new weapons and perks. Beautifully done.
  
  - Perks: what a great idea. It feels almost RPG'ish, gaining new "powers". Things like Martyrdom 
 make it genius.
  
  - A few elegant touches - Last stands: so cool, knifing, throwing back grenades. Great additions. 
 
  
  - Seamlessly integrates ****s and create-a-****is a great idea and great fun.
  
  - Rewards! The kill-streak reward system is a great idea. Radar, Airstrike, Helicopters, all seamlessly 
 integrated into the game.
  
  Cons:
  
  - Campaign a tad short. No biggie.
  
  - Our UAV is online! SHUT UP! EVERY 3 SECONDS! AHHH!
  
  *Oh and I think everyone agrees with 
 me that when I refer to the CoD series, CoD3 is not included for obvious reasons. 
  
  The best multiplayer to come to the PC in ages. I love It. Great job Activision, and Infinity Ward. 
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: AtillaTheHun
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 28, 2008 2:06 pm PT
Review:  Call of duty has good graphics but apart from a painting for the sky, that was just stupid, now 
 who is silly enough to put in all those good parts and then make a sky using 1 image of a painting.
 
  
  The gameplay is very good how you can now actually shoot threw walls and do this and that.
  
 
  However in every one of these games there is either propaganda witch is extremely annoying and 
 very offensive to those like the arabian people.
  
  Or there is just plain stupidity, luckly call of duty modern combat hasnt got that, its got propganda 
 instead....
  
  The idea of using american and british soldiers is 1 boring thing because we all know that they 
 are given all that high tech crap and so on,
  
  But the question is why cant we be the rebels for once? in every shooter game you can never ever 
 be the opposing side! now thats just stupid.
  
  You guys are making stuff for the ps3 that pwns all and you cant even allow us to use the opposing 
 factions? i want to use the so called bad guys for once man, kick some ass and hopfully with out 
 propaganda spreading around making middle eastern or asain people look bad -__-
  
  However the campaign is really short, not even 1 hours worth of game play tbh.
  
  now if i 
 wanted a game that has that small amount of levels and small objectives i would go down to the 
 kids shop and by the teletubbies...
  
  The guns are cool, especially where you can change to the ak-47 or the other guns witch feel so 
 much better then those guns you start out with.
  
  When you shoot you get that bobing that pops up when you fire witch is a good thing to see in these 
 type of games.
  
  And another question why aint the maps big enough to use tanks and jeeps and so on.
  
  Its 
 a good game 3 qauters round but guys please stop with the propaganda for the innocents around the 
 world, they are already taking a beating in real life lol, dont need to be destroying them in games 
 aswel!. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: strider1979
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 28, 2008 12:51 am PT
Review:  What a game!!!! completed it within 2 days.. apart from that its a ace game.
  
  I did enjoy the whole blow up your enemys from the air scence, i think that this game is up there 
 with first person shooter's.
  
  played fine on my AMD 5000+ x2 dual core with 2GB ram and 512mb nvidia geforce 7300. While the 
 game may not have revolutionized the genre, it comes damn close to perfecting it.
  Distinguishing cover from concealment is important, as meager protection from as wooden fences, 
 thin walls and such no longer fully shields players from harm. Bullet speed and stopping power 
 are decreased after penetrating an object, and this decrease is calculated realistically depending 
 on the thickness and surface of the object penetrated.
  
  Will there be a cod5? and what will it bring to the table?
  
  
  
  Brill. com 
::::::

::::::
UserName: arcane_artist
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 27, 2008 9:30 pm PT
Review:  If there was a game I could play more of, or play a lot of games that should be like. It would 
 be Call Of Duty 4. This game is brilliant. Not often does a game make you feel the satisfaction 
 of taking a person down, knowing that they're dead, and you shot them. It's not very often a game 
 makes you feel like a cunning lethal warrior, sneaking up behind people and stabbing them in the 
 top of the head, shooting them through the walls with precision, and killing them with there own 
 grenades. 
  
  After a good round of CoD4, you can't help but go outside and lite up a cigarette, and feel that 
 you made a difference. This game, is awesomeness.
  
  Although short in game play, it has hours and hours of replay potential. As well as bonus features 
 and extras for you to play. The story is an absolute master piece, which helps you immerse into 
 the game. And I must say, rarely, has a game open your eyes to reality, and tragedy, even if it 
 is just a game (spoiler: i. e. crawling out of the helicopter) . If you didn't say "That's F'ed up" 
 when you played through that bit, you, are an evil evil monkey.
  
  PLAY THE GAME, you'll love it!
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: rcsnow
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 15, 2008 10:18 pm PT
Review:  Presentation:
  
  - There's not an inch of the game that hasn't been lavished with attention.
  - High-quality story 
 mode packs in a lot of thrilling and unexpected moments.
  
  Graphics:
  
  - From top to bottom, one of the best-looking console games around.
  - Some of the finest visuals 
 yet seen on a console, all running at a silky smooth pace.
  
  Sound:
  
  - The sound of war is a glorious thing in COD4. Perhaps it's because the sound effects are so impressive 
 that at times we struggled to notice the musical score?
  - The explosions will shake you; the constant sounds of gunfire will put you on edge. The end song 
 is an added bonus and properly immortalizes the unfortunate phrase, "Go deep and hard."
  - Terrific audiovisual presentation.
  
  Gameplay:
  
  - An excellent shooter that is as 
 intense an experience as you can find in gaming. The multiplayer is also top-notch.
  - Co-op and a lengthier campaign would have been nice, but we're still overjoyed at the experience 
 we've been given.
  - Well-designed multiplayer progression gives you something to shoot for online.
  
  Lasting 
 Appeal:
  
  - The single-player experience is brief, but there are many other things that will hold your attention 
 once the campaign is complete.
  - The campaign's brevity is more than made up for by the addictive online mode.
  
  ----------
 
  
  OVERALL: 9.5/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hotsauce415
Rating: 3
Date: Jan 26, 2008 8:27 pm PT
Review:  I played the first Call of Duty without the expansion and I have to say it is nothing compared 
 to this crap. Call of Duty was a lot of fun, was a more'tactical' shooter than this. Call of Duty 
 4 is an update for Counter Strike with its bunny hopping and frag fest. I bought the game to get 
 a realistic experience of the 'Modern' battlefield, but I realized that it was a run-and-gun type 
 of game. SHOOT ANYTHING THAT COMES ONTO YOUR CROSSHAIR or SHOOT ANYTHING THAT MOVES INCLUDING TEAMATES. 
 Durrrrr!!!
  
  Single Player:
  First mission made me say "WOW", but I soon realized that I wasted my time playing because I kept 
 getting frustrated because the AI teamates would block doorways when I am taking fire and they 
 don't even fire back. The weapons for single player and their 'customizations' like the grenade 
 launcher and silencer were good, but what ever happened to them in Multiplayer?????? Very short 
 campaign even on the hardest difficulty. I was surprised at the end when the game ended abruptly 
 with the credits.
  
  Multiplayer:
  Perks are a nice addition but you can only choose the perks for each default slot. How about 'mix 
 and match' so that it'll be even more fun???? What happened developers??? Remember that SOPMOD 
 M4A1 from single player, don't you wish you had that in Multiplayer???? I DO! Only 1 customization 
 for the gun sucks. I don't even have enough custom classes to create a weapon to each of my desires. 
 I wish there were unlimited custom classes, or better yet the weapons should've been customizable 
 to their full abilities i. e., with a grenade launcher, a silencer, and a red dot sight or the scope, 
 but only one is allowed. What the hell is up with the grenade launcher using up the first perk 
 slot.??? The ranking feature should've been kept out so that everyone starts with the same guns... ALL 
 OF THEM. Gameplay sucks online. I get extremely frustrated when the enemy spawns behind me all 
 of a sudden just because the spawn points shifted. I think the spawn points should be on opposite 
 sides of the map and there should be 'safe spawn' so that no one spawns where the enemy is expecting 
 them. Maps are too small especially shipment!!!! That map is for retards. Com'on, how the hell 
 are you supposed to play TDM with 16 or mroe players on each team on shipment.... PURE CHAOS! l There 
 is no teamwork involved in this game. Basically it is every man for himself except the score is 
 counted toward the 'team' score, unless the mode is set to Free for All. Even in FFA, the enemy 
 spawns behind you and kills you, when you think you have a nice spot to snipe. I really hoped for 
 an 'army like' experience where I had to cover teamates and they had to cover me, but they rather 
 get a knife kill when someone is about to knife you, rather than just shooting the enemy so that 
 you live!
  
  Total let down. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gzader
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 26, 2008 5:15 pm PT
Review:  The graphics are great, the sound is great, the story is great, the game play is great. Take just 
 about any aspect of the game and it's great.
  
  But it's far too short. I like to take my time playing a game. I like to explore and see whats 
 around the corners that are not a part of the main story line. Sadly COD4 often doesn't let you 
 do this. Many of the missions are time limited or have a strong enough illusion of being time limited 
 that you don't feel free to explore the environment.
  
  Thats a sad thing because the environment is beautiful and it just begs to be explored. Normally 
 there is an easy way around this. You just save and then go off exploring. Then you restore with 
 no "time penalty" or loss.
  
  That brings me to the other negative of the game. COD4 uses the notoriously console centric and 
 gamers unfriendly method of check point saving. THERE IS NOT REASON FOR CHECK POINT SAVING TO BE 
 THE ONLY METHOD OF SAVING. Hello?! There's no reason to do it on a console anymore, so why WHY 
 W*H*Y would you do this on a PC? Thats a big let down.
  
  COD4 is in all other ways a great game, and it's worth playing. But if you're a single player person 
 and you don't care about multiplayer, find it used. It's too short otherwise.
  
  -1 For check point saves
  -1 For exceedingly short game play
  
  Time to complete game: about 
 8 hours.
  ps. When you're done, watch the credits. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Flomonk
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 26, 2008 1:32 pm PT
Review:  Amazing gameplay, captivating storyline, superb graphics, challenging multiplayer, addicting game... thas 
 it! If your searching for a game where you can proove your might as a soldier, heres your chance!! 
 Only, for those you seek shooter with extra terrestrial biochemical nuclear titanium weaponised 
 energy type guns to kill mutated lab escaped monsters. Thats not the game. This for those who seek 
 tactical operation smooth operating lethal killer type game :) The only down that I could find 
 is that its a short game for single player. But not to worry! multiplayer comes and balances that 
 shortivity with intense action gameplay with several modes. Team deathmatch, search and destroy, 
 domination, headquarters, free-for-all, sabotage. And for those who seek greater challenge there 
 is hardcore mode which isnt meant to be friendly! Enjoy the game!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DaSoul
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 26, 2008 1:20 pm PT
Review:  First off... its an awesome game. The story is fantastic. There is a big plot, which i am not going 
 to spoil for people who are going to buy the game. The multi-player is a great thing. The ranking 
 system and challenges will just forbid you from leaving your computer. The graphics are great as 
 everything. Even with not such a great computer the graphics aren't bad as well. The gameplay is 
 smooth and realistic. Tho the bad side is buildings not destroyable. Its almost the only mistake, the 
 second one is the shortness. But as Jeff said in the review a lot happens in that short time. Theres 
 an arcade mode to possibly add hours to the gameplay. In summary Call Of Duty 4: Modern Warfare is 
 a great game and a must buy. When you get through the single-player theres a lot of challenges and 
 levels for you to accomplish in the multiplayer mode 
::::::

::::::
UserName: k_ozz
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 26, 2008 11:10 pm PT
Review:  Mindblowing graphics..
  Mindblowing voice acting and music..
  Top notch story which is really intense as long as it lasts..
  Excellent multiplayer..
  MUST 
 HAVE for any gamer even if ur not into FPS action..
  
  Well this is my review bout COD4... 
  
  SHORT?? Why don u check out COD4?? U will understand 
 why... The single player campaign is shorter than this.. When i say short the story is really really 
 short.. U can finish the game in bout 4-5 hours on the normal difficulty and bout 5-6 hours on hard.. 
 But make no mistake the story even though short is very powerfull that it will provide u with the 
 fun, excitement and thrill that most FPS cannot provide in even a 15hour campaign.. Even though 
 the game is short u will be spending a lot of time on the multiplayer as it provides a large number 
 of options and customizations n stuff.. 
  
  The game could have scored a perfect 10 if only a few more hours of gameplay was added on the single 
 player campaign.. 
  
  If u are buying this game only for the single player mode then its not a good deal.. On the other 
 hand If u r looking for a good single player with great multiplayer then look no furthur.. CALL 
 OF DUTY 4 is ur game as it provides an excellent story (as long as it lasts) followed by fantastic 
 multiplayer.. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Uberman2321
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 25, 2008 8:59 pm PT
Review:  possibly better than any game I have played no wonder it was the game of the year. This game contains 
 some serious graphics in campain and in multiplayer, there is soooooo many mods that people create 
 which only makes this game more fun. This game is soo fun to play I had to take a break and eat 
 since the first time I played this game I couldnt stop playing. If you dont have xbox live and 
 you own this game, there isnt any point in having it. The art is high def and the simulation seems 
 more realalistc than any other game I have ever saw inn may life. THIS IS AN ABSOULUTE WOW! If 
 you dont like this game its because you dont know how to play, the difficulty is too hard (thats 
 what makes this game good ) , or you are stupid and you just suck at playing first person. I belive 
 If you are'nt too good that this game, you should get some practice in arcade mode and after you 
 do that a few times in the highest difficulty you should be ok. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: krystians
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 25, 2008 2:10 pm PT
Review:  COD4 is unlike any shooter I've ever played. It's like playing Goldeneye for the first time. One 
 thing I did not like about the game, and it's the only thing wrong with it; is that the single 
 player mode is very very short. I beat it twice in about 4-5 hours. But on the other hand all of 
 it is made up for by incredible online multilayer. The one thing people might find annoying at 
 first is that everyone on the internet is super good, and there ranks are all the way up at lvl 
 55. I am currently on lvl 37 wish did not take me all that long to accomplish, and it's only been 
 less then one month. I'm going to keep this review very short, but all I am going to say is that 
 if you're into shooters, and wanna get into the whole online play this game is the best for it. 
 I certainly have stopped played Day of Defeat: Source, and all other steam games and am focusing 
 on this one for now. Till maybe the next COD comes out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NocturnalCut
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 25, 2008 10:18 am PT
Review:  The variety in the single player missions is excellent. The insanity of war is felt in the game... 
 I just can't wait to get my Bose headphones hooked up to this game finally this weekend and be 
 totally immersed. Hearing footsteps creeping around the corner while your waiting to gun them down 
 is fantastic.
  
  The multiplayer reward system really adds to this game.. And i will definitely be buying new maps 
 and add ons for this game. I never have for a game before.. But fresh maps will add a lot to this 
 game. I haven't even desired buying an new FPS's since this was released. I rented UNREAL tournament 
 3... but the controls felt too loose and i missed being able to duck and crawl for cover. 
  
  I love when someone opens fire on me for a distance.. i fall flat to the ground.. crawl to 
 safety and return fire... just fantastic. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: natt39
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 25, 2008 9:53 am PT
Review:  In the past I've not been a big fan of the FPS genre however this has to be one of the best games 
 that I have ever played........
  
  The story line sucks you in however it can be a little confusing at times considering it jumps 
 from Character to Character at least until the Marines wonder into the mother of all traps...........
 
  
  The graphics are brilliant even on my rather old 7300 GS card and the audio is only used in the 
 right places and is not an overlaying track.
  
  Only problem is it's a little short and can be finished quite quickly however the multilayer more 
 than backs it up. It's intense and fast paced so much so that if your new to this (like i am) your 
 going to get killed...... Alot.......
  
  There's an array of weapons in the single player so you change them to suit your play style. But 
 keep in mind that it is probably best to have on short and one long range weapon.
  
  I presume that Infinity Ward will be doing COD6 and unfortunately we will have to wait.
  
  
 Amazing but short 9.5/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nunyerbiz
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 25, 2008 9:19 am PT
Review:  The Call of Duty series has always been known for excellent single player campaigns with enjoyable 
 multiplayer thrown in as almost a bonus. With Call of Duty 4, that emphasis has appeared to reverse... 
 with the single player campaign getting less attention than the online stuff. 
  
  The single player campaign is very well executed for the most part. The story, while a little jumpy 
 and not always tying together terribly well, keeps you involved and has enough twists and turns 
 to make it more than just killing all the bad guys. The game is challenging enough on default difficulty 
 for the average FPS player and rarely frustrating. When you crank up the difficulty up a notch, 
 the game really gets tough. Even long time FPS fanatics will find some tough spots. In the tradition 
 of the previous Call of Duty games, the graphics and sound are excellent. The voice acting here 
 gets special kudos, with maybe one or two exceptions, all of the primary characters are given a 
 great treatment from their respective actors. 
  
  The problems crop up once you realize you have marched through the campaign in two or three sittings. 
 Despite the campaign being excellent from start to finish, I was left feeling flat. Things just 
 ended way too quickly for a full priced release. I think it took me longer to finish the last CoD2 
 expansion pack. If you consider yourself an FPS player of higher skill, crank up the difficulty 
 from the beginning to help pad out the play length. 
  
  The multiplayer component can be a fun and hectic frag fest... but it's not terribly deep despite 
 multiple game modes offered. Most games are running, gunning and nade spam of the highest order. 
 Every game feels like team deathmatch. There is nothing necessarily wrong with this, as the multiplayer 
 is well done and enjoyable for what it is... It's just unfortunate that it's not a deeper and more 
 involved affair. With the single player aspects appearing to get the short end of the stick... 
 this multiplayer doesn't really bring anything new to the table. 
  
  If you really get hooked on the multiplayer, then CoD4 will stack up well to the previous games 
 in the series. For me, I was left a little flat by the expansion pack completion time for the single 
 player campaign... which is the main reason I bought the thing to begin with. Overall, I think 
 that CoD2 is still the best game of the bunch. It featured the similar "real world meets Quake" 
 multiplayer... but had a huge and varied single player campaign that CoD4 is missing. While I would 
 still recommend this game to anyone, I think it's a bit overrated overall. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: homeyc
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 10, 2008 7:08 am PT
Review:  Call of Duty 4 brings back the excitement and interactive gameplay from the previous three editions. 
 This time, the action takes place in present day time and therefore the weapons are a little slicker. 
 Many of the automatic guns now have laser aiming as well as night vision. The plot puts the gamer 
 in control of two officers, Soap McTavish and Lt. Jackson of the SAS and the USMC respectively. 
 The storyline pits these two officers against a militant army force that has taken control of a 
 middle east country and whose leader has engaged in terrorist tactics to bring havoc to the world. 
 You, the player, must stop and capture him before the world is destroyed.
  
  The controls are almost identical to the game's predecessors. Weapons do vary but players will 
 most likely stick to the weapons that are issued. Only in a few scenarios are players forced to 
 use other weapons. 
  
  The length of the game is an area that I have issues with. I am not a great player and yet it only 
 took me less than 10 hours to complete the game. Sure, I could have gone back and gone through 
 it again at a more difficult level but the game had worn off on me already. Graphics and sound 
 are astonishing as are the special effects. However, I must admit that I was a little disappointed 
 given the number of accolades this game had received and the number of awards that it had been 
 nominated for.
  
  If you are a fan of first person shooters, this game is hard to beat. Just don't expect to be able 
 to play it for very long. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DennisChu22
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 25, 2008 12:50 pm PT
Review:  Hell, it's about time.
  
  Ever since I got my hands on the first Call of Duty game, I was aching for developers to create 
 one set in the modern times. Don't get me wrong, the original Call of Duty and Call of Duty 2 were 
 fantastic games (the same can't be said about the third one) , but modern warfare games were always 
 something that I gravitated towards.
  
  Both the single- and multi-player modes of Call of Duty 4 are superb and definitely replayable. 
 The realism, ranging from the eclectic selection of weapons to the ability to shoot through walls 
 makes the game all the more immersive. The multiplayer system and all of the things that the developers 
 have done (unlockable items, challenges, perks, etc.) have truly done the game justice. I applaud 
 you, Infinity Ward and Activision.
  
  The graphics are stunning, although it does take quite a bit of power to run this game at a respectable 
 level. When I first saw screens of this game, I was pretty convinced that it was using the new 
 DirectX 10 engine; to my surprise, however, it was still using the DirectX 9 and upping the ante. 
 Boy, it truly had me surprised. I was thrilled that I would not have to spend another $300 to upgrade 
 my graphics card just to experience one of the best games of the year.
  
  If you're more of a single-player person, the campaign does offer a solid eight hours of gameplay, 
 although increasing the difficulty does make certain missions during the storyline difficult at 
 times (which was the intended point) . Definitely don't miss out on the multiplayer, though. I was 
 hesitant at first to foray into the online world, but once I did, I was pretty much addicted. 
 
  
  So, FPS fans, what are you waiting for? Lock and load. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lauri14
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 23, 2008 12:44 pm PT
Review:  + Excellent graphics, makes me feel like I'm watching Black Hawk Down again.
  + Memorable characters (something you wouldn't expect from a shooter)
  + Great game-play mechanics, 
 Call of Duty obviously is made by people who have experience with shooters, unless you go multi-player 
 you'll probably never have to change the key mapping.
  + Breathtaking scenes. (image the night sky lit only by anti-air fire or Russian missiles)
  + 
 Turning the speakers louder actually gives the game a lot more. Great sound.
  + British SAS unit. Captain Price rocks.
  + Best mission design I've seen in a long time.
  
 
  - Some people may find the American "GOGOGO team Bravo out Charlie Hotel Alpha"-talk irritating.
 
  - Personally I like World War II a lot more than the modern stuff, the weapons kind of bore me.
 
  
  At first I thought COD4 would be boring and kind of ordinary. I've played through D-Day and the 
 rest of WWII way too many times, but personally I still prefer an MP40 to a HK5 Silenced Laser-sighted 
 automatic. The whole Russians and Near-Easterners being evil thing isn't too innovative either. 
 What makes the single player so good are the characters, Captain Price and Captain MacMillan in 
 Chernobyl especially. The makers of this game have really given thought to the single player campaign's 
 replay value, there are pieces of "enemy intel" you can collect during the game, kind of like Hitler's 
 treasures in Wolfenstein. There are things like Arcade mode and different difficulties also and 
 even if those won't make you play the single player campaign again, the sheer power of the visual 
 effects and the pleasure of splattering your enemies brains over a wide area definitely will. The 
 point is, COD4 seemed pretty usual to me, but it really isn't.
  Unfortunately I've yet to play COD4 on multi-player, but from what I've heard from former COD2 
 freaks, the multi-player of this game is a cherry. I understand you can level your Call of Duty 
 characters and gain perks, that make you more and more imbalanced compared to newcomers, it may 
 be a great feature to set COD4 apart from it's relatives, but I doubt such a thing will survive 
 in clan wars.
  What else I really liked about this game: shooting through weak walls; Estonian registration number 
 on a ship; Russians actually speak Russian, not English with a Russian accent; pistols..... must 
 love Beretta; taking wind and the Coriolis effect into consideration while sniping, although I 
 really didn't have time to think which hemisphere we were on and in what direction I was shooting; 
 if I would not like playing shooters, I'd still get a kick out of just watching someone else play, 
 top notch
  
  Uh yeah, get it, even if only for the single-player. It says 9.0 up there for a reason. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zeus_gb
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 23, 2008 8:44 am PT
Review:  Good Points:
  
  Gorgeous graphics.
  Superb sound design.
  Great voice acting.
  Single-player campaign is immersive and it's quality keeps you coming back for more.
  Awesome 
 multi-player.
  Loads of available multi-player servers to choose from, last night it was over 16,000.
  Multi-player 
 levelling system.
  Unlockable weapons, camos, attachments, perks.
  Decent multi-player maps.
  Lots of multi-player modes to choose from.
  
  Bad Points:
  
 
  Single-player campaign is a little short.
  A little bit too much camping and spawn killing going on in deathmatch.
  
  After I was slightly 
 disappointed with Call of Duty 2 I thought they'd have to do something quite special and I was 
 right. Bringing Call of Duty out of World War II was a brilliant decision and modern warfare takes 
 pride of place at number one in the franchise.
  
  Graphics: 
  
  COD4 has gorgeous graphics and a really high level of detail on textures and on the characters. 
 The characters look the part this helps produce some memorable characters such as Captain Price. 
 The weapons look the the part as well.
  
  Sound:
  
  The sound department is a place where COD has always stood out and Modern Warfare continues this 
 trend. COD4 has some amazing sound design, get into a big firefight and there are orders being 
 shouted, explosions, gunfire from various different weapons........ it's incredible.
  
  The voice acting is just as good as it's always been if not more so. Captain Price once again stands 
 out because of his great voice acting. Most games have a few voice actors that just sound dull/uninterested, 
 that's where the COD series stands out you'll be hard pressed to find a bad voice actor.
  
  Single-player:
  
  COD4 has a very short single player campaign, most seasoned gamers should 
 be able to complete it on regular difficulty in under six hours, veteran will take slightly longer 
 and is hard on some levels. The lack of quantity in the single player campaign is more than made 
 up for by it's superb quality. The story is well written, engaging and the games immersive nature 
 keeps you playing. 
  
  Multi-player:
  
  The single player was a blast but the multi-player is awesome. UT used to be my favourite online 
 multi-player but that's been kicked to the kerb. COD4's multi-player has all the usual modes Deathmatch, 
 Team Deathmatch, Domination, Search and Destroy etc etc. COD4 multi-player has a levelling system 
 and as you gain experience points from fragging, planting explosives, capturing control points 
 etc etc you gain ranks and unlocks things. You can unlock things from weapons, attachments (sights, 
 silencers etc) , perks, camos etc etc. There are also challenges to complete that give you experience 
 points as well. Things like frag someone by blowing up a car or get a 5 to 1 frag death ratio.
 
  
  A down side to the multi-player would be all the camping and spawn killing that goes on in Deathmatch 
 mode but I guess that kinda happens with any popular multi-player.
  
  Overall:
  
  Overall COD4 has got to have one of the most immersive single-player campaigns i've played and 
 it has one of the best multi-players i've played.
  
  If you like decent FPS games whether it be single-player or multi-player get this game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Aakash16
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 23, 2008 5:56 am PT
Review:  Well, Call of Duty IV :- Modern Warfare is the best FPS in my life as:- 
  
  STORY:- It is very impressive, contains lot of secrets and suspenses. I'll give it 
  9.1/10.
 
  GRAPHICS:-They were better than I expected especially th glow of soldiers and also the guns . 
 I'll give them 9.4/10
  SOUNDS:- The best of the best . The gun voice is better than th real . You feel you're in the battle 
 also the music soothes our mind and makes the game more interesting. I'll give it 11/10
  
  GAMEPLAY:- MISSIONS ARE BEST . EVERY MISSION HAS A NEW OR A NEW INTERESTING OBJECTIVE. you'll be 
 enjoying the whole gameplay and won't be able to easily switch off the game you'll be playing it 
 all the time , that's why people are saying they have finished the game very soon. I'll give it 
 20/10.
  
  VALUE:- A bit small than I expected and would may end suddenly. I'll give it 7.5/10
  
  OVERALL:- 
 The best FPS game you'll be ever playing. Thank you for reading this review.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: achilles123
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 23, 2008 3:52 am PT
Review:  Great storyline and locations that don't let you get bored for a second. Not bad graphics, though 
 I never got used to the green smoke thing. They should fix this any time soon. It's really annoying. 
 :)
  
  The one thing I didn't like is the fact that the guys the game is throwing to you are like... thousands. 
 Which could have been fine, if it wasn't the fact that you can kill up to six or seven baddies 
 before they manage to hurt you badly enough to force you look for cover. Bad guys just tend to 
 die even if shot in the toe (well, maybe not that easy, but you got my idea) . I liked better the 
 Medal of Honor approach - much less, but tougher enemies. That's when head shots really count.
 
  
  I couldn't miss mentioning the Pripyat level. Though it left me with the impression that maybe 
 the level was not planned until S. T. A. L. K. E. R. came out (means: they copied the great idea from 
 the Russians) , the mission was perfect in almost every way! And of course the Irish sniper was 
 so inspiring :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: antality
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 22, 2008 9:15 am PT
Review:  Having played the Previous Call of Duty games, I knew what to expect and that's what I saw. 
  
  I was under the impression the game was very short, but here I am still playing it, though 
 on hard and it being over a year since I've really played an FPS, I am still playing this game. 
 I'd highly recommend playing on Regular. Hard doesn't allow you to run with blazing rifles (which 
 is more fun than hiding in every big battle because they seek out you and only you, maybe that's 
 cause you are the only soldier who is vulnerable to their barrage of bullets?) .
  
  I'm still having a blast, the story is just great, and keeps you motivated and wanting to see what's 
 next, though there are some repeats, there are still always new textures and new little objectives 
 as in all FPS games, of course. The kills and DOF really makes me like this game, zooming down 
 your rifle and plucking baddies out, and watching them fall, as they still shoot or launch an RPG 
 during the fall.. is satisfying.
  
  The stealth mission flashback where you are following your Fellow sniper is a blast! It made me 
 just outright laugh at one point, that was a very high moment for me. On the other hand at the 
 end of that mission where you set the little invincible gimp down at the ferris wheel, that was 
 hard, on hard. That took me 45+ respawns. It was hard, and I got angry, really angry. But when 
 I made it into that helicopter, I was very happy.
  
  The games big flaws to me, are the lack of destructible environments, though most players might 
 not pay attention to that, I do. I seek out the latest graphics intense games and play them, and 
 I look for effects like that. Especially in this time of games where that is completely the standard. 
 When I shoot a couch, I want to see it tear up. That's a fairly small complaint and they get away 
 without those realistic physics well enough. The other thing is, certainly from a big name game 
 maker like these guys with three previous successes at bay, why not go for the destructible bodies? 
 Even Soldier of Fortune II, an older fps had that. If you are trying to simulate war, why not simulate 
 war. The lack of bloodstains and body parts is unsatisfying. But whatever, great game anyways. 
 Love the thing walls, that is something I've used many times. Overall, I got my money.. err, downloads 
 worth.. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GodMode
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 21, 2008 9:11 pm PT
Review:  Call Of Duty 4: Modern Warfare is a new first person shooter released by Infinity Ward. They finally 
 jumped out of the WWII era and hoped straight into modern warfare.
  
  I'll admit the Single-Player campaign is awfully short, but it's full of moments that just make 
 you want to scream or just got OH **** DID THAT JUST HAPPEN?! And most of the missions are just 
 absolutely pulse poundingly intense. The presentation is just amazing.
  
  The graphics in this game were developed entirely off of DirectX9. So whoever is a DirectX10 fanboy 
 this game is like a slap in the face. It looks absolutely amazing, and better than most of the 
 DX10 games out there, barring a few.
  
  The multi-player is incredibly deep for a First Person Shooter. There's levels (ranks) , perks (abilities/powerups) , 
 unlockables such as guns, camos, sights, silencers, etc. 
  
  Overall I just can't get enough of this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: buddylee4222
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 21, 2008 3:40 pm PT
Review:  I liked the single player action. Short levels but lots of action. Keeps you comin back for more. 
 Wish there was more. Now the multiplayer is the same old story that has plagued all the Call of 
 Duty titles. PunkBuster sucks. They couldnt stop a hack if you told them who they are and what 
 the hack is. Hacking runs wild in multiplayer. IW has to know this. It happend in COD2. Yet they 
 still use PunkBuster. I bet I have been kicked more times by PunkBuster for not Hacking (i. e. registry 
 error or some crap) than any Hacker has. I have come to the conclusion that I will never spend 
 my hard earned money on another IW game until they address this issue. My money may not make a 
 dent but consider this, I own all of the Call of Duty games/expansions. But they will not see my 
 money anymore. Hope someone from IW reads this, and hope some no Life, no Girlfriend, loser of 
 a Hack sees this also. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: COWS2
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 31, 2008 6:36 pm PT
Review:  It's not reviloutinary, but it's something that you will play for a long time...
  
  The Good:
  Single Player plotline is great
  Physics In Singleplayer are good.
  Looks Great 
 but at times you wish u had the 360 or ps3 version
  Multiplayer is good...
  Great Sound
  Don't need a beefy comp
  
  The Bad:
  Get a better graphics card the lagg will catch u sooner 
 or later
  Multiplayer... all you need is a grenade launcher and 3 frag grenades to go on a 5kill streak.. 
 Or camping in a corner with a shottie
  Singleplayer is short but its quality is superb
  AI can be really hard or super easy
  Bullet effects needed if you want to know u hit somtin in 
 multiplayer not a cheesy star.
  Not much (Or any) strategy needed. Pretty much run around and shoot ppl.
  
  
  Its a great 
 game. Just some parts are overlooked.
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: unclefrag_basic
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 21, 2008 9:18 am PT
Review:  The single player campaign, although shorter than would be ideal, is absolutely breathtaking from 
 beginning to end. The online multiplayer is the real kicker though. It is just about perfect; I 
 could literally not think of one weakness or oversight. Graphics are great, sound is amazing, control 
 and feel are second to only one (HL2) . These are all praises I would have heaped on CoD (1) back 
 in the day, Infinity Ward has done an amazing job keeping this franchise fresh and enjoyable. 
 
  In my opinion, this game takes a back seat to only one other FPS action game of the last 5 years, 
 Half-Life 2. I would say the single player is right up there with FEAR for immersiveness and making 
 you really want to get to the next section... all the time not wanting to for fear that the game 
 will end at the end of the next chapter. 
  
  This is a MUST buy game. Amazing. 
  You owe it to yourself. ... And even if you don't, buy it anyway. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Joe_Lost
Rating: 7
Date: Jan 28, 2008 7:54 am PT
Review:  What a disappointment.
  
  I read a review below with a rating of 6.5 and I nearly gave the same. Everything that I am talking 
 about is the Multiplayer game.
  
  Looks: OK to good. Nothing to rave about.
  
  It is quite good and the physics are very realistic-looking, with high-power rifles able to punch 
 through thin cover and some walls, but it has not blown me away and I have the hardware to ramp 
 it up. This includes a 30" screen which really shows up bad graphics in high res.
  
  
  Gameplay: Very Disappointing. Preferred the single-player game.
  
  I am an avid player of FPS's 
 and FPS online games. I am playing Battlefield 2142 and Battlefield 2, ancient games by comparison, 
 from time to time. Much better games. You can really use squad tactics and plan an assault. In 
 this game, as one other critic was saying, you can nearly just spawn and start throwing grenades 
 around. You are likely to kill anywhere from 1 to 3 enemies per grenade. After that run around 
 and try not to kill friendlies, but do shoot at nearly everything that you meet.
  
  It is a real counterstrike type game. That is not the impression that I got, watching the trailers.
 
  
  This is not fun and has put me off C of D, badly.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Orakk
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 21, 2008 12:56 am PT
Review:  Call of Duty 4 is definitely an epic game. Epic Single-player, epic multi-player, epic graphics, 
 epic voice acting and so on.
  
  Its not just a normal casual shooter, it stands out in its own way and it really feels good to 
 sit down and play it. The only thing thats sad is that the Single-player is really short, maybe 
 4-5 hours for a normal first person shooter gamer, but you want to play it over again, just to 
 see the awesome thing happening again. Now into more detail:
  
  Graphics: In graphics, this game looks good even on 640 x 420 and on the highest quality in all, 
 its like a movie with real actors, and you're one of them. Every single thing in this game is textured 
 in such a great way, that it looks like the developers have used 1 week on each item if not more. 
 Every character are having the best looks that just put's them out and you remember them. For example, 
 the character called Captain Price, I will for sure remember him for the next couple of years, 
 because his look and voice acting is just so solid, and his movements are so well animated too, 
 and because of all these things combined together, it just makes this game so good to looks at!
 
  
  Sound: Sounds, sounds, sounds, they are awesome. Each weapon, character and action have their own 
 voices, or sounds (There is over 30 weapons and over 25 different characters) Imagine you have 
 to import all of them voices and sounds in to a game and they have to be top notch quality. These 
 guys/girls did an awesome job in this and just the sounds and graphics combined, you want to buy 
 the game. Well, I would.
  
  Gameplay: The gameplay in this game is epic, EPIC I tell you! Even though you complete the game 
 once, you want to complete it again, and again, and again. Then when you've completed it several 
 times, there is the EPIC multi-player. Unlike the other Call of Duty games, that had a horrible 
 multi-player, in this game, the multi-player is as good as the single-player, if not better because 
 at day 1 they had 2 teams, a single-player development and a multi-player development team. The 
 other Call of Duty games they had one development team to do it all, so now, its quality work! 
 Its like Battlefield 2. You start at level one, and each thing you do gives you experience, from 
 killing players to planting the bomb. Then you gain levels and each 2 level you should advance 
 in rank. Like Private and Corporal, then you should get new weapons and stuff. And when you for 
 example kill 100 players with an M4A1, also known as colt, you get a new camouflage to your weapons 
 to make it looks cooler. You also gain new equipment to your weapons and things like that. You 
 also unlock perks. Now, perks are like super powers. Some may do so you can sprint for a longer 
 period of time or, you might even get one so you can hold 4 special granades instead of one. You 
 can have 3 on you at once and you can change in the create class menu. The create class is where 
 you add weapons, camouflage and perks to your different classes that you have created yourself. 
 And as you may see, the multi-player have lots and lots of stuff to unlock, and the good thing 
 is that a level 1 game easily kill a level 55, (Which is the highest level) because the level 55 
 is not better than him because of all the stuff he have. He just have more things to juggle his 
 character with.
  
  Storyline: At first the storyline may seem confusing, but as you play, you get more information 
 about the main storyline and it becomes more intense. This game is actually the most evil one to 
 date, because instead of the second world war, you have modern war. In Iraq and stuff. But this 
 storyline is about nuclear weapons and how the military will cope with that and its just so intense 
 and you really get into the game. Then at the end of the storyline, all the loose ends get together 
 and you just sit and watch the final cutscene with your mouth open thinking: "Wow!"
  
  So overall this a really good game that anyone could enjoy if they are in to first person shooters.
 
  
  Graphics: 10
  Gameplay: 10
  Sound: 9
  Overall: 10
  
  -Orakk 
::::::

::::::
UserName: iverson18_1
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 20, 2008 5:15 pm PT
Review:  Very Very Good... le recomiendo 100% pense q nada superaria a la version de call of duty 2 pero 
 esta version esta mucho mejor nada q envidiar a la pasada.. bueno a la version de pc la de xbox 
 no la juegue entonces no tengo criterio para jusgarla... espero q se diviertan mucho con call of 
 duty 4... just fun.. and  
 no se q mas decir
  
  
  When writing your review, remember to keep the language clean. Reviews must be 100 words minimum. 
 We encourage you to try to get your review right the first time - you may choose to edit it later 
 on, but by doing so, you will lose any positive feedback associated with the review. We encourage 
 you to write your review in a word processor or text editor, save it to your local disk, then copy 
 and paste it into the posting box below. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Freak_mind
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 20, 2008 3:06 pm PT
Review:  The following is my experience during the game.
  
  The single player campaign was awesome. Well scripted as always, within plenty to do within the 
 scripted boundaries. The game's intensity is better than ever, with action being insanely intense 
 ( and sometimes very frustrating) on the harder difficulties. The variety in gameplay is very refreshing. 
 The AC-130 gunner level and the car chase were my personal favorites. The squad AI is good in general 
 (with a few exceptions) . Weapons have a smooth feel, and the bullet penetration system is very 
 fun (sometimes it feels its too forgiving) .
  Multiplayer modes are fun, hardcore mode in particular.
  
  A64 3800+, 3GB Ram, 7800 GTX (1)
 
  The game looks awesome, I love the lighting, and the ambience in general. Smoke effects are better 
 than previous CODs. textures seem low, although my texture settings are set on automatic. The game 
 seems fairly scale-able since my friend with a 4 yr old rig plays it fairly smoothly, with less 
 graphic detail...
  
  Squad AI seems very passive at times, and this is always when you feel you need them the most. 
 (this was on second hardest difficulty) . The bullet penetration systems seems a little too forgiving, 
 but I give IW lots of points for putting it in the game. Certain scripted battles are just plain 
 evil on the harder difficulties and they add considerable amounts of hours to the campaign if you're 
 determined enough =P... on the flip-side its very satisfying when you finally pass these areas, 
 because you know you did it with skill. (this game rarely allows space for luck, you either shoot 
 through the enemy or you re-spawn and try again..... all my attempted cheap work around failed miserably..) . 
 Arcade mode is very average in comparison to the original single player campaign.
  
  The Only reason I bothered writing this review is because I loved the game so much. It is the best 
 game experience I've had all year in such a short span. and I've played all the big shooters and 
 such ( I love shooters) . Also, the Demo isn't too reflective of the best parts of the game... I 
 can think of many other levels they could've used as a demo. All in all, its a must buy for those 
 who love shooters, and for those who love well done scripted moments and hands -on cinematic gameplay. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rndinit9
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jan 20, 2008 4:02 am PT
Review:  The only thing I disagree with here, is the games rating. I really don't see how it can be rated 
 as a "9". Sure it looks nice, and the sound is "acceptable" (I thought the special effects were 
 lacking, more on this later) but it lacks a lot for its price.
  
  Here are the things I would like to point out before you buy this game.
  
  Sound:
  Bullet 
 impact sounds are virtually non existent. This really takes a lot of the joy out of actually hitting 
 your target. You only have a visual clue of whether or not you hit.
  
  Every time you are promoted you are sure to know because your ears are assaulted with a very loud 
 strange rocky sound that would feel more at home with Quake 4 "Quad Damage" effect than a promotion 
 in somewhat realistic military themed game.
  
  Grenades bouncing of the floor virtually produce the same sound on "all" solid surfaces, which 
 happens to be a very annoying Sonic "the hedgehog" themed clink clink.
  
  The terrorists "Op For" have really bad arabic dubbing. "Ermi Selahik" (means fire your weapon) 
 does mean "Contact". The rest of the arabic voice overs are just wrong, and I cant imagine any 
 arab military power nor arab terrorists using such commands in the field. Then again most of you 
 wont care since you dont understand arabic anyways.
  
  The ingame Voice Chat is practically useless, and the audio codec is just horrible. Not worth using, 
 even if you just want to insult another player with a very recognizable 4 letter word. 
  
  Video:
  
  People claim this game looks awesome, in reality with a SLI system this game looks 
 nothing short of "normal" not exactly next gen. And almost very boring. "All flash no substance"
 
  
  Game Play:
  
  While the perks and different classes seem to be an interesting idea, its not new, and in this 
 case nothing special. They havent re-invented the wheel.
  
  Very early on you will realize the games biggest flaw is "Level Design" the levels seem to be designed 
 for "maximum fatalities" On crowded servers you can close your eyes hurl a grenade into any direction 
 and your bound to get a kill or three. No really Im not joking. This game is all twitch no brains.
 
  The levels dont allow for tactics, all you can do is keep on the move as fast as you can and keep 
 your eye out for anything that moves, if its hostile kill it.
  
  I've played the earlier COD games, and I must say the older ones are much better than this latest 
 iteration.
  
  But if your into twitch games that require absolutely no thought or tactical teamwork then this 
 game might be for you. If you dont digg zombie shooters, then I recommend that you look elsewhere 
 for your FPS pleasure.
  
  Im highly disappointed I really did expect more from COD4, what a waste of money! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: aschuhart
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 18, 2008 12:12 pm PT
Review:  Over the past few years, I have grown a bit weary when it comes to First Person Shooters (FPS) . 
 I really didn't have that high of hopes for Call of Duty 4 (COD4) but decided to get it anyways 
 just because the series had taken a new turn and entered the theater of modern combat.
  
  At first I thought "oh great... same old stupid tutorial obstacle course that's a complete 20 minutes 
 waste of time again" but actually no. The tutorial goes by very fast and infact... the tutorial 
 is a TIMED obstacle course itself. Your time reflects the difficult setting the game chooses for 
 you based on your score, though you can manually alter it yourself as well. Immediately after you 
 finish, your off on your first mission.
  
  The gameplay is very fluid and smooth. I have dual 8800GTX's and let me say that this game is just 
 GORGEOUS with all graphics maxed. Shock waves, motion blurs, dynamic lighting.... it's a very beautiful 
 game to play. Also I didn't run into a single bug (I'm running vista premium 32bit) . 
  
  The fighting itself is like other Call of Duty games but it's not like there's a whole lot to improve 
 on unless you add in real life physics but if you do that then the game would become more of a 
 simulation. Missions are pretty standard... there's a few that REALLY REALLY stand out. One of which 
 puts you in control of an AC-130 Spectre's weapon systems and lets rain hell down upon terrorists 
 using FLIR (forward looking infra red) system (just like a certain famous youtube video) . 
  
  All in all this game is really good and definitely worth buying. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gasmaskman
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 18, 2008 11:49 am PT
Review:  The first thing you notice about Call of Duty 4 is the graphics. Entering the game for the first 
 time, you'll notice incredible lighting, detailed textures, and the facial models, but also the 
 fact the game never, ever, EVER dips below 60 FPS. The graphics are just a tip of the iceberg as 
 you work your way into the game.
  
  One of the best things about the game is the presentation. The opening level is fast-paced, and 
 what makes this game great is that you feel like you're doing something important with your squad. 
 The beginning assassination is intense, as you work your way through the streets of a war-torn 
 country. As a US Marine (which you split your time as a British SAS member and a US Marine) , the 
 game has you chase down the assassinator, with a war on the brink. The end of the game has some 
 of the most jaw-dropping scenes in recent gaming.
  
  The single player is short, which is sad. The action is intense and sweat-inducing, with heated 
 firefights frequent, and sometimes painful. The cover system is unique (somewhat) , with bullets 
 being able to penetrate through objects like sheet metal and wood, so finding a suitable spot to 
 hide may be a difficult task, and one that is more obviously painful on Veteran (the hardest) difficulty. 
 Even with the mediocre cover you find yourself behind sometimes, the system works both ways, with 
 enemies being easy targets hiding behind a thin metal fence.
  
  Multiplayer is the biggest highlight, being highly addictive. The game starts you with little weapons 
 and perks (more on those later) , and as you advance rank you unlock more. The better weapons like 
 the Barrett and the P90 are unlocked at higher difficulties, though the game does give you some 
 of the better weapons to begin with (the M16 and the MP5) . The game also introduces perks, with 
 some obvious combinations. There are three slots, with the first one usually explosives, like C4s, 
 claymores, more frag grenades, and RPGs. The second slot has certain enhancements like more damage 
 (either weapon or explosive) , more health, and the ability to stay hidden on UAV scans. The third 
 slot has more tactical perks, with longer sprinting distances, quieter movements, and the ability 
 to hold your breath longer when sniping. 
  
  During a multiplayer game, you're rewarded for certain kill streaks with a UAV (3 kills) , which 
 scans the map for enemies every 5 seconds or so for 30 seconds; an air strike (5 kills) , which 
 drops bombs on a target area of your choice; and a helicopter (7 kills) , which flies around and 
 shoots a lot of enemies (usually an easy 5-8 kills) . There are 55 levels to get to, but it doesn't 
 just stop there. There's certain challenges like calling in 3 UAVs in one match, to killing an 
 enemy with their own weapon, to unlock. Most of them just give more experience, which help on the 
 way to 55, but the weapon based ones give you more camo choices and more attachments, like a 4x 
 ACOG scope and a red dot sight. It doesn't end there, though. At 55 you can reset everything (minus 
 your leaderboard states) , just to gain a little "Prestige" in the form of a special badge next 
 to your name.
  
  All in all, Call of Duty 4 offers insanely addictive multiplayer, action-packed single player, 
 all with an extremely high level of polish. This gets my vote for Game of the Year. It may not 
 be revolutionary, but Infinity Ward put so much stuff onto an already overflowing genre that its 
 hard not to love it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mushroom_Cloud
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 17, 2008 12:33 pm PT
Review:  COD4 was a fine addition to the COD series and I like how it's set in modern times instead of WWII. 
 The graphics are great and so is the multi-player there are also many weapons to choose from and 
 plenty of enemies to shoot at! I tell all my friends about COD4. Most of my friends are hardcore 
 Halo fans and think every game out there sucks even COD4!!!!
  
  I didn't really like the ending to much though in single player mode it wasn't as good as the ending 
 in Crysis, COD 2, World In Conflict plus many other games I have. It just didn't have that substance 
 storyline ending that I thought it would have. Other than the ending it was one of the best games 
 I've ever played!!! My favorite part in the game was when the nuke exploded. That was the most 
 beautiful cloud of destruction I have seen it brings a tear to my eye. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GP__Enforcer
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 16, 2008 8:12 pm PT
Review:  Thia game will rock your socks, if you love fps games this is the one to get. With a intense campaign 
 game, and a really fun addicting multiplayer. You will be playing this game all day if your not 
 careful, unlocking camo's, and attachments, like red dot sights, grenade launchers, and some things 
 called perks, which give you special abilitis, you get all these by leveling up ,by getting head 
 shots, and kills you will be the max rank of a 55 in no time, but that isn't the end once you become 
 a 55 you can go into prestige mode! which starts you from the beginning, and once you do that you 
 can get cool new ranks!!! And if your a fan of getting a high gamer-score this is a fun game to 
 get all of your achievementsm in the crazy intense campain game, in the choice of your difficulty, 
 So if you don't have or your thinking of getting it YOU MUST GET THIS GAME!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bluebbo
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 16, 2008 10:26 am PT
Review:  This is the first review I'm writing for any website. I belong to the those people who grew up 
 on video games and I know the greatness of games such as OoT. Call of Duty 4 I believe is the true 
 next generation game. Not because it blows away other games with its technology or graphics, but 
 because it incorporates whats so important in games: satisfying gameplay and genuine feel.
  
  Many people complain about COD4s short first player experience. For me, I would rather play 
 a short campaign full of thrills and diverse gameplay than a game developers try to make epic by 
 dragging on the story for 50 hours. It's so funny how a short campaign in this game brought me 
 more satisfaction than 95% games that were twice as long. The rescue mission on the stormy ship 
 blew me away. Sniper mission has now become famous. Captain Price and other computer AI actually 
 help you instead of being some luggage you have to lug along. Computer AI in this game seem more 
 realistic than other shooters I've played. 
  
  Graphics and Sound are a top notch. But I really can't say its a revolutionary step forward. Crysis 
 looks better, but I have not even finished that game yet. Gameplay, funfactor is what makes COD4 
 so great
  
  The meat of COD4 is the multiplayer. I have been playing Counter Strike Source since pre 1.6 days. 
 I never ever thought a fps multiplayer could top CS. I tried everything from Halo3, Rainbow6, UT3.. 
 never came close to the authentic feel of CS (who can resist the feeling of a headshot in CS) . 
 This is until I played COD4. The game is just as fast CS, has an arcade feel like no other, and 
 rewards you for continually progressing in the game. The guns you will earn with progression actually 
 feel like YOUR own gun. Awp in CS is my weapon of choice, but its the same everytime. The guns 
 in COD4 can be modified to fit how you play. Perks help you stay out of radar or will get you cheap 
 kills with martyrdom. So many different routes but I'm sure you'll find the combination that will 
 make you feel like, "dang i'm equipped to fight the way I want". This is what makes COD4 truly 
 next gen. But the word next gen should be thrown away. Why do games that are over a decade old 
 still get praises. Because truly great games stand out and do subtle things so right that the total 
 package is an experience gamers can't forget. For those who have played this game, and love that 
 little subtle sound and the cursor change when shooting someone, you know why this game will stand 
 the test of time.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gamingguy87
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 16, 2008 8:54 am PT
Review:  From the minute the single player campaign opens all the way to the end, Call of Duty 4: Modern 
 Warfare is action packed and rewarding. There are two campaigns, US and British, that play along 
 side eachother. 
  
  The US campaign is a heart stopping race through the streets of Iraq. And the British campaign 
 keeps you on your toes when your playing as special forces. My only complaint (like many others) 
 is the length of the single player, it is way too short. The campaigns leave you wanting much more, 
 thats how good they are.
  
  Once you are done with single player jump into the amazing multi-player. All of the familiar game 
 modes are still there; S&D, Deathmatch, Team Deathmatch, etc. What makes the multiplayer really 
 innovative is the class custimization. The more you play the more experience you get, this experience 
 gets you ranks which unlock new weapons and bonuses. You then choose a primary weapon with upgrade, 
 a sidearm with upgrade, and 3 perks. There are hundreds of different layouts that you can make, 
 so you can fine tune your class to the way you personally play. All of the maps are great, and 
 the developers have already added more maps.
  
  This is an amazing game, even if you aren't going online. Pick this title up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Shedding
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 15, 2008 9:27 pm PT
Review:  Some games are rated far too high.. I play them.. then around half way through the game I stop 
 playing. A game that keeps me playing and coming back for more deserves my high score. I gave this 
 game a 10 (although I feel it deserves more like a 9.7) but my 10 helps to bring this game above 
 the rest and let others experience how much fun its multiplayer can be. The Weapons do feel true 
 to life in a not so real fashion. The game gives you options.. you want a one shot one kill multiplayer.. 
 you've got it. You want fast paced team co-op.. you got it. And while you are at it, get points 
 and unlock weapons. It brings a little of an RPG element to the mix.. but where haven't you heard 
 that in other reviews. I didn't want to give this game a perfect 10 (although that is what I assigned 
 as a score) but like I previously said a 9.7 is my vote. The perfect 10 was not given because the 
 game did not innovate. However, how can you not give a great game a good score for being just sheer 
 fun?
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: raider366
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 15, 2008 8:03 pm PT
Review:  One of the best games i've ever played. 
  
  Single player:
  A little short, but alot of fun. Arcade mode and cheats are unlocked after you finish the game. 
 Difficulty is just right, but veteran mode (hardest possible mode) is pretty hard. I finished the 
 game on normal and hoping to do it again on hardened (second hardest mode) . Single player is about 
 8-20 hours depending on the level of difficulty. Took me about 13 hours. 
  
  Multiplayer:
  Haven't played too much multiplayer, since I got the game a couple days ago. Its 
 alot of fun and ability to gain ranks as you progress is alot of fun too. I expect the multiplayer 
 to go on for a while, so the game is not ending any time soon. I've read about problems with people 
 and key codes, but those problems are often fixed within a couple minutes, so do not be scared 
 or anything. 
  
  If you don't have this game yet, recommend you get it, its alot of fun! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: perry933
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 14, 2008 9:27 pm PT
Review:  MUST HAVE!!!! Thats is all I can say! What an incredible game IW gave us! Pure shooter action with 
 modern fun! Any FPS fan must buy this game! The regular story will engulf you for hours, step up 
 the difficulty to Veteran and you will be in for quite the challenge! My favorite Level has to 
 be the prologe.... you will see when you play this! Lets just say they save the best for last! There 
 is nothing more entertaining than calling an air strike on a crowd of enemies and watching them 
 get blown up from above! Then there is the multiplayer..... one of the best shooters online today! 
 While the PC version doesn't get prestige mode like the console players, you are better off not 
 having it! With a good video card and high speed internet connection you will be killing on-line 
 for a long time! Hands Down a MUST BUY!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: keemoz
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 14, 2008 8:02 pm PT
Review:  
  I don't know where to start from , I write this on the beginning of 2008 which is months after 
 the release of COD4 and I was amazed to see it still on the top of the charts so I wish I can share 
 my simple opinion on the game , I played COD4 on a 3.2 GHz single core processor with a 7300gt 
 xfx vga card , which is a very simple pc for gaming , I was surprised by the very descent speed 
 with the good graphics , the gameplay itself is much fun , from the very beginning of the game 
 till the last second even after the credits , which keeps me waiting for the next COD , very good 
 story with a lot of interesting missions ,great music score , it just leave u wish for more with 
 the "i think" is a very short campaign for a shooter , finally, it's pure cinematic adventure , 
 hope u like it as well 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nontas4
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 14, 2008 5:06 am PT
Review:  When I First Rented cod4 and was about to install it i thought that is going to be a good cod like 
 all the others but with not major changes like the previous games in the series. So As it was installing 
 i was looking at the screenshots as long it installs and i noticed the gorgeous graphics of it 
 2 weeks ago i still haded my old 7600gt xfx xxx now i have upgraded a lot of things in my system 
 like new motherboard more ram and stuff and with that i upgraded my video board too to the new 
 asus en8800gts 512mb but before all that on my first play on cod4 as i was saying i still haded 
 that average pc and i was thinking that was my biggest problem after i installed i got to the main 
 menu and after to video settings i put the res at 1024x768 all high 2xaa aniso filtering no shadows 
 at soften smoke edges and textures all to extra and i clicked apply and was expecting to see 20 
 or 29 fps and instead i had 40 fps!!!! now that's an example of how games need to be optimized 
 unlime nfs pro street. Ok For Last The gameplay the gameplay of this game is aweasomeand when i 
 say aweasome i mean it everything in it if i had to writte it all my keyboard would melt:) So a 
 little awesome it's good for now the same for the sound, multiplayer, graphics, and all. For Me it's 
 gonna be the second most favourited shooter of 2008 first it is the state of the art game crysis:) 
 :) So That's my review Have a good day. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Majin-Ryan
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 15, 2008 8:59 pm PT
Review:  I'm not much of a fan for war FPS' but this game had such a great story and look that made me feel 
 like I really was there in the battlefield. 
  
  The controls are what you come to expect from a FPS so theres nothing really much to go into detail 
 here, unfortunately for people who like to use gamepads there isn't any function for letting you 
 do that, but you could always get a 3rd party program that will let you map out the controls from 
 the keyboard to your pad.
  
  I'm picky when it comes to playing FPS' because I don't like FPS's with the same dull story but 
 this has a pretty engaging story and it actually kept me interested and got me caught up in it. 
 
  
  You get the same old weapons found in most games (Assault, hand gun, sniper and rpgs) my favourite 
 has to be the javelin. I love watching it shoot up into the sky and crash on them poor suckers 
 xD of course the weapons have to look good, and with graphics as good as these they look really 
 sweet.
  
  I've not had chance to play the multiplayer part of it yet but I plan to and hope to have a great 
 time playing.
  
  Long story (or review) short, if you want a great shooter that you will remember for years to come, 
 get Call of Duty 4. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chrisofsteel
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 13, 2008 9:53 am PT
Review:  Single player was entirely too short, I wanted much more!! I flew through the Normal mode in no 
 time, but Hard mode was definitely more challenging. This game is so realistic, it is incredibly 
 accurate as far as weapons are concerned, but I do miss the smoke grenades from previous Call of 
 Duties. The sniper level is extraordinary and quite original, not to mention pretty difficult. 
 The ending to the game was awesome, the plot was well planned. This is the next evolution of the 
 Call of Duty series. With so many WWII era games out there, including all older Call of Duty versions, 
 this game is a exceptional change. The extra unlockables are a great addition, especially cluster 
 frag grenades! Graphics are intense and you will need a high end PC + Graphics card to play on 
 the higher graphics settings. I would highly recommend this game to anyone who loves playing first 
 person shooters in the modern world!!!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: BorkaBonum
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 13, 2008 4:03 am PT
Review:  So, there's been three previous games in the franschise, all of those before has been built upon 
 the Second World War and been reaching to levels where it is not even funny anymore after tons 
 of expansions, console-exclusives, and just tons of nobody-cares-installations, so to speak. But 
 Activision decided to go for something fresh within the Call of Duty franschise and build yo
  upon a more fictional modern crisis with tendences of events happening right now. 
  
  If I'd 
 start with the campaign; You're playing the role from a first person perspective of a variety of 
 different characters on the field, some spontanous moves from person to person is found so you're 
 not playing one single role, you're playing through the eyes of a different set of characters some 
 more important than others. In the start of the campaign you're a S. A. S. member nicknamed 'Soap' 
 and you and Captain Price (from previous games) and a couple of other soldiers presented later 
 on is on a mission to secure a potent nuclear device on a cargo ship passing on Russian sea where 
 the Ultranationalists with connection with the Rebels in the Middle-East are trying to set up some 
 fire works. That's basicly the plot of the entire story, the "bad guys" got nukes and you're off 
 to set things right by defeating the leaders in charge both in Russia and the Middle-East. It feels 
 solid, nothing new, but still presented in such a way you'd feel like playing on for sure. 
  
  The biggest problem with the campaign is the heavily scripted sequences where you have to do 
 *this* or *that* to stop the waves of enemies just popping up. By having that said, the AI for 
 the enemies is criticaly bad and compensated with bringing them up where odds are 30:1 on your 
 side, but you and your allies are taking that punishment like its nothing. I'd rather see alot 
 better AI, less enemies and more realistic approach without making it too much of a tactical shooter 
 - like they did in FEAR with the solid AI found there. Thinking of it, there's been so many years 
 since FEAR yet this game couldn't even apply a bit of that AI. Pity. So it just feels silly when 
 there's 40 Rebels outside your chopper and they shoot, miss, stands still and just wishes to die. 
 That has always been the problem in Call of Duty, but the ideas of having great amounts of opponents 
 during a World War sounds more reasonable than having equally many opponents just beeing Russian 
 Ultranationalists. 
  
  However, the campaign is fluid and varied enough to make it interesting, terrific briefing before 
 each mission and everything rolls on like it should. Once you've finished the game you'll unlock 
 Cheats and Arcade which brings in alot of replay value as the Cheats is represented by twisting 
 the gameplay mechanism turning game greyscale, making enemies puke out tyres when you hit them, 
 instead of blood, etc. But all cheats require you to find a certain amount of enemy Intels during 
 the game and there's 30 in the entire game for you to find in order to utilize different cheats. 
 
  
  Another annoying twist in the campaign is the absence of the powerful quotes when you're dying 
 in the game. In the previous games there was powerful, true and known quotes by leaders, soldiers, 
 and just true quotes. In the latest game there's trash like "Nothing is more powerful than a Marine 
 and his Rifle" which is just American trash - and some briefings also include nothing but American 
 hardware such as the M1A2 Abrams sheet with pricing and bold text saying the M1A2 is covered by 
 Steel-housed Depleted Uranium, which is actually causing the death of many American soldiers as 
 the armor will leak radioactive material on any punisment given, same thing with the Shells used. 
 I don't understand why they even mentioned it, that's like saying "Hi, America is the best - just 
 look how we put our soldiers into next to certain death only to limit the expenses of the Armor 
 technique we use". 
  
  Enough of the campaign, it sure is a part of the game but the focus has always been the Multiplayer. 
 In the Multiplayer you will have a rank to strive for, different unlockable weapons, perks (abilities) 
 and challenges to keep the game solid for quite some time to come. For example you can reach a 
 set of different levels with each weapon depending on how many Headshots you make, general kills, 
 etc. which all in all brings you more addons to the weapons, such as Silencers, Scopes, Red-Dot 
 sights, you name it. You can adapt to any given situation and playing style via this which is fantastic. 
 As you're making killing streaks in the Multiplayer you can also call in specials such as UAV Recon 
 which will detect all opponents in the field but those with the UAV Scrambler Perk unlocked later 
 in the game, and after multiple streaks you can call in chopper-support and Airstrikes which will 
 be a good resource for you and your team. There's alot of game modes and a nice set of maps with 
 scenarios found in the Campaign but edited to fit every game mode (with certain exceptions) so 
 there'll be alot to do for a long time. 
  
  All and all, this is a very potent Multiplayer game with a solid Campaign that makes a overall 
 exceptional impression. Solid visuals, though the engine can't handle certain scenes without destroying 
 the characters siloutes, but scenes in-doors or maps with minor light from above will render everything 
 just exceptional. The game will pretty much work on any given system, and the visuals can adapt 
 to scale about any platform which makes it appealing not only for those with the highest-end platforms. 
 
  
  I'd recommend this game for everybody looking for a solid multiplayer game. But if you're looking 
 for the best Team-Play Multiplayer game this might not be the best as there's no real connection 
 between the players, its more competing with who has the best score within the team - which actually 
 is cooler than it sounds, but is not fitting everyone. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GiveMeIce
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 12, 2008 10:08 pm PT
Review:  If you are a hardcore gamer or just a fan of fps, you simply NEED this game! I'm usually not so 
 easy on fps games but this might just be one of the best fps games I've played on pc. I bought 
 this game on the 1st of January and played over 50 hours! I still play this game about 2-3 hours 
 a day because of it's fantastic gameplay. So anyway let's get into why it's so great.
  
  First off the Single Player. By far the best of the 4 games! Right off the bat on the first level 
 after training, you know what your in for. The game starts of the set of a Cargo ship and I'm not 
 going to spoil it for everyone, but let's just say after the primary objective is complete, you 
 get a little suprise that you've yet to see on the other games, simply amazing.
  
  Multiplayer is where it's at! Every person has a ranking starting at Level 1, as you play online 
 and kill, send out UAV's, Airstrikes, and Helicopters according to the amount of kills you get 
 without dying, and other things, you gain Experience points. These add to your XP bar at the bottom 
 of the screen, and when the bar fills up, you level up gaining new equipment, perks, and weapons 
 as you can customize to your liking. All the weapons besides pistols are highly customizable and 
 can be attuned to the players advantage.
  
  Each player can make a Custom Class as of Level 4, with this you can customize your weapons and 
 perks. Perks are like little power-ups or little tricks that players can have, such as last stand 
 where when you die you lay on the ground and try to take some with you with your sidearm before 
 you die. The others are like drop a grenade when you die, or increased health, and many others.
 
  
  Equipment and weapon camo can be unlocked through Achievements that can be Achieved with most every 
 weapon, with the achievements complete you gain a decent XP boost and also Equipment and Weapon 
 camo for the weapon in which the achievement was unlocked. Every weapon has achievements for headshots 
 and just normal kill count, and each weapon has 3 Phases of Achievements which require more kills 
 or headshots each Phase.
  
  As for gametypes you can play Deathmatch, Team Deathmatch, Domination, Search and Destroy, and 
 Headquarters. Each gametype and Map played required different Custom Classes and need to be chosen 
 wisely. With 5 different Custom Classes, you can be prepared to have whatever you need to get the 
 job done.
  
  Anyway nonetheless, I say GET this game. This will be enjoyed by any type of fps gamer. I highly 
 recommend this game! I had my doubts on this one after seeing the horrid CoD 3 which was an epic 
 fail, but I was quickly proven wrong when I got my eyes on this one.
  
  Final Score : 9.5 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FriendBear
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 12, 2008 1:52 pm PT
Review:  After spending well over an hour researching forums in order to fix the infamous appcrash after 
 installing CoD4 and having it constantly crash because on on-board soundcard driver issues and 
 eventually fixing it, I was finally rewarded with being able to play, after completing the rather 
 obvious tutorial stages and heading into the first mission which somewhat reminded me of the first 
 level in MSG2, CoD4 immediately gave me the impressions that the single player game is going to 
 be excellent, and throughout the story it doesn't disappoint one bit, one giant thrill-ride, however 
 my only compliant is that its a little short, as it can be completed in anything from 2-5 hours.
 
  
  + Excellent story
  + Excellent weapon physics
  + Enemy AI is smart
  + Above par graphics and effects
  + Best CoD in the series so far
  - Too short
  
  Multiplayer 
 side, unfortuntely I have to bash pretty hard like with most of my FPS reviews simply because of 
 obvious griefers/script kiddies ruining any chance of competive fun. http://www. pbbans. com/mbi. php 
 pretty much says it all, every 9 mins or so Punkbuster is catching some of the more noobish kiddies, 
 however PB isn't nearly good enough to catch the more seasoned hacker, and thats where all FPS 
 online epic fail, any form of hacking/cheating should be seriously clamped down on because it ruins 
 great games online, and CoD4 definately has a small but very determined group of hackers griefing 
 the servers.
  
  Multiplayer is best played on private 'passworded' servers with friends or clan members to totally 
 ensure a hack free game, even then, thats unfortuntely not gaureenteed.
  
  Basically with FPS online it boils down to this, and this alone. The better the game, the more 
 people it'll have cheating in order to win or show off, CoD4 is definately one of the better games 
 in the past few years, and the amount of cheaters definately reflects that, if you don't care about 
 winning/losing in MP, then CoD4 is for you.
  
  + Fun multiplayer
  - Too many script kiddies with epeens
  - PB not filtering out enough aimbots/hacks quick enough 
 to ensure a cheater free game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JDFS
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 12, 2008 4:22 am PT
Review:  I bought it and I'm glad I did, 2007 was not a big year for PC gaming (2008 will be) but CoD4 kind 
 of make it up for the lack of interesting games (except Bioshock and Crysis) in 2007.
  
  - The single player is indeed short, but the single player is very well done, unlike many games 
 on today's market, I wasn't disappointed at all with the single player because the stories of each 
 characters were awesome and they really put you into this character back then, hence very addictive 
 and become easy to finish the game in a few days of play, but you won't regret the experience.
 
  
  - BUT no need to say that the greatest moment of CoD4 is the multiplayer here, I've been playing 
 since the first day and I'll be playing for the next few years just like I did with the first one 
 of the series, hoping to not see cheaters anytime soon.
  I reached rank 55 in a few hours but I still go for more XP points, perks and weapons, you just 
 can't get enough of it, plus the maps are great, only 1 map out of 16 I dislike (because it's ridiculously 
 small) , so they did a very good job with it too.
  
  - Graphics: are outstanding if you got a good PC, a very big step since its little brother, can't 
 be disappointed with it.
  
  - Sounds: well as a soldier I have nothing to complain about it, anyway sounds are from real weapons, 
 what is there to complain?
  
  If you like realistic-like FPS, this is one of the few games released in 2007 that I will tell 
 you to go buy right now, it'll be totally worth your 40 or 50 bucks.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: weilongli2003
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 10, 2008 1:25 pm PT
Review:  You will not believe the amount of time I have waited for COD4, and when it came out, I'm happy 
 to say, it is one of the best games I have ever played. It totally trumps Halo 3 in multiplayer, 
 and has great replay value, with it's many difficulties and the Arcade Mode. On multiplayer, there 
 are many modes, which is very great, but my favorites are Search and Destroy and Team Deathmatch. 
 There is no Capture the Flag or the ordinary objective games, but there are stuff like Domination 
 and Headquarters. Plus, the ordinary Free-For-All, etc. On the Single Player side, I think it was 
 a little short, but very fulfilling. Getting to go through Chernobyll in a Ghillie Suit, or being 
 blown up by a nuclear bomb, or even stopping nuclear war, it was extremely fun. Getting to play 
 as Marines and SAS added to that, even though I think that Sgt. Jackson should have been able to 
 survive, like SSgt. Griggs. Other than that, a perfect game, one for the record books. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jason4774
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 10, 2008 11:23 am PT
Review:  Truth be told, I'm kinda turned off by the current trend of shooters. They all seem graphically 
 compelling, but soon enough, the realistic combat gives way to lab experiment monsters, or people 
 controlled by some genetic mutation, or something. The "horror shooter", i call it, goes as far 
 back as the original Doom, and while they've come a long way to become more intense and genuinely 
 frightening (Half Life 2 stands out as probably the peak of this trend to me as the shining accomplishment) , 
 it's dissapointing that even now, developers seem uninterested in creating genuinely engaging shooters 
 that tell good stories without some mutated evil in danger of taking control/conquering/or destroying 
 the world as we know it.
  
  Enter Call of Duty 4. I have to admit, citing my former complaint, I felt that war games were just 
 as used up (if not more so) than horror shooters. Maybe Infinity Ward felt the same way, cause 
 this game is absolutely engaging from the moment you start playing, to the final scene of the game.
 
  
  On a story level, it's nothing new. Radical group in middle east in danger of overthrowing current 
 government, and potentially has a nuclear device.
  
  The gameplay is what sells this simple story, and allows it to transcend into a larger plot. When 
 you're on the streets of Iraq, it feels like you're in the middle of a street firefight, trying 
 to find any cover you can to save your life. The firefights there are possibly the most intense 
 even made for a video game. Shootouts in a tv station newsroom, rushing through backlots to save 
 a stranded tank, and calling in helipoter aid to mow down a building... and all of it feels genuine, 
 fast paced, and in a word... real.
  
  The SAS missions, are where IW got very creative. Starting from the opening mission of being dropped 
 on a ship in the middle on an ocean storm, sneaking into camps saving informants, or holed up military 
 leaders, the most eerily realistic infrared gunship providing ground fire to allow the SAS unit 
 to escape...
  
  ... and last but not least, one of the most well concieved sniper missions of all time. (I SWEAR, 
 this mission, alone, is worth playing the game!)
  
  A quick insert on combat is worth noting. This game obviously aims (no pun) to be a realistic shooter. 
 But unlike Far Cry and Crysis, where that realism seems to slow the combat, COD4 is fast. Your 
 characters run fast, they aim fast, they shoot fast. They also get shot at fast, enimies duck for 
 cover fast, and RPG shells and grenades come in fast. Combat feels like combat.
  
  The authenticity on every mission is what sells the story. The tone of the NPC's matches the mission. 
 In the middle east, your lieutenant is shouting orders quickly and frantically, which sells the 
 realism, but he's genuinely giving you good information to complete an objective, so he really 
 feels like a superier, and one worth listenting to. Switch from that, and the calm on the gunship, 
 with the pilot chuckling as bodies flying from high caliber explosions seems eerily well suited 
 for that environment.
  
  And did I mention the sniper mission yet?!?
  
  Others have said the campaign is short, but I don't find it lacking, and actually was surprised 
 that it was able to cover so much ground so quickly, without ever feeling chopped, or left feeling 
 like they short changed me to rush a product out. From first mission to last, it's a well conceived 
 story, fleshed out by the missions, which for the player and the story, provide alot of variety 
 and twists to keep it all moving, with an insane amount of kinetic momentum and play variety in 
 the missions to keep you moving along.
  
  I haven't mentioned the multiplayer, so I'll sum it up here real quick. It's awesome! So are alot 
 of the players who play. If you're coming from Halo 3 to this, be prepared to get your @ss handed 
 to you for a good while. If you're willing to allow yourself to die alot, some of the games are 
 genuinely satisfying, and the teammode games, with the right people, give a real sense of accomplishments. 
 Oh yes, sidenote, you're gonna hate grenades... alot!
  
  You know how sometimes a movie will come out, and you'll ask your friend what is was about, and 
 they say "well, it's like... um, just go see it, cause i can't really describe it!" cause it's that 
 unique, and it's that good. That's COD4. No review really has, or really can, do this game the 
 justice of explaining how amazing a game it is to play. Cause it was meant to be played, and it's 
 a throughly rewarding gameplay!
  
  Great things transcend their genre. Van Gogh was not just another oil painter. Seven Samurai was 
 not just another hack and slash samurai movie. And Call of Duty 4 is not just another military 
 shooter. It's a well concieved masterpiece. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lagoonate
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 10, 2008 9:15 am PT
Review:  When the Prologue finished to load, and Capt. Price appear on screen, I literally went "Holly sh**!!" 
 (and I'm a Spanish speaker XD) . Je, but seriously, the game's graphics are just awesome and feel, 
 in my humble opinion, more real than the ones in Crysis. The level design and game events are among 
 the best seen in the whole Call of Duty series, and as the story is fictional and the way they 
 introduce you to it, this latest installment seems even more like a movie than its predecessors. 
 
  But, as every thing in this world, has a down side; the game is kind of short, not so that you 
 will feel disappointed but... well lets just say that I'm really looking forward for an expansion 
 (and soon) . Also, some of the last levels with the S. A. S. Team, in terms of scenography, could 
 get a little repetitive. And the Veteran difficulty its much harder now, to the point that some 
 parts of some levels could get a little tiresome. 
  But anyway, stuff like, the flash back level, the javelin, truly unexpected turn of events, make 
 any dislike go away faster than a speeding bullet. (Finally, I had a chance to use that expression 
 :P)
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ravenswolf90
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 10, 2008 7:40 am PT
Review:  I am pretty much in agreement with alot of other people when I say it was Fun and very fast paced. 
 Took awhile to get ahold of the controls for the PC, but then again I have been gone for 7 months 
 in Iraq. The Detail was what I expected, I also played CoD2, this was a nice change. It will be 
 tough to put down for sure, even though I miss my online games when Im playing this late at night 
 with my headphones on. Can't wait to play during the day when the wife is gone to work and I can 
 play it loud on my new Surround sound system. Makes me wonder what they are going to add for the 
 first expansion if there is one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Elothran
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 10, 2008 6:04 am PT
Review:  Activision has released a game again that will nail us on our chairs till we finish and see what 
 happens at the end.
  
  Cinematic Intro is completely fabulous, the way you see people getting shot at street, the dogs, 
 the conflicts on the streets etc. 
  
  As usual we are shown as heroes, not soldiers... we are not a special force to be honest, don't 
 really believe special forces can kick butt of massive numbers that hard at the same time.
  
  "Soap" Mac Tavish, oh my G. D what a name. Captain Price is not really seems like a captain 
 but a friend of ours during the game. And they chat with Gaz like they're father and son. Also 
 the dialogues made by american forces are funny.
  
  Gaz: Are they good Russians or bad Russians sir?
  Cpt. Price: If you mean that 'will they shoot 
 us at sight' by that, no...
  
  ****
  USSoldier: The tape is a recording Sir. No sign of Al-Asad.. (After seeing there is no one at the 
 boradcast room)
  USSoldier2: Score for Military Intelligence...
  
  ****
  At the stage: Death From Above, you support Cpt. Price and his team by an aircraft that has 3 guns 
 and a beam sensor that tells you if the person in your screen is friend or foe.
  
  SASSoldier: Bravo Six you see the curve on the road?
  Aircraft Captain (or not sure who is it) : 
 You mean the curve that leads the junkyard?
  SASSoldier: No the curve next to the water tower...
  Cpt: Err.. cant confirm...
  
  ****
 
  After you enter the launch facility, Gaz takes Yanks and goes to main security room to unlock 
 the main doors to the war room. But the gates opens extremely slow...
  
  Ssgt. Griggs: Oh you gotta be s.... ing me!!...
  Cpt. Price: Gaz can't you make it open faster 
 ?
  Gaz: Negative Sir.... But you can try pulling it if that will make you feel better...
  Cpt. Price: Cheeky b... ard...
  
  ****
  After you stop the launch you get out to hangar with 
 an elevator.
  
  Ssgt. Griggs: I wouldn't mind to get a shot on Zakhaev Sir.
  Cpt. Price: Yeah geat in line mate, if he doesn't finds us first.
  
  ****
  And the last dialogue 
 that made me hesitate during the play when I heard it and thought ( Oh my G. D so thatts how it works? 
 You do the dirty job and get thrown away like a dirty tissue? Is it that simple to be given up?.)
 
  After The Command Base refuses to send helicopters for help to Cpt. Price and his team.
  
  Cpt. Price: Gaz !! Gimme that signal for the helicopters!!
  Gaz: Captain Price!! We.. Are.. On.. Our.. Own.. Sir 
 !!!
  ****
  
  At the end it is like a burden to see every single member of your team dying.
  
  - Ssgt. Griggs 
 shot and Killed In Action after the explosion at the bridge on your last stand. He was trying to 
 save you by dragging you away from harm. So he had one arm occupied and tried to protect himself 
 with a pistol.
  
  - Gaz got shot in the head by Imran Zakhaev when he was laying on the ground and trying to wake 
 up.
  
  - Cpt. Price, gave you his own weapon so you could kill Imran Zakhaev and his guards. He was having 
 a heart attack I suppose at the end of the game. His legs were broken. And when Cpt. Kamarov and 
 his man came to save you from battleground, a medic was doing CPR for him. (cor pulmonary resisutation) .
 
  
  Controls and gameplay was easy as always. This game is another classic that we all should have 
 in our archive. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: brendangagain
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 9, 2008 5:19 pm PT
Review:  I have always wanted to play a perfect war simulation game, ever since my parents would by them 
 for me. No FPS has ever really won my heart, that is until Call of Duty 4. COD4 is a state of the 
 art FPS, from capaign mode to the online play, Call of Duty is flawless. COD4 online is amazingly 
 thought out. The gamerooms are easy to join, when you create your own party you can invite friends 
 in a matter of seconds, and when you get a kill you feel like you have truly accomplished something 
 unforgettable, that is until your next kill.
  If you have played a previous Call of Duty game and were let down, go and pick up a copy of Call 
 of Duty 4: Modern Warfare to help get you feeling good again. Call of Duty 4 is an awsome sensation 
 you can't explain until you have truly experienced it first person. COD4 is like going to war and 
 having unlimited deaths. You get a adrenilin rush the entire time you play.
  Gamers everywhere have fallen in love with COD4, and I think you will to. I rate this game a 10.0 
 for it's amazing online gameplay, top of the line graphics, and the best way to spend 60 dollars.
 
  Brendan 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DangerClown
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 9, 2008 9:33 am PT
Review:  While the campaign is too short, it's is awesome and has more than a couple 'wow' moments, with 
 many a 'neat' thrown in for good measure. Graphics are incredible, esp lighting and shadows. Sound 
 is solid as always. Game play is as intense as it is fun. Bad guys are getting to be really life 
 like, kinda scarry the way their heads come apart. 
  
  Missions are mostly go from here to there and don't get killed while engaging in major blood bathing. 
 Sorry for the spoiler, but the Specter Gunship mission is the most fun rail sequence ever. The 
 game looks incredible on my 8800gts and still looks good on my 7600gt box. 
  
  It's just too bad there weren't any Ruskie missions in this game; would have added more flavor. 
 The Russian misisons in the previous COD titles added interesting perspectives not explored in 
 other games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ilovecod1234
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 9, 2008 8:23 am PT
Review:  i waited for my copy of call of duty 4 patiently, i had a feeling it was going to be something special, and 
 so it turned out. Call of Duty 4 is an epic game which will go down in history books as one of the 
 best games ever made. Right from the start till the very end Call of Duty 4 will let u experience 
 real war in ur homes!! The single player is just incredible, action is as intense as the previous 
 COD games but this time its more like playing a 3 hour long movie, and the game is not short!!!! 
 Then u've got the multiplayer which has got so much content and i feel that multiplayer will only 
 get better from here, this is just the beginning. COD ALL THE WAY!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cobalt1365
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 9, 2008 12:19 am PT
Review:  The first thing I have to say is that Call of Duty 4's single player is fantastic. The single player 
 gameplay is varied and rapidly moving... it seems like you're always doing something different, 
 from calling in airstrikes to manning the guns in an AC-130, to an extreme-covert sniper mission. 
 The modern day setting is a breath of fresh air for the Call of Duty series, although I would have 
 happily played another WWII game. This game also had probably the largest  
 event I've ever experienced in a game. The final level, and especially the last part of the final 
 level played like a Behind Enemy Lines-type movie. While that may not sound like much, having a 
 game (especially a shooter) outdo a movie in terms of story is rare indeed.
  
  After just getting off playing Crysis long enough to beat COD4, I can't say that the graphics or 
 interactivity were on the same level, but Call of Duty 4 did look pretty fantastic. The lighting 
 and detail looked magnifacent, and I really felt like I was watching highlight reels from the Gulf 
 War in the gunship. In terms of technology, COD4 didn't innovate much, they just improved even 
 more on their already stellar earlier games. One of the most impressive things about COD4 for me 
 was how smoothly it ran for how well it looked. I turned up settings I wouldn't have dreamed about 
 in Crysis, and frame rates moved along smoothly. That said, however, it would still kick most computers 
 in the nuts were the graphics settings to be maxed out.
  
  The bottom line: Infinity Ward stuck with their very successful Call of Duty formula, and made 
 a grandslam amidst their homerun games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thatmy
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 8, 2008 11:51 am PT
Review:  This is the game, that's simply too good with words can be described.
  Tried the demo. Wanted to buy this great game but I decided not to buy it because I have many bad 
 online multiplayer experiences while playing EA BF2 & expansions. Simply to says are cheat playing, 
 disruption of playing, unfair playing, instant dead without sign of lagging , repeatance of killing 
 by same shooter within minutes and the complains go on never ending.... And that's wasting time 
 and money :) Anyway, I will buy it if the game has some basic online play protections to the ordinary 
 player like me. hee hee. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PinkAngelDead
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 8, 2008 3:51 am PT
Review:  Call of Duty 4 has to be one of the best games I've played on the xbox 360 so far! The graphics 
 are stunning and the game plot is really interesting. The only flaw of the game, like most other 
 shooters, is the fact that the single player is too short. When you complete the game you just 
 want there to be more levels! I guess that's good though, leaving you wanting more. I especially 
 like the different levels of difficulty, Veteran is just insane! It's definitely worth it though 
 if you cruise through the recruit levels! One of the best features of the game is the way that 
 the levels are set out, giving you a different gaming experience in each level i. e. Helicopter 
 shoot-outs, field combat etc. I highly recommend playing this game if you haven't already, it's 
 definitely one for your collection! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Suliman-Uchia
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 7, 2008 4:43 pm PT
Review:  When it comes to FPS's, and any other shooter for that matter, you have your current kings, namely: 
 Halo, Rainbow Six (and all of it's "spawns", like GRAW) and Gears of War (still) . Throw BioShock 
 in there if you want... whatever. You get the point. Now - take from each of those games the best 
 aspects... throw them together, and you have Call of Duty 4: Modern Warfare.
  
  Simply put - you'll love this game, even if you don't like military or first-person shooters. If 
 you're the type that strictly plays the single-player mode, then I'd rent first, just to be sure 
 it's for you. For me, even the story mode keeps me coming back. This game is a BEAST, and it's 
 a BEAST on every platform it's on - 360, PS3 and PC.
  
  Infinity Ward understands FPS's - their absence was noticed immediately in Call of Duty 3, which 
 sucked. They're back. This game is a few MINOR elements away from absolute perfection, in my opinion. 
 And you don't get better than perfection.
  
  I'll get the little gripes out of the way:
  
  1. No Co-Op campaign. As frantic as every stage is, coupled with the fact that there's really 
 no point on the game where you're not at least with ONE other player - usually more - I thought 
 this should be available. It's pretty much standard now in the next-gen FPS's, but surprisingly 
 absent here. Hmmm...
  
  2. The whole 'friendly-fire' thing... I realize that this is realistic, but it's pretty frustrating 
 sometimes - moreso here than in a game like Rainbow Six, simply because there's no easily identifiable 
 icon or marker. I don't need THAT level of realism in a game - just my opinion. Yes, your recticle 
 is red if it's on an enemy and green for a friendly, but during all of the fighting, that's really 
 hard to see. Coupled with the fact that a lot of the enemies are wearing uniforms pretty similar 
 to YOURS, you may end up accidentally shooting your squad more than you'd care to admit, especially 
 on the Veteran difficulty level.
  
  (That's really it for the 'gripes' - the other is more of an personal preference for me. I'd rather 
 have more gameplay modes available in the multiplayer right off the bat, but I can also see how 
 starting off with just the initial two works.
  
  You may notice that I haven't complained about the duration of the story mode... while short, I 
 doubt that any of the other reviewers that are slamming it have "breezed through in a few hours" 
 on any difficulty higher than Sick Infant - that's before Rookie, if you're wondering. The story 
 is compelling; there are actual moments where your chest and heart actually POUND - tell me the 
 "All Ghillied Up" stage didn't have you holding your breath in real life, I dare you. Other games, 
 while significantly longer, don't always fill their time with substance. A game like BioShock doesn't 
 have an online mode, so it's story HAS to carry it entirely. Halo 3 is longer, sure... but most 
 of it is retracing your steps back through previously played boards. No thank you. Apart from an 
 effective story mode, this game's "bread and butter" is in the online multiplayer. Just like Halo 
 3. Just like RB6: Vegas. Just like Gears of War. Online play is what will keep this game, and others, 
 being played for years to come.)
  
  ... and that's it, folks. Nothing else bad here. AT ALL. Period.
  
  Gameplay - the game is phenomenal. 
 Even if the campaign is rather on the short side (took about 6 or so hours playing on Normal - 
 Veteran or Hardened will probably double that time, plus some) it is undeniably entertaining. While 
 it may not necessarily be breaking new ground as far as plot, it STILL is far more engaging that 
 Rainbow Six: Vegas's campaign mode, which is great, as well as Gears of War and even the mighty 
 Halo 3. (just my opinion) (A+)
  
  Graphics - arguably the best on any console, period. I give it the nod over Gears of War and BioShock 
 - this is the best looking game I have ever played, and it runs (with all the chaos going on) at 
 a smooth 60 frames per second is 1080P HD glory. The word gets thrown around alot with these newer 
 systems, but this game is truly Photo-Realistic. The only thing I've seen comparable would be Crysis, 
 another military shooter -and that's (not surprisingly) a PC-only game at the moment. It absolutely 
 does not get any better than COD4. (A++)
  
  Sound - as good as anything out now. The musical numbers are all spot-on, and the dialogue and 
 combat chatter is phenomenal. Top notch all the way around - no "forced" sounding acting here. 
 This games sounds like it was recorded during actual combat. (A+)
  
  Multiplayer - time will tell if it will stand up to the insanely deep Halo Multiplayer mode, or 
 the ridiculously addictive multiplayer modes on GoW or RB6, but even in this early stage COD4 is 
 more than holding it's own. Choose from a preset variety of classes - sniper, assault, heavy gunner, 
 etc. and get to killing. Kill enough and eventually unlock the ability to create your OWN class 
 - and that's where the fun really gets going. There's a rank structure, but with there being absolutly 
 ZERO offical multiplayer achievements, hopefully this will minimize people's tendency to cheat. 
 (big problem on RB6) Ranking up does have it's privileges, however... different weapons, customizations 
 for those weapons (scopes, skins, etc.) How new players feel about playing months from now when 
 the majority of their combatants have superior equipment remains to be seen... balancing could 
 be an issue there. The way it's set up though, if you're good at FPS's (and you know who you are) , 
 you will be alright. There's some work to be done with the team balancing... and I would prefer 
 the ability to choose which maps I play on during ranked matches, but all in all, pretty solid. 
 (A)
  
  Replay Value - extremely high, even with a relatively short campaign. All of the achievements for 
 the game come from the Campaign mode, yet over half of them require you to beat the game on one 
 of the two harder difficulty levels. (not recommended for first-timers - frustration WILL ensue... 
 as well as bullets, grenades and dog bites) Hell, even the TRAINING MODULE is fun and gets replay 
 - Halo can't say that. This game is ridiculous. Even as varied as multiplayer is by nature, the 
 Prestige Mode adds a new level to it. Make it all the way to Level 55, then you have "a tough decision" 
 to make... (A+)
  
  Overall - Dangerously Good. I give it an A+, or a solid 9.9998 out of 10 (I stand by the fact that 
 a co-op campaign would render a potential Call of Duty 5 pointless) This is one of the best games 
 ever. After playing the Beta earlier this year, I proclaimed that this could be a sleeper for Game 
 of the Year, while everyone else was obviously sold on Halo... maybe a few for BioShock. This has 
 them both, hands down. The only surprising part is how convincingly better this game is than the 
 other GOTY frontrunners. All other FPS's (particularly military FPS's) need to take notice - this 
 is BY FAR the best ever. (Note to Tom Clancy and the folks at UbiSoft: you have work to do for 
 that next Rainbow Six. The bar is WAY up there now... don't disappoint) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GamerLordz
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 7, 2008 1:39 pm PT
Review:  The meticulous care IW took to faithfully recreate WWII-era weaponry was also given to bringing 
 modern armaments to life. Many of the incredible tools of war used today come into play in COD4. 
 You'll man the weapons of the AC-130 Gunship, which flies above the battlefield and fires 105mm 
 rounds that decimate the enemy; make big explosions with Javelin missiles, which drop straight 
 down to hit the thinner top armor of tanks; and cycle through a small arsenal of both light and 
 heavy guns featuring a variety of scopes and augmentations. With an astonishing number of enemies 
 in the field (half of whom seem to carry rocket launchers) , you are going to need every last bit 
 of modern tech to survive.
  
  Unlike Infinity Ward's previous iterations of Call of Duty, Modern Warfare tells one contiguous 
 story. Though you will hop between perspectives of the British S. A. S. and the U. S. Marines, each 
 leap continues the progression of a single storyline. It's an effective tool. While the story itself -- which 
 revolves around stolen Russian nukes and Mid-Eastern terrorists bent on destroying the Great Satan 
 (that's you and your grandma) -- isn't exactly cutting edge, it's enjoyable. And more importantly, 
 IW finds ways to make you care for every last one of your teammates. Of course, no good guys die 
 in war, right? There aren't so much "twists" as there are shocking moments in the storyline. You 
 may find yourself in disbelief not only at some of the events that take place, but in the direct 
 manner in which the most startling moments are often told. There are a few too many shell-shocked 
 slow-mo moments that seem to drag to the point of almost being frustrating, but credit Infinity 
 Ward for not backing down from wartime melodrama.
  
  If you played the original Call of Duty or its sequel, then you will have little trouble hopping 
 into COD4. This is not a revolution of game controls. Infinity Ward maintains its smart system 
 of rewarding players for aiming down the sight before firing; you can run from cover to cover (an 
 absolute necessity to survive the utter insanity in some of the levels) ; you have a one-click melee 
 attack; there are a few highlighted spots that require a button press to interact with (how else 
 would one plant C4 on an AA gun?) ; and yes you can once again pick up live grenades and throw them 
 back at the enemy. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: dm_tugs
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 6, 2008 11:51 pm PT
Review:  this is great game but little bit short play in single player. there were several new thing in 
 the sound, graphic and also campaign. i like it very much but not for long time cuz i finished 
 all campaign. 
  
  I wish there would be more campaigns in the next time. I want to play more but I don not want to 
 play again and again in same thing same place same mission. many people like to enjoy its multiplayer. 
 however, other people like to play single player more than multiplayer because it is more interesting 
 to achieve mission instead of just killing others.
  
  of course there are soo many good things too. like ... this version has made very attractive, impressive, 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: volkof
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 6, 2008 10:57 pm PT
Review:  I love this game! It is everything that CoD2 was supposed to be and so much more! The only reason 
 I did not give it a perfect ten is that RETRIEVAL was not added as a game type.
  
  I'm glad the single player was short. I wanted to get right to multi player. After playing Call 
 of Duty: United offensive since its release, Modern warfare was a welcome improvement. No other 
 game was able to satisfy what the original installment offered. Infinity ward really nailed it 
 this time. From a hardcore online player i say, great job. Give us an expansion and more maps and 
 game types that include RETRIEVAL. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pico21
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 6, 2008 7:50 pm PT
Review:  It's an amazing game. It completely lives up to the hype. I've logged over 100 hours on the multiplayer 
 alone and have never been dissapointed once. My clan is also part of a new growing ladder system 
 known as TaG, total assault gaming league. With the emersion of all these great new options COD 
 4 will be long lived. It will dissapoint no returning fans and will definently draw some new fans 
 into the mix. Seeing as this is Infinity Ward's first M rated COD title it's not necessarily for 
 the little kids. Although unless u run a super computer like either mine or some of my friends 
 or do headshot with a desert eagle from point blank range the M rating is definently not deserved. 
 So get out there and enjoy a great new title. Long live Call of Duty. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: novangeljohnny
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 6, 2008 6:37 pm PT
Review:  An insanely polished game, with intensity and action to rival any shooter currenty. The graphics 
 help the immerse the player in the brutality of warfare. The multiplayer is unique and fresh from 
 the rest of them out there, with the ranks and challenges to keep the player challenged. If only 
 it the SP wasn't as short...
  Personally the Spectre mission was the most refreshing out in the SP.
  Bravo, and a Congrats 
 to Infinity ward for their masterpiece of Modern Warfare. A true classic which would only expand 
 with time...
  
  P. S = The .50 cal proved too weak in MP
  
  Lieut Nov, out 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dead888
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 6, 2008 2:57 pm PT
Review:  Call Of Duty 4 : Modern Warfare is easily the best game in the COD series.
  Instead offering the same World War 2 atmosphere again the game is set in the present time with 
 modern Warfare. The gameplay is still similar to the old games but here you have modern weapons 
 and the story and atmosphere is of course much different. you play as a couple of different Marins 
 during the game. each of them have different missions in different territories. the game also has 
 an interesting story with a couple of interesting twists. The graphics have Improved a lot compared 
 to COD 2 or 3. the campaign is however very short and can be easily finished within a weekend. after 
 the campaign is finished an Arcade Mode is also unlocked wich lets you play the different missions 
 in the game within a certain amount of time. i couldn't unfortunatly try the multiplayer but from 
 what i heard it is very promising if you are a fan of the Multiplayer modes in other Call of Duty 
 games. If you are only interested in the campaign i would suggest that you would rent the game since 
 the game is quite short.
  with all that said, Call Of Duty 4 : Modern Warfare is one of the best FPS games in the Year 2007 
 and you should definitly try the game if you are a fan of FPS games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: aspenmike
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 6, 2008 1:50 pm PT
Review:  Well it was a let down that you only got to play as the Marines for only 4 or 5 missions. The graphics 
 are great the gamplay is smooth. The story line could be better, and the acting was ok nothing 
 great. And what kind off nickname is Soap, they couldn't make me hate playing as SAS evenmore. 
 The only parts i liked in this game is the ones in the mid-east and the one sniping mission. The 
 multiplayer is great though. This games nothing new though. I like the gun texture specialy on 
 the Kimber Desert Warrior. I like the fact that bullets go through walls which is something I havent 
 seen since SWAT 3. This game is Great you should buy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zakld
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 6, 2008 12:18 pm PT
Review:  I don't like modern shooting games myself. I like the World War games or some other role play games, 
 but moden stuff just isn't my cup of tea. 
  
  However, after playing this game, I'm delighted with it.
  
  The graphics are absolutely superior. 
 You switch betwen roles, a soldier, sniper, etc. So, the game is very vercetile, so it is brilliant,
 
  
  On the other hand, the fact that you switch between roles and the fact that there isn't one general 
 goal just simple missions, makes you less attached to the game. In Medal of Honor Airborne for 
 instance, you get attached to the person you are playing with because ... well it's you, you get 
 used to it. Especially if you have a general goal that you are going towards, like beating the 
 German army. 
  
  Here, you just have sporadic missions that don; t make much sense. You're just a solider and you 
 have no idea how your missions will really create a better view. There is no one enemy, but loads 
 of small enemies in different countries. I guess that is the nature of moden warfare. The missions 
 are secret and you fight against small factions because the official war doesn; t really exist.
 
  
  That's not the developers fualt though, because they would have had to come up with a scenario 
 like the the chinese attacking america or europe or something in order to create something that 
 you can attach yourself to. Such a war hasn; t occured so some would have found it offensive or 
 weird, so Call of Duty 4 is extremely realistic and amazing fun. I absolutely love it, but because 
 of what I mentioned above and the fact that it is a bit short, I will not award it 10 but 9.5
 
  
  
  My marking system is as follows:
  
  10 - Absolute Legend
  9 - Must Be Played
  8 - Excellent and Worth Your Time
  7 - Worth playing if you have nothing else to play
  6 - 
 worh playing if you have nothing to play and are incredbly bored and have not got absolutely anything 
 else to do. (Barely playable/enjoyable) . 
  
  I don't give marks 1-5 as if a game starts sucking I don't finish it, so I only review the games 
 that are barely playable (6) to the absolutely amazingly incredible ones (10)
  
  I will also probably keep my reviews short as I don't like discovering too much about the gameplay. 
 I only like to give my quick opinion and get on with life.
  
  Best Wishes to everyone
  
  Zak 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: grall23
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 6, 2008 4:38 am PT
Review:  cod 4 really impressed me with its single player gameplay and i was amazed by the way the campaign 
 progressed. for example, you switched between british and us soldiers and in the end, both countries 
 teamed up to stop the missiles. although the missions are totally different, they are all aimed 
 at the same objective, to stop the missles and capture the ultranationalist leaders. the campaign 
 could have more quantity, but the quality was excellent. the multiplayer was immersive and many 
 of the different modes were interesting and could sustain your interest for some time.
  after completing the single player missions, it is always fun to go back and try to collect the 
 intel, so as to unlock the cheats. hence, this game has high replayability and i give it a 9/10. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Zaeryn
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 5, 2008 9:45 am PT
Review:  Call of Duty is such a fun game to play. Not only is the multiplayer addictive, but the singleplayer 
 is an amazing 6 hours or so. While the singleplayer is amazing, I think that the multiplayer is 
 the main attraction and most fun of the game. The ranks and the customization of your equipment 
 is quite different from the previous Call of Duty games, but it's a big step in the right direction. 
 The maps, graphics, sound, and just about everything is amazing with this game. 
  
  If you're into FPS's, just do yourself a favor and buy this game. There is no way in hell you will 
 be disappointed and have nothing but absolute fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: buthead21892
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 4, 2008 6:46 pm PT
Review:  Call of Duty 4 Modern Warfare has a very enjoyable single player campaign that you can enjoy excellent 
 graphics in but it is surprisingly short. This game has an even better multiplayer mode though. 
 I think you would get this game mainly for multiplayer. The multiplayer part is very addicting 
 and will keep you on for hours at a time. You advance to higher ranks the more kills you get and 
 other stuff like challenges and you will unlock weapons, scopes, and even more challenges by gaining 
 ranks. It is always full of players and very organized. For sure one of the best games ever made. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bdrgtech
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 4, 2008 1:52 pm PT
Review:  single player is pretty much a time killer with its pretty graphics and fast paced action overall 
 its not bad. If you want to play a single player fps play bioshock or crysis two great fps. Multiplayer 
 portion of COD4 is awesome. With the varity of unlocks and ranks on here make it an all around 
 great multiplayer game. If you want to rank up fast and unlock guns or items for your guns play 
 the free-for-all mode. ffa and tdm are my two favorite modes it's very fast paced to avoid being 
 sniped or knifed or blown to bits. you do have a couple of support options like calling jets to 
 bomb an area or calling in a helicopter to shoot everyone on the ground it sees. I like this game 
 for it's ability to stand out from the crowd of fps. When u get into the mutliplayer mode be warned 
 it can get highly addictive as you try to rank up. however u may get teed off a bit first time 
 around with the spawn campers. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gauravfox
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 3, 2008 11:25 pm PT
Review:  Call of Duty 4: Modern Warfare
  Call of Duty 4 is the 4th of its series... the third in the PC platform. First of all... to all the 
 guys who were involved in developing such a masterpiece at Activision and Infinity Ward.... great 
 job guys..... two thumbs up..! i gotta say.... i was never soo involved with a game like i was in 
 with CoD 4. the game portrays an excellent gameplay with outstanding graphics, physics and combat 
 situations. Its got to be the best FPS there ever is..! the sequel takes the player through 3 characters. The 
 sound and music is amazing and i am sure that a dude having a 5.1 surround sound is gonna have 
 a ride of his life ! The weapons and combat moves are quite realistic. the environment is the best 
 i have seen in any Game there is.... The campaigns around the city and especially Chernobyl is perfect. And 
 speakin about Chernobyl, after playin that stage i was curious about the place and did some research 
 in the internet. And to my amazement the areas the character traverses is same as the original place. The 
 apartments, the ferris wheel and the swimming pool right n front of the ferris wheel. when i saw 
 the actual photo of the swimming pool and the ferris wheel, it was exactly like in the game.... to 
 every detail..! and now isn't that awesome ? the dialogs spoken by the characters and truly amazing 
 and has that 'military' approach. The stage where we play the character of an operator of a missile 
 aircraft is astonishing ! i had seen those stuffs on TV and heard about it, but in CoD 4 i got 
 the feel of it..! wow..! now thats what i call a game that gets you in the head !
  
  well, the only drawback of Call of Duty 4 is its gameplay... its too short ! i actually finished 
 it in about, say 6 hours in the 'regular' difficulty... But over all i gotta say, its the Best in 
 the series when taking the graphics and performance into account !
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: pet3rrr
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 3, 2008 9:21 pm PT
Review:  Being a first-person shooter fan since the early alpha release of Counter-Strike back in the 90's, 
 Call of Duty 4 was able to give me my fix. Even if the story is nothing new, the gameplay grips 
 your nuts, and you can't leave your seat. 
  
  The story isn't really new. It has been done, but Activision and Infinity Ward was able to create 
 unbelievably fun gameplay around this typical story. So it's not the story that engages you (Like 
 Kane and Lynch does for me) , but the gameplay really sucks in you in. My favorite mission is when 
 you play as Captain Price in the sniper mission. That was quite epic, and I kept replaying that 
 same mission a few times. It's great fun. 
  
  The graphics are superb. I had bought Call of Duty 4 the same day my GeForce 8800GT 512MB had arrived, 
 and instinctively, I cranked up the settings. The smoke, the rundown buildings, the characters, 
 the explosions, the debris, oh man, oh man. :Shivers: It's not up to par with Crysis, but they 
 are still great. But hey, at least the game delivers, unlike Crysis. 
  
  There isn't much dialogue that deserves an honorable mention, but the sound effects do deserve 
 an award. From the yells of your fellow team mates, to the numerous amounts of explosions from 
 the Godly sh*t load of grenades thrown at you, you'll be glad that surround sound exists. Most 
 of the time, you'll hear something, since there is so much going on. 
  
  Speaking of 'so much going on', the multiplayer is extremely fun. The ranking system is quite different, 
 and mainly, you gain experience, BUT, you gain perks and new weapons. It is loads of fun. There 
 are plenty of fun gametype modes, and myriad amounts of low-ping servers, so Call of Duty 4 multiplayer 
 will not disappoint you. 
  
  One issue I have with the game is lack of co-op support. But hey, don't let that stop you from 
 picking up this immersive and loads-of-fun game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: blackspycool
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 3, 2008 5:39 pm PT
Review:  I gave this game a 10 because deep and engaging game play, great graphics and this really is nothing 
 bad about it really. My favorite part of this game is the multiplayer because you can use so much 
 stealth and strategies that make you friend never leave. The solo player was ok. The online should 
 have had more maps but I can deal with that. It is like a cousin. I am declaring this game to be 
 a must have. This is an addicting game to me. I would love if anybody gave me any games to review 
 but it may be a few days before I review it. I will do my best effort to review it. Thanks. 
  
  --Zach Binkley
  
  
  
  Copyright 2008 All Rights Reserved
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: snake22
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 3, 2008 12:49 pm PT
Review:  I cant say enough about the single player experience of COD4. It drew me in emotionaly only to 
 take those emotions and throw them around at will.
  
  Visualy the game is stunning and the variations in missions keeps this game progressing quite nicely. 
 Once you start you dont want to stop.
  
  The multiplayer action is equally outstanding as well. Many different game modes and XP gains to 
 unlock challenges, weapon mods, weapons, and perks. These "carrot" on a stick additions gives you 
 a reason aside from well designed maps to keep staring at that load bar.
  
  I havent played a FPS this good since old Medal of Honor games and this one surpases the old ones 
 in every way.... I dont even load up Airborne any more.
  
  If you are on the fence about getting COD 4, jump over and start playing... yo wont regret it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GriffinLord602
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 3, 2008 8:58 am PT
Review:  Call of Duty 4: Modern Warfare was a game i didn't keep my eye on until friends, family etc. decided 
 to buy it, and give it a go. 
  At first i thought this game would be good, but overated and i thought, "naaah, better not get 
 it, could be a waste of money" But I was wrong, more wrong than I thought i would be.
  With an explosive but short campaign, and an incredible multiplayer that gets you hooked almost 
 instantly, escpecially if your a fan of the series or of online shooters. There are a huge range 
 of weapons and add ons to be selected, and the create a class option for online multiplayer is 
 a treat, and gives you goals and challenges to aim for and improve, so your status is recognised 
 among the other players. And such things as perks can be unlocked (perks are the abilities you 
 select for your custom class) that really can change the way you play, and the strategy you use 
 to overcome your opponents. Also there are the usual types of matches, but there is a mode called 
 hardcore that you can impliment into these types, which, even though you dont use the cross fire 
 often in these games (its normally aim and shoot with your scopes) it gets rid of that, increases 
 bullet damage given and taken, and minimap is disguarded for all players. This mode makes it more 
 intense, and not recommended for people who arent used to playing this type of game. One more thing, 
 you can use your killing streaks as a weapon, as when you gain 3 kills, you have access to a UAV 
 (reveals enemies on map) to aid your allies, and if you gain another 2 kill, then youl have access 
 to an air strike, with your choice of location, and if combined with a UAV it could do devastating 
 damage to the enemy.
  Thats all I can really say thats worth saying about the online, but its such a unique feeling, 
 compared to most other shooters which gives it such high prestige. And the campaign is incredible, 
 but like I said, its very short, the average player could probably complete withing 6-8 hours, 
 so the campaign gives it some points, but it didn't make "much" of a difference to me because I 
 prefer to play the online multiplayer to the shooters I buy. But I can assure you that the campaign 
 is of high standard.
  On the graphics side of things, everything is crisp and if it were real "eye candy" then I advise 
 not to give it to the little kids around the place, cause they'd probably get hyper. ha!. But seriously, 
 everything is top knotch, and you would probably need a faster CPU than an expensive graphics card. 
 But obviously, it does imrpove the experience if you have both :D.
  The Infinity Ward team really did pull this off good and propper, the visuals are amazing, atomosphere 
 of battle can really be felt as your wipping through the campaign or shooting lead into some enemies, 
 and the depth of the multiplayer is extremely high, and I could see that they wanted the experience 
 to improve for players as they played on it more and more.
  The searching of servers can be awquard, seems there's no search server option, but that's nit 
 picking.
  So with the problem of the short campaign, awquard server searching online (though it does sound 
 small, it can be pretty annoying, depending on tolerance level :D) ... I give this game 9.0!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: hotplayer220
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 2, 2008 10:10 pm PT
Review:  I was a bit skeptical of this game at first after the no show of a PC port for Call of Duty 3. 
 PC gamers were left hanging with Call of Duty 2, a very new direction from the highly successful 
 Call of Duty United Offensive. Call of Duty 2 came as almost a disappointment to the Call of Duty 
 population in many realms. The lack of the rank system, the lack of vehicles, and what not detterd 
 many players.
  
  Call of Duty 4 does answer back in many respects.
  
  Single Player highlights:
  - Play from two perspectives of the friendly side was nice.
  - Very 
 Unique and smart incorporation of cinematics throughout the game
  - Very open to different styles of play
  - Length was a bit disappointing
  - Great story line
 
  - Good AI for varying levels
  - Graphically impressive
  - Good dialogue
  - Great Soundtrack
  - Great Ending
  - True to the Call of Duty Feeling
  
  Multiplayer:
 
  - Wide arsenal of weapons
  - Good selection of maps
  - Upgrade system allows for some limited personalization of weapons
  - Perks system is ok. Some 
 perks are plausible others are not and do almost negate the game.
  - Good Physics in some senses (not every one though)
  - Good game lobby
  - Challenges system 
 keeps the replay value of this game very high
  - Different classes cater to everyones style.
  - Rank system also keep the replay value extremely 
 high.
  - Hardcore mode serves more expert players.
  
  Disappointments:
  - Weapon physics and attributes can be inconsistant (i. e. sniping better with a sub machine gun 
 compared to a sniper rifle) . This is patchable and shouldnt be a major concern. It can be very 
 frustrating though when weak wepons are more effective than a much stronger one in a fair and even 
 unfair situation.
  
  - Online play doesnt really reward tactical play. Noobs are regaularly rewarded for nade spamming, 
 noobtubing, wall spamming, and spray and pray. It takes a lot of planned tac in this game to be 
 effective.
  
  - Awkward bugs: Infinitary Ward is working to eliminate any exploits. Not a major concern as these 
 exploits are rare.
  
  - Punkbuster is extremely slow and ineffective. PB kicks more people for connection problems than 
 it does actual hackers. This is not a problem of CoD4 and is only attributed to Punkbuster and 
 hackers.
  
  Overall:
  
  After Call of Duty 2 this is a great improvement. Alot of nice features, and great graphics have 
 been worked into the game to excite the experience. Although this game doest reach the glory of 
 Call of Duty: United Offensive, it does get the nod for definately being added to your game Collection.
 
  
  Happy Gaming! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Fable_fan88
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 2, 2008 9:05 pm PT
Review:  The campaign is short... but it was intense. The online play is prolly the... i mean IS the best 
 part of the game, I like how u can level up ur guns and earn equipment. Great little mini challenges. 
 If you Like Halo your going to love this game. I uses to play halo everytime i got on my xbox 360, 
 no i never take call of duty out of the driver! its worth the $60. but don't get it if u don't 
 have xbox live... cause then ur wasting u money in a like 4 hr long campaign... which is ok... but 
 not worth $60. Great Graphics, great Game play... now if they just don't respawn me right on a bomb 
 next time on xbox live i will be fine. If you ify on this game, go rent it, play it, and i bet 
 you that u will either buy the game or really want to but this game. they did a great piece of 
 work here. controls or ez after awhile, but once u play u will only set it down when u have to 
 either eat or sleep, yeah u will still play it while ur using the bathroom. I give it a 10 star 
 approval. Best game of 2007, even beating halo... but barely. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DeskLazer
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 2, 2008 3:29 pm PT
Review:  I was totally skeptical about CoD4. I somewhat enjoyed the previous CoD games, and I was ok with 
 other shooters in the genre such as battlefield, moh, etc. but when they decided to go the modern 
 warfare route, I said 'great, something about arab people trying to kill americans again' but I 
 was wrong. it's a really deep and wonderful storyline, although I wish the game was just a few 
 more hours! I haven't bought a game in a long time, but this one is totally worth it.
  
  besides that, the multiplayer is pretty bangin' too. I wish I could have an xbox360 to play this 
 on instead, but the pc version is still fantastic looking [just wish I had dual SLI to run it at 
 the highest res at the highest details and AA/AF] . regardless, it looks gorgeous, and this is a 
 game you want to show off to your friends [crysis would be the one, but for those of you that don't 
 have 2 512 MB videocards, this is the one that'll showcase your computer quite nicely] .
  
  there are some amazing missions, fantastic voice acting, and even some humour. make sure you guys 
 *SPOILER* play the secret mission at the end. great reference to the movie airplane!
  
  note: you WILL finish this game in probably less than 5 hours, which is the only thing that kept 
 it from being an absolutely perfect shooter. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ThornFalconeye
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 2, 2008 12:06 pm PT
Review:  I had heard as much about this game as I have heard about crysis, and hoped that i was picking 
 up a game with experiences close to the first call of duty (with the epic expansion pack) . Though 
 it does not dissapoint with so many fun weapons, and sports the best story by far for COD: I found 
 myself bored with the single player after just one run. The harder difficulties are not as much 
 fun as they are frusturating, as the only real difference between hard and very hard is the fact 
 that the soldiers aim a little more, and because practically everyone has the AK, which is a one 
 hit kill on your enemies, and a three hit kill on you, you will die often. So often, that on the 
 sniper extraction level, I spent around 4 frusturating hours trying to cower enough in the corners 
 to finally win because of an AI bug. The thing with this COD is that the hiding and peeking combat 
 is not as enjoyable because you can shoot through walls. The enemies, who always outnumber you, 
 will regularly kill you through walls, floors, celings , boxes, anything. Because they get line 
 of sight from their friends, and suddenly all avanced cover is no longer cover. This degrades the 
 combat to hiding behind the first wall you come to, and sniping people from afar, hoping that a 
 stray RPG will not hit you. The cinematics and graphics are excellent, though the 3D sound does 
 not come to par with the COD 2 sound for some reason. 
  
  Multiplayer is fun, but COD has always been about the dynamite campaign, which this time seems 
 very lack luster due to the fact that everyone in the game gets automatic weapons, and use them 
 to cut you apart even when you hide. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: brycechua8
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 1, 2008 10:59 pm PT
Review:  As my review is only based on single player mode, please do not take into account multiplayer mode.
 
  
  CoD 4's story is rather predictable, but it's the small parts that make up the whole, and it's 
 precisely those small parts that make the game so fun. This game alternates between 2 characters 
 , each from the SAS and USMC respectively. As you play each character, the story unveils itself, 
 but it does get a little confusing at times. 
  
  If you fancy a challenge pick hard mode, it really made me frustrated, especially the sniper mission 
 when you have to wait for heli pick up. As the stages are pretty easy to navigate, you can follow 
 your teammates around, you don't have to explore around, but simply just concentrate on killing 
 the enemies. Whether this is a good or bad thing is up to the individual. 
  
  But variety in the game play stems from the fact that you can engage enemies using different methods, 
 such as throwing a smoke grenade for cover or sniping them from a distance while your teammates 
 cover you. One cool feature is that you get to play different roles in this game, like a heli gunner, 
 or a covert ops sniper.
  
  But CoD 4's missions were too few, however the intense action in each mission made it feel worthwhile 
 playing. During key moments of the game, the BGM and music makes the game feel more like you are 
 watching a movie rather than playing a game, the only difference been that if you die the game 
 reloads.
  
  All in all, CoD 4 is a great game with alot of effort put into it's game play. Definitely a game 
 to try. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: M1ndux
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 1, 2008 8:26 pm PT
Review:  Forget the bolt-action rifles and the other old weapons and move up to the 21st century. CoD4 (Call 
 of Duty for those who don't know) does exactly that. Everything is quick. The game is really awesome, 
 with the graphics at high levels and interesting single-player missions. Although the single-player 
 mode is extremelly short, the multiplayer mode will keep you playing the game for a long time! 
 Of course, once you reach lvl 55, which is the top lvl in multi mode, the game will loose some 
 of its interest but you still will have many chalanges to finish to unlock special "mods" for weapons, 
 like the gold d. eagle or the golden AK-47. The gameplay is extremelly fluid and quick, unlike 
 the previous series, vCoD and CoD2. The action is cemingly faster and requires more effort. No 
 more camping at the same spot and leaning out. No. This doubles your chance of getting killed! 
 As you advance in levels, you open new types of perks and weapons to help you fight the enemy. 
 Also, completing challanges for every weapon will unlock additions that will also assist you in 
 your murderous rampage. Forget WWII and move up to today's standarts! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: marcohSS
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 1, 2008 5:19 pm PT
Review:  When I first heard the next Call of Duty game for the PC was going to be set in the modern era, 
 I was afraid I wasn't going to like it. Other modern era shooters like Black Hawk Down, or Rainbow 
 Six Las Vegas were decent enough, but I didn't get the enjoyment out of them that I did the Medal 
 of Honor and Call of Duty series that were set in WWII. As it has before, the Call of Duty series 
 surprised me. In a year of so many quality games being released at the same time, Call of Duty 
 4 is one of the best games I've played.
  When it first came out, the Call of Duty games annoyed me because of their disjointed nature. Like 
 a Tarantino movie, they tended to jump around, between several characters, in different theaters 
 of war and different armies. I also didn't like the Russian campaigns because the idea of people 
 behind me with guns forcing me to march into people in front of me with guns bothered me. Nevertheless, 
 despite the disjointed stories, and the resulting less immersion in character, the Call of Duty 
 games preceding Call of Duty 4 produced some of the most enjoyable, and memorable sequences to 
 be savored as a player. Sheer quality of game play, level design, and voice acting made it a favorite 
 series even though the presentation of the story took away from the final product.
  I'm happy to say that all of these concerns were addressed in Call of Duty 4. This game is well 
 written, well acted, with a story, and pace that will leave you unable to put it down. There are 
 also several sequences that will stay with you and depending on your level of immersion in the 
 story, effect you emotionally. It's that good.
  If you follow current events at all, you will recognize some elements of the plot are not all that 
 far from the realm of possibility in the real world. One of the opening sequences depicts the removal 
 from office of a moderate middle eastern leader by a radical. It's not for the faint of heart. 
 It also starts the sequence of events that defines the rest of the game. Some players may question 
 the absence of religion in the middle eastern part of the game. When speaking of the deposed president, 
 they disparage his ties to the west. I was waiting for the religous condemnation but it never came. 
 It's just as well. It would only be a distraction and could aggravate people who get offended easily. 
 The only reason I expected it was because of how well they depicted everything else.
  To their credit, Infinity scaled down the playable characters to two, a US marine, and a British 
 SAS commando. Unlike the WWII games, where the soldiers were pieces on the board of a bigger battle, 
 these two are very important to the overall plot and approach the story from two different directions.
 
  Gameplay is fairly standard shooter fare; you are able to call in airstrikes to help you, and 
 your squad is fairly competent in helping you deal with enemies. Although there are times where 
 it feels like every single stinking bad guy is shooting at you no matter how well hidden you are. 
 There are also many different weapons to play with, although I always felt vaguely guilty, as a 
 British commando, with picking up a mini uzi and going room to room. It was good fun though.
  I won't speak to the multi player as I have never played it. 
  If you play 1st person shooters, 
 I strongly encourage you to try this one. For those that enjoy the run and gun, it's there on multiple 
 difficulty levels. For those who enjoyed Bioshock, who crave a story with their action, a bit of 
 peanut butter to go with your chocolate, this game will do it for you. Even though your squadmates 
 aren't formally introduced to you, they will grow on you, and as the story progresses, you will 
 find things happening to them, and you, that will make this game hit home. One of the best I've 
 played. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DulcianuAlex
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 1, 2008 4:53 pm PT
Review:  This game pissed me off in the first 2 or 3 months when Activision was making those horrible Putin 
 and Hitler comercials. I wasn't expecting anything from this game, because usualy when the hype 
 sorrounding the game grows too much the expectings rise up, up, then crash loudly on the ground 
 making a huge hole. I haven't played it when it was released, but after like 1-2 months. And, what 
 can I say. It's probably the best war-like-shooting game of the year 2007. Why? Let's see...
  
  The background story is kinda lame, I mean arabian people and terrorists... the old American 
 anti-tero propaganda really pisses me off. But the plot isn't that important when going to war. 
 Not everyone knows why and for what they're fighting and killing right? Right. On the other hand, 
 the gameplay really matters. In my opinion, the gameplay has to be the core of the game, followed 
 by the story, graphics, etc. In CoD 4 the gameplay manages to provide a nice gaming experience, 
 but it's still kinda repetitive. Even though the missions and the objectives are pretty different 
 from each other, some kind of routine comes in after the first 1-2 hours of playing. 
  
  The feeling is great, the graphics helps at the creation of a great atmosphere, but still something 
 is missing. That something could be a longer campaign, better balancing, and some vehicles. I mean 
 what kind of war is that if you can't drive a Tank of at least a Jeep? And the objectives, even 
 if i said they're quite different, they're actualy not that different. Most of them resume to "destroy 
 that big thing" or "kill those many guys". Of course, these things are masked by some great level 
 designs and great feeling which doesn't allow you to observe this thing and keeps you playing it 
 like a freak. And that's good, that's all gaming's about. 
  
  As for the AI, at first I said: at last, a non-retarded AI! But then i've realized it's not that 
 cool. The enemies do the same things they do in the whole Call of Duty series: hide, run from grenades 
 and... hide again. Well at least they do hide and they don't come straightly at you with the gun 
 firing in the sky and yelling "I got one, I got one!". And the allied-AI now. This one actualy 
 got better. The team is really helping you and they're not just some stupid **** following you 
 like some dogs waiting for food. The only bad thing is that NPCs like Captain Price and Gaz are 
 invincible and they can stand right in front of an incoming tank missile, get it right into their 
 faces and then easily get up and yell at you "ENEMY ARR PEE GEE".
  
  The other chapters of the game, like the graphics and the sounds are pretty cool. The graphics 
 are ok, nice levels with nice effects and some great face modelling. The sound is again, great. 
 Kabooms, voice actings and the flying bullets are chosen perfectly. The controls are the usual 
 ones, no consolish problems or other things. 
  
  Overall, Call of Duty 4 - Modern Warfare is a good game. Not that good, and not that bad. It's 
 OK. Maybe if the plot was more complex and the missions less boring, the game would have been better 
 than Bioshock or Crysis. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nasty_butler_9
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 1, 2008 3:22 pm PT
Review:  A visual feast for the eyes and an incredible story, perhaps cut short, but defiantly makes up 
 for it in the amazing online play. Right out of the box comes, in my opinion, game of the year. 
 A must buy for all FPS fans.
  
  Oh, and yes, it's better than Halo.
  
  This game is always having you do something new, whether it's blasting tanks with a helicopter 
 turret, mowing down infantry with massive machine guns, and even crawling under trucks through 
 enemy territory.
  
  Simply amazing and the best game you can pick up at the moment for PS3, or Xbox, whatever it is, 
 you just won't be putting this game down, it's replay value is amazing with online play that will 
 make you break out the Red Bull and play all night.
  
  The best game I've played in a long time and I defiantly recommend it to any PS3 or Xbox owner. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sagri7
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 1, 2008 2:26 pm PT
Review:  Pros:
  
  Amazing story,
  Amazing graphics,
  Great AI,
  Very amazing sounds,
  Life like models,
  Very imaginative multiplayer.
  
  Cons:
  
  Campaign is a little short
 
  
  The next CoD is finally here, and it was really worth the wait. You can really start to respect 
 how much time and effort Infinity Ward went into to make this game, its just stunning.
  
  The graphics are amazing, considering you have a high spec to take advantage of them, you will 
 fall in love with the settings. The models of weapons are exactly photo realistic to every little 
 detail. The world models, of the vehicles are also exactly the same as their real life counterparts.
 
  
  The story, unlike the previous Call of Duty's is not WW2 related more modern day related. This 
 allows a lot more flexibility with story line, and they used this very well. The story draws you 
 in straight away and keeps you hooked all the way to the very amzing finale.
  
  The AI is also very well thought out. More so than the previous games, enemies will gang up on 
 you if you are by yourself. They will use grenades and they actually hit you. And you can throw 
 them back finally!
  
  The multiplayer of the game is also very interesting, it follows the style of Battlefield 2142, 
 you can edit your class with different weapons and attachments for your weapons. And you award 
 yourself with killing streaks, 3 is a UAV 5 is an airstrike and 7 is helicopter, which i find very 
 cool.
  
  Yes the campaign is very short but they pack so much into the campaign. Both parts of the campaign 
 end on a spectacular scene, i wont ruin it, but they are amazing.
  
  All in all, this game is simply amazing. It will definately go down in history as one of the best 
 games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MasterP771
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 31, 2007 5:58 pm PT
Review:  Call of Duty 4 surpasses its predecessors (Call of Duty, Call of Duty: United Offensive, Call of 
 Duty 2) as a fast-paced modern warfare shooter. With an intensely fictional Single Player campaign, 
 players will be amazed with Infinity Ward's ingenuity in creating a "24" style storyline with events 
 leading up to the grand finale. Although the Single Player portion of the game is concise and short-lived, 
 players wanting more action can enter battles online in intense close-quarters fighting using fully 
 customizable weapons that contain numerous features including different skins, scope attachments, 
 etc. along with perks that increase reloading times, health, bullet damage, and penetration. Infinity 
 Ward also keeps the game updated with patches that improve game play. The downside to the game 
 is that it can become difficult to play 16-player sized maps with 20-40 people. The game has a 
 lot of console-based qualities that detract from its entire meaning, especially in the PC version 
 of the game. Gamers may also tire from the small sized maps where there is little or no room for 
 players to hide or take cover, especially with annoying perks such as martyrdom (a perk that enables 
 a player to drop a live grenade when he or she dies) . Still, Call of Duty 4 surpasses any game 
 in terms of graphics and intense game play. Although not perfect and certainly not a "Battlefield" 
 with big maps, Infinity Ward has outdone themselves creating a game that has become a classic. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: joewoodbury
Rating: 4
Date: Jan 1, 2008 1:33 am PT
Review:  Call of Duty 4 is a game that looks great and has moments of brilliance -- moments that show you 
 what the game could have been -- but in the end is an annoying, frustrating mess.
  
  Above all it violates three rules of modern games, four if you add having fun. First, you are only 
 able to save at save points. Second, enemies continuously respawn unless you kill just the right 
 combination. There is rarely any indication what that combination actually is. Third, you cannot 
 reduce the difficulty level mid-game. This is important to retain the fun factor if you get stuck 
 on a level.
  
  I am genuinely baffled as to why the designers chose to violate these rules; computer games have 
 been following them successfully for years. Given the non-skippable cut scenes, especially for 
 the opening credits, I think they were a bit full of themselves.
  
  Reviewers have praised the AI for your companions. I don't know what their talking about -- it's 
 horrible. I can't count the times I've died because my allies got in my way, did something stupid 
 or simply didn't help at all. (The funniest moments, though quite annoying, were when I bounced 
 grenades off their heads because they ran in front of me.)
  
  I was hoping for a FPS with tactical elements; all too often I found it was just a frag fest and 
 I had to just rush in, all guns blazing. (Ironically, more than once this ended a sequence almost 
 instantly -- it was truly bizarre.)
  
  Call of Duty 4 is one of the most disappointing games I've ever played. While playing, I often 
 shook my head at the lost opportunity. In many ways it was better than Call of Duty 1 and 2-- it 
 didn't feel quite as scripted -- but it lacked the fun factor, especially of Call of Duty 1. Needless 
 to say, I'll be auctioning this game on eBay as soon as my kids finish playing it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ChrisCheezer
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 31, 2007 3:29 am PT
Review:  I'll keep this short and sweet.
  game play is perfect , and graphics are amazing.
  
  This game has to be a land mark for all FPS from now on. The single player is great, very interactive 
 and mixes it up. some missions were not only challenging but very different and Fun as hell. more 
 FPS must be like this. the missions kept changing along with characters and story lines, but it 
 was very accepting and good plain FUN
  
  the multi is well balanced and has a one great game mode that stands out . The "headquarters" maps. 
 this seems to be the best, well thought out, easy to handle and challenging. forces the use of 
 team work and using a slight rpg like effect when it comes to "building ur ranks" makes the player 
 have a reason to WIN and do well.
  
  the game is overall perfect a must buy, the only down side i can think of.. is power demanding. 
 a high performance computer is needed to enjoy this game. buy who doesnt have an up to date vid. 
 card and a bunch of ram? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GARIOT
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 30, 2007 10:18 am PT
Review:  Well, having played the demo, I decided that great though it was, it wasn't worth coughing up top 
 dollar for whilst I was still having so much fun online with CoD2.
  
  Well, Activision (or whoever) ; I apologise. I cheated you out of 15. CoD4 is worth every penny. 
 Not only does it make CoD2 seem dated and (dare I say it?) slightly less fun - the campaign is 
 just excellent. It even has a main character 'borrowed' from the Rainbow Six franchise and dialogue 
 nicked from 'Aliens'. What more do you need?
  
  In a year where many excellent games have been released - and in the same genre - I'm not surprised 
 that CoD4 is doing as well as it is. It's worthy of the praise heaped on it - mainly because it 
 gives you exactly what you want. It didn't re-invent the wheel, but it sure as hell put some cool 
 alloys on it.
  
  Question is; what will CoD5 have to do to top it? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dawnoflife3
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 30, 2007 7:33 am PT
Review:  call of duty 4: modern warfare-this has to be probably the best first person shooter i have ever 
 played. i would have rated this game 10/10 if only its single player caimpaign mode was a bit longer. the 
 best thing in the game is its multiplayer. in multiplayer i reached the highest level (lvl 55) in 
 5 days. thats how addicting the game gets. the graphics are great and the sounds are amazing. the 
 game feels as if you are really in a middle of a battle field. its quite amazing really. the single 
 player is short but it is very intresting, tough, and fun. i was ss actually suprised this didnt get 
 the game of the year award. i have never palyed any of the call of duty game ,this was my first 
 1 but now i regret it since this is so good. i would recomend this game to all shooter fans and 
 even players eho dont like shooters. i really hope the y make another call of duty game. i personally 
 think this is better than halo or crysis .i rather shoot bullets rather than lasers and kill humans 
 rather than monster.1 of the most intresting things is the pers where u get to customize ur player. ou 
 also hav a wide variety of guns to cose from. from assault rifles to shotguns and even snipers.1 
 thing bad about this is that u dont hav anything to play fpr after u reached the highest level. but 
 i think every body should buy this game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GunnyNoland
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 29, 2007 10:39 pm PT
Review:  OMG this is a awesome FPS if you dont think so then quit reading you just cannot doubt me on this 
 one the SP is short but this game was built for MP not the SP you will be amazed by how many hacker 
 are on MP but their one weakness is stealth if you no how to hide and pick off people with a sniper 
 you will have a M95 Barrett in no time! Just watch out for aimbot hackers they will be aiming in 
 the air and he will kill you just pick him off with a sniper. Snipers are they key to the game. 
 this is a awesome game this game is one of the greatest shooters of all time you must trust me 
 i promise this game is awesome i absolutely swear if you doubt me rent it, its avalible for almost 
 every console. so if you tried it and think it is ambysal then get the heck away from it quit gettin 
 other people to not like just sell the game and forget about it ok.. so it is a good game all in 
 all 1000/1000 it is one of the best games ever made so trust me on this so try it give it a try 
 so get to it rent it try buy it it sells nearly every where so trust me on this dont listen to 
 ambysal people i have written many reviews and alwasys say the same: Try the game and its a good 
 game if you look in all my review it will say that so try the game dont listen to people who hate 
 this game.... it has some blood but still try it 9 out of 10 people will say to try it so this 
 game has great MP if you like ranking up well this is a game for you you start from a private to 
 be a proud general. Will you assume victory or will you rot in a hole with your other dead members 
 so try this game trust  
::::::

::::::
UserName: FatPipe
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 29, 2007 8:39 pm PT
Review:  Went into this game thinking it was just going to be more of the same. Much to my surprise I found 
 some very original and new concepts for the genre.
  
  
  Game of the year.... enough said. Not only were the graphics spectacular, and the physics spot on, 
 but the game was flawless and didnt crash for me one time. This was a perfect example of a company 
 that took their time putting out a top notch game that didnt contain a slew of bugs as most do 
 today.
  
  The only bad thing I can say about this is I want more! Every time I played a level I was dissapointed 
 to know that it was over. The "Death from above" level was so GD fun that I could see an entire 
 spin off game just with that theme in mind.
  
  Bottom line is that this game has raised the stakes for this genre and just when I just about had 
 enough of FPS, COD4 brought the thrill back to where it should be. 
  
  Although I cant rate it on Gamespot, I give this game a 9.75 because it was just to short to give 
 a perfect 10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JaggedEdge2KX
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 29, 2007 8:00 pm PT
Review:  This review is coming from someone who hasn't played Call of Duty 1 through 3. I'll start with 
 the Single player mode.
  
  The single player mode is solid but like many gamers out there have said before, the game is too 
 short which is pretty much the only down side to Call of Duty 4. The story line is good but I'm 
 sure they could have got more missions into the game.
  
  The multi player mode is the best. I like the rank system with the challenges to complete. I like 
 games which gives me goals to complete.
  
  The graphics is the best I've seen so far in 2007 as well. The game is great to look at but with 
 the graphics you will need a great computer to handle the game.
  
  I recommend this game to everyone if you are a FPS fan or not. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sgthalka
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 18, 2008 8:59 am PT
Review:  If Crysis is the thinking-man's shooter and Bioshock is the story-driven shooter, Call of Duty 
 4 is the the most pure  shooter I've seen in 
 a long time. We've seen some excellent FPS titles this year, but nothing really approaches the 
 intensity and energy each level of CoD 4 shows off in its single-player campaign. This is a game 
 that moves briskly, will push you and often drag you through incredibly intense combat that you 
 really just need to navigate. You can't manage it like in Crysis. It really pushes your reflexes 
 more than any other shooter I've seen in recent memory.
  
  It's also a beautiful game, full with rich environments. While the level designs aren't necessarily 
 interactive to the degree set in Crysis or Bioshock, the creative and realistic layouts will draw 
 you into the game world and make you excited to push through to the next huge set piece. This and 
 Half-Life 2: Episode Two are some of the finest level design I've ever seen in a shooter yet.
 
  
  While the single-player is notoriously short (like expansion-pack short) , there's zero fluff here 
 and that's something to be thankful for. It's a complete joy ride from start to finish. The storyline 
 will actually get you pumped to kill these villains, and I was genuinely impressed by how dramatic 
 some key sequences are played out for maximum emotional impact.
  
  While there's little replay value in single-player, the well-fleshed out multiplayer will keep 
 you busy for eons. If you're into multiplayer, that is. The problem is, I'm not a big multiplayer 
 fan ... so for the 3 other people out there like me who are more into deep single-player FPS instead 
 of online shootouts, games like Bioshock, Half-Life 2 and S. T. A. L. K. E. R. are much better recommendations.
 
  
  Overall a fantastic package and easily one of the most impressive games of 2007. It's just over 
 before you know it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rottenjoe
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 29, 2007 9:18 am PT
Review:  After long wait and anticipation, all the hype and previews have been heard and read, noticed and 
 memorized, one of the greatest in the series, activison and infinity ward really pushed this game 
 past its world war 2 counterparts. Call of duty 4, a game that pushes the graphics of todays generation 
 of gaming systems to the next level. Compelling and suspenseful single player campaign to the massive 
 online multiplayer this game brings it self to the top of the ranks in gaming. Loved this game 
 from start to end and still play it today. With the return and fall of captain price and the "on 
 the end of your seat" action you will not want to stop.
  On the other hand the single player campaign is short, for some people, covers a lot of ground 
 but it looks like most of the single player campaign was made only for the hardcore gamer. Some 
 of the softcore gamers and the new to First person shooter gamers may not wanna pick this game 
 up. Besides that the fast paced multiplayer and the heart pounding gameplay is what makes this 
 game one of the best. And nothing will change that, until call of duty 5 of coarse. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DasFlesh
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 29, 2007 1:00 am PT
Review:  Call of Duty 4 is not only the best in the series expanding on its wonderful base with 1 and 2, 
 (3 doesn't count due to its different developer and failure to be anything new) but it is a game 
 that is just very good on its own.
  The two aspects to look at are the Single Player and the Multiplayer.
  
  The single player 
 for this game is one of the best out there in terms of storyline. It may be shorter then what you're 
 used to, but the events are unexpected and the divergences from classical kill everyone and get 
 to the map point, meaning missions like the sniper mission where you sneak around instead of kill 
 everything, are so fresh for a first person shooter. This game couls be worth it just to check 
 this part out.
  
  The multiplayer on the other hand is the major drawing point for any fps now-a-days. And in this 
 respect, COD4 is a must have. Its based on old cod modes and game play but it adds a bunch more 
 with perks and rank. This is only one of the only games where every single map online is worth 
 a look. None of the maps, even the ship one, are total wastes of time. 
  
  When you put this all together and throw in the fact that the game looks amazing and is much less 
 taxing then a game like crysis, this is a sure shot for a must have and it should be the best choice 
 for anyones game of the year.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: dgsag
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 28, 2007 7:06 pm PT
Review:  Well, ladies and gentlemen. It's here, Call of Duty 4 has been released. But, is the series' first 
 huge shift in terms of setting and gameplay all its cracked up to be?
  
  As always, Call of Duty 4's campaign is gaming's equivalent of an amusement park thrill-ride. Taking 
 place in a fictional, near-future conflict, COD4's campaign offers a story involving stolen nuclear 
 warheads and middle-eastern conflicts that could have been ripped straight out of today's newspaper 
 headlines. The game follows the doings of two characters residing in different military branches, 
 namely the British SAS special ops unit, and the United States Marine Corps Force Recon unit. The 
 campaign often switches perspectives between the two units in order to advance the story in a coherent 
 manner. The differences between the two characters and branches are more than just cosmetic, as 
 the SAS missions are characterized by small unit gameplay, stealth, and often take place in different 
 areas in Russia. The USMC missions involve a full-scale assault on a Middle-Eastern country, attempting 
 to quell a rebel-funded revolution there, and as such, they often consist of huge battles with 
 dozens of combatants duking it out. The gameplay, while taking place in a completely different 
 time period as opposed to the WW2 setting the COD series is famous for, retains the Call of Duty 
 feel. You are allowed to only carry a limited number of weapons, and you are encouraged to look 
 down the sights to hit enemies. There are certain sequences where you are put in a vehicle and 
 forced to defend convoys and the such from enemy attacks. One stand-out level puts you in the weapons 
 station of an AC-130 gunship, and lets you rain death on enemy positions with the help of infared 
 optics. Its a very eerie level, communicating the power and anonymity of modern battlefield weapons 
 and technology. The campaign features an impressive assortment of stand-out moments, and often 
 has the feeling of a fast-moving, well-written TV series, such as 24.
  
  Unfortunately, just like an amusement park ride, the campaign is over way faster than expected. 
 On the game's Normal difficulty, pro players can often finish in under four hours. The Veteran 
 mode takes longer, but artificially increases the game's difficulty by increasing enemy accuracy 
 to robotic proportions and reducing your own character's health to almost nothing. The game also 
 suffers from a problem inherent in the Call of Duty series since the beginning, and that's the 
 infinitely-spawning enemies found at some points in the campaign. You often find yourself pinned 
 down in front of a building with your teammates, and no matter how many times you snipe enemies 
 in the window, there are always more to take their place. The only way to stop this is to advance 
 close to the building, which stops the respawning and allows you to clear out the guys left in 
 the house. The campaign is very linear, and its very rare for one playthrough to radically differ 
 in approach from another. After you play it once or twice, you'll never pick up the campaign again.
 
  
  Sound design is mind-blowing, from the grass rustling as you stealthily make your way to assassinate 
 a target, to the deafening sounds of a nuclear explosion wiping out an entire army and a city with 
 it. Everything fits, bullets sound like they should, explosions shake the room, making the battlefield 
 sound even more chaotic than those in the previous COD games. The graphics are great and cinematic. 
 Character movements are probably the most impressive, with allies and enemies running realistically 
 to cover and dying believingly. Lighting has been upgraded and shows some truly impressive special 
 effects, especially during the early-game stormy Cargoship mission, the middle east missions, or 
 the desolate Chernobyl mission. The only thing that doesn't look as impressive are environments 
 and textures, which have received a very minor upgrade over COD2. However, this is made up for 
 by the stellar smoke effects the COD series is known for. The game also runs extremely smoothly 
 and will break 60 FPS on high settings on many modern gaming PCs. The game looks similar across 
 all three platforms, with the exception of the availability of higher resolutions on the PC version.
 
  
  Multiplayer follows in the vein of previous games, with a few exceptions such as a class system 
 and leveling up. The class system has five preset classes with default weapon load outs and perks 
 assigned to them. The game also allows you to create five custom classes where the user can customize 
 their weapon load out and three perks to assign to their soldier. The five default classes include 
 Assault, Special Ops, Light Machine Gunner, Demolitions, and Sniper. Only two of the default classes 
 are available to a first time player; the rest are unlocked as the player gains more experience 
 online and gains higher rank. Create-a-class can be unlocked at level 4; players can name and save 
 their own custom classes for quick access in multiplayer matches. Servers are well optimized and 
 much work has been done to reduce lag, even when compared to the stellar Call of Duty 2 and United 
 Offensive experiences. Your rank stays persistent and linked to your account in all three versions 
 of the game. There's twelve different gameplay modes, insuring a range of different options.
  
  Call of Duty 4, while not as revolutionary as Infinity Ward made it seem, is another solid 
 shooter in a year filled with them. The campaign is cinematic and offers tons of fun moments, but 
 suffers from short length and extreme linearity inherent to the series. The multiplayer is much 
 improved over past iterations, and should be the focus of the player once they have finished with 
 the short but sweet campaign. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DRZ-numba-1
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 28, 2007 9:53 am PT
Review:  This game lived up to all the hype, the ranking system is great and even though the Campaign is 
 short, it has an outstanding plot to it. There have been countless games that give you a really 
 long almost never ending campaign and the quality of game is terrible. Besides, why would you want 
 to give up all that time to Campaign when the multiplayer is really fun. The ranking system is 
 fun and the Challanges and the Bootcamp objectives gives you more motivation to switch up your 
 weapons and switch up the gameplay. There is a great variaty of maps, and you can also customize 
 your class to better suit ur style of play. Also you can get a radar, call in airstrikes, and bring 
 in choppers. Also there are many multiplayer modes to keep you interested. If you feel like playing 
 on deams you can play teamdeath matches. Or if your in a "SCREW EVERYONE ELSE" state of mind you 
 can go in a free for all. Or you do a headquaters match which is protecting areas in a map. Also 
 when you rank up you can unlock new weapons and camoflouge for that weapon, and you can unlock 
 scopes and silencer bullets for your weapon.
  
  Basically its just a great overall experience and if your into First Person Shooters you should 
 buy this game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: prasath_amd
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 29, 2008 8:26 pm PT
Review:  Call of duty 4 is definetly the ' Game of the Year ' Call of duty 4 wins hands down the reason 
 is simple: 
  
  1. Its the best & most intensive experience I've experienced on my PC yet. 
  2. Some levels were 
 almost unbelievable & too life-like. Call of duty series have been known for cinematic & life-like 
 experiences but this this one blows every game in the industry to bits
  
  3. Crysis is my favorite game but this year most gamers including me don't have the required hardware 
 to run it at MAX settings. So COD4 scores on this front for being the most photo-realistic game 
 for now.
  
  4. I will stil say that COD4 is undoubtebly the best Game of 2007 by quite a long shot. Because 
 it has thrilled Gamers across many platfroms. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Stowik
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 28, 2007 6:26 am PT
Review:  It's hard for me to describe why I like this game so much. I think anyone who has played it and 
 enjoys first person shooters will agree that it is an outstanding game. Basically, it's a typical 
 first person shooter but one done really, really well. 
  
  First of all, it's set in contemporary times. This means that the plot, weapons and equipment are 
 all things that you could see on the evening news. The plot involves terrorism and nuclear weapons. 
 It's a nice break from aliens, genetically modified mutants and most importantly, World War 2. 
 
  
  Secondly, the graphics and sound effects are terrific. It adds to the immersion factor when you 
 see a lot of details. Guns sounds like guns and you can almost feel the recoil when you shoot a 
 weapon (that sounds corny but it really is an immersive game) . 
  
  A third strength of this game is what I call "pacing". Each mission -- including the obligatory training 
 introduction -- is fast paced and interesting. The cinematics between missions (heck, even the loading 
 times have things to read and watch) are very well done and tell the story in a compelling way. 
 The effect is that you want to keep on playing and there is never a dull moment or a boring mission 
 that you are completing just to get to the next one. You really find yourself feeling as though 
 you are part of the story. 
  
  Another note about the cinematics: there is a great opening scene that introduces you to the enemy. 
 It involves a hostage and a drive through a middle eastern city. This is one of the more emotionally 
 powerful cutscenes I have sat through in a game. As an American, with friends and relatives who 
 fought in Iraq -- and as somebody who has travelled in the middle east -- I found this cutscene very 
 well done and relevant as we are living in a time when televised executions by terrorists are not 
 unheard of. 
  
  Overall, this is a great -- albeit short -- game. I have no problem recommending it and think the quality 
 of the game more than compensates for it's brevity. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: DannyHR
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 27, 2007 11:52 pm PT
Review:  Firstly I would like to say a word or two about the single player. It's awesome, interesting and 
 full of fun action, but it's short too. Nevertheless, it's better than any shooter SP i played 
 in a while. Despite the fact it's over so soon, the quality of it gives you a positive opinion 
 after playing, and hey, you can always replay it...
  
  About the multiplayer. It's great, addictive for some time and somewhat diferent from other shooter 
 games. I love the stats part of the MP, but i was hoping it wouldnt be so easy to rank up. I was 
 a bit disappointed with that speed of the rank up to be honest, that's why i ranked up to the top 
 with 2 different accounts.
  Now, after almost 100 hours of COD4 gameplay behind me, i'm getting bored of the game soon. After 
 playing two or three rounds it just can't keep me on it. But i do play it every week and will probably 
 continue to do so in the coming days, until the game dies.
  
  Overall  COD4 is a great game, worth the money it costs and is definitly fun to play. Maybe not 
 as long lasting as BF2, but a quality game all in all.
  My warm recommendation to FPS lovers out there. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: elbow2k
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 27, 2007 11:29 pm PT
Review:  I think someone at Infinity Ward got the message, and that was, screw World War, we are going modern 
 baby, big time. Thank goodness they did, because Call of Duty 4 serves up one of the most refreshing 
 and exhilarating experiences in a while. Instead of focusing on crap from the past, Infinity Ward 
 has decided to move forward and set this newest edition of Call of Duty in the modern times. It's 
 simply an awesome new perspective that is just beautifully crafted, and built to make you foam 
 at the mouth. I can't seem to stop coming up with good things to say about this game, in fact I've 
 recommended this game to anyone who has the ability to play, whether it be console owners or PC 
 gamers.
  
  Seems like I'm going crazy all over this game isn't it? Well there is good reason for that. I've 
 never played a Call of Duty game before, because I frankly didn't give a youknowwhat about World 
 War shooters, so why care, right? When I heard that Call of Duty was going modern, I was still 
 less than impressed  who gives a (explicit) right? - because frankly, the latter half of this 
 year has seen some serious first person shooter games come out, that honestly make you almost forget 
 that you've got other things to do . However, after reading the reviews and hearing several testimonies, 
 I decided to fork over some cash and get into the game. 
  
  Infinity Ward gives us a new experience that screams to be played. Even though it houses a short 
  roughly six hours  campaign, it does however give you one of the best single player experiences 
 ever in the first person shooter genre. You literally feel the tension, almost as if you are being 
 part of the whole experience. Coupled with magnificent production values, this game is just a blast 
 to play. Ever mission was memorable, including, bar none, one of the "sickest"  this (explicit) 
 is off the hook basically - levels I have ever played in any game. Playing something like that 
 will just make you smack your head and say, dam what have I been missing? 
  
  Even though the campaign seems to have a twisted sense of what a happy ending is, making the ending 
 difficult to enjoy. Without giving too much away, you become attached to your team mates; something 
 which I haven't experienced since Half Life 2. I think you get the general idea right? I'm amazed, 
 at how much they were able to squeeze out of such an short campaign. As if that wasn't enough, 
 it has one of the deepest multiplayers ever. Having rpgesq elements, it promotes the idea that 
 the longer I play, the more stuff I can get, and thus the better I can equip my player. It lends 
 it self to be a good team oriented game, with guns ablaze, you do well to work with your team, 
 instead of just running wildly.
  
  That being said, I felt that some parts of the game detracted from the experience. The team AI 
 in the campaign, although helpful at times, was rather weak; it lacked assertiveness, or the ability 
 to really help you get out of a jam. At times when you feel like making a dash across to get better 
 cover, you can't really rely on your team because you might find that they are too far back and 
 unable to really provide assistance. The multiplayer, although deep, doesn't seem to specifically 
 reward good players. Experience is generated regardless of how good or bad you are, so you could 
 be better than another player, but share the same rank. The multiplayer would have benefited from 
 some form of bonus system that deals with rewarding good performances. However it is still highly 
 enjoyable.
  
  Call of Duty 4 is a magnificent game to look at. I was able to max it out at 1080i on my PC, while 
 playing it on my HDTV, and it was a gem. The missions dealing with the Middle Eastern threat, looked 
 stunning; they created an incredible atmosphere that really helps to bring the experience home. 
 The character models looked fantastic and the animation was top notch. It also has some great sound, 
 the musical score only adds on to an already impressive atmosphere. Presentation wise this game 
 is amazing. Multiplayer interface is also well done, being a regular Steam user, I was really happy 
 when I found a similar user interface which made it simple to quickly get into a game and enjoy 
 the experience.
  
  When it's all said and done, if you're an FPS buff, then this is a must, and if you are a gamer, 
 I highly recommend this game, because it will just knock your socks off. It's a bit short, but 
 (explicit) , a lot of first person shooters these day are. However, don't let any of the negative 
 aspects of this game deter you from getting it, because the positives simple out weight the negatives, 
 big time. You won't regret buying this, because a game as good as this one this doesn't come out 
 often.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Reganster
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 27, 2007 2:33 pm PT
Review:  Call of Duty 4 is definitely an awesome game, but a few flaws can really get annoying. First off, 
 the good. The graphics are great on the campaign, and on the multiplayer levels. The controls are 
 well thought out, and work well. The campaign is interesting and is very cool and has great elements. 
 My favorite part was trying to outrun a nuclear explosion in a helicopter, needless to say it didn't 
 work very well. Things like that make the game very interesting. Two great features are the perk 
 system. They aadd an exciting twist to an already great multiplayer. The game is really cool, but 
 there also some disappointing shortfalls. The worst one for me was the lack of a co-op for the 
 campaign. The other disappointment was single-player Xbox Live. How hard can it possibly be to 
 let guests play. It didn't seem too hard for the designers of Halo 3. You could even do it in Halo 
 2. How could they miss out on something that big? How?! Another thing I don't like about it, and 
 this has been present in the entire series, is the infinite respawns of enemies unless you take 
 positions is stupid. If you kill everyone in a house THERE IS NO ONE ELSE IN THE HOUSE. People 
 don't randomly appear in houses that have been cleared out. That is a big hit to the realism of 
 a game that is very similar to real life. Call of Duty could have been a amazingly awesome, but 
 it has a few letdowns that hold it back. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jose619
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 27, 2007 2:20 pm PT
Review:  Ok, so basically this game is like uber compared to all. The reason I say this is because of the 
 multi-player. I personally don't really care about the single player... I mean you shoot a couple 
 of computer programmed things that you can eventually find a weakness to. Multi-player is different 
 and crazy. 
  
  Single player... well not to much to say on it. I'll say it's too short. I mean I read that it 
 was short, but it only took me one day to slice through it. 
  
  Multi-player... HARDCORE ****!!!! Unbelievable compared to other games out there. Graphics are 
 very well and almost no lag which is what us PC gamers love. I like the rank and how you have to 
 work your way up to that .50 cal ^__^
  I say get this game and love it, sleep with it. DON'T EVEN SLEEP!!!! This game is awesome. As the 
 first military game to enter modern fighting, this one deserves a perfect score just because of 
 the smoothness, game play, and the ADDICTION THAT IS BETTER THAN DRUGS!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: noctoural88
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 27, 2007 10:20 am PT
Review:  Hmm... Where do I begin? This game is plain fun. It's not all It's cracked up to be though. It 
 is way too easy and short. The graphips are top notch, and the interface is very versitile and 
 learnable. I feel the multiplayer function is FAR from perfect, and it was just thrown in there 
 by the designers to shut people up. It is short to the point where you can easily beat the game 
 in 2-3 hours. However, I recommend getting it, because it is something worth playing while it lasts. 
 Overall I think you'll agree that it earned the 7.5 that I gave  
 ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: VercettiTommyy
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 27, 2007 8:37 am PT
Review:  At first, when I heard that Call of Duty 4 will be Modern Warfare & not WWII I believed that the 
 game would suck & that I wouldn't wanted. But now I know I was so wrong...
  The story of the game is inspired by modern conflicts. USA against Middle East & of course the rivalry 
 between USA & Russia, which gets to a civil war in Russia, one side allied with the Americans, one 
 with the arabs.
  You'll play with two soldiers: a british one, who becomes the world's greatest hero,& an american 
 soldier, which eventually dies in a nuclear blast in Iraq.
  As in previous Call of Duty games, you'll have to complete different objectives: kill them all, go 
 there, blow that up, save that guy & similar things. Now the Single Player campaign is extreamly 
 short, in about 6 hours it's all done.& that ain't nice at all; it's a little longer than Medal of 
 Honor Airborne's ,& a lot better, but still it's very short.
  Now the game wants you to think you're in a movie or something. It pretty damn well does, but not 
 everytime. There are some splendid moment, like the nuclear blast one, a hellicopter crash in Pripyat 
 (near Chernobyl, you'll know the big wheel from STALKER-Shadow of Chernobyl) , the snipe-assasination 
 (greatly realised, I won't spoil it) & the end... But sometimes you know that all you have to do 
 is go & shoot everyone & the atmosphere goes to hell. Overall, the atmosphere is inferior to the 
 ones in Call of Duty 1 & Call of Duty 2.& the tank mission is also gone, now there's a pretty nice 
 shoot-from-special-plane mission, but I still miss the tank ones. So even though it has interesting 
 storyline for a wargame, Call of Duty 4-s single player campaign isn't that good.
  But the surprise comes in multiplayer. A combination between previous Call of Duty multiplayer & 
 a lot of elements taken from Battlefield 2142. All packed,& there it goes: one of the best multiplayer 
 games ever (second, Rock Band is actually better) . Some good multiplayer types: Deathmatch, Team 
 Deathmatch, Domination, Headquarters (my favorite) , Free for All, Search & destroy & some others. Every 
 time you get enough experience points you level up,& at some level ups you unlock new weapons, 
 weapon upgrades & perks (abilities like letting a grenade after you die, pulling out pistol before 
 dieing, more health, more accuracy, etc) . Level cap is 55 I guess. & for aditional XP you should complete 
 challenges (like get 25 kills with that weapon, give 5 headsots, call in 5 airstrikes, blow up 5 cars, etc 
 . The multiplayer, even though very similar to Battlefield 2142 is so good that you won't be able 
 to leave it.
  The graphics are decent, with a bunch of cool effects, but are not so fotorealistic as in Crysis, Bioshock, Medal 
 of Honor Airborne, Orange Box or Unreal Tournament 3. But good, anyhow.& the sound is quite ok, sometimes 
 voice acting is not all that convincing, music kindda sucks & some gunshots sound bad, but OK overall.
 
  So we have ourselves a superb multiplayer FPS, the best I mean, but as singleplayer it's... mediocre. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: skater81st
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 27, 2007 5:41 am PT
Review:  The Game is very addictive. Ive been playing it on my 42Inch LCD and i feel like im actually in 
 the game. They did a very good job in making the game feel life like. Ive been in the military 
 for a day now and this game defiantly brought back some memories. Especially the ending of the 
 game!
  
  But multiplayer on the other hand, you have you regular object of winning the battle, then you 
 got the million challenges that the game offers making killing the enemy more exciting. Then the 
 game offers you like 50 some weapons, and each weapon you have the ability to add stuff to it like 
 sliencers, red dots, grips.... Then you have special abilities which are makes each character different. 
 You can make you soldier be super steathly by blocking UAV dection and putting your sliencer on, 
 giving you total suprise or grab a machine gun and making it shoot faster
  
  This is by far best game of the year 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bhowie4
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 27, 2007 5:04 am PT
Review:  Okay, first the bad news:
  
  This game is short. Really short if your playing it on one of the easier difficulty levels. And 
 to those consumers out there who hate to play multiplayer games and only buy games for the single 
 player campaign, you may be slightly disappointed. However, I say slightly because everything else 
 about this game is near perfect. 
  
  The single player campaign is one of the best I've played in a long time. As short as it was, it 
 was an incredible experience. Name a gaming element from the first person shooter genre and it 
 will be blended seamlessly into this game: stealth gameplay, running and gunning, sniping, blowding 
 stuff up good. It's all there in just the right amounts. 
  
  Another great aspect to the game is the AI. Your team's AI will actually take cover, shoot back 
 and take out the enemy. The same can be said for your enemy. Toss a grenade too soon at a cluster 
 of bad guys and what do they do? The scatter just like they should. This is just another seamless 
 element to the game that makes it feel that much more realistic. 
  
  COD4 also shines in its multiplayer which will give you an incredible value for your gaming dollar. 
 The ranking and class system is great for keeping you up until 2am because you just "need a couple 
 more XP points" or "I just have to complete one more challenge." And while an argument could be 
 made for a class system creating unfair advantages to the more veteran players, I never personally 
 found this to be the case. Just because you may be a four star general with all the bells and whistles 
 doesn't mean your not gonna get shot like some newb private when you get sloppy. My only complaint 
 with the multiplayer is that the maps do get a little stale after a while. Hopefully, however, 
 Infinity Ward will release new maps in the form of down loadable content just to keep things fresh. 
 
  
  Yes, the single player campaign of this game is short. But there is just so much quality packed 
 into COD4 that you WILL get value for your money. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NosmoKing1984
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 27, 2007 2:17 am PT
Review:  I really enjoyed the first Call of Duty when it was first released, it was a lot of fun and was 
 realistic without being too restrictive. Some games take realism too far and it can be a little 
 boring. But Call of Duty got a good balance, so I was quite excited when Call of Duty 2 was released. 
 Unfortunately there was something missing and it didn't quite hit the mark for me, so I wasn't 
 too bothered when Call of Duty 3 wasn't released on PC since I didn't think I'd be missing anything. 
 When I heard about Call of Duty 4, my first reaction was they're beating a dead horse here, but 
 I was pleasantly surprised when I found it wasn't another WW2 shooter. So I decided to give Call 
 of Duty 4 a go since it looked like it was something a little different. And it is.
  
  While this game is heavily scripted, I think this is a very good thing since it gives you a very 
 cinematic experience that you just don't get with more free roaming games. Some of the sequences 
 are just breath taking and it draws you into the game in a way that a lot of games recently haven't 
 managed.
  
  The weapons are great fun to use, it can sometimes be difficult to see what is going on when looking 
 down the iron sights, as this is the only way to get any accuracy at range, but this isn't too 
 much of a problem. Pressing the right mouse button brings up the iron sights rather quickly so 
 you can easily look around normally and bring it to iron sights to take a few shots without any 
 fuss. There is also a fair range of weapons to use too, with plenty of modifications.
  
  There are times though where the difficulty ramps up suddenly and you'll find yourself dying a 
 lot of times. For most of the game you are in a squad of men and have plenty of back up, which 
 do a fair job at taking the enemy down. But there is a sequence where there is only you and one 
 other man, both carrying sniper rifles, and there are hordes of enemies reminiscent of Serious 
 Sam without the comedy or outrageous weaponry.
  
  The enemy AI also seem to be quite suicidal most of the time and will just sprint towards you with 
 no hesitation. You'll come across a heavily bunkered area where the enemy has a clear strangle 
 hold on the battlefield, and they will happily jump their defences and charge you. Why they willingly 
 sacrifice their selves like this I'll never know but it does detract from the experience a little.
 
  
  These few niggles don't really detract that much from the overall experience of the game however, 
 the single player campaign is very good but you probably won't want to play it through twice.
 
  
  The most surprising thing about Call of Duty 4 is the multiplayer, usually with realistic shooters, 
 the multiplayer is devastatingly boring or just has some basic deathmatch. But Call of Duty 4 has 
 lots of game modes that are tons of fun to play. There are only team based modes but this isn't 
 a bad thing, I don't think an all out deathmatch would be at all entertaining.
  
  Also with the multiplayer is the ability to level up your character and earn upgrades to your weapons 
 and other abilities. Weapon upgrades are earned by skillful use of that weapon, such as make x 
 number of headshots earns you a scope for example. There are other general upgrades as well like 
 Deep Impact that makes your bullets go through thicker surfaces. There are some of these that are 
 very annoying like Martyrdom which drops a grenade whenever you are killed. This is very frustrating 
 when you've just killed someone and you get blown up, every time.
  
  Multiplayer matches seem to be dominated by explosives even on servers that ban the use of Martyrdom. 
 More often than not, you will get blown up by random grenades that people lob across the map in 
 the hope of getting someone.
  
  There is also a nice little touch that you don't have a radar telling you all of your team mates 
 positions, at least, not initially. When you make 3 kills in a row, you can call in a UAV that 
 will show your team mates possitions regardless of whether they are inside or outside. But it will 
 also show enemy possitions, but only if they are outside. 5 kills will earn you an air strike that 
 you can call in, 7 kills will get you a helicopter. The helicopters will circle the battlefield 
 shooting any enemy it spots until it is either shot down and times out.
  
  All in all, Call of Duty 4 is by far the best Call of Duty game so far and has a lot of gameplay 
 in it. While the single player is short and doesn't have much replay value, the multiplayer will 
 keep you interested for a while.
  
  Have fun 
::::::

::::::
UserName: brood_aliance
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 26, 2007 10:31 pm PT
Review:  Call of Duty 4: Modern Warfare, one of the most anticipated games of 2007, is a great PC game. 
 As all of you know by now, Call of Duty 4 is a game based in present day, and not in World War 
 II, like all the other Call of Duty games. That makes for a refreshing change from the overdeveloped 
 WWII genre. 
  
  When you first start playing this game, you will notice the stunning graphics. The textures are 
 exceptional and you could see the time and effort Infinity Ward has put into this. 
  
  The sound is also very good. The orchestral scores, and sound effects are great. The only sound 
 effect I didn't like very much was the sound of the assault rifles (especially the AK47, and M4 
 Carbine) . They sounded like SMGs, and not enough like the real deal. That minor flaw is only personal 
 preference, but I probably noticed that because it was the only bad fruit in a cornucopia of awesomeness. 
 
  
  The singleplayer campaign is pretty good. You follow the path of 1 USMC soldier, and 1 SAS soldier, 
 as they try prevent terrorists, and commies from taking over the world. The missions are fun, and 
 exciting. I really liked how they had some "special" missions. For example, in one mission you 
 become a pilot of air force gunner, and wreck havoc below. In another mission, you and your superior 
 are in a stealthy, sniper mission trying to assassinate someone. This makes for different, and 
 interesting experiences. After you beat the campaign, you unlock arcade mode, where you earn points 
 for every enemy you kill. You also unlock cheats. You must collect a certain amount intel from 
 your missions to unlock a certain amount of cheats. I thought the campaign was a bit short (at 
 around 6 hours to beat) , but you will spend most of your time in this game in multiplayer. 
  
  Multiplayer was always what made Call of Duty the creme de la creme of shooters. This is no 
 different. What makes CoD4 unique from other shooters are the perks. Perks are abilities you have 
 in the battlefield. You may have 1 perk from each group of perks. The Perk 1 group includes item 
 perks (being able to carry grenades, getting an RPG, or having more magazines) . The Perk 2 group 
 includes weapon and health perks (being able to have more health, or to have more powerful bullets) . 
 The Perk 3 group includes perks that don't fit in the other categories (being able to drop a grenade 
 when you die, or being able to hear enemy conversation) . There are many I did not mention, but 
 you can see how this makes for some great, and different multiplayer. Another cool addition to 
 CoD4 is the ability to mod weapons with an attachment and camoflage. You can create 5 of your own 
 classes by using different weapons, attachments, camoflage and perks. The many modes in this game 
 keep it refreshing. Modes include Free for All, Team Deathmatch, Search and Destroy (a CS type 
 mode) , Domination (a mix of CTF, and conquest mode from the Battlefield series) , and many more. 
 You collect experience for every kill, and every objective you complete. When you get enough experience, 
 you will level up. Every level has different unlocks like new weapons, perks, and challenges. Challenges 
 are achievements, like killing 50 players with a certain weapon, or falling from a certain distance. 
 These achievements give you weapon attachments and camouflage, and/or experience. All of this keeps 
 the multiplayer interesting, refreshing, and most importantly, fun.
  
  Call of Duty 4 is an amazing game with great production values. Graphics, sound, and gameplay are 
 all top notch. There are some minor flaws in the game, but don't interfere greatly when playing. 
 Simply put, this is a must get for 2007 for anyone interested in shooters. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cowboy339
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 25, 2007 9:15 pm PT
Review:  I'm comparing these games - Call of Duty 4 AND Battlefield 2 (+ BF2142) because they are the BEST 
 right now.
  
  GRAPHICS - hands down COD4 is better. WHY - because more violent and real appearance instead of 
 cartoon. COD4's graphics are very impressive.
  
  MULTI PLAYER GAME PLAY - It's a toss up because I like battlefield's LARGE maps where you have 
 the freedom to go where ever you want. WHILE COD4 has greater intensivity and better close quarter 
 action. Best map in COD4 is Overgrown and Downpour because there is greater mobility and the maps 
 look GREAT!!! The UNLOCKS are great in both games.
  I'm surprised that COD4 didn't have SQUADS like in Battlefield - In Battlefield IF you're in a 
 GREAT squad - it's really AMAZING!!! CONCLUSION - IF COD4 made their maps larger - it would definitely 
 be the better online game. So in order of preference it is:
  
  1) COD4 and Battlefield 2 - tied.
  2) Battlefield 2142 SIDE NOTE: BF2 is better than BF2142 because 
 the maps are far better in BF2 and I prefer modern combat than BF2142's futurist style. BF2142's 
 maps are **** - really poor job. However, BF2142 does have MUCH better UNLOCKS than BF2 + the titan 
 mode is a great addition too. IF BF2 had the unlocks that BF2142 has and the titan mode set up 
 - that would be the ultimate Battlefield game. GAMESPOT's rating of the two games goes along with 
 my assessment + there are probably 10 TIMES more people playing BF2 than BF2142............. BF2 
 is simply a better game.
  
  SINGLE PLAYER GAME PLAY
  - There is completely NO contest here. COD4's single player is AMAZING - really great!!!! Even 
 though others complain it's too SHORT - it's really impressive. To make the game longer, I suggest 
 you play in EXPERT mode because it's much harder and therefore WILL DEFINITELY take you longer 
 to finish. I view it as almost CHEATING IF you just play at beginner mode. Battlefield's single 
 player is garbage - it's multiplayer or nothing in Battlefield.
  
  
  MY ADVICE:
  
  Download both demo's - see if your computer can handle the graphics and game play. Make your decision 
 from that experience. WHICH GAME I PREFER:
  
  Right now it's COD4 - I'm hooked on the multiplayer - BUT I still wish they made the maps larger.....
 
  I'll probably still play BF2 ever once in a while - it'll be nice to be able to move around in 
 those large maps.
  BF2142 - is a disappointment - at times it's fun but it's simply a weaker game than BF2. The unlocks 
 in BF2142 will keep you playing for a while BUT after that wave of interest dies down - you'll 
 realize that the game play in BF2 is far better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheCrapp
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 27, 2008 11:01 pm PT
Review:  Call of Duty was known as a great WWII shooter series, which their first games were purely awesome, 
 as they only put you on the boots of a soldier, and then straight to the battles of the WWII history. 
 I made an Call of Duty 2 review on my profile, check it if you want.
  
  But now, all was about to change
  Call of Duty 4: Modern Warfare is the latest entry on the series, 
 and it clearly defines the truly warfare concept with an amazing production on all the elements 
 that makes a great game. In other words, is a hell of a game, its extreme, its mean, its so fun, 
 its Call of Duty 4.
  
  So let me point out the basic review elements i always make:
  
  Gameplay: Awesome, as the Call of Duty series was all about action on first person perspective, 
 they kept it on that great way. Allies and enemies AI is very smart and outstanding as always, 
 you have a varied missions system to keep you dynamic as you reach and accomplish them, and you 
 have a huge arsenal of real weapons for the enemies to deal with.
  
  Single-Player experience: Excellent, as we are not living or expecting a war on this modern era, 
 Call of Duty 4 comes with an fictional, explosive, shocking and intriguing storyline that was great 
 from start to finish, and hook you up like a very hungry fish looking something to eat. To don't 
 spoil you, let me tell that the single player campaign takes you to different places around the 
 world, making the things very fun and awesome, and say goodbye with your life diary screen when 
 some level is loading, as it was replaced, by cool briefing videos ala modern era.
  
  Graphics: Incredible, they attended all the main details that a game needs, and its a very great-looking 
 game, with great lighting, textures, shadows and post-processing effects, and its very PC friendly 
 game as it doesn't require a huge-rig to play it with all the graphics turned on.
  
  Sound: On my point of view, let me say that this is the game with the best sound production ever, 
 with mind-blowing sound effects that feels very real and good-hearing to, with great firing and 
 explosion sounds, and conversations via radio.
  
  Quality and Performance: Excellent and intact, without any bugs or issues that screw your gaming 
 momentum.
  
  Multi-player experience: AMAZING, this games is packed with an excelent multiplayer part, with 
 great maps, alll the maps are well made and fun to play in, and a permanent rank system where leveling 
 up, mean new guns and abilities, which is cool but i didn't liked so much, cuz i like more all 
 the things unlocked on the multiplayer part of a game, but overall is an amazing experience as 
 its lasting appeal.
  
  Well, im sad to say that this game was almost perfect because the amazing Single-player campaign 
 was short in comparison to the older call of duties, but just for that, as for the rest, this game 
 is simply a must have to every PC owner, so just buy it and enjoy it now! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DrackoSoldat
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 25, 2007 1:56 pm PT
Review:  Now, I have been playing COD since the first one and, naturally, I had high expectations for COD4. 
 And... most of them were, indeed, fulfilled! Honestly, It's hard for me to be objective, but I'll 
 try to write a few words about it.
  
  First of all:
  If you're a shooter-fanatic, who likes to run around and shoot everything, this game is indeed 
 for you! The original MP is pretty ... pointless. Shoot, kill, bang, bang. Yawn. And the upgrading 
 system leaves a lot to be desired, but I guess it's fair to a certain point. 
  
  Now, if you are not a fanatic, you might want to try to connect to other servers, non-original. 
 I, for one, have been playing on them for a while now and they are much more fun. You can make 
 complicated battle plans and extremely wonderful shots on it. Also, those who use these servers 
 are usually more mature and instead of the "u Sux3orz" , you can actually get decent words out 
 of them. 
  
  Graphics:
  Wonderful. What can I say? If it can render realistic /hair/ on a guy's arm and make the people 
 seem real, it's pretty good, don't you think?
  
  Sound: The usual. It could have been better. More realistic shots and explosions.
  
  SP: The 
 single player is good, to say the least! From a sinking ship to nuclear winter, this is one campaign 
 you don't want to miss! Wonderful characters and one of my favorites (Cpt. Price) fight for survival 
 on two fronts, which blend into a wonderful story of war.
  
  Quick sum-up:
  Buy it, if you want. It will probably fulfill your expectations! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Talus057
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 25, 2007 11:54 am PT
Review:  I bought COD4: MW yesterday and have massed a playing time of just under 3 hours in multi player, 
 and 2 hours in the single player. I am very pleased to report that this is a finished game! The 
 2007 seasons have finally graced us with a product that is complete in its released form, and I 
 am astonished to say the very least. Well done, Infinity Ward! This rarity is to be commended.
 
  
  
  The Single Player campaign is very innovative even though I am told it is very short. It is fast 
 paced though and the autosave feature is very well done. It saves very quickly at every "push", 
 so you do not have to micromanage your saves; just load up your profile and frag on. The story 
 and voice-overs are all very well done, the sounds are awesome, though I can't say anything about 
 music because I have been too immersed in the game to pay attention to it.
  
  
  This is my first time I bought an FPS with the Rank & Challenge system, so as an outsider I was 
 a little concerned about the balance issues that seem to be apparent on all the other FPS games 
 with this type of RPG system included. I was very surprised at the balance of the weaponry & modifications. 
 Even though there was an obvious different in power, rate of fire, and accuracy, between a newbie 
 like me and any of the veteran players, I still felt competitive and was in a position to get to 
 level 5 which is when you get your first bunch of stuff, and are able to start using different 
 weapons and modifying what you currently have.
  
  
  Multi Player is where this game comes out of its shell. For someone used to games like Tribes & 
 CS: Source, the fast pace of everything is all very new to me. You really have to pay attention 
 to your "six" or you will get fragged really quick. 
  
  The thing newbies will need to know before coming into the COD4MW world is that this is not a game 
 where you will just go through shooting. This is not a game of honor in the sense where you play 
 fairly. Often times, to win a match, or to capture an area, you need to attack from the flank. 
 This means you will have to sneak up on your enemy and shoot him in the back. Don't buy this game 
 expecting grand fire-fights because that may get you a kill or two but you will die after with 
 nothing to show for it. The only way to win, and survive, is to attack the flank and surprise your 
 enemy. It is my opinion that that is where the game starts to shy away from what we as FPS Gamers 
 accept as a modern FPS. It is unfair and without honor, but it is realistic, and it is not always 
 like this on every map.
  
  The maps are all very well done, and each of them has a certain theme to it. Some of them have 
 a lot of buildings and obstacles, while other maps are very small and are designed to cause absolute 
 chaos. Last night I was on this very small map where both teams are spawned on 1 of 4 of the same 
 positions. It was so funny because everyone was complaining about Spawn Camping, when the map was 
 designed that way. Once you accept that fact about the map, it was very fun, and everyone had a 
 good time.
  
  Most people do not talk much, and it is a little obstructive to have to read the local and team 
 chat. In CS: Source & Tribes, you can easily get through a match without VOiP (TeamSpeak, Ventrilo, 
 etc) and have a good time playing, but in this game, if you are playing competitively, you will 
 really need to login to the server VOiP channel so you can communicate faster. It just takes too 
 long to press t/y and type your message, and personally I try not to pay attention to what people 
 are saying in local chat because it is very obstructive. So if you have a Head Set with a Microphone 
 then you will have a much easier time communicating with your teammates. While this is a given 
 in any game of any genre, it is more so a factor with this game than any other I have experience 
 playing.
  
  With 1GB of memory, a decent modern processor, and a decent modern graphics card, this game is 
 going to run nicely, and look nicely. The loading times are just as fast as CS: Source, if not faster, 
 so I have no complaints in that department at all.
  
  In conclusion, I think any FPS fan will definitely want to get their hands on this game. It is 
 a unique & modern game, and you will definitely feel different playing it compared to other FPS 
 games you are probably more used to. People new to the FPS genre might have a little difficulty 
 getting used to all these game mechanics in Multi Player because of all the factors I have listed 
 here. It is hard to get used to having to watch everything around you, and sometimes there are 
 corners that are very dark, and you cannot see too well. Before I end my review, I will also say 
 that unlike CS: Source, the Night Vision is very well done. I can see everything much clearer in 
 the dark, and everything is harder to see when it is not dark.
  
  If you are still looking over reviews, wondering if you should pick up this game, and have not 
 decided yet, then let me put you at ease. This is the best FPS of the year and you will not be 
 disappointed. This is the game all the other FPS developers wish they had made. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Adversary16
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 25, 2007 9:10 am PT
Review:  If you've read my other reviews, you will notice that even I've written few, I've never called 
 a game a masterpiece. You can easily see that the developers have worked hard on this one and that's 
 the way I like it...
  
  Ok so I've started this game on highest difficulty on my first way through and to be honest, it's 
 hard but what would you expect from a war so I gave it a 'Just Right'. Let's start with the first 
 impressions. The first mission is well, awesome because it quickly sucks you in and to continue 
 this way and I'll also say it feels exactly like if you're watching a 5-stars movie! There are 
 tons of modern weapons at your disposal too since they walked away from WWII setting which IMO, 
 is a very smart move. 
  
  The graphics are great to say the least but the point is that it runs extremely well on a high-end 
 PC and my friend told me he could max it on his medium-end PC so you go figure. There are some 
 bad textures here and there but whatever!
  
  The gameplay is just plain fun since it's so intense, diversified and you just can't get enough 
 of watching the bad guys' animations when they get shot.
  It's pretty linear but not completely so I'll just say that there's a balanced mixture of both. 
 I can't write all the features guys so go check them out yourselves.
  
  There are no flaws big enough to be called cons (Some might mention the length so it's your call) 
 in this game but it's far from being perfect either so let's hear its well-deserved rewards:
  Best sound effects
  Great graphics & graphics engine
  Amazing gameplay
  Best overall value
 
  
  Bye guys! I'm gonna play Call of Duty 4: Modern Warfare!
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: shexcel
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 25, 2007 7:19 am PT
Review:  Call of Duty 4: Modern Warfare is a highly capable game which has all the components required to 
 garnish the coveted 'GOTY' moniker. Outstanding graphics, an immersive atmosphere and story, and 
 an addictive multiplayer RPG system combine to make this game worthy of that title. The only negatives 
 I find in this game are the lack of innovation in gameplay and a short single player campaign.
 
  
  Let's start with the storyline and atmosphere, which to me provide the general matrix of a fun 
 single-player FPS. While playing COD4, you'll often find yourself staring at breathtaking, expansive 
 vistas: towering mountains topped with white frost, golden sand dunes reflecting the hot sun, and 
 green, hilly countrysides. Next thing you know, you're thrown in the midst of the iron jungles 
 of desert, or more like the stone jungles with Middle-Eastern architectural decos and buildings, 
 which provide a stark contrast to the former. Not only are the backgrounds variegated, but the 
 characters too. Even the person you play changes, making for an intersting change in gameplay mechanics, 
 which I'll explain later. The music and sound of the game are superb, and provide an immersive 
 experience which can only be done justice by first-hand listening. The cracking of each of the 
 carious armaments -- from M4 Carbine Assault Rifles to Fully Automatic Machine guns to the blast 
 of an RPG across the skyline -- you'll feel as if you're right there. The music is appropriate to 
 the mood as well as it varies according to the scene and knows when to be loud or when to be subtle. 
 
  
  The storyline to COD4 is absolutely absorbing and hits closer to home with today's gameplayers: 
 the story is based on a terrorist named Zakheiv and is set in the backdrop of the Middle-Eastern 
 Desert, thus bringing fruition to the tile 'Modern Warfare'. This obviously strkes a chord with 
 today's youth and therefore makes the game much more relevant to the majority of its players. Infinity 
 Ward (IW) wasn't the first to introduce the idea (many other games have done ir before) , but it 
 was the first to do it THIS WELL. You really do feel like you're part of an operation which is 
 hell-bent to find and eliminate an 'Al-Queda'-like target, and it's just darn fun to try. 
  
  The graphics in COD4 are gorgeous, but IW doesn't achieve this through amazing technical merit 
 but rather through artistic elegance. Indeed, COD4 doesn't stack up to a game like Crysis in terms 
 of shader and lighting effects, polygon counts, and Direct X 10 goodness, but rather the amount 
 of color and lighting that is provided somehow composes a beautiful image in its totality. I often 
 find myself staring at times in amazement at how beautiful the aforementioned backgrounds appear 
 or at how real the faces grimace. 
  But COD4 won't win the prize of GOTY (if it does) based on its graphics -- however great they are. 
 
  
  So enough of the technical aspects. What about the all-important 'fun factor' and the gameplay. 
 COD4 definitely doesn't disappoint in this department. The gameplay overall is limited in what 
 you are able to do: essentially, you grab a grab a gun and start shooting at the baddies in front 
 of you; however, IW does present some very interesting twists in this element. First of all, as 
 mentioned above, your situation changes from mission to mission very abruptly as you change perspective 
 from one person to another. You'll play as "Soap" McTavish, a green recruit who was picked fresh 
 from the camp and thrown into the mix immediately. From his perspective, you'll provide sniper 
 cover, general assault and recon, but stay away from the heavy gunnery. One mission in which you 
 snipe at Zakheiv from atop a remote Siberian building one mile away brings to mind movies such 
 as 'Sniper' and is absolutely brilliant. In another, you'll find yourself from the perspective 
 of the Airforce and dropping bombs and fire on the enemy populace from up in the sky. These kinds 
 of changes in gameplay provide an overall change in the monotony that is sometimes inherent to 
 the first-person perspective of gaming. All in all though, you are running-and-gunning through 
 the streets of a makeshift Baghdad or countrysides of Eastern Europe, which isn't so bad. The spaces 
 can feel closed at times and the options limited and scripted, but it's still fun to play along. 
 
  
  One intersting way in which the different landscapes provide varying gameplay occurs in multiplayer. 
 You'll find that depending on the scenario/map you've chosen to play, you will generally be at 
 an advantage (or disadvantage) by choosing different weapons which you will be forced to do based 
 on the class system of COD4. This is an ingenious approach and further pushes the envelope of the 
 modern multiplayer FPS which now utilize RPG elements. For example, if you're fighting in an open 
 expanse where there is not much cover to hide or to perch, then picking the sniper class will probably 
 not be a good idea. However, if you find yourelf in the midst of buildings and streets, then snipe 
 away! 
  
  Overall, COD4 is an excellent game which doesn't fall short in any major department which counts 
 for an FPS. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: alex_harrison
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 25, 2007 5:30 am PT
Review:  If your thinking about it get it now the single player is rock hard on veteran some bits will make 
 you annoyed but hey thats all in the fun of a more difficult game, if you whack it on the easier 
 mode they alter quite a lot, my tip play on veteran mode as it helps you when you play online. 
 
  The online section of the game is fantastic it must be played to believe the ranking system is 
 revolutionary it a good system that makes you want to play more to unlock different aspects to 
 the game for example perks and gun unlocks, another plus is that it makes you aim for the head 
 as opposed to pray and spray as you get awards for your gun for getting set amounts of headshots 
 which again adds to the fun in the game. 
  the prestige mode was a brilliant idea as when you hit your top rank you get shot back to the begging 
 loosing all guns, perks & gun mods then you get a rank of one but a really cool logo next to your 
 name that gets updated up to 11 times. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fueledonmusic1x
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 24, 2007 8:03 pm PT
Review:  This game is hand down the best game of the year for me.
  Gameplay: Flawless, it was perfect in the previous call of duty, it takes it up another step. Aiming 
 is a lot easier, and the AI is punishing. 10/10
  
  Graphics: Depending on ur PC's capabilities, it will look fantastic on a high end system. On a 
 medium system, it still looks fantastic. 10/10
  
  Sound: Perfect, all the characters sound real and are filled with life. All ur allies that you'll 
 fight with side by side, you'll grow attached to them. Sound effects are top notch, and the guns 
 sound... like guns. 10/10
  
  Entertainment: A short, but exciting thriller. There are very intense and sad scenes in the game, 
 and through a 4-6 hour campaign span.. you'll keep coming back for more, or you can just head to 
 the multiplayer that matches the brilliance of Halo 3. My opinion, multiplayer is best on the 360. 
 10/10
  
  Believe me, at first it felt awkward changing from WWII, which was a fantastic setting, but now 
 that i've finished this game, the modern era really makes you know that our weapons kick ass today. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ice-Blade
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 24, 2007 1:13 pm PT
Review:  this game is really the best FPS i have played since forever the storyline, the well known game-play 
 even before they release it ,the modern combat weapons ,the amazing graphics , the sounds & music 
 ,the tense of war and survival in battlefield actually I've played the series but i didn't liked 
 much you know you feel it just a clone of medal of honor or brother in arms but the taste is different 
 with this one you feel that events in COD4 is a happening right now and you are in the middle of 
 it and i hoping that they keep it that way
  i mean it big jump to release the first three releases in WWII and then jump to the modern age
 
  i love this game so much that i really wanted to be much longer and I'm waiting for COD5 impatient 
 and i expect to be with length campaign COD RULES 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Onenottoforget
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 23, 2007 5:14 pm PT
Review:  This game is awesome from the gritty and fast paced single player to the depth of the multi-player 
 CoD4 gets it right on so many levels. The ranks are fun to work through, heaps of customization 
 that will be able to suit every players tailored needs. 
  
  The Single player gives you such a deeper understanding of war that it really changes you giving 
 you an awesome experience second to none.
  
  My only problems are with a couple of overpowered weapons especially when coupled with some of 
 the perks.
  
  eg
  
  A p90 with the perk double tap will drop someone so fast its not funny. And the Desert Eagle along 
 with Last Stand can make for some frustrating moments.
  
  But overall there are many ways to counteract these which in the end relates to an overall brilliant 
 experience
  
  Get the game asap you really won't regret it.
  
  10/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: odersven
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 23, 2007 2:40 am PT
Review:  Breaking WW2 the chain a little late, but worth the wait. COD4 is everything is suppose to be and 
 nothing its not. A great and fast moving game that is a Tom Clancy novel with only action. 
  
  Unlike previous CoD games, this one involves the player in "making" history, instead of revisiting 
 it. Wonderful. And a great change of pace from other CoD games that are far too repetitive and 
 involve the war stories that still sound better from your granddad.
  
  AI is wonderful, graphics on the Xbox360 and computer scale nicely. Gameplay is extremely fluid. 
 
  
  The changing of stories/perspectives throughout the game is a great way to disrupt the onslaught 
 of previous CoD's hamster maze of "go here, do that, do it again in the same environment." Playing 
 as the S. A. S gives players the ability to play on a smaller team scale and then when rotating back 
 to the US side, you get the bigger scale teams familiar in CoD 2. The dev team did a wonderful 
 job selecting mission types and technologies to use in those missions. The C-130 mission is a great 
 example of this. 
  
  Who cares if there are no vehicles to drive. Most of the environments on the US story side are 
 too crowded to drive in, and driving around isnt what the SAS would do in its missions in real 
 life. 
  
  Great job! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BountyHunter
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 22, 2007 6:36 pm PT
Review:  Absolutely brilliant game. Single player campaign is awesome. I love running around with the S. A. S. 
 and sneaking through houses. The interaction between teammates seems real and occasionally I forget 
 they are A. I. Short sequences like the sinking ship in the first part of the game adds to the overall 
 realism of the game. It's very easy to escape, but it's still awesome. Commandeering the AC-130 
 gunship weapons was a special treat. "Ka-boom."
  
  The multi-player is even better. It just never gets old. Unlocking weapons is a bit annoying (which 
 knocksvthe game down .5 points) . Most likely my favorite kill is to wait in the tall grass in the 
 sniper getup (which makes you practically invisible) , then rise up behind someone as they pass and 
 knife them.
  
  I would wholeheartedly recommend this game. I would even bet my life you'll enjoy it. Actually, 
 I'll bet your life. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: undulation
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 22, 2007 3:49 pm PT
Review:  Call of duty 4 is in one word amazing!
  
  First of the singleplayer, i have never experienced a singleplayer wich is so in depth and pulls 
 you in. You feel like your in that squad and you wanna help your buddy's out and fight the good 
 fight.
  
  You have different mission from shooting from an ac-10 to sneaking around like a sniper they've 
 covered it all. And its all really intense with great music and gameplay that gets you involved. 
 At the end of the story i felt satisfied and sad to have finished the game (im hoping for some 
 expansions) .
  Definitly the best FPS single player ive played yet, i hope other games take an example to this.
 
  
  Graphics, well im unsure of wich engine this game uses but it is a real beauty, this game runs 
 smoothly on my middleweight p4, and still look great (unlike other games such as Crysis) .
  
  Sound, im impressed i normally dont really take much attention to sound but i noticed the background 
 music really gets you into the mood of the fight and is greatly done.
  
  Multiplayer, excellent! its been a long time ago ive played a decent fps multiplayer that sets 
 itself apart from the rest. Sure it looks a bit like BF2 but it plays totally different. Fast paced 
 with lvls and perks wich adds up to the fun, and killstreaks gets rewarded with UAV, airstrikes 
 or a helicopter that kills for you!
  
  If your in doubt if you want this game, stop it! Call of duty 4 is the best fps out there at the 
 moment wheter ur looking for online play or solid single player action. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tomal_rocks
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 22, 2007 8:48 am PT
Review:  Fantastic campaign. One of the best campaign in a game so far. You will enjoy Every bit of it. 
 Good squad action does not make u feel like rambo unlike in Far Cry or Crysis. You will feel a 
 part of a big battle and everyone contributes to he war effort. The only problem is that it is 
 too short. I just wish the campaign was more bigger in length. 
  
  Graphics is extremely sound though it is not technically superior to Crysis or Unreal Engine 3. 
 But graphics overall is very good.
  
  Multiplayer also rocks.
  
  This game should be 2007's game of the year. Forget Crysis or Bioshock when it comes to single 
 player campaign. Call of Duty 4 literally blows the competition away. I would be extremely dissapointed 
 if it does not win this year's gamespot awards. In fact it will literally break my heart if crysis 
 or bioshock win those awards. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Paduke_karatist
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 22, 2007 6:21 am PT
Review:  The first thing that struck me when I opened Call of Duty 4 is that it was running extremly smooth 
 on my Pc. I never doubted the crew at Activisoin, I doubted my own rig. I had the minimum required, and 
 I could stiil enjoy the frenzy. This demonstrates one of the best things at Call of duty 4: the genius 
 behind the programmers. They mannaged to create a game for everyone. You Don't need a very powerful 
 rig to enjoy it. Even at 640x480 the graphics rock!
  The it is the gameplay. It a perfect mix of old and new. Activision kept the control scheme from 
 call of Duty 2. Still, the inclusion of moder weapons and equipment should keep any adrenaline junkie 
 sticked to his keyboard for a long time.
  The sound, like always, is a strong point of Call of Duty. From the explosions to the tiny noises 
 of the silenced pistol everything is perfect.
  As most have heard, the game is short. IF you play it on recruit. Crank teh dificulty up and you'll 
 get a good fight.
  In conclusion, I definetly recommend you this game. It is worth its money for its singleplayer, When 
 you think that you can shoot other people with the beauties from singlepalyer in multyplayer, the 
 you'll really know that you have to get this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Frozen_Dragons
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 21, 2007 10:20 pm PT
Review:  the best shooting game i played untill today. and i play alot of shootings.
  the amazing excitement i feld while playing CoD4 is a think i almost never feel.
  
  i played 
 this game and felt like i am one of the soliders, i felt like one of the soliders, like i know 
 them for years. 
  
  not mention the amazing graphics, so realistic, even when u shoot someone right in the hand, there 
 is a cool but not too big blood split, and the hand is thrown away carelessly. it is somthing that 
 took a huge part in Solider of Fortune Payback, but in CoD4 it looks more realistic than.. brutal.
 
  
  The story. the story is also real, first, i thought that it is a real story! and i dont even know 
 NOW if it is real, because its a game, but i felt so inside this that i cant tell the different.
 
  
  for the last words, i must say, that if there will be CoD5 modern warfare, it might be less surprising 
 than the 4th, but it sure will be good. the swich CoD did, from WW2, to modern warfare, is just 
 amazing. i first thought it will not be good, but i was wrong, big time! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: twentymooseman
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 21, 2007 7:48 pm PT
Review:  As i said, great game but gets boring. The reason is that once you've beaten campaign and risen 
 to the higher ranks of multiplayer, there isn't much left to do. You've unlocked every weapon, 
 the upgrades for the weapons you want, and all the perks. what i think could have helped is if 
 you didn't get a 250 point boost for doing things as simple or stupid as falling off a 30 ft drop 
 and dying. The campaign is great but as most people have said, very short. However there are a 
 few levels that you can just play over and over again. another fun little thing in singleplayer 
 is arcade mode. This basically gives you about 3 or 4 lives and you get points for kills. This 
 sentence is just for length, so as i said multiplayer is great and all but gets pretty boring after 
 a while. Singleplayer is great, has some good characters. Overall I'd recommend this game to anyone 
 who's been playing through the series or newcomers to the series. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kyzar_x
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 21, 2007 3:49 pm PT
Review:  pros-great multi player+good story for a war game+good replay vaule
  cons-campaign is to short
  
  graphics-The frame rate it keeps up impressed me.8.5/10
  sound-This 
 game makes you feel like your in the war its self. 10/10
  multi player-Very fun and the create a class just adds to the fun.9.5/10 I got this game the day 
 it came out and i was thinking how good is this game going to be. The next week I could not put 
 it down that explains how good it is awesome..... The story has missions which will make you play 
 more then once. Also the unholy multi player will make you go crazy with excitement.
  so go out and get my pick for game of the year 2007 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: foggy666
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 21, 2007 10:19 am PT
Review:  For a long time I had the feeling that PC gaming is dying, more and more companies made console 
 exclusives, and the ports usually were bad.
  Games stopped giving me what I got into gaming for, excitement.
  I felt bitter and bored.
  
 
  And then I played Call of Duty 4. From the first moment till the end it reminded me all the great 
 things about gaming, the fun, the excitement, the anticipation of the next moment.
  It's one of those games you don't want to end, every moment is unbelievable and you actually feel 
 inside it, losing all connection with the real world. When a game manges that, it's a great game, 
 sucking you in, giving you such a tremendous experience.
  
  The story is not the most original one you ever seen, but it didn't matter, because I got so immersed 
 I believed I was in there.
  The missions vary a lot, and you do many things, from running in a ghillie suit in Prypiat, to 
 operating the cannons of a C-130 spectre gunship.
  Many moments were absolutely amazing.
  
  The graphing are very good, the game looks amazing. It's not Crysis, and it doesn't need to 
 be. Any comparison between them is superficial as they are both good and different games.
  
  This game did what many other could not, capture the essence of gaming, being exciting, fun 
 and immersive.
  This is a true masterpiece. 
  
  
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: icedmetalhead
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 21, 2007 9:34 am PT
Review:  i was really suprised about this game, the grafics are just stunning. they say crisis has the best 
 grafics off all, i played both games and maybe i would say COD4 looks better. but offcourse crysis 
 has larger view while cod is more limited, so there crisis beats cod. thats my oppinion. 
  the story in cod is realy great, (dont read the next sentence if you didnt play allready :-D) i 
 love the fact that the american character that you play dies, in how many game do you actualy die 
 in the story. 
  you dont feel like some kinda hero, youre no loser too. but just a well-trained guy.
  the AI 
 is nice, 
  the difficulty is good, you can set it as you want like in most games offcourse
  
  the onely bad things for me .... the singleplayer is too short, and enemy's sometimes trow 
 tons of grenades at you, wich can be anoying. though its realy worth the 50 euro or whatever, cause 
 its damn great.
  i didnt play the multyplayer yet, cause i still got other games to finish
  i hope there will be an expansion soon. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: USMCG_Duke
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 21, 2007 8:49 am PT
Review:  Hardcore and Tactical servers' rock. The players make the server and game play. They mostly come 
 from earlier versions of COD and are ready for good game playing. The Airstrike and Helicopter 
 Gun ship inserts an unknown element in to the game play after maps have been learned and tactics 
 have evolved in to routine battles. The maps very and are sometime too small when servers are set 
 up with large number of players, but with the correct number of players the battles can be a challenge. 
 Hardcore and Tactical servers add new elements to the game play that gives some realism to the 
 feel of COD 4. 
  COD 4 is and can stay one of the best FPS on the market if the players police themselves, keeping 
 the hacking and cheaters off the servers.
  Patches have been timely and fixed all the items they were intended for.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mudcaked
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 21, 2007 4:42 am PT
Review:  Call of Duty 4: Modern Warfare is a first person shooter based in a hypothetical modern day scenario. 
 This title takes a step aside from the series' traditional World War II setting and immerses the 
 player in a modern day conflict with an explosive and detailed storyline, and outstanding voice 
 acting and cinematics to back it up. Along with the modern day settings come a slew of weapons 
 available to the player currently in use by today's militaries.
  
  Firstly, the single player is short. But Infanity Ward has ensured that this is not so much a bad 
 thing. Every single particle of the single player campaign is pure quality, from start to finish. 
 The single player campaign focus' on several characters from the British Special Air Service and 
 the 1st USMC Force Reconnaisance as well as other characters from other branches of the military 
 and even Russian military elements. The story will span different types of operations from Covert 
 Operations and Direct Action giving the player a completely different challenge based on the operational 
 environment. The voice acting on the characters has been done remarkably well and the in game cinematics 
 have been produced brilliantly and convey the gravity and emotion of the setting portrayed. By 
 the time the player has finished the campaign I can guarantee that the story, the character's or 
 even their accents will not be easily forgotten
  
  Multiplayer really shines also, and will add much longevity to the game. There are several different 
 modes such as Team Deathmatch, Sabotage and search and destroy among others. As players progress 
 through multiplayer they will obtain higher ranks which will unlock more weapons for the player 
 to use. As weapons are used over time they can be upgraded with optics such as a Red-Dot Sight 
 or an ACOG. Other features will also be available for each individual weapon including different 
 camo patterns for a visual uniqueness. Skills can be unlocked as well benefiting players that utilise 
 different play styles. An ability for a longer breath as a sniper or an ability to fire from the 
 hip more accurately, they are there, and there are many to chose from. The maps themselves are 
 well designed to accomodate a mixture of play styles, though a more mixed team will have the better 
 advantage. To add to all this the player can customise different classes he may wish to use, He 
 might create a marksman or a grenadier among several other class types, or if the player has a 
 particular preference, He may choose to create several variants of a particular class. For example, 
 He may be a gunner and have an M60 ready to use from distance while an M249 might be customised 
 to be used in close in Close Quarter Battle. There are so many options out there that each player 
 can choose from to create characters unique to every other in the field.
  
  This game should set a benchmark for the quality of a great game. There is little more the player 
 could ask for from this title save for perhaps a longer single player experience or more FMV for 
 a more detailed story. Perhaps, but as it stands already, Call of Duty 4 is an outstanding title 
 and any FPS or Military fan would have to be crazy to miss out on getting this title. I'd recommend 
 this title to any gamer out there worth their salt! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: onewang
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 21, 2007 12:22 am PT
Review:  When a game stirs emotions in me like this one did, there's more to it than the average game. Playing 
 through the single player campaign gave me a sense of duty. Patriotism? Something. No spoilers, 
 but Captain Price is one hell of a warrior, and his character won me. When I played as Jackson 
 I felt like I was a marine, ( I'm not really, and have no real idea of what armed conflict is like) , 
 and events in the story really got my my blood pumping. No single player game has ever captured 
 my emotions like this one. Granted, it doesn't last long, but it is a great story. The ending left 
 me feeling exhilarated, but hanging... had I lost a comrade? Maybe an expansion pack will answer 
 that, but it's just one part of a bigger game. The graphics are great... at times they look like 
 footage from nightly news. The sounds in the game are great too... the different weapons report 
 uniquely, and sounds of intermittent fire in the background give a sense of depth. 
  
  The same great graphics and ambiance are present in the multi player as well. I was not a huge 
 fan of prior CoD titles' multiplayer offerings, but CoD4 is the best multiplayer game I've played 
 in recent history. Unlockable weapons seem to give incentive to keep marching on, but, the perks 
 you unlock give you an advantageous way to create a warrior that compliments your style of play. 
 The pace of multi maps stays fast and exciting, but best of all, ( in my opinion) , is the sense 
 of understanding you get from teammates. Teamkills are common, but usually all involved seem apologetic 
 and understanding. 
  
  The system requirements are very reasonable, also. My rig is budget, and the game looks and runs 
 great with most graphic options set to high. To contrast, I run the crysis demo with almost everything 
 set to low, at passing frame rates. So, for what it's worth, CoD4 is an accessible game with a 
 great single-player campaign, and a continuous multi player element that makes it a must for any 
 fan of the fps genre. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: whiteboard91
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 20, 2007 11:55 am PT
Review:  Graphics: 9.5/10
  
  Awesome graphics and effects. Very realistic explosions, blood, etc. And superb detail in the entire 
 game environment. Brilliant physics aswell with fully destructible vehicles and the ability to 
 actually shoot people through walls, the second being something that I'm pretty sure has never 
 been seen in a pc fps before!
  
  Sound: 10/10
  
  The sound is incredible! Music is just.. well.. AWESOME and fits every situation perfectly. Radio 
 transmissions are well scripted and the cries of your fellow soldiers in the battlefield really 
 add atmosphere to the game.
  
  Gameplay: 9/10
  
  Gameplay is fast-paced in general although there are plenty of times when, contrary to most fps 
 games of today, you actually have to use tactics and cover to hide from enemy gun emplacements 
 and onslaughts. The ability to shoot through walls definitely adds something to gameplay as you 
 will find during many a gunfight that enemies will hide in the building across from you, and aside 
 from chucking 'nades through the windows you can actually shoot them through the walls leaving 
 them with nowhere to hide. Of course that does bring a disadvantage with it - you can be shot through 
 walls aswell. The addition of a couple of sniping missions adds a more tactical approach too as 
 when armed with a sniper rifle and a pistol you can't just run in and blast the crap out of everyone 
 in sight. Again, a great new addition. Overall gameplay is very solid and exciting, although very 
 linear, and should keep you entertained for a while... that is, until the single player campaign 
 ends and sadly you don't have to wait very long for that.
  
  Value: 8/10
  
  Worth every penny of the 30 you pay, so long as you're prepared to play the exciting single player 
 campaign a second time or if you plan on playing multi player (which I haven't yet tried out) . 
 The game is quite a way off the pace when it comes to length, taking me about 6 - 8 hours to complete 
 i reckon, but it's really worth re-playing and provides plenty of entertainment and excitement 
 each time.
  
  Overall: 9.1
  
  Brilliant game and a really refreshing twist to the Call of Duty series - in my opinion there are 
 too many WW2 shooters about and not enough modern day shooters... at least, ones which don't involve 
 aliens or zombies. And that's what I love most about this game: it's solid modern day action which, 
 as far as I'm aware has only been seen before in Battlefield 2. Buy this game - it's a good'un. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SacredKing
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 20, 2007 3:31 am PT
Review:  This game is great the graphics are so realistic and the attention to detail on the guns and marks 
 on the wall are great, defiantly the best in the series so far, the multiplayer maps are are great, 
 some maps are in the single player campaign and some are new and exiting. There are many servers 
 witch are run by EA which are fun to play, others are run by other people, if you play online make 
 sure you go on a server with punk buster of you may find hackers. Also there are ranks and every 
 few ranks you unlock a new gun, there are also challenges for all guns which when completed will 
 allow you to attach a scope or silencer or red dot site, there are also different camouflages for 
 your guns, when all challenges for that gun are done you can have gold weapons. if you don't have 
 this game buy it, you wont regret it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tmac2061990
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 20, 2007 1:49 am PT
Review:  First of all i dont usually play pc games online so multiplay is unkown for me. Modern Warfare is 
 far the best game when we see the fps genre till 5 of hovember.1-st mission was so exciting that 
 i managed to get an xbox360 and play the game again (just for brilliant 1st-mission_) . Call Of Duty 
 4 is basically fresh material, you dont see that very often, amazing graphic, smart AI (which is very 
 important) , gameplay with standards of next-gen games...
  Length of single player campaign is short but it brings you everysingle bit of the game that developers 
 wanted to give you, difficulty isn bad at all - im a expirienced user i played the game on hardest 
 ai and it felt ok, but all those that select any lower case am afraid it isnt going to be pleasent 
 expirience.
  Anyway im giving this game straight 10 because it is the most beautiful game on the market, and 
 although i dont play now too much games this game managed to grab me -i played it till dawn (the 
 storyline elements combined with latest graphic effects are blow to yuor brains :) )
  
  All in one i think this game deserves to be on your shelves, and i wanna thank sierra for making 
 a hell of a game!!!!!!!!!!
  
  Peace
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: vunacar
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 19, 2007 3:25 pm PT
Review:  All i can say is this: if you like playing multiplayer and have a good connection you just have 
 to buy COD4 and experience best, most realistic and heart-stopping multiplayer that hasn't been 
 seen in quite some time! 
  If you don't like playing multiplayer or have a bad or no connection then buying COD4 probably 
 isn't a best choice since it can be beaten in 3 to 5 hours, although of high quality my opinion 
 is that single player just isn't worth your money and you will be better of with buying some other 
 game.
  
  
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
  
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: king_loei
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 15, 2008 7:22 pm PT
Review:  
  Look. Let's face it. CoD is a successful series. And it's good! I've never played more balanced 
 shooters! I mean, solid graphics, great noise, and some good gameplay. But... It's the same gameplay 
 over and over. Sure, CoD 4 introduced some cool stuff to the series; shooting through thin objects, 
 helicopters, perks, and flashbangs. And that's all good! But I was a tiny bit, just the weensiest 
 bit disappointed with the game. 
  
  For one, it just didn't have the good feeling of CoD 1. With such memorable moments as the charge 
 up to Red Square, and planting the flag at the Reichstag, CoD 1 was genius, pure and simple. You 
 felt great when you beat stuff, and it had a HUGE amount of replay value, even though it was fairly 
 linear. CoD 4 was kind of disappointing in that way. You felt bad. I mean, sure, the graphics are 
 the best to date, but you just didn't feel the same amount of acheivement as CoD 1. It was a depressing 
 game. And the CoD series is about heroism, and cinematics, and everything we've been taught a hero 
 is, and the games feel damn good to beat.
  
  None of that here.
  
  Granted, the storyline was the best yet, but not as good as some other games. 
  
  My only other 
 complaint is the game, or lack of it. It's just too damn short. I got the game, and I beat it on 
 hardened in just a matter of hours. Sure, I know the CoD series off by heart, but seriously, the 
 fact that playing the other games lets you intimatley know this one just goes for the lack of brand 
 new ideas. Back on topic. It was just really short. It was over, and I found myself sitting here 
 thinking, "Ok. Next?"
  
  All in all, it's worth getting if you're a fan of the series. Otherwise, just get CoD 1. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ChauncyX
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 19, 2007 6:59 am PT
Review:  There are a lot of positives to COD4. great graphics, innovative game play, good map design, fun 
 perks, solid game modes. But when you combine all of these elements together, you get a game that 
 depends more upon computer generated kills than kills by the individual player. Basically, the 
 sum isn't greater than it's parts. There are 2 perks in particular, "Last Stand" and "Martydom" 
 that are absolutely ridiculous. These perks are basically computer generated "Crutches" that diminish 
 the overall skill involved in COD4 game play. If you kill someone in Martydom, that person will 
 blow up upon death, thus, in most instances killing you and negating your skill in killing said 
 noob. Last Stand gives a mortally wounded player the ability to fire a side arm for 10-15 seconds 
 and let them kill the attacker who wounded them. Play against these features on a map of 32 players 
 and it gets old. Last Stand doesn't bother me as much as Martydom, which seems to be flouting the 
 ideals of the very people in the real world who are determined to destroy us. A bit heavy I know, 
 but I still think it is the worst part of an otherwise sold game. The Helicopter & Air Strike perks 
 are cool in concept, but can become excessive in application; play a map with constant arty and 
 helicopter strikes and you'll know what I mean.
  The maps overall are great in this game. Some are simply fantastic, there is great variety, and 
 I would say there are only 2 really that feel average at worst., but not a bad one in the lot.
 
  The weapons and perks combine for a lot of fun-except for my aforementioned negative ones. 
  The ranking system is fun and reasonable. You won't have to play for months to get certain weapons 
 or perks, and most leave you wanting more or anticipating how you'll employ them in game.
  To sum, COD4 is well designed arcade style multi-FPS that is worth getting but might not have long 
 range value for people more interested in games that require skill and tactics. Hardcore gamers 
 will probably find it lacking after a while. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Steve_Harris
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 18, 2007 7:36 pm PT
Review:  I have always loved FPS games more than any other genre, and forgive my snobbery when I say that 
 IMO you can only appreciate the full experience of a good shooter on a PC with mouse+keyboard. 
 The FPS was born on the PC and it is my hope it will continue to flourish. 
  The main problem I have always had with FPS games (which I\'m sure you will all agree) is the repetitiveness 
 of the tasks + gameplay. IE - find the key, open the door, shoot the bad guys, blow up the bridge 
 etc etc etc. All while gradually being given bigger guns and in some cases better abilities. The 
 Call Of Duty series has always been one of my favorites because of the way it deals with this - 
 immersive + intense gameplay with the idea of making you feel more like a soldier as part of a 
 machine than a one-man Arnie Army. 
  When I went out to buy CoD4 I was expecting more of the same, excellent gameplay and intense battles 
 where I can turn the volume up to full and really have some fun! I am happy to say this is exactly 
 what I got, but what i wasn\'t expecting was the absolutely fantastic story!! 
  I found myself panicking during the first mission as the radio squawked \"fast movers are inboud, 
 GET THE HELL OUT OF THERE\" Leaning and ducking with the screen as I dodged falling pipes and exploding 
 gas mains I followed the shadow of the curiously named \"Gaz\" to the top of the sinking tanker 
 where the chinook was skillfully hovering, waiting for our escape. As the helicopter pulled away 
 just as i was coming to the door I actually found myself shouting WAIT! I hit the spacebar as hard 
 as I could as if it would have some effect on my jump and then just as I thought it was back to 
 the load game screen, Captain Price jumps forward and pulls me on-board - totally exhilarating 
 set-piece, something that I feel is missing from a lot of games today. 
  From the dark and moody stealth missions with your SAS team to the all out warfare of middle eastern 
 streets with your US marine buddies, this was a rollercoaster of action. You will be blown out 
 of the sky on more than one occasion, pull a helicopter pilot from certain death as the enemy approaches 
 in a delicious nod to Black Hawk Down, and in another fantastic set piece, lay deadly still in 
 a crop field as a full enemy platoon literally passes inches from your face. I also found the ending 
 very moving -for those of you that have completed the game I hope you agreed and for those who 
 haven\'t I wont spoil it for you but it really made me wonder if it was all worth it. (By that 
 I mean the whole war+bloodshed thing, not playing the game lol)
  The emotional attachment to your comrades grows with each mission as you become familiar with them 
 and learn more about the story and if you can suspend your disbelief a little when Captain Price 
 tells you to GO GO GO before being shot 15 times in the head and blown up with an RPG and then 
 asking you \"what the hell are you playing at??\" before briskly continuing his attack then you 
 will have a lot of fun with this game! 
  Yes, the gameplay is no different from any other FPS, the friendly AI is crap and its all been 
 done before, but for me this game is like a good action film - it says \"so what if you\'ve seen 
 a helicopter blow up before, it still looks frickin sweet\" 
  Immerse yourself in the fantastic story and have fun! Its a hell of a ride ;) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BlackTargetmark
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 18, 2007 12:53 am PT
Review:  Call of Duty series has been known as a WW II FPS that might be able to rival Medal of Honor series, 
 now in its 4th game it brings us to the present-day setting, leaving its WW II background (though 
 a character is still repeatedly reappearing) .
  The gameplay is solid, but technically it's no more than a run-n-gun experience. Yes I know that's 
 the point of FPSs, right? Well okay there're missions that impressively thrilling but the point 
 is, it's just all FPS stuff. Still no new innovation. However, the aspects of gameplay are seriously 
 solid, like the weaponry, the setting, the enemies, etc. and what I like is all enemy will drop 
 weapon that, nearly no matter the circumstances, you can pick up. The weapons are amazing too. 
 Detailed, I can say. Also such features like wall-through-firing and exploding vehicles are firstly 
 simple and logical, but realistic and effective.
  Modern Warfare offers us an experience of warfare in a smooth and beautiful environments if you 
 got a decent PC for it. The sunlights are dazzling, even it made me sweat like I'm really in the 
 deserts of Arabian Peninsula. On the contrary, I even wear sweaters (just kidding) for the Russian 
 missions, it seems so dark and cold. Vegetations and strucures, though only backgrounds are designed 
 in an immersive detail. What more is in special effect visions such as the NVG view and the flashbanged 
 effect. Impressive, seriously.
  The sounds in the battlefield are also easy-listening (well at least for soldiers) and detailed. 
 If you listen closely, we can differ an enemy's weapon by its sound. The voices of the characters 
 are also good. Everyone has their own accent and style.
  It's a good game to play if you want to spend the year end. It might be short, but you can do a 
 multiplayer, right?
  gameplay: 7 graphics: 9 sound: 9
  overall: 8.5 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SpitLead
Rating: 6.5
Date: Dec 17, 2007 11:54 pm PT
Review:  The single player game is very good. And there is no question the game has incredible graphics 
 (the smoke is astounding) and sound. My hat is off to the design team on this account. However, 
 these days it's more about the multi-player aspect of the game and this is where the game just 
 is a huge let down, in fact its crap, C-R-A-P (to use the highly technical term) . I had high expectations 
 about this part of the game which ended in a big let down. The level of realism there is practically 
 non-existent. There are no tactics involved and its all about being a stupid frag fest. If I'd 
 wanted that I'd have gone out and bought the next installment of Quake or Unreal Tournament. Grenade 
 launcher shots that are a perfect strike from a full city block away, bullets that can penetrate 
 a 3 foot thick cinder block wall to kill you, unloading half of a 30 round clip into someone and 
 they don't die, respawns of the enemy right on top of you, enemy helicopters that NEVER miss. I 
 could go on and on. It's just crap. But the worst part is that you have to gain ranks while you 
 work up the ladder. Gaining ranks get you better weapons and perks. However, as a lowly corporal 
 you're thrown into the online fight against 5-star generals and colonels and captains, and other 
 higher ranks. To use a term from World of Warcraft, these would be in the category of so called 
 twink players. Players that are much better equipped and as such usually dominate. So you're subjected 
 to round after round of humiliation to continue to gain ranks, and better weapons. So, with no 
 tactics invovled it's all about who has the better gun and who can put the pipper on whom faster. 
 I'm going to stop wasting my time and switch to Battlefield 2. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nagol726
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 17, 2007 5:41 pm PT
Review:  The obvious is that the game has a detailed world far superior to the rest of the call of duty 
 games. with a new settings it gives you a whole new game using the same fast pased call of duty 
 1 gameplay.
  
  Although the graphics are great, the games lacks the feeling of the previous call of duty games 
 that was so addictive. the world war II settings where interesting and incredibly real (im not 
 same this one isnt) . They took a big step going 50 years ahead of where they where. This game gives 
 u a solid story with great multi player. the new level up system is fantastic giving you a variaty 
 of upgrades and new commands such as air strikes. The single player is exiting keeping you interested 
 until the end. For the most part this game is great, (sound, graphics, gameplay) . i still think its 
 hard getting used to modern warfare. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fpShorty
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 17, 2007 5:05 pm PT
Review:  I have played this game for hours. The story was intense, and the graphics were amazing. But, wheres 
 the rest? I just played this game for a few hours and I'm done with the campaign already? Hmmm... 
 Even if you are a bad FPS player, you can beat this game (unless you are UBER bad) . The story is 
 short. You can beat this less than 5 hours. Well, at least it was fun. After the campaign that 
 we just beaten, we have some things unlocked! Arcade mode, and cheats. But, you need you get the 
 cheats by doing various things in the campaign. Arcade mode is fun! You get timed for the selected 
 mission and there are points earned for every single enemy you kill. There is just more than the 
 campaign, arcade mode, and cheats... there is the MULTIPLAYER! First of all, don't get pissed. There 
 are a lot I mean A LOT of better players when you start out. So if you are new to FPS, it's gonna 
 be a rough time out there. Once you get the hang of it though and own some people, it's a very 
 fun experience. I recommend you buy this game. It's just simply amazing you'll get a lot from the 
 single player and multiplayer. You'll love this game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shengxun
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 17, 2007 6:28 am PT
Review:  The moment i entered this game, i felt like it was so real. The graphics were superb and the special 
 effects are totally cool and awesome. So awesome and special i felt like i was in the battlefield 
 and i am in a battlefield. The music was nicely placed at the correct time to make me feel the 
 blood pumping through my veins right at the middle of the battlefield where i fought with my life. 
 Even small details like the blurring of the outside when you look through the sight of your rifle 
 to the ability to cook and toss back grenade made it o-so-special-and-awesome. The single player 
 campaign i have to say was the BEST experience i ever had. although short, the storyline is good 
 and i could do different things. From shooting a grenade launcher from the air ( This footage looks 
 absolutely realistic) , rescuing this pilot within a time frame and stopping a nuclear missile. 
 The multi player is fast paced and action-packed makes it not repetitive at all and different game 
 modes of more than 5. In my own opinion, Call of Duty 4 is the best shooter around. (Owns Crysis) 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ShatterStar77
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 16, 2007 10:19 am PT
Review:  I was a little iffy about Call of Duty stepping away from World War 2. But after playing CoD4, 
 I realize it carried over all the things I loved from the previous games. I don't have a top-of-the-line 
 system, but that dosent stop the game from looking great! I was really surprised how colorful and 
 immersive the graphics look. I play it on Med-High settings and it looks awesome. The gameplay 
 makes me feel like I am really there. Bullets whizzing by, teammates calling out and impressive 
 explosions all add to the realism that is Call of Duty.
  
  The multiplayer is fun and easy to jump into. I found it very easy to find a match to my liking 
 and get right into it. Watch out for overcrowding, anything more then 40 players seems like too 
 much for one map. The custom loadouts really enhance the games flexibility. And the different challenges 
 only add to the charm. Of course the only down side is the short campaign. But the story is so 
 immersive and well written that it really only needs to be this long. In the end, Call of Duty 
 4 is a must have. This game replaced Battlefield 2 as the dominant online FPS for me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spidy333
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 19, 2007 3:48 am PT
Review:  Frankly, I was simply nailed by this game. this one is one instant classic which is great blasting 
 fun with an immersive story.
  The game makes you believe that you are really in war with lot of enemies and different types of 
 attacks. When your team goes for ambushing enemies, they wont kill all of them and they wont die 
 either. You didnt feel that you are the one who is killing all of the enemies, COD4 strikes perfect 
 balance between AI and fun.
  Sure this is one hell of blasting fun even if it lasts for very short time indeed 5 hrs.... I played 
 the game in straight hours and i didnt felt any repetitiveness or boring things...
  the game is completely packed with the things that you wont and cant find in other first person 
 shooter games...
  Also the game has got pretty amount of humor in it.....
  
  --- A discussion between Gunner and TV operator in the mission Death From Above sounds like this.....
 
  "Follow the curved road" 
  "define the curved road"
  "its the one with the curve on it" 
  "is it the one with the curve on it?" 
  "yeah the one 
 with the curve" 
  "see the water tower" 
  "which water tower?" 
  "the water tower by the curved road" 
  "the water tower by the curved road?" 
  "yeah that water 
 tower" 
  "follwing the curved road ..."
  
  --- Another Sample from Penultimate mission where our guys hav to open a door to prevent some disastrous 
 thing from happening in a time limit....
  Captain Price: Cant you open that door any faster??
  Gaz: You can also lay hands on if it makes 
 you feel any better sir!!
  
  COD isnt just a game... its an experience which is worth it and shouldnt be missed by anyone...
 
  After completion wait until the credits... you will have a surprise....
  
  wE ArE gOinG HoT aNd wE aRe GoInG dEEp !!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Leozt
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 16, 2007 5:23 am PT
Review:  The intensity of the action, the deafening roar of the machines of war, the flaws of the guns, 
 explosions ... It's like living a movie, rather Infinity Ward has managed to recreate perfection 
 realism of modern warfare. The design of the missions complemented with cinematic touches that 
 have given a category COD4 superb. Excellent aspect graph, a deafening sound besides an excellent 
 score. They care with professionalism all aspects of the game, both as a graphic presentation and 
 the game runs which is a delicacy in mid-range systems. Using weapons AC-130 Spectre is superb. 
 We promised a unique experience with COD4 ... And they have been fully complied! I base my review 
 in the way of a singleplayer, which is superb. In multiplayer mode, it is something else ... Simply 
 the best game of the year.
  
  We are already waiting for an expansion ... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: saku_seraph
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 15, 2007 4:24 am PT
Review:  This game is not worth the 9 point score which gamespot hands out. More like 7,5 would be a realistic 
 score. ++++ Story line
  +++ AI
  ++++ Physics
  +++ Graphics
  
  My opinion is greatly affected by the fact that I mistakenly installed and played Crysis before 
 this game, and I think that Activision did a sloppy work compared to other games. they could have 
 done better.
  
  Character graphics were good, enviroment graphis were ok but lacked detail. Many repetitive effects 
 were applied, the character you play gets black out like 4 times in a similar fashion, everything 
 blurs out. Very good air mission were you get to target ground units, quite refreshing in deed. 
 ( you feel like god who hands out justice to the bad guys ) worth to buy? hmm..... worth to play? 
 Yes.. expect many hours of play? No 
::::::

::::::
UserName: benjy117
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 14, 2007 10:39 pm PT
Review:  Call of Duty 4 is the best FPS I have ever played period. The campaign is just amazing as it puts 
 you in the seat of some of the most intense combat you have ever seen and played. First off COD4 
 looks amazing and plays amazing. You first start off as a special British force's operative. Your 
 name is SOAP which is kinda funny but I believe the creators made it this way to mean that the 
 British to their work clean. While fighting with this squad of people you will be doing some interesting 
 tasks. You first start off in a training mission when you go through an obstacle course. You get 
 a grade on how well you do each time you finish it. It then selects the mode of difficulty for 
 you but you can change it if you like. The game play is somewhat played out like COD2 as far as 
 the controls. It's smooth and visually amazing. You are set out to find and save and informant 
 that is undercover. Then you are off doing so many multiple things I can't really name them all. 
 Though it's a little sad the US Marine character you play with dies in the campaign and you can 
 no longer play as the US FORCES. The weapons used are the same for either nationality. The story 
 line is by far one of the best I have seen in a shooter. It does get you caught up in the action 
 and scenes in the game. A
  
  In the end you will be amazed at the ending. I did see one glitch in the game where the of the 
 British forces stayed at a building and would not come out of it. I had to restart the level and 
 I was upset because I only had a few more seconds to go to be done with mission and I was playing 
 on veteran. The critics claim the campaign is short but not on veteran. It will take some time 
 to go through this game on veteran. More than 6 hours. I spent at least 16 playing on veteran and 
 there was not a moment where I thought it was repetitive. I give this game a 10 out of 10. This 
 is the first game I have ever rated this high. It is what I would call perfect or near perfect. 
 Those some don't tend to agree with me. This game had a lot packed into it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PFCBroccoli
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 13, 2007 7:19 pm PT
Review:  It took them a while, but Infinity Ward has finally published a game that has managed to finally 
 capture the original Call of Duty feel. The question is, will it also capture the Call of Duty 
 fun? Call of Duty 4: Modern Warfare is set in a near futuristic, Right From the Headlines plot 
 line, in which easily hated baddies try to get easily accessible nukes and its your job to stop 
 them. The games single player mode drops you right into the action, with a deadly cargo ship raid 
 that raises more questions than answers, and it doesnt stop there. The game catapults you along 
 a twisting and turning action thriller, with you filling the shoes of both a Marine and an SAS 
 member as they jump from hot spot to hot spot to stop the games conclusion from being a mushroom 
 cloud. The problems, though, start almost as suddenly. You land on the cargo ship, and get blocked 
 almost from the start by an AI that doesnt like doors. The problems dont stop with a bad pathing 
 AI, though. You enemies, although blind as bats with firearms, are grenade throwing all-stars. 
 Youll die by grenade more times than any other method combined during your gameplay experience. 
 This wont annoy you too badly, though, because you wont have long to dwell on your bad teammates 
 and grenade tossing enemies. The game bolts its way to its cheesy ending in slightly under 5 hours. 
 Thats right: Five hours. For a 50 dollar game, the single player almost feels like a 20 dollar 
 expansion pack. At least the single player is very pretty to look at.... sort of. Infinity Ward 
 didnt develop a different game (graphics wise) for the PC, so your PC version is only slightly 
 more spiffy looking than the XBox 360 or PS3 versions. Not only that, but some of the recent additions 
 to computer gaming seem to have been left out. There is almost no physics. Your character doesnt 
 create any shadows, and the lighting only seems spectacular in certain preset areas. Every character 
 looks shiny up close, and they only have a few pre-set animations (One of the funniest parts of 
 the game is to see the friendly AI open a chain-link gate as if it somehow blocked him from sight.) 
 Its almost as if the developers went into a coma 4 years ago, just woke up, and merely updated 
 the surface graphics before shipping the game. The multiplayer manages to redeem most of the games 
 flaws, though. Up to 25 players on each side duke it out in up to 10 different game modes, and, 
 at its height, the game is blast to play. Before you get into a game, you can chose your weapon 
 loadout and three perks, which are slight boosts to your character that make you different than 
 every other character out there. The games weapons are balanced rather well for multiplayer, and 
 even newbies will feel they have a fighting chance against those who have unlocked all the weapons 
 in the game. Sadly, multiplayer isnt problem free. Getting into a game is an ordeal, as you will 
 time out while waiting to connect to a majority of your multiplayer games. Once you get, youre 
 liable to get randomly kicked by punkbuster every once in a while, where youll have to manually 
 refresh your server list (The game doesnt refresh the server list by itself.... ever. You must do 
 it every time, even when you start the game up for the first time.) If you manage to survive timing 
 out and getting randomly kicked by punkbuster, youll run into a few other problems. Some maps are 
 HORRIBLY inbalanced, there is very little teamwork, and some game modes just dont seem to work. 
 If you can get past all these flaws, though, Multiplayer is an undeniably fun experience. So, the 
 original question: has the game captured the original CoD fun? The answer is a yes... mostly. The 
 game could of probably used another couple of months of tinkering. If you can get past that, though, 
 the game will deliver. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lik_king
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 13, 2007 2:12 am PT
Review:  This game is amazing. In one mission you are a sniper sneaking into a building to snipe someone 
 and the next you are in this battlefield with unlimited number of enemy and destructable environment. 
 In this gameyou are like a real soldier. You must think fast and move in the right time. Bullets 
 flying and also grenades. The AI is smart. Standing in one place exposed, then you are dead meat.
 
  
  You know..... words just couldn't describe the experiance in playing this game. You must try it 
 on your own. Oh, and remember.. stop war and love peace (in real life of course) .
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: fast2ghl
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 12, 2007 1:40 pm PT
Review:  So I have played COD1 and COD2 (skipped 3 cause it sucked) and enjoyed both of them. I am NOT a 
 COD fanboy, I don't live for COD like some of these people on hear do, actually if you wanna know 
 why I play video games at all, its because of games like FORZA 1 and 2 and Gran Turismo...... I 
 love racing games and the good ones keep me coming back to play..... (I know that is completely 
 un-related) but basically I play other games in between the racing and so FPS have always been 
 something I resort too when not racing.
  
  I have to say I have never, I don't think in my 20 years ever played a FPS quite as entertaining, 
 well written, well built/designed/made, or well executed and fun as COD4. OMG is all I kept saying 
 when playing the game. Every level is entertaining as hell, it is scripted yes, but the first time 
 through is just mind blowing, it's like actually playing out the role of the lead actor in a big 
 budget Hollywood film! Ton's of action, ton's of surprises, just simply incredible.
  
  STORY:
  Amazing, what more can I say, and I actually won't say more because its too good to even 
 give away, deals with nuclear missles.............. that is all I'm saying....
  
  SOUND:
  incredible, weapons sound great, music is top notch, sound effects are supurb and it all comes 
 together to create an astounding gaming experience.
  
  GRAPHICS:
  Although not as good as Crysis (nothing is right now) COD4 still manages to impress quite a bit 
 with what I would call the next best thing after Crysis. It has a very drap and wartorn feel in 
 levels like Chernobyl which is awesome as it suits the game really well, also tons of tweak options 
 available to get it to run smooth for you, although you really don't have to as I maxed everything 
 out and it runs really smooth....... I have an 8800GT though so that probably helps :D
  
  CONTROL:
  Perfect........ enough said
  
  ACTION:
  Plenty.......... and of the tons of action 
 there is its really fast paced and well executed like everything else, you never get bored with 
 this game while playing
  
  REPLAY VALUE:
  Huge, the minute I finished the campaign, I started again!
  
  MULTIPLAYER:
  Wouldn't know, 
 I generally don't play multiplayer anything on games, unless of course there racing games, but 
 yeah I never tried it with COD4, although from what I have read and seen it looks amazing as well.... 
 So if multiplayer is your thing then you'll no doubt enjoy
  
  LENGTH OF GAME (SINGLEPLAYER) :
  You may have heard how COD4 is short. Well thats not a lie it 
 is, and the entire time I was playing it I kept hoping that the next level wouldn't be the last, 
 but I knew I couldn't have a good thing for too long. That aside the short 5 hours that the campaign 
 is is and incredible way to spend those 5 hours, and you will not regret it. Easily the best short 
 campaign ever, actually I would be willing to say it is probably the best campaign in a game ever...... ever!
 
  
  The bottom line with COD4 is that it is quite simply a master piece of FPS. I have never had as 
 much fun with a FPS (Crysis included) as I have with this game, simply on the edge of the seat 
 gameplay and if your looking for something to keep you entertained..... albeit for only about 5 
 hours, then look no further then COD4 because it's an absolute blast!!!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: djpetitte
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 18, 2007 7:38 am PT
Review:  BF2142 is a better fps modern war combat multiplayer in my opinion and its over a year old. A lot 
 of the features from cod4 are taken strait from bf 2142 (the UAV, the map looks identical to BF, 
 air strikes, the ranking system, pointing out enemies and more) plus there's no drivable vehicles 
 in cod4. In bf 2142 you can do everything in cod4 times two. The single player is too short and 
 the multiplayer is nothing I havent seen before, it left me just wanting more out of it, like customizable 
 classes or dog tags when you knife someone or a longer single player! Its a good game to say the 
 least! Not great like all these wanna be console gamers make it out to be! True hardcore pc fps 
 gamers laugh at a game like this (becuase its hyped so much) , with a half ass single player and 
 a multiplayer that has nothing new top offer. Im telling you if your looking for intense war action, 
 you should play 2142 in a full server of 64 people, with an actual front lines and many vehicles 
 including walkers, tanks, apc's and battle choppers, air stikes, uav's, and eveyone with there 
 own costumized class and a squad system that cant be beat because you can only chat with your squad 
 and the squad leader can chat with the commander makes for some serious strategy, and so much more, 
 theres just so much to do in bf! it doesnt get any closer to modern combat! and still lookes way 
 better on my pc than cod4 does on my xbox360 (which is hooked up to hdmi on a 52 dlp) - the textures 
 are seriously like four years old and wheres the real physics? I like to see bodies flying higher 
 than buildings hahah GO GO GO! FRAG OUT! ENEMY INFANTRY SPOTTED! MAN DOWN! BFF- battlefield forever! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LPXGirl
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 12, 2007 10:23 am PT
Review:  I've played allot of World War II games and some modern war games. When i first found out that 
 Call of Duty 4 was being released the first thing that popped in my head was this Oh yes another 
 thrilling experience on huah wadi da navy/marines/soldiers vs evildoers". It took me some time 
 to finally decide to give this new attempt on warfare a try.
  Basically you are put in the position of British SAS Soap MacTavish and an American Marine Sgt 
 Jackson . As usual you have to complete several missions like go to the x marks the spot or defend 
 the y region. Nothing out of the ordinary general warfare bussines is it? But Call of Duty 4 manages 
 to surpass several pessimistic expectations. When i played Call of Duty 1 and 2 i didn't feel much 
 like being in a war. I felt like a robot running in different directions killing every mother married 
 nazzy and loving vodka rusky and at the end of a mission i would do the victory dance for my bloody 
 success.
  Call of Duty 4 tries a different approach and it gives you another feeling like: rage, courage, 
 compassion for some characters that you will meet along the storyline, hatered for the existence 
 of the word war, and so on. There are 3 missions where these feelings were widely present. One 
 of these is at the end of the US Marine mission when the Nuclear missile is launched and in the 
 aftermath Sgt Jackson is crawling out of the crash helicopter. The scenery was magnificent (from 
 the graphical point of view) and horrible (from the ethical point of view) . Imagine dust moving 
 in a deep silent city, where all you can see is the burning flames and radioactive clouds and you 
 have lost all your senses in one minute. Infinity Ward has manged to emphasis on something that 
 many games have forgotten. What am i trying to send out as feeling/message/idea with this game? 
 The producers ambition? New innovative graphix? Or an inspiring idea perhaps? I can truly say that 
 after i finished the game i realized that we can't possibly comprehend the notion of war, when 
 we are sitting in a cosy home and a comfy chair...
  Anyhow moving on the sound and graphix are nothing i have ever seen in a Warfare FPS. A grenade 
 explodes and your head is actually ringing. Bullets fly off and all you can feel is tension. The 
 enhanced visuals are more then suffice to make a memorable journey through Azerbaijan or Russia 
 or the grand piece of them all Chernobyl. My father told me how this city was after the accident 
 and i couldn't have done a more perfect leap in time though the eyes of Captain Price in his mission.
 
  
  There are the occasional bugs in Call of Duty 4. The game kinda lacks some Team AI. Basically my 
 superior won't take action if i don't. It's like i am the leader and he is just a smart character 
 with a cute British or grave American accent. On the other hand the enemy AI is excellent executed. 
 They will try to flank, they will take cover and they will have no mercy in executing you.
  Overall this FPS shouldn't be missed by gamers (especially hard-cores one and warfare addicts) . 
 The only bad things that i can point out in this game are the the poorly implement Team AI and 
 the lack of originality in story and missions, but you would probably say Hey it's war, what the 
 hell do you want? Pamela Anderson staring as VIP?" Probably you are right but the fact still remains. 
 Call of Duty 4 has survived and managed to grasp 1st place in the majority of game reviews because 
 of the feeling it transmits, it is something never done before and my hats off to Infinity and 
 Activision for doing so.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: _Fallakka
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 12, 2007 8:12 am PT
Review:  Just got this game and its amazing. I was simply left without words... this is the best FPS game 
 i have ever experienced. Graphics are a very big delicious candy for the eyes, sounds and music 
 are awesome too. gameplay is again best i have experienced for a FPS. Not just the fun in doing 
 the missions, also the realistic feel to it... It literally takes you in the game starting from 
 the very first mission thats situated on a boat where you end up tilting yourself as the boat tilts. 
 
  
  Havent tried the multiplayer yet (gotta become good in the singleplayer first :P) but i'm sure 
 it will be a great treat! i recommend this game to whoever likes FPS even a little bit. I also 
 didnt play any Call of Duty games before this and it didnt effect me much (as far as i know) so 
 i suggest you just try this game out even if you're not a fan of the series (yet) and i think you 
 should try it even if you're not into FPS... Call of Duty 4 is a MUST to all gamers... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CrowUnleashed
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 12, 2007 7:18 am PT
Review:  I have to say when I first heard that the new COD game was going to take place in a modern era 
 I was a bit apprehensive. I've been a big fan of the COD series since the first game, and enjoy 
 the WW2 era missions that the past games offered.
  All my worries disappeared upon playing the short but sweet demo, and I simply had to have this 
 new game. Infinity Ward have done a brilliant job adapting to the new era of war with all the new 
 weapons, features and missions. Game moves along at a quick pace, so you aren't really left standing 
 still for too long.
  
  Multiplayer mode is a nice change from the all-land based levels of COD2, with 1 map taking place 
 on a cargo ship, unfortunatly only on the open deck, you can't go into the bowels of the ship and 
 sneak to the enemy side and launch an attack from another angle.
  
  The customisable weapons is a nice and welcome touch to the game. Having the ability to put a better 
 sight on your assault rifle, or even a grenade launcher is a good thing to have, especially on 
 chaotic multiplayer levels.
  
  Very addictive game since buying it and I play more on multiplayer than I do the single player 
 missions. At this time I'm only a lowly 1st Leutenant, but moving swifty through the ranks. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tomerkvs
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 12, 2007 4:54 am PT
Review:  call of duty is first of all fun!!!, its not really hard, but gives you the feeling that you are 
 in a war zone, very fast and intense game play.
  ones you get started you cant stop playing, and you wish that it will never finish unfortunately 
 it ends very fast, 
  never the less i enjoyed this game for every second that i played,
  if you like first person shooters then pleasure is guaranty.
  
  the game is always on the move.
 
  sound effects are very good, you need a good sound system to enjoy it, i did, 
  you don't need a super computer to enjoy this game, surprisingly it runs well. on most average computers
 
  as i wrote before don't all you FPS players don't miss this one!
  enjoy 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: rush171
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 11, 2007 10:35 pm PT
Review:  We're going deep, we're going hard.
  
  Talented developer Infinity Ward's creation Call of Duty and Call of Duty 2 has gained numerous 
 awards for their unbeatable authenticity in sound works, gameplay and graphics. But the third installment 
 in the series was developed by Treyarch and brought nothing but disappointment to gamers. Let's 
 face it: WWII games were getting boring as days passed by. Therefore when publisher Activision 
 and developer Infinity Ward announced that they were moving forward to a modern time-frame for 
 the fourth installment, Call of Duty 4: Modern Warfare, gamers rejoiced.
  
  Crew Expendable!
  
  When you start the game you won't notice anything special. You'll walk 
 through a training level to get to know about controls. And you'll meet Captain Price, who'll question 
 about the strangeness of your name! After this the action begins. You'll recognize the awesomeness 
 of this game within 5 minutes as a helicopter takes you to a ship in the middle of the sea. The 
 graphics will scream to you "this is next-generation!!"!! Sound works were always a good treat 
 in COD. If you have a 5:1 sound system, then you'll have some issues in hand with your neighbors! 
 You'll get lost in this game. But the dream will be short as the game clocks at only 6 to 8 hours. 
 And then you'll start playing it again!!
  
  No fighting in the War Room!
  
  I don't want to spoil the fun for you by describing too much. But know this; COD4 is a game that 
 you'll never forget. The game is so cool, so cinematic that it can rival any Hollywood action film 
 ! You'll experience the whole game from a first person view. All of the cut scenes are real-time 
 and viewed from first person view too. The animations are breathtakingly realistic and the Artificial 
 Intelligence of the enemy is very good. They will flank you, confuse you and throw you back the 
 grenade that you've just thrown at them! You'll play this game from the perspective of three different 
 persons: Sgt. John 'Soap' Mactavish (British 22nd Special Air Service Regiment operative in Russia) , 
 Sgt. Paul Jackson (American 1st Force Recon operative in the Middle East) and Captain Price in 
 his young years (a flashback in Pripyat, Ukraine, an abandoned city within the Chernobyl Zone of 
 Alienation) .
  
  Shock and Awe!
  
  This is the perfect war-game. It's not your run-in-the-mill FPS. Go too far from your team, try 
 to be a hero; You die. The difficulty level is very balanced. There are four difficulty modes. 
 I suggest everyone to start the game at 'Regular' mode or higher to experience the game at its 
 best. You can carry only two weapons at the same time. So select your weapons carefully. Ammunitions 
 aren't a problem. You'll have ****load of weapons to choose from! You can steal any weapon from 
 your dead foes. They won't mind! Some weapons have a grenade launcher installed. You have flashbangs 
 and grenades at your disposal. Use them creatively to attain the best result! You can press 1 or 
 2 to quickly switch weapons. Switching weapons is always faster than reloading. And if an enemy 
 is very close, press V to execute a quick slash of knife. While playing the game you'll never feel 
 alone. You'll feel like being a part of a team at war. You can call air strikes in some missions 
 as well. 
  
  Modern Warfare
  
  Call of Duty 4 has a strong singleplayer mode with many unlockable cheats and rendering modes. 
 There's an Arcade mode that needs your attention after you finish the game. But the game's most 
 attractive feature is the multiplayer mode. I don't know why all of the Dhaka city's gaming caf's 
 aren't being crowded with people playing it yet. Beside the Deathmatch and CTF, you have Free-for-All, 
 Search and Destroy, Headquarters, Sabotage, Domination etc gameplay modes. But what makes the play 
 interesting is a feature called perks. These are some special powers that a player can select at 
 the start of a game. E. g. Martyrdom perk let's you drop a grenade at the time of you death so that 
 you and your killer can both die at the same time!! These powers make the game even more enjoyable 
 as each individual's power is anyone's guess.
  
  Game over!
  
  Pros: Addictive gameplay, Awesome graphics, Stylish presentation, Challenging A. I. , Amazing level-design, 
 Very good audio works, Great multiplayer modes, Good replay value .
  
  Cons: Singleplayer mode is short (6-8 hours) , Uninspiring story.
  
  Call of Duty 4: Modern 
 Warfare is the best cinematic first person shooter . A lot of them tried it but only this one nailed 
 it ! It's so great that you'll be left awestruck after finishing the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ThresherJ
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 11, 2007 8:31 pm PT
Review:  The boyz at Infinity Ward have accomplished the most amazing feat known to man... 
  
  They have killed my desire to play anything else!
  
  I have Crysis, Guitar Hero III, Counter 
 Strike Source, Hellgate London, Overlord and all kinds of other games but I can't seem to break 
 my addiction to COD4 long enough to play more than a half hour of anything else!!!
  
  First off, the Single player is just Epic. The visuals are absolutely stunning. With all the clamor 
 of the choice to stick with DirectX 9 and not go to DirectX 10, I think they pushed that engine 
 right to the brink. There's not much more in DX10 that they could've done! It looks fantastic!
 
  
  The story wraps you up immediately. Although I did feel a little bit like a wimp playing as a Brit 
 named, "Soap," (getting saved by Price numerous times) but he proved himself in the end. The characters 
 in this game just feel right. You grow attached to them although I found myself occasionally screaming 
 at my comrades when they'd toss grenades as I was charging... but what can ya do? :P And when a 
 certain character dies, I think I almost cried... I won't spoil it for anyone, but man... My heart 
 was racing and I couldn't help but be completely PISSED at that douche of a terrorist... 
  
  *Ahem*
  
  The mutiplayer is where this game shines. And it's what brings me back everytime 
 I power on my rig. 
  The Leveling system and Perks make it so addictive. The only thing lacking is the "Prestige Mode" 
 that the console counterparts have. When you get to LVL 55 the only thing to do is start another 
 profile. Or just have an incredible time OWNING people with all your unlocked weapons.
  
  The maps are all enjoyable for certain gametypes. Every once in a while I'll get a map and gametype 
 together that just don't click with me but not often. Everything plays like a dream and the only 
 time I don't have fun while I'm playing is someone on my team thinks it's funny to go on a team 
 killing spree.... ~:-| Other than that flawless.
  
  BUY THIS GAME. PLAY THIS GAME. 
  Unless you have a life outside of your computer that you want to keep intact. 
  
  I find myself 
 thinking about COD4 while I'm working and at school... Saying, "Man I just wanna go home and pop 
 some Spetznaz, and knife some SAS..."
  
  LOVE IT. :D
  
  I 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Luiggi_DiMaggio
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 25, 2008 3:57 pm PT
Review:  The game who make a refresh of one of the best war series, the firsts games kick the Medal of 
 Honor Ass, When Moh star to be repetitive, CoD make a jump into the new era, and make a really 
 great jump,, this game is too addictive, with, one of the best graphics you can find,, (maybe behind 
 Crysis, and Moh: Airbone-   for me the best graphics i saw) a great story (but to short too) , that 
 remind me Tom Clancy storys,, (with littles gags to Black Hawk Down Movie) , and when you think 
 you can`t invent nothing new in the wasted genre of Fps, came CoD 4 in which you can shoot from 
 Helicopters with Infra red Vision from The sky, or see how you be executed by arabians, or look 
 how a bomb explote in front of you (i dont going to say more for no f*ck your experience, and i 
 not going to say what class of bomb) .. the multyplayer is really fun,, and is going to be played 
 for a long long time,, but i dont know,, i like much more Team Fortress 2, but you always going 
 to find guys to play Cod4 in multiplayer,,,,
  
  One of the best games of 2007, and a wannabe for all Fps fan, but if you like only Sonic,, you 
 can star play Fps from here.
  
  
  Let the force be whit you young padawan.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Matt8938
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 11, 2007 10:58 am PT
Review:  This game overall is by far the best game of 2007. Yes, the single player was somewhat short, but 
 to me that is what made it great. The designers didn't bother with and extra unneeded stuff. The 
 story is constant action, there are almost no dull parts that i can remember. Not only is the single 
 player in CoD4 amazing, but the multiplayer is so addictive it's ridiculous. It stays true to its 
 FPS roots while incorporating a great new RPG style aspect. The fact that you can level up and 
 that you get new guns and camos as you gain levels make the game that much more addicting. This 
 game is what an FPS should be. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SadExchange
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 11, 2007 8:02 am PT
Review:  Finally breaking away from the World War II content that most first person shooters seemed to be 
 stuck on for the past few years, Infinity Ward has come back with a new entry in their iron clad 
 series that jumps ahead to present day to try and give the player a new experience. Releasing on 
 November 5th of 2007, just in time for the holiday shoppers, Infinity Ward with Call of Duty 4: 
 Modern Warfare, try to give the player an all around experience with an intense single-player campaign 
 and an evenly intensified multiplayer component that has longevity and staying power to last for 
 quite a while, but can they pull it off?
  
  Much like previous Call of Duty games, you're able to play a couple different soldiers throughout 
 the campaign. The story is more intense and situations are dire more than in than the previous 
 installments with the availability of nuclear bombs to the world's most evil characters. Throughout 
 the campaign you'll play as two special op units, one from the United States, Sgt. Paul Jackson, 
 and the other from Britain, Sgt. 'Soap' MacTavish. And not to spoil too much, you'll also be playing 
 as another special ops soldier of S. A. S. that takes place fifteen years prior to your actions that 
 fits in perfectly into the story and gives it more depth. Through both story lines, you'll be traveling 
 across the eastern continents traveling all across the middle-east and across the great country 
 of Russia including the decimated city of Chernobyl. All the locations within the campaign look 
 and feel superb and you'll find yourself just staring at some of the locales as you progress because 
 of the visual quality that Infinity Ward gives the player throughout the storyline that's line 
 with intense moments and tricky gunfire battles. The story, although told decently well through 
 dialogue transmissions and smaller in-game cutscenes, is pretty simple in the fact that some bad 
 guys are trying to get a hold of nuclear weapons to lay waste to free nations and it's your job 
 to stop them. As you progress through the campaign, you'll come across different twists and turns 
 in the story and you'll find yourself not only going after the scrapping Al-Asahd, but the top 
 dog himself who is leading the revolution against those who choose to be free. Like all of the 
 Call of Duty previous to Modern Warfare, you'll begin with a simple tutorial level which shows 
 you how to shoot, aim, run, jump, etc and from then on, you're thrust out on your own with the 
 first mission in the middle of the ocean on a large ship. From then on, the situations you're subjected 
 to only get more intense whether you're battling off hundreds of rebels with only a group of five 
 marines or shooting down hundreds of enemies out of the side of a helicopter in the heat of battle. 
 Much as previous installments have had hours of fierce gun battles that rage on level after level, 
 Modern Warfare is no different, but what is somewhat different is the fact that in the fourth installment, 
 Infinity Ward cut out a lot of the repetitive gun battles that seemed to drag the game out in a 
 boring way, but what's left is an intense six to eight hour campaign that can be finished in one 
 sitting if you take the time to do so.
  
  While this can be considered short in today's standards of first person shooters, rarely does a 
 game in this genre give the intensity through every minute of the entire game like Modern Warfare 
 does. Certain missions, such as All Ghillied Up, where you spend quite a bit of time crawling on 
 your hands and knees through the outskirts of Chernobyl with a sniper rifle never really having 
 to take a shot, may sound like it might slow the pace of the game down, but the way that Infinity 
 Ward makes you crawl through rows of soldiers who are marching right over you and dogs that might 
 sniff your scent, really keeps your interest the entire time. While previous installments have 
 had stories that tend to go the way of the protagonist, Modern Warfare gives a grittier tone to 
 the game and while I won't spoil the story for you, you'll probably be somewhat surprised by the 
 conclusions of the storylines of the two soldiers you'll be playing.
  
  Visuals in the game are stunning, but what is really impressive is the optimization of the engine 
 that the game runs on. Simply put, Call of Duty 4: Modern Warfare is the most optimized game of 
 the year, and this is not just saying that it runs flawlessly with a good system, but also that 
 even with a medium rig, you'll be able to have some really great visuals without the usual hiccups 
 you find from newer games coming out this year and in past years. Infinity Ward really took their 
 time with this new engine and really fine tuned it quite well before release. If you've run across 
 some screenshots of the game before and believe that they may be touched up because of good they 
 look, no need to worry, the game just looks that good. Facial features expressed from friendly 
 soldiers with have you catch yourself staring while playing because of how realistic they look 
 throughout the entire campaign. And not enough can be said about the environments throughout the 
 campaign. Whether you're on a ship in the middle of the ocean or using the famous carousel shown 
 in many Chernobyl pictures for cover, you'll be impressed with the visual sense of the game in 
 all of the levels. As you trudge building through building in the middle-eastern levels, you'll 
 appreciate the physics engine as you're able to shoot through objects such as wooden doors, like 
 in real life. Infinity ward has now created a realistic experience with their programming of the 
 bullet in Modern Warfare tracing the actual trajectory from the gun to its destination with calculating 
 velocity as it goes through different objects including people.
  
  Also to note is the sound in the game. Whether it's the shouting of your fellow solders in the 
 heat of battle or the screaming cries of your enemies as you take them out one by one, you'll be 
 more than happy with the sound throughout the game. Another component to note is the sound of the 
 multiple guns that you're able to use throughout the many missions that all have their own sound, 
 and effects such as frag grenades or flash grenades that will have your ears ringing if you're 
 standing too close to them when they go off. Voice acting is done superbly whether it's your fellow 
 soldiers barking out orders at your side, or your Captain giving you a briefing of the mission 
 right before you start. Sound effects and just the overall environmental atmospheric sounds just 
 make the game that much more intense when trying to defend your position against what seems like 
 an endless parade of your enemy hour after hour, mission after mission. 
  
  With the multiplayer, Infinity Ward could have easily just cranked out an exact replica of its 
 previous games with different textures, but they added a bit more this time through and much to 
 the liking of the fans. Now, when playing multiplayer, you'll be gaining experience to virtually 
 'level-up' where you'll be able to unlock all of the multiplayer content including all of the classes 
 and their specific perks and if you feel like being different, you can even go on to create your 
 own class. There are six different modes of multiplayer which range from the regular deathmatch 
 and team deathmatch to a new style where you'll be dragging around a bomb throughout the level 
 to take out your enemy equipment across the map. These separate modes add quite a bit of replayability 
 to the overall game as you'll be building up your experience enhancing your character with different 
 guns and classes through the ranking system. On the PC, you're able to have up to 32 players going 
 in one match which can create some havoc and the maps available are centered around some of the 
 places that you've played through during the single-player campaign and each map offers advantages 
 for the different classes like spots where snipers could hide and take out their prey one at time. 
 You'll find that the multiplayer can be as intense as the single player when wanting to build up 
 your experience to enhance your character and there are some bonus perks as well when playing such 
 as killing three or five opponents in a row and having the ability to make your hud show more of 
 your enemies on screen or even calling in an air strike on your opponents. There is just a lot 
 more depth to the multiplayer this time around that will give it the longevity that the online 
 deserves. You almost want to look back at the older online shooting games and wonder why you didn't 
 expect more from them.
  
  Overall, this is classic in the sense of the intensity that it delivers from beginning to end. 
 Whether you're in the single-player campaign or battling others online, you'll be at the edge of 
 your seat. It's your choice how you take the shortness of the single-player, you can look at it 
 as seeing that there isn't any fluff in the campaign to lengthen it or just moan about how short 
 it is, it's gonna be your choice, but be rest assured that the multiplayer will keep you occupied 
 for months to come once you've completed the campaign. With its different options and modes of 
 gameplay, classes and weapons, there are many options to choose from when entering each online 
 map. Although the single-player campaign alone isn't worth the admission, add the multiplayer component 
 and it seems like steal. You'll find yourself asking why you were satisfied with so little before 
 you picked up your copy of Modern Warfare. And there's not a lot to worry about with the stability 
 of the game. Although there may be some very minor and minimal bugs that show up in different spots, 
 they in no way take away or hinder the player from the overall experience and could easily be picked 
 up in a patch down the road, and that's even if you notice them anyway.
  
  Gameplay 9
  Graphics 9
  Sound 9
  Story/Plot 9
  Replay Value 9
  Stability 9
  Multiplayer 10
  Overall 
 9.10
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: theeota1
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 11, 2007 6:46 am PT
Review:  When you think of call of duty you generally think of the world war 2 era game play, with lots 
 of action, and an almost movie like way the story plays out. This game brings all of that but with 
 better immersion, that grabs you from the start and has you locked in for the whole ride.
  
  First off, COD 4 has all the right elements of an FPS - fast controls, with the semi-realistic 
 aiming (adjusted crosshairs) that make the game real, a far bit better then pixel perfect for quality's 
 sake, and with button arrangement where it makes sense. The game teaches you quickly how to play 
 - Long tutorials always drag out a little excitement - and you are right in the action. From the 
 start you begin to pick out what guns you like to have, which is nice because anything the enemy 
 was using you can get. If you like the smooth recoil of the SAS weaponry, or you prefer to grab 
 the first AK-47 that you find, you will get a good feel for what you want, because the game takes 
 careful consideration into each weapons detail.
  
  But the detail of the weaponry isn't the only great thing you will find here, the scenery and effects 
 are perfect for the story. There were a lot of times while playing that I found myself marveling 
 at how real things were. great textures, realistic people, and good effects. People weren't stiff, 
 enemies would look at you and occasionally hesitate - something you can almost see as a bit of 
 surprise - before they would chose to fire, toss a grenade or charge at you. The game sucks you 
 into it so smoothly because it looks like what you are doing is real, and not hokey. 
  
  This feeds into the sound too. a great game has great sound. One of the best ways to find yourself 
 deep in a game is the sound of a grenade clinking behind you, or the enemy that starts to yell 
 as he charges in. All the sounds were well placed in a surround environment, and had realistic 
 range. Sounds that were close were loud and percussive, sounds off in the distant were quieter, 
 more muffled. You could hide in a building corner to reload and hear where the enemy was firing 
 from and if there were many there. All in all, you will find yourself falling into the game.
  
  This brings me to the AI. The computer is smart. they wont wait for you to shoot, they won't 
 stand in the open and fire at you. No, these enemies fight like people who want to live. They duck 
 behind corners, run crouched low, or hold their gun around a corner and fire to protect themselves. 
 Enemies on roofs will go for you if you are trying to use cover they can see, and If an enemy is 
 overwhelmed by and you and your squad, they will throw a grenade, fall back, or charge at you to 
 try and surprise you and get an early blow in. There is a down fall though in the AI and that is 
 also their choices. Enemies tend to act very independent in how they use grenades. if you and your 
 guys rush to cover, they will all throw grenades, which can on occasion corner you in, or you find 
 yourself frantically trying to throw them all back. Also, AI seems to focus on you even in a squad 
 of 5-10 men. It makes it really hard to follow the main route, but There is a way around it too.
 
  
  Backdoor. This term might sound bad, but it means something big in COD4. If you find yourself stuck 
 on a village, or in the city unable to make an assault one way, there is generally atleast 1 other 
 way to advance, that isn't the main choice. This allows those who are quick to find them, or taking 
 a bit of time to sneak around the main assault, and flank the enemy. This has its downsides too, 
 some doors are filled with enemies, and they will avoid grenades like you if they can, so it leaves 
 you with less of a linear feel to the missions, which in an FPS you can get drug down by the feeling 
 of the 1 corridor labyrinth. 
  
  Multiplayer fits well in COD and with the new weapons, and the objective games, the different classes, 
 and perks, it leaves something to evolve into, instead of just strait forward killing. A game that 
 puts advancement and customization into its multiplayer tends to last longer without burnout. It 
 also can make each game fresh, having to face opponents with different load outs and ideas, rather 
 then a cookie cutter group with basic weaponry.
  
  Overall, I would have to say COD4 is one of my favorite FPS because it leaves a lot of room to 
 play online, but also has a well developed (but sadly short) single player game that allows for 
 a bit of reply, and online a ton of hours of fun. The game wraps up a beautiful tapestry of color, 
 lighting, effects and sounds with great multiplayer, and a story that keeps you glued to the screen 
 for hours. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: apocmessiah
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 15, 2007 12:58 pm PT
Review:  Call of Duty games have always been hugely entertaining and the level of detail that goes into 
 scripting all the action is certainly far and above anything else on the market. When you play 
 a Call of Duty game it is an interactive cinematic experience that few FPS's live up to. They have 
 achieved this yet again with Call of Duty 4 and is definitely a highly recommended game. However 
 it is not a ground breaker. For people who are used to Call of duty games, the trigger become all 
 too familiar. Team mates won't advance until you're in the right spot, and enemies continuously 
 spawn until you get past a certain way point. This leads to game play that becomes very routine 
 and takes the emphasis from taking down your enemy to running to the next way point. While it is 
 very good at what it does, there is no real depth in this game compared to more ambitious titles. 
 Take for instance S. T. A. L. K. E. R. Once you have played that game and enjoyed the ballistics models 
 it offers, firing a gun in Call of Duty just seems fake and dated. It's dynamic environment, and 
 multiple ways of approaching an objective makes it a much more engrossing experience. Call of Duty 
 4 only offers eye candy for it's single player campaign, and while that is sugar coated, eye candy, 
 once you get past that, there is not much else to the game. The online play has a lot to offer 
 although from what I've seen so far it is rampant with spawn camping and many weapons are pretty 
 worthless because of balancing issues. The online play has some of the best eye candy as far as 
 multiplay goes, but poorly designed maps mean exploits are abused and take a large part of the 
 enjoyment out of it. In conclusion it is still a hugely enjoyable franchise that has played safe 
 by sticking to a tried and tested formula. So for those that want more of the same then this is 
 top notch, however for those of us who are looking for a game that gives us a new and innovative 
 experience then this is not it. No innovation no 9+ score - dems da rulez ;) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Wolfitz
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 10, 2007 11:45 am PT
Review:  I'll keep it short. I never believed that this game was going to top the previous COD games in 
 terms of gameplay, and melt your face off fun; but, it has done that more than could be expected. 
 COD 4: Modern Warfare is insanely fun. The singleplayer, which is rather short, is overcome by 
 the replayability of the multiplayer, which tops any other game out on the market at the time. 
 COD 4: Modern Warfare is just frickin awesome. Finally, since I lack in a top of the line video 
 card, I don't enjoy the full greatness of the games graphical potential, yet at low to medium settings, 
 this game looks insane, and runs flawlessly without any jittering, or obvious and annoying bugs. 
 This game has a great replayability factor, which many lack. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Wolf-avatar
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 10, 2007 11:01 am PT
Review:  The game is Good I love it, In this review I will go over the Things that make it Bad and good, Lets 
 start with the Things that Make it bad. You play as two Sides America and the French, personnaly 
 i like playing america more becouse more Action and the Warinings Iv played the Game for about 
 1 Hour and I got real sick thoring up bad HeadAches but I dont relly care this game is Fun! The 
 Grapics or the Best Grapics ever but it cant stand up to Crysis Grapichs, So if you have some money 
 Buy this F***king game its the F***king the Best game you will ever play! I gave it a 9.0 for me 
 getting sick. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: eldertaco
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 10, 2007 3:53 am PT
Review:  I got this game for my Ps3 on black friday because it was on sale for $48. 
  It was worth every penny. I have never played any of the priviouse games in the series but I gave 
 it a chance. I haven't played with the multiplayer much. Only 20 min or so. I have just completed 
 the main game and it was amazing. Great controls and the graphics are great. I love the way the 
 view changes when you bring the gun up to you'r eye. Blades of grass go in and out of foucus as 
 you crawl on the ground. The story is great. It really feel like you playing the battle scenes 
 of a movie. I consider myself an average gamer and It took me just under ten hours to complete 
 on the regular level. If you'r not a fan of FPS this might be the one to convert you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ganwir1001
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 10, 2007 12:32 am PT
Review:  I think games like this should be made ,i mean i have a decent rig and i can enjoy it to the max, you 
 do not have to posses a supercomp to play this, Crysis was good but it needs serious hardware to 
 fully enjoy otherwise its just wasted bucks, developers need to take into account that graphics 
 only form a part of a great game, the main thing is GAMEPLAY, and COD4 is definitely my game of the 
 year. The campaign is short but you can definitely come back for a second time. the main thing is 
 it delivers good fps even on a decent machine. Sounds are great, AI is challenging ,it really feels 
 like you have been transported to a hollywood flick. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Azules31
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 9, 2007 2:47 pm PT
Review:  I originally completed this title on the X Box 360 but only recently purchased a second copy for 
 the online multiplayer (Yes, I don't have a live account ) .
  
  Graphics: This game is simply stunning, with such a high level of model detail, it is quite hard 
 to pick a flaw. But, in fact I did find a few on the 360 edition but not on the PC. Some of the 
 shadowing is rather pixelated and often when helicopters or flying objects pass overhead, the entire 
 shadow just glitches. Along side this, although as well as it was implemented, the change of focus, 
 such as that when moving from scope to just plain crosshairs, some of the models just don't do 
 this whole focus thing. Other than these 2 flaws, this games graphics were amazing. (9/10)
  
  Game Play: This game played absolutely well, particularly on the 360 with the option of the 
 'lock on aim' made this console FPS far more enjoyable than most others. The control set up was 
 brilliant from the get go and the implementation of various different level types was what made 
 it possibly game of the year for me. These included levels such as the sniper level, the boat level 
 and gunship level which I personally loved. The ability to replay these levels in the Arcade feature 
 just blew me away at how such a simple yet awesome idea could add so much to this game for me. 
 (10/10)
  
  Storyline/Single Player: By far, the single best storyline in any game I have ever played. At moments 
 i was cringing, at others I was extreamely exited. The fact that they managed to enter twine 2 
 story lines from 2 different military forces, to create 1 knock out blow just won me over instantly. 
 Although the difficulty was 'Just right' this game left me craving more. I was really quite disappointed 
 with the ending, and would have honestly enjoyed another 2 hours of game play, but I just can't 
 complain with the amount of extra content available, mainly the arcade mode. (9/10)
  
  Multiplayer: My initial impression of the game was that it was indeed intended for purely multiplayer, 
 but with a story mode added to satisfy the others. Well, I was wrong, this game isn't purely multiplayer, 
 but it does indeed to it so well. This game is easily the best multiplayer war game I have ever 
 played on a console. The introduction of the 'perks' system, where you can call in helicopters 
 and air strikes gave me a sort of incentive to reach the next few kills, rather than in countless 
 games where I've just found myself bored and gone to do something else. (10/10)
  
  Overall I think that this is game of the year, and it is most deserving of a 10, but I feel as 
 though Orange Box deserves it just that tiny bit more. If it were possible, a 9.9 would surely 
 be given to this game. You should go purchase this game, if you haven't already got it, with no 
 doubt in your mind. This game lives up to all its expectations and is all that its hyped up to 
 be. 
  Congratulations Activision, you've got yourself a winner. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kingKOOPa7731
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 9, 2007 7:51 am PT
Review:  This game is simply put, great. To start off the campaign, a decent story line and a few unexpected 
 plot turns. Provides some good fun, especially with a sniper rifle. Then we get to Veteran. These 
 achievements have always been prestigious, and they remain just that. If you don't mind getting 
 a few early grey hairs, you'll definately enjoy Veteran.
  
  Enough of the campaign, and onto my favorite part, the multiplayer. Everything you could ask for 
 is encompassed in this online frag fest. Whether you like to sit back with a sniper rifle, mow 
 down the enemy with a LMG, or sprint around with an SMG and a shotgun, COD4 has it all. 
  
  Aside from the guns COD4 has introduced us to the new online feature that is sure to revolutionize 
 other games. The Perk. Once you hit your fourth rank online you can create your own custom class, 
 which means customizing your perks. These range from extra frag grenades, to stronger bullets, 
 to the ability to drop a live grenade when you die (the anti-tea-bag perk) . These perks are well 
 balanced and provide for a unique game every game, since you'll never know what perk your opponent 
 is using... until they kill you of course.
  
  You'll know then because of the kill cam. A nifty little device that when killed allows you to 
 see exactly how the enemy killed you. Sometimes it seems a little absurd and other times you'll 
 be kicking yourself, but its a helpful tool never the less. 
  
  Overall a great game. This is definatly a must own for the holiday season. Not only is the single 
 player good, but the online player will blow you away. And rumors of DLC will only make this game 
 better. See you on the battlefield. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Darkdesires
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 9, 2007 6:58 am PT
Review:  Graphics:
  
  The graphics are awsome and they are very well optimized and run really smooth even if you don't 
 have a milionaire PC. The effects are great and all the textures and stuff have amazing detail 
 so you'll be more than happy with Call of Duty 4 graphics cause even if you don't have a top PC 
 you can still play the game in a good resolution and pretty smooth. Smoke effects are great, Call 
 of Duty 2 had already showed that smoke effects in the series where great.
  9.
  
  Gameplay:
  
  This is where Call of Duty 4 stands out, and not only Call of duty 4, previous 
 installements in the franchise also stand out for their amazingly intensive immersive and addictive 
 gameplay. Call of Duty 4 its the most intensive game up to date and one of the most addictive, 
 you'll want to play it over and over in other dificulty settings, veteran its really damn hard 
 and sometimes you will think its just impossible to get pass some areas in veteran dificulty. You 
 have no life metter, you die just like Call of Duty 2, this helps to maintain the intensity of 
 the combat.
  10.
  
  Sound:
  
  All sounds Perfect in Call of Duty 4, so many gunshots all over the place, so many explosions... 
 the awesome sound effects also help to make Call of Duty 4 an intense experience.
  9.
  
  Value:
  
  The game will finish in just about 5-6 hours but believe me, you will play it again 
 and again, and in a dificulty like veteran you will spend many more time than 5-6 hours playing 
 it, there is also the intense multiplayer exprience that add much more fun into the game, multiplayer 
 in Call of duty 4 feels like CounterStrike.
  9.
  
  Overall:
  
  Call of Duty 4 its a great game, a great sequel to Call of Duty 2 in the PC and 3 on consoles. 
 Anyone who enjoyed COD 2 will love COD 4, its the most intense gaming experience this year and 
 probably ever. Call of Duty 4 can be the shooter of the year, along side with Bioshock and Crysis. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GamingMonkeyPC
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 8, 2007 6:24 pm PT
Review:  Pros:
  + Very intense single player campaign
  + An actual story going on, though fictional
  + Varied situation makes gameplay feel a little 
 bit more refreshed
  + Good graphics
  + Sound is amazing, especially the music
  + Good surprises!
  + Multiplayer is very easy to pick up and go - very fun!
  
  Cons:
  - 
 First person is really short
  - AI teammates at times get in the way, when you're trying to run from a grenade in tight spots
 
  - Graphics isn't too huge of a step up from Call of Duty 4, but still looks great
  - Didn't fully enjoy the "Marine" side of the campaign that much
  
  The Meat:
  All I can 
 say is that Call of Duty 4: Modern Warfare is an amazing game that actually make you feel like 
 you're the marine or a special SAS solider. I didn't really enjoy the marine side as much, since 
 the action was more or less felt like an average gun and run type game. The SAS however, small 
 portions of it such as the camaflogue mission just makes you feel like an elite guy taking down 
 the baddies in a more stealthy fashion - which is simply awesome.
  
  I'll just say... GET THIS GAME IF YOU LIKE TO FEEL LIKE A BAD ASS! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: goofygoo13
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 8, 2007 3:14 pm PT
Review:  this game is to good. they should not be allowed to make games this good. buy this game and it 
 will last you forever. the graphics are awsome and the multip [layer is even better. the singel 
 player is also very good. there are like 30 different guns and 3 different grenades. the games 
 multiplayer also fetures over 10 different game types. the ranking in the game makes it very competetive 
 and fun. you will also enjoy the party feature that allows you to play with your friends and puts 
 you all on the same team every time. the multiplayer also features gun upgrades. there also is 
 a feture called perks that help you in the different game types you are playing 
::::::

::::::
UserName: joshualamgroup
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 8, 2007 6:24 am PT
Review:  Call of Duty 4: Modern Combat is short (total gameplay is an average of 5hours) , snappy, fun, and 
 is a refreshing break to the older CODs', which focuses on World War 2. 
  
  Refreshing as it is, you still fire a gun, no doubt. But you're firing it at terrorists and Russians, 
 not Germany! You're the British SAS and/or the Americans! You fight as half-hiding gorillas, not 
 as a full-sized army. You fight everywhere, from Russia, the Middle East to cargo ships and even 
 a bonus level featured in a aircraft, which you have to recuse a VIP. 
  
  Overall, COD4: MC single player campaign has to be one of the best ever, not seen in any other games 
 so far, it has to be one of the shortest. The only thing better to COD4: MC could be an expansion 
 pack. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ArCHAN6EL
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 7, 2007 11:00 pm PT
Review:  They say "War is poetic to those who have never experienced it." 10 seconds into the opening of 
 the new Call of Duty 4, gamers can now easily say that among all people they understand just how 
 much war is hell. The good guys are badass; the bad guys are badder than badass and the weapons 
 have gotten a whole lot more deadly since 1944. How readily the change in era affects you depends 
 on your familiarity with the COD series, but irregardless, Call of Duty 4 is a game that will leave 
 you battered bruised but breathless through the tense single player and the fast furious pace of 
 multiplayer.
  
  SINGLEPLAYER:
  Contrary to Infinity Ward's first two COD titles, the single player is played from the perspective 
 of two soldiers, rather than the natural three. While this shortens the length of the campaign 
 considerably, the time spent on the first two characters; A fresh out of basic SAS operative, and 
 a Force Recon USMC sergeant, allows the game time to flesh out their characters. 
  True to Infinity Ward's credit, the single player is a one-way train through hell and back. Filled 
 with heavily scripted, and memorable set pieces, this is the sort of game you'd bring your friends 
 over to see.
  Whether it be firefighting with nightvision through a darkened city block, fending off rabid hungry 
 dogs, or escaping a watery grave the single player while only 6-7 hours (8-9 on hardened and above) 
 is jam-packed with enough content to keep you intrigued for the duration. 
  The story revolves around a techno-thriller basis whereby the player is thrust into a conflict 
 in the Middle East resulting from a coup by the mysterious Freedom Fighter Khaled Al-Asad. It seems 
 that he was able to topple his country's democratic government and gain the support of government 
 soldiers. The United States intervenes with the USMC and supporting forces, it is in this conflict 
 that you take the role of Sgt. Paul Jackson of the First Force Recon, fighting through block after 
 block of angry, zealous militia and soldiers. And when I say zealous, I mean zealous. They'll run 
 at you screaming weapon in hand, box you in with grenades and routinely launch devastating RPG's 
 towards you.
  Meanwhile on the western front, as 'Soap' Mactavish, you and your team of hardened Brit SAS comrades 
 will seek to unravel the puppetmaster behind Al-Asad's coup in the middle East, race to stop nuclear 
 war and execute a dazzling assault with Russian Loyalists on a nationalist held town. 
  While the campaign itself is very similiar in vein to COD 1 and 2, this is in no way a bad thing. 
 You can still peer around corners, raise your weapon to your eye for more accurate aiming and yes, 
 melee enemies in the face. 
  However there are some little additions that serve to boost the game even further: Terrain is now 
 destructible, allowing you to fire at enemies behind sheet metal and thin wooden boards, blow up 
 cars next to them and even use their own grenades against them. Unfortunately, your enemies (and 
 they will be numerous) will do the exact same to you. 
  While the singleplayer is certainly short, completable in 5 and a half hours, from the get go you 
 (as the player) are thrust into a variety of breathtaking engaging situations that are not easily 
 forgettable.
  
  MULTIPLAYER
  
  Multiplayer is possibly the defining achievement of Call of Duty 4. Gameplay mechanics and physics 
 from singleplayer carry into multiplayer allowing you to shoot through thin plaster walls and waste 
 your enemies with their own grenades. In addition a system of class based weaopnry, and kill streak 
 'powers' serves to keep the game's action tense and exciting. It is however the addition of class-based 
 perks that show just how deep the development process at Infinity Ward went. 'Perks' are abilities 
 or boosts given to your character through increased online play, by killing more opponents, committing 
 specific kills (melee, headshot) you earn points towards unlockable perks and weapon attachments. 
 These perks give you a slight edge in combat such as better speed, increased sprinting time, steadier 
 sniper aim etc. while others are a last-ditch resort in your arsenal. Martyrdom for example has 
 you dropping a grenade the moment you die, boosting the chance of taking any enemy with you. 
 
  With an addition of over a dozen maps and a fluid lobbying system, Call of Duty 4 shines like 
 no other first person shooter in multiplayer. The class system and perks will continue to ensure 
 that far into the future Call of Duty 4 remains a dedicated shooter for hardcore fans of the series 
 and FPS fanatics alike.
  
  VERDICT
  
  While the singleplayer is 'short and sweet', the sweetness of it all is certainly amplified. A 
 stellar, sombre soundtrack, great voice acting and well structured linear gameplay will leave you 
 in shellshock even after the epilogue 'Mile High' club. While Multiplayer presents hours upon hours 
 of unlockable content to keep you going. 
  Ladies and Gentlemen, if you have never purchased a Call of Duty game, get off your PC and do so 
 now. And if you are a fan of the series, then there's no point in me saying another word.....9.5/10 
 points
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: 13qe244
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 7, 2007 6:56 pm PT
Review:  I'm dissappointed that this game has been so highly rated. While it does have good graphics and 
 presentation, the game-play is shallow and unsatisfying. 
  
  As a member of some sort of special forces, you will engage enemy forces on a variety of exotic 
 locations. Unfortunately, gameplay is simply running around for a couple of minutes, encountering 
 resistance in a ship / building / etc. and occasionally repelling a horde of soliders stacked up 
 behind boxes / a large room / a balcony. Oh what fun... There is no immersive story line or even 
 strategy. Run around, shoot, run behind a wall / box, shoot, run a little more, shoot. 
  
  If you like to unwind with some mindless shooting and don't want to really think about anything, 
 this might be attractive. It feels like a typical, crappy console game that a 16 year old might 
 like. 
  
  This is not PC gaming.
  
  I highly recommend Stalker: Shadow of Chernobyl. This game, while it dodn't have the graphics, 
 is excellent. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: infinite_venom
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 7, 2007 6:39 pm PT
Review:  This time, one of the highly anticipated game, Call of Duty 4 is here created by Activision and 
 Infinity Ward. The gameplay is certainly great. Battles are intense and fun and also, the missions 
 are great. The AI in the game is smart as they will try to take cover, try to throw grenades at 
 your position and they'll sometimes even throw your grenades back if they have the time to do so. 
 They may sometimes do foolish things like charge at you although they can sometimes kill you easily 
 if they do this especially on the harder difficulties. Weapons in the game are all great. You may 
 not have the ability to take cover like in Gears of War but you'll probably try to do so. The game 
 though is a little bit short which isn't pretty good but you'll enjoy the game while it lasts. 
 The only difference in gameplay between the Xbox 360 and PC version is its controlls. The visuals 
 of the game are simply amazing. The lighting, rain, shadows, environment, weapons, smoke, characters, 
 water, etc. all of this looks great. You might notice though that the water at the first stage 
 isn't that great but you won't probably mind it. The games frame rate is also completely smooth 
 and stable and the game rans at 60 fps which already high despite the large amount of detail on 
 screen at once. The visuals of the Xbox 360 and PC version looks almost alike although if you have 
 a strong computer, the PC version of COD4 will have better performance. Music and sounds on the 
 game are also good. The bad thing is you don't hear much music unless on certain situations in 
 the games but if you do, they are great.
  
  Call of Duty 4 is another revolutionary title. Great gameplay, graphics, and sound will certainly 
 keep you entertained until you finish the game.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: zillan
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 7, 2007 11:36 am PT
Review:  just what you need after a hard day at work. kill kill kill the bad guy and rescue the world :)
 
  
  May be I am just a sucker for great screen play and great story telling. having a free roam in 
 games gets boring after you spend hours trying to find out what to do next. with COD4 you never 
 miss the action because its right up your nose and making you sneeze before you can say terrorist.
 
  
  |I love it and I have loved all the COD releases except the dreaded COD 3 and the PSP versions.
 
  
  keep up the great work. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: luis94
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 11, 2008 11:57 am PT
Review:  Call of duty 4 finnaly leaves the WW2 themes. Now its helicopters, jet-planes, nuclear bombs and 
 lasers.
  Its about a ficitonal story about a Russian guy and his bad mates. Its well made, has a nice argument.
 
  
  The game has alot of extraordinary moments, and is just plain of explosions and bullets, and graphics 
 and models are sublime. The background is huge with alot going on there. 
  You are given alot of different missions, from stopping bad guys to launch missiles that would 
 explode the USA, and fly in a big bomber, using super destructive bombs.
  There are four dificultys, all four well adjusted to all kind of players, although it feels a bit 
 tough since enemys wont keep showing until you reach the next checkpoint ! ( yes its true ) .
  
  But what really is good, is the multiplayer. Online or offline, you make your own class, earn 
 exp points, fight in different maps and mods, to deathmatch to Hardcore ( weapons found on the 
 ground like in Counter-Strike for example ) .
  You use different skills, summon helicopters and planes, and face a big challenge. .
  
  But, 
 in total, Call of Duty 4 Rocks. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zooz12
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 7, 2007 4:35 am PT
Review:  Gameplay: 8
  Graphics: 10
  Sound: 8
  Value: 9
  Tilt: 6
  
  
  Call of Duty 4 is still Call of Duty.
  Everything you've known from the first and second games 
 are still there, just in a different scene. This time around it is set around this decade; World 
 War II is over, now there is a conflict between the Russians and between the British and the U. S. 
 over nuclear weapons.
  
  Call of Duty 4 features breath-taking graphics and top notch animations, though the sounds don't 
 sound so special, the weapons feel ok and the music is alright, but nothing special.
  
  While playing it is hard sometimes to notice the enemy from your own people, like Jeff wrote on 
 the official Review.
  Enemies still come at you like ants from their nests until you progress further on the map - move 
 to the next building, make the next check point. Which isn't a good thing at all if you ask me, 
 but hey, this game still shines so it must be good enough.
  
  In addition to the fact that Call of Duty then is still Call of Duty now, it doesn't invent or 
 even reinvent anything really.
  You have new beautiful looking graphics, sure.
  You have amazing looking animations, though these kinds of animations have already been seen here 
 and there.
  You have this new setting, set around this decade.
  You have cool new cinematic feeling to the game.
  But besides all that, which is again nothing 
 new really, it's still Call of Duty and it's not THAT a big of a game.
  'Cause I mean, we already saw Call of Duty back then and Call of Duty 2 (COD3 wasn't for the PC 
 so I don't know about it) and while there are plenty of games who try and succeed in inventing 
 and reinventing new ideas for games (I'm talking gameplay not just stories) this game still stays 
 a bit behind.
  
  For me, the really big and important improvement is the cinematic feeling of this game and the 
 animations, which you gotta have. You gotta have life like captured animations to make the game 
 feel authentic. And the cinematic helps get the player more drawn into the game.
  
  While there isn't anything really wrong with this game, there aren't that many great things either.
 
  As I keep saying, it's practically the same Call of Duty form the past. Which is good, for whoever 
 waited around like me for more new COD action.
  
  
  So to sum up, it's a good game, just not THAT great. Worth buying though.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: mauricefortin00
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 6, 2007 11:45 pm PT
Review:  This has got to be one of the best looking fastest paced and mixture of hard easy elemnts to a 
 war game i have ever played
  join us on damnocracy gaming servers and HOORAH
  
  The single player is awesome and the multiplayer rocks it could have been a little more refined 
 in adding to favorites and a test for voice but besides that I give it a perfect 10 sound looks 
 feel control speed everything to me is just sweet and pre warning ADDICTIVE!!!!
  
  play it plenty play it lots tons of weapons challenges lots to see and do u will enjoy i guarantee 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kalasas
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 6, 2007 7:12 pm PT
Review:  Multiplayer -- ranks, unlockable weapons ( not too over powering but awsome)
  -evens teams very closely 9/10 times
  - hard/ but not too hard unlocks for guns, like a silencer, 
 or a red dot or even a 203 gernade launcher ( not overpowering)
  theres like 5 of each type of weapon, machine gun (like saw) assult rilfe (AK m16 ) smg pistol 
 ect 
  - call in chopters, call in air strikes and Uvas
  
  nothing is really over powering, all weapons work correctly, IE you cant snipe with a shot gun 
 or pistol, and you can kill with a sniper rifle when someone is trying to knife you. Recoil is 
 also propper, and you can hide anywhere using gili suits and stuff its awsome, rent it and then 
 buy it.. or just buy it you will like it i know it i can almost guarentee it.
  its a shwweeet game.
  
  supports mics,
  
  single player is great, but you really need multiplayer 
 to explore the entire game
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: asian_marine
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 6, 2007 5:05 pm PT
Review:  When infinity ward announced that CoD4 would be Modern Warfare I was absolutely delighted! WWII 
 was getting kinda old, and the fact that you play a U. S. Marine is absolutely amazing, the army 
 gets kinda old. The only fault in this game is the length of the campaign is so short. I finished 
 it in a little over 6 hours. Other then that It's absolutely stunning.
  
  Visual: The graphics are so phenomenal. Details are sharp and crips, and I'm very please the designers 
 went to extra lengths for weapons and uniform accuracies as well as the usual dirt flying when 
 guns are blazing.
  
  Audio: Academy award winning sound, case closed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: graham400rr
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 6, 2007 1:50 am PT
Review:  Once installed, i immediately went for the single player missions as i thought it would be good 
 training for the multiplayer. I chose the hardened level as i hate breezing through a game without 
 having to sweat a little.
  
  And bloody hell, i got what i asked for! I've been playing WoW for over 2 years, and this was just 
 something completely different, and extremely exciting. It took some getting used to but once i 
 configured my N-52 to work as i wanted, i really started to gel with the game. Switching from the 
 SAS to Marines, and even being in a bomber flying high above or sniping from far.. and close... 
 .really gives you a great and very real feel of what being there would be like. The storyline makes 
 you fight even harder to get past the missions so you can find out what goes on as it evolves. 
 The last FPS i had played was MOH PA on the ps2, and although it was fun... it really cant compare 
 or even come close to the feeling and intensity of this game. 
  
  As for the multiplayer... 
  
  Well, me and some mates started off playing LAN's between us, 
 getting used to it and learning some tactis as we played. Fantastic fun, and some good maps for 
 any number of people. (Shipment is our favourite for 2vs2, and we also love Bog) But playing online 
 is a bit different, and takes some getting used to. First of all, we're just a small group of friends, 
 so we dont have our own dedicated server.. which means every time we wanted to play online together 
 we would have to look for a server in common. This proved to be harder than expected (as i mentioned.. 
 i played WoW for 2 years.. so being on the same server means always being there) . Also, when you 
 do actually find a server in common and manage to log onto it.. you dont always find what you expect. 
 Some servers are extremely high level compared to us, and we would just be massacred over and over 
 again. Although its great training, and really makes you try harder, it can get quite frustrating 
 after some time. So looking for a server where you find a decent level for your gameplay is pretty 
 important.
  
  I really like the "levelling" aspect of the game as well. The better you do, and the more games 
 you play, you start to climb in rank, and as you do so, you start to unlock different weapons and 
 weapon addons that give you something to aim for as you try and kill and not be killed in the mayhem 
 of multiplayer. Also the challenges are pretty fun to try and complete, and its quite rewarding 
 when you manage to complete one without even knowing it was there :)
  
  One thing that proved to be the main flaw was Punkbuster. Most of us are playing on an MSI GX600, 
 and others are on PC's running on Core2Duo's with Nvidia 8600 / 8800 gt's, all with Vista, and 
 in spite of updating to the latest PB version, and also getting all the game updates, we would 
 still get kicked for no reason which can make the most patient of gamers scream very nasty words. 
 In fact we still havent managed to solve some of the issues we were having and some of us keep 
 on getting kicked. Forums just tell you to update to the latest version, but that hasnt helped. 
 Vista SP1 should be released soon, and maybe that will fix some of the issues.
  
  Apart from that, its a game i recommend to anyone. It feels great, very immersive and exciting. 
 You tend to dream about it after playing for some time.. and thats always a good sign for a game 
 :) Various difficulty levels in the single player mode (although i always recommend a slightly 
 difficult level to get the full flavour) , and a large selection of servers to play on in Multiplayer.. 
 its a fantastic package and well worth the money spent.
  
  Thumbs up for Activision.. and i'm curious to see what will happen with the new merger with Vivendi 
 (Call of Warcraft? :P )
  
  Thanks for reading 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Vipsd1
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 5, 2007 7:13 pm PT
Review:  Call of Duty 4 is not just a new skin over the older battlefields, it have so many and amazing 
 new stuff that you can say its a tottaly new game.
  
  From the start to the end you will be tottaly inside the game, not just the action, but the history 
 and the characters are just so real that sometimes you must just stop and take a breath.
  
  The city/chopper scens are just enough to convice any player that this game deserves a high score 
 and a place of honor.
  
  Weapons are just right, they fell right, sound right and kill right ... also you will get pretty 
 well killed by enemies guns too, what is just perfect, no point about being too easy.
  
  The singleplayer campaing is not that short, you can have a lot of fun playing and re-playing that, 
 and takes some days to finish on higher difficult levels.
  
  Must say I am very impressed, the best of this kind of game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: QB1130X
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 5, 2007 7:21 pm PT
Review:  I love CoD4. The campaign is fun and the gameplay is fun. But the real action is online, and IW 
 really botched up there. First of all there are server issues abound. Lobbies won't start games, 
 kids get dropped all the time, and the connection often dies. Another downer is the fact you join 
 games in the middle of them. I really like this idea most of the time. It keeps games full. This 
 sucks however in CoD4. First of all, I'd like it in unranked games, but all matchmaking is ranked, 
 so that is gone. Secondly, when you join a game you usually join cause a team was getting trashed 
 so members quit, and now your stuck on the team losing by 20 kills. Now you get an undeserved loss 
 and if you quit you get a loss. 
  
  Next up is the awful respawns. This is my biggest problem in the game. I'd say CoD4 has some of 
 the worse respawns in recent memory. There have been worse, but that doesn't make the fact these 
 ones suck any better. You often spawn as near to your team as possible, so getting camped is easy, 
 especially in games like domination. And since you die in about .5 seconds of a fight, you really 
 don't have much a fighting chance against spawn deaths. In the end you'll respawn on grenades, 
 next to enemies, next to your dead body, under the same airstrike that killed you, and can be camped 
 in the hangar area of Countdown for years.
  
  Finally is hit detection. In a game like CoD4 something like this is unacceptable. When I am prone, 
 holding my breath, aimed directly on the chest of a stationary target with a sniper, I expect my 
 hit to register. Sometimes it doesn't. Good news is that IW is addressing this in the next patch 
 to come out. But it shouldn't be in the game at all.
  
  In the end those issues take away from what could have been an incredible game. Don't get me wrong, 
 it's still extremely fun when everything is working, cause the gameplay is great. I think review 
 sites, like this, and others really tried to rush their reviews out the door too quickly and ignored 
 some of these huge issues. The game is great, but these issues really hold it back. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jackie103
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 5, 2007 3:25 pm PT
Review:  I just finished this wonderful but very sad ending game. Sisters and brothers despite the game being 
 a bit short in the mission catagory, the game is worth every penny Activision and EA charges for 
 it. Many other combat PC gaming companies should have a look at this game. It never crashed one time 
 and despite the patchs for a few minor fixs, the game graphics are absolutely the best and I for 
 one think that it is going to give Crysis a run for its money as in game of the year and many other 
 PC awards. Other reviewers have been highly critical of Call of Duty 4: Modern Warfare, not so on 
 this girls computers. Even the music is stunning.
  The AI's are as smart as one can find in any game ever. In the hardest
  dificulty this game will 
 provide 10 to 20 hours of frustrating combat. There are many missions for all likes and dislikes. Sniper 
 enthusiast will have a great time online and single player. When all the Intel is collected one 
 can play the game again in arcade mode with some rather interesting goodies added to the game play. Also 
 after one collects the 30 peaces of intel. A special mission is thrown in. Its truly a fun and entertaining 
 game that will definately make fools of other gaming companys to say the least. Although the ending 
 of the main game is really sad. It almost made me cry. I truly hope that the Call of Duty 4: Modern 
 Warfare is not a finalised series due to the ending of which I will NOT spoil it for a gamer that 
 has not yet played it.
  Merry Christmas and Happiest of New years to you all. Now its on to Crysis,
  EWG..... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dhampyr246
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 5, 2007 9:43 am PT
Review:  Call of Duty 2 used to hold the title of best shooter for me. 
  
  Call of Duty 4 took the game I love, moved it ahead in time (giving a lot more cool options for 
 weapons) , and made it better. The gameplay is basically the same, but now we get the added bonus 
 of Create-A-Class, basically adding an RPG element. It's like the achievement system for the 360, 
 only with actual rewards. 
  
  I haven't played much of the campaign, but it seems pretty good so far. As for multiplayer, I think 
 the server search screen is slightly better than Call of Duty 2, but it still isn't much fun trying 
 to find a server to play on. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mikeisaniceguy
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 5, 2007 7:30 am PT
Review:  I wanted a game that wasn't on my Wii and I wanted a good shooter game. Everyone has been telling 
 me that cod4 would be great. Not only because it has good graphics but the online play was fun. 
 So i went to the store and but myself this game and installed it. then and there i knew this game 
 was going to be sweet. I thimk that this game could be ten times better than halo 3 since halo is 
 the same old stuff. but thats alright. I just wanted to let you who about to read this that it 
 is worth buying. SO BUY IT!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BnryZombie
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 5, 2007 6:23 am PT
Review:  When i first got this game i was expecting alot. I have always loved the call of duty series. But 
 as I started to play this game I found out that this call of duty dosen't even stand up to the 
 others. THIS IS THE BEST ONE YET. After you have beat the single player missions which are supirb 
 but sometimes confussing because of dark hallways but thats what nightvission is all about, you 
 unlock arcade mode in this you can challenge your self to beat all the maps again with a score. 
 the multiplayer is simular to halo 3 style rankings. As you kill more of your foes in battle you 
 unlock more and more guns, perks (which we will get to in a sec) , agments. Perks are sweet. when 
 waiting on a match to begin you can creat a custom class here you can choose a weapon a secondary 
 and then add perks to your charicter, like for example you want a guy that can rip throu armor 
 and kill the fow you alline the perks you want to get a second chance after death you can how about 
 a boost in health, which makes for a very deverse game play. in muliplayer this game shines. my 
 two favorite levels in single player death from above (ac-130) and Mile high club. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dragon12
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 5, 2007 2:57 am PT
Review:  Decent single player campaign that gives a decent storyline for a player to follow, good sounds, 
 nice touch using limited rag-doll physics, the crumpling of enemy is interesting, solid multi-player 
 with good match types. While a good game, the single player campaign is short. one can play through 
 the entire single player campaign in approximately 4-6 hrs. storyline is not overly exaggerated 
 but instead is based on current day political developments. nice what-if type of scenario. really 
 appreciate the focus on foreign forces not just American marines. the arcade mode offers some re-playability 
 as does the finding of the laptops in game to activate special in game mods. arcade mode offers 
 the ability for players who are extremely competitive a bragging right. it is very satisfying to 
 know you achieved a high arcade score. this brings back the nostalgia of when gaming was set in 
 a community and not in suburban homes. the nostalgia of playing games for 25 cents in an arcade 
 is brought back in the arcade mode offered by COD 4. all in all infinity ward has shown that even 
 an updated non-WW2 oriented shooter other than EA's battlefield, is fun to play, albeit the single 
 player campaign is short. be sure to stick around for the credits, there is something to be said 
 about them. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: slayer1974
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 4, 2007 2:21 pm PT
Review:  Having waited so long for the next PC installment of Call of Duty i have to admit that i was pretty 
 unsure as to what to expect from COD 4. 
  
  I installed, watched the intro, tweaked my settings and fired up the single player portion of the 
 game.
  
  The opening piece, the "tutorial", had me a bit worried. I found this boring but i think it's because 
 i'm a FPS and, in particular, aCOD 2 veteran.
  So feeling a little uneasy about whether or not the rest of the game would be as boring i launched 
 into the 1st mission..... Let me just say this: Yes, the game is pretty short but i played through 
 the game twice, back to back. Something i've never done with a game before!
  
  Absolutely awesome!! I don't think i've had as much fun in any single player gam, e before!!
  
 
  After sewing up my wounds and donning a head bandage i decided to tackle the multi-player portion 
 of COD 4. This is where the title of this review comes from - Nearly flawless. The MP is fast, 
 frenetic and fun - never has dying some much been so much fun.
  The ranking system is great but there are some balance issue which i'm sure will be sorted out 
 in upcoming patches!
  
  I can't wait for user made content for this title!!!
  
  In conclusion: BUY This GAME!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: brundlefly76
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 4, 2007 11:09 am PT
Review:  I rarely play single-player games, I tire of 'what does the developer want me to do next?' thats 
 all I ever think playing a single-player game.
  
  In multiplayer-focused games, humans put me in positions where I need to make much more complex 
 decisions. Thats why I really like the Battlefield series.
  
  However, COD4 has put a tremendous amount of successful effort into keeping me constantly interested 
 in whats going on, and rewards me with stunning and often unexpected events.
  
  The graphics and performance are outstanding, and the environments rarely 'lookalike' buildings 
 and or landscapes - the detail is remarkable.
  
  The weapons are also excellent, and the action fast and furious.
  
  A nice touch is something 
 I had always wanted to see in a game, which is the ability to entertain the user regarding the 
 next mission during a map load vs a stupid static screen with a loading progress bar. As a result 
 the pace of the game is never interrupted and you dont even notice the loads.
  
  Finally, the missions are very varied and its not just a building to building shooter - you get 
 realistic sniper missions, long range sniper missions, and even get to blow the hell out of huge 
 troop movements with an AC-130, which is just an amazing level.
  
  This is a great game from a great series by developers who have truly dedicated themselves to perfecting 
 the FPS single-player genre.
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: falcon_52
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 4, 2007 5:55 am PT
Review:  Well, as a fellow gamesportter said in another review, the single player of cod4 it's superb, as 
 we're used to see from call of duty franchaise since cod1, nice missions, great action and a very 
 nicely created storyline and characters.
  
  BUT.... multiplayer is another thing.... I think i felt like crying when I saw those great graphics 
 running like mad men and just bunny hopping and making sideways movements like epileptycs to avoid 
 enemy fire, not to mention the "I must empty my full magazine to kill someone" feature, yes, it 
 has a hardcore mode, but it doesn't help a lot. The maps, I found them a bit boring, I think i 
 like overgrown and pipeline but that's it, all the other maps are designed just to run in circles 
 shooting like a killing fest, absolutely no tactical or strategical principles can be applied, 
 at least not when more than 8 players are online, I played in a 4 people server and it wasn't so 
 bad.
  
  I just feel a bit dissapointed that after 4 or 5 months of forums, developers asking so much things 
 about how we wanted the game to be, realism talk and stuff, they just made a modern CoD2 with prettier 
 graphics. But anyway, I know that making money is a good thing and Call of Duty franchaise has 
 always been a money maker the way it is, but god, I've always wanted to see a game like red orchestra 
 with cod4 graphics... I think the money on that would be equally insane, and the beautiful thing... 
 no bunny hopping kids around... it's like heaven.
  
  A few things I really like about CoD4 MP:
  
  * Graphics
  * Custom Weapon's modification (could 
 be improved though)
  * Bullet penetration on surfaces depending caliber
  * The perks... but this good idea could be seriously improved
  * Unlocking items philosophy keeps 
 the players motivated, I think is the only real challenge in the game.... unlock things.
  
  Thing i don't like:
  
  * Maps are designed for an arcade, shooting fest game style.
  * Game 
 modes are boring and more of the same, not to mention the ugly attempt to fit them in the same 
 arcade, shooting fest maps
  * The only real challenge is to walk 100 meters killing all the enemies making spwn in front of 
 you, and pray you turn around in time to kill them when they respawn behind you.
  * 4 fantastics feature: rubber boy in action, jump from the third floor of a building and RUN away 
 from your enemy
  * SOUND... I'm impressed they haven't done anything about this yet. Devs, in this area your should 
 REALLY play Red Orchestra a couple of hours, you'll hear the difference.
  * Lack of tactical appliance... after 2 hours running, shooting and hopping you really get a bit 
 tired.
  * Many things more....
  
  In conclusion:
  
  Same old thing with a new cover. Fancy graphics and new features, but the game hasn't really improved 
 overall. The arcade philosophy remains, only with tiny glimpses of isolated "realism". 
::::::

::::::
UserName: triplea007
Rating: 6.5
Date: Dec 4, 2007 4:45 am PT
Review:  Excellent SP campaign, but too short, and Multiplayer SUCKS! It seems that games nowadays are aimed 
 at 16 and UNDER instead of 16 and OVER. Yes, the game has BEAUTIFUL graphics... yes, the MP engine 
 seems to be good.... BUT... the gameplay online is just terrible. It's a bunch of running, shooting, 
 bunny hopping, running, shooting, bunny hopping... and having to hit your enemies several times 
 before scoring a kill, plus self healing magic. Ridiculous. The "objectives" for "team based" combat 
 are also a joke. It's a bunch of people running around with no direction, no plan, nothing... just 
 shooting on sight and running some more, and shooting some more. Enemies pop out of every corner. 
 
  
  Sorry, but too much like "counter strike" or "enemy territory" for me. I know, making arcade crap 
 that kids love sells and makes them money, and if the game is "too realistic" then kids would complain 
 that it's too hard. I find that hard to believe. Everyone, regardless of age, gets a kick out realism 
 and all infinity ward/activision has to do is put "difficulty settings" so that kids can tune it 
 down to the crap that it's now. But let those of us grown ups who enjoy making a plan, building 
 a strategy, and play OUR ROLES in the squad, make a decent and believable takeover of an objective 
 like you would in America's Army or Red Orchestra.
  
  Played 15 mins to check it out, played 15 more to be able to say that I truly hated MP. 
  
 
  The single player campaign is another thing. Beautiful but too short and full of infinite bots 
 that just keep poping up until you trigger a waypoint. It forces you to run through the whole game 
 without being able to actually enjoy any tactics or the surroundings. Same as every other COD in 
 that sense. Plus, the enemy always knows where you are and you're constantly showered with grenades. 
 I'd like to see the review of real soldiers playing this game.. heck, even airsoft players would 
 have a lot to complain about. 
  
  I'm not saying it's a bad game, if you enjoy Battlefield (the stupidest games ever with the potential 
 to be the very best) , then I STRONGLY suggest you get this title. But if you're the serious type 
 player who actually plans to play intelligently online, then KEEP AWAY from this game. I'm selling 
 mine. 50 euros for 3 hours of gameplay is not worth it.
  
  What a nice way to throw away the most beautiful game I've ever seen. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xxxtriplex
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 4, 2007 3:15 am PT
Review:  Is so rare to find a game that involves the player with the game story... i ask game developers 
 ... if nowadays is more difficult to create creative games why dont make a good story with good 
 cut scenes during the action ?... with drama... and not just press "USE" on a lost laptop on a map 
 and "getting information from the enemy" ... i ask what is the reason to have these if in the end 
 it isnt useful for nothing : ( ... the trick .. i think ... is create games less arcade ... and more 
 ... "like a movie" ... a good story and involving the character (player) with the game is what makes 
 the difference. My congratulations to MAFIA game ... the best involving game ever made. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: killtek
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 3, 2007 7:09 pm PT
Review:  It appears that most of you are under the impression that the multi-player in COD4 is what I call 
 "noob console multiplayer". And if you play on normal servers, you are probably experiencing annoying 
 spawn camping and all out nade spam chaos... 
  
  Infinity to the rescue.....
  
  There' s a built in Modification by the developers called "WarfareMod" (selectable from multi-player 
 menu under "Mods") that allows you to join servers that run in "Hardcore" mode. This means no HUD, 
 no grenade warning, and most of all, one shot kills!!!! If you want a real challenge then you need 
 to look for servers that have "Hardcore" in their names. And if you're wondering if your ranks 
 and perks will work and grow in "hardcore" servers, yes they will. If you want real teamwork and 
 tactics then hardcore servers running Search & Destroy is your calling. If you want faster pace 
 teamwork then hardcore Sabotage is your calling.
  
  I've played them all: CS: Source, BF1942 DesertCombat mod, BF2, BF2142, Rainbow 6 Las Vegas.. etc.. 
 etc.. and NONE OF THEM compare to the COD4 HARDCORE experience.... PERIOD!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: rocket1010
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 3, 2007 7:02 pm PT
Review:  this game has the great game play that everyone has come to love, and expect from the call of duty 
 series and combines it with the adrenaline of actually shooting someone in real life. that is how 
 good the graphics look on this superb piece of gaming "literature." this game could easily set 
 the new standard for new FPS's that are soon coming. This my friends is the new gold standard of 
 gaming. I am not alone on this opinion, gameinformer recently gave this game a perfect 10 in the 
 latest issue. If halo addicts would open their eyes, they would like this game lots better than 
 their current drug (Halo.) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Settler87
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 3, 2007 2:31 pm PT
Review:  Call Of Duty 4 is my only catching game this year with Crysis of course. New story, new gameplay, 
 new soldiers and new techniques that is exactly what the war needs theses days ... Graphism AMBITIOUS 
 this level of details made my Geforce 8600 GT working perfectly with all its performance, shading 
 is Almost very correctly Done by Activision department. Gameplay is a very successfull point in 
 COD4 with more evolutive techniques like nocturne view and dogs attacks which i enjoy knocking 
 thier necks :D Sound relly Amazing with very quality effects and haute definitions sounds. I enjoyed 
 every moment playing COD4, i got some trouble to get out from some missions of course but Advanced 
 level is my must play because i enjoyed playing COD2 before :)
  Anyways Million Claps to Activision for this Awesome FPS game and the road will be continued on 
 the same steps ... 00
  Y 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mark_webster_87
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 28, 2007 5:55 am PT
Review:  After the big disappointment of COD 3 as a console only game, I had been itching for a new COD 
 game on the PC and now the time has come....
  
  Graphically the game is fantastic and shows that despite the new age of Direct X 10, that DX 9 
 can look just as good. The levels look stunning and when you enter a big firefight, your jaw can 
 just drop though it would be better to keep your mind on the bullets coming your way. The only 
 little gripe you could give is the guns could probably have a little more detail in on them but 
 thats only a very small thing.
  
  Soundwise, the game is perfect and you would think at times, that you are really on the battlefield 
 and not at home playing. Everything sounds like it should be from the bullets to the fantastic 
 communication between your team especially with the SAS levels which are my favourite bits of the 
 game.
  
  Gameplay is really the normal gun and shoot but COD 4 tries to shake things up at time by giving 
 you weapons you might not normally use like RPG's, Javelins and the sniper assassination scene 
 during the Price flashback level. Also since this is the first COD game to use modern weapons, 
 that helps keep things fresh to an extent.
  
  The AI itself is superb for the most parts, with good fluid communication between you and your 
 team and the enemy will try to get around you keeping it challenging. AI won't normally run out 
 and get shoot so thats a good plus but now and again your team will be a bit slow to follow you 
 and may not watch your back properly, which can lead to a few annoying moments.
  
  Online so far is the best of all the COD games and offers more with the new ranking system and 
 more game-modes. However the ranking system is short and perks like Last Stand/Martyrdom have no 
 place in the game. In my opinion I don't know what the point is of having airstrikes and helicopters 
 in a infantry only game with very small maps. speaking of the maps I also feel that some of the 
 them are just too small, even for COD but the online play is still worth giving a go.
  
  Overall despite a few short comings like a short single player and one or two fixes needed for 
 online play, Call of Duty 4 has one hell of an amazing story driven single player with great action 
 both off and online, making this game top dog for 2007 in the FPS genre and maybe even Game of 
 the year. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pdbn
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 3, 2007 3:50 am PT
Review:  Best game ever in my opinion. Cant beat this game. Multi player competitive play is addicting. 
 There's two ways to go. If your just playing for fun and want to get nuts the public servers are 
 full of guns, explosions, helicopter support, air strikes, nades, C4, claymore mines and about 
 30 people going crazy on each other. There is objective game types and just all out killing. The 
 other way to go is join a clan (group of gamers who play the game together) and get into the competition 
 side of the game. They take out most of the craziness and leave a more skillfull, quieter, and 
 much more enjoyable game taking out the grenade launchers, limiting nades and guns and perks, no 
 helicopter or air strikes, c4 or claymores. The game is modded in a lot of ways and you will become 
 an addict like me :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dark_Spartan192
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 2, 2007 10:24 pm PT
Review:  The Call of Duty games have been great from the start but the one problem I always had was the 
 WWII setting. There must be something about the mass killing and combat of WWII that makes developers 
 keep making more of those games. Sure is fun to play but what about today? Well with the new move 
 to Modern Warfare the game only gets better.
  
  GRAPHICS
  -------------------------------------------------
  This game is an amazing visual accomplishment. 
 From the giant landscapes to the cold steel of your rifle the game seems to come alive around you. 
 You almost start to wonder how they did it all. Well they have and it is a great asset to COD4.
 
  
  SOUND
  --------------------------------------------------
  The game has an amazing amount of dialog in it! From your enemies yelling out and your allies calling 
 in on the radios it makes the game incredibly immerse. The Weapons all sound like thier real life 
 counterparts and the effects are top-noch.
  
  SINGLE PLAYER
  --------------------------------------------------
  The single player campaign is a great experience 
 and is where you see what the experience of 3 previous games comes in. The story is top-noch nd 
 the game never makes you feel confused on what you have to do. The AI is fairly intelligent and 
 so are your allied NPCs.
  
  
  MULTIPLAYER
  --------------------------------------------------
  Many people have plated COD multiplayer and 
 it has been great for the past games. In modern warfare it only gets better with the new weapons 
 and of course perks. The perks are great enhancements to your playing strategy and can really help 
 you out of some dangerous situations. 
  
  So as a summary I give:
  Graphics= 9.0
  Sound= 9.5
  Single Player= 9.0
  Multiplayer= 9.5
  
  Overall= 9.5 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: epyon346
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 2, 2007 9:52 pm PT
Review:  When I first popped in my DVD, I most definitely had high hopes after rampaging through the demo. 
 The change from WWII made was great for me since I've been getting sick of playing through a single 
 time period. 
  
  After the install finished, I booted up the game, single player first. The game rolls opening credits 
 over a scene which the player witnesses through the eyes of a Middle-Eastern president, and it 
 sets the stage for the coming attraction. I won't spoil it for you, but it definitely does its 
 job of pumping the player up for the missions to come.
  
  Throughout the entirety of the game, you play as either Sgt. Paul Jackson of the U. S. Marine Corps 
 or Sgt. John "Soap" MacTavish of the British S. A. S. The story and goings on in the world keep the 
 player drawn in and the different events happening to Jackson and Soap are enough to keep you playing 
 into the wee hours of the night.
  
  While the single player campaign is somewhat on the short side with a few difficult spots, the 
 multiplayer action is the real hook. For the most parts, it's a blast, but some servers run high 
 numbers of players in free-for-all death matches and will occasionally change to minuscule maps 
 such as 'Shipment.' There are tons of modes to keep the fun going and challenges that can be performed 
 along the way. 
  
  Leveling up ranks is another bit the guys at Infinity Ward added to keep players entertained and 
 interested from the get-go. Increasing ranks, and subsequently challenges, will unlock new weapons, 
 camo, attachments, and various "perks" to customize your online player. These perks give the player 
 anything from extra bullet damage to being able to pull out one's pistol and shoot before dying, 
 or being undetectable to enemy radar and having extra help.
  
  In the long run, the game is great and worth playing, especially if you're looking for some online 
 multiplayer action. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cheezedoodle999
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 2, 2007 2:01 pm PT
Review:  Jeff is possibly the best reviewer Gamespot has ever had, BRING HIM BACK. Otherwise this site is 
 ruined. I did this in a review because they can't lock reviews (unlike in forums) . If anyone agrees 
 that Jeff should come back, agree with this review, it would most definitely help.
  
  BRING JEFF BACK
  
  
  
  Call of Duty 4 is also a great game. REVIEWED BY JEFF GERSTMANN.
 
  
  
  
  
  FF F F F F F F F F F F F F F F F F F F F F F F F F F F F F F F F F F F F (done to reach 100 word 
 minimum) f f ff f f f f f f f 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jimmyjit
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 2, 2007 3:46 am PT
Review:  I was amazed by what this game has accomplished. It was easy to learn and truly fun to play. To 
 bounce back and forth from British Special forces to US Marines made the game interesting in that 
 the anticipation for the next level was engulfing. One of the best boards was being in the C-130 
 using the computer to shoot at the terrorists from the sky. The project team has set a standard 
 for what these games should look like and be from now on. The choice of weaponry was vast in that 
 anything in the game could be used by both sides. Being able to flank on each level was an impovement 
 for EA. This is a must for anyone wanting to play a modern first person shooter. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: koleny
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 2, 2007 11:07 pm PT
Review:  The game is just amazing, it's cracked up to be what it was supposed to be. 
  
  If we start with the graphics I'm pretty sure that you won't be very disappointed on any system. 
 I played the game on low and I still think the graphics are very smooth, also the game is very 
 well optimized so it won't lag at all (almost) . If your running a top notch system, your having 
 some sexy eye candy.
  
  The gameplay is still great, they managed to keep the Call of Duty feeling in this one. Even if 
 it's modern warefare. The minus in single player is that you have to move forward to stop enemies 
 to spawn but you get used to it after a while. But it's very annoying if you play on veteran. Also 
 your friendly AI is worthless, they are pretty dumb and very slow. But it is not very annoying 
 though, you can survive that.
  I won't bash the single player anymore, the single player do have some good stuff to. The game 
 has a cool story and it's told in a very cool way. When you play the game a lot of cool things 
 happen ingame. The single player is pretty short, but if you play on harder difficulty this game 
 will provide you 10hours+ of gameplay.
  
  Multiplayer is what makes this game even better, it's just well made and plain fun. The multiplayer 
 runs the game on worse graphics then single player to keep it from laging and that's really great. 
 What's new in the Call of Duty 4 multiplayer is that you can create your own class and chose what 
 weapons you want to use. But you also gain ranks from playing online and completing challenges. 
 When you gain a rank you unlock new weapons and perks to use in your new classes. Perks is a fantastic 
 addons, you can make yourself to reload faster or drop a hand grenade when you die. Anyhow the 
 challenges was a great addon the the game I really love them and I'm trying to complete them all, 
 but as the name says, they are challenging.
  
  I recommend this game to anyone who likes shooters or games from the Call of Duty franchise. Anyway 
 if you don't like multiplayer very much the single player won't disappoint you but it's the multiplayer 
 that makes this game so great. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: alcore2k4
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 2, 2007 12:39 am PT
Review:  Just simply the best FPS. It's just like if we were on the battlefield, of course, because a lot 
 of scripting, but it so amazing !
  But I have to play Crysis before saying CoD 4 is the best FPS. 
  That's a good point that CoD4 
 does'nt need a great config like Crysis. With a minimum of power (GeForce 6800 GT, Athlon 3400+ 
 ) , you enjoy COD.
  
  However, it's hard to compare Cysis or Half Life Episode 2 to CoD series. They are all FPS, but 
 if you prefer to shoot "real warriors" CoD4 is the best, (I'm fed up to kill aliens all the time...) .
 
  
  Immersive, amazing, highly addictive, best in series... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sjarman
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 1, 2007 7:54 pm PT
Review:  Loved it, loved it, loved it. I can't rave about this game enough. I think the benefit has been 
 playing this and Crisis at the same time, because it's naturally led me to compare the two. This 
 game is just so absorbing and the atmosphere is incredibly tense. If you've ever seen and enjoyed 
 the movie Black Hawk Down, this game is just like being dropped right into that movie. In comparison, 
 Crisis has just bored me to tears. Given the choice between buying Call of Duty 4, or buying Crisis, 
 there's honestly no decision to be made. Pick up Call of Duty 4 and settle in for one hell of an 
 experience. And sure, the single-player campaign is fairly short, but I started it again the moment 
 I finished it. I'd rather play through an awesome, short game multiple times, then labour through 
 a lengthy bore-fest once. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Imigrant71
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 1, 2007 5:38 pm PT
Review:  This is the kind of game that makes it worth upgrading your PC for! Trust me. COD 4 is simply the 
 best of the series, the best realistic military shooter and the best looking game I've layed my 
 hands on.
  
  The best part is the ability to play as the SAS and US Marines, or better Marine. Weaponry, environment, 
 voice over, weather, story, characters, graphics are all done extremely well.
  
  One missions really stock in my head; the "Death from above" mission, where I got to provide group 
 support by getting on .50 Cal. Cannons and/or Rail Guns on a patrolling C130! Just like you saw 
 on CNN (the footage of guided bombs hitting buildings during Operation Desert Storm, remember? 
 Same thing) , the mission is all viewed/played through the sights of Heat or Night Vision techs. 
 It's simply awesome, no other shooter I've played has offered such mission, especially how realistic 
 it feels. I kinda felt a little guilty shooting at the enemies... it got me thinking, this is exactly 
 why I rate COD4 the best shooter yet, it got me thinking... it delivered a real experience! 
  
  The sniper missions are another great example of the tremendous work the guys at Infity Ward 
 have put into the game. I don't want to give the missions away, but the realism or being a sniper 
 is taken to the next level here... again, trust me, buy the game and you'll experience what I'm 
 talking about.
  
  Activision, you have a great franchise in your hands, keep up the great work, your marketing strategies 
 has worked beautifully! 
  
  One little thing: Single player too short! Why?!?!? I want more! 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: BrGabriel
Rating: 6.5
Date: Dec 1, 2007 4:28 pm PT
Review:  First of all it's worth saying that this is one of the best looking games I've played in a while 
 - everything about it is gritty and realistic. The sound is also top notch. And the combination 
 of the two make this a highly atmospheric experience. 
  
  Those however are the good bits. There are a number of less good elements that badly marr the playing 
 experience:
  
  1. Tactics in this game are largely irrelevant because of the endlessly spawning opponents and 
 your largely invincible and/or infinitely replaced team mates. The only way of stopping the endlessly 
 respawning enemy is to advance to certain pre-set waypoints at which point they appear to almost 
 magically vanish, perhaps because the respawning is abruptly switched off. And then you advance 
 to the next respawning point. The only tactic that seems to work is outflanking and/or madly running 
 from cover to cover without pause until you trigger a waypoint. This seems particularly apparent 
 in the US marine missions.
  
  2. Grenades - I still haven't worked out the game rules for these since there appears to be almost 
 no link between enemy opponent movement or behaviour and their sudden arrival, often in clusters. 
 This has the effect of adding to the manic respawning to make tactics such as advancing slowly 
 under cover often completely pointless because you are just flushed out with grenade after grenade.
 
  
  3. Telepathic knowledge of your position - this has to be one of the worst examples of a game using 
 knowledge that the enemy simply couldn't have to make sure that they are aiming at you or even 
 firing at you as you appear from hard cover, even if you have circled around. The best example 
 of this is in one fight in which an armoured vehicle is pinning your team down. If you duck into 
 the cellar, move out of the back of the building to move behind the vehicle (to try to plant C4) 
 it has miraculously starting reversing back up the road away from you - HOW DOES IT KNOW YOU ARE 
 THERE? Again tactics are pointless - the only thing the game rewards is speed of movement.
  
  4. Team mate AI - not quite as bad as in previous iterations of CoD but not great - again mitigating 
 against real tactics
  
  Overall this is a great looking but ultimately very irritating game. It hasn't moved on a great 
 deal since CoD 2 - just looks a lot prettier. All the CoD 2 problems are still here - endless respawning 
 that rewards mad running about firing while punishing any attempt to use reasonable infantry tactics. 
 In a game that focuses so much on FIBUA this is really almost unforgiveable.
  And if the designers are going to make the game a random shootfest it would be better to allow 
 players to be able to save when they want to rather than leave it to the game to make the decision. 
 We're not children (excluding those playing the on-line option) . Allowing players to save when 
 they want allows them to adjust the game severity to their skill level. Forcing players to get 
 to waypoints before the game saves for them isn't 'challenging and fun' its just tedious.
  
  And that really is the most frustrating thing - this really is nothing more than CoD 2 dressed 
 up in new graphics. Nothing else has improved or changed. Indeed in many ways the tendency to rely 
 on atmosphere generated by huge numbers of enemy troops and a constant hail of fire from overwhelming 
 odds is actually much worse. That is all the game seems to have to offer and it just feels manic 
 and a little pointless. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: moriel73
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 1, 2007 11:55 am PT
Review:  Call of Duty 4: Modern Warfare is by far one of the most realistic games I have ever played. Wither 
 you are a passenger in the back of a car, or if you are trying to escape from a sinking ship. This 
 game brings real life physics into a video game. The graphics are amazing, the weapons are realistic, 
 the Single player is outstanding, and the online play seems to be one of my favorites so far. The 
 Storyline in this game is great. 
  Graphics are spectacular. Game control is flawless. Options are endless. Either single player or 
 multi-player can be played for months! I am typically not a fan of FPF.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: dudeXgoreXcore
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 1, 2007 11:41 am PT
Review:  Oh yeah...... I got the new Call Of Duty and it blew me of the chair (apparently the headphone volume 
 was on max) .
  
  The Graphics have improved since COD2. No more "same 4 types of death for the bad guys" there are 
 PHYSICS now, and whats really good about it, is that the "same 4 types of death that are now much 
 more types" are combined with physics so there wont be any situations like a terrorist lying on 
 a ledge with half of his body on the ground and half in the air there is something to lay on.
 
  Overall the graphics are amazing and the characters look very good.
  
  The sound is just pure quality. I was very happy when i heard something different from the old 
 nazis annoying yells. There are still those orchestra melodies sometime that fill you with awesomeness. 
 Oh and the weapons sound just kick ass.
  
  Gameplay is just  Although the campaign is over before you know 
 it it makes up for it with great story that is filled with action and twists. Weapons look and 
 feel modern and its a joy to shoot with them.
  
  Its a great game and you must get it if you haven't already.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Scout19d10
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 1, 2007 11:29 am PT
Review:  STARTED JUST LIKE MOST SHOOTERS, BUT TAKES OFF FOR SPACE. LEAVES YOU URNING FOR MORE!!!! COVERS 
 MANY ASPECTS OF THE MILITARY EXPERIEANCE IS NOTHING SIMPLE OR PLAIN ON THIS GAME. THE STORY IS 
 GOOD, GAME PAY AMAZING!!!! WILL REPLAY OF DIFFERENT LEVELS OF DIFFICULTY! THE ONLY BAD THING IS 
 I WISH IT HAD MORE SOCOM FORCES, LIKE DELTA, GREEN BERETS, SEALs, TACP, ETC....... ALSO WISH YOU 
 COULD PICK WEAPONS. STILL GREAT. BEST MISSION HAD GOT TO BE THE SNIPER OR THE AC-130!!! THIS WILL 
 MAKE GAMES LIKE RAINBOW 6 THINK, AND WORK FOR THE NEXT LEVEL. I HAVE NEVER SEEN A BAD GAME FROM 
 CALL OF DUTY, BUT THIS TAKES IT HIGHER. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Zell_Forever
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 1, 2007 1:51 am PT
Review:  The solo campaign of COD4 starts off with a bang.
  It's clear immediately that the game has a Counter-Terrorism theme running throughout, and you 
 will be playing for both the American and British sides, and sometimes for both at the same time.
 
  The training mission where you have some target practice to learn the controls, and then an obstacle 
 course where your performance automatically rates your skills, and thus sets the difficulty is 
 quite a novel idea. If you disagree with the rating though, you can either try the obsticle course 
 again, or manually set the difficulty rating that you would like to play with.
  
  Once those preliminaries are done with, you jump straight into the action.. literally, out of a 
 helicopter, and onto a ship in the raging sea where you have to take out some terrorists.
  This mission is quite easy, and ends up on you having to escape the ship, because it's sinking. 
 This easyness is meant to acclimatise you to the game, and will not be present past the second 
 mission.
  Activision have done a really good job of making you feel like you are in the ship, however for 
 someone who has problems with motion sickness, like myself, it's a little too good.. Nonetheless, 
 this feeling of immersion will be felt throughout the game, with small touches such as the player 
 moving his head sideways as he reloads his weapon.. again the motion sickness comes into play here 
 with all these motions while you're in the midst of an intense firefight, but it shouldn't bother 
 anybody unless their framerate is not smooth. My PC is abit old, hence it incresed the motion to 
 make me feel sick after each gaming session. Nonetheless, the game is so good, I kept coming back 
 for more.
  
  What does COD4 bring, that is different to any other FPS game, or even to previous COD installments?
 
  While the overall feel of COD4 is practically the same as COD2, COD4 is different to any other 
 FPS, in that you actually see what it's like for the soldiers in America, and other allied countries, 
 who are fighting terrorism.
  This realism allows you to do many fun things, such as piloting a helicopter gunship and taking 
 out terrorists just like you may have seen in those youtube videos.. and by God, it looks so real, 
 at first I thought they were playing a cut scene... It even felt real once you were shooting them 
 down.
  This is not the only novelty in the single player campaign... You get to do a plethora of things, 
 including calling in air support from helicopters or airplanes, shooting different types of weapons 
 out of helicopters in the desert, and more. Much more.
  
  While the story at first was abit fuzzy, it becomes really clear at the end of the game.
  No, 
 this isn't an rpg type storyline with twists and turns.. You are simply eliminating terrorism and 
 trying to prevent atrocities from occurring. However in the beginning it's not quite clear what's 
 going on behind the scenes, but you get over it once you start shooting them terries up.
  The guns, sounds, and supporting soldiers are all as you'd expect from the team that brought you 
 COD2.. It's just brilliant, and helps immerse you in the game.
  The solo campaign, as stated by Gamespot, may not be the longest around, but after playing through 
 once, I definitely feel like playing through again. And I'm the kind of person who usually puts 
 a completed game in the game cabinet forever, however COD4's single player campaign was so innovative 
 and immersive, that I know it's going to be really fun playing through again.
  
  The multiplayer is really similar to COD2, with the broken down towns, and different units to choose 
 from with the different weapon sets.
  However it's a welcome change for those (including myself) who have still been playing COD2 at 
 lans till this day.
  The professional gaming community have also quickly changed to COD4, finally putting COD2 to rest, 
 which shows that you will not be disappointed by the multiplayer in COD4 either.
  
  I can truly recommend this game to anybody who still enjoys a solid FPS now and again.
  Not only 
 is this game as immersive as they come, but it has tons of replay value, in that you will probably 
 want to play the single player campaign again, and of course the multiplayer for a long time to 
 come.
  Activision have done a great job yet again, and COD4 shines really bright among the AAA titles 
 that have been released in Q4 2007. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rigges
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 30, 2007 6:18 am PT
Review:  The first video ever released of Call of Duty 4 didn't look overly impressive with many people 
 commenting that it looks like it had been rendered on the old Call of Duty 2 engine, but the game 
 has come a long way since then.
  
  Call of Duty 4 opens big, runs short and is a hell of a ride all the way to the end. The game is 
 based around modern day events such as trouble in the middle-east escalating to such a point that 
 American and British forces have to be sent in to save the world (and literally so in the case 
 of this story) . As with it's predecessors, COD4 puts you in the role of more than one hero which 
 makes up this blockbuster style story, but this time they use that very fact to drive the story 
 even further and leading itself to moments in the game where you find yourself in situations you 
 really never want to experience in real life, giving an emotional impact to "the horrors of war" 
 that have never been achieved in quite such an emotional way before.
  
  Besides the story, the graphics are beautifully rendered on an engine infinity ward worked on just 
 for this game. In includes all the nicest features of bump mapping, HDR lighting and has a beautiful 
 particle system which is used to the most dramatic effect in the sniper level of the single player 
 campaign.
  
  Although the game runs for only 5 hours, it does so much in that time and covers so much ground 
 that you won't feel cheated at all. In fact the game delivers so much content in that time that 
 there is never a dull moment, never a time you are walking around aimlessly trying to find your 
 objective.
  
  To make up for the short playing time, an arcade mode is also included where you can play through 
 the whole campaign again (or choose a level) trying to clock up a score through head-shots, knife 
 kills and difficulty level. In this mode you can also pick up intelligence laptops that you may 
 have missed the first time which once all collected will open up further unlocks in the game.
 
  
  The multiplayer is an incredible experience, reminiscent of Counter-Strike and the impact that 
 had when it "first" came out, yet COD4 pushes the excitement to new levels while still looking 
 incredible in the process. The game feel can chance totally depending on game type and number of 
 players meaning every game will remind enjoyable.
  
  The ranking system is also a nice addition where you can unlock perks and weapons and other upgrades 
 as you gain xp in game. The great thing about this ranking system is that it doesn't give any player 
 an unfair advantage as you are limited to 3 perks only meaning even the highest ranked player, 
 although having access to a larger number of perks, will only be able to use the same number as 
 a lower ranked player at any one time.
  
  So, an amazing multiplayer an Hollywood style single player makes COD4 one of the best games of 
 this year, and that isn't easy considering the more than impressive selection made available in 
 the last few months, this is a must buy. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: SergioCarr
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 30, 2007 3:42 am PT
Review:  I must say I'm not a multiplayer kind of guy ... I havent got the time .. so I'll be reviewing 
 the single player campaign only.
  
  First thing I noticed is that the engine is very soft on the hardware compared to the latest games 
 coming out this fall .. My E6550, 2Mb Ram with a 8800GTS runs the game 1280x1024 (max. of my monitor) 
 full details, with very decent frame rate, so I could enjoy all the graphics in full detail. But 
 the best is it's gameplay; fast, very fast action, very addicting ... The storyline is also very 
 exiting and the few cut-off scenes add to the whole picture ...
  
  The sound is not as good, but it's no bad either ... it's just doesn't add anything.
  
  Some 
 moves can be tricky to make, especially if you play it (like me) with a standard 3 button mouse. 
 But if you have a proper mouse you can configure some important moves like frag grenades and switching 
 weapon to other mouse buttons making it easier to play.
  
  Having the possibility to shoot from a choper canon or trying to shoot a terrorist with a super 
 sniper riffle from 900mts it's a great plus .. the whole map of the super sniper is my favourite 
 of the whole game.
  
  The big problem is indeed the short single player campaign .. it's much too short and it's over 
 in a second ...
  
  The learning curve is very fast, even for me that had never played a COD before and the overall 
 game difficulty is very low ..
  
  In conclusion it's a very fast, action full, very fun game to play but if you are not into multiplayer 
 mode it's not worth the money, hence my 8.5 score ... otherwise I'd give it one point more.
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: legice
Rating: 4
Date: Nov 30, 2007 1:34 am PT
Review:  Horrible! They forgot what was the point of COD. Just like any other modern shooter (the last few 
 years) it's just horrible. Whats new,.... you got a laser ,that you can see only when using Night 
 Vision, but you still have a high-tech thing on the gun ,that helps you aim. Those 2 things being 
 used together is just stupid. Sprinting is just stupid and it dosen't help much! When you shoot, the 
 recoil is stupid. You can kill everyone, because the recoil isn't enough of a challenge. Reloading 
 is boring, I mean to reload a weapon can be hard as hell, but here it's like a feather.1,2,3 your 
 done and you don't have the feel, that it is hard to do it. The enemy loves you, he shoots everyone, but 
 hits only you. Whats wrong here, the team get's to be hit 20 times and they still live, but you get 
 a shot, only 1 shot of a ak-47 and you die. OK ,it looks like I got lucky and got an quick and not 
 painful version of death. wrong! A guy with a pistol did the same thing and by by. Skill lvl, on easy 
 it's too easy, on very hard, it's too hard. In COD 1 and 2 you had a chance, but here you go in a second. Hello 
 death! No rifles, the biggest mistake of them all. ONLY rifle servers are a thing of the past, now 
 it's just no talent shooting around.
  Well thats what I think of this game, you may think what you like.
  To me ,this game is simply 
 disapointing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ltfan15
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 29, 2007 3:58 pm PT
Review:  first off ill i have to say is that i love this game i really need to buy it. i rented it and i 
 loved it. the best war game i have ever played maybe the best game i have ever played. for christmas 
 im getting this game. the online is the best online i have ever played. there is not many types 
 of games to play but the ones you can play are amazing. you have basic deathmatch and team deathmatch 
 then you got games like two on two. capture the flag, and a couple others. another great thing 
 about the online is that you have so many chocies in weapons, special abilitys, clothes. The online 
 can be very addictive. if you grow levels you get to unlock different abilitys and weapons. i really 
 cant say enough good things about this game. Back to the campign. its just like the other cod's 
 with some slight twists i wont give anything away but the ending of this game is one of the best 
 endings to any game i have ever played. serousily you guys need to pick this game up if you just 
 bought a 360 or if youve had one for a while. no more talking i have to go pick this game up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thomaja
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 29, 2007 3:01 pm PT
Review:  I am still playing the demo which has the same system requirements as the game. My PC is a Pentium 
 4, 512mb of RAM, and a Radeon 9500 video card and I've been running it at full detail with NO SLOWDOWN 
 OR GLITCHES! SWEET! The game is so full of awesomeness, I may invade a country myself! How one 
 game can be packed with so much gut stomping ownage is beyond the capabilities of my tiny brain 
 to comprehend! It's so good, I may reinlist! The AI on both my team and the opposing force is so 
 good, I feel the need afterwards to sit down, have an MRE, smoke some cigarettes and look at naked 
 pictures of my wife she sent me the last time I was back at Camp Semper Fi! 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Elfin
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 29, 2007 10:26 am PT
Review:  This game has it all. A great single player campaign, albeit a little short, it still packs a punch. 
 I played the game through and am already to start on my second time through. There is simply too 
 much to see and feel the first time through to absorb it all. I need more. If this sounds like 
 a glowing review you're correct. I can't remember the last time I enjoyed a game this much.
  
  After the single player campaign is completed you open up the Arcade mode where you can choose 
 any level or the entire game to try with points for kills to see how many points you can complete 
 with. This is a unique method of game play for a FPS and it adds lots of replay fun to the single 
 player.
  
  There is also a multi-player portion to the game that adds all of the typical on-line style game 
 types, Free for all, Team death match and so forth, but there's an added twist, as you get XP for 
 doing certain challenges and kills. this allows you to Create your own character profiles, these 
 let you select different main and backup weapons, explosives and Perks. So you can customize your 
 class to your taste. While these bonuses will not make you invincible against other players they 
 do add some value to your character since you can have your preferences all set up.
  
  Well not sure what else to say about this game, except to say once again i love this game. If you 
 like a great single player campaign, a great on-line FPS and lots of fun then this game is for 
 you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NeoWilson
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 29, 2007 5:04 am PT
Review:  It's truly a masterpiece, I've waited for this game so long and I have to said IW did not disappointed 
 me at all. The SP may be "over in a flash" but it's action packed, good story and feature one of 
 the best ending scene and it has re-playable value. MP are very good too, lot's of thing to unlock 
 and lots of fun. The graphic is stunning even when it run on low-end machine, the only downsize 
 is that it doesn't support high/very high solution. I would give it a 9.7 out of ten but since 
 GP doesn't support that rating system anymore and 9.5 is too low, I gave it a 10/10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: WhitePower69
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 29, 2007 1:53 am PT
Review:  COD4 is a "modern" warfare Fps game. It focuses around an army theme with some elements of the 
 fabled SAS and even terrorist forces. 
  
  Single player is fun and although it is short , it offers about as much content as one would want 
 considering the real fun is in the multi player modes.
  
  Multi player is where this game shines , it can be extremely competitive with very few players 
 unable to land at least a few kills in one map. I will talk about the multi player aspect as i 
 feel it is why this game is better than the norm.
  
  The Good : COD4 has incredible graphics , i am running on a duo core 2.4 with 2k ram and a nivida 
 8800 gts. With most settings maxed and resolution on 1600x1050 ive found the game to be stunningly 
 realistic. But pretty things alone don't make a game great. In addition to awesome graphics , i 
 will give credit to the dev's for there work in making the scenery and gun fights feel like your 
 there. Little things like dust covering your screen from a grenade the blew up near you or the 
 wind changing when a helicopter comes past , all of these little things make the game feel VERY 
 much like your at the heart of fierce gun fight. The game gets very intense at times and will give 
 you a big thrill. As far as the longitivity of game is concerned , there are many different weapons 
 to choose from to keep things interesting. However in terms of how you actually play the game it 
 is much similar to most Tactical Shooters. You usually will do better if you camp points on the 
 map and pick of targets as they come unsuspectingly past. Though this is the core of so many games 
 already , it really is quite fun in COD4 due to the great map designs and again realistic environments.
 
  
  The Bad : Well the bad , every game has some bad points and COD4 is no exception. I feel there 
 is a bit of an issue with some of the guns. Some Snipers are incredibly fake. They will some times 
 stone cold miss even though you have the enemy lined up. This is more than likely to add balance 
 which i can understand but still feel is frustrating at times. And actually further to the point 
 on guns , there is a bit of an issue with explosives being spammed. In game modes like Team Death 
 match every time you re spawn you get another round of explosives e. g Frag nades or nades for your 
 launcher attachment. It becomes a bit spammy at times which is a bit of a downside if you don't 
 like to stay hidden for long periods. One more bad point to mention is again the graphics. Alot 
 of this games shine is due to the realistic graphics and environments. They make the game VERY 
 INTENSE at times and it really is what puts COD4 above the crop as such. IF you have a poor system 
 you will probably not get the same experience as other users. I realize that it is up to the player 
 to have a good system but there are many games out there with bad graphics that are instant classics 
 purely due to there game play.
  
  
  In summary, if you have a medium to high end machine and love WAR themed FPS/Tactical Shooters 
 than COD4 will offer you an intense action packed game with a challenging multi player experience. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PatientChaos
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 28, 2007 8:58 pm PT
Review:  First of all, I'd like to congratulate Activision and Infinity Ward on moving on from the World 
 War II setting at exactly the right time. If this game was once again set in World War II, a lot 
 of devoted players to the series I know, such as myself, would have stopped playing. The modern 
 theme is perfect, and the story is sculpted phenomenally well.
  
  ==MOVEMENT== I myself own the PC version of the game, and have not played the PS3 or X360 versions. 
 Walking is smooth, and sprinting is even smoother. The crouch and prone positions are once again 
 well-made. Realistic slow-down on flash and stun grenades, and very real stumbles when shot. Reloading 
 is very realistic.
  
  ==WEAPONS== Who can resist the wide variety of weapons you get with COD4. The Javelin, in my opinion, 
 is the best weapon in any FPS to date. Watching the missile come down on enemy tanks raises my 
 heartbeat to the point where I fall short of breath. Grenades are well designed, and the throwing 
 range is perfect. 
  
  ==ENVIRONMENT== One Word - Realistic. Bullets penetrate materials. A great addition to any FPS 
 that wants to be worth its name. The floating dust and debris make the environment look so real 
 that you find yourself coughing when in a dusty area. The people around you are extremely well 
 designed. There is a perfect play on light and shadow.
  
  ==STORYLINE== As I said in the introduction, it is extremely well sculpted. I mean, the game feels 
 like an interactive movie. You could sit there watching the cut scenes and enjoy yourself. Character 
 development is great. The people you play with are very well designed in terms of emotions and 
 personalities. One great feature is that EVERYONE has a name. When you position your crosshair 
 over the characters, you always find yourself looking at a rank and a name. This makes you feel 
 like you went through training camp with all your fellow soldiers, and that you know them all personally.
 
  
  ==MULTIPLAYER== This is where this game truly shines. Never before have I played an online FPS 
 with such depth as COD4. The rank system is perfectly executed. You gain experience as you make 
 kills, assist your teammates in making kills, call in air support, and most importantly, you get 
 large amounts of experience by completing a wide variety of fun and original challenges. The max 
 rank is 55, and I found it too easy to get to. In the next patch I hope to see them raising the 
 max rank by 10, if not more.
  
  This game has such an amazing playability factor, and that, in my opinion, is what makes Call Of 
 Duty 4 a landmark in video games.
  
  
  Peace Out
  PatientCHAOS
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Billabong81
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 28, 2007 8:55 pm PT
Review:  I have been following the Call of Duty series since the first game, released back in 2003. I have 
 always played them on the PC and was disappointed when Call of Duty 3 was released on consoles 
 only. I was afraid one of my favorite series had been lost to the consoles, but thankfully COD4 
 made its way to the PC this time around.
  
  I was afraid when I heard that COD4 would not be set in World War 2, but rather in a series of 
 fictional, modern-day conflicts. I feared it would lose that special touch that let me know I was, 
 in fact, playing Call of Duty. That was not the case however, as there are plenty of cinematic 
 moments offered in this latest installment to the COD series.
  
  Call of Duty 4 places the player in the combat boots of Sgt. Soap McTavish, Sgt. Paul Jackson, 
 and we even get to play a bit as Lt. Price. Anyone who has played the previous Call of Duty games 
 knows who Lt. Price is, our infamous British friend. I thought it was neat of the designers to 
 carry him over from the WW2 setting to the new one.
  
  On to the game itself...
  
  Call of Duty 4's graphics are simply amazing. My rig is by no means special (Athlon 64 3500+, Nvidia 
 7600GS, 1.5gb RAM) , but I was able to play at medium-low settings with a stable FPS of 30-35. The 
 lighting in the game is awesome. The picture all over Gamespot of Cpt. Price smoking his cigar 
 in the chopper shows the attention to detail the designers have put into both the lighting and 
 all other aspects of the game graphically.
  
  Call of Duty 4's gameplay really reminds me of a COD game. It still feels like the run and gun 
 shooter the past games were, yet it still retains a "realistic" feel. What I mean by that is one 
 can't just run out into a hail of machine gun fire, but the game is able to keep the fast pace 
 with its health system. COD4 uses the system seen in games like Halo; stay out of combat for a 
 few seconds and the player's health regenerates. I love the different settings of the game. The 
 player gets to fight all over the world, from the middle east, to Russia, in both outdoor, urban, 
 and inside environments. The constantly changing setting keeps the game fresh and I never felt 
 like I was in the same place twice. 
  
  The game keeps true to the COD series, with many scripted events and not a lot of room to stray 
 from the intended way to play the mission. I think this works best however, as it helps create 
 a cinematic environment. I actually felt like I was in the game, even right from the start. I don't 
 want to spoil anything for you, but in the very first mission of the game, I thought my character 
 was going to die on a ship. I won't give anything more away, but the scripted events are used expertly 
 in COD4. Be aware, the sniper mission is quite possibly one of the best levels ever designed for 
 a first person shooter. It ranks up there with Medal of Honor: Allied Assault's Omaha Beach mission. 
 The feel of the mission is incredible. Your teammate is realistic and I truly felt like I was playing 
 with another human.
  
  The sounds of the game are very well done. You can hear bullets snap and whiz as they just narrowly 
 miss the player. The soundtrack is generally well done. I thought a couple of times the music was 
 annoying, but I think music is more a matter of personal preference.
  
  I didn't spend much time with the multiplayer portion of the game. I have never been a fan of the 
 series' MP aspects. I know a ton of people are enjoying it though, and the few times I have played, 
 the game has been stable with little lag. If you are interested in knowing more about the MP game, 
 I suggest reading some of the other player reviews, or the GS official review.
  
  It was unfortunate the game was so short. The SP game is 6-8 hours at most. I wish it was a little 
 longer, but I had a blast playing the entire time. What little there is, is quite good, as the 
 saying goes. Maybe change that good to amazingly awesome and it fits better.
  
  COD4 is an amazing experience and a sure bet to add to any gamer's collection. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KLN2002
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 28, 2007 5:24 pm PT
Review:  Game play: 
  
  Call of Duty Four: Modern Warfare, is fast paced and highly addictive. As the title implies it 
 is "modern" warfare, M-16s and AK-47s replace M1's and K98s. The single player has a well written 
 storyline that takes place in the Middle East, and Eastern Europe. It has some unforgettable levels, 
 and is fast paced from start to finish, but it is really short. Multiplayer features a nice system 
 of promotions, and unlocks weapons, however the ranks are fairly easy to earn, a good first person 
 player could reach the 10th rank in less than two hours, and the final rank of 55 in around 50 
 hours or less. That being said, unlocks are fun, and there are different upgrades to earn for each 
 weapon from sights to silencers, and camo. There is also the inclusion of "perks" each class can 
 have 3 perks, one set is weapon perks, such as extra grenades, c4, or more ammo, there are other 
 perks that enable deeper bullet penetration, more health, a UAV jammer, and many other abilities. 
 Overall no ability is a game breaker for any player, and these merely add strategy to the game. 
 
  
  Graphics: 
  
  CoD 4's graphics are improved over CoD 2, it runs at a higher frame rate, and has some new depth 
 of field vision effects that look really cool. Depth of field is the effect that occurs when looking 
 down iron sighs and object appear out of focus that you are not aiming at. 
  
  Replay: 
  
  Single player can be beat in 6 hours or so, but multiplayer is quite addictive. You will easily 
 get hours upon hours of enjoyment from the multiplayer. For the short term trying to gain ranks 
 and new toys will keep you addicted.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rechact
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 28, 2007 3:28 pm PT
Review:  Finally updated to a modern setting, Call of Duty 4 provides some of the best FPS action in modern 
 gaming. Like most modern first-person shooters, CoD4 has both a single player campaign and a multiplayer 
 mode.
  
  The single player campaign is decidedly on the short side, probably taking the average FPS player 
 somewhere from five to ten hours to play through, depending on the difficulty setting. Despite 
 this brevity, every moment of the campaign is action packed and exciting. Excellent production 
 values contribute to the quality with awesome graphics and lighting effects, evocative voice acting, 
 and polished level design. The story is fairly run-of-the-mill modern terrorist speculation, but 
 the way in which this story is presented is interesting in its realism and grittiness. Sometimes 
 you won't believe what just happened. Although you will play most of it from the perspective of 
 a soldier on the ground, there are interesting moments in which you stash your assault rifle for 
 some heavy firepower, such as the cannons on the side of a C-130 raining death from above through 
 IR cameras, or taking a minigun mounted on a helicopter. There are also interesting stealth portions 
 where you don camouflage and crawl as tanks and soldiers pass meters from you. The AI is decent, 
 though at times it may simply try to overpower you with ridiculous numbers, or make you rush headlong 
 through enemies because you are on a timer. All in all, though, the campaign will leave you wanting 
 more and more, and unfortunately doesn't provide enough. Obviously, the developers decided to make 
 every moment as action packed as possible instead of making more drawn out sequences, and this 
 will give you a good sitting or two of something incredible, and that makes you just want to exclaim 
 to everyone how bad-ass it is. 
  
  It is the multiplayer that truly brings value to the game. The maps are all interesting and fun. 
 For those of you who know Battlefield 2, every map is like playing Strike at Karkand or Sharqi 
 Peninsula. They are all somewhat urban, and rarely will you find vast, open firefields. The weapons 
 all feel right, even if some are plain better than others, and somehow how many bullets it takes 
 to kill someone also feels just right. There are lots of multiplayer modes, from standards like 
 Team Deathmatch and Free for All, to objective based ones like Sabotage and Search and Destroy. 
 There is also an interesting experience point based ranking system that lets you go from Private 
 to General, and unlock new weapons and character perks along the way. Achievements which are unlocked 
 and provide experience for completion also add another interesting dimension to the game. Furthermore, 
 unlike many FPS multiplayers, you can build you own class, which means choosing a primary weapon, 
 a secondary weapon, attachments for both and then choosing three perks which are unlocked by rank 
 and aid your character in some, fairly minor, way. None of them make it hard for a new player to 
 succeed, just allow someone to make someone that suits his play style. In comparison to some other 
 games, a few things are, however, lacking, for good or bad. There are no vehicles to control, although 
 one can call in a helicopter to kill for them with a kill streak of seven. There are no squads, 
 or commanders, so the sort of mass unity to the game breaks down compared to BF2, but the smaller 
 scale of the game and better map design easily makes up for this. 
  
  Overall, Call of Duty 4 should not be missed by anyone who enjoys military-style shooters, and 
 the multiplatyer will make it worth anyone's dollar. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Brett1521
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 28, 2007 12:15 pm PT
Review:  This was the first and only game I have for PS3 right now. Might be the only one ill need. The 
 online gaming is amazing, and very competitive. There are a few things that I would like to see 
 fixed, but nothing major. There are no bugs during game play. I dont like how the clans arent official. 
 I think they need to make it so people can form clans, and invite people to them. Anyone can add 
 any tag to their name, even if someone has already made the clan. I had some problems grouping 
 with my friends, but everything seems to be fine now! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: steamlinevision
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 28, 2007 11:38 am PT
Review:  The best and my most favorite fps game out to date.
  Stunning graphics nice scenery I love the unlock system and ranking system of this game.
  
 
  Short Singleplayer but amazing scenery and quality makes up for the lack of hours that singleplayer 
 has to offer.
  
  Multiplayer is just great.
  Nice multiplayer maps good choice good opponents nice weapon customizations and unlocks.
  
 
  the requirments for pc are pretty high but even people who can only run the game on low still 
 get an amazing setup and graphics and scenery.
  
  People like me who are lucky enough to get to play on maximum settings it's just completely amazing 
 the scenery and the way the game layout is.
  
  I would recommend this game to anyone who loves fps games and who has liked the other call of duty 
 games to date.
  
  The price for it isn't that bad either $49,99 USD.
  
  and for the consoles (PS3, 360) it's $59,99 USD. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lordjaba
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 28, 2007 11:21 am PT
Review:  Since the time i passed the COD2 (and it was quite soon after the release)
  i've been waiting for COD4, since i knew i wouldnt have any chance to play cod3 (i dont have the 
 console) . Was it worth the waiting? hard to tell but overally, Yes. Was it worth the money? in 
 my opinion, No. Why?
  Well lets start from the start, Graphics (which is least important in a game for me, but oh well) 
 it was really well done, beside, the look of grass which was a little dazzling but other of it, 
 the sky, human models, gun models, explosions, were really great for me.
  Next thing is the physics i cant say i didnt like it, but overally it was average, i mean the through-wall-shooting 
 stuff was really good as well as the hitmodels of enemies, but the rest of it like indesructowalls, ground 
 etc, sometimes weird positions of enemies when they die, like they didnt have a spine 0. o was repealing. 
 
  The AI, this will be short cause its was actually great both in allies as well as in enemies, well 
 they had their moments but we'll skip it ;]
  The maps and plot (i put it together to say) just so f****** awesome the best thing of the game
 
  Now for the bad sides, which are for sure the lenght of the campaign, took me about 3 hours on 
 medium difficulty and about 7 on the highest (veteran or smth) either way it was waaaay to short. Maybe 
 they though the multiplayer will fill the gap in this game, but i dont like the multi, i just dont, 
 no reason.
  
  All in all the game was really worth all time i waited for it, maybe less worth the money i spent 
 on it. I recommend, it to everyone who played other parts of cod and for those who didnt play other 
 parts.... well its a fine game i think you will like it ass well ;] 
::::::

::::::
UserName: XxH4CK3RB01xX
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 28, 2007 11:19 am PT
Review:  "Wow", the only thought that will be going through your head after you play this game. Infinity 
 Ward has stepped up their game with this one.
  
  I am a big fan of the call of duty series, and when I heard there was going to be a call of duty 
 4, I went to my local gamestop and reserved it immediately. Best buy of my life.
  
  This game incorporates everything you would want in an FPS. Graphics are great, storyline is unbeatable. 
 I actually felt as if I was actually making a difference in the game.
  
  And what I really thought was a great feature was how Infinity Ward incorporated more than just 
 run and gun action in this one. I really enjoyed the Bomber mission (Play it and you'll understand) , 
 i felt it was a big change from running ahead with guns flaring.
  
  Another awesome aspect was the sniper mission with you taking the role of captain price. That mission 
 gave you the choice of being the person who put holes through helmets, or the merciful sniper who 
 let them be. I really enjoyed that level.
  
  Multiplayer does not dissapoint either. A variety of weapons keeps it fresh and an RPG style level 
 up and incentive system really gives the multiplayer a new look and feel. 
  
  In conclusion, PICK UP THIS GAME! You will not regret this buy. You'll find yourself hooked. Hats 
 off to Infinity Ward, Keep up the good work! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dominuspolux
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 28, 2007 10:02 am PT
Review:  La saga de Call of Dutty siempre ha sido de lo mejor. La campaa single player de toda la saga 
 ha sido extremadamente buena y esta no es la excepcin. 
  Siempre me han gustado los juegos que mezclan la simulacin tctica con el shooter mas efervescente. 
 Este es un claro ejemplo de ello. Es como jugar Ghost Recon 2 (la version 1 me pareci muy mala) 
 pero con mucha adrenalina, las decisiones quedan muy en segundo plano por la vertiginosa accin, 
 pero vale la pena cada segundo.
  En el multiplayer se puede explotar ms el caracter ttico si se juega coordinadamente con los 
 compaeros de equipo. Deberiamos poder verlo en torneos de caracter internacional al mas puro estilo 
 del viejo Counter Strike. ;-) , salvando las distancias de contenido, jugabilidad y calidad grfica. 
 
  El engine es espectacular, de lo ms ligero y con una atmosfera realmente atrapante. Felicitaciones 
 a los desarrolladores. 
  Para mi, el mejor juego del ao.
  
  Solo espero poder ver una expansin lo ms pronto posible!. La campaa, de verdad, es muy corta. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shiben
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 28, 2007 6:34 am PT
Review:  Call of Duty 4 is the fourth (duh) installment in the Call of Duty series. After Call of Duty 3 
 which was not released for PC, COD4 is a gift for pc gamers after a long time. Call of Duty 4, 
 though adds the tag "Modern Warfare" at its end, some people may think that this sequel will be 
 as boring as the other tactical shooters like GRAW etc. However, COD4 remains faithful to the game-play 
 of the series and pretty much remains the same.
  
  The plot of the game involves terrorists nuclear threats and has been presented very seriously. 
 The game is not played chronologically, you go back in time as a flashback of what happened at 
 that time (something like 'World in Conflict' if you have played that) , also you don't play as 
 a single character. Some moments in the game clearly convey that war is not a joke and people die 
 in it. COD series has always been heavy to me, I love the little emotional content which is incorporated 
 beautifully in the game.
  
  Graphics of the game look really nice. Especially the lighting in the game has been worked upon 
 fantastically and hides all the other things which they have done wrong or if they haven't done 
 at all. Its quite hard to believe: the graphics are a little dated, but the developers are able 
 to shine the game just with their lighting. I worship such developers who provide beautiful games 
 on our screens but don't make our hardware cry :D
  
  Game-play hasn't changed much, its more or less the same COD we have been playing over the years. 
 This is a good thing as well as a bad thing. Good thing is the retained game-play and the bad thing 
 is there is no novelty. With massive number of games arriving, it is high time we look for innovation 
 in games even if they feel perfect. Because of this I didn't give it a perfect rating.
  
  The small campaign is not that bad. The main reason is its replay value, its very high. Each and 
 every mission is re-playable. There are non-fps style levels as well in which you have to play 
 as Tactical artillery etc. its severe fun. The multi-player should be good, I have not played multi-player 
 so I will safely consider it perfect in that regard.
  
  Highly recommended to Call of Duty fans. For others... What? you don't like Call of Duty? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tees60
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 28, 2007 3:40 am PT
Review:  This is arguably the most cinematic game ever. From Epilogue till the very last scene Infinity 
 Ward thought out CoD4 as an interactive thriller movie, with you playing the main role. This works 
 perfectly: throughout the game you are totally immersed in the ultra fast-paced action, seamlessly 
 skipping form one set-up to another. The length to which the authors went to get you in the action 
 is surprising. I don't want to let out any spoilers, but some stages are meant just to get you 
 to feel the atmosphere  you can do practically nothing except watch and suck up the flavor. 
 
  
  The loading scenes are the best I've ever seen: no longer they are a resting point or turn-off 
 between scenarios, they give information and add so much more flavor to the game. And before your 
 breathing can get back to normal you immediately jump into the heat of the action again. And the 
 action is just breathtaking at times. The A-130 level for example is a masterpiece.
  
  This is still a COD game though, so it is pretty much linear, with set up actions taking place 
 when you reach certain points in the game. There is no revolution here, but if you liked the previous 
 CoD titles you will just LURVE this one.
  
  There is one, but a very serious drawback: this game is way too short in singleplay! I've seen 
 demos that gave you more playing time. For the fist time I finished it in about 10-12 hours, I 
 started over and finished in 4. Not being the best player in shooters I can imagine that many players 
 will finish the campaign in one evening. There is multiplayer and arcade modes to give the game 
 replayability but still. I had to sustract a point from the total score.
  
  OK. 4 hours. But it is one of the best 4 hours you can spend in a FPP shooter. And then you can 
 blow up your chums over the net. Recommendation? Buy, buy, buy!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: yannyibs1
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 28, 2007 3:11 am PT
Review:  COD4 is an excellent game to play, the story works nicely, it sucks you in. Quality over Quantity 
 is definitely the issue in this game as the single player campaign mode is just too short compared 
 to other FPS's. The good thing about it was the quality. Every mission was unique in its own way 
 from sniping to Gung ho to vehicle chases to air attack.
  
  Now to the pros and cons:
  
  Pros
  - Excellent gameplay
  - Excellent Story
  - Great voice acting
  - Great Sound
 
  
  Cons
  - Too short
  - Graphics were good but could of been better
  
  The pros easily out weigh the cons which make this game a must.
  
  The reason why the graphics 
 could of been better was the environment was too fixed, if you shot a barrel it will not move. 
 You would think in this generation of games it should. I played Crysis just before I played this 
 and the graphical detail in everything is noticeable.
  
  Apart from a few minor issues this game is definitely one to play.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Wasdie
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 27, 2007 8:03 am PT
Review:  Call of Duty 4 is the latest installment in the Call of Duty series. The setting for games one 
 through three with three separate titles on the PS2, Xbox, and PSP, has been World War Two. Also 
 out of these six games, only 2 of them have actually appeared on the PC.
  
  Infinity Ward has finally brought back the CoD series to the PC. Instead of fighting on the frontlines 
 of WWII, CoD 4 takes place in modern times, hence the title Call of Duty 4: Modern Combat. 
  
  This review only is a review of the single player mode since I am unable to play online thanks 
 to my local college network.
  
  I can sum up the entire review in a few simple words. Call of Duty 4: Modern Combat is one hell 
 of a great game. Everything that was great in the previous Call of Duty games is all present and 
 accounted along side many additions to the gameplay.
  
  As with previous CoD games the gameplay is very linear and heavily scripted. With games like Crysis 
 and Stalker on the market now, this seems very old fashioned. Don't worry, there is enough action 
 and variety here to more than make up the loss of freedom that these more sandbox oriented games 
 provide.
  
  The game is set in a fictional war between the Russian government and Russian extremists (called 
 Ultranationalists) . I was slightly confused on the story at the beginning of the game, but what 
 I have gathered is the Ultranationalist movement has started actually in a Middle Eastern country 
 and spills into Russia itself. The Ultranationalists kill the president of some Middle Eastern 
 country and America goes to restore order and stop the Ultranationalists from attacking more than 
 just the Russian government. 
  
  You switch between a British S. A. S. commando nicknamed "Soap" and an American Marine named Jackson. 
 I will not give any more details about the story because it is actually a major strength of the 
 game. Details of the story are given in cutscenes during the loading times between each level. 
 This is a cool feature because it makes the loading times much more interesting and they don't 
 feel all that long.
  
  To make up for the lack of sandbox gameplay, CoD 4 dishes out a wide of variety of gameplay. Along 
 side of the signature "big battle" levels that the series is well known for, there are many smaller, 
 more personal skirmishes that are each intense and unique in their own way.
  
  For example one of the missions has you taking part in a massive marine invasion of a Middle Eastern 
 city. The level opens up with you on a Blackhawk helicopter flying towards the city. You look out 
 to see dozens more helicopters transporting soldiers over water from the naval fleet to the city. 
 As you pass over the city RPGs and gunners from the roofs of the building open up on all of the 
 helicopters. As the helicopters reach their destination and start unloading over the city, you 
 can see all of the marines rappelling from the helicopters to the ground. From there you proceed 
 to wage all out war with the rebel army in the city streets.
  
  Another mission has you stealthy para-dropped into the countryside of Russia. Here you sneak from 
 place to place in stealth, trying not to get detected and overwhelmed by enemies. It is a really 
 nice contrast to the large battle missions. Other missions offer different kind of gameplay as 
 well. For example you take the gunner position on a C-130 gunship circling a battlefield. Here 
 you rain death from above on the enemy as you escort a S. A. S. commando unit. This is a very unique 
 and amazingly fun mission. It is a good break from the typical  
 missions that we have seen 100 times before.
  
  The actual gameplay is fairly familiar. If you have played a CoD game before you kind of know where 
 this one is going, linear with lots of guys to shoot. You get squad mates but in later difficulties 
 these guys are more of an annoyance to the enemy because they don't seem to kill anything. On the 
 easier difficulties your allies really help to mow through the ranks of the enemies.
  
  The game throws a few new elements to the mix. In later missions you can call air support to carve 
 a path through the hoards of enemies. On top of smoke grenades you get flash bang grenades. All 
 of the guns are equipment are modern so you get to use silencers and grenade launchers.
  
  The enemy A. I. is fairly smart. Even on the easy difficulties the enemy does its best to get on 
 your flank and keep suppressive fire down. Though I have found that they are not always the best 
 at finding cover, but usually it is alright because there is so much enemy fire one you at once 
 that you are pretty much forced to take cover. On top of suppressive fire, the enemy A. I. loves 
 grenades. You will often find yourself ducking from enemy grenades and having to reposition yourself.
 
  
  The whole campaign will take you about five to six hours on the lower difficulties and 8-10 on 
 the higher. Luckily Infinity Ward has added a ton of extras to unlock. Throughout the levels there 
 are pieces of enemy intelligence that you can collect. The more you collect, the more special cheats 
 you unlock to use during the game. Also at the end of the game you unlock arcade mode which allows 
 you to play through any level trying to score the most points and finish the level in the quickest 
 time. The cheats plus the arcade mode add a ton of replayablitiy to the game. 
  
  The single-player campaign may not last long but its one you won't easily forget. Each level is 
 short but is pack with tons of action that will have you coming back at least once. 
  
  The quality of the single-player campaign is only enhanced by the amazing graphics that Call of 
 Duty 4 offers. The game looks damn near photorealistic at times. This is mostly due to high resolution 
 textures and amazing lighting. The character models are very detailed and extremely well animated.
 
  
  I played the game on the PC. With my computer specs (Intel Core 2 Duo E6600, 8800gts 640mb, 2gb 
 DDR 800 RAM) I could max the game out with full AA and AF and still keep a solid framerate throughout 
 the game. The game is optimized beautifully. Never once was there a slowdown. I have seen the PS3 
 and 360 versions of the game and they both look amazing and never experience slowdown either.
 
  
  The sound is also a treat. The CoD series has always had some of the best sound effects in video 
 games and CoD 4 is no exception. On my first play through of the game I was limited to only headphones. 
 Even with my cheap headphones the game still sounded amazing. The sound really brings the battle 
 to life. When I was able to hook up my 5.1 surround sound speakers, I swear I was in the middle 
 of a real battle. To top it all off, it features a very good orchestral score that is just as good 
 as most action movies today.
  
  This whole review I have been showering CoD 4 with praise but there are a few cons with CoD 4. 
 For starters the game is short. I mean super short. You can easily finish this game within 6 hours. 
 Again I was not able to play the online mode but I am sure that adds hundreds of hours to the gameplay. 
 Second, in the post Crysis world, linear FPSs are starting to feel old and dated. A more open-ended 
 feel to the game would have been a really nice addition.
  
  Overall Call of Duty 4: Modern Combat is a great game worthy of any FPS fans money. If you have 
 a PS3, Xbox 360, or PC (even a older system) it is worth your time and money to check this game 
 out. Its production values are top notch, the story is captivating, and the whole game is a blast 
 from beginning to end. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: traviswitmer
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 27, 2007 8:06 am PT
Review:  This game is really impressive. After being completely disappointed with COD3 I was apprehensive 
 at first about buying (COD) 4 but the previews, videos, reviews, were all so compellingly positive 
 that I went ahead anyway and made the purchase.
  This game is visually stunning. I have never seen a more photo realistic game in my life. I have 
 a pretty powerful computer and am lucky enough that I got to play it on high settings. I found 
 myself just wanting to stop, explore and take in the truly meticulous attention to detail that 
 the developers put into this game.
  I really liked the story. I was every bit as gritty, grimy, and twisted as I assume wars like this 
 one are. It was entertaining, believable and relevant to current events. Although it didn't do 
 a good job of really pulling me in the way that other games have to the point where I become the 
 character and really start to live through him/her.
  The game play is precise. The weapons are nothing special but provide a good range of "good guy/bad 
 guy" guns for you to choose from however I did find it a bit hard to aim down the barrel of some 
 guns and still have the peripheral vision to stay aware of what was going on around me, tunnel 
 vision if you will. This game is not for novices and took me a while to get used to the difficulty 
 level and controls. Seeing as how I just switched to PC games from console games I am still trying 
 to get used to a mouse and keyboard as opposed to a controller. The fact that I'm left handed doesn't 
 make it any easier ;-) .
  This game is a must buy for all FPS fans out there and will look good in any collection. Well done 
 Activision, I can now forgive you for prostituting the COD series to Infinity Ward. Get the game, 
 you will love it. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kendu10
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 27, 2007 4:53 am PT
Review:  I never liked a lot war games but this game is worth playng.
  So i like that there is change to shoot back the granade.
  and theres is so many good thing that 
 i have nothing bad to say.
  There is nice graphics and very nice missions.
  All the time there is action.
  I heard that multiplayer is too good.
  I havent played yet in 
 multiplayer.
  But the game is really worth it.
  Because its very realistic and great game.
  If you like war games then this game is for you.
 
  The one plus is that too there is blood and thats fun when u shot the helicopter pilot then the 
 cabine is full of bloo.
  And the great is that too the car explodes.
  U cant miss this game.
  This is best in series.
  I havent played only Cod 3 so i dont know 
 how good it is.
  Thats all this game rocks. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dr_MjNoOoN
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 27, 2007 12:07 am PT
Review:  Ya PC version is not that good like XBOX 360!
  
  No prestige, no server side ranking system, no buddy list and no login to the server by IP address.
 
  
  This game is need to be reworked for MP for the PC gamers
  
  
  8 out of 10 is good for this game
  
  bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla 
 bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla 
 bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla 
 bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla 
 bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla 
 bla bla bla bla bla bla 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DiabolicalX
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 26, 2007 9:12 pm PT
Review:  I am a long time CoD fan, I remember playing the first one, it still stands out as one of the really 
 great games of my life. As the CoD series went on it kind of lost a lot of the impact it once had, 
 the console ports were never really that good and CoD three being a PS2 only game was a bit of 
 a bad move.
  Thankfully Infinity Ward has come out with a new concept. Being one of the first for the November 
 line up it did a great job of taking you to the next level high octane shooters, the guns feel 
 powerful, the fighting is frantic and having someone other than a Nazi to shoot who also isn't 
 an Alien or a demon is always good.
  The multiplayer in this game is really something, it's fast paced and the constant changing of 
 the spawn points makes things really hectic and fun. And the RPG element of Xp and Create- A- Class 
 makes sure that there aren't the same basic soldiers running around.
  The story mode is good, its a great story and you really get into the characters, it is a little 
 short, but there's so much going on you'll hardly notice it's lack of length.
  A great game, you'd be stupid not to have it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: aai2on123
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 26, 2007 3:28 pm PT
Review:  This game is so intriguing you will play it for hours. It has great graphics, sound, music, and 
 charecters. The down sides are the cussing, and it is difficult to aim on the RPGs those are the 
 only bad things about the game. When I played it the extra junk laying on the ground was a add 
 to the old ones where nothing was on the ground. The act of by exploding cars needs a warning. 
 This is deffinately one if not the best first-person shooters I have ever played in my entire life. 
 This is a very good game to buy for Christmas. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cleaner1
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 26, 2007 12:11 pm PT
Review:  This game is just perfect for any one who's ever been in the army and as an Israeli I served in 
 golani in a sniper team , the mission with gilly suit was a real treat and brought back some memories.
 
  I played all of COD series and this one just tops them all, even if it isn't WW2, the game seems 
 allot more real then the others but it's still missing the commanding option you have in brothers 
 in arms, if they could add that to the game then it would be perfect.
  It is one of those games you can't wait to start playing it agian from the begining
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: adamgrace
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 26, 2007 11:45 am PT
Review:  COD4 takes modern warfare to the next level boasting 95% realism in all aspects (the other 5% is 
 that the story is fictional ) .
  
  The Single Player.
  
  Single player sees you in the boots of 3 soldiers, split between the SAS and the USMC Rangers. 
 The story is quite gripping, using many twists and turns, and has several outcomes that will leave 
 the gamers jaw on the floor. 
  
  The single player mode allows for various approaches to objectives and maps, which will have the 
 player going back for more, trying different methods to each set-piece. The set-pieces are some 
 of the most intense Ive ever experienced in a single player game (the original CODs 
 came close, but this one has them beat hands down) . It gives you a great feeling, one I rarely 
 feel when playing a first person shooter. Mortality. The fear of dying. Ok its just a game, 
 if I die in game I wont die in real life (unless I take it too personally.... lets 
 not go there) , but the feeling you get while in the midst of a raging fire fight is something absent 
 from many current/previous FPS out there. You make a dash at the wrong time, or camp out 
 behind a dumpster for too long and youll find a cooked grenade promptly land in your lap. 
 Boom. Start over. Not fun after about 10 attempts. But thats the beauty of it. If you act 
 like prat on a real battle field, youre going to get capped pretty sharpish, same deal here. 
 It forces you to play on reflexes and instincts which Ive not experienced before. Makes 
 the hairs stand up on the back of your neck when youre lying in tall grass as a platoon 
 of infantry and BMPs roll on past you. Christ, it still makes me tingle and Ive finished 
 the game several times. 
  
  This game is just superb. If I ever meet the guys that made this, Ill buy them all a pint.
 
  
  Onto the Multiplayer.
  
  Multiplayer goes hand in hand with the greatness of the single player. Multiple game modes from 
 the classics such as Free-for-all, TDM, Domination to Search and Destroy, Sabotage. 
  
  The multiplayer goes from strength to strength with its excellently balanced ranking system and 
 unlocks. Unlike other online shooters (BF2/2142) , unlocks depend on various things; you can unlock 
 new guns and perks (will come to these in a sec) or unlock weapon modifications by achieving certain 
 challenges while using a particular weapon, for example unlock an MP5 red-dot sight by killing 
 50 odd people by head shots.
  
  The Perks are awesome too. You unlock perks by levelling up. Each perks adds even more greatness 
 to a game already brimming with it. Perks range from weapon features (faster reloads, wall/object 
 penetration) to last-ditch efforts (mortally wounded? Why not drop a cooked grenade in the hope 
 to kill your assailant, or better still whip out the ol side arm and try to plug em 
 before croaking it) genius. 
  
  Then theres the in game on the fly bonuses; kill three people without dying, 
 you get a UAV that your whole team can use. Kill 5 in a row and you get to call in an air strike 
 to carpet bomb an area of the map. 7 in a row and you can call in an attack chopper for support 
 (pure pwnage) .
  
  And thats just skimming the surface.
  
  Hardcore mode is where its all at my friend. Real weapon damage. No hud. Great stuff. Just 
 clutch your plums and run for cover. Try and Quake it here and youll find you're chewing 
 on bullets in no time. 
  
  Some of the most thrilling and exciting gaming moments of my life have been had on this game. 
 
  
  To conclude; Call of Duty 4: Modern Warfare is the most intense, adrenaline soaked, action packed, 
 arse tightening excitement you can get (outside of attending a mass orgy where youre the 
 only guy (or gal) and its up to you to see to everyone there)
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: SentientGames
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 26, 2007 7:19 am PT
Review:  Like my Crysis review, I'll refrain from spouting out an essay detailing every aspect of the game. 
 Instead, I'll just give a quick summery in the form of pro's and con's.
  
  The Good
  - Decent graphics, well optimized for mid-range computers.
  - Cinematic quality is very high, 
 offering some really stellar scenes.
  - Campaign is fairly straight-forward with fun gameplay.
  - Enemies are intelligent and a blast 
 to fight.
  - The ability to fire through certain materials is neat and works well.
  - Strong multiplayer is fun and well done.
  
  The Bad
  - The campaign is very short; probably 
 due to more focus on multiplayer.
  - The story is a little "been there, killed that terrorist-leader before..."
  - The multiplayer 
 is plagued with assholes.
  
  Overall, CoD4 is a great game. However, the thing I remember best about CoD1 was the amazing single-player 
 experience, not the multiplayer. Yet, Infinity Ward has decided this time around that the multiplayer 
 deserved more attention then the singleplayer. As a result, the length and depth of the campaign 
 unfortunately suffered. Despite that, though, the high quality of the campaign makes up for the 
 lack of hours. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ov3rD0s3
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 26, 2007 6:03 am PT
Review:  ok. part 4 is finnaly here. tell you the truth, i was supprised when i saw rewiev on gamespot. 
 oky, graphics are nice, but still not impressive, sound- like cod always- good. but gameplay? did 
 anybody play cod2?!? this is the same! oky new weapons, new levels, new "look". but it's the same! 
 and about sp?! everyone is saying is the best till now. omfg, did anyone play stalker of half life 
 2?! im tired of irak and other arab countries, and that sniper mission? that is soo good? wtf? 
 you shoot that bad guy in the head, wich flyes away like a football ball, and still, he survives? 
 u can't even go under a tank when facing multiple tanks and soldiers on a field? really lame since 
 most people (at least i) tried to go under a tank and maybe plant a bomb on it :P but oky, since 
 cod is mp game, sp doesn't matter so much- but mp?! its cod2 with modern weapons?! and how did 
 the game get such a high score, if there are too many simililars to cod2?! and how did it get so 
 high score- if half life 2, stalker and such games- wich are waaaaay better got almost the same 
 score? oh come on, cod 4 is just another cod, nothing new, all lived up, fun for one or two days, 
 but that's it. if this is going to be the game of the year, i'll stop playing games. it's not worth 
 buying. infinity ward- you'd better stick with ww2 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lordlothar
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 25, 2007 6:41 pm PT
Review:  Call of Duty 4 is a very fun game to play. I loved the graphics and the story line. It is a great 
 addition to the first person shooter and COD series. Activision and Infinity Ward did an excellent 
 job with taking the first person shooter from WWII to present day warfare. Wonder whatever happened 
 to Korea and Vietnam, guess it was too controversial. But with every good thing there is sure to 
 be a bad. This bad is how short the game is. It took only a day to finish and seemed as if it only 
 had half of the missions of the previous COD games. I hope that Activision and Infinity Ward plan 
 on additions to this game. Even though the game may be short, I still recommend it to anyone that 
 enjoys a good first person shooter. It is a top-notch game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 401225
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 25, 2007 1:20 pm PT
Review:  Okay, everybody knows the call of duty series. And if are going to buy this game you are not wasting 
 your money. This is another big hit in the series cause everything in this tittle is amazing, the 
 gameplay is allright, alittle bit like the other tittles but with new adittions so its okay, the 
 graphics are gorgeous i mean is one of the best looking games in the history at least it is for 
 me and i got years in the gaming world and i know im not the only one.
  
  the campaing in this game is very short but what really makes the difference is the multiplayer, 
 you can create your own cllass while earning points killing other players in the game and have 
 a lot of fun.
  
  So all of this together makes call of duty 4 a game that really worhts your money! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ministerpaul
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 25, 2007 12:17 pm PT
Review:  The reigning champion Battlefield 2 and 2142 has been dethrone, but are not dead. CoD4 adds to 
 the online multiplayer arsenal a more than credible option for online gaming. The graphics and 
 sounds are superb and runs seamlessly on todays most powerful rigs. The single player campaign 
 is short, but very sweet and well done. The storyline is gripping, realistic, and will have you 
 anxious to complete the next mission.
  
  The multiplayer area is rich with options and generous with advancements. In order to win you must 
 play as a team using all the classes available to achieve the victory. Everyone cannot rush the 
 line, some will have to snipe from a distance and occupy strategic points in the form of buildings. 
 Assault will have to move slowly using objects as shields and lay down suppress fire while other 
 teammates take aim. Spec-ops and demolition can clear buildings as they are geared for close combat. 
 Snipers must use stealth techniques while moving and keep their distance... or face emminent death.
 
  
  Overall Cod4 is the best game I've seen yet and appears to have taken the top spot from Crysis. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DualHazzarD
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 25, 2007 12:05 pm PT
Review:  This game is incredible, theres so much to say about it. I'll start off with the single player...
 
  
  The single player is great, but incredibly short. A person new to the call of duty series, would 
 be able to beat call of duty 4 in a matter of 5 hours or less. I myself beat it in 3 hours, but 
 those 3 hours were amazing! There are amazing cutscenes and interactiveness. There are amazing 
 missions where you are up in a helicopter shooting rockets down at huge armies, and it was too 
 much fun. The Single player I would give a 8.5.
  
  The Multi-player now has Ranks/lvls 1-55 and it gives a point to the online play. It keeps track 
 of your kills, deaths, time played, assists, headshots, total score, total xp and so on. There 
 are challenges that you can complete for XP towards your rank, and as you complete the weapon challenges, 
 you unlock add on parts for you weapons such as silencers, red dot sights, an acog scope and a 
 few more. Along with that completing other weapon challenges will give you different camo schemes 
 for your weapons as well. As you rank up you unlock new weapons, new challenges, and more. The 
 game is almost never ending, and incredibly interactive, and theres a point to everything you do. 
 The Multi-Player I would give a 10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lord_NeCro
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 25, 2007 10:23 am PT
Review:  the MP of this game is incredible, it has so many custom options for weapons/perks to handle so 
 many styles of play, give you alot of think about which can be fun trying out a playing style, 
 and the game is well balanced IMHO!.. skill can shine through. plus it gives you the feeling of 
 being in WAR and trying to live. dont hesitate to buy this game, if your Rig can handle it GET 
 it!
  my family is yelling at me about spending to much time on "that silly game!" but i hear grenades 
 dropping throughout the day and listen for the comforting sound of automatic weapon fire in the 
 distance!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: viperx64
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 26, 2007 12:16 pm PT
Review:  Well... this is one of the greatest game I've played in the last few months. The one thing i didn't 
 like about this game is that it's short... it took me an afternoon to finish the whole game. But 
 you can't say that a short game is a bad game... The game play is really good, lots of action, 
 diverse weaponry, challenging AI, nice storyline and variety of missions... i especially liked 
 the mission that was "15 years ago"... it was really challenging (i managed to die 5 or 6 times 
 while i was waiting for the evac chopper... don't laugh :) ) ) ... it implied stealth, a steady trigger 
 finger and sometimes a bit of patience.
  The graphics are really good (i've seen some bugs around, like weapons or body parts going through 
 the walls but it's not something that you see all around the game) , but so are the visual effects 
 and physics. The graphics engine is well optimized (i've ran the game on my Athlon64 3000+, 2 gig 
 of ram and a 7600GT without any problems in high details) .
  The sound is nice, the weapons, explosions, effects are made realistic... nothing else to say here 
 :D
  Overall it's a great game... and if you haven't downloaded/bought it until now, do it... it's a 
 game worth playing :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lotusxr
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 24, 2007 9:36 pm PT
Review:  I would like to say WoW. I mean really had from start to finish. Yeah the game was short, but wow. 
 That's all I can say. Great pace, great story, music, sound, graphics. Wow. Shooting through walls 
 is a great added feature. Ok now for the bad. Lets get some variety with the enemies and the game 
 was short, but did you really want to play different levels with little to no differences? I sure 
 as hell don't. This game is a must play. Trust me you will like it. As long as your not 9 years 
 old. The story is what really drives the game. Essentially the story unfolds while you play through 
 the missions and keeps you wanting more. Great F'ing game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: WolfCmnder
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 24, 2007 8:44 pm PT
Review:  Good - Great story, very different, keeps you on your toes. The best multi-player to date.
  
  
  
  Bad - Short Campaign, 
  
  
  
  Overall - The story is great, although short 
 the detail and quality of the story leaves you wanting more. But what makes up for the shortness 
 of the campaign, is the multi-player action. The multi-player is so good that you don't realize 
 that hours have passed.
  I recommend this game if you are into shooters for the multi-player, you will not disappointed, 
 otherwise you may want to skip out.
  
  The quality of the content in the campaign is totally top-shelf, and the multiplayer is some of 
 the best around, making this a truly superb package. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rrrufusss
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 24, 2007 8:05 pm PT
Review:  Best scripted sequences in any game I've ever played, some of the most memorable moments I've ever 
 encountered.... when Gamespot gives it that "YES!" award, which they describe as jumping up and 
 looking around the room for someone to shout "DID YOU SEE THAT?!" at, they aren't kidding. There 
 are so many moments like that in this game it's almost exhausting. I cannot wait for an expansion 
 - and if and when you do buy and beat it, make sure you wait through the entire credit sequence 
 to claim a very nice reward. :P
  
  A note on the graphics - Crysis is supposed to rule this category but COD 4 allowed me to play 
 with most settings on high, and Crysis forced me into a MED/LOW mishmash that just looked plain 
 awful, on MY rig at least COD 4 blew crysis away... Sure, that may be just me, but COD 4 definitely 
 should get some kind of award for engine scalability.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: MC1313_9
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 24, 2007 2:52 pm PT
Review:  My initial thought after playing the demo was that CoD4 was "nothing special". However, I succumbed 
 to peer pressure and decided to just bite the bullet and buy the game. Thank God I did. It's way 
 better than any other military shooter out at the moment. I played the Single player campaign on 
 "Hardened" and completed it in a couple of days (it's pretty short) .
  
  The biggest appeal to me is multiplayer. It features many different game modes, including traditional 
 free-for-all and team deathmatch. Also included is a Hardcore mode, which I reckon is awesome. 
 The only problem is that the servers (for me, in Australia) are always full. Despite the fact that 
 there are loads of them.
  
  Good points:
  +Good storyline
  +Great gameplay
  +Great graphics
  +Fast load times
  +No real performance loss
  +Awesome multiplayer
  +Adjustable 
 difficulty
  
  Bad points:
  -Really crappy Serverlist (no search function, and I can't figure out how to find my Favourite 
 Servers...)
  -Short single-player campaign
  -No Friends/Clanmembers search function
  -Ranking system is rubbish - stats are not recorded online. This means that if you lose all your 
 data, you'll have to start all over again. Without any unlocks. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NnethKe
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 24, 2007 7:37 am PT
Review:  Having played the First CODs I assumed this game is gonna be great, and I think that other people 
 that felt the same way, no one was disappointed; the intro mission is packed with lots of action, 
 intense game play, it sucks you in to the battle instantly and you end up asking for more.
  
  Let's start with the graphics, as Infinity has us accustomed, they're great, impressive, the 
 waves, the rain, the gun fire, the blood that sprouts they look so real. The weapon's sounds neither 
 they disappoints you, they're very accurate, the sound effects are great too.
  
  The game play is so intense, that you actually fill like you're in the middle of the battle. It 
 takes you through several scenarios, different situations in those that any error can cost you 
 the life.
  
  The sum of all parts gives you one of the best shooters in recent days.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: dacopper
Rating: 3
Date: Aug 7, 2008 12:27 pm PT
Review:  Whaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaat? Such beautiful graphics, such realistic gameplay, even the Russians spoke 
 somewhat understandable Russian, but C'MOOOOOOOOOOOON, 5 hours was all it took to finish up the 
 single player????? I know, I know, multiplayer is where it's at, but damn it, I wanted to enjoy 
 the storyline at least for another 5-8 hours before going online mindlessly shooting my counterparts. 
 It was such a shocker the game ended so soon, I looked through all level just to make sure I didn't 
 skip on anything accidentally. Nope, everything was there, all 6 Gigs of 5 hours of nice, but short 
 game. Good thing I didn't buy that nice-looking "limited edition" box for $60 and went with the 
 regular-looking $50 disappointment. Money nicely spent, year right.
  
  P. S. 9 months down the road... I've replayed BioShock and Assassin's Creed twice since I got them, 
 I'm replaying Crysis for the 3-rd time now. But every time I pick up COD4 while digging through 
 my game collection, I think to myself "Ummm, maybe next time". I've tried hard to enjoy the online 
 multiplayer, I REALLY have! But it's all the same since Return To Castle Wolfenstine. It actually 
 felt like I was playing the 6-year-old game only with better graphics -- nothing new except for 
 the ranking system. So, I'm lowering my game's score from 5 to 3 because of its replay value (which 
 is non-existent) and did I mention the game was short? I'm still sorry I spent $50 on this junk. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mis_Led_Madman
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 23, 2007 10:52 pm PT
Review:  Call of Duty 4: Modern Warfare is a great game. The multi player has been improved and more interesting, 
 the single player sucks you in even though to some people it is short. Infinity Ward surpassed 
 my expectations with Call of Duty 4: Modern Warfare. The on with the good and the bad.
  
  The good: The good of this game is pretty much everything. The single player is original and fresh. 
 The story is just fantastic. When I play a game the main thing that makes it for me is the story. 
 The story brings some new characters and some old. Even though it is short I don't think they could 
 have done anything more without it feeling like it was dragged out. If you have played Call of 
 Duty 1 and 2 then you see the same feel in Call of Duty 4. The MP is the same as the other Call 
 of Duty games however with weapon unlocks, the perk system, part unlocks and ranks. The perk system 
 is what makes the multi player more addicting than the rest of the Call of Duty games. You can 
 make some interesting combinations to suit how you want to play. 
  
  The bad: There are not many bad things about this game in my opinion. The story was a little short. 
 The SP is not so replayable. Except for the very last level. 
  
  To sum it up Call of Duty 4 is a great game that delivers in both multi player and single player. 
 A great game that is worth buying. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cfsa
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 23, 2007 10:05 pm PT
Review:  This is truly a Call of Duty game, it follows the style and gameplay of it's predecessors, while 
 updating the setting and improving the multiplayer. 
  
  The singleplayer game is quite short, it will probably take you 6-8 hours, depending on difficulty 
 settings. Graphics are well done and it runs pretty well on a medium system. It may not be in the 
 league of Bioshock, Crysis and other typically next generation games, but it creates quite a realistic 
 and believable game. A very positive aspect, and somewhat innovative one must say, is the introduction 
 of real walls; bullets penetrates most obstacles and hits targets on the other side. This alone 
 makes for great realism. The AI is fairly convincing, though it doesn't quite manage to make the 
 enemy totally lifelike. The story itself is rather basic, but it's well told with cutscenes, ingame 
 briefings and videos during loadscreens (which makes said loadscreens much less tedious) . A final 
 note about singleplayer; wait for the endgame credits to finish and you'll get another mission, 
 it is short, but quite fun and a good ending for the game.
  
  Multiplayer is where earlier Call of Duties shined, and this is no exception. The change of settings 
 to modern day combat has been very well translated. Weapons are suitably more accurate while not 
 being overly so and sniping is more complicated in this installment, requiring more patience and 
 care. What you will notice immediately is that the pacing of multiplayer in Call of Duty 4 is much 
 higher. Most maps are relatively small and it may seem very chaotic at first, until you get used 
 to the gameplay. But once you do, multiplayer will be just as good or better than earlier. There 
 are a good variety of gamemodes, headquarters and search and destroy the most specialized. The 
 experience system and ranks are not as long as in Battlefield 2, for example, but it is quite rewarding. 
 There are many unlockable weapons and additional upgrades for your soldier. You can set up different 
 classes yourself, using assault rifles, submachine guns, light machinge guns, shotguns and rifles. 
 In addition to a your main weapon, you can choose different types of grenades, claymore mines, 
 rocket propelled grenades and similar. Now, what makes multiplayer and experience/ranks so interesting 
 is the perks and the challenges. You can choose two of three perks, which will make your soldier 
 better in different ways. You can become harder to kill, run faster, be hidden from the radar, 
 give your weapon more power and other quite interesting advantages. There are many types of challenges 
 that either involves direct combat score, supporting your team, winning games and maybe most important; 
 unlocking weapon upgrades. Weapons can be modified with silencers, red dot sights, scopes and grips, 
 depending on the weapon class. To unlock these modification you need to complete challenges for 
 each individual weapon by getting an increasing number of kills or headshots. The weapons themselves 
 are quite diverse, and really feel very different. Using modifications and perks you can use a 
 wide variety of playstyles. Using the MP5 equipped with a silencer, the stopping power perk (higher 
 weapon damage) and the steady aim perk (better accuracy when firing from the hip) makes you very 
 deadly, sneaky and mobile. On the other hand you can equip the M60 light machine gun with a grip 
 (better accuracy) together with juggernaut (better health) and deep impact (higher bullet penetration) 
 and mow people down through the walls on the other side of the building.
  
  In short, a short but fun singleplayer game that is outshined by the improved and excellent multiplayer. 
 If you liked the the earlier games in the series you can't go wrong with this one. If you like 
 fast paced multiplayer with solid and near perfect gameplay, this is the one you should be playing.
 
  
  Cfsa 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hatak
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 24, 2007 3:26 pm PT
Review:  Call of Duty 4 is a game I have been waiting for all year. It's a welcome change from it's WWII 
 premise. I mean seriously, I don't think I could stand to kill any more nazis than I already have. 
 The game is full of intense action and is also much more difficult than any of the other call of 
 duty games. Nothing name me happier than being able to take an M4 assault rifle and take down a 
 ruthless terrorist faction hellbent on creating a nuclear holocaust. I recommend this game to anyone 
 who loves to play FPS games. It's one of the best all year! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hunain_Hunny
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 23, 2007 7:10 am PT
Review:  I had high expectations when I got the game, plus excitment because I missed COD 3 on the PC, thank 
 God this time around they have got a modern setting, the gameplay was as usual, tite and viceral, 
 you really feel the battlefield errupting around you with bullets and blasts. Graphics were expectedly 
 much better than the previous installment, once you crank up the settings they are very nice but 
 nothing breakthrough. The Campaign is medium lenght but missions are nicely scripted giving you 
 some exciting moments. The multiplayer is very good, giving you stats and unlocks as well. I will 
 recommend it to fans of the series, new comers might be put off by the size of the campaign, but 
 if you want an action packed, thrilling FPS, get COD 4. As for system requirements, not too taxing 
 like other *tropical* games, so dont worry much. Get it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stuey-griffin
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 23, 2007 6:47 am PT
Review:  So i played this New game that just came out... and i gotta say its Awesome!
  Some the fans of CoD series sayd that Modern Warfare will be Worse tahn the previous Parts of the 
 Legendary game Wink But It turned out Better tahn the Last PC game of CoD: CoD2
  
  The gameplay is Fresh and new, altho the Engine is same as it was.
  Graphics are More developed, specialy 
 the Effects are Done more beautyfull and eventho its really fun to watch the shooting and etc, 
 the game doesnt slow down cuz of the Muzle flashes and Flash bangs wth nades
  Infinity Ward does the games like a peace of Candy.
  It filled with lots of Fun things that player 
 should find out and Find it really entertaining in a game like this.
  And the New Meelee is an Army Knife! Instead of hitting the enemy with your Gun, Now you can poke 
 eyes from your enemies face! (well, the animation is like poking the eye out Laughing ) .
  
  The Hud is pretty much down to minimum as it is EVeRYWHERE in CoD games THat makes the game more 
 realistic and tense to play.
  But for those who isnt adepet to play with no Xhair and/or didnt play CoD2 (theres no xhair by Def)
 
  A new Addition to gameplay is the realism of the Bullets. Depending on the gun you have in your 
 Skinny little Gamer claws, you cant penetrate the wall and kill an enemy with a shotgun behind it 
 when your unaible to get out of the cover and do so .
  But be aware of that you can be the guy in the enemies place and get shot throught he wall with 
 an Ak-47! 
  Specialy i want to mention about the Game Pressure. IT is really WAR in the game going on and a 
 real battlefield you step on, not like in CoD2 where you could Do Rambo Stuff with almost no hits 
 at all 
  So be prepared to Face pretty Much Tought enemies and lots of Tactical Monuvers from both, your 
 enemies and Allies sides .
  
  The A. I. of the game is done average, well, if it was like in FEAR, than it were MOre Laggy and Unstable 
 as methink. Cuz More A. I. cripts more Power thay need to calculate
  But still the characters pull out jokes out of thayr Pinned down heads 
  and sometimes it even 
 cheers you to get out of the Cover and Do some massive Destruction to the enemy In the building
 
  
  And Last but not least is the Campaign.
  For how long i played the game is really interesting. The campaign is filled with some good ideas 
 that player will need to Overcome in an "Epic" battle against foes 
  [Spoiler] Yes its not like CoD2: go there, blow that up" or "kill 5 enemies and Move out" Laughing 
 the missions are more thought out and have Lots of twists and Turns sometimes Smile [/Spoiler] 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Wull1977
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 23, 2007 5:48 am PT
Review:  How on Earth does Call of Duty 4 manage to remain completely disappointment free?
  
  The previous games were all rooted in reality, this one is completely made up.
  
  The previous 
 games had clear moral imperative, this one has you shoot men in their sleep.
  
  The previous games had dialogue fitting to the setting, this one has an opening mission which is 
 filled with lines clumsily and obtrusively referencing Aliens.
  
  The previous games took me around 12 hours each to polish off, this one was done in two sittings.
 
  
  The previous games had no misplaced rap songs in the end credits, this one did, somewhat ruining 
 the poignancy of the last scenes of the game  imagine The Littlest Hobo ending with "Yakkety Jazz" 
 from Benny Hill Horrifying.
  
  OK. That's that out of the way. Let's address the issues.
  
  The story manages to completely 
 out-Clancy Tom Clancy. It has an amazing paunchiness to  a "Zing!", if you will It feels completely 
 like an action-thriller blockbuster in which you play a raw recruit craving acceptance from Captain 
 Price your new CO. But then, maybe that was just me, the playable characters have enough leeway 
 to them that they could be pretty much whatever you imagine. Either way, when it comes to the denouement 
 and you have to step up to the plate with the big baddie there is palpable tension. Truly stunning.
 
  
  Second issue. As fun and guilt-free as killing Nazis is, 
  
  Number three. You know what, I love Aliens. If one more game lifts dialogue from it in some misguided 
 attempt at cool, or whatever they think it is So help me I don't know. Maybe some tragic, pathetic 
 losers get some form of kick out of spotting this type of lazy, contrived soul sucking garbage. 
 I don't know. Good luck to you if you do. Despite my rage at this type of thing, my only other 
 minor issue with the game's dialogue was the Scottish Captain MacMillan. Here's a handy hint for 
 game developers - there are REAL Scottish people! Some of us can even read out lines convincingly! 
 The guy wasn't THAT bad, though, to be fair and I'm sure that Americans wouldn't be able to tell 
 the difference. After the stumble of the (otherwise superb) first mission's dialogue, it sort of 
 settles down there a plenty of other little nods, but none that grate as much as Aliens ones. They've 
 just been done to death is all.
  
  Sticking with sound for the moment, the sound effects for the guns are just flat out excellent. 
 As well as the percussive "Bang", the painful "Crack" has been captured perfectly giving the weapons 
 a very authentic feel. I even found myself keeping a pistol as my back-up weapon and switching 
 to it instead of reloading in tight spots cos I like the sound they make. Oh, and I love the combat 
 reloads - you don't have to cock the weapon if there's still a round in the chamber, so a few desperately 
 needed milliseconds saved there.
  
  Point four. I played on regular for exactly 5 hours and 8 minutes, and the game was beat. I think 
 this is a good thing. The story was told and there was my favourite "boss fight" ever. Me, a pistol, 
 and a big melon head. Very satisfying indeed. Along the way the action pretty much goes like a 
 bullet, with the phenomenal exception of my new favourite experience in gaming  the Chernobyl 
 sniper/stealth mission. Superbly paced, wonderfully tense and subtler nods (to STALKER) than earlier. 
 Watching the wild dogs tear into the enemy infantry near the end of the mission was absolutely 
 priceless. My point is  game does exactly what it sets out to do and has the good grace to stop 
 when it's done. I'm sure that multiplayer will add a lot to the game, but I am SO bad against people, 
 that I rarely play online.
  
  So then, that's the sequel section out of the way  how does the game perform on its own merits. 
 Well, graphically, it is so good that it is pretty unbelievable. For me the bit that really impressed 
 was simply when Captain Price (making another Sam Beckett style leap into Call of Duty) is puffing 
 away on a cigar just before the first mission, then pulls his gas mask down. The lighting, the 
 rain slicked rope, his facial hair and the sheer attention to detail is beyond impressive.
  
  Control is tight when out in the open or in light cover, but I did find myself slowed in doorways, 
 and in some cases blocked from getting into cover by teammates . On at least two occasions I was 
 actively pushed out of cover by them. Not enough to get overly concerned about, but at the time 
 it is very frustrating.
  
  Unlike previous games where you feel like a cog in a big machine, here you feel like you are truly 
 making a difference directly. At times it truly feels quite scary and hiding behind cover and letting 
 Gaz deal with all the hassle is an enticing prospect.
  
  On the whole, Call of Duty 4 is a fantastic game filled with stand out moments with a script that 
 shouldn't really shock or surprise, but actually does. The main problem comes when you try to work 
 out if it's worth 40 - 50 (that's very nearly $80 - $100 to our colonial friends) . Bear in mind 
 that I'm only referring to single player here  if you rent it, you'll be done before you have 
 to return it, so definite value for money. Buying it full price, however I honestly don't know. 
 I don't know when I'll want to play through it again, but you do have the added "arcade mode" to 
 keep you busy
  
  Oh, and the rap? Very Gears of War. Inexcusable.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: jorsalves
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 23, 2007 3:44 am PT
Review:  This game continues the quality of the previous call of duty's series! The animations and scripts 
 are very good. For example... if you shoot some guy, sometimes he keeps shooting to every direction 
 until it lies dead in the ground! There were some chapters that are less intense (like shooting 
 things from an helicopter) , but it still keeps the fun and changes a bit the running and killing 
 formula. The sound also is very good, with all the explosions, shoots and with your friends giving 
 some good advices to help you to run though the game. In my opinion its a great game to try because 
 it provides a great and almost cinematographic experience. In the overall, it's a simple playing, 
 funny and immersive game to play! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thedestroyer92
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 23, 2007 1:00 am PT
Review:  I remember eagerly anticipatng its launch. Unfortunately i did not have enough cash at that time. 
 When i had saved up enough i immediately rushed to a nearby games sore and bought it. I started 
 playing the moment i reached home and it didnt disappoint. The graphices were great better than 
 call of duty 3. The war-torn city environment was captivating and realistic. Theres hardly a moment 
 for you to catch your breath on the american missions as the soldiers just keep on coming. The 
 only drawback is that the single player campaign was too short. I finished it in 5 hours. Another 
 drawback was that i felt that the game could have been a bit more unscripted. At times i found 
 myself walking a set route with no other alternatives to my objective. All in all its a great game 
 worth buying. Wonder if there will be an expansion pack. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: crazy4life54
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 22, 2007 9:25 pm PT
Review:  One of the greatest games of the year! Must play for fps and non fps fans alike.
  The Single player is not very long but it is fun none the less. The multiplayer is highly addictive 
 and gets you glued to your computer for hours on end. Not to mention the total eye candy that is 
 the graphical magnificence created by infinity ward. I am at a loss for words while trying to describe 
 the magnitude of enjoyment you will receive from playing this wonderful game. Although there are 
 some minor technical difficulties that still need to be worked out over at infinity ward, we expect 
 to see results soon. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Paladin_basic
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 22, 2007 5:04 pm PT
Review:  Call of Duty 4 is a lovely looking game. I don't think anyone would disagree with that statement. 
 Indeed my own PC does not get the very best out of the game and yet still impressed me greatly
 
  
  Also the sound effects are fantastic and add greatly to the experience
  
  I've enjoyed playing it immensely and especially liked the C130 gunship level and thought that 
 was very good (although a few extra sound bites from the actors would have been nice as they do 
 say the same few things repeatedly)
  
  On the downsides though, and frankly thats why I've given it a score of 8.5 is for the following 
 reasons:-
  
  * There's no separate Music slider in the Options, and at times the music blaring out drowns out 
 the in game speech. Most games these days have options for music, speech and sound effects, this 
 game lacks that and it's surprising
  
  * The campaign is over just as you're getting into it. It is most definitely way too short. Sorry 
 but multiplayer just gets old with any game after a while and COD4 is no different unless you have 
 a huge variety of maps to choose from
  
  * On the subject of the campaign, linear doesn't even begin to describe it. You are led down corridors, 
 tight streets and alleys etc. There's no real alternative paths to take, you are firmly hand held 
 through the levels
  
  * Set pieces:- No doubt part of the reason for the hand holding is so you witness some great set 
 pieces... very nice to look at but once seen a few times could possibly become boring and "skippable"
 
  
  Granted, personally I enjoy the single player part of the game more than multiplayer. I've not 
 given the game a poor score by any means, but thought a review that went into more detail about 
 the lack of single player longevity and point out the few issues with the game was warranted
  
  Oh and be warned!!! COD 4 is a high spec game. Not a bad thing as games should always move 
 forward, but you'll need a pretty serious PC to run the game at a steady frame rate with max graphical 
 settings!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: dezinte
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 22, 2007 4:39 pm PT
Review:  some nice ideas but - maps are kinda cheap, you cant enter many spots that you would want, you 
 cant even open doors yourself. and the mworst thing is you get stuck alot on the map because oif 
 small trashbin laying around, some box or whatever. its really getting on nerves.
  game has good graphic and some nice ideas of gameplan which saves it a bit. some moments are too 
 easy, and some are too hard its also not helping.
  and i miss the option of chaning difficulty duriing a game. i know they test skills on start, but 
 i think they forgot that on start you dont know where to go so how are you suspossed to complete 
 the task very fast. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kuvze
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 22, 2007 1:19 pm PT
Review:  i am a call of duty fan.. but when i played this one i was just so breath taken at everything in 
 the game that i just cant write a review in so less words. the game play was very small, just a 
 few hours. but so much is just so a lot that you wont regret buying this game. the level at chernobyl 
 where you play in stealth just gave the word stealth all its meaning. i was all amazed at the quality 
 this game offers for all its levels independently. amazing graphics, real good details to everyone, 
 sniper shots look like you really shot somebody, so good, so fast paced, so detailed, so energetic, 
 extraordinary finishing, great and polished game play, terrain, locales, it was all like a real 
 movie, full points and credits to the makers of this game, should say this one is a must in anyones 
 library, if each level had more length to offer it would have been one hell of a warfare..!!!! 
 i should give full 10 for this game but am deducting 0.5 just for the length it offers, there is 
 just no bad remark.. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zxl
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 22, 2007 9:14 am PT
Review:  "Ok, who is shooting me and where" Oh wait there's enemies all around me. Playing Call Of Duty 
 4 for the first time is like jumping into ocean with concrete legs, literally. The first mission 
 was kinda what you would expect from the "Modern Warfare" -thing, but then it went all messy. Not 
 that you should hate it, but compared to previous CODs spotting enemies is way harder. Buildings 
 are more complex and you have to look in every direction 'cause while you go forth, every sec, 
 you get the feeling you're surrounded by enemies, and no matter how many you kill, there's always 
 a clone for the guy you just annihilated and why is it that, almost every mission, something goes 
 wrong. The storyline was good, you get to play in various enviroments.
  
  For the gameplay, it felt like the developers preserved the physics and handling the guy matching 
 to predecessors, and so the veteran cod-players could get a hang of it easily. 
  
  Challenging game indeed, and very well made. Very easy game to play (at least to those who likes 
 fps-games) , too bad it was so short, and by short I mean SHORT. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: naveh3
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 22, 2007 8:26 am PT
Review:  well for me this game is the first i played with my new upgraded computer, i upgraded from Single 
 core 2500 AMD and 6600GT to Dual core intel (of my brother) and HD2600XT so on the old system it 
 didn't even worked (the demo) (both systems are with 1GIG RAM)
  
  so it already was beautiful for me, and it runs smoothly and i never was used to games running 
 smoothly on my computer (with all settings at the max) :P
  
  other than that it's just so beautiful , realistic movements (animations) and worth playing like 
 more than once.
  
  i never played the multiplayer cause i dont have internet at my own place but it's probably even 
 better. and more fun than the single, but even the single is alot of fun, the animations, the speech, 
 nice voices and voice act, everything about it looks so realistic and the enviroment and teh sounds 
 really puts you in the game, and you can feel like you in-the game. really amazing game, unfortuntly 
 somewhat short but than again you guys have the multiplayer to extend the short single campaign.
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: desdarien
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 22, 2007 7:51 am PT
Review:  Most likely the best game i have ever played for the PC or any of the consoles. This game surely 
 beats out all of the competition and I give it a 10-10 its single player may be short but for this 
 game it does not matter. Its the best for multi-player and the online multi-player and graphics 
 are amazing. There is no better game by far with online play this game beats out all the competition. 
 It does require more skill to play than any Halo games but thats what makes it so great that you 
 need skill not just a simplistic step to do something. As short as the single player is though 
 it does make a great build up and training for anyone for multi-player. So thank you Activision 
 for releasing such a great game and you will get further business from me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HessenKnight
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 22, 2007 5:29 am PT
Review:  Hitler. Nazi. A-Bombs. Europe. 
  
  These four words have become the basis of the Call of Duty series. While at first this seemed awesome, 
 it has become a beaten path. To the samey enviorments and enemies, and the now dull story line, 
 the series didn't seem to be going anywhere. Until now.
  
  Call of Duty 4 is indeed an achievment. It has proved the quality over quantity theory to be true, 
 it has a multiplayer component that shoots Halo 3 out of the water, and has visuals that in some 
 cases, look better than Crysis, while managing to run on a mid-range system. Years from now, while 
 an aged gamer plays on his 6.00 GHZ Quin-Core rig, with his brand new 3 GB Video Card, he will 
 come across an old game called Call of Duty 4, and a worn grimace will bloom into a wide grin.
 
  
  To begin, Call of Duty 4 just looks amazing. It has an incredible sense of scale and intensity, 
 the animations ae smooth and flawless, and the sound is second to none. The way that CoD4 tells 
 the story is excellent, taking after Half-Life for a having a silent protagonist, with the player 
 always looking through his perspective. The game always manages to shock and at the same time, 
 amuse the player without any hitches. The game has amazing model detail and lighting effects, an 
 extrodinary vibe that makes you feel like someone plopped you into the middle of a massive war, 
 ridden with conspiracy and intrigue, full of evil war-leaders and justice loving commandos. The 
 game seamlessly integrates dynamic lighting with particle effects to simulate floating debris and 
 dust. The sound is rich and full of life, as it lifts an incredible load to complete Visual/Audio 
 package that kicks so much a$$. CoD 4 is the reason to upgrade, versus Crysis.
  
  The story is nothing to sneeze at either. The story is complex and well-written, and at some point 
 you will begin to wonder if you launched a Tom-Clancy game by accident. The story switches from 
 the perspective of a British S. A. S. agent code-named "Soap", to a hardened Marine by the name of 
 Paul Jackson. The story is also excellently told. As said before, the player never abandons the 
 first-person perspective, which is an excellent way to show off the superb Dpeth of Field effects. 
 You will be doing various tasks, such as storming a Estonian cargo ship, to attempting to assasinate 
 a russian war-leader, and every one of these missions is oozing with awesome. Even though the story 
 lasts a very short 6 hours, it is definitely well-crafted.
  
  The multiplayer satisfies the grind-junkies to the death-math vets. For each kill, challenge completed, 
 or objective completed, you collect experience points, which level you up in rank. Once you go 
 up in rank, there is a likely chance that you can unlock 'perks' (the equivalent to skills, or 
 powers) , new weaponry and secondary grenade. This might seem like a gimmick, but this will keep 
 you playing for a long time, as you can brag to your friends about how you got promoted to a Master 
 Seargent last night. The multilayer looks just as good as the single-player. It feels just like 
 a real war, as bullets and shrapnel fly, players rush for cover while the enemy snipers and defenders 
 are reloading, and spec-ops players plant C-4 bombs in frequent enemy paths. There is a class for 
 every one. If you like to be on the front-line, the soldier is your choice, if you want to play 
 god and decide who lives and dies from above, the sniper is your choice, among other classes. And 
 these don't suit you, you can make your own class. Be it a tweaked sniper to accomidate those rare 
 close-encounters, or to suit the grenade junkie, enable the perk that allows you to carry more 
 than the usual amount of grenades. The multiplayer component does not suffer any visual or audio 
 degrading as in most games, but it might push your system a little bit more than playing the single-player 
 component.
  
  To make things short, this is quite possibly one of the best games to date. If you have a PC to 
 run, or you own a 360, you would be mad to not buy CoD4. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shalashaska88
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 15, 2008 12:18 am PT
Review:  This is one of the best shooters of the year. It certainly is a good move for Infinity Ward for 
 jumping into the modern warfare bandwagon. The campaign feel slick, its fast and furious, and its 
 not hard on less powerful systems.
  
  The multiplayer has a definite longevity to it. You fire up through the ranks by unlocking perks 
 and stuff. The combat is fun and the community is always there.
  
  Now lets talk about the single player. The campaign may last only to 5 to 7 hours, but its never 
 a dull ride from start to finish. But be careful when you're choosing your rank at the beginning, 
 because playing the game at hardened itself is very, very hard, even for veterans of the game. 
 I myself played all of the Call of Duty games (except the 3rd which to me wasn't as good as IW's 
 offerings) and i thought this is the toughest.
  
  One of my favorite mission is the one where you are tracking Zakhaev 's son. The firefights just 
 don't get any better than that one. The other is the Soap's level where he has to run up the hill, 
 and back track to the bottom, while dodging bullets like crazy. 
  
  The weapons are also varied and to me were the highlight of the game. The javelin is a nice touch, 
 wouldn't want to be at the receiving and of it though. 
  
  The experience never gets stale or repetitive, as it gets better and better towards the end. Again, 
 this is one of the best shooter this year, and its highly recommended for fans of the series and 
 shooter fans out there. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spiderman120988
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 21, 2007 9:42 pm PT
Review:  This is my first game to be rated a perfect score and it absolutely deserves it. For those of you 
 who've played the previous COD installments, you'll know that those take place in World War II. 
 After making COD2, (COD3 was made by Treyarch Studios) , Infinity Ward worked on COD4, this time 
 bringing it to modern times. It was a risky gamble, but in the end it payed off, as COD4 is THE 
 best installment out the series to date. The story revolves around a Middle Eastern terrorist in 
 cahoots with a Russian Ultranationalist and its up to the British S. A. S. (Special Air Service) 
 and United States Marines to take them or else let World War III break out. You get to play as 
 John "Soap" MacTavish (British) and Paul Jackson (American) through 3 acts, and a prologue. The 
 single player campaign is quite short, shorter then most first person shooters, but its so action 
 packed and tension filled that you'll want to play through it again. You'll be facing thousands 
 of soldiers, experience nuclear weapons going off, and you'll die a lot, but the fun factor is 
 so high, you won't get frustrated. The graphics, despite being Dx9 are impressive. Battles come 
 to life as soldiers clash in the battlefield, bullets striking metal, grenades going off, soldiers 
 dying and flailing about. It's pretty violent stuff and reaffirms the belief that war IS hell. 
 The sound is great too. All the weapons have "weight" to them and each are all unique. The music 
 us quite memorable too, and reminds me of a movie score. After the campaign is over, you can fire 
 up the multiplayer can kick everyones butt. Overall COD4 is one of THE must get PC games of 2007, 
 and if you're limited by budget or by your parents, make sure that COD4 makes it to your gift list. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: deathwatch28
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 21, 2007 7:49 pm PT
Review:  This game is awesome. If you don't already own it it why not!!! It is the best first person shooter 
 i have ever play on the pc. It's fairly short that i'll grant you but it's an amazining experience 
 from start to finish, just make sure you play the last 5 mins after the credits. The online play 
 is quite substantial too lots of ranks to upgrade and plenty of maps and weapon upgrades to discover. 
 Overall a very worthwhile package with plenty of replay value on different difficulty levels or 
 almost infinite online play options. You will not be disappointed!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: w0rmy
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 21, 2007 6:34 pm PT
Review:  I really can't say enough good about Call of Duty 4. 
  
  To be honest, I was far from impressed with Call of Duty 2 (#3 was made by a 3rd party developer) . 
 I thought it was far inferior to the original. It was a good game but not a classic like the first 
 one. So, I wasn't expecting much with #4.
  
  This game is simply outstanding! It's a great story, lots of action and very good graphics. It's 
 the most intense modern shooter I've played yet. There's a huge variety of game play. You'll do 
 a little tactical on the ground and in some very cool locations. You'll get to man a kick-ass flying 
 arsenal of weapons on one level - many things will explode.
  
  Then there's the multiplayer. Find the right server and it's a blast!
  
  This is just a great 
 game - my Game of Year so far! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Crembo
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 21, 2007 8:17 am PT
Review:  First impressions were very good. Menu is simple , lots of graphic settings. Not super hyped. Demo 
 was very interesting.
  
  The singleplayer is superb. The story is so well made , you can play with both SAS and USMC! I 
 didn't expect that. 
  Also there are stealth missions which are very well made. Too bad it's so short.
  The multiplayer 
 is also very good. It's even near the level of BF series multiplayer. A bit more , and it would 
 be equal to BF one. Though it would be nice to have a co-op multiplayer to finish the campaign 
 with other , real guys. That would be also very fun.
  Now to AI. AI is good , the game itself is hard when you set the difficulty to hard.
  Good thing 
 here.
  
  Graphics are great , again , UT3 engine is a very good creation. Good job here.
  But like in MOHA , you can't break anything.. Looks everything built from titanium (=/)
  
  
 Control is very simple. A standard for FPS games.
  
  And for the conclusion :
  The game is SO well made! You really feel that you're are in a battle! The battle atmosphere is 
 made superbly well! I'd recommend it to everyone , even if you're a singleplayer guy , or a multiplayer 
 one. 'Cos both are very well made. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Poisongage
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 21, 2007 5:56 am PT
Review:  I must admit that I have always loved Medal of Honor and Call of Duty. The old WWII games really 
 kept me up late many a night. I was always impressed with the stories and the game play that CoD 
 had to offer, and when I played CoD4 I instantly thought: This is really something! I cannot imagine 
 that you could make a war-simulation FPS any better in the foreseeable future. When you are reloading 
 you gun, when you are hit and when you get to cap off an enemy - it is all so realistic and fun! 
 
  
  The only major thing that this game lacks is the storyline. It its almost nonexistent and you don't 
 get to play the game for very long before it is over, which pulls down the game immensely. Infinity 
 Ward should have concentrated on making the story of the game longer and better, instead of making 
 the game a multiplayer game. 
  
  Some of the better aspects of the game are that you get to be 2 different soldiers a Marine and 
 a SAS operative. The visuals in the game are given a boost because you are experiencing combat 
 from different regions of the world. I would have liked some jungle action, but that would probably 
 have been too similar to Crysis.
  
  The game play, the graphics and the action are all a 10'er in my book, and definitely the best 
 in the series, but the boring and cut down story ruins my view of the game. But the game is still 
 so realistic and entertaining that I think it is one of the better FPS' to come out this fall.
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: catremihut
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 21, 2007 3:38 am PT
Review:  i must say that i lived some unique moments within this sp campaign, its true that its short, but 
 hey i have been put in all kind of situations and got to get my hands on all kind of weapons.
 
  i have played all versions of call of duty and i must say that this one's story has impressed 
 me the most, very dramatic scenes, versatile combat situations and most of all i was impressed 
 by the modern weapons of course when it comes to butchery moments AK does the job.
  in short i would like to say that its the best war game.
  smart AI
  smooth graphics
  lots 
 of weapons
  nice combat scenarios
  great story
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: maniac060
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 21, 2007 1:08 am PT
Review:  Infantry Ward left it's WW2 style to bring up a new, more modern, type of warfare. Call of Duty 
 4 Modern Warfare is the newest war game from Infantry Ward and Activision. in COD4 you take control 
 of 2 characters, a British S. A. S recruit (named "Soap") and an American Marine (Sgt. Johnson) . 
 At the start of the game, you take control of Soap and have a tutorial mission. How you do in the 
 tutorial determines the games difficulty setting you should pick. In the second level you are in 
 control of a president (not American) and you get executed by a terrorist named Al-Asad. This is 
 pretty well the introduction to COD4, and of course it is a fictional story at that. The level 
 before that is a mission where you find a bomb on a carrier ship and then something blows up and 
 you rush to get off of the sinking ship. Collecting enemy intel on each level will unlock different 
 cheats. Some of these cheats include infinite ammo and a cheat where the enemy turns into a bunch 
 of flying tires when they die. Theres a mission where you take control of three powerful guns on 
 an airplane and shoot group enemy troops. COD4 is full of action from start to finish. The loading 
 screens can be pretty slow before each of the campaign missions, but the breifing and the information 
 given during those loading screens can keep you entertained. The voice acting, when your actually 
 payign attention to it over all of the gun fire, is incredibly done. The graphics are outstanding 
 and deffinetly worthy of being new-gen graphics. Being able to shoot through thin materials such 
 as plywood, sheet metal, and the likes makes it easier to kill enemies when they just don't want 
 to pop their heads out from behind walls and such. The enemy AI is very smart and for the most 
 part know what to do and where to go and deffinatly how to kill you. The only bad thing about the 
 campaign mode is that it is way to short for such a good game. You cant help but want to play it 
 more. To make up for such a short game there is a special surprise after you finish watching the 
 ending credits. The online multiplayer is the biggest fraction of Call of Duty 4. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BamaPlaya07
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 20, 2007 8:50 pm PT
Review:  The campain may have been short, but every bit as fun. The new modern weapons and vehicles as well 
 as the exciting twists make you never want to put the controller down. The multiplayer is, to put 
 it simply, addicting. The different classes add for excellent team work and strategies to overwhelm 
 your foes, and the kill bonuses add intense and exciting as well as almost unpredictable action 
 that makes you have withdrawals until you play the game again. Overall, it is an exciting and innovative 
 game, and is absolutely worth every penny you put into buying it. If you don't at least pay this 
 game, you will always be a Halo bum and will never know what a truly great game is. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mohitmukheja
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 20, 2007 5:33 pm PT
Review:  COD 4 was one of the most anticipated games of the year. i liked all the previous versions and 
 wanted to get my hands on it as soon as possible. 
  here is the summary:-
  
  Great story line
  Great graphics.. one of the best ever
  Great AI and sound effects..
  Sniper 
 missions are amazing
  Most of the time U will be in a team (like in other cods)
  
  One of the best things is that every mission has something different in it. Unlike other war games 
 in which u just have to take the same kind of gun and go on shooting in this game there are some 
 missions were u are a sniper.. some time with a team.. sometime u have to carry some one on shoulder.. 
 handling gun in a shit, on the truck , 
  
  there is a big variety of weapons. and the best thing is that u will get almost all kind of guns 
 in a mission. u will start with two weapons and can pick up weapons during the missions. 
  
  level of difficulty..
  well i played it at the second hardest level and so enjoyed it. please 
 dont play it at the beginer level u will find it very easy. try to play as hard as possible. u 
 will get the money worth.
  
  length -
  the only sad thing is that the game is short in story line. well actually since the game is so 
 nice u willnot like to get up before completing it and this also makes it short. i will say the 
 average gameplay time is 6 - 8 hours depends upon the difficulty. 
  
  All in all this game is a worth buy. u will not at all regret after buying it. 
  A nice game 
 after a long time.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: prasithm
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 20, 2007 12:17 pm PT
Review:  Well, my mates out there will argue on that point, but for me FPS is about pure shooting with a 
 bit of human intelligence. COD4-Modern Warfare delivers exactly what I called that perfect shooter; 
 every thing is so real, no aliens, no bio-genic humans, not even droids but just humans. COD4 has 
 a lovely graphics engine where every thing looks so real, and it doesn't tax the system much. In 
 medium settings it ran 35+frames in my X1600Pro OC + ATHLON 3200 combination.
  The game has a well built story line, and the characters play their part so well, even the Scot 
 accent of Macmillan is so Scottish. The AI in this game is not a breakthrough but its tough, both 
 allies and foes will mark their targets very well, so in a tight situation ( near the end of the 
 game ) make sure you use that flash bangs and grenades wisely and always have a cover, unless you 
 want to reload the game continuously. 
  When it comes to weapons, you are naturally spoilt with the range of weapons at your disposal, 
 but I prefer to stick with the Grenade Launcher Rifle with the laser scope and a sniper rifle. 
 But if its real assault you're looking for feel free to carry our beloved shotgun and the machine 
 gun at all times.
  
  To wrap it up, COD 4 Modern warfare is a MUST PLAY game for any gamer, and by far the most exiting 
 6 hours of gaming I ever enjoyed. 
  
  p. s - after u finish the game completely, feel free to explore the arcade game, specially the one 
 in the airline !! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HAMODA
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 20, 2007 10:19 am PT
Review:  it's in new age gaming .... very good ....... But as any Call of Duty fan can tell you, the people 
 at Infinity Ward are skilled storytellers and masterful scenarists. It's because of this that Modern 
 Warfare finds itself in the company of movies like Black Hawk Down, rife with intense portrayals 
 of serious and complicated situations that, though perhaps not entirely realistic, still convey 
 to the rest of the nonenlisted world how war might feel: completely f***ed up. The premise is loosely 
 based on several volatile political situations on the other side of the world: A bloody coup occurs 
 in an unnamed Middle Eastern nation that is fed up with Western influence and perceived imperialism. 
 A Russian ultranationalist offshoot is trying to influence the outcome and use the Arab state's 
 upheaval as a distraction for more nefarious and immediate plans. It's as much CNN as it is recent 
 seasons of 24 -- events and timelines obviously exaggerated for effect. The story unfolds from 
 an unapologetic "us versus them, and they are wrong" perspective, with little time spent on the 
 larger philosophy of war. And that's fine, because it's ultimately a story about how soldiers execute 
 their orders: efficiently, without question, with no room for pulpits. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nutcrackr
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 20, 2007 5:35 am PT
Review:  After writing the review below it occurred to me that I actually looked at COD 4 as a single player 
 game with a multiplayer component. This is exactly the wrong way around, its primarily a multiplayer 
 game with some great modes and is easy to get into. Initially I was fairly disappointed with the 
 single player but it shouldn't have been my main focus. So for me, it's a multiplayer game with 
 a short single player campaign and this way it becomes very valuable.
  
  If however you are happy with a 5 hour intense and nicely varied single player campaign that will 
 be similar to previous Call of Duty games then you need read no further, the game is for you. If 
 you never really liked Call of Duty and the way it structures the single player then you will need 
 to make a bigger decision. Do you want to play multiplayer? If the answer is no then look elsewhere 
 for a game of better value and come back to this one later when it drops in price.
  
  The single player in this game will often consist of you shooting down a horde of respawning enemies 
 until you have killed them all. They will respawn in windows, respawn on rooftops, respawn around 
 corners-you name it they will respawn from it. Then once you cleaned an area up, the commonly used 
 open-door animation will let you progress to the next area. There is devolution of the single player 
 first person shooter experience here. In fact there are very few unique experiences to be had, 
 The points of player uniqueness come from choosing a weapon from a dead soldier and shooting a 
 soldier in the legs, head or torso or maybe throwing a grenade at them. There are a few areas in 
 the game where you can move from point a to point b around a different piece of rubble or clear 
 a house before another, but you're AI friends will be right behind you anyway so it won't feel 
 much different.
  
  So that paints a pretty negative picture, but it needn't be, as I have found out people really 
 love this style of gaming, it's straightforward and it's like an interactive movie. You just find 
 cover, do what you're told and shoot stuff, simple. Its well put together from start to finish, 
 has some nice varied missions, does some great scripted pieces and keeps good pace. 
  
  For multiplayer, take Battlefield 2, shrink the maps down to Counter-strike: Source size, remove 
 the commander, vehicles and give everybody the ability to call an airstrike or helicopter for support 
 based on their kill streak and you have COD 4 mp in a nutshell. One of the biggest things here 
 though is the customisation. You can choose weapon load outs along with grenade types, camo for 
 your weapon and most importantly a series of perks. As the name indicates you can pick a limited 
 number of these, which may increase your health, drop a grenade on your death, or make you more 
 accurate just to name a few. None of these perks seem overly powerful but they just allow you to 
 work with your own play style better and helps extend the life of multiplayer by changing things 
 up both for you and for enemies you encounter. As you gain points you rank up and unlock extra 
 weapons/perks and challenges.
  
  The multiplayer has a large downside though, and its directly related to the player count or map 
 size. Quite frankly there are too many players in most of the maps. 32 player servers are spam 
 fests due to the size of most maps, constant airstrikes and helicopters are called in. This rapidly 
 degenerates the gameplay and even without these powers there is very little downtime or waiting, 
 you will die too fast. I strongly urge you to avoid most large servers for this reason. 
  
  The deathmatch spawn system places you near a friendly soldier, which is great, it also means that 
 in general the map flows around in a circular motion when one team pushes in one direction more 
 players continue to spawn thus overwhelming the other force. This absolutely maximizes the maps, 
 you will see every bit of it and from different sides which is great way of learning it. It also 
 greatly extends satisfaction when you manage to bypass enemy lines and come in to attack them from 
 behind, getting yourself a 10 kill streak and unleashing hell.
  
  There are quite a few multiplayer modes, albeit sometimes only slight variations on others. Defusal 
 scenarios where one team goes for one of two targets, and another where both teams fight over a 
 single bomb. Headquarters is just a moving base of defense netting the team points per second when 
 it holds control. The modes aren't new but they are well implemented. The game is well polished, 
 especially on the multiplayer side and runs like a dream, features some good voice work, great 
 netcode and some great multiplayer modes even if some of the maps struggle to use them to the fullest.
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: morph_sa
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 20, 2007 4:42 am PT
Review:  Fans of the COD series will love the game and the setting is certainly a step up from the hugely 
 overdone WW II era. You certainly get the feel of being a participant in todays breaking news. 
 Graphics and gameplay were smooth and the storyline, while basic, flows well. It's not gripping 
 enough to leave you wondering after each cutscene, but that's probably due to it's predictability. 
 Aiming down the sights could be frustrating at times as the sights tend to get in the way and I 
 personally preferred the weapons with iron sights for this reason. AI was good but your computer 
 teammates often run in front of you and can get in the way, especially when you're peaking around 
 a corner and trying to get off a shot on a small target. Another problem for me was the environments, 
 as my character tended to get caught often on corners and debris such as burnt out cars or solid 
 cover. Overall however the game is well worth the purchase price, even though the single player 
 was a bit short. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BlazingEternity
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 20, 2007 4:03 am PT
Review:  Ever since the very first release, the Call of Duty series has been considered a top tier shooting 
 game time after time. Focusing on the very popular World War II era, the COD series always managed 
 to combine cinematic story with action packed gameplay that oozed quality and attention to detail, 
 taking home many GOTY awards over the years. Unfortunately for us PC junkies, COD 3 never made 
 it to the world's best gaming platform and quite honestly it appeared that Activision were never 
 going to bring the series back. Fortunes change however, and with the release of Call of Duty 4: 
 Modern Warfare comes the return of COD to the PC platform, and what a return it is.
  
  COD 4: Modern Warfare, as the full title would suggest, is no longer based on the WWII era of warfare 
 that defined the COD series. This must have been a tricky decision to make by Activision and developers 
 Infinity Ward as while the WWII shooting genre was starting to reach its peak with COD 2 let alone 
 COD 3, the modern warfare shooting genre is not exactly needy itself, already featuring considerable 
 quality mainly from the Ghost Recon and Rainbow Six series. With this in mind, COD 4 really needed 
 to be something special and something very impressive to take such titles on, and not only is this 
 achieved, but COD 4 could quite easily be the best modern era shooter you have ever played, if 
 not the best shooter in general.
  
  With today's world of global terrorism and nuclear warheads spread across multiple powers, it isn't 
 hard to imagine the type of storyline that the singleplayer campaign mode in COD 4 portrays. With 
 some special exceptions aside, the vast majority of the campaign mode puts you the gamer into the 
 shoes of either a British SAS soldier by the name of 'Soap', or a US Marine by the name of Sgt. 
 Paul Jackson as you ultimately try to prevent notable figures in extremist Arabic and Russian factions 
 from securing and using nuclear arms on the Western nations. Most missions in the game are either 
 located in the urban Middle East or country side Eastern Europe regions although a few exceptions 
 exist here and there.
  
  The first impression you'll get from the gameplay in COD 4 is just how well rounded and solid the 
 engine is. The feel as you move about is very authentic, from the kick back on the game's many 
 included real world guns to the earth shattering physics of explosions. Even the very simple stuff 
 like being able to hurdle objects and obstacles to effectively using objects as cover shows not 
 only how much attention was directed at making the small but important things work right but it 
 also shows the emphasis put on the engine to be versatile enough so it wouldn't restrict any of 
 the action. There is no better proof for this than the game's variation, and by that I don't just 
 mean changes in scenery and changing in weapon types - I mean variation in the core gameplay itself.
 
  
  A lot of shooters these days give you a gun, tell you your objectives and throw the same style 
 of gameplay at you over and over again until the ending credits, but COD 4 isn't like this. The 
 COD series has always tried to spice up the action by providing variation in what you do and how 
 you do it, but COD 4 really takes the cake in this regard. As mentioned, the game revolves around 
 the usage of both SAS and USMC soldiers and the gameplay differences between the two are very distinct. 
 As 'Soap' of the SAS you will be taking on more discreet stealth style missions that, while being 
 action packed, aren't quite as 'wham, bam thank you uncle sam' as the USMC missions and the contrast 
 between the two as both storylines intertwine makes for gameplay that never feels dull. The highlight 
 of the game's variation would have to come with a mission titled 'Death from Above', which tasks 
 you with the role of a gunner on a AC-130 gun ship (modern version of 'Puff the Magic Dragon') 
 firing down on hostile forces from well above in the night sky - this sort of wide spectrum of 
 gameplay is a trademark of the COD series and COD 4 is no exception.
  
  Perhaps even more integral than the variation to the fantastic singleplayer experience is the challenge 
 the game will provide mainly thanks to the game's tough but fair AI. With four difficulty settings 
 on offer, the game provides everything from an extremely easy to an extremely tough experience 
 that will suit just about every level of FPS gamer out there. Regardless of the difficulty setting 
 though, it is clear that a lot of energy was directed towards making baddies in this game smart 
 to play against and not just powerful in sheer numbers (although at times the game will not hesitate 
 to combine both smarts and large numbers) . They will use cover effectively, and you'll most certainly 
 be killed a few times by intelligent grenade placements that take you off guard - hell, the baddies 
 in COD 4 will even pick up your own grenades and throw them back at you at times. This intelligence 
 also translates into actual effective AI friendlies in the game, which are by your side in most 
 missions, although it is clear the game doesn't make them too good as to take significant killing 
 opportunities away from yourself. A very nice balance is achieved that leaves you with plenty to 
 do, but at the same time you never really feel the game revolves around your character which so 
 many shooters fail to pull off.
  
  I'm struggling to find something I don't like about COD 4's singleplayer mode, because it really 
 is that polished and that precisely crafted. The combination of challenging but ultra fun gameplay 
 with enough variation to keep you going without the hint of unwelcome repetition must be experienced 
 to believe, and the storyline while being quite cliche is down to earth and believable. I guess 
 if I had to offer some criticism, two things come to mind. First of all, the singleplayer experience 
 is pretty short lived and can be finished in one moderately lengthy session which is a bit of a 
 disappointment but one of the reasons this is so comes down to the fact the game is just so addictive 
 and awesome you won't want to shut it off until you finish anyway. The second criticism I can conjure 
 up would be that the formula on offer is quite similar to the previous COD titles with its somewhat 
 'scripted' feel - you can definitely tell this game is a member of the COD series despite it jump 
 ahead in years to the modern battlefields. However that is hardly a bad thing because the COD series 
 has always been a quality series - I guess if you had some odd borderline mentally troubling hatred 
 for the COD series before you may not like COD 4, but anything short of that won't be a concern 
 because this game is easily the best COD to date.
  
  And that's just the singleplayer - you haven't fully experienced the excellence that is COD 4 until 
 you delve deeply into the multiplayer mode as well. Just about every PC shooter these days has 
 a MP mode but quite often they tend to feel more like a thrown together attempt to conform to standards 
 rather than a truly authentic attempt at redefining MP gameplay. While I wouldn't say the MP in 
 COD 4 redefines PC MP shooting gameplay, it is a huge selling point to the game that was clearly 
 high on Infinity Ward's priority list. The brilliance of the MP offering comes down to its simplicity 
 - depending on the mode you may have some objectives and HQ's to capture or a bomb to plant/defuse, 
 but other than that it's just an all out shooting brawl with non stop chaos from start to finish. 
 I don't think a second goes by without the sound of a bullet firing or a grenade being let off 
 when you're online. Better yet, the MP mode has a fully working experience points system that remains 
 with your account, granting promotions and upgrades that last with your profile from session to 
 session in the same sort of style as the recent Battlefield titles. You can even create your own 
 custom class if you don't fancy any of the five default classes, combining your own taste of weapons 
 and special abilities.
  
  If I had to offer one possible let down for the PC multiplayer mode, it would be the somewhat "built 
 for Xbox Live" feel, but this is really a reach of a let down at best. Maybe it can be described 
 as simplistic MP gaming because they had to consider Xbox 360 gamers and their somewhat limited 
 control system, I don't know, but even if that was the case it is undeniably very fun and incredibly 
 playable multiplayer gameplay. To be honest I'm not too sure if the PC version has the same MP 
 maps as the console version but I'm guessing it does because some do seem a little small for the 
 PC version's unique player limit of 32 as opposed to 16 on the consoles, but hopefully soon enough 
 we'll see some user created maps that are larger to eliminate this concern. I'm presuming this 
 won't be much of a technical hassle because one of the entries on the multiplayer main menu screen 
 is 'Mods', so it would seem Activision and Infinity Ward are keen to see user created content flourish 
 from the PC gaming community.
  
  Naturally being a brand new FPS it isn't surprising to see Infinity Ward put a lot of resources 
 into the game's visuals, creating what is definitely one of the best looking PC titles out there 
 right now - like this game needed to be even more impressive, right? The character and environmental 
 models are all great, the texturing is fantastic and the flow and feel of the game's animations 
 are exceptional. The atmosphere achieved is really something, particularly in the maps and levels 
 involving the Chernobyl areas, which would have to be some of the most brilliantly eerie and spooky 
 creations ever seen in a computer game that doesn't involve supernatural forces. Just really masterful 
 stuff visually.
  
  Call of Duty 4: Modern Warfare is the complete package. It is an extremely high quality game built 
 on a quick but action packed and addictive singleplayer experience, finished off with a multiplayer 
 experience that rivals the best when it comes to sheer fun and enjoyment, all wrapped up in an 
 engine that delivers with an overriding sense of 'cutting edge' throughout the entire experience. 
 If this game is any indication, the days of 'built for console' shooters stinking up the PC platform 
 are well and truly over because while it does seem reasonably evident that console friendly designs 
 were implemented at times, there is no doubting that COD 4 will be thoroughly considered by the 
 gaming industry pundits come PC GOTY 2007 time - I know it will be for me, that's for sure. I just 
 don't know if I've ever played a shooter so well made with such brilliant execution in almost every 
 regard - this is simply a must have for any PC action/shooter fans 
::::::

::::::
UserName: skyyfox1
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 20, 2007 3:01 am PT
Review:  Modern Warefare says it all. this is my second favorite shooter, after crysis. this game is well 
 made, plays great, and has huge indoor and outdoor maps. it is a squad based tactical shooter so 
 you will have ai controlled team mates. cod 4 has really perfected this genre and it doesn't get 
 much better than this. 
  
  the ai is smart for the most part. will use cover effectively and shoot at your opponents. they 
 won't do much damage though. you are going to have to do most of the damage. usually you are following 
 your captain around. at the beginning of the game you go through training. there's an obstacle 
 course you must pass under the time limit. then you are ready to go. i won't spoil anything for 
 you but let me say this. the game gets very exciting in act 2 and act 3. 
  
  there is a variety of things to do depending on the mission. you basically shoot your way through 
 wave after wave of bad guys with a little help from your squad. then some missions you are flying 
 around in a helicopter as a gunner. reminds me of delta force black hawk down. and there are missions 
 where you control a very big gun and take out targets on the ground being very careful not to hit 
 your own guys who are marked with a strobe light. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: frank_78
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 20, 2007 2:55 am PT
Review:  When CoD4 was announced I screamed "oh, crap, modern warfare, I will miss my Garand...". But after 
 5 minutes of demo I was already counting the days for this game to come out.
  The single player is awesome, you really feel the action, and the actual world events help greatly 
 the feel of this game.
  Unfortunately, when I finished the last mission, I felt a bit frustrated, I simply wanted more, 
 more action, more story, more shooting... I could not believe it was already finished, it was too 
 gorgeous to end so fast, and so I decided to do a thing that I didn't do for years, I decided to 
 start over with veteran difficulty...
  
  The multiplayer is another strong point of this game, it's really well done and the level unlocks 
 are great.
  Someone here complained after "super weapons and abilities", well I suggest you to play the game 
 before whining like this. Weapons are all the same, they kill in a single bullet if you know how 
 to use them, the lvl 1 M16 can kill players in one burst if well aimed, like every other weapon 
 in the game, and the perks... some of the most powerful are available at the beginning, so....
 
  I think that MP in CoD4 is great and if you want to play oldschool, well, you have an "oldschool 
 mode" option when you create a server... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kevin1985_basic
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 20, 2007 12:48 am PT
Review:  My first-review, written for one of the best FPS series I have ever played.. or should I say it's 
 the best FPS around at the moment. This latest series of Call of Duty brings you to the modern 
 world, although nothing much have changed since the previous three.
  
  You will still be thrown in the midst of a great battlefield. Bullets will be flying around. Corpses 
 can be seen everywhere in the battlefield (since I set the number to insane =p) . Your character 
 will still be just a small part of the entire plot itself. Great graphics, gameplay, visual effects, 
 audio effect, etc.. Basically, everything in this game is great like before, and and I certainly 
 feel that more will come eventually. Nobody will say "No" to a game with this quality, actually 
 everyone will love this my friend!~
  
  Best thing: "Matrix" moment for the critical part of the story that makes you add 10 more marks 
 to making this game the best in the industry, and by the end of it, definitely a 100/100 for CoD4: 
 Modern Warfare. Well, I totally LOVED it!~
  
  The ONLY thing I don't like about this great game, is the length of the greatness that I can experience. 
 The single player campaign is a bit too short compared to the rest. Even so, it is a game that 
 you shouldn't miss.. definitely! and prepare to drop your jaws as you play through it. =p 
::::::

::::::
UserName: uchihataru
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 19, 2007 11:09 pm PT
Review:  nice game,. nice graphics, nice gameplay.. cool graphics... smarter AIs.. harder to complete missions.. its 
 probably the best call of duty ... uh new functions like air strike help to make the mission easier... the 
 only problem is the campaign's too short.. so you need to play multiplayer instead to have fun.. well 
 still no 100 words.. but its a nice game worth buying... uh.. worth buying .. and worth the time... and 
 worth the money.. and uh nice gameplay.. so .... buy it... well still no 100 words.. so nice game... nice 
 game... nice game... nice game... nice game... nice game... nice game... nice game... nice game... nice 
 game... nice game... nice game... nice game... nice game... nice game... nice game... nice game... nice 
 game... nice game... nice game... nice game... nice game... nice game... nice game... nice game... nice 
 game... nice game... nice game... nice game... nice game... nice game... nice game... nice game... nice 
 game... nice game... nice game... nice game... nice game... nice game... nice game... nice game... nice 
 game... nice game... nice game... nice game... nice game... nice game... nice game... v 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Trapp2007
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 19, 2007 5:29 pm PT
Review:  The Good:
  
  I agree with some of you the singal player was short but i thought the ending was really good I 
 mean how many endings end with an awesome slo mo I havent seen a good game in awhile and this one 
 gave me a releif that I could still game and it be fun. The multiplayer didnt change much but the 
 ranking system .... FOR ONE THING I HOPE THERE IS A EXPANISON like in united offense veichals bigger 
 levels 64 players that will be the best. 
  
  The bad:
  
  The singal player could of been more drawn out and they could of done something else to the g3 
 instead of making it singal shot... Also you could get to level 55 in a day welll i did.... Either 
 slower ranking or MORE ranks.
  
  Its still fun to be 55 with everything and pwn some noobs. And the cheats LIKE SLO MO adds a lot 
 of replay battle in COD 4 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Astropolia
Rating: 1.5
Date: Dec 5, 2007 5:42 pm PT
Review:  Multiplayer review:
  
  Being a Call of Duty fan since the first one came out i must say this is a big dissapointment. 
 Yes the graphics are stunning, yes there the close combat feeling, but most of all Call of Duty 
 4 is not about having skill. Its about who is willing to spend the most hours in front of the PC 
 to get insane weapons. Call of Duty 4 is an "upgrading nightmare". It remind me more of World Of 
 Warcraft with all that leveling up, or even Project Gotham Racing... earning Kudos. Call of Duty 
 4 is bassicly about eaning money. I prefer a game thats well balanced and equal to everyone right 
 out of the box. I cant be bothered spending four months to have "Winged Magic boots" and "The One 
 ring to rule them all". 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jskosoff
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 19, 2007 2:26 pm PT
Review:  Call of Duty 4 is a Great Game. It has all the action you are looking for in an FPS and even more. 
 The single player is very intense and extremely hard on the Highest difficulty Setting. It is full 
 of Explosions, Stealth, and Run and Gun. The multiplayer has been a big part of Call of Duty, and 
 it still is. Cod4 is a lot like Cod2, a little more intense with plenty of new qualities, like 
 weapons, maps, Perks, and a new ranking/unlocking system which adds a lot to the game, but they 
 kept the main idea of Cod the same keeping it just as much fun as the last. The new ranking/unlocking 
 system and perks is really great, but what i really like about the multiplayer is the maps. They 
 are a lot bigger, many more hiding spots in buildings, and are just more fun to play and look at. 
 The game is great and is a must have, I give Call of Duty 4: Modern Warfare a 9.5 out of 10.
  
  Graphics: 10/10
  Gameplay: 9.5/10
  Sound: 8.5/10
  Story: 9.5/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: adam0926
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 19, 2007 10:59 am PT
Review:  I wasn't to sure about getting this game at first as Crysis was gona come out the following week, 
 but I got it anyway after seeing the good reviews it was getting online.
  I was immediately impressed with the graphics and game play. I am running it on high settings in 
 1440x900 res and it is very smooth on this system
  
  Core 2 Duo E6750
  Asus P5N332-E nforce 680i motherboard
  4GB Corsair XMS2 6400 ram
  7900GS 256mb @618mhz core 
 speed 
  
  The signal player is very good but not half as addictive as the multiplayer like most multiplayers 
 it has a ranking system which is a very good one it wont take years to rank up like battlefield 
 2 but it will take a few rounds. as you rank up you will unlock new perks and weapons. another 
 great feature is the ability to customise your weapons with accessory you can unlock buy getting 
 certain amount of kills or head shots, for example if you get 25 kills with the M4 you will unlock 
 a red dot reflex sight, then you get 25 head shots you will unlock digital camo for you gun. 
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: sexlexia2000
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 19, 2007 10:07 am PT
Review:  this game is amazing. the graphics. the gameplay. the multiplayer. the singleplayer. the weapons. 
 the maps. everything. i would say the only let down is that vehicles are inaccessible and buildings 
 are not completely unrestricted. but wow have they hit the nail on the head here. ive played other 
 cod games and none compare to this. it is even better than the awaited ea game crysis which in 
 my opinion is dogs droppings in comparison. singleplayer mode is very good and challenging aswell, 
 the weapons and perk with upgrades make ur skill honed to waht u do best although the sniper rifles 
 are incredibly hard to use. and a few patches, a few more maps and thsi game will be without lack 
 of a better word... perfect. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NeonCircus
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 19, 2007 5:47 am PT
Review:  Single Player:
  
  Call of Duty 4 delivers a unique gaming experience that is lacking in many modern combat games. 
 The game manages to transfer its atmospheric sense of pace from World War 2 to a modern theater, 
 without becoming too technology focused or derivative. The things that made the previous Call of 
 Duty's (possibly excluding 3) great are present in the fourth installment. Unlike many FPS war 
 games in which you feature as a superhuman, seemingly invincible lone wolf, COD 4 places you on 
 the front line, with a team who makes mistakes and will take bullets as badly as the enemy. The 
 sense of atmosphere as enemy fire whips through the air, occasionally hitting their mark is absolutely 
 breath-taking. The campaign itself is not a masterpiece, but manages to really capture the sense 
 of modern warfare - secretive and hidden from the public eyes and manages to capture the full gamut 
 of modern weaponry. It sweeps from covert sniping to dealing death and destruction from a giant 
 "Spooky" gunship sweeping high above the plains of Russia. Several times during the game there 
 are moments so intense it is fun to replay the whole level just to experience the same rush. If 
 anything however, it really makes you feel sorry for the poor, undeveloped nations whose have to 
 face the invisible death at the hands of Captain MacMillan or the tough Lt. Vasquez. Ultimately, 
 COD 4's campaign will keep you coming back for more, and while it is short, offerings such as Arcade 
 Mode, achievements (the tough Veteran difficulty levels) and cheats breath a sense of fun into 
 an otherwise short single player game.
  
  Multiplayer:
  COD 4 delivers a strong multiplayer selection which provides both instant, accessible action for 
 the uninitiated while giving more hardcore gamers rewards for the long haul. COD 4's 55 ranks provide 
 the average gamer with a set of rewards and incentive to stay in it for the long haul. Perks are 
 a fascinating addition to the mix, as, apart from choosing a traditional weapon loadout (derived 
 from the usual groups - Light Machine Guns, Sniper Rifles, SMGs etc.) , a player can also specify 
 two perks drawn from two separate families. Perks work really well, as players are forced to improvise 
 of adapt to the specifications of each game type and map. Of course, there are 5 savable custom 
 class slots to make adapting much easier. The brilliance in perks is that each manages to maintain 
 a difference (Stopping Power will make your bullets do more damage while Deep Impact will allow 
 them to travel further through surfaces) while not becoming too overpowered or popular. Although 
 many claim specific perks, such as Dead Silence (your character moves noiselessly) , are useless 
 in the face of perceived better perks, the generous selection of different game types and maps 
 will always force you to look for further means of countering your enemy. So while Dead Silence 
 is all but useless in Team Deathmatch, in Hardcore Search and Destroy that silence is invaluable 
 when approaching the enemy position. Aside from unlockable weapons (including a very cool Gold 
 Plate Desert Eagle and a Barrett 50. cal Sniper Rifle) the player can also unlock different scopes, 
 silencers, grips and sights for each gun as well as a camouflage to match. Lastly, each player 
 has one equipment slot, in which they can choose some equipment to compliment their particular 
 class. As such, it is always a pleasant surprise to stumble upon a class mix that works quite well 
 together, or give a shot at perks you would otherwise deem useless. As if the many unlockable aspects 
 of the multiplayer game weren't enough, the player is further rewarded with challenges - fascinating 
 little tasks undertaken in the quest for more exp (to allow you to gain rank and unlock more gear) . 
 As such, COD 4 multiplayer is a great mix of long term goals and short term fun. Leaderboards and 
 stats add a level of competition for the more hardcore gamer while the die hard can access a whole 
 ten levels of Prestige Mode (or "no life" mode as some have termed it) in which the player sacrifices 
 everything they have accomplished in the quest to become the highest ranked. Ultimately, COD 4 
 is an intriguing package that can be appreciated by both the die hard FPS fan and those in it for 
 the spectacle. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MaDaStar
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 19, 2007 4:30 am PT
Review:  I was disappointed when CoD 3 wasn't released for PC, but after playing it on my son's PS3 (rental) , 
 I had figured the series was finished anyway and was relieved that I didn't miss much.
  
  IW has more than made up for CoD 3 with this title. Though the single player campaign is short, 
 and I'm savouring every moment, this is the first FPS that I've ever played online and actually 
 enjoyed. I mean that it's really fun to play against those players that are way better than I am. 
 (That's just about every other player. I die way more than I kill, but I'm slowly getting better.) 
 The satisfaction of scoring a kill is almost embarassingly gratifying. I can't wait until I score 
 a kill using the bayonette. You feel great when the next promotion splashes on screen.
  
  Graphics and sound are fantastic, probably the best of any game released lately. Crysis graphics 
 are excellent, but kicks your GPU in the nads. CoD 4 runs buttery smooth on my 8800 GTS all settings 
 maxed. The sound in CoD series has always been excellent and is still great here. Bullets whiz 
 past your head if you have a surround speaker setup, and really helps locate enemies.
  
  If you're holding back on buying this game because of the short SP campaign, know this: I rarely 
 play any game online and this one has me playing MP more often than the SP. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: terryble85
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 18, 2007 10:00 pm PT
Review:  Very very nice single player FPS, the story is well written, the scenery is well planned,1 think 
 i like bout this is.... there are much more sniper actions than the other FPS i've played, sweet 
 lookin snipers!!! Another thing this game is great is its audio, musics, that makes u wanna tune 
 your speaker high up, provided that your neighbours dun complain...
  Another thing i wanna highlight is, this game is hardware demanding, im running it on high setting, with 
 1440*900 resolution n it sucks up 1.8gig ram!! i think the 200mb ram is the reserve, if u put more 
 ram in, this game will definitely sucks more... (my rig is C2D E6750 2.66 4mb, with 512mb 2900XT)
 
  Hmm... i wonder y so many players complain bout the single player mode's length, i feel that its 
 just right, if its too long, it might be repetitive.. it took me bout 9 hours to finish it (by playing 
 in a moderate speed) good game, a must buy!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hiitzme
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 18, 2007 9:29 pm PT
Review:  Call of Duty 4: Modern Warfare is an amazing game. The single player is a bit too short, but the 
 overall game is a good one. I will rate the Graphics, Gameplay, Audio, Value, and Tilt. 
  
  The graphics aren't state of the art, but they should look decent enough on even older computers. 
 There is a cool Depth-of-Field effect on scoped weapons, which adds immersion. There is not much 
 else to say for the graphics. They aren't as great as some other games such as Crysis, but they 
 do the job. I give graphics an 8/10.
  
  Next is gameplay. The gameplay is great. The single payer is a very cinematic experience not to 
 be missed by any FPS gamer. Many parts in the game do a great job at making you feel like you are 
 in a high-budget movie. 
  
  The multiplayer is where you will probably spend the most time. It is much like CoD2, and other 
 FPS games, except for a cool rank system, as well as Challenges that can be completed as you play. 
 There are 55 ranks of which you can obtain by completing challenges, and killing your enemies. 
 The challenges are just that - challenges. As you rank up, you unlock challenges that you may complete, 
 to unlock things. 
  
  Overall the gameplay in this game is the best I have experienced thus far. After playing single 
 player all the way through on Regular, Hardened, 3/4 through in Regular Arcade mode, and ranking 
 up to Lieutenant Colonel (37) in multiplayer, I give the gameplay a 10/10.
  
  Next, I will discuss audio. I am not a big critic of bad sound, as I could play through an entire 
 game without noticing any audio bugs, so I will make this section quick. Some of the dialogue in 
 certain parts of the game sounds kind of tired, but besides that there is nothing else I have problems 
 with on the audio. I give audio a 9/10.
  
  Finally, I will discuss value. I have played single player for 24 hours, and multiplayer for 31 
 so far. That is 55 hours in all. Since the game came out to about $55 after tax, I'd say it was 
 worth it, as I am still enjoying it. I give value a 9/10.
  
  I'm going to give tilt a 10/10 so I can push the final score up a bit. 
  
  I give Call of Duty 
 4: Modern Warfare a 9.5.
  
  
  -Hiitzme 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Armalite1016
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 8, 2008 8:55 am PT
Review:  Call of Duty 4 i the next sequel in the Call of Duty series, and its anticipation is is justified 
 by the new setting- modern war. All things considered, this installment is a great game, and it's 
 multiplayer is nearly unmatched as far as shooting games go.
  
  Gameplay- Intense. This is probably the most fitting word for the single player campaign in CoD4. 
 Even playing on the normal difficulty setting can prove taxing at times due to enemies who spawn 
 continuously until you move forward. This can tend to be annoying at times, although it is never 
 too frustrating. Still, the use of spawning enemies can get very old very fast. There are also 
 a few parts in the game that seem to be much more hard than anything you have witnessed so far 
 in the game. Besides these minor hiccups, the campaign is very engaging and most of all, fun and 
 intense. The story is fairly generic, featuring the threat of Nuclear warheads that are going to 
 detonate in America, but there are a few twists and shocking moments that help separate this from 
 most other games. Multiplayer is really when you get into the greatness of the game, though, as 
 there are 55 ranks to achieve, and most of the ranks grant you an unlock of some sort including 
 new guns and special player abilities, called perks. Challenges are also present, and each time 
 you beat one, you get a nice chunk of points, and unlock something specific to the challenge you 
 completed. The PC version allows for up to 64 players at a time (this is the largest number I have 
 seen so far) , but the more common number is 16-32. 32 player matches are great, but once you get 
 down to about 16 players or less, the matches start to seem somewhat empty. Since the console versions 
 are limited to 16 players in a server, the PC version of multiplayer has a slight advantage, not 
 to mention the controls. On the other hand, if you are more of a casual gamer who isn't particularly 
 an expert at shooting games, then the PC players might chew you up with the mouse and keyboard, 
 so it really is a matter of personal preference of which platform to buy the game on. All things 
 considered, the gameplay in CoD4 is superb.
  
  Graphics- The graphics are all around excellent, and the animations fluid the majority of the time. 
 There are a few animations that are repeated, such as a soldier cutting through a chain link fence 
 and falling down when he pulls the section out, and these stand out, but usually the animations 
 are stellar and really give the game a pretty chilling feel, as if you really are in combat. The 
 lighting is also really good, especially in the level called "The Bog" which features the very 
 cool night vision goggles, which illuminate the lasers on the guns of your allies. The graphics 
 are also very good in the level where you get to crawl through the outskirts of a nuclear wasteland 
 in a ghillie suit. The atmosphere is so well crafted you can't help but feel uneasy just being 
 in the area. 
  
  Sound- What is there really to say about the sound in this game? Everything sounds appropriate, 
 and definitely helps the feeling you are in an actual battle. The music is also appropriate, giving 
 the game a modern high-tech feel.
  
  Value- The multiplayer alone is worth the money you pay for this game.
  
  Overall, this isn't 
 a perfect game, but it is a superb game in almost every way. If you like military shooters, you 
 should really pick this one up, because it nails the eerie feel that you get when playing- It feels 
 like you are actually participating in these battles. Add this to one of the best multiplayer options 
 in years, and you have yourself an amazing game.
  
  The only problems are the grenade spamming, the Martyrdom perk, aka the n00b perk, and the Helicopters. 
 They need to take out the helicopters. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: erik1116
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 18, 2007 7:04 pm PT
Review:  Call Of Duty 4 Summary:
  
  This is by far the best first person shooter for the following reasons: 
  
  1. Best Multiplayer 
 Experience around. 
  2. Best Graphics I've ever seen.
  3. More Real than life itself. 
  
  I still havent even played the single player campaign and i've had the game for about 2 weeks. 
 Does it matter? Everyone's on multiplayer boosting up their level to be the highest possible. 
 
  It's amazing. Weapon classes.
  Not to mention the kill streaks 
  CALL IN AIRSTRIKE
  CALL IN HELICOPTER
  RADAR! 
  It's amazing. 
  COD4: AN overall accomplishment as a game itself 
 and just absolutely fantastic.
  Buy it. Now. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jade_Monkey
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 18, 2007 6:05 pm PT
Review:  Most of the time Call of Duty 4 was a game that lives up the the bulk of positive reviews out there 
 for it, but there were times where I literally banged my head off of the keyboard and broke whatever 
 was around me out of anger. On the plus side the plot was very well done and was pretty much the 
 main reason I pushed forward to finish the single-player, the graphics were superb for the most 
 part, the multi-player is awesome, but on the downside the friendly AI is among the worst and most 
 frustrating I have encountered, as well two of the missions you are given are outright cruel, as 
 well as a few minor problems i'll touch on later.
  
  The plot of the game involves you pursuing a group of terrorists that may be in possession of nuclear 
 weapons. That sounds stale and done, but there are some great twists that make it seem very fresh. 
 For starters you take the role of two different people going about the mission totally separate 
 from each other. There are also different types of missions, some are timed, some are standard 
 kill anything that moves, and two in particular stand out. One is a mission where you get to be 
 the gunner of a Spectre gunship and have access to the awesome firepower, and also a sniping mission 
 that feels like they put a lot of effort into making it realistic. Without spoiling anything I 
 can say that the end of Sgt. Jackson's portion of the single player is by far one of the coolest 
 moments in my video gaming life, as well the end of the game itself can be easily described as 
 epic. The load times are very short and are often complete before the video detailing what your 
 next mission is even finished. I would also like to praise the melee knife attack. In Call of Duty 
 4 it usually doesn't turn out to be some slash, you actually stick it in the enemy and it really 
 gave me a feeling of power. Now onto some of the not so great portions. As I said before the friendly 
 AI is simply atrocious. They constantly moved right in front of me and messed up shots I had lined 
 up, they have very poor accuracy, they almost always follow me and wait for me to advance, and 
 they can't provide great cover either. I don't expect the AI to complete objectives for me, but 
 if you are going to give me teammates, at least make them capable of assisting in some manner. 
 There is no rate of fire selector in the game, which isn't a major problem, but I do prefer semi-auto 
 on most guns as opposed to full-auto. The missions "Heat", and "One Shot One Kill" are the two 
 missions I referred to as cruel. I consider them cruel because it is basically you versus an entire 
 country of enemies. I ams also not a fan of the infinite enemy respawns that happen at points throughout 
 the game. I find it a cheap tactic, especially combined with the crappy AI given to assist you. 
 The idea is they want you to advance instead of camping and picking the enemy off, but that is 
 a tactic I had to go to a lot because I was advancing without any kind of friendly support worth 
 mentioning. The large quantity of enemy grenades was also annoying. It seemed like each soldier 
 was handed a large basket full of grenades and had one in each hand at any given moment. 
  
  The graphics are superb as I said earlier. The explosions are first rate, the facial features 
 are awesome, the environment destruction especially to vehicles is a pleasure to watch. One blemish 
 I noticed is occasional clipping which you probably won't notice unless you look for it. Also for 
 some reason I found the building textures to seem bland and fake, mostly just the doors though. 
 I ran the game with everything on maximum except for AA and AF which were off, at a resolution 
 of 1920*1200. 
  
  The sound is good, there is good background music and very good weapon noises. The background music 
 really gets you into the game and the weapon noises seem very authentic. The MP5 and the M249 are 
 my favorites for sound. My only complaint is that if you find yourself replaying certain levels 
 a lot, which you very well might if you play on the hardest setting like me, the voice acting can 
 get stale. I also hate that sometimes my friendly squad mates will tell me things like "let's move 
 it" when I am ahead of them, if that were real life i'd turn around and throw them down the hill. 
 They have no right to act like i'm slowing them down when they can't keep up to me. 
  
  The multi-player is really where this game gets exceptional and completely makes up for the poor 
 AI in single-player. There are a ton of ranks to ascend to and most promotions are not too high 
 a climb to get to. The create a class idea is also one of the better ideas I have seen in online 
 gaming recently. It really doesn't tie you down in terms of what you can and can't do, and with 
 unlocks from later ranks you can always update it and tweak your guns and camouflage. You can choose 
 primary and secondary weapons, attachments, camouflage, and perks to use. The perks really add 
 to the gameplay as if you choose ones that compliment your weapons it can give you a real edge. 
 I would of liked to see a feature where you can easily compare your stats and a friends, but it's 
 not a huge issue.
  
  I would like to say that Call of Duty 4 is a very good game. The multi-player will keep you playing 
 a while if you like the game, and the single -player has great plot, but you won't catch me playing 
 through again because of the AI. It was by far worth the money and should at least be tried by 
 shooter fans. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rsylvester
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 18, 2007 3:33 pm PT
Review:  I haven't been giddy about a first person shooter in a long time, but this game has me feeling 
 all warm inside. The single player is short, but really intense (it reminds me of Max Payne in 
 that regard - even though that was a third person shooter) . It's still replayable on harder settings 
 and a still blast a second time through. The multiplayer is brilliant and innovative for the genre 
 in that it has a ranking system that allows you to essentially get better by moving up in rank 
 and acquire better weapons and such. I'm having a blast. What a dilemma for the time being: Team 
 Fortress 2 or COD 4. Very nice. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cruizer2169
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 18, 2007 2:47 pm PT
Review:  I waited for ever for this game to come out..... especially being that it was going to be set in 
 modern day.... haven't had really anything like that worth mentioning since Battlefield 2. Being 
 a big fan of the Battlefield series I was wondering if COD4 was going to be any better or even 
 be worth the wait..... My friends and I all agree... the wait was well worth it! Game play is absolutly 
 awesome! This game is also very BEAUTIFUL!!!..... time spent with all the textures, shading, lighting 
 was well worth it really makes this game POP! 
  
  Overall I was very very very pleased with the outcome of this game, I haven't even started a single 
 player campaign yet... LOL... multiplayer is awesome.... the only hangups that I think they should 
 consider in a new patch for the game is a buddy list system.... I know steam didn't really ever 
 have one that worked for CS but they eventually fixed it... I think that needs to be adapted to 
 this game.... makes it a little easier for your clan members / friends to join in the same server... etc.... 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: matsif
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 18, 2007 2:23 pm PT
Review:  Well, this is the first review I have written, and to be honest I can't think of a better game 
 to review. This game has everything and almost anything you could want in an fps. Good graphics, 
 great story line, and amazing multiplayer. 
  
  The graphics in this game are stunning. Think of what people said when games like HL2 first came 
 out, and their graphics were awesome, and add a billion times better to that. and, unlike crysis, 
 it doesn't kill your system if you have a lower end system.
  
  The story line is also great. It is well put together, with the perfect blend of secret covert-ops 
 missions where you have to use nightvision and such, and great rambo style run and gun attack. 
 also, almost every mission has multiple ways to win it, where you can choose to do a full out charge 
 or stay back and pick off a couple of enemies at a time. and lets not forget a nuke here and there 
 =)
  
  if that didn't sell you already, the multiplayer just brings this game over the edge. the customization 
 factor is perfectly made out, and every gun is usable on every map, unlike on other shooters where 
 you might not be able to use a smg because of map size or something. the sights and other upgrades 
 are also good because by unlocking them you get points to your next rank and you get a red dot 
 sight or a silencer or something. the perks also make the game more fun, making your custom kits 
 perfect for your own style of play.
  
  the only problems in this game are that the campaign is relatively short, but it is so fun that 
 it overcomes that. the other problem is the fact that some people have had their multiplayer stats 
 reset for no reason, but that has been fixed, so these problems are completely dead at the moment.
 
  
  overall, call of duty 4 is an amazing game that is the best in its series so far. It will have 
 you playing it over and over again, and lets not forget the arcade mode ;) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shakm
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 18, 2007 12:51 pm PT
Review:  This regards Single Player:
  
  Gameplay: 
  Classic call of duty style - modern setting makes it even more intense. Incredible pacing - ground 
 battles build up nicely and variety, such as the relaxing air support mission or the helpless-feeling 
 sniper mission is greatly appreciated. The "wow" factor is definately there.
  
  Sound:
  Immersive. Great musical score. There are only a few sounds that feel generic (grenade bouncing 
 for example) .
  
  Control:
  Nothing very innovative, but if it's not broken why fix it?
  
  Graphics:
  Very nice when set at high. Characters animate exceptionaly, effects are ok, physics 
 look real when present. Still can see pixels if you get really close to walls, but wait till you 
 see the view from within a helicopter!
  
  Presentation - Story:
  Avoids most cliches and feels like a real story, though it won't blow you away. It does enough 
 to make you feel a part of it. A bit too tech-badass-google earth style loading screens (though 
 they look nice) .
  
  Notice: I didn't give it a solid 10 mostly because of the generic sounds of the grenade (it sounds 
 like bouncing to concrete even when you're in a forest) and the sound of your player getting hit. 
 But still, best FPS game ever for me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: booboo_lala
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 18, 2007 12:29 pm PT
Review:  in these days there are several games are coming or come before like Crysis and Unreal tournament 
 3 and also gears of war for pc. all the games released have some useless things like gears of war 
 that has a lot of bug and crysis that cant run smoothly in a normal and high computer that u must 
 have super computer to enjoy a lot................ but this game is almost GODLIKE and cant be forgotten 
 for the years later.............. there are several reason that make this game wonderfull and God 
 here it is from my idea
  
  1. excelent Graphic
  2. Godlike Game Play
  3. feel real game in the world
  4. normal computer like me can run it smoothly with nothing to 
 bother me
  5. not a port game that way of garbage to a pc game like gears of war that i put my money in the 
 toilet for buying it
  6. Highly addictive and cant miss even one second of a game using cheats and others
  7. not boring 
 and very special
  
  thx for all of u read and listen to my words 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Deschain
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 18, 2007 12:25 pm PT
Review:  If you following gaming news at all, you have heard someone rave about Call of Duty 4. There's 
 good reason for that. I've not been a COD fan, having played part of the first game in the series 
 but never finishing it. The game's jumping from character to character was not appealing, and the 
 WWII shooter sub-genre was already become bloated.
  
  But COD4 has none of these issues. Subtitled "Modern Warfare" it leaves the confines of WWII and 
 consequently gets a substantial upgrade in weapons. Add to this that while the story jumps between 
 two characters, the link between the missions is clearly explained.
  
  Then realize that this is perhaps the best looking game on the market when a number of games are 
 taking leaps in graphical fidelity. The game just looks incredible.
  
  All of that is good, but would not have worked if the gameplay and story were not equal to the 
 other points. They are. Let's admit up front that the game is short, even by typical FPS standards. 
 But most FPS players will replay the game a few times. Also, even with the shortness of the story, 
 it is one of the best written stories I've seen in FPS gaming. I think that additional gameplay 
 time would have diluted the impact of what was occurring. 
  
  From a game-play standpoint, there are typically many weapons choices. There are multiple paths 
 to objectives. In some stealth sequences, blowing your cover means fighting your way out, not an 
 automatic restart. COD4 is one of the best games of the season. And this season, that says a lot. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DiscGuru101
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 18, 2007 11:36 am PT
Review:  I am not a huge FPS fan, but I'm a sucker for cutting edge graphics and game play. COD4 delivers 
 both.
  
  I savored my way through the game, but it ended up taking around 5-hours to beat all the same. 
 The depth of field I love. The music score and sound effects are fantastic. The pacing is superb. 
 It builds and builds up to an ending that is explosive with action and tension. 
  
  Near the end, I found myself completely immersed in the atmosphere. I actually felt worried about 
 what would happen to the world if I failed for a split second. -Not a common emotion I feel playing 
 a computer game. The situation load scenes and the war is hell quotes dramatically add to the realism. 
 
  
  If I had to make gripes, yes, number one would be that the game is too short. 10-hours would have 
 been perfect. My other gripe would be I wish they took a lesson from Gear of War as far as using 
 "sticky" cover.
  
  Bottom line: A must have for anyone with a new or decent PC.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Chickity_China
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 18, 2007 11:18 am PT
Review:  Call of Duty 4 is a fun game. Sure, pumping enemies full of bullets is fun, but after 3 Call of 
 Dutys, you'd think Infinity Ward and Activision would decide to bring more to the table. There 
 is absolutely nothing new about this newest addition besides the setting.
  
  The gameplay is still exactly the same, which may not be a bad thing, but I was hoping for some 
 new twist to the tried and true formula. Run around, follow your squaddies, complete objectives, 
 kill bad guys. Same old, same old.
  
  Other things I didn't like about this game was the fact that you have absolutely no control over 
 your team mates. Sometimes, the follow you, sometimes they dont. On top of that, they're pretty 
 stupid. Sure they throw flash bangs before storming a room but all of that is scripted, not actual 
 AI at work. Luckily, the enemy AI is quite retarded too, but they sure do love to toss those grenades, 
 which is about the only thing they're good at. Seasoned FPS players will have no trouble breezing 
 through the game on the highest difficulty setting.
  
  Another gripe I have is the overly short missions and overall campaign. It seems like shooters 
 are getting shorter and shorter nowadays. An average mission on Hardened and Veteran difficulties 
 will not last more than twenty minutes, and the whole game can be beaten in about eight hours.
 
  
  Still, with all of its shortcomings, Call of Duty 4: Modern Warfare still manages to be an exiting 
 shooter with its moments. Being ambushed in a large TV recording room, while not fun in real life, 
 is terribly thrilling in the game. CoD4 almost manages to be as hectic as a real war. Graphics 
 are quite good if you have a recent graphics card, and the sound of battle is fantastic. If it 
 introduced some new gameplay features, longer missions, and better AI, then Call of Duty 4 would 
 be an excellent addition to a PC gamer's collection. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: John_Kelly
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 18, 2007 6:40 am PT
Review:  This is one of the best games I've played in a long time. The graphics are stunning. However, my 
 machine struggled at times. I only have a 3.6 GHz, but my card is the N'Vidia 8800. So, I was able 
 to run it ok. I plan to increase my RAM and try it again.
  
  The story line was engrossing and the weapons seemed authentic. I would have enjoyed being able 
 to switch a selector to single shot on some of the assault guns. Those guys are double tapping 
 not rocking on full auto. But that aside, there are not many things about which to complain.
  
  The CoD series has long been a favorite of mine. As for multi-player, the coding is such that 
 it always works. I enjoy LAN parties and although most of my friends will have to update their 
 machines to play it, I believe they will be glad they did.
  
  The skinny is this: Call of Duty 4 is one of the best games in many years. I am looking forward 
 to Brothers in Arms, and I don't think I can run Crysis. So, this is about it for my machine. But 
 what a way to go out. Bravo! John 
::::::

::::::
UserName: iujona
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 18, 2007 3:44 am PT
Review:  Call of Duty 4 is excellent. I run it on a AMX x2 4600 and 7950 GTX graphics with 1900X1200 resolution 
 and frame rate is good. Difficulty is just right and multiplayer is good. The only glitch I discovered 
 is in War Room mission during the countdown when it didnt save checkpoints. I cheated using the 
 tilda key and surpisingly got a much better frame rate... with all settings maxed out. Gameplay 
 is superb - with good physics... u can shoot thru walls to kill your enemies.
  
  Dont waste time reading this... just go buy it and play it. Well done Infinity Ward. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 7james
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 18, 2007 2:55 am PT
Review:  A well told story is worth its weight in gold and this one is heavy . You want tension with your 
 sniper scope Mr. McTavish ? 
  Cod4 is about a world with nuclear bombs and one criminal boss
  from Russia with the means to 
 keep us in world crisis. (SPOILER) Too bad he survives until the end of the game. 
  From the the opening story I was grip, while holding on to that helicopter as the ship slipped 
 away and sank. That great intro was the hook to this story. 
  From there the story skips to the life of one Marine Jackson . Interwoven stories make for great 
 results but here they were only related by military actions so not much a direct and close relation 
 . The stories bounce back and forth and I never lost interest due to the quick pace of the story. 
 The dialogue was perfect. what's a muppet like you doing 'ERE!
  Everything moves along if you watch the compass and keep moving . I love swapping weapons and throwing 
 grenades. 
  The graphics were great and smooth on my 8800 GTS .
  I 'll be looking out for an expansion to this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jaybbq
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 18, 2007 3:10 am PT
Review:  Before to start my review I must to say that I'm not a multi-player fan. I like video games but 
 I want to be free when I play. I mean, I want to be able to control my time of play like to pause 
 the game or save when I have other things to do. Multiplayer gaming doesn't allowed that. You have 
 to play constantly if you don't want to loose your rank or cause the defeat of your team.
  
  So the fact that the single player campaign of cod4 is so short is a shame for me because its 
 so great! This game is so fun to play but so short! You just want more and more.
  
  The first good thing is the relatively low minimum spec. I have an old PC:
  
  amd 2800+ processor
 
  1.5 gig ram
  NVIDIA 7800 Gs agp video card 
  
  But the game run very well with some low and medium graphics settings, and still look very good 
 if I compare to the demo of Crysis at low setting (this demo looks like a 3 years old game with 
 these settings) . Congratulation to the Infinity Ward programming team... you made a very good job!! 
 Like Cod2, smoke and explosions looks real and the guns shooting animations are awesome.
  
  Sound are so great too, you really feel like you shoot with real guns and all of them have their 
 own realistic bang sounds (I will never forget the metallic click sound of the silenced machine 
 gun) . The voice acting is very good too. The smooth distortion in the radio communications make 
 you feel like you are in a real modern warfare.
  
  But beyond all that technic stuff, the best thing about that game is the gameplay. Some people 
 don't like the fact that cod is no more a WWII fps but for me its an update. The same very intense 
 gunplay then cod2 (and probably cod3 but for some reasons they never released it on PC) but with 
 modern weapons and tactics. Its like a mix between WWII fps and rainbow six... TOO HOT!!!!
  
  Ok, I admit it, the game have some flaws. Like I said, people who don't like multi-player fps 
 should not buy this game because its too short, and there are many issues like any other fps: AI 
 detect you too easily, reloading times will make you killed for 90% of your death and more than 
 all your squad mates are always in your legs when you want to take cover from enemies' shooting 
 or grenades threat. But these issues are in every good fps, so we can deal with that.
  
  I hope we will see an expansion pack soon. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Darkfield
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 17, 2007 10:20 pm PT
Review:  Call of Duty, the series first debut back in 2003 was a huge day for Infinity Ward as they made 
 their name into history of the industry and created a shooter game for the first time that put 
 you in the different setting and real-like field of battle. With Call of Duty for the first time 
 in my life I played a game set in WWII era and complained about nothing, then Call of Duty 2 came 
 out in 2005 which it was also a big day in history of Shooter game based on WWII. The series lived 
 up to its name and the creators of the game once again proved that they are one of the bests in 
 this industry. 
  
  Call of Duty 4: Modern Warfare is one of the best games that gamers like me who have passion for 
 gaming are proud of playing and actually it was such an honor for me as a person who lived in an 
 era that gaming started with good ol' Atari and experienced a lot of changes and advancements. 
 
  
  You almost wont believe that this game based on Quake III Engine (id Tech 3) and had so much improvements 
 such as HDR, Ragdoll Physics and many other features. Actually all of Call of Duty games based 
 on this engine. 
  
  The Graphics are improved a lot since CoD2 and yet the game runs smoothly on your PC regardless 
 of the aspects (of course based on minimum system requirements) . 
  
  The intense feeling of battle is one thing that made Infinity Ward's games so different and famous 
 still lives up to its name and bring such an entertaining experience as you fighting your way anxiously 
 through each mission and yet the excitement bar in your brains HUD will never drop. Even though 
 single player campaign is extremely short and I have a feeling some parts of it has been cut off 
 from the game, first because US Marines missions are very shorter and littler in number comparing 
 to UK SAS, and you don't wanna mess with angry radical extremists, which have quite experience 
 blowing up themselves and surroundings along with them. Well at least it can be accurate at some 
 points. *lol*
  
  Sound effects are very cool even a poor guy like me who still stuck with his old stereo speakers 
 can enjoy the game with the sound effects and never get bored with it.
  
  Now the multiplayer part. EXTREMELY COMPETITIVE, massive fun and awe-inspiring enjoyment. Once 
 you get connected it would be hard to leave the field of battle less than 2 hours more. For more 
 than a decade Counter-Strike is known as The Worlds No.1 Online Action Shooter game. I believe 
 no more. First off I'm a quite good CS player at least in my country, second CoD4 has all the potentials 
 and needs no credits from me.
  
  Online modes divided in 5 different mods and a Free for all mod. Search and Destroy, Domination, 
 Sabotage, Team Deathmatch and Headquarters. First you start as a private and then advancing through 
 ranks as soon as gaining experience and also by completing challenges you can unlock weapons, modifications 
 and patterns. 
  
  Hardcore mod also can be enabled through server options which makes it double the fun as you'll 
 have no HUD or any indicators.
  
  Go buy this game it definitely worth every dollars you worked so hard to earn. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: endtype
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 17, 2007 6:59 pm PT
Review:  On the Single player of Call of Duty 4. It's short, but not as short as GS made it to be. I'm gonna 
 beat it on friday or something (hopefully) because I was playing a lot of MP last weekend too. 
 The SP is short but not too short. It was REALLY good though. Almost like a movie. I rather have 
 an epic sp like that than a long one that is repetitive and not as amazing. When I says it's like 
 a movie... it's like a movie. It's very epic like one. The music and action moments makes it feel 
 like a blockbuster Action movie. 
  
  Most of the time playing will be spent on the multiplayer. You can level up to unlock new guns 
 and get a certain amount of kill and head shots with a gun to get a laser scope and new skins for 
 the gun. There are also achievements that give you XP. Your level won't really have an effect. 
 And don't worry about not starting with all the weapons in MP. You can pick up other ppls guns. 
 And the cool thing is that it has their settings on it. Like say someone have a scope on their 
 M4 carbine and a desert skin for it. When you pick it up it will have that and the ammunition left 
 in it. 
  
  Back to the sp. The single player is fun because every level is different and exposes a different 
 aspect of the game. It's kinda like every mission is a different version of the game. Anyways it's 
 a bunch of fun, sp and mp. And once you beat the sp there is an ARCADE mode. Which is like an arcade 
 where you get points for special kills with knives and head shots and stuff. OH also You LEARN 
 something from the SP...
  
  America loses soldiers because they send in more soldiers than terrorists... if only they sent in 
 2-4 guys like the British guys they would do much better lol. But anyways SP is Fun (kinda a medium 
 short) and the mp is HOURS of fun.
  
  now time to get specific:
  
  The last couple of missions are kinda draw influences from old school games. The last scene is 
 fun. The Old school missions are kinda lame like when you have to shoot enemies when they pop up 
 out of cover... that's boring. Unless you have a sniper.
  
  now onto the MP rank system... it's awesome. I love the rewards and the maps are just so much fun. 
 
  
  In the end this is one of the best Multi player experiences you can get on a PC (besides Battlefield) . 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Flakor
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 17, 2007 6:42 pm PT
Review:  *Note: Spoilers are included in this Review
  
  Alright, so as all of you know the Call of Duty series has been up to this point a World War II 
 themed series. When Call of Duty 2 was put out on the shelves Infinity Ward had a bunch of ideas 
 on how to improve the formula, the only issue is that due to Historical Information they couldn't 
 do this. So, Infinity Ward decided to place this story in Modern Day and with more empesis on Story.
 
  
  What you get in this package is one of the most intense games ever made from beginning to end the 
 action is non-stop. 
  
  This story follows two Soiders, "Soap" MacTavish of the British Special Air Service (S. A. S) and 
 Sgt. Paul Jackson of the United States Marine Corp. (U. S. M. C) First Force Recon, with cameos here 
 and there. Its all about a coup made in the Middle-East being funded by a Russian who has dreams 
 of destroying the West. The Prologue tells about Soap's first day, his first mission, and a level 
 from the Point of View of the President of the country that is having the Coup. It is revealed 
 that it wasn't until Russian Help that Al Alsad was able to take over. The President is executed 
 accourdingly. 
  
  This is when US Troops start to begin their invasion, while in Russia, Lt. Price, with Gaz and 
 Soap meet up with Russian Loyalist who are fighting the Ultranationalist forces that want the return 
 of the Soviet Union. You and your buddies manage to find what they are looking for, a missing informant. 
 
  
  Meanwhile, the US troops make their move and begin the invasion, The 1st Force Recon begin their 
 hunt for Al-Alsad and later push towards the Capital City meeting plenty of enemy forces on the 
 way. 
  
  Earlier in the day, the chopper that Soap and his squad with Nikolai is in is shot down and they 
 made their way across the country side and is soon given support by a AC-130 Plane who's gunner 
 really pounds the enemy ground forces. 
  
  The USMC continue their advance on the Capital City and with the First Force Recon is War Pig, 
 an Abrams Tank. They run through the city streets and blast their way through enemy forces and 
 are picked up... the Assault on the Enemy Capital is ready to go. The forces make their move with 
 Jets bombing fortified enemy positions. The Choppers come in and Jackson is control of a mounted 
 Grenade launcher and helps take down enemy forces. The First Force Recon then helps out a squad 
 under heavy fire and then re-mount and head for the Palace. It is discovered that in the Palace 
 is a Nuke that is primed for fire, the Marines are ordered to be pulled out of the blast radius 
 as a bomb squad attempts to dis-arm it. Then, the Cobra that is assisting the Recon's Chopper is 
 taken out and it is discovered that the pilot is still alive. After Jackson Rescues her, they take 
 off and head out when suddenly... an explosion... a Nuclear Explosion. 
  
  Transport and Combat Choppers are thrown through the air all crash land. New Reports are unsure 
 to what has happened save that a Huge Explosion has consumed the entire capital city and with it 
 a major chunk of the Marine forces... while in the destroyed city a single being is still alive... Paul 
 Jackson stands up and limps out the destroyed Transport Helicopter and walks away from the dead 
 bodies of his friends, he walks up the road a little bit but then collapses due to his injuries 
 and of the surrounding raditation. Al-Alsad had escaped to his hideout in Azerbaijan.
  
  The S. A. S immediately assault the fortress and find Al-Alsad in a barn on the top of the hill, 
 Captain Price begins interrogation of him when his phone rings and Price hears a name that brings 
 back memories... Zakhaev.
  
  The game then goes into a flashback moment from 15 years earlier when Price was a Lt. under Captain. 
 McMillan. He and McMillan were given the orders to make an assassination of Zakhaev. They snuck 
 their way into a ruined city that is now surrounded by radiation that is being used to create Nukes. 
 Zakhaev is trying to get some of these... McMillan and Price sit on top of a Hotel Building and 
 watch the transaction take place. Price, using a .50 Cal High-Powered Sniper Rifle is forced to 
 watch until the wind dies down, he takes the shot and blows Zakhaev's arm off. The Two are forced 
 to run through the city, when a chopper is shot down by Price it crashed and damages McMillian's 
 Spine, Price is forced to carry him to the LZ. The Two then take defensive positions at the LZ 
 and snipe out incoming enemies. The Two Make it out alive. 
  
  The Story then returns to the present day, Ultranationalist Forces start an attack on the fortress 
 the S. A. S are at. As Soap uses a variety of ways to stall the enemy including a crashed Choppers 
 Chaingun and detonators, they fall back to the Barn where it is discovered that their ride can't 
 land at the farm... ironically, they have to be picked up at the bottom of the hill. Soap charges 
 forward and battles his way down the hill and is picked up by Marines who are lead by SSgt. Griggs. 
 
  
  Thus begins the Joint Operation of shutting down Zakhaev and his Ultranationalist forces. The first 
 target is his son, who is in Command of the Ultranationalist forces in the area. Soap and Griggs 
 chases him down to the top of a Apartment building, where he kills himself. 
  
  Price knows that Zakhaev will now begin his final strike against the US and the Joint Operation 
 heads for a Missile Silo Zakhaev and his men have taken control of and are holding their position. 
 They move in, with Griggs landing off course and is rescued by Soap, they then move in and take 
 out the electricity of the entire facility so other forces can move through electric fences. As 
 they approach the silo, two missles are fired. Satellite scans tell that these two missiles are 
 packed with 12 Nukes, each one aimed for a city on the East Coast. 
  
  The Joint Operations forces push into the heart of the Silo and into the console room where they 
 find the deactivation codes and stop from 41 Million people from being killed. As they pull out, 
 their trucks are followed by Zakheav's forces until a Hind takes out a bridge. The Joint Squad 
 consisting of Captain Price, SSgt. Griggs, Gaz, and Soap hold the line and call for help from Loyalist 
 Troops nearby. Suddenly, the Hind from earlier fires a rocket and stuns the squad. Griggs grabs 
 Soap and drags him away from a burning car. Griggs is then shot and killed. Through the dusk, Soap 
 sees Zakheav himself with two guards walking over and shooting injured men, including Gaz who Zakheav 
 executes himself. As Zakhaev is about to kill Soap, the Hind hovering overhead is shot down and 
 they are all distracted. Soap looks over the Captain Price who slides his M9 Pistol over to Soap. 
 Soap shoots Zakheav and his turns to look at him, Soap then kills the two guards and drops the 
 pistol. Loyalist Forces arrive and help Soap and another performs CPR on Price which appears to 
 not be working... Soap is then lifted up into a helicopter....
  
  This Story is probably one of the best ever made for a war game, with twists and turns every where, 
 yet still seems like it could happen. The most reveloutionary part of it is the death of Jackson, 
 never has the main protaganist in a Call of Duty game gets killed. In the end (like Jeff said) 
 it would seem like the world is worse after the event than before, it seems like it would take 
 a while for the world to recover from these events. This is what makes it so fantastic, it makes 
 you have an idea of what is at stake and makes you think of how the world could recover from this. 
 
  
  Before one of the levels, the loading menu movie shows just how much damage 12 nukes will do the 
 East Coast. It calculates that approx. 41 Million People will be killed, now this may be a video 
 game but I really felt that I had the whole world on my shoulders. I really hope to experience 
 a story like that again in a video game. 
  
  The Gameplay remains almost the same, except that tactics are changed dramatically. For one, automatic 
 weapons and put in and you really need to think about how your going to use your weapons. WIth 
 weapons, there seems to be a rediculous amounts thanks to the Ultranationalist forces that seem 
 to carry every thing from AK-47's to Mini-Uzis to P90's and British Weapons. This fields are variety 
 for the player to choose from.
  
  One major thing is the Physics Engine. In CoD2 when a German would be killed by a Grenade, they 
 would do a flip or just fall down. In CoD4 a Ragdoll effect is put it, men are sent flying through 
 the air which can be highly amusing. Also there is Ballistic Physics as well, bullets will travel 
 through some material like wood and sheet metal, allowing you to take out hiding enemies. Since 
 most of the game takes place in Urban Enviroments, Infinity Ward has included a lot of cars for 
 you to use as cover... heres the kicker... they can explode making you decide on whats the better 
 position. 
  
  Melee attacks are awesome this round, with the inclusion of the knife attack, your character will 
 whip out a knife and stab the MF your attacking. Also, your enemy will deploy the one fear of all 
 humans.... the German Shepard. These dogs will literally jump on you and eat off your head. The 
 bonus of this is that you get to stab the dog with the knife. 
  
  While the game is pretty straight forward, there are the beaten paths you can take like flanking 
 the enemy but the issue is that your troops will move with you and thus the enemy will move over 
 as well. 
  
  Overall, the game is brilliant and is definately worth the look and the buy. 
  
  I am really 
 excited to see what there is to come with Infinity Ward and hopefully its a continuation of Soap's 
 story. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Fahdi
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 17, 2007 6:16 pm PT
Review:  wow... this game is a must buy for all you constant action cinematic, blow-em-up lovers!!!! WOW its 
 amazing !!! wow... this game is a must buy for all you constant action cinematic, blow-em-up lovers!!!! 
 WOW its amazing !!! wow... this game is a must buy for all you constant action cinematic, blow-em-up 
 lovers!!!! WOW its amazing !!! wow... this game is a must buy for all you constant action cinematic, blow-em-up 
 lovers!!!! WOW its amazing !!! wow... this game is a must buy for all you constant action cinematic, blow-em-up 
 lovers!!!! WOW its amazing !!! wow... this game is a must buy for all you constant action cinematic, blow-em-up 
 lovers!!!! WOW its amazing !!! wow... this game is a must buy for all you constant action cinematic, blow-em-up 
 lovers!!!! WOW its amazing !!! wow... this game is a must buy for all you constant action cinematic, blow-em-up 
 lovers!!!! WOW its amazing !!! wow... this game is a must buy for all you constant action cinematic, blow-em-up 
 lovers!!!! WOW its amazing !!! wow... this game is a must buy for all you constant action cinematic, blow-em-up 
 lovers!!!! WOW its amazing !!! wow... this game is a must buy for all you constant action cinematic, blow-em-up 
 lovers!!!! WOW its amazing !!! wow... this game is a must buy for all you constant action cinematic, blow-em-up 
 lovers!!!! WOW its amazing !!! wow... this game is a must buy for all you constant action cinematic, blow-em-up 
 lovers!!!! WOW its amazing !!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: with_teeth26
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 17, 2007 2:12 pm PT
Review:  I have been a cod fan from the start, and needless to say, i was pumped for COD4. i bought it as 
 soon as i could, and i have never been happier with a purchase. the singleplayer is a bit on the 
 short side, but it is probably the best singleplayer campaign i have played, ever. the plot, the 
 combat, the characterization, it all comes together to make on spectacular campaign. first, let 
 me say that infinity ward has done a incredible job on optimization. on my p42.8ghz, 1.5g ram, 
 and 8600gt, i could run it on max except for dynamic lights at medium and never get below 35fps. 
 and it looks great as well, especially the character models and gun models. i am not a big multiplayer 
 guy, but the mp for cod4 is terrific. you level up, and with the level ups you can create custum 
 classes, complete challenges, and unlock guns, upgrades for the guns, and all sorts of great perks. 
 there is lots of longevity in this games multiplayer. so the great mp, along with the superb single 
 player, which buy the way also has an arcade mode, and different difficulty settings, which make 
 for fun multiple play throuhgs, come together to make my all time favorit shooter. period. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kvaglund
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 18, 2009 5:20 pm PT
Review:  COD4 could have been so much more than it is. One can wonder why they changed the storytelling 
 which was great in COD One and Two
  
  First of all: I SURVIVED A NUKE BLAST - BORING (did I hear Homer Simpson)
  
  Second: Why all 
 this running around the globe, why not explore the middle east and then do an expansion pack exploring 
 Chernobyl. 
  
  In both places the feel is extraordinary present. The Middle east is hot and hostel and Chernobyl 
 is cold and empty to such a degree that is gets to you - but no - one second here next second out 
 of there and before you really really get the feeling BAMM BAMM BAMM the tyrant is dead - what 
 a bucket of ice cold Chernobyl water in your face . 
  
  Third: The sniper map could have been the topic of a hole game. 
  
  Fourth: No driving armored 
 cars, tanks, choppers - nothing
  
  Last: One good thing - the German shepherds - they really freaks me out.
  Spec: It is thumbs 
 up that you can play it with ease on a AMD 4000+ / ATI X1650 Pro / 1440x900 LCD only missing out 
 the depth of field setting 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Iqbal_Johar
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 17, 2007 11:40 am PT
Review:  I have Complete more than 50% of the game and I feel that the detail of the Landscape, Weapons, 
 Surroundings, AI and all are Outstanding. 
  
  The best one is when 
  
  I have Played 
  COD 1 (addon too) , 
  COD 2, 
  MOHAA (addons) , 
  MOHPA, 
  MOH Airborne 
 
  
  but CALL OF DUTY : Modern Warfare isthe Best of the Best. The Widescreen option is good as 
 more of the Game Screen is available. 
  
  The best part of this game I liked most is the Game is exactly like the Videos Shown, Usually the 
 Videos are outstanding and the game is not upto the mark. 
  
  Straight 10/10 
  
  Iqbal. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lorddessan91
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 2, 2008 9:04 am PT
Review:  That game is awesome... just like its predecessor. CoD is one of my favorite game series and that 
 game is a hit... There's a lot of action and a had fun during my play... The Chernobyl levels are 
 the best (I'm also a big fan of S. T. A.. L. K. E. R) . I pray for another "Call of Duty" for PC.... I love 
 it and that's and example of a good game, a real game... I didn't see a glitch in the whole game 
 and that's just great for a game with so good graphics. Actually the explosions, the gun-fire, just 
 everything was very realistic and I enjoyed a lot playing CoD 4... But there's something very weird 
 about the game, you see... the game is only 5 hours long, but when you finish it once, there's not 
 that feeling that something was missing. The campaign wasn't boring at all, not even for a minute. Actually 
 the guns feel very, very realistic-their firing, reloading... just everything. And the funny thing 
 is-the plot is just great, I can't believe it, it's not like Gears of War (There is so much action, that 
 you forget about the story) . You play as a guy called "Soap"McTavish and a guy called Paul Jackson. With 
 "Soap" the missions are very calm, very slow (but good) , and with Paul they are very noisie and fulled 
 with action. The only "really-stealth-level" is the one in Chernobyl, where you play with sniper-riffle 
 in the beginning and then you turn to AK-47. The sound effects are also great. When you look in the 
 game (even the first level) , you see the professionalism of you team and that fills just everything. It 
 seems everything is just right there and for 5 hours you can't feel bored... a promise 
::::::

::::::
UserName: meandmoves
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 17, 2007 6:02 am PT
Review:  My biggest complaint is that the only way to defeat the enemy is to keep moving forward. Don't 
 bother with the sniper rifle, another guy will just take his place. Enemies continuosly respawn 
 unless you keep pushing forward. So the use your environment for protection, kill the enemy then 
 move forward tactic won't work here. The only way to truely get through a level is to keep going. 
 It feels like almost everyone in this game has a garnade and they are throwing them all at you. 
 You will die alot, and I think the developers know this because it has tons of checkpoints, good 
 thing because I would of got fed up along time ago. It's easy to get blinded by the amazing graphics 
 , which is the reason my score remains high. But I thought once you take away the CG of transformers 
 you have a terrible movie. I had so much fun in Call of duty 3 and the second half of Cod 2 that 
 I do feel a little let down on this one. But ifplaying a game where every level feels like your 
 storming the beaches of Normandy, trying to survive rain storms of bullets, running from granades 
 falling like hail stones at your feet., and constantly watching your enemies being replaced by 
 another just after you kill them exciting then this game is for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LoveableJoe
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 17, 2007 1:41 am PT
Review:  This year has seen some innovative shooters and FPS's like Halo, Medal of Hounor Airborne, Enemy 
 Territories, etc. But this is possibly the best of all of them. To be fair Halo was never all it 
 was cracked up to be, and Enemy Territories though fun, not a classic, but this game is different...
 
  
  I dont care what other people say about it's short Single Player, I just started on hardened and 
 it lasted me a week playing about 2 hours a day. I have it for the computer and i think that its 
 excellent for it, but if your pc isn't capable of having it then just use a games console. 
  
  I feel its an intense single player and an excellent multiplayer. A few suggestions, dont run 
 around too much in it, its a strategic game, play on hardened or higher regular and easy would 
 make it too short a game and not challenging, get ready to spend hours on this game and possibly 
 go anorexic as you wont want to move from your screen. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nicklech16
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 17, 2007 1:25 am PT
Review:  Call od Duty 4 is the first game I've played through two times in a row - and that was not because 
 it's only in this case as long as other FPS. The series has always been popular for the incredibly 
 intense atmosphere it delivers. And although the fourth part breaks new ground with its modern 
 scenario the way it sucks you into the game is still remarkable.
  
  What's also notable is the way the game changes between two different kinds of gaming. The U. S.-missions 
 really give you the feeling of being part of a huge war and an immense army trying to end it whereas 
 the British SAS-missions make you feel like you're out there alone only accomplished by your four 
 team members. This variety of game play also expresses through the graphics which are constantly 
 great and very sharp especially when it comes to the characters. On top of that the sound of Call 
 of Duty 4 is simply outstanding and is a huge reason for the game being so immersive.
  
  Moreover each single mission has a very unique dynamic and pacing due to permanently changing objectives 
 and the way you rush through the maps back-to-back with your team-members. This has the effect 
 that some missions are truly the best of those kind I've ever played. The sneaking mission in Prypijat 
 for example teems with absolutely great and atmospheric moments and also shows best how fantastically 
 the characters in this game are animated.
  
  All in all Call of Duty 4 is a short but truly amazing experience. Although it doesn't reinvent 
 the wheel the game is full of breathtaking passages and stunning moments and worth a look for every 
 fan of FPS. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jevulen
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 16, 2007 11:13 pm PT
Review:  Call of Duty 4: Modern Warfare is an excellent display of experience in the genre, if a bit stale 
 for my usual taste, it does deliver great scenariobased action. And when gameplay is this good, 
 I can live with the cutback in freedom.
  
  In CoD4 you play two different characters, one SAS-soldier and one US-soldier, being in different 
 places but involved in the same global crisis. The action is well paced and after a short briefing 
 / tutorial you are thrown on a boat filled with badguys, backed up by your trusted gun and our 
 fellow soldiers. (Who at the start of the game saved my behind more than once I might add)
  
  The friendlies are never in the way and it's intriguing to watch them take up positions before 
 a breach or in a firefight. The action, as I said, is rather scripted and the locations are often 
 filled with obstacles to take cover behind. It's basically just duck and gun from behind cover 
 before you advance to the next critical location. Might not seem like alot of fun when reading, 
 but it is.
  
  You're able to carry two weapons at a time, and you're able to replace them with whatever weapons 
 you happen to find lying around or dropped next to a bad guy or fallen friend. Firing through walls 
 is a useful concept and adds a hint of realism and some extra paranoia when taking cover from enemy 
 fire. Some obstacles are of course able to withstand the barrage of bullets though. The game shuffles 
 some challenging situations with easier ones, but never impossible, making it flow forward at a 
 quite steady pace. It takes a break in the midle of it for a few special missions, one of them 
 I found alot of fun, won't say what it was, but it wasn't like the rest of the game.
  
  Graphicwise it's a beauty, and sound is also very good. The whole story is also quite well written, 
 even if it's rather short. Five or six hours of gameplay, maybe a bit less or more depending on 
 how often you die. The lenght of the singleplayercampaign is actually the only con I find for this 
 game, but if you purchase this game you should really spend hours and hours on the multiplayer, 
 which I assume is alot of fun. (have yet to try it)
  
  In conclusion: Great game, best FPS I've played this year. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LouieV13
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 16, 2007 10:20 pm PT
Review:  The Call of Duty series has always been set in World War II untill now. Call of Duty 4: Modern 
 Warfare is set in modern times where the middle east and Russia have some nukes or somthing. Anyway 
 the story is boring, lets get to the shooting! The gameplay is really good, it uses the "If it 
 aint broke, why fix it?" formula pretty much using the same mechanics as the last game but adds 
 a few more things as well. The guns are just really fun to shoot and customize and just sound amazing, 
 you really feel like your shooting up real people. The sound is absolutely amazing. From the sound 
 of a bullet penetrating your foes flesh to the screams of your fellow soldiers the sound just blows 
 you away. The online multiplayer component is VERY deep. As you play online you gain experiance 
 like an RPG and level up and each level you get upgrades, whether it be a new ability, gun, camo, 
 or attachments for your guns. The graphics are some of THE best graphics i've ever seen (next to 
 crysis) . The lighting is amazing, the detail on the guns and soldiers are amazing as well, tho 
 the water effects arent the best same with the ragdolls there nothing to great. Over all this is 
 a great game with a very good online (maybe one of the best?) and an albeit short but amazing single 
 player. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thrashunreal
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 17, 2007 5:47 am PT
Review:  I had my reservations about this game... those reservations being that I don't really even care 
 for FPS. However, I played this game in-store one day and found myself unable to turn away to get 
 back to work. So, I decided to pick up and give it a chance.
  
  I was pleasantly surprised.
  
  The graphics are very impressive, first off. I don't hold graphics 
 up to a very high standard in gameplay, but I have to say that these graphics are quite good, especially 
 for an FPS. The controls also work very well, with only a very slight learning curve if you're 
 not familiar with most FPS or the Call of Duty series.
  
  The story is quite immersive in single player. It centers around several characters that you switch 
 to and from. Each characters' story in some relates to the other, and one highlight that I've found 
 is that you don't play as an American soldier the whole way through. This must be a feature of 
 the Call of Duty series, but I'm not sure. I just find that enjoyable because I usually find FPS- 
 especially war centered- to be overly nationalist. To the point where it makes it impossible to 
 bear playing the game for me. 
  
  However. There are some quips. Sometimes, the game will put you in nearly impossible situations. 
 And yet, that being said, the game is surprisingly short. The levels are quite short, the maps 
 are very small (which is bad for multiplayer- there's no way you could have a fair game with 32 
 players on those maps) and the ending was extremely disappointing.
  
  However, provided all of that, this was still an extremely gratifying experience -- especially since 
 I haven't enjoyed a FPS in literally years. I suggest picking it up, or if you're a quick one, 
 rent it and enjoy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ShadowScorp
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 16, 2007 3:34 pm PT
Review:  This is truly a marvelous game !!
  
  Everything in the game is done wonderful...
  Explosions, Weapons, Graphics, Depth, Pace, Sound, Story.
  
  ... it simply Feeels Right.
 
  
  The story mode drops you into action from the Start,
  while the Multiplayer allows for effective character development, while Experiencing the battle 
 field as.. well... a Battle Field!
  
  Instantly addictive. If you're still wondering about wether or not to purchase this game, DON'T. 
 Save yourself the hassle and just go buy it.
  
  If you're not a fan of FPS's, I'm sure Call of Duty 4 will be able to make you think twice about 
 that statement!
  
  Thumbs up!
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: DoctorCream
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 16, 2007 2:42 pm PT
Review:  Wow!
  
  This game has it all: graphics, gameplay, immersion, story, diversity, challenge, a riveting single 
 player campaign, AND an unrivalled series of multiplayer modes that clearly leave all warfare shooters 
 in the dust .
  
  From the attention to detail of the environments, to the complete immersion factor this game brings: 
 COD4 delivers the goods. 
  
  Some highlights:
  
  FIRST CLASS OPTIMIZATION - unlike alot of sloppy coders out there, this game runs as smooth on 
 a 7950 as it does on an 8800GTS. 
  
  SINGLE PLAYER CAMPAIGN - perfection in length, roughly ten to twelve hours on hardened, with the 
 ideal blend of character immersion into a precision story with just the right level of difficulty 
 to be proud of completion. This game is exactly how long it needed to be to feel complete.
  
  MULTIPLAYER MODES - a whole new level of class and sophistication with realistic weapon feels, 
 hundreds of sub-challenges that go just beyond a straight online shooter, and so many ways to derive 
 enjoyment your mouse hand is destined to go numb in the first week.
  
  GRAPHICS - all I can say is wow. They work, they are breathtaking, and again the Call of Duty series 
 sets a whole new bar for next generation.
  
  All game expectations and bias from advertising dollars aside (come on Gamespot - only a 9.0 versus 
 Halo / Crysis auto stamps of 9.5 that came pre-canned prior to game release ????) - this is easily 
 the best game you will have ever played.
  
  Another rigid testament to the fact that it takes more than just great graphics to make an excellent 
 game. Thanks Activision for an instant classic, and a remarkable paradigm in visuals versus gameplay. 
 
  
  Legendary!
  
  Right now unquestionably #1 in my gaming library of more than 500 titles. 
  
  
  - Doctor 
 Cream 
::::::

::::::
UserName: voxstellarum
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 16, 2007 1:59 pm PT
Review:  I played all Call Of Duty games except PSP version of COD. Call Of Duty and COD: United Offensive 
 were masterpieces; Call of Duty 2 was a total disappointment, CoD 3 was OK, CoD: Big Red One was 
 pretty good...
  
  My hopes for CoD 4 were not high. My last meeting with CoD on PC (COD2) was bad that's why I wasn't 
 expecting a game better than CoD2's standars. Finished CoD4 20 minutes ago and I'm totally amazed. 
 
  
  I'm not sure if I watched an action movie by Hollywood or played a video game. The story line, 
 battles, even loading screens, from bottom to top CoD 4 is an awesome game. 
  
  I can easily say that Chernobyl mission is an epic. I'm pretty sure I'm going to play that chapter 
 again and again!
  
  The only minus side of the game is that the game itself is too short. But I think we can turn this 
 minus into a plus with playing multiplayer mode! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rangel_19
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 16, 2007 11:48 am PT
Review:  This game is off the hook! I have been playing Call of Duty since it first came out on the PC! 
 I've had COD, COD: United Offensive, COD2, and then COD4: Modern Warfare! I have also tried the 
 other Call of Duty games for the consoles, but I still prefer playing it in the PC!
  
  Call of Duty 4: Modern Warfare is a must have game of your into first person shooters! It has stunning 
 and amazing graphics, best of all, it has a great multiplayer too! You can rank up your soldier 
 the more you play the game, this is a great addition to the COD gameplay! The higher your soldier 
 rank is, the more cool stuff you can do! Like call in airstrikes, bombardment, and better weapons!
 
  
  All in all, this is a great and enjoyable game, especially if you play this game online! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: b36soldier
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 16, 2007 10:23 am PT
Review:  This game is probably one of the best shooters that i have ever played! shockingly enough though, 
 going through other peoples reviews of this game i actually found sum1 that said they did not like 
 this game!!! I will agree with them in the sense that the single player is quite short, but this 
 game is all about the online experience that it provides.
  
  Even though the single player mode is quite short there is a rather good story line, a few of the 
 levels had me on the edge of my seat! One thing i must say tho is that Captain Price is a Bad ASS!! 
 :D
  Iv only played the single player on regular, its quite difficult but it can be done. Its just enough 
 to keep you from doing important things like going to work, etc...
  
  This game is definitley a must have, add it too your collection!!! join the online games!!! 
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: aaronannie68
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 16, 2007 9:59 am PT
Review:  Call Of Duty 4 is a powerful and exciting game. The realistic aspects of the game are strong and 
 very convincing.
  From the get go, you are in the middle of cutting edge tactical combat surrounded in realistic 
 battle environments.
  The computer controlled characters act as real people should act, not robotic an repetitive. You 
 get to play as a British SAS operative, or a US Marine.
  I love the intensity of the game play, its tough and gritty, yet it has its tense moments in the 
 dark using the night vision scopes.
  The attention to detail is top notch, such as the shadow and smoke effects. The AI is really good 
 in the this game because they don't just react based upon you getting past a certain point, they 
 act startled and caught off guard as in real life. 
  There is good stealth aspects to the game as well as lots of brush and vegetation to move through. 
 This game makes you think about what your best strategy should be throughout the game, whether 
 in close quarters or calling in air strikes, etc. The game obviously has similarities to the Call 
 of Duty gameplay, the damage from bullets causes the screen to flash red, as well as the grenade 
 indicator. Anyone who loves FPS games will have a lot of fun with COD4 Modern warfare.
  It is, without a doubt one of the best games to come out since Gears Of War. 
  If you got a extra 
 sixty bucks to spend, this game is a wise purchase. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ShadyJade
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 16, 2007 5:05 am PT
Review:  So i should start by adding that i've been playing FPS's for like 10 years. My favorite was till 
 now Return to Castle Wolfenstein. I'm a big fan of Call of Duty and i was surprised thinking that 
 there were no more resources to form another world war game after they wasted everything on the 
 Medal of Honor series. That wasn't so. EA surprised me with the first Call of Duty making it even 
 better than some of the MOHA series. With Call of Duty 4 i can say for real they outranked themselves. The 
 graphics in this game are amazing, the effects outstanding and the voice acting well they make 
 you feel you're really a S. A. S or a Marine serving your country. I must say it ran with some glitches 
 on my computer (a pentium 4 at 2.8Ghz with HT,2 gb of ram in dual ch, and a 7600GT overclocked) because 
 i couldn't let go of the effects and graphics. I have this disease even if a game runs at 15-20 
 fps i still sacrifice the smoothness for the graphics. The gameplay is also solid ,the atmosphere 
 created in the game is truly amazing and since the first mission you're not gonna want to shut 
 off your computer until you finish this game. The sounds and the recreation of a M4A1 with a grenade 
 launcher is near perfection and the recoil is also real. That's a big + from me cause that's one 
 of the secrets that made and has kept counter strike alive and kickin'. Level design is great and 
 no mission will ever seem too short or too long. The game itself is short and when i mean short 
 i mean short. That's the only disappointment i had in it. The story starts off with a first mission 
 given to you , to board a ship and extract a package along with S. A. S operatives. I should add that 
 you play as a US Marine and as an S. A. S member nicknamed "Soap". The story will unveil as you play 
 more and more of the game. May I add that my favorite mission was one where you and a captain are 
 sent in to assassinate a terrorist. You're both camouflaged and you weapons also and stealth is 
 you basic weapon. It's by far the best mission a FPS's has ever thrown in my face because of it's 
 reality and gameplay. You need to infiltrate to a specific floor where you have a sniping position 
 to eliminate the terrorist. For you to reach that spot you need to use stealth and you can depending 
 on your skills decide to take out some targets or simply avoid them. Making noise will get you spotted 
 and guards with dogs, yes with germanshepards will come after you. Dogs are very deadly some more 
 deadly that the enemies with guns cause they come aiming to bite your throat and if you don't use 
 your knife quickly you will die. So at the middle of our assassination mission we reached a recked 
 parc of cars. There two enemies were getting ready to dispose of a body by throwing it into a lake. The 
 sniper that was with me asked me not to open fire till he gets in position because we need to take 
 them both out at the same time. So after he said "i'm in position" I took the shot and aimed for 
 one of the two's head. At the same exact second my teammate made a headshot to the other one. It 
 was a superb feeling. I should add that the teammate is part of the AI of the computer not a friend 
 of mine. I still am delighted with those two sniping missions because they have some superb moments 
 that i'm not gonna talk about because i don't wanna ruin the game's moments and i wanna let you 
 discover them for yourselves. I've said enough and my new favorite FPS is now Call of Duty 4. I recommend 
 it as one of the best FPS to come out in years. Too bad it's too short : ( 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Wannabe
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 18, 2007 2:46 pm PT
Review:  This game is absolutely astounding. I never would have thought I would have so much fun with another 
 Call of Duty game, but Infinity Ward is once again able to put the good stuff in our hands. While 
 playing this, I didn't actually feel like I was playing a video game. I felt like I was watching 
 a movie, or an extremely thought provoking story unfold right before my eyes. The game makes you 
 think long and hard about a lot of the things that we don't hear about. 
  
  It makes you think about the men and women who day in, and day out, are out there fighting, and 
 dying so that others may live. These people never ask for thanks, or our gratitude and lord knows 
 they have to go through some hairy shit to get the job done. This game is no holds bar. It depicts 
 war, death, and carnage in its most brutal fashion. When you're raining down hell from a Spectre 
 gunship, you don't feel like you're fighting a battle, you feel like you're murdering people. It 
 captures the utter unforgiving attitude of war seemingly as perfectly as a game these days can 
 ever hope to do. It also makes you feel sorry for those whom you fight beside, or fight as. It's 
 sad. I'm glad Infinity Ward decided to do away with teeny bopper shoot'em up style, and said screw 
 it, we're going to show death, carnage, and war for what it is: Hell. 
  
  In the end, this game may seem to you to just be about shooting those enemies in front of you with 
 a variety of weapons (including a 105mm cannon from 20,000 feet) , but it does it perfectly. However, 
 it is the first Call of Duty game to pull of such a great story, convey such emotion, and make 
 you feel for those men whom you fight beside. Why? Because deep down, you know that there are men 
 out there who go above and beyond the Call of Duty to protect us and we may never know how close 
 we've come to the end of the world. 
  
  Thank you Infinity Ward, thank you for not only giving me an opportunity to play, but for also 
 paying homage to those people who do that for us. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wolfen67
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 16, 2007 4:45 am PT
Review:  I was almost put of by the reviews saying it was so short, I was thinking
  of waiting for a price drop in the new year but i'm so glad I didnt a great
  game well paced, 
 varied missions, the sniper mission was very well done.
  The qtime events can be a pain but at least you can shoot the dogs rather than fiddle trying to 
 hit a key at the right time. Graphics really stand out so much better than stalkers yet I could 
 play at the highest settings with no slowdown. A great follow up to COD2 look forward to the next 
 installment. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: halilmehmet
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 16, 2007 4:02 am PT
Review:  Got this game the day it was out and my word its been a long time sins i have played a good game. This 
 game was the nuts its just right in every way the look off the game is amazing every thing is just 
 like life like the story line is very good .The online play is even better i do not have a bad 
 word to say about this game for me this game was just so good in every way very happy with it :) . The 
 game is a must must have for any one who likes this type of game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stephrullez
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 16, 2007 12:03 am PT
Review:  All of the Call Of Duty games were awesome, but this one is the best. I have to admit, I was skeptical 
 at first when I read about it, because I played a lot of modern shooters and they didn't even came 
 close to the WW1-WW2 shooters, but Call Of Duty 4 Modern Warfare proved to be an exception. I really 
 liked cutscene where those irakians, or whatever they are, drag you all over and beat the crap 
 out of you. But I don't quite get the part when you're with the american soldier, after the nuclear 
 explosion and you're half dead, you just crawl like 20 feet and then die. Anyway on a scale from 
 1 to 10, I'd rate it 20. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kaptain_insano
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 15, 2007 5:17 pm PT
Review:  hey guys... this is by far the best game in history. the graphics, the gameplay! the list goes on! 
 i don't care what some people have said about it. don't listen! COD 4 is da bomb. the campaign 
 is a little short but the fun that u get out of it compensates for it. did i mention the multiplayer!!?!? 
 it is amazing! the unlocks go on. there are endless possibilities to choose from online. i'm a 
 COD veteran and i say COD 4 gets an easy 10. all the other modern warefare games out there never 
 get as in depth as this one does. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Drakeaew
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 15, 2007 2:31 pm PT
Review:  Well, this is one of those strange games, for example, I kind'a liked the demo of the game more 
 than the actual game. Well, I would have given it a 10 if I liked it as much as the demo, but it's 
 "only" 9.5 like this.
  Well, let's just go to the review:
  
  The graphics is really nice, and the game has quite low Hardware needs, it can run just fine on 
 GeForce 7600GS on normal settings. It has a great depth of field effect too. The "shadows on" option 
 surprisingly decreases the performance though. This is a solid "new gen" game, I can imagine anyone 
 that would actually be displeased with its "graphix".
  
  The sound is awesome, voice acting is great, and all the comments from the enemies are interesting, 
 and surprisingly well done, though sound was never the aspect that actually needed to be improved 
 in these series.
  Nonetheless, Your companions have good voices, and the background sounds are great, as well as 
 gun sounds.
  
  Gameplay, well it is Incredible. The intensity is awesome, and I found no flaws here, not in the 
 Multiplayer. The singleplayer game is not as good as Multiplayer, but still. I don't care whatever 
 the flaws are, the intensity is incredible, and makes it all up.
  
  The 40 to 100 hours notice could be a little confusing. And no, I didn't play the singleplayer 
 for that long. You can finish the game in approximately 15 to 20 hours.
  
  Well. The new topic of the game, the leaving of the WWII theme is quite refreshing I must say. 
 I love this more than the other COD games, and I found that WWII theme kind'a annoying to this 
 date. 
  So, Great job activision. Great job.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rigyabliss
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 15, 2007 12:40 pm PT
Review:  It doesn't take long to realize that the upcoming experience is going to be great when you first 
 load the game. Forgoing the typical obstacle course training for a more involved and faster paced 
 run through, Modern Warfare throws you into the gameplay in a matter of minutes. By the third mission, 
 most of the games guns have been encountered, which is only made better by the real-time freedom 
 of weapon choices in the game. 
  
  Implementing the standard hidden health screen that has become norm for next generation titles, 
 Modern Warfare is difficult at times but rewarding nonetheless. This time around, you are fighting 
 a new enemy, leaving Nazis behind is a great decision for the future of the series. Following the 
 mediocre release of Medal of Honor Airborne, Modern Warfare does an excellent job of keeping the 
 Call of Duty series on top and does it better than ever before. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LAK4
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 15, 2007 12:10 pm PT
Review:  This is the best shooter war shooter i think i have ever played in my life. First the multiplayer. 
 It is so addictive you cannot stop playing, i think i went through a 8 hour session in one sitting. 
 There is never a single quiet second playing it, nades, rockets, bullets, you name it its flying 
 at you.
  Then there is the singleplayer, and some say it is short, and yes it is, but my GOD does it make 
 up for it. The voice acting is brilliant, some of the lines are funny and it always feels like 
 the real thing. The graphics are amazing, everything is detailed and runs as smooth as a baby's 
 buttocks. The story is beautifully written, and some of the scenes literally gave me goose bumps 
 when playing them! It even got me emotional near the end.
  This is quite simply a modern masterpiece. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ramrod33
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 15, 2007 11:43 am PT
Review:  This is one sick game. The graphics and the sound have me hooked and the RPG element in MP is fantastic. 
 The side quests in the MP is a cool feature as well, to unlock certain items for certain weapons.
 
  
  The single player parts is short but good, I am sure they left room for the expansions that we 
 will shell extra money out for.
  Both sides seem balanced, the weapons are balanced as well, and there is a good variety to keep 
 things exciting.
  
  The special effects used in the game are top notch. There is quite a bit of static items that can 
 be destroyed and break down. Not everything can be though like walls....
  The perk system is a great idea, I love the last stand perk.
  
  Great great game, go play it 
 and find out! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: beanyman
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 15, 2007 6:39 am PT
Review:  Well what can I say?
  
  This game is near enough perfect. 
  
  But lets start from with the single player. 
  
  The single player campaign is way to short 
 for such a hyped up game of this calibre. The way the story progresses from training right up to 
 the final bit of the campaign though makes up for it. When playing the way you move from objective 
 to objective is very intuitive. Since near enough all the time there is a path that is easy to 
 follow to get to that objective. 
  Though like many others I was disapointed when after about seven eight hours I had reached the 
 end of the campaign . But there is plenty of replay value since even though the game isnt of "sand 
 box" construction there is more then one way to achieve an objective. 
  
  Multiplayer though makes up for the short campaign. With what seems like inumberal multiplayer 
 modes there is allways a lot of choice for people out there if they dont like for example Capture 
 the Flag. Though I have to say the multiplayer server browser is nice but the search function for 
 servers is rubbish. You can't search for a particular server that you want.
  
  Apart from those small things the whole game is immense. I could continue all day babling on but 
 I will give it a rest know. But my final words will be worth they money, Rag doll, bullet, vehicle 
 and damage physics are so good It feels all most real. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CW-4
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 15, 2007 6:15 am PT
Review:  Good game and great graphics, but looks like a Xbox port on the maps. MP plays great as long as 
 there isn't more than 12 to 16 players. More than that and it's just spawn and die. No way that 
 IW could have tested COD4 with the 32 players that they say it supports and not found that the 
 maps were too small. Still a good game, recommend that you find small servers to fully enjoy it. 
 Nothing really new in game play, if you have played MOHAA, or any of the COD games, it's just about 
 the same but with new skins and modern weapons. Really reminds me of the Revolt mods for vCOD and 
 COD/UO. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mahyar_d_zig
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 15, 2007 4:51 am PT
Review:  it was very good but the rescue of mc. millan was very very hard.
  it was very good but the rescue of mc. millan was very very hard.
  it was very good but the rescue 
 of mc. millan was very very hard.
  it was very good but the rescue of mc. millan was very very hard.
  it was very good but the rescue 
 of mc. millan was very very hard.
  it was very good but the rescue of mc. millan was very very hard.
  it was very good but the rescue 
 of mc. millan was very very hard.
  it was very good but the rescue of mc. millan was very very hard.
  it was very good but the rescue 
 of mc. millan was very very hard.
  it was very good but the rescue of mc. millan was very very hard. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: frag_1
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 15, 2007 4:01 am PT
Review:  Call Of Duty 4: Modern Warfare is one of the best action packed First Person Shooters till date. 
 The series has always been synonymous with Historic WWII Shooters but this release has definitely 
 removed that tagline off of it.
  
  This instalment of the CoD series has definitely marked dramatic change in visuals, gameplay, features 
 and length too. The game though short has packed in all that we have seen in previous instalments 
 and more!! The game features an immersive storyline which undoubtedly will keep you hung on to 
 it. Its an awesome experience from the start of the game. The tutorial too is the most different 
 I've ever seen. 
  
  We play as the members of SAS and USMC soldiers who are out to capture Zakhaev, a militant trying 
 to achieve world domination (obviously!) . We play as Sgt. Paul Johnson in the USMC and as 'Soap' 
 MacTavish in the SAS. There is also a mission in which we play as Capt. Price (Leftenant then) in 
 a flashback mission which was one of the most tough and awesome missions in this extremely well-compiled 
 game. I must say, this game has a very well established storyline to go side-by-side with all the 
 action in this marvelous instalment.
  
  What can we look forward to in the game?? Well, that questions not very hard to answer but I'm 
 doubtful that I'd be able to state every tiny detail..
  
  The game is extremely stable and has fantastic graphics which is extremely alluring. The graphics 
 is eye candy and provides high detail and distant objects are also well defined. The flow of the 
 game is best maintained due to the large arsenal of weapons that have the largest firepower that 
 you might have experienced in any game. The weapons range from Grenade launching machine guns to 
 automatic rifles and RPGs and also include Javelin missile launchers and not to mention shotguns 
 and fully automated machine guns and of course fully automatic sniper rifles too. You'll just keep 
 on asking for more.. The game also has extremely good background music to keep in pace with the 
 mood of the game.
  
  The game is very different from other prequels not only because of the modern scenario but also 
 because of the change in gameplay style where there is an obvious need of stealth. There are missions 
 in which we make the choice of how to go through with completing the objective which is quite a 
 welcome change and enlivens are experience.
  
  It is a must to play this game if you're a fan of FPS. This game has 5 Stars from my side. Solid 
 story and great graphics and gameplay make this game deservant of full marks and all the accolades 
 it can get. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: epakille
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 15, 2007 3:24 am PT
Review:  One may argue that its not something revolutionary. It isnt't. On the other hand the game is so 
 well made that's ok.
  
  SINGLEPLAYER
  A bit short, but very varying and funny. If you're not gonna play online, this game is probably 
 just a 8.0.
  
  MULTIPLAYER
  This is (unsuprisingly) the s h i t. While overwhelmed at first (you'll die and die and die) when 
 you're get familiar with it, this is maybe the best multiplayer game i've ever played. Its fast 
 and henctic at team deathmatch and much more like counter-strike in other modes. Very similar to 
 cod2 (which was also great) but with a lot of added details such as modding your weapons and chooses 
 perks that gives you bonuses.
  
  Don't miss this game if you're into shooters at all.
  Erik 
::::::

::::::
UserName: enesjusufi
Rating: 1
Date: Nov 15, 2007 1:21 am PT
Review:  Have been playing for under 11 hours so far. My only tip for you is to TRY the game first, before 
 buying it... its apples and oranges yes but this game is NOT BETTER THAN CALL OF DUTY 2..... This 
 game is just a better Graphics version. Single Player is fantastic like all COD series, but thats 
 just about it!! Single Player gets over quick in 3 hours and then what do you have left? Throw 
 the game or play Multiplayer? The Single Player got over so quick and i didnt think the gameplay 
 was better than COD2....
  
  Ok then, lets see what Multiplayer has!!
  
  
  GRAPHICS - 
  fantastic! but it wont help increase the score im gona give this game!
  
  MAPS 
 - 
  suited for a fragfest, and too small for those who like the tactical opportunities and wide open 
 spaces of a Kubra Dam or Dragon Valley in BattleField 2. The games I have played were so fast and 
 furious, I was never sure who I was shooting at, im still not 100% sure who i am shooting at... 
 you get dazed and confused that it irritates you and makes you leave the game very fast...... never 
 to come back! Because its unfair.. meleeing is to easy and to good! A shot is not accurate, it 
 can happend that you aim clearly for the legs and get a headshot.... 
  
  HITBOX - 
  Here we are, this is what i hated most....... trust me when i say that in this game your head is 
 like a BALOON!! Big and Sensitive!! Which makes it very boring, the hitbox is huge and ANY noob 
 will be able to kill you. So what do you do? You camp and get slow paced..... it doesnt work, because 
 you need to be moving to survive. So what do you do? You take a Sniper and hide somewhere to snipe... 
 then suddenly a guy just sneaks up behind you and knifes you! Because this game is not slow paced! 
 You must be moving and moving and moving and having luck and moving and having luck and Spraying 
 and Praying all the time........ Nice try COD4.... but failed...
  
  GAMES - 
  over in 10 minutes 
  
  RANKS - 
  I ranked up 6 times in 2 hours and im not even that good. 
 There doesn't seem to be the satisfaction in ranking that you find in BF2!!!! It may get harder 
 as I play more, but so far the thrill of adding a stripe is not there!! Nice try Call of Duty.... 
 but failed. 
  
  TEAM PLAY - 
  no medics, ammo packs, etc. Combined with the time limits, there seems little opportunity for real 
 teamwork and strategy. I am not a speed and action guy and i miss the tactical side, which here 
 is awful! I mean, here you are trying to create a REALISTIC GAME right????? Then why not make the 
 Obvious realism?? The obvious is that TeamPlay and Tactics should exist in reality!! And the War 
 should be slower paced!! This is not Unreal Tournament for gods sake!
  
  VEHICLES - 
  Short on that...
  
  PLAYER LADDERS - 
  apart from the in-game scores, I can't find any overall/global 
 ranking system!!
  Maybe websites, like bfstats will help them develope?
  
  
  
  
  
  :::SCORE:::
  
  Single Player = 8 / 10
  Multi Player = 1 / 10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AnarchyRising
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 14, 2007 11:00 pm PT
Review:  The title speaks for itself. I'm a long time fan of the COD series and this one takes the cake! 
 I was very happy to hear COD was coming out of the old-school, WAY overdone, WWI-II era and into 
 modern times.
  
  The graphics are absolutely beautiful. The textures on the models are unreal even on DX9 machines. 
 The motion blurring depth of field is the best I have seen, better than Jericho (the only thing 
 good about that game) .
  
  The cut scenes are keyed almost perfectly and have some of the best visual effects I have ever 
 seen in a game (the nuclear explosion; for example) , and I am a hard critic.
  
  The audio is fresh and the weapons sound as real as it gets having fired alot of weapons in my 
 time.
  
  The game play is unreal by comparison to previous COD titles. The movement of your character is 
 smooth and the slight blur when you move quickly is also a nice touch. The "mini-games" in COD4 
 are a very cool addition. When I say mini-games I mean the sections where you break off from regular 
 game play.
  
  You can give support from an awesome plane in the air using a white/black video filter to fire 
 huge and devastating weapons from the air. Another mini-game is a sniper wait-out where you must 
 kill a single guy but you must factor in wind (by looking at the flags on the cars blowing) , distance 
 and user-error zone to correctly make it one shot, one kill.
  
  There are also some other parts of the game where you assist gunning in a gunship and on vehicles.
 
  
  The only downside, which brought me down to a 9.5 was the games unbelievably shortness. 5 hours 
 tops and you will have it conquered, no matter which difficulty which was a large disappointment. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BrokenDreams13
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 14, 2007 5:38 pm PT
Review:  Storyline: 8/10 
  Gameplay: 9/10 
  Controls: 9/10 
  Graphics: 10/10 
  Sound: 10/10 
  Value: 9.5/10 
  Overall: 9.3/10
  
  
  The word on the street is that World War II is old, 
 boring, and played out in the realm of videogames, and this simple notion propelled Infinity Ward 
 onto their most ambitious project yet, Call of Duty 4: Modern Warfare. The team actually began 
 working on this title right after the release of their last game, Call of Duty 2, hence the lack 
 of Infinity Ward's logo on the cover of Call of Duty 3. So while they were away on their two year 
 hiatus a few things were worked on, and what it became is, essentially, the greatest game in the 
 Call of Duty series. The core COD elements remain the same and this isn't the most unique of first-person 
 shooters, but the execution is spot-on, and the intensity the series is known for remains. 
  
  Since this is the first venture out of the history books, and because modern is in the subtitle, 
 COD4 contains a completely original story with fictitious characters, battles, and conflicts. Just 
 like in past games of the series you'll be playing as multiple characters, one from the U. S. Marines 
 and the other from the British S. A. S. But unlike past games, these characters intertwine with each 
 other and revolve around the same battles with a common goal in mind. U. S. and British forces are 
 sent in to stop a radical terrorist known as Kahled Al-Asad on suspicion of nuclear activity. Although 
 the story isn't entirely original, the execution of said story and the way it is laid out in front 
 of you is done in a phenomenal fashion. Sometimes watching a great movie is just as good if not 
 better than making your own. And that is why this straight-forward, action-packed, in-your-face 
 type of gameplay is still just an amazing experience. The only negative there is on the single-player 
 would have to be how short it is. It should only take around five or six hours to complete, depending 
 on the difficulty setting. But the action that takes place in that short time is nothing to whine 
 about. There is even a new element of stealth here in a game known for it's white-knuckle action. 
 One mission will have you decked out in a guille suit with a silenced sniper rifle hand. Most of 
 the mission is based on your ability to stay out of the sight of your enemy. It's really an edge-of-your-seat 
 type experience that brings some new experiences to a storied franchise. 
  
  The most striking thing about this game would be its audio and visual presentation; it has always 
 been the saving grace for the series, and this just takes it to the next level. These are without 
 a doubt some of the best looking graphics seen this year. The environments are huge and luscious 
 looking, and the character models are outstanding. When you combine that with the stellar sound 
 that the series is known for, the end product is always something special, especially when you 
 equip a nice HDTV along with some fantastic surround sound; that's just magical. Just like in past 
 games the immersion is amazing and you feel like you're right out there on the battlefield fighting 
 to stop total destruction. The new smoke and lighting effects that Infinity Ward have been working 
 on are very well implemented, and it really adds a lot to the experience as a whole. There are 
 also times when the wind plays a key factor as it will blow smoke, debris, and sand all over the 
 place. This really looks nice and just helps create a life-like atmosphere. 
  
  Multiplayer has always been one of the key components in the COD series, and that is no different 
 here because this rendition is fantastic. There is some incredible depth here, with nineteen maps 
 and thirteen game types right out of the box. There is a whole new rank and class system that reminds 
 one of an RPG of sorts. You gain experience by doing things like killing or getting assists, and 
 that unlocks new weapons, attachments, challenges, and perks as well as rank you up. The challenges 
 are small tasks that you complete while playing multiplayer. Half of them go by the different weapon 
 classes, while the other half are just random tasks. Getting seventy-five kills with the assault 
 rifle would be an example of one. Completing each challenge rewards you with some experience and 
 either a new weapon or attachment. Now perks are something pretty unique in the genre, and completely 
 new to the series. Perks are exactly that, small bonuses that help strengthen your character and 
 improve the over-all excitement of the game. Some of these perks include; extra ammo, faster reload 
 times, extended sprint, and faster bullets. Your character is allowed three slots, and the perks 
 are divided into those slots according to the actual ability. For instance if you choose extra 
 ammo, the game will not let you also pick faster reloads, so that is how they plan an balancing 
 out these different sets of perks. You can customize these perks according to your play style, 
 or according to what game type you're playing. Say you're about to start a capture the flag match, 
 you would probably want to take extended sprint and endurance just to give yourself enough time 
 to get away once you take the flag. Other perks of note are Last Stand and Martyrdom. Last stand 
 gives you the ability to get one last shot at your adversary. If you just so happen to get shot 
 and go down, you still have a little bit of time to pull off a shot, one last stand if you will. 
 Martyrdom is an interesting one; it really is like anti-tea bagging technology. This one drops 
 a grenade at your feet after you die, so if your killer tries to be cocky you blow that jerk to 
 kingdom come. This perk system is a great addition to an already stellar online component, and 
 the deep experience and rank system is the best in recent memory. Although the single-player is 
 quite short, the multiplayer is good enough to warrant a purchase as long as you like this kind 
 of stuff.
  
  Simply put, Call of Duty 4: Modern Warfare is a must have for any fan of the FPS genre. It looks 
 great, plays great, and sounds even better. This is without a doubt the best game in the series, 
 no questions asked. The single-player is not quite as long as one would hope, but the action that's 
 packed into it is phenomenal. The new stealth elements are a nice addition, and you can never get 
 tired of the in-your-face action the series is known for. The multiplayer is by far the best part 
 of this package. From the immense depth to the various maps and game types, this is truly one of 
 the best online shooters of the year. Needless to say, this is a fantastic title that shouldn't 
 be missed. It doesn't revolutionize the genre, but then again it doesn't have to. What it does 
 do is give the player and exciting ride through what modern warfare is like. In the end the game 
 is just fun plain and simple, and that's all that really matters. 
  
  ~Mike Pelletier 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kielhynek
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 14, 2007 5:08 pm PT
Review:  Campaign is the best realistic shooter I've ever played. There are times that the battles get so 
 intense and real that it can be quite frightening. It also is really varied with the environments 
 and the way it incorperates different fighting such as stealth, long range shooting from a plane 
 and helicopters. The AI can be frusterating at times. The enemies are often so numerous that can't 
 seem to help but rushing straight into flying bullets. Your men keep running in front of you while 
 shooting. The length fely pretty good to me when in the hardened difficulty level. Multiplayer 
 has great progression almost constantly getting a new weapon or challenge or gametype that it really 
 gives motivation to keep leveling up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gijas
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 26, 2007 7:39 pm PT
Review:  I had mixed thought with this series going strait from the WWII theater to modern times. First 
 of all they missed the 60 years of wars that could be portrayed like the Korean Conflict, Vietnam 
 Conflict, etc. Those wars were mainly American wars so it's to be expected. However, I decided 
 to buy the game based on the reviews not hype. Here's what I think.
  
  GP: Totally awesome both single and multiplayer. In fact I liked them boh better than COD 1 or 
 2. They bring home real issues going on in the world today and do it with style. The gun play is 
 amazing and in the heat of things you can really get bogged down in fire fights etc. The weapons 
 are the typical modern day affair with some experimental stuff thrown in for good measure. You 
 can call in helli's, and even jets to help you in tight spots especially in multiplayer. There 
 is even a mission where your flying overhead blowing up targets in infared. Totally amazing stuff 
 here!
  
  Sound: Well, it's much improved gun sounds from previous versions and you don't have to install 
 any sound mods to make them sound authenic. Explosions, gun fire, rockets, and voice acting all 
 are on que.
  
  Graphics: Amazing really, not to the extreme as Crysis but closer than most games coming out now. 
 I was able to turn on lighting and shadows with only a slight hitch at times in the game. Very 
 well optimized for the PC.
  
  Replay: Excellent. Even though the single player story in short it's good and with othe rmodes 
 such as arcade mode, etc. you can play all or some of your favorite levels numerous times even 
 using different strategies. Of course the real winner here is multiplayer and with numerous maps 
 and servers to play on you really never get tired of the game or at least I don't.
  
  Overall: A wonderous addition in the COD series I recommend for anyone that is a fan or wants to 
 play this game in buying. You can't go wrong here although the price is steep, 50 dollars it is 
 well worth it especially when the price drops to around 40 dollars after the holiday and beyond. 
 Final words are get this game if your any kind of FPS or COD fan period. You won't regret it even 
 if your still partial to the WWII theme these games have represented in the past. You will forget 
 all about WWII and move on to WWIII with no problems at all! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gizmo_kicks_ass
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 14, 2007 1:47 pm PT
Review:  Sure most of the people compare this with BF2 and how similar it is to it, and some say that the 
 graphic look nothing more than a bit more beefed up CoD2 graphic, sure some say that the multiplayer 
 map is very small and hackers whould love the fact that you can shoot through the walls.
  However for all those point, I'd have to say that they are WRONG, and here are the reasons why.
 
  1) For the similarity to BF2, I won't deny it. You can create your own class, as in your own choice 
 of guns and grenades and such, but did BF2 have such things as "perks?" Did they have flexibility 
 over their own kit, like camo and silencers? Or for that matter, did BF2 even have aiming down 
 the sight for all the guns? Obviously this separates CoD4 from BF2.
  2) For the graphics, if you complain about it, you're really stupid or deprived of good graphic 
 cards. Have you taken a good look at the first mission, and its surroundings? You can actually 
 see the shadows and small light around Cpt. Price as he is smoking his cigar, you can acutally 
 see the lighting around his mouth. 
  3) Although I am big fan of CoD4 I kind of have to agree with small maps. All the maps are around 
 quarter the size of BF2 maps, with around half the capacity of number of players, but it just feels 
 right all the times. There are plenty of places you can snipe from, and being able to create and 
 model your own class and kit, it's just amazing how no game developers have thought of that (Of 
 course other than BF2) .
  4) And for being able to shoot through the walls, get over it, the game is suppose to be close 
 to being realistic, and have you ever seen a gun that cannot shoot through the walls? What kind 
 of world do you think that is? Some kind of dream world? Stop being reminascing about the old days. 
 Get on with the program, all the FPS nowadays are trying to be realistic so if you want games that 
 can't shoot through walls and drywall keep playing Doom (No offense to the Doom fanatics)
  5) One thing I have to complain about the game is that the single player is way too short. You 
 might now believe this, but I've blasted through the whole game in under 6 hours. Of course, staying 
 until 4 in the morning to finish the game was very worth it.
  
  So how you think of this game is totally up to you. This is just some of of rant of this great 
 game, and sure there are people who are saying this game isn't worth it. Try to see the game for 
 yourself, play the demo, play it if your friend owns it. Me and my friend got this game about 5 
 days ago and we cannot stop playing. It's this addictive. Again, it's all up to you how you conceive 
 this game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dollomite704
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 14, 2007 11:47 am PT
Review:  First off, unbelievable game! Best money I have spent on a game in recent history. SOOO glad I 
 did not get Gears of War. This could not be beat by any game by a long shot. 
  
  Yes, you can beat it in one day if you try hard enough - put the settings on really hard like I 
 did and that stretches it out a bit, makes it a bit more realistic (if you can imagine that) , and 
 makes it even better (if you can imagine that, too) by dragging it out over a few days.
  
  Regardless of that, you will want to play the game through again anyhow, as the graphics are phenomenal 
 and state of the art and gameplay is flawless. I have never seen a war simulation combat game like 
 this before. It was amazing to watch the story unfold and to be a part of even the cut scenes. 
 Kudos to these guys. It was like being there almost.
  
  Multiplayer is the bomb. You actually have things to work and accomplish on a rewards based system 
 of unlocking items, levels, and other goodies. Level up like a ranks in the military. Fantastic! 
 Getting into these maps - fantastic visuals - and going up against a bunch of other guys is way 
 cool! You have to see it to believe it!
  
  This is the best bet if you are looking for a shooter that blows you away and keeps you going in 
 multiplayer day after day. This game is my favorite!!!
  
  Dollomite704 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Netwolf_
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 14, 2007 10:47 am PT
Review:  Yeah really great game.. But are the games too short, I finished it in a couple of hours. Especially 
 the sniper mission... No doubt it's worth to buy.. Very realistic, and the A. I. is also ok... Not 
 too stupid, but also not too clever... And I wait immediately for a add on... But you need a hell 
 of a good PC (And also prepare for Crysis) . But I don't like the end. It could be much much better.. 
 So at the end, you should buy it, and if you are any familiar to a FPS game, you'll finish it in 
 a couple of hours, and wait for the next one... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: _Target_
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 14, 2007 10:40 am PT
Review:  This was my first cod and wht a game it was amazing graphics i was play at the low high graphic 
 but it was still amazing. I think if i had a good ram and i played it on the highest graphics it 
 would hace look soooooo amazing 
  
  Now lets get down to business this review is in 3 section 1. Good Stuff 
  2. Bad Stuff 3. thing 
 they could have put 
  
  
  Good Stuff
  Graphics
  Weapons Choice
  AI movemennt (i mean when u sniper an AI in the leg they will fall down) thts good
  multiplayer
 
  maps for multiplayer
  good story with suprises
  sound
  
  bad stuff
  Tooo Short
  No buddy list for online
  connection problem (dont no if its only me, i met some people tht had 
 tht problem they said activision r try 2 solve it)
  bad ending
  
  
  thing they could have put 
  better story 
  longer gameplay
  if the person u can play can 
 talk
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: masanhueza
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 14, 2007 10:10 am PT
Review:  Call of Duty has always been a great saga of WW II games, I personally enjoy a lot the previews 
 versions. But I have to say that Cod 4 really kicks the old ones. Graphics are great, maybe a little 
 out of date if you compare with visual kicking games like Crysis, but still they`re exelente. Sound 
 as usual in the series is awesome, with explosions, gunfire and screams make feel like you are 
 in the field of war. Gameplay has improve a lot making the firefight more interesting cause you 
 have more resource to clean up rooms like flashbang and the oportunity to shoot through wall wich 
 is a very cool aspect of the game. System requirement are other positive aspect of the game you 
 don`t need a very poweful PC to play. I actually run the game on a geforce 8600gt oc and runs and 
 look great. I get about 70 FPS and in some ocations even 100 FPS. I recommended this title for 
 the ones who enjoy FPS and are looking for an intense experience.
  Whorth every peny, actually the only problem of the game it`s that actually has a ending because 
 you don`t want to stop to play it 
::::::

::::::
UserName: allsportsgp
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 14, 2007 9:26 am PT
Review:  Finding an FPS that runs not only on the high end machines, but also beautifully on the lower end 
 machines is far and few in-between. COD4 not only lives up to its hype, but delivers gameplay and 
 graphics that are astounding on higher end machines and also suited towards a lower end machine 
 as well. The game is just beautiful, the sounds are immersive. I actually found myself ducking 
 at one point when bullets were ricocheting off the walls and surrounding environment.
  
  Do yourself a favor this holiday, buy the game and upgrade your video card so you can experience 
 it how its meant to be experienced!
  
  I give COD4 an 8.5 due to the lacking single-player campaign. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: joelczw
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 14, 2007 8:13 am PT
Review:  This next episode of the series from Activision is really another one up the level since COD 2 
 and United Offensive... completed the game in less than 10 hours but enjoyed every moment of it... even 
 for the briefing during in-game loading!! 
  The graphics and image rendering have been one of the best in the series, much better and improved 
 since COD2 and COD2UO. During the whole game i took a total of 100+ screenshots!!! Characters and 
 world are all mapped in stunning detail even with my less-than-decent rig.
  The cut scenes immediately immerse you into the storyworld of counter-terrorism. You will be brought 
 immiediately into the world of a SAS and US First Recon soldier and progress through the game, 
 and this time you can make certain decisions that will influence the game in small little ways, 
 e. g. the Chernobyl sniper mission.
  The voice-acting is superb, wat with the radio chatter and commands given by the lead soldier, 
 you wont be at a total lost during mid-mission and suddenly feel you've become a elite commando 
 launching into firefights with overwhelming odds.
  The AI remains top-notch as COD2UO. Each character is animated and narrated so distinctively in 
 the game you've won't feel that they are noisy or bland instead you'll feel their voices just bring 
 you further into the game and mood.
  And the minimal system requirements are a plus point to luring gamers to purchase and participate 
 in the game.
  This game is certainly bang for my buck :-) 
  and it's definitely worth the wait, a contender for Game of The Year !!!
  .... don't miss this 
 game, don't ever miss playing this game!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wk7777
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 14, 2007 8:04 am PT
Review:  I really liked CoD and CoD 2 but CoD 4 is the best by far!!! 
  
  True the single player is a bit short, but WOW it's great!!! It's very well paced and very intense! 
 The balance of game play is also very good. It's not so hard that it's no fun. I found that on 
 the recruit level I could run through the whole game fairly easily. The higher levels dish out 
 as much or challenge as I could handle.
  
  I also liked the different tasks and functions that were available during the single player game. 
 For example the AC-130H Spectre Gunship sequence was a great change of pace! 
  
  Another nice feature is being able to play any mission once you have completed the game.
  
 
  The multi-player is also excellent. Similar to CoD2, but has additional game types. It also allows 
 for additional skills as you advance. Lastly, I really liked the ability to create weapons profiles 
 and select the weapons you really want. 
  
  The Single Player game is great. With the excellent multi-player game too this makes the game well 
 worth the money!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DJ_ranch
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 14, 2007 7:54 am PT
Review:  This game is greatest Call of Duty ever. Graphics is just excellent. If you play this game then 
 you think that you wanna be also there with your gun and shoot bad guys. If you own 7.1 surround 
 system then your sound is more then perfect. You feel like you are in the game. For now there isn't 
 any better shooter game that i have played. Also what i saw and most liked was the first mission 
 on the cargo ship what is registered in Estonia (where I live) . Only bad thing what I can say about 
 this game is that it was quit short. I played it about 6 or 6 and half a hour.
  
  To compare Call of Duty 3 and Call of Duty 4 then CoD4 story was longer then CoD3, weapons where 
 more real and awesome in CoD4, graphics was highly better in CoD4 and overall CoD4 is Greatest 
 Call of Duty ever made (my opinion) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Fu5ka5
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 14, 2007 5:41 am PT
Review:  the game graphics are excelente but the gameplay sucks, some weapons are not real and the recoil 
 of the weapons is not present. I can say this cause I fired almost all the weapons in the game 
 in my military training, and the weapons are completily different, and the sounds of the weapons 
 they are not real in the game. But overall it's a good game, single player mission is excelent 
 (shame to be so small) online playing is other story, omg it's iqual to COD 2, you shoot at the 
 foot and sometimes they give you an head-shot, looool! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: luisviveiros
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 14, 2007 3:37 am PT
Review:  The perfect FPS, not making everyone run into hardware stores to get expensive upgrades, any average 
 2/3 year PC can run it at nice video quality, very well done in all aspects, now it should allow 
 to implant user mods, or allow users to create missions with the environments already in game!
 
  IThere should also exist a mission editor for development os the game, this way it would take 
 some years of playing this never boring title. Cant wayt to put my hands on my own COD4 to play 
 online!
  The missions have the right spots of savegame, and the time set for each mission is very nice and 
 correct, as well as it was in COD2, the leak is the need for more missions, in COD2 it was 30 (?) 
 and in COD4 around 18 (?) , the same 30 would be greater, with SEAL missions, homeland security 
 for terrorism, or other places, missions with support for other country secutyes for politicions 
 as a sniper, or body-gardening a president with attempt occuring and a very fast action to catch 
 the sniper, imagination would lead a long letter.
  s this was a new batleground since COD2, it should have a carreer mode, with recruit and simple 
 mission, that could let us to be promoted until we could achieve Major qualifiing, or start missions 
 as a undercover military security agent.
  
  Congratulations to developers! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gamedave0
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 14, 2007 12:28 am PT
Review:  What game play!! I found this to be more of a simulation than a game but all the fun and then some. 
 I have only stared playing the Demo and I am feeling a little disorentated. It really wants me 
 to upgrade my computer from low mid-grade to high grade to all that is new. however it was really 
 nice to at least have a chance to play it unlike some game that need for 2.8 and up. when all I 
 have is 2.39 AMD (OC) .
  This is the kind of game that makes Battlefield 2 look like a walk in the park. I really like the 
 effects that it gives when you are being shot at and when you are being hit. The one thing that 
 was strange it really felt like I had tunnel vision, and the stuble like the real wonded that I 
 had become really sucked me in to this game and look forward to the full version. this is a must 
 have for those who like 1st person shouters you will find a new love and this really delivers. 
 Thanks gamedave72 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JGrieger
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 13, 2007 10:37 pm PT
Review:  While the single player campaign is short, it is also oh, so very, sweet... you get dropped in immediately 
 into the action. It's very different from COD2 since instead of being in the middle of a war, you're 
 doing mostly black ops and squad/unit combat. There is nothing wrong with that and for good reason, 
 as useless as the AI is (except as bullet catchers) it's no different from COD2. Would it be helpful 
 if you could sit back and they could take care of stuff, sure but it wouldn't be as much fun. 
 
  
  Throughout the campaign, you'll jump around to different missions in Russia and in the Middle East. 
 Most are ground-pounding but some are beautiful changes of pace. My favorite was manning the AC-130's 
 various cannons... even the radio chatter was realistic. 
  
  Probably the best thing of all is something that I've been wanting in the COD franchise for ages: 
 you can shoot through most soft materials like wood, thin metal and plaster... the first time you 
 kill someone through a wall you'll crap yourself (unless you're a CS player then you'll just say, 
 it's about friggin time!) . This carries over into multiplayer and makes the game oh so much more 
 satisfying. I've logged soooo many kills through walls where I'm just laughing at the though of 
 someone sitting miles away going, WTF? 
  
  The other thing is they (finally) brought back airstrikes (= arty from COD/UO) . No kidding... no 
 mods needed! 
  
  They put in a rank and challenge (read: achievement) system which is great. You gain points for 
 kills (+10) , assists (+2) , achieving objectives, etc. As you gain points, you gain rank (military 
 ranks with some intermediates... like Major I, Major II, etc.) which unlocks weapons for use in 
 MP. As you complete challenges (X kills with the AK-47, X headshots with the M4A4) , you unlock 
 extras for the gun in question like better sights or different camo. 
  
  Negatives? Outside of the overly useless AI in single player and some painful SP missions (the 
 sniper mission where you're waiting for the helo is ridiculous on hardened... I think I'll end up 
 pissing myself on veteran) , there isn't much to complain about... nothing major. I still hate the 
 fact that they're still doing the old quake thing and using two separate apps for SP and MP (with 
 different settings and the like) but the gameplay in SP is so much like being in a movie and the 
 MP gameplay is just so damned fun I can't complain much. 
  
  I know I'm going to take a break from it to play Crysis but... I will always return to COD4 MP... it 
 is just beautiful. I'd tell you my favorite server but then I'll never get to go on there so... just 
 look for LoneGunman killing you through a wall... again... :)
  
  Oh, and don't forget to stay through the credits... the epiloque is sweet. I'm surprised more games 
 don't do that. It's like the little bit of dessert you get at the end of a movie's credits. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Onliner2
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 14, 2007 10:38 am PT
Review:  Call of Duty 4: Modern Warfare brings the traditional cinematic experience found in previous Call 
 of Duty games to the, well, modern era. Infinity Ward didn't really stay too far from their formula 
 of playing through a Hollywood version of an FPS but instead added some fresh, new content to their 
 series. I'm pretty sure that many people were tired of defeating the Third Reich over, and over, 
 and over again, so just having an FPS in a different era/setting was a nice change. The nice selection 
 of automatic weapons, grenade launchers, anti-tank weapons, modern day settings and vehicles, etc. 
 is more than enough to make you overlook the similarities in game play to the original CoD games.
 
  
  The single player campaign is probably where most people will play for a bit, then leave it to 
 collect dust in change for the multi-player modes. I would have to say that it would be a real 
 shame to miss out on the CoD4 single player experience. The storyline may not be the greatest but 
 it is interesting enough to keep your attention and connect all of the missions together. The main 
 reason to play through the single player, however, is the cinematic visuals you'll experience while 
 playing through the game. This game has many moments where it has you sitting on the edge of your 
 seat and even throwing you out of your seat at times. Infinity Ward was able to keep these moments 
 even paced and consistent throughout the entire game, leaving you with a very memorable experience 
 and feeling of having played a well-put together game.
  
  The downside to the single player is that it doesn't last very long and replay value is limited 
 on terms of accomplishing something, although there is extra items you can collect throughout the 
 campaign and the arcade/best score versions of each level. However, CoD4 won't leave your CD tray 
 easily with it's addictive and semi-deep multi-player modes.
  
  CoD 4 brings ranks to it's series and allows players to earn special customization of their weapons 
 and abilities via "Perks". This adds an extra element to the old CoD multi-player modes, which 
 weren't exactly too thrilling to begin with. The abundance of multi-player levels, most of them 
 being good, also helps to keep things from feeling too redundant. If you like fast paced, tactical 
 shooting with a nice set of rewards to earn, then CoD4 multi-player will have you playing for a 
 good while. On the flip side though, even the ranking system is quite quick and players will eventually 
 unlock everything within a month or two of playing consistently.
  
  In the end, CoD4 is a great FPS that probably suits anyone who enjoys playing FPS shooters, online 
 or offline and is definitely the best in the series. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dcook42
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 13, 2007 8:31 pm PT
Review:  I had high expectations for this game, and the actual game surpassed them all. The Single Player 
 is all QUALITY, and I didn't feel short changed at all by it's "shorter than most fps's" length. 
 Multiplayer is SO Addicting, you just can't put it down. Unlocking items are valuable, but you 
 never feel like you are unfairly out gunned, even at lower levels.
  
  Buy this game. Infiniti Ward has earned your money. I'll be playing this one for months to come 
 for sure. Crysis can wait until vista gets fixed as far as I'm concerned (and yes I know you can 
 play dx9 but who wants to do that?) .
  
  Enjoy! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kryu88
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 13, 2007 6:31 pm PT
Review:  When I first heard the next installment in the Call of Duty franchise would not be in World War 
 II, but in modern times, I didn't know what to think. I for one am not too keen on modern warfare 
 games and I didn't know if I would really like Call of Duty 4. However, the guys/gals at Infinity 
 Ward did not disappoint in bringing the COD franchise to the modern age while maintaining the aspects 
 that made Call of Duty 1, 2, and 3 so successful.
  
  In the single player campaign you are thrust into a conflict in either the present day or the near 
 future, it never really tells you, where a madman is threatening to take control of the Middle 
 East and he has those bombs that make big boom booms. But, the story surprisingly isn't that simple, 
 for a FPS, this game has a pretty deep and interesting story. You are put in the combat boots of 
 a fresh recruit in the British S. A. S unit, codenamed, "Soap" McTavish and at other times you'll 
 play as the slightly less uniquely named, Sgt. Jackson of the U. S. M. C. The missions you play through 
 are intense, well animated, and very engrossing. This has to be one of, if not the, most intense 
 and fun single player campaigns in a FPS ever. It is shame it so short, which is single player's 
 only real fault. If only there had been a few more hours worth of gameplay in SP, then this game 
 may have gotten a near perfect score.
  
  I'll also say this, the AI in single player are no fools when it comes to tactics or firefights. 
 They will back each other up in a tight spot by throwing flash grenades, providing covering fire, 
 or running back behind a nearby dumpster. These guys are tough, even on Normal mode, on the higher 
 levels they are near impossible to kill at some points. Of course your allies are no slobs either, 
 they bark commands at each other and do all the things the enemy AI does. 
  
  However, with any shooter nowadays, it's the multiplayer which gives a shooter longevity on the 
 market and COD4 has some of the best multiplayer options and gameplay out there. There are the 
 classic, Deathmatch, Team Deathmatch, Headquarters, Search and Destory, and Domination that occur 
 in nearly every Call of Duty game. All these modes transition well to modern warfare. I do feel 
 they kinda copied Battlefield a bit though, with the experience you earn from battle you go up 
 in rank and unlock new weapons, challenges, and skins for your guns. There are numerous guns to 
 unlock, including the ole MP44 from the other COD games. You can also unlock attachments for your 
 guns, like a laser sight, grenade launcher, etc after you gain a certain amount of experience or 
 complete a certain challenge. The other neat thing about the multiplayer is that you have "Perks" 
 which give your little warrior of destruction actual individuality! You can have everything from 
 extra health, longer sprint times, to Martyr (which automatically drops a frag grenade when you 
 die) , and Last Stand (which allows you to live for about 5-10 seconds longer to get one final shot 
 off with your pistol) All these things add up to a great multiplayer formula that is fun and challenging. 
 
  
  It is kind of annoying how ridiculously accurate some guns are though, you can literally snipe 
 across a map with a pistol........ which kind of feels like it takes some of the skill out of the 
 game, knowing that you can just spray and kill basically everytime.
  
  The graphics will make you want to break down and cry at its beauty! The graphics in COD4 are simply 
 stunning and add to the realism of the conflict. The uniforms, faces, and guns all are accurately 
 detailed to look real and the environments really give each map or location its' own identity. 
 It is rather odd how a constant breeze is always going over the battlefield to make scrap paper 
 and litter always go galabanting across streets..... just something I noticed.
  
  The sound design is on par with the graphics, all the guns, voices, and sound effects in COD4 are 
 too realistic. If you have a surround sound set to hook up to your PC or whatever you use to play 
 this game, for love of pete use it!!!! You will most likely have to slap yourself in the face a 
 few times to come back to reality after you're done playing, but it will engross you, it will.
 
  
  Overall-
  
  Pros=
  -Amazing and Interesting Single Player Campaign
  -Real Life Graphics that are jaw droppingly gorgeous
  -Superior Sound design that brings the 
 conflict to life
  -Great multiplayer options and gametypes
  
  Cons=
  -Single Player is too short
  -Some players may be put off by the jump to modern warfare 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jealentus
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 13, 2007 4:35 pm PT
Review:  I've been an avid CoD fan since the first came out for PC back in 2003. I loved it, it was paced 
 almost perfectly, had enough action and variety in gunfights and weapons to make it easily one 
 of my favorite FPS. The expansion came out and brought more of the same, but a little more open 
 ended and covering a few more battles. Complimented the original quite nicely. The second Call 
 of Duty comes out a couple years later and while it didn't have the impact the first had, it brought 
 a little more of the warmly welcomed action with a graphical face lift. There wasn't any Stalingrad 
 beach storming scenes but it did have the Junon assault on D-Day which played pretty well. The 
 use of music matched the tone of the game and its events as well. Call of Duty 3 comes out, but 
 its only on console, and I don't have any of the systems, so I can't say anything about it. From 
 what I hear more of the same.
  
  Call of Duty 4 gets announced a year later and rather than taking stage in World War 2, it brings 
 it to a modern day fictional war. Its fictional but it parodies Saddam Heussein in a few ways. 
 The back story on the guy is he overthrows the government of whatever country you're fighting in 
 (presumably some Middle Eastern territory like... Iraq??) and the threat of nuclear launch is imminent. 
 Sound familliar? Anyway, you play as two main characters, a US Marine and a British SAS Commando. 
 The arsenals are equally as fitting. 
  
  The game begins with a new feature that hasn't been used in the other CoD games, and that is in 
 game rendered cut scenes. It begins in the first person view of the current president of whatever 
 country it is (its never titled) at his own execution on live TV. The new dictator says some things 
 in a language I can't comprehend, and then walks up to you in slow motion with a nice motion blur, 
 complemented by a pulse that gradually slows to show the intensity as a Desert Eagle is pointed 
 in your face and the trigger is pulled.
  
  The game immediately cuts to your SAS team and you storm a cargo ship with some information about 
 the nukes on it. The game jumps every other level to the other character. While playing as the 
 Marine you do pretty much conventional CoD fare (storming buildings, blowing things up, supressing 
 fire, meeting goals in deadlines) in an Iraqi setting. All the modern weapons one would expect 
 to find in a modern war are present, and although they don't handle or sound remotely like the 
 real thing, they balance out nicely and make the game fun. The animation is superb, it never got 
 old reloading. The running looks very real, like the characters are actually carrying 40+ pounds 
 of gear and are being shot at. They lean into their run. Gunshots throw people back and knock them 
 on the ground. Grenades send bodies flying. Ragdoll physics are in full effect at long last.
  
  There are a few missions to throw a little variety into the gameplay. At one point as the SAS 
 you are invading an enemy villiage and have an AC-130 covering you. Once you're up to the town, 
 you take control as a gunner in the gunship and get to lay waste with some explosive rounds and 
 missiles. The camera filters used make the game look almost real. You can put on two shades to 
 the thermal camera, light and dark, and it makes it very atmospheric and easy to believe. The audio 
 sounds like any footage you've seen of the real thing, gunners doing their job but throwing back 
 sarcasm and having some fun. 
  
  Another mission has you in a gillie suit (that leaf covered garb snipers wear) as it replays a 
 past event and you play as the SAS commander. Its very stealthy, but paced really well. You have 
 to stay still, but take out targets while their comrades aren't looking with a semi automatic M21. 
 Its silenced, and adds a nice feel and an even better break to the action. You get the choice to 
 sneak or take out targets, so its really open ended which is nice in a game that relies so heavily 
 on scripted events. Eventually you have to assassinate a target from 800 meters away with a .50 
 sniper rifle. The game simulates the wind conditions and whatnot and it requires quite a bit of 
 skill to do correctly, but it leads to an intense escape afterward.
  
  The cutscene concept introduced in the game works really well and adds a lot of intensity. This 
 is somewhat of a spoiler but its not that big a deal considering its an FPS that doesn't have hundreds 
 of hours of character development, but for the first time I've seen in a video game, the main character 
 you play as diesor at least the Marine does. The nukes are no longer a threat but an action. You 
 see the mushroom cloud detonate in the distance and its shockwaves pulsing through. You're in a 
 helicoptor during an evacuation and all hell breaks loose, the ship gets ripped apart and you can 
 see your comrades getting sucked out the back. You crash land and wake up in a dramatic slow motion 
 manner with that nice blur effect. The image of the carnage is really handled nicely and defenitally 
 deserves praise. Atmosphere is everything here.
  
  I played it at Hardened difficulty, second hardest, because I've played a lot of FPS over the years 
 and thought I could handle it. It was just the right amount of difficulty. I had to replay certain 
 firefights upwards of 20 times because the AI worked well and the way the levels were designed 
 leaves a lot of room for you to do your own thing, which I did wrong on several occasions. I got 
 angry. I haven't gotten angry at a singleplayer game like that in quite a while, almost like a 
 toss back to the days when I would punch my SNES. I never got too angry to where I quit playing 
 though, I could always cool down and finish it later. The difficulty is balanced perfectly on that 
 edge between too easy and too hard.
  
  The presentation values were top notch. There was a good amount of normal mapping which added some 
 realism and the textures were done well. The lighting style supplemented the game heavily, making 
 it feel more gritty and real. Colors were brilliant, especially in the nuclear ravaged town. Chernobyl 
 felt dead. The audio was about as good as Call of Duty is known for, it presents the carange to 
 you right there and makes you feel like there's a battle going on. No complaints in this department.
 
  
  Overall I had high expectations for the game based on Activision and Infinity Wards previous ventures, 
 and to put it simply, it met them. Highly reccomended. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Raziel212
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 13, 2007 4:16 pm PT
Review:  Thought i'd throw in my 10 cents. 
  I thought it was the closest thing to real life as I've ever seen in a fps game. And what really 
 sets it apart from the rest is the character interaction and story. When my guy pulled the chopper 
 pilot from the crash and then... well you should know what happens next (no spoilers) I really felt 
 a sense of oh my god I just achieved something I'm proud of. 
  
  Every mission sucked me in and although I'm ashamed to admit it, I completed it within a day (prob 
 less than 10 hours) . 
  
  Graphically, it IS all it's cracked to be. I have a fairly old PC, (P4 3.0ghz, 1gb RAM, Geforce 
 6800 256mb) and sadly had to play it on low settings. I hardly noticed and cant wait to buy a new 
 PC to see it in its full glory.
  
  The one thing that made me sad, apart from the ending, was well.... the ending..... it came far to 
 quickly. The one thing that stopped me from giving this game a 10 was that it's over before you 
 know it. But for 25, it IS well worth it. 
  
  HIGHLY RECOMMENDED!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ratzuk01
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 13, 2007 3:13 pm PT
Review:  Played it on Intel C2D 6600, 8800GTX, VISTA HP 64bit on maxed out visuals and it runs great, no 
 slowdown at all and it does get very busy on screen. Visually stunning.
  
  Single player i agree with others it is rather short but playing on Hardcore difficulty it is satisfying, 
 when you get it wrong you die very quickly but if you live you get a good sense of achievement. 
 
  
  AI teammates mostly follow your lead in a firefight, unless their kicking in doors or getting savaged 
 by dogs :-)
  AI enemy use cover effectively, rush and retreat where appropriate, occasionally they even throw 
 back your grenades :- (
  
  Multiplayer, i've hardly touched yet but most game modes are catered for, team deathmatch, free 
 for all etc...
  Score points for doing well and you gain ranks, opening up new weapons to create your own soldier 
 class, a bit similar to the Battlefield franchise. Achievements can also be gained, ie: 75 kills 
 with assault rifle or 25 head shots with sniper rifle, will give your soldier added perks. A great 
 addition to the ranking system in my opinion as it gives you incentives to go for and to try out 
 the other soldier classes, albeit similar again to the battlefield medal system. Hey, if it ain't 
 broke..... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hwint
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 13, 2007 2:49 pm PT
Review:  Though a linear rail shooter like the rest of the COD series, this game's presentation and performance 
 make it an absolute masterpiece. Is it linear? Yes. Is it fun? You bet! Very cinematic. This game 
 lets you "play" a movie as opposed to watching one. I cannot stress enough my appreciation for 
 the attention to detail displayed here. You will be wowed. This game is fun, fun, fun! As for performance, 
 it runs like a dream. With all its eye-candy, it manages to run smooth as silk on mid-range to 
 high-end computers -- bravo to the coders! This is what users should expect, not hope for. Current 
 mid-range hardware should be plenty for programmers to work with. This game proves that you can 
 have both eye-candy AND performance without breaking the bank. Don't let sloppy designers lead 
 you to believe otherwise! Top notch job, Infinity Ward! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Brean24
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 13, 2007 2:42 pm PT
Review:  Call of Duty 4 is a great game. Not only is the graphics top notch the game play is just as good. 
 When I got call of duty 3 I was dispointed. It made me worrie if IW stoped making the call of duty 
 series. Luckly IW made this game and to put what I think of the story in one word it would be this: 
 Imersive. It sucks you right in.
  Although Call of Duty 4 has a short single player by the time you are done playing it you will 
 be almost crying. I am not going to give away the ending but trust me, you almost crap your self 
 when you see it. 
  Overall Call of Duty 4 is a great game that I recomand to anyone who even likes shooters. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: silensmemorias
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 18, 2007 1:44 pm PT
Review:  So, after months of waiting for CoD 4, it's finally here. I personally am a pretty big fan of CoD. 
 It has been very faithful over the years and I am really happy that it took a break from WWII and 
 gave us a taste of modern warfare. The game does have its downsides, but you won't notice them. 
 Trust me. You won't.
  
  
  Graphics (10/10) :
  CoD 4 is a graphical powerhouse, easily rivaling Halo 3, Crysis, and basically any other game out 
 there. The characters are insanely good looking, although sometimes in the beginning its hard to 
 tell your guys apart from the enemy. The buildings and environments are even better. I mean, it 
 sounds cliche, but it really looks like I'm there. It's just stunning. Honestly, I could not find 
 one flaw with the graphics. At all.
  
  Sound (9/10) :
  The sound overall is pretty good. Sometimes when you're running, it seems like the footsteps are 
 out of sync when your character takes a step, but other than that, the guns sound very good and 
 the feedback from the soldiers is extremely good.
  
  Gameplay (9.5/10) :
  Let me just say that the controls for this game were probably one of the best controls systems 
 for any game. Ever. E-V-E-R. Although they vary a little bit from the original CoDs, you'll get 
 the hang of it. Don't worry if it feels like you're really bad at the game in the beginning, it's 
 just that you haven't gotten used to the controls. One thing I don't like is that in multi player, 
 there aren't ANY vehicles, unlike CoD 3. But you have to understand, these futuristic vehicles 
 are so powerful, whoever gets their hands on the steering wheel has basically just one. It's also 
 a little bit tough for beginners to land any shots on veterans. It takes a long time to anywhere 
 close to being as good as the veterans. But overall, game play is great. EDIT: I just finished 
 the game and it really mis too short and ends pretty abruptly.
  
  Lastability (10/10) :
  Sure, there aren't vehicles in multiplayer, sure the single player is a little short, but you probably 
 won't stop playing this game for a few years to come. There is just so much stuff to unlock in 
 multi player, you'll never be able to put the remote down. Even at that, you can keep playing the 
 single player mode and NEVER get tired of it. 
  
  Final Comment:
  Overall, CoD stays true to its name and keeps that "CoD" feel to it. The singleplayer is pretty 
 damn short, but the "bonds" you make with your squad mates really makes you feel like your living 
 the game, and those bonds with your squad mates really gets to you at the end. Yes. The ending 
 is really sad. You can sort of guess what happens. It's a great game that will never disappoint 
 and always keep you entertained. I recommend picking it up right now. Final score, 10 out of 10.
 
  
  R. I. P Jackson, Price, Gaz, and Griggs. Greatest squad mates a guy could ask for. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bandwerks
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 13, 2007 12:47 pm PT
Review:  Wow!
  
  This game has it all: graphics, gameplay, immersion, story, diversity, challenge, a riveting single 
 player campaign, AND an unrivalled series of multiplayer modes that clearly leave all warfare shooters 
 in the dust .
  
  From the attention to detail of the environments, to the complete immersion factor this game brings: 
 COD4 delivers the goods. 
  
  Some highlights:
  
  FIRST CLASS OPTIMIZATION - unlike alot of sloppy coders out there, this game runs as smooth on 
 a 7950 as it does on an 8800GTS. 
  
  SINGLE PLAYER CAMPAIGN - perfection in length, roughly ten to twelve hours on hardened, with the 
 ideal blend of character immersion into a precision story with just the right level of difficulty 
 to be proud of completion. This game is exactly how long it needed to be to feel complete.
  
  MULTIPLAYER MODES - a whole new level of class and sophistication with realistic weapon feels, 
 hundreds of sub-challenges that go just beyond a straight online shooter, and so many ways to derive 
 enjoyment your mouse hand is destined to go numb in the first week.
  
  GRAPHICS - all I can say is wow. They work, they are breathtaking, and again the Call of Duty series 
 sets a whole new bar for next generation.
  
  All game expectations and bias from advertising dollars aside (come on Gamespot - only a 9.0 versus 
 Halo / Crysis auto stamps of 9.5 that came pre-canned prior to game release ????) - this is easily 
 the best game you will have ever played.
  
  Another rigid testament to the fact that it takes more than just great graphics to make an excellent 
 game. Thanks Activision for an instant classic, and a remarkable paradigm in visuals versus gameplay. 
 
  
  Legendary!
  
  Right now unquestionably #1 in my gaming library of more than 500 titles. 
  
  
  - Doctor 
 Cream 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lonegardian
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 13, 2007 8:18 am PT
Review:  The entire wait for this game paid off so well with the release of Call of Duty 4, modern warfare.
 
  
  I would say, COD 4 is the best in the series for many reasons. Though it feels kind of short, COD 
 4 covers a lot of ground by putting the player in various tight spots in the world allowing them 
 to play many vital roles in combat situations. 
  
  Presentation of the game is very authentic and mind blowing. From the very moment each mission 
 starts to load, you feel the heat of the situation, and when you are on the field, you are in it 
 for real.
  
  One great thing I love in COD 4 is the cinematic nature of the game. For examples, after the nuclear 
 blast that killed 'Al-Asad' along with U. S Marines, without just telling about the horrific nuclear 
 blast and the deaths of the army men, the game shows the final moments of the character, the destruction 
 of the environment cased by the blast. And at the very end of the game, you get a final chance 
 to kill a terrorist leader and 2 others, it feels so natural because the game limits the movements 
 and abilities of the player, since they were exposed to a huge blast and were pinned down by the 
 enemy.
  
  The game has some very emotional moments too. Specially the death of U. S Marine Sgt. Paul Jackson. 
 He did a great service before his death, the game makes the player feel that chaotic situation 
 like in real world. 
  
  End is very satisfying; all the questions raised in the game are well answered. It is also notable 
 that COD 4 covers a lot of ground in its single player campaign. From great sniping missions to 
 recon, assault, rescue and providing close air-support from a AC-130 gunship, it is full of challenging 
 yet very exciting moments.
  
  The game is some what linear, but can easily get lost and confused in the environment, especially 
 when the time is running and when you are pinned down and out numbered. 
  
  A great deal of RnD have been gone in to the game. Weapons and equipments are well designed.
 
  
  All and all, COD 4 is such a wonderful game with great graphics, game play and story.
  
  Favorite Mission  All Ghilled up.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: SolidSnakeNL
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 13, 2007 4:26 am PT
Review:  this is best call of duty every this game could be the best game of the year its not easy to play 
 maybe the single player could be a bit longer and a co-op mode could be fun two with like 4 people 
 the gameplay is like something i have never seen befor the engine is more stabile then all the 
 game on the marked only the steam version has some issuas with lauching the game in steam and punkbuster 
 is hard to install on steam but i hope this will be fix very soon so if your smart this game is 
 must have for people above a age of 16 because i think the game is to difficult for people jonger 
 then this age 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DA_BERT
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 13, 2007 4:03 am PT
Review:  I have bought this game about 4 days ago and im already addicted to it :p This game's SP was al 
 little bit on the short side, but the missions were well balanced and pretty cool. When i finished 
 the last mission ive started to play MP. Cool maps and cool weapons.. the perfect combination for 
 a great game. I really like the classsystem. It's nice that you have some sort of advantage on 
 the less 'experienced' players. If you are a sneaky player, you can put a silencer on it, if you 
 want to be precise, you can put the red dot on. The short version: PERFECT ! Best shooter till 
 now ! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xgalacticax
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 13, 2007 3:32 am PT
Review:  First of all, if you are a fan of FPS games (and of course you are, if not, you wouldnt be reading 
 this review) , call of duty 4 is definitely a must buy. From invading a cargo ship in the first 
 level to witnessing a nuclear explosion in this game, you are always on your toes, having to rely 
 on awesome weapons including the desert eagle and the M4A1 grenadier assault rifle to survive against 
 a constant assault from enemy AK47s, G3s and RPGs. The story is very immersive sometimes having 
 you convinced you are physically in the battle and some objectives just make you want to keep playing 
 this game, like taking out a chopper with a stinger and calling air strikes on enemy positions. 
 This was the first call of duty I played because Im not really a fan of WW2 shooters and I have 
 to say it is worth every penny. Personally, I prefer campaigns to multiplayer but whichever one 
 you prefer, call of duty 4 delivers in abundance. The story sees you playing as a rookie British 
 SAS operative named 'Soap McTavish' working with the US Marines (with which you will also play 
 on some missions as a marine called Paul Jackson) to stop a renegade Russian terrorist called Zakhaev 
 who's using some puppet called Al-Asad to arrange for a nuclear attack on US cities. The campaign 
 mode was quite short (I think I finished the game in about 5 to 6 hours on hard) but worry not; 
 The game offers you an arcade mode when you complete it which allows you to play through the missions 
 again and again trying for a high score (for the die hard modern day FPS fans like me) and you 
 will be going back for more with the quality of this game's story and action. Even when you finally 
 get (if you do) bored of playing the campaign mode, an awesome multiplayer experience awaits you. 
 The only fault I see with this game is it could have done with a cooperative campaign mode, otherwise, 
 it is a perfect game in every way. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: waldowin
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 13, 2007 2:46 am PT
Review:  The atmosphere, voice-acting, and animations in this game are fantastic, as you'd expect from the 
 creators of the CoD series. Unfortunately, it suffers from the same annoyances as its predecessors 
 as well.
  
  Enemies will spawn literally endlessly. You can hold a corner all day long, barely holding back 
 wave after wave of bad guys, before you realize they will literally never stop until you reach 
 a checkpoint. This kills the immersion when it occurs, and can be quite frustrating, especially 
 as your team-mates' AI seems to suffer a bit at range, and their accuracy goes to pot.
  
  Some attacks (grenades, RPG's, etc) will kill you immediately. Fortunately, the grenade warning 
 indicator is fantastically useful, and you can lob grenades back at the enemy with ease. Unfortunately, 
 avoiding an RPG from the endlessly-spawning wave behind you while fighting the endlessly-spawning 
 wave in front of you just isn't possible, and you're left staring at the screen, debating whether 
 or not it's worth it to restart from the last checkpoint.
  
  In-doors though, aside from *more* places with infinitely-spawning bad guys, the environment sucks 
 you in, and you definitely begin to feel like a soldier in (as the title suggests) modern warfare.
 
  
  In short, it has the same pluses as its predecessors (immersive story and environment, realistic 
 gritty feel, satisfying combat) , it has the same pitfalls (endless hordes of bad guys breaks immersion, 
 sometimes you're left staring at your team as they hide from the bad guys around a corner when 
 before they had barged ahead into room after room) . Well worth it though, certainly. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: eglazov
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 13, 2007 2:11 am PT
Review:  The German version I bought is perfectly localized, though I'd better have played the original 
 version. The cinematic sequence at the beginning of the game is sharp in every detail and has a 
 quality of a good movie. The game appeals by its clear and faceted story with nice flash-backs. 
 Moving thoughtfully through the game levels is like reading a spy roman chapter by chapter.
  
  As in the previous games in the series, the developers presented themselves as perfect copycats. 
 The Chernobyl level is just copied with all its buildings and atmosphere from the recent Ukrainian 
 STALKER game, and it's mean, to tell the truth. Different scenes in the Gulf are borrowed from 
 the 'Black Hawk Down', and it's fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Alvega
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 12, 2007 10:58 pm PT
Review:  I usually don't write reviews about games here, but this time i have to do it. This game is simply 
 amazing. I was rating it 9 after playing 4 missions, but now i had to increase it to 9.5. Let's 
 put it this way: we feel like we are there. The mission with Cap. McMillan to kill Al-Asad is something 
 out of this world. Can't explain this by words, you have to play it to know what i'm talking about. 
 I was missing the communication with our team like we have in Rainbow Six: Vegas, and i still do. 
 I think they could have made it that we could interact with our team, but anyway, we soon forget 
 about it. Amazing graphics and gameplay, and i din't try multiplayer yet. Know what? Go get it! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: amal81
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 12, 2007 10:16 pm PT
Review:  The Single player campaign is a bit short. Almost all missions also get over quickly with fast 
 paced action. Guns feel really great. They feel more satisfying when they hit the enemies. In 6 
 months we can expect an expansion. Doesn't need a super computer to run well. 
  
  SP missions are more similar to the first COD than COD2. missions include car chase and blowing 
 up trucks and so on. Reminiscent of the first game. All the guns feel great except for AK. It feels 
 as if you are shooting pop corn than bullets. AC130 mission 'Death from above' feels like watching 
 a Pentagon video on CNN. Not an Original idea, but good none the less.
  
  The game has potential for more than 1 expansion. We'll see if thats true or not by summer. Overall 
 better than Bioshock and Crysis. Even though the SP missions are short, has a lot of re-playability. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bcs7jesus
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 12, 2007 9:26 pm PT
Review:  Infinity Ward as always with COD put its best foot forward into creating a new addition with this 
 series. The idea of using today's weapons in COD's environment was fun to its limit, great AI, 
 interesting storyline, and the small but cool way of interacting with the cinimatics. Each level 
 was different which will pose a problem with COD nuts over which "Act" was the best; and I'm sure 
 with most players, and I'm one of them, will play the heart-pounding sniper level over and over 
 again.
  As far as the MP goes I was never impressed with any of the previous COD titles. All I can say 
 is that "Modern Warfare" is........ well...... better. I'm a Battlefield 2 MP I like large maps and 
 total chaos. If you like the close quarters similar to Counter Strike then you won't be upset. 
 As you got through rankings you get better and cooler 'toys' to play with.
  All in all this is a must buy for any FPS fans out there, what am I doing even telling you this...... you 
 probably already planned on getting it anyways, its the new CALL OF DUTY!!!!!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: markrousseau21
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 12, 2007 8:05 pm PT
Review:  After four years of making some of the best World War II shooters on the market, Infinity Ward 
 finally decides to leave the wars of our fathers and move into the wars of our time. Set in the 
 Middle East and Russian areas Call of Duty 4 is the big comeback for Infinity Ward after a hiatus 
 from Call of Duty 2 (Treyarch studios were the makers of Call of Duty 3) . While Call of Duty 2 
 was greatly remember for its intense action and fast pace, the new installment ramps it all up 
 severely. Great visual and level design make up for the short lived campaign mode; but for me the 
 thing that Infinity Ward has always done best is the story telling and cinematics that go on as 
 your playing the game. They make you feel like you're actually in a movie and help the story progress 
 as opposed to progressing through the story.
  The REAL hallmark of the fourth part in the series is the multiplayer. The action is blisteringly 
 fast and although the level design is a little more simple than some of the other shooters out 
 there: you will never find yourself bored running and gunning. One reason for this is the newly 
 implemented RPG style character leveling. As you collect kill points, objective points and complete 
 multiplay matches you earn XP. Your bar is shown at the bottom of the screen and actually moves 
 up as you collect these points. As you "level up" you collect "perks" which are special feats you 
 can acquire, like pulling a grenade pin as you die to take out everyone surrounding you. You also 
 collect various weapons. This of course spawns many hours of "just one more match, one more level 
 up and I'll stop playing for the night".
  With such a knack for story telling, and proving that they are true masters of the multiplay shooter, 
 Infinity Ward takes the series in a refreshingly new direction (as the "Modern Warfare" name implies) 
 and definitely sets the bar much higher for shooters to come.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: natasha8384
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 12, 2007 7:51 pm PT
Review:  Definitively one of the best FPS games ever. Perfect graphics and sound only heighten the game's 
 ability to immerse the player completely within its somewhat above the average story. Weapons feel 
 right and action is intense. Maybe it was the time for CoD to move away from WWII topics, but I 
 believe that they would have achieved the same great results regardless of the time period.
  
  Gameplay: 10/10 singleplayer; 8/10 online MP (8 only because no co-op mode is available)
 
  
  Graphics: 10/10 -- perfect graphics. Many games that boast about their graphics would be happy 
 if they can achieve a half of the graphic quality of CoD4
  
  Sound: 10/10 -- great ambient and battle/weapons sounds
  
  Value: 8/10 -- for about $50 you'll 
 get somewhat shorter singleplayer fun, but possibly unlimited multiplayer replayability
  
  Overall: 9.4/10 -- one of the top FPS games of 2007 (and maybe ever) . The two things keeping me 
 from giving it a straight 10/10 are a lack of co-op multiplayer and relatively short singleplayer 
 play. A must have game if you are an FPS fan. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: godlegend
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 12, 2007 6:56 pm PT
Review:  After just beating the single player campaign, I honestly must say I am having trouble thinking 
 what to do next. I have just been so blown away by what I'm going to call the best campaign I have 
 ever played through. People keep saying that this games only flaw is it is too short. But I think 
 the length of the game is just about right, it tells the story great, and its just really like 
 an amazing 2 hour action movie, except you are controlling it. It's campaign has so many well timed 
 suprises that you are only distracted from the story line for a slight second to take care of the 
 rows of terroist coming your way. Also after playing the multiplayer for a while. It is the best 
 multiplayer out of the 3 Call of Duty's. I have a computer so I do not count the third. It is extremely 
 well balanced and I noticed Activision has made considerable jumps to make the multiplayer more 
 realistic by making it harder to snap in to prone posistion everytime you see somebody and making 
 bunny hopping with an automatic gun or shooting to much with out your scope just difficult in general. 
 Overall one of the best games I have ever played. I currently own Enemy territory: quake wars, 
 World in Conflict, Madden 2008, and Supreme commander, and was playing them quite a lot. But I 
 have honestly not touched those games since i bought this game 4 days ago. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dna_remix_guy
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 12, 2007 5:16 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay: 10
  
  You got everything that any FPS fan would want.
  You have stealth/sniper missions.
  And then you have the run and gun missions.
  Ill tell you, 
 these maps, they feel like real battles. You feel like you are on the battlefield. You can only 
 describe it with the word INTENSE.
  With all the different game difficulty settings there is something for all skill levels.
  Multiplayer 
 maps are very well designed.
  Customizing classes and unlocking perks etc. make you want to play more and more.
  This is COD2 
 to a whole new level.
  
  Graphics: 10
  Beautiful graphics.
  Lots of graphical options.
  Looks so realistic you feel like you are there.
  Cool kill animations.
 
  
  
  Sound: 10
  Beautiful Sound.
  Guns sound crisp and real.
  
  Value: 10
  Absolutely worth its price tag! The multiplayer is enough to pull you in for tons of extra hours!
 
  
  Tilt: 10
  Absolutely awesome!
  
  
  *I put difficulty as hard, this is because some of the final maps are extremely difficult. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 55584623
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 20, 2008 10:23 am PT
Review:  honestly i dindt get much excited when i discovered that the new COD wasnt going to repoduce the 
 second world war again.
  but in the end, the COD 4 producers prove their values by managing to do a game that only earn 
 benefits by the fact that pass true the modern war.
  the producers took all the possible advantages of it, resulting on a very exciting game and variable 
 in terms of scenario and action sequences.
  and of course the other sources of the game dont stay behind.
  the graphics are beatiful and 
 the great that diferent from crysis the game is very "soft" for the computers.
  you wont need a super machine to run COD 4 in high quality.
  the sound is very good too, and 
 of course the gameplay is just perfect as the COD 2 gameplay and even better in some terms.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: wolfgang53
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 12, 2007 3:23 pm PT
Review:  Game quality notwithstanding, this game does not deserve the high score it's getting because of 
 it's absurdly short length. This is more like an add-on than a full game and not worth the premium 
 price. Game publishers have apparently given up on the concept of value and although not in this 
 case, quality as well. If the new standard is going to continue to be less for more, we
  have to let publishers know enough is enough. At least Activision got the quality part right. The 
 graphics are top notch, the combat is challenging, the locals are interesting, the weapons are 
 enjoyable, the game actually works without a patch. But just when you start to appreciate how good 
 the game is, it's over. What a rip-off for a full priced game. I'd have no problem if they charge 
 29.99 for it instead of 49.99. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 3Dsoldier
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 12, 2007 3:02 pm PT
Review:  As single player game it's a awesome military first person shooter probably the best in the series, 
 the campaign is a bit short... this could be because i was enjoying it so very much he he he, it's 
 innovative brings some new stuff in to this kind of games, very cool missions, there are some dang 
 sweet details on this one in my opinion. The graphics are beautiful and it runs smoothly, i don't 
 know if it's from the game engine but it's really great ( better than call of duty's 3 performance 
 i think ) . It's definitely a must play =P 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lord_tanner
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 12, 2007 1:55 pm PT
Review:  This game is one of the best Fps of all time, the only bad is the duration (5 hours for me in hard) 
 but the game is fully of epic moments that all kind of shooter gamer can love, moments like the 
 explotion of a nuclear bomb pay the game by himself,, the story,, is not a bad story, is good,, 
 and can be truth in this times,, maybe the best call of duty ever,, and fps too, because of a lot 
 missiones and movements total new, the missions are like 10-20 minutes, but are so differently 
 and so greats then that dont care,, play whit different guys in different places is assome,, also 
 you can play like Captain Price in Chernobyl,,, for the guys who like the seriee, you know who 
 is Captain Price is, well, no doubt, you have to buy this game,, and when is over, you can play 
 the amazing multiplayer..
  
  
  Let the force be whit you 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dfk4eva
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 12, 2007 12:28 pm PT
Review:  This game is perfect, Graphics, difficulty, gameplay. Everything is well done. The environments 
 are enjoyable to look at. the new guns are awesome. The missions are so realistic, breaching rooms, 
 sniping, blending in with the environments. They did everything perfect. Except for that damn dog, 
 he always kills me I can never win once he jumps all me. That dog is invincible. lol. I could play 
 this game over and over, and beat it so many ways. This is probably the best game out right now, 
 but Crysis is coming. hahah. This game is a must have, multiplayer is so much fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jeffp
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 12, 2007 10:52 am PT
Review:  I have read forum after forum with people complaining that the guns don't sound real enough or 
 that the game play has not changed since COD1. Let me answer that by saying: SOOOOOOOOOO!
  
  This is the first FPS in a long while that I really enjoyed playing. Rather than comparing 
 this game to another I played with the idea of having fun. If tactical is your thing you probably 
 won't enjoy this game all that much. But if you like constant battle with a feel of war there is 
 nothing else that gives you the kind of feeling that this game delivers. Operation Flashpoint, 
 Rainbow, and GRAW are all good games but they lack the in your face constant action that this game 
 provides.
  
  Forget that the guns don't sound 100% like they should and that the game keeps to the same play 
 as the previous and just get it because it is a very entertaining game that gives you the heart 
 pounding excitement that a game like this should deliver. Operation Flashpoint never made me jump 
 like this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kaziechameleon
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 12, 2007 10:29 am PT
Review:  THE GOOD: In a setting that is more over used than say, world war II infinity ward manages to do 
 it agian, reinvigorate a over used setting with some fresh ideas and a rawness absent from other 
 modern warfare games. beautiful visuals, stunning sound, great optimization (i can run it at full 
 settings on my killer machine so low end machines should handle it well) great feel, wonderful 
 diverse gameplay, killer story, great overall presentation. lots of replay value in certian missions 
 and multiplayer legs.
  dogs.
  
  THE BAD: screan stutters at lower mouse sensativities, short story, three sequences in which it 
 becomes you and a few AI teammates vs waves of dozens of enemies feels like the player must rely 
 on exploits you find within the level, not to mention doing so breaks the illusion that the game 
 creates. No vehicles agian!! somewhat annoying servre browser (maybe just me?) goofy difficulties, 
 for singleplayer, there isn't any good difficulty if you ask me, one is too easy, the other is 
 ridiculously hard resulitng in some frustrating moments within the game. lack of COOP!!! dogs.
 
  
  THE RANT (my unfiltered and unspellchecked thoughts skip to the breakdown if you don't like this 
 blog tastic section) 
  This is one of the best games this jam packed fall, if orange box doesn't tickle your fance (which 
 it should) then you need to give this one a whirl. the single player is really short as with every 
 other shooter to come out so far this fall i beat the game the day i bought it. in abot seven hours (i 
 picked a much higher difficulty, silly me) the game on the normal setting will take between 5 and 
 6 hours to beet like halo3, but unlike halo3 nearly every second of this game is fantastic, from 
 the opening with the SAS on a tanker, to the conclusion invulving some nukes, this game packs a 
 real puch, yeah i did feel like the final level was a little less spectacular than some previous 
 but it was a good level, with some good moments just nothing as amazing looking as some of the 
 previous missions like the sniper mission (a new benchmark in sneaky FPS action games) there are 
 a few missions in this game so good i'd buy it for that single mission alone. one mission that 
 eminates the eariness that eminates from modern war is the mission where you are on a artillery 
 airplane blasing unsuspecting insurgents on the ground. it's just chilling you launch a salvo, 
 it lands and "ka-boom" says the pilot over the muted explosion in the distance. i mean it's a short 
 level but the feeling it leaves you with is just unnerving. so the single player is riviting with 
 some simply fantastic setpieces in it. the multiplayer is possibly better, the levels are all well 
 structured, and look great, one of my favorite things about the level in team death match is how 
 they don't have a real direction but feel real instead. after playing for a long time you begin 
 to see the build of the level, the "choke point" and what not, but the levels are so seamless you 
 just feel like you are in a shanty town in the middle east or a russian farm, and that is a good 
 feeling. in teamdeath match they did with spawns what they did in the last one you spawn behind 
 your teammates. the guns all feel unique, the m16 is three round burst only (strange) and a few 
 other weapons have silly limitations but otherwise every weapon feels realistic and immersive. 
 my only problem is that you have mainly anoying selections from the get go, the heavy is the only 
 one i liked, since assualt has the three round burst limitation, and the special ops doesn't always 
 have a silencer (only when you are SAS) . the default sniper rifle has no feeling to it, and the 
 pump shotty is boring (some would say it's pointless, just knife at it's effective range) your default 
 melee is a knife slash. the leveling up is fluid and fun, the combat and weapon custimization is 
 a blast i can't stop playing i'm hooked. this game looks darn good and runs well on my computer, 
 i crank it to the max, and at 1920X1200 it looks good on the 24 inch. i do feel that everyone should 
 give this one a feel, the singleplayer is up there and so is the multiplayer, unlike halo3 (where 
 the innovation is in the not gameplay related editions, forge and movie maker) this game packs 
 enough new feeling and gemeplay additions that it's worth playing over and over agian, not just 
 moding, or making machima. probably the lamest thing about this game is the stuff they left out, 
 if you've played any other call of duty game you know that infinity ward never does vehicles in 
 multiplayer they instead let other devs do that with expansions and stuff. basically they didn't 
 embrace stuff from previous cod iterations they didn't partake in. that is kinda annoying since 
 united offense is one of my favorite multiplayer games still.
  
  THE BREAKDOWN:
  
  GAMEPLAY:
  Simply put, this game borrows enough from the last iterations that you can pick it 
 up and play it, but has enough new (a heck of alot new) so you can't stop playing it any time soon. 
 leaning, iron sighting, and throwing back grenades is all here, it just better than before and 
 when you craft a character class just to suit you style, or mood, then you'll really start to sink 
 your teeth into the potential of the game.
  9
  GRAPHICS:
  amazing, even more so when you realize how smooth the whole game can run on the average pc nowadays, 
 let alone a quad core like mine. this game has finally added ragdoll for some stuff, but still 
 has animations the mix works real well. i do appretiate that this game runs well on high end machines 
 now and not a year from now (crysis) , similar to UT3 this games preformance astounds me. i can't 
 understand how they pull it off.
  9.5
  SOUND:
  every other level has a different feeling or ambience and the audio is responsible for pulling 
 that off. the vioce acting, the explotions, gunfights and footsteps included make this game sound 
 real, it's sounds more real than it looks, what a feet.
  10
  VALUE:
  for fifty bucks, you get a memorable and fantastic story line with gameplay to match, plus a great 
 multiplayer. i don't want singleplayer games of this length to become standard, but this isn't 
 just a singleplayer game now is it?
  8
  TILT:
  I unabashidly love this game, like orange box before it, run out and buy now!!!
  9.5
  CLOSING 
 COMMENTS:
  Games set in the modern enviroments will have much more expected from them from now on. the few 
 things i consider missing from this game are really taste things, i've wanted a spiritual successor 
 to united offense for a long time, and this isn't that but it is a great COD game and it spits 
 on everything Ghost recon and Tom Clancy, the story is better than anything ubisoft has done in 
 this generation, and the presentation/gameplay beats that brand too (so you don't remember GRAW 
 is a COD game in modern settings, complete with linear levels and scripted everything, the squad 
 control sucks why have it, i prefer COD's hands off they aren't stup! d approach)
  
  it s a 9.5 get it. unless your to into TF2 wait and get it when you are tired of TF2
  
  9.5 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zznn
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 12, 2007 9:49 am PT
Review:  (skip to bottom if you don't like reading) .
  
  This game is a total masterpiece, how can a game be as good as this!
  It combines un repetitive 
 gameplay and environments. Huge weapons selection with photo-realistic graphics. (I played it on 
 highest settings) .
  The only bad thing is this game is over way to fast. The ending actually is emotional. You fight 
 the ultranationalist Russians and Al- Asad's terrorists.
  This is something that is way to fun, the game has ragdolls, and object penetration. This is a 
 game to spend 50 $ on. The multiplayer is strong and competitive using a persistant ranks just 
 like in BF2. The bad thing is you may encounter for the n00bs and hackers and cheaters. Some minor 
 solid weapons bugs and cheap shots. All of that prevented me for rating this game a 10. 
  
  Overall this is game that gamers will enjoy . Just simply get this game and you will see for yourself 
 that this is a game that you will enjoy.
  
  Comments: ToTally aWeSoMe! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NiNtEnDo4eVa
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 12, 2007 9:52 am PT
Review:  First off, let me say that I have been playing COD since the original. The original was amazing, 
 I played in clans for about two years and loved everything about the game. COD2's campaign was 
 awesome, but after about a week of playing, the multiplayer grew dull to me. I skipped COD3, and 
 due to the overwhelmingly positive reception of COD4, and the fact that it's moved on from the 
 now stale WWII genre of games, I decided to buy it.
  
  This game has blown me away.
  
  CAMPAIGN:
  The campaign is short, sure. But no one in their right mind can deny how awesome it 
 is. The game has been polished down to the pixel. Though the graphics aren't the best, the presentation 
 that Infinity Ward brings is phenomenal. FPS veterans, I reccomend playing veteran. It will extend 
 play time substantially and increase the difficulty to a point where you feel like you're there. 
 It should also be noted that ragdoll physics have finally been added to singleplayer+multiplayer 
 modes (don't know if they were already in COD3 or not) .
  
  The difference with other COD games is that instead of switching from front to front to front on 
 three different occasions, you switch back and forth between the American marines and the British 
 SAS. There is a believable plotline to follow and it'll keep you playing for hours and hours. Other 
 than the length, the campaign will be one of the most amazing, if not the most amazing single-player 
 campaign you've ever played.
  
  MULTIPLAYER:
  What COD1 was known for was its multiplayer, and COD4 does not dissapoint. The new ranking feature, 
 as seen with most shooters these days, is a definate plus. The unlocks, challenges, game modes, 
 and online action certainly delivers a great multiplayer experience. My only complaint is that 
 there aren't any BIG maps, which is a little lame, but hopefully the community will work on some 
 bigger maps. 
  
  Otherwise, the online action is incredible and realistic. None of the guns dissapoint, and the 
 upgrades are worth playing for.
  
  Graphics:
  The graphics are pretty good, but they aren't breathtaking. COD has never been known for graphics, 
 and it still isn't. Still, the graphics are exceptionally good and the weather effects look excellent. 
 I originally thought the game was going to be DX10, but i'm not that dissapointed.
  
  Sound:
  Excellent sound presentation. If you have sorround sound, you're in luck.
  
  Gameplay:
 
  No suprises here, COD gameplay is in intact, more on the side of the original than any other COD.
 
  
  Overall, you can't go wrong with COD4. It is the best online FPS out there right now (sit down 
 Halo 3 fanboys) , and has an incredible campaign that you won't soon forget. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gear60
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 11, 2007 11:10 pm PT
Review:  That's right Call of Duty 4 is THE best First Person shooter in existence. It scores a perfect 
 10. Why? 
  
  The graphics are excellent. Not only that the games optimized SO well it runs smoothly on most 
 up to date systems at high graphics. Every part of the game makes you feel like part of the fight. 
 Don't read this just look at the videos and images of the game. That's basically as good as it 
 gets to the real thing.
  
  The story is also great. It's done so it makes you think about what happens with a bit of perspective 
 and terroism. And not only COD 4 houses the greatest moment in video game history. You'll know 
 when you play and see it. It's the most jawdropping and exciting moment in my last 7 years of gaming. 
 I'll give you a hint. It involves a bomb.
  
  The shooting here? Top Notch! Guns sound and feel like gun. Enemies are smart enough to put afight 
 and so are your allies who can act dynamically and hvae a bit of personality. You really feel a 
 bit when you lose your first squadmember.
  
  Multiplayer in this game is godly. I mean BETTER than Halo 3. The class and perk system is so well 
 balanced and creative they make the Halo 3 Forge seem nonexistent. The maps in Multiplayer are 
 also fitting for the different types of players from snipers to close up fights. 
  
  What are you reading this review for? A game that scores a 10 from me is a game that MUST be bought. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: iXBuRny
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 11, 2007 10:08 pm PT
Review:  I must say the demo did not do this game justice. I knew I had to have this game, since my favorite 
 game is cod1. I LOVE this game! The graphics are of course pretty kick ass, the game play is just 
 awesome. I fell in love with Multiplayer from the get go! I couldn't turn it off. I must say this 
 game is the best game that has come out in a long time. You won't be disappointed, and it will 
 keep you busy for quite awile. The guns are awesome, targeting is pretty right on also. I have 
 to definetly give this a score of 10, both for Singleplayer and Multi. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shadow_hosi
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 11, 2007 9:50 pm PT
Review:  Despite the obvious lack of Call of Duty's staple enemy, the Nazi army, CoD4 proves that they can 
 make a solid shooter in any point in history.
  
  The graphics are very nice, I haven't noticed any jaggies, though i haven't been looking for them. 
 buildings and enemies all look very nice, and the weapon models are spot for realism, once again.
 
  
  The Single Player is fun, lasting only 5-7 hours depending on how much time you spend on infinite 
 re-spawn areas. The story is well done, with some major twists that will leave you saying "Wtf 
 is this ****".
  
  The Multi Player is very, very, addicting, you start off only with a few basic classes, but once 
 you get up a few ranks you get to customize up to 5 classes, you only have a few weapons and have 
 to go higher in the ranks to get them all.
  leaving plenty of desire to play and play and play. There are even 2 through backs to CoD's WWI 
 origins, one being the Colt1911, this gun is still in use today so it isn't to hard to see it being 
 here. the other however, is the MP-44, the final unlocked weapon in the game. 
  
  There are a few new features, and some improved ones as well. Previously, on the infinity ward 
 CoD games there was no grenade return function, CoD4 adds this back like it was in CoD3. and the 
 'press * to climb over' is just about everywhere you would want to climb over. There is also sprint 
 and hold breath (sniper) back in all their glory. there are also things such as C4 and claymore 
 mines. these add a lot of ambush and counter-ambush options to the game.
  
  There are also spree-based off map support, like at 3-kill spree you get a U. A. V. re-con to tag 
 your enemies on your mini map.
  
  at 5-kill spree you get to call in an air-strike.
  
  and at 7-kill spree you get the mighty attack helicopter.
  
  The melee is also changed. rather 
 than you simply swinging your gun at your enemy, you do what must be done in close combat, and 
 lash out with your combat knife.
  
  The perks add a lot of customization for your MP classes. once you unlock them all you will be 
 able to mold your classes to what you see fit and to match your play style. 
  
  to put it simply: if your a fan of military FPS games this is a MUST buy. fan of the COD franchise? 
 this is a MUST buy. it is chaotic and realistic, except for the healing, and is going to keep you 
 entertained for weeks and months. and perhaps years, until CoD5 that is.... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Maveus
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 11, 2007 8:30 pm PT
Review:  Call of Duty has always been a World War II genre, yet that changed and for the better with this 
 game. Call of Duty 4 is the step that I feel many generic WWII shooter franchises should take, 
 World War II is played out, and it goes to show, with some effort, you can bring a series new life.
 
  
  Call of Duty 4 follows the footsteps of two main characters, one is a US Marine the other is an 
 UK SAS officer. The storyline is pretty good too as well, there are these two antagonists, and 
 both of them want to hurt the west. Your job as these protagonists are to stop both villains. What 
 evolves as a simple search and kill mission becomes much more, and the narrative moves at a very 
 good pace.
  
  The storyline is interesting enough, and the characters are pretty likable. I found myself being 
 VERY attached to my team-mates. Something I honestly never do in shooters, yet both protagonists 
 don; t exactly speak, but the team-mates you are with will make you care about them.
  
  The gameplay is pretty good, it is all heavily scripted, which is a bit of a downer, but the core-gameplay 
 is unique and just fun. The AI is pretty good, while the enemy AI does seem lacking, it makes up 
 for it with the numbers. The core action is very satisfying and the missions are just varied in 
 many ways.
  
  Sometimes you'll man a machine gun turret, the other you will go on an almost impossible sniping 
 mission. The levels are on the linear side, which is also disappointing, but it makes it almost 
 impossible to loose your way.
  
  I did unfortunately find a few bugs in the game, such as one where I had to restart the level, 
 annoying but nothing major.
  
  The game is pretty difficulty adjusted. I tried normal and I found that a little difficult, so 
 I found the easy setting to be adjusted to my skills. When first start the training mission also 
 gives you a good insight on what skill level is good for you, and there are many difficulty levels, 
 which increase replay value.
  
  The graphics are astounding. While mileage may vary on the computer you have, I had a pretty medium 
 range computer and the graphics look astounding. Everything is very well detailed, with plenty 
 of effects that make the environments look shiny and very nice. The smoke effects are very amazing 
 as well. It makes war come to life.
  
  I beat the game in around 7 hours. It is kind of short, but the entire campaign has enough variety 
 and surprises to have you probably want to come back a second time through. The game is fun enough 
 to probably come back maybe even two or three times, its campaign is honestly one of the most exciting 
 I've seen, ever.
  
  The game also has probably the most ingenious multi-player ever. It is class based, think counter 
 strike meets battlefield, but with RPG elements such as skill raising and different attributes. 
 Sometimes I found it hard to connect to games, but once a game is going, it just has soo many maps 
 and just variety that will keep you playing.
  
  
  This is one of those games that actually justify the 50-60 you spend on it. So in closing, I suggest 
 Call of Duty 4 as a great game that if you like shooters, you are bound to find enjoyment in.
 
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: vfibsux
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 25, 2007 6:00 pm PT
Review:  Reviewing the single player portion of the game here. First off, it is Call of Duty, if you have 
 played the past titles in the series you know what you are going to be getting here. You will run 
 through scripted levels, your squad will only advance when you find them waiting for you and you 
 lead them into the right area, only you can take out the enemy tank or helo for some strange reason, 
 and an endless wave of enemies will come at you until you advance to where you are suppose to be 
 on the map, you've seen it all before. Saying that.............. COD4 does it better. Even though 
 it is the same gameplay as the previous COD games, it is more entertaining. The graphics are an 
 obvious improvement, sometimes the atmosphere is photogenic the shadows, textures, and lighting 
 are so right. The AI is pretty much the same as previous COD titles, they run out into gunfire 
 for no apparent reason other than to be mowed down. As for your AI squadmates, as in previous COD 
 games they are invulnerable so no concern about them. 
  The highlight of the single player campaign for me was playing gunner in the C-130 Spectre Gunship. 
 Amazingly realistic if you have ever looked up the videos on youtube. The sniper level is great 
 too. 
  Overall COD4 is a entertaining experience, some may argue the SP campaign is too short, I think 
 it only feels short because it is so good it makes you disappointed that there is no more. Great 
 game, the single player experience starts slow but hang in there, you will be wowed.
  
  Edit: Changed to 10 after just finishing the single player campaign. What an ending, great game, 
 best I have played since I can remember. With all the talk about how short this game was I kept 
 waiting for my current mission to be the last one, but it kept going. I just don't see it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: busko_minajay
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 11, 2007 5:04 pm PT
Review:  Well what can I say, infinity ward does it again. Another amazing call of duty game. Finally stepping 
 out of the WWII genre IW has gone modern, and it has done so brilliantly. The single player puts 
 in the shoes of two soldiers from the USMC and the SAS. The game switches between the two soldiers 
 and you get to know their team.
  
  Gameplay
  If you have played previous COD games then you know what to expect. High intensity shoot the bad 
 guy fun. IW has done a great job mixing up the action with some sniper missions and vehicle sequences 
 along with the standard shoot your way to the extraction point or the capture a specific point 
 and hold it. Overall the gameplay was amazing; there was never a moment where I didn't want to 
 stop playing. Even the tutorial mission at the start was fun. If you've played a COD game before 
 then you know what to expect and you should get this game now! If you're new to the series now 
 is a very good time to get into call of duty
  10/10
  
  Graphics
  Infinity Ward has really stepped in terms of graphics. The detail in the buildings and the faces 
 of your enemies and allies is amazing. The detail of the world around you looks so realistic. The 
 smoke detail when your grenade explodes is amazing. Don't know what section to put this in so ill 
 put it here. The physics of the game is also amazing. Although you can't pick objects and throw 
 them at the enemy the way the enemies die when you shoot them is great. Multiple times through 
 the game I shoot at an enemy and as he falls to the ground his finger pulls the trigger and shoots 
 the walls around him as a he falls. Also the addition of being able to shoot the enemy through 
 thing objects like tables, chairs, some walls and metal sheeting is a nice addition. *spoilers* 
 in the bonus mission after the main game, you are put on a plane to rescue a VIP. It was so cool 
 to see 3 enemies drop dead after you spray the chairs with an entire clip *end spoilers* if you 
 have a low end system vie heard that the game has been optimized so that playing at a solid frame 
 rate won't be an issue. But if you do have a lower end pc then you're missing a lot of the gaming 
 experience.
  10/10
  
  Multiplayer
  Now that I've finished the single player missions, I'll be playing a lot more MP. From what I've 
 played so far the MP is a great experience. You earn experience points for everything you do. From 
 killing someone to just being in game for the whole round. There are several game modes but I haven't 
 tried them all out yet. I've been mostly playing free-for-all and team death match, both of which 
 are self explanatory. The experience points allow you to create different classes and gives you 
 more options in terms of which weapons you start out with. Not too sure on how many maps there 
 are, but I'm almost certain all the maps are from locations taken from the single player missions. 
 The detail and intense fighting carries over from the single player to the multiplayer. 
  9/10
  
  Replay value
  The replay value of the game will differ from one person the next. 
 Depending on your skills and difficulty level, you should be able to complete the game in about 
 5-6 hours. If you're a person who likes to 100% a game then there are laptops that you collect 
 to unlock cheats for the game. There is also an arcade mode where if you play single player missions 
 again you get points, and the highest points are recorded. Cheat mode and arcade mode are unlocked 
 when you play through the game once. The game is a little short compared to today's standards but 
 the several hours it takes you to complete it, will be some of the best gaming hours ever. 
  7/10
  
  Overall the game is an amazing experience that anyone into first person shooters should 
 get. Even if you aren't you should at least give the demo a try. Gameplay and graphics are solid 
 but the length of the game is quite short. Multiplayer is also an intense experience that will 
 give your hours upon hours of fun.
  37/40
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mogzsnet
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 11, 2007 3:21 pm PT
Review:  I will admit, when I saw that Infinity Ward was getting away from the World War II genre that made 
 the first COD an instant success, I was concerned. They'd put so much time and effort in to producing 
 an authentic and believable WW II shooter, that I wondered if they're be able to make the transition 
 to 60 years in the future. The answer is an overwhelming yes. They've created yet another stunning 
 game in my opinion, one that immerses the player in the act of warfare, this time on a modern level, 
 and they didn't miss a beat. 
  
  The game follows the series' usual multinational story; this time in the form of two soldiers, 
 one in the elite British 22nd Special Air Service Regiment (SAS) , and the other with the 1st U. S. 
 Marine Force Recon Battalion. The game flip flops back and forth between the two, and each character 
 is outfitted with different weapons reflecting both the Nation and the military unit they belong 
 to. In addition to the highly accurate weapon/equipment detail vis-a-vis the respective units, 
 you also get a taste of the personalities of the two Nations; the dry sense of humor of the British 
 and the "oorah, in your face" style of the Americans. When the shooting starts the game continues 
 to impress on an incredible scale. The fire fights are both intense and detailed. The enemy will 
 attempt to flank you by using effective fire and movement. Your troops will shout out enemy locations 
 and potential methods of dealing with them. Tracer fire both helps you identify where your troops 
 are and where the enemy is firing from. Bits of glass and debris will rush past you, and the snap/hiss 
 of rounds passing nearby is a good indicator that you should be seeking cover. While using night 
 vision, you get the accompanying IR laser to help you place your rounds on target. An excellent 
 addition to the game, is the ability to fire through "soft" materials; wood, sheet metal, and dry 
 wall. It is all so well done, that it's hard to give mention to every exceptional bit of detail, 
 lest this review become a novel. However, the moment that I truly discovered the sheer amount of 
 work put in to this game, was when I shot one of the enemy in the chest three times, and as he 
 spun around and fell, his finger twitched on the trigger of his weapon and he let loose a burst 
 of fire which stitched up the wall he was next to. I was awestruck by how well it was done. My 
 jaw dropped even further well in a later mission I was standing in the bombed out ruins of an apartment 
 building and I just happened to look to my left, where the fighting had moved past a few seconds 
 before, and I noticed something. There, on the ground, was a wounded enemy, and as I watched him 
 he lobed a grenade at me, which landed with a "thud" at my feet. I promptly hit the "toss back 
 grenade" button and threw it back at him, to watch him disappear in a grey cloud. It was astonishing. 
 The game also delivers on some spectacular scripted events, such as an American M1A1 Abrams putting 
 a 120mm round through a building to hit an enemy BMP-2 Infantry Fighting Vehicle. 
  
  When all is said and done, COD 4 offers an excellent gaming experience, not to mention excellent 
 potential for replay value as there is so much going on at once, you're bound to miss some of the 
 action your first time through. There are a lot of shooters out there, and many which deal with 
 the modern era, yet few get it as right, or as detailed as Infinity Ward's Call of Duty 4: Modern 
 Warfare. Buy this game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Noclippin
Rating: 6
Date: Nov 11, 2007 3:20 pm PT
Review:  Call of Duty MW
  
  This game genre has just been sucked dry, it introduces NOTHING new and it does NOTHING better 
 than other modern warfare fpss.
  The only positive thing i have to say about COD4 is the first mission in the campaign, it seriously 
 gave me the chills.
  The worst part about cod4 is lack of intervention.. its just horrible. Even though the game has 
 to be historical accurate its still a bloody game!
  Please be more inventive!
  Pro/con list:
  
  Pro:
  Great first mission
  Pretty realistic characters
  
  Cons:
 
  Weapons
  AI
  Voicing
  Story
  No new MP
  Maps
  Well.. all of it.
  
  COD 1 kicked ass, and from there it just went DOWN HILL. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fireballtwo
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 11, 2007 1:15 pm PT
Review:  This game really did blow me away. I was planning on waiting the extra week for Crysis, and argued 
 about Crysis being better, but after purchasing the game, my thoughts quickly changed. CoD4 fits 
 it's title, "Modern Warfare" Perfectly, giving you a taste of the most advanced and most impressive 
 modern weapons. The story is alright, it's basically about hunting down terrorist master- minds 
 through different viewpoints. It presents the story extremely well, with gruesome scenes and insane 
 firefights breaking out every moment. It took me 2 days, playing 2-3 hours each, to beat the Single- 
 Player on Regular difficulty. It's very frustrating at times, but just so satisfying once you get 
 through it. It's just like an awesome action movie... And i must say, i recommend CoD4's Single- 
 Player more than almost any other. 
  
  But... It is SURE as Hell not about just the Single- Player... You also receive a Multiplayer that 
 could be a game by itself, and still be one of the best games ever. The Multiplayer is AMAZING. 
 I probably won't touch CSS or AA anymore. You've got a very well designed rank system, which allows 
 you to unlock very well balanced, yet powerful upgrades or "perks" for your soldier, as well as 
 new guns. This offers a huge advantage for those who play a lot, but it still very well balanced 
 that i have been able to kill some of the highest ranking player at rank one. Alright, time to 
 break it down:
  
  The Good:
  -Good, challenging AI
  -Story keeps you playing
  -Multiplayer is very addicting and fun
  -Much more than just infantry combat- AC-130's, Helo 
 Gunner, etc.
  -Extremely cinematic
  -Graphics run very well on any system, yet still look fantastic
  The Bad:
  -Very frustrating
 
  - many areas of the game show much more dedication while others show very little
  -A lot of awesome scenes go unnoticed
  -Very little guns and weapons included, 
  -NO VEHICLES!
 
  Gameplay- 9/10
  Graphics- 9/10
  Sound- 8/10
  Value- 8.5/10
  Tilt- 9/10
  
  I do have to say the voice acting was top- notch, but the sound was a bit glitchy, and filled with 
 bugs. The weapon sounds lack a bit as well. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: daiceman917
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 11, 2007 6:45 am PT
Review:  I don't write reviews at all but this game was incredible enough to spawn me into writing a review. 
 Some of the levels are simply incredible. There are a few of the "hold this position against thousands 
 of always spawning enemies" missions but the other unique missions definitely far outweight it.
 
  
  Single Player (A-) 
  very short campaign but a few of the best missions ever in a FPS. (short campaign kept it from 
 A+ but the AC-130 mission almost boosted it into A+ territory on its own)
  
  Multiplayer (C) - very short levels as a single shot can (and does) kill you many times. Tough 
 to connect to servers. I love the challenge but it can take 20+ minutes to connect to a server 
 due to connection issues with the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gate131966
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 11, 2007 1:40 am PT
Review:  Infinity Ward has done it again. The Call of Duty series has always delivered fascinating gameplay 
 thanks to its sharp shooting, highly scripted (and chaotic) nature and amazing graphics. The move 
 to Modern Warfare hasn't changed the fundamentals of the series-what made it great before makes 
 it great here-but it's easy to see that leaving World War II behind has opened up a lot of possibilities 
 for Infinity Ward. The result is the best Call of Duty yet and an early contender for game of the 
 year.
  
  Call of Duty 4 tells one main story through the perspective of US Marines and British SAS soldiers. 
 The basic story has you finding out why Middle Eastern terrorists want to destroy you and your 
 kind so badly and something involving Russian nukes. Infinity Ward didn't tone down the melodramatic 
 moments, and perhaps there are just a bit too many, but Call of Duty 4 succeeds in making you feel 
 the impact of your actions.
  
  Call of Duty 4's 5-6 hour campaign (about twice that if you play in Veteran) follows Infinity War's 
 typical campaign format. The campaign has a number of linear, highly scripted levels where you're 
 usually following your squadmates and shooting down a number of enemies while the game throws more 
 and more enemies at you. Of course, Infinity Ward makes every minute extremely intense and there 
 are plenty of scripted moments that will blow your socks off, but in terms of structure it isn't 
 anything radically different than what we've seen before. The game does add in a stealth mission 
 and a helicopter ride where you're shooting down enemies from atop to combat monotony but you'll 
 find that everything is so well structured that you'll have a blast going through he game. Once 
 you beat the game, you unlock Arcade Mode, which lets you replay individual levels (or the entire 
 campaign) with new rules that give you points for doing certain things. It adds some replay value 
 to the game and takes a more lighthearted approach than the actual campaign.
  
  The gunfire in the game is as solid as ever. The game still lets you pick up grenades and throw 
 them back at your enemy, you still have access to a melee attack, and shooting Down the Sight is 
 still the preferred method of gunning down enemies. And of course, you still had your squadmates 
 helping you in the war that pretty much control themselves. The AI of your squadmates is a lot 
 better this time around, so you'll find that they react much like you would expect human players 
 to. You won't have to issue orders to them but they someone know exactly what to do. But there 
 are some subtle improvements, such as the fact that bullets can now go through thin material like 
 wood and scrap metal. It adds some additional depth to the game and makes it even more frantic 
 than it was before.
  
  But really, did the series' gameplay need to be revolutionized? Call of Duty 4 delivers the most 
 chaotic gunfire of any game. The game delivers a new "wow" moment more quickly than your brain 
 can process them. The initial sequence, where you're trying to escape a sinking ship, is one of 
 the most intense and hectic segments ever experienced in any game. Then the credits begin and remind 
 you that you simply witnessed an introduction. It gets better from there. The game is still highly 
 scripted, which can explain how it delivers the wow moments, but you'll also find that the on-field 
 AI is incredibly sophisticated this time around. They stay behind cover, flank you, coordinate 
 attacks, blow up cars behind you, and are generally ruthless in their quest to take you down.
 
  
  Call of Duty 4 has a full-fledged multiplayer mode. The game supports 18 players on the consoles 
 and includes 16 maps. All of the game's maps are wonderful and provide for strategic gameplay, 
 and never feel too small or too big. The modes include a number of objective-based modes, as well 
 as the standard deathmatch and team deathmatch. Suffice it to say that you won't be running out 
 of stuff to do for quite some time. The game offers class-based multiplayer similar to its predecessors 
 but while the multiplayer mode begins with predetermined classes, you'll gain levels that will 
 give you new abilities and weapons. As you progress, you'll also be able to design your own class 
 by shooting three abilities and your starting weapons. It does have the potential to make things 
 more unbalanced as more people begin playing the game, but Infinity Ward does seem to have developed 
 a number of counters to any possible balance issues.
  
  Infinity Ward's games are usually beautiful but they've one-upped themselves with this one: Call 
 of Duty 4 is one of, if not the, best looking game on any platform. The attention to detail is 
 amazing. The soldiers look simply stunning from their actual models, to clothes, and whatever they're 
 carrying. Then the animation just works. The environments are varied and vast, with plenty of great 
 textures bringing everything to life. The foliage deserves particular acclaim. This alone would 
 have produced a spectacular looking game but then you'll see the incredible explosions, astonishing 
 smoke effects, and quite possibly the best water effects yet. Oh, and it all runs at a steady 60 
 frames per second.
  
  The same can be said of the game's audio. The orchestrated soundtrack is especially epic and fitting 
 for a game of this nature. It sounds appropriate and captures the spirit of war very well. The 
 sound effects are also amazing, especially the gunfire, but you'll hear everything from grenades 
 rolling slowly towards you to enemies screaming at you.
  
  Call of Duty 4: Modern Warfare shows that you don't have to revolutionize a series to invigorate 
 it. The move to modern warfare has enabled Infinity Ward to deliver the most frantic, chaotic shooter 
 ever. It has also enabled the developer to create the best Call of Duty game and quite possibly 
 the best shooting game of the year. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: icepop4who
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 10, 2007 9:56 pm PT
Review:  Boys and girls, this is it. The best first person shooter ever is the newest installment of Infinity 
 Ward's Call Of Duty, Call of Duty 4: Modern Combat. This game looks, sounds, and plays amazingly, 
 so much so that flawless is not far from the truth. It is exciting, challenging, and satisfying 
 every minute playing this game. The winning formula here is a combination of great visuals, great 
 score, and a powerful storyline. You will get to play as a USMC marine and SAS operative for the 
 majority of the game, and if you encoutered this series before, you'll be happy to know that you'll 
 play as the then Lt. Price in one of the missions.
  
  The visuals in this game is just electrifying. The graphics include features such as glow, depth 
 of field, in addition to your usual assortment of features such as dynamic lights and shadows, 
 specular maps, and soft smoke (z-feather) . The textures are extremely sharp and uses a reasonable 
 amount of memory, which makes the game enjoyable without 512MB+ VRAM premium. There is one graphical 
 issue, which is that there are problems with specular maps on characters. The reflections are extremely 
 bright with this halo-like glow around every soldier. It does get annoying especially at night 
 scenes but the overall visual presentation overshadows its flaws.
  
  The sounds and music scores capture moods and effects precisely. The music, although not a significant 
 piece in first person shooters, has a tremendous impact in COD4. The mood is set pitch perfect 
 and you can really feel the war at hand.
  
  COD4 has revolutionized the single player experience. You will not only get to shoot bad guys on 
 foot, but also on a AC-130 Spectre gunship, a Mark 19, stand in the middle of a nuclear explosion, 
 that is just a experience that has to be played to appreciate.
  
  However, the downside of this game is that the campaign is quite short if the difficulty is no 
 higher than regular. It took me about 8 hours to play it through on hardened with a bad mouse. 
 But the strong multiplayers makes up for the cash paid.
  
  If you are a gamer and especially a FPS player, this is a MUST HAVE. If you think the demo was 
 great, the game is much better. If you didn't like the demo, you won't be disappointed by the game. 
 Do yourself a favor and buy this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Star_Wars117
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 10, 2007 7:41 pm PT
Review:  The graphics in Call of Duty 4 are simply outstanding. As the addage goes, A picture tells a thousand 
 words. Every trick in the techincal artist's book, has been thrown at this game, resulting in a 
 treat for the eyes, that delights at every turn. Edging on photo-realistic at times, while at the 
 same time, tantalising the player with glimpses at something beyond the ordinary. In the same way 
 "300" artfully blended the real, with the hyper-real, so does COD4. Just as with the visual elements 
 of Call of Duty 4, the audio does more than let you HEAR the battle, rather it puts you IN the 
 battle. Forget the graphics, forget the gameplay. Pop in a CD of this game's audio anywhere and 
 close your eyes. You'll actually belive that when you open your eyes again, you'll be in another 
 country, with a gun in your hand, and allies at your back. For as long as anyone can remember, there 
 have been a few tried-and-true examples of ease of use, and smoothness: A knife through hot butter 
 or a finely oiled machine. I submit to you, the reader, that the bar has officially been raised. 
 Call of Duty 4 is perfection in motion. The sights of your rifle will glide to the opponent's head, 
 like an ice skater across her frigid canvas, and present you with a deeply satisfying "X" around 
 your crosshair, when your shot hits it's mark. For every bit of structure that comprises Call of 
 Duty 4's Singleplayer component, two shots of "chaos" take its place in Multiplayer. The battlelines 
 eb, and flow; tides of water replaced by seas of warriors. Customization is the main attraction 
 here. There's nothing particularly new about picking what weapon with which to deal death and mayhem, 
 but "Perks" bring a whole new element along for the ride. Picking "Juggernaut" can decide whether 
 that killing blow is such a killer after all, and "Deeper Bullet Penetration" can ensure that anyone 
 caught in the sniper's crosshairs, is done: Body armor or not.
  
  Like a stone in the center of a glass house, Call of Duty 4 is as solid as they come, visible even 
 through the sea of transparent shooters that have cluttered the gaming conciousness. This is GOTY 
 Material.
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: UType
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 10, 2007 6:47 pm PT
Review:  The campaign for Call of Duty 4 is definitely NOT short. It is a well thought-out campaign FULL 
 of special scripted scenes. There are plenty of types of game play instead of just plain shooting, 
 like gunning in vehicles, stealth game play, and a realistic sniper simulation. I've been playing 
 this game for more than 5 hours now at a quick pace, and I've only played about half-way through 
 the campaign. If the campaign were longer, the fun parts would be further spaced out, making it 
 less exciting.
  
  Other things like visuals and sound are outstanding! Environmental design is awesome, with plenty 
 of variation. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: oflow
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 11, 2007 12:42 pm PT
Review:  I enjoyed the game. The single player is really fun has a good story and a few unique levels (like 
 the one with the thermal site) Only thing is is kinda short but its about the same length as the 
 other CoD single player games.
  
  After having played and got to rank 20 in MP, its getting pretty boring. The main problem is the 
 maps are too small and there really isnt too much new to differentiate it from CoD2 except its 
 set in modern day not WW2. The unlocks are cool and so is the shooting thru walls, but as far as 
 replayability goes I liked CoD: UO better than CoD4.
  
  All that aside, if the game had larger maps it would be probably the best game to come out this 
 year besides Opposing Fronts.
  
  If BF2 wasnt just a clusterf@ck of crappy patches it would still be better than this game just 
 because it has 64 player servers, larger maps and squad based combat. 
  
  CoD4 is worth buying if like FPS, but there really isnt much innovation here. But like I said, 
 if you like the CoD series, its definitely worth getting. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: trenchermanX
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 10, 2007 6:26 pm PT
Review:  it's not groundbreaking in almost any way, but playing a cod game you still expect to hear sie 
 germans screaming their heads off... got to admit it is good, i would def recommend. it starts out 
 with you having to go through an obstacle course, jump through few hoops, that sort of thing. the 
 gameplay is tight and if you have a high-end gpu (i happen to have 2) the graphics are mind-blowing. 
 in widescreen at 1920x1200 it looks amazing! but even if you don't have it under the hood it looks 
 more than decent at lower resolutions. with all these shooters coming out this month like crazy 
 i think you should take a look at this 4th installment (third on pc) of this amazing franchise. 
 cod still rocks even sans the nazis and let's face it, we've done ww2 every which way. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: browersr
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 10, 2007 6:00 pm PT
Review:  Frenetic action with a "24" feel. Familiar story, but told extremely well with some great surprises. 
 
  
  Check point save system can force some annoying replays, but for the most part there are enough 
 of them to keep the frustration down. Still, there is no reason to not offer a save anywhere feature. 
 I am playing a game, not watching TV. I will decide what experience I want and what I think is 
 tolerable to replay.
  
  Can be difficult at times to discern the enemy from a friendly. While this may be realistic, it 
 can be annoying in a game. Given friendly fire can end a mission and I think this could have been 
 handled a little better. 
  
  Ran smooth as silk with my Q6600 and 8800 GTS. Did not encounter any bugs in single player and 
 did not play multiplayer.
  
  If the single player were about twice as long, this game would deserve a 10. However, if you are 
 just interested in playing single player you need to know that you are paying full price to get 
 the length of an expansion. $50 for 5 hours is inexcusable. There were many ways this story could 
 have been prolonged without feeling like it was being prolonged. No one would have complained if 
 there were more sniper or arial missions as an example. 
  Given how much fun this game was to play and experience and I don't think you will find anyone 
 who felt the length of this game was appropriate. 
  
  Overall IW continues to make the best story based FPS war games. They had the best games with CoD 
 1&2 and 4 continues their excellence (sans length as mentioned) . I also congratulate them for getting 
 away from the WWII genre. As much as I loved those, that is really played out. MOH franchise, take 
 note... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bdever32
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 10, 2007 5:49 pm PT
Review:  Reviewing single player only:
  
  I'll admit I was slightly worried when I heard the game was only about 5 hours, but those worries 
 went away when I started playing. The action is so good in this game that you can't fault it for 
 being short. Any longer and they would have probably had to add some pointless running around and 
 things of that nature.
  
  The variety of missions really stand out in this game as well. You go from a ship on the ocean 
 to the desert to mountainous forests, and yeah you do all that in 5 hours. That's not to mention 
 the exceptionally cool missions in the AC-130 gunship and in Chernobyl. There were also a few "wow" 
 moments in the game that really surprised me, but I don't want to spoil that.
  
  To sum it up: good story, great action and great graphics (if you have the hardware to handle it, 
 but looks good even on older hardware) .
  
  Highly recommended 
::::::

::::::
UserName: smonacoli
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 10, 2007 5:37 pm PT
Review:  I can't believe all the 9s and 10s reviewers are giving this game. We paid 50 bucks for this game 
 and it's shorter than most $20 expansion packs! 
  How can you give a game that is less than 5 hours long 9s and 10s??? It's absurd. Yes, the graphics, 
 game play and sound are very well doneprobably the best to date.... but the length of game negates 
 that good stuff. Do you really want future games to be like COD4? As long as the game looks good, 
 you can make it as short as you like. It's Ridiculous. I sure hope this isn't the future of gaming. 
 What is the expansion pack going to consist of, a one hour mission? While quality is more important 
 than length of the game, it's no excuse for a making a game THIS short. I don't care how well done 
 the game is... if it's over just when you are starting to get into it, in my opinion, it's just 
 not a very good game.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: silvioniall
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 10, 2007 3:52 pm PT
Review:  Ok , first of all , buy this game.. it's worth it.
  The single player's story is well creative and you always want to explore whats going to happen 
 after any mission & as you maybe read on other reviews , there are alot of unexpected cool and 
 nice moments like for example mission 1 ; while the ship is sinking... very interesting part.
  
  I play the graphics Low-Medium , and it really is nice! I bet that full high graphics results 
 in much nicer. I rate the graphics 9.6
  
  The game-play is good , since it's the same like the previous CoD's. Including the 2 new Game-types. One 
 of the great new additions is the Perk system and the the rank/challenge system. This makes the 
 game challengingly and , it makes a point for playing , not like the previous CoDs , with no any 
 record or rankings. As I said before there's this 'Perk' System. This is when you unlock certain 
 'perks' to use while creating custom classes. Some examples of Perks are : Increases Health . Fast 
 Reload . & Last Stand (You get a chance of shooting pistol before dying) and many many more!
  
  Ok , the sound... about the sound , i rate it 6. The guns shoot like plastic guns. Even the sniper 
 , lame sound. The explosions are well done , regarding the sound.
  
  Anyway , what else? I think that's it! Yes I bought it 46Euroes... It's a high price but it's worth 
 it trust me ;) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: renofury
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 10, 2007 3:48 pm PT
Review:  My first impression of this game was WOW thou my machine is 2 years old it still played and looked 
 great, no slow downs or what so evers in xp at 1400 res but in vista it run much slower. Was so 
 amazed by the graphics that played the ship level like 5 times because liked the effect of shooting 
 in a moving ship, looked so realy and cool. 
  
  Most level where incredibly designed with various routes you can take to flank the enime although 
 you have linear objectives you can reach your objectives many time in lots different routes. 
 
  
  The Gameplay was good but not as good as Tom Clany Games, in early levels your team mates just 
 shoot the enemy just before you do it realy took my nerves and ended to start sprinting before 
 my team to reach the enemy before them. There is no choice of equipment you can take with you in 
 COD missions and there are only a dozen of weapons in game, including bazookas and snippers. Another 
 thing is that cod doesnt have a take cover button so to take cover it would require you to use 
 like 3 or 4 buttons for leaning, take different crouching positions (3 buttons on pc) this totally 
 didnt feel natural.
  
  Sound effects and music where good, but sound mapping to speakers didnt seem to work right, thou 
 using a XIFI fatly1ty sound card and logitech thx speaker 5.1 speaker set, sound didnt seem ever 
 to come out from the center speakers even when shooting, and yes my sound system fully work on 
 any other game.
  
  Conclusion COD4 is great fun but is not a masterpiece it has lots to improve in areas like gameplay, 
 story, and weapons, but still is by far the most nice looking shooter in the market. And only second 
 to GRAW series in this genre
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: sativo
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 10, 2007 3:46 pm PT
Review:  This game rocks. There's no end to the pursuit of perfection so there's always room for improvement, 
 but this game definitely deserves better than a 9.0.
  
  The graphics, sound, effects, movement, etc. are second to none! The terrain, scenarios, and overall 
 storyline are immersing.
  
  Only thing I would do different is add more gore (ex: would be nice if limbs would get torn off) 
 and better reflex action from gun fire. Sometimes it felt a bit stale when shooting a gun -- like 
 there was no kick to it at all.
  
  This is exactly what a good fps should be.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: sheeda_blade
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 10, 2007 3:52 pm PT
Review:  Call of Duty 4is an FPS with a story and a soul. It builds up the characters beautifully and so 
 too the story. Don't get me wrong here the story is anything but new, however the telling of that 
 story is beautiful. And though it might be a tad short but its like one the movies that you would 
 like short rather than prolonged and boring.
  
  The Single player campaign will suck you in and leave you wanting more whether infinity ward does 
 come up with an expansion pack or not is too soon to ask the question. But the games does show 
 a great potential for multi player and here is where it redeems itself. 
  
  The graphics are amazing and the damage is rather believable even with my beat up rig AMD 3200+, 
 1 GB RAM and 6800 GT the game ran at 800X600 but with everything on including 2x Anti aliasing. 
 Which is kinda impressive the score and the sounds are dead on everything from the cracking of 
 automatic weapons to incoming jets and close air support and not to mention the fact that Harry 
 Gregson Williams was on board for the score.
  
  Overall the game does a fantastic job of immersion and though many of you will end it rather quickly. 
 But it won't be an experience you would soon forget. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Fathomglow
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 10, 2007 2:52 pm PT
Review:  UPDATE: After playing multiplayer for the last few days I've come to a few conclusions. The newly 
 expanded multiplayer component of COD4 is a great addition to the already great COD formula. Battles 
 are still hectic, nicely paced and just feel right, bridging the tenuous gap between run and gun 
 shooters and the more tactical paced shooters. The newest and most noticeable gameplay change of 
 course is the fully customizable class system and the rank and reward systems. Players start off 
 with just the basic classes like rifleman, sniper etc. but after gaining a few ranks can start 
 to customize their own classes and start earning weapons upgrades. The raking system as well as 
 weapons upgrades all incorporate well. Though upgrades obviously give you an advantage, new players 
 with the basic weapons can be just as effective and it ultimately comes down to skill to win on 
 the field. The ranking system is quite extensive, but its easy to earn points and given a few hours 
 you can be well on your way to collecting most of the weapons. Overall, COD4 multiplayer on the 
 PC has to be one of the great multiplayer shooters of this year, with compelling gameplay and a 
 feature packed system.
  
  NOTE: With the exception of the lean system, the Xbox 360 and PC version are almost exactly the 
 same.
  
  Like many other long time Call of Duty fans, I was wary of what Modern Warfare would mean for the 
 series. Call of Duty had become the quintessential WWII shooter of its time, becoming the FPS that 
 all other WWII shooters would be measured against. When Activision/Infinity Ward announced that 
 the series would be leaving its WWII roots for a more modern themed iteration, many of its fans 
 were naturally worried. Thankfully, Call of Duty: Modern Warfare puts many of those fears at rest. 
 Slick modern military design, cinematic flair and the same great gameplay that Call of Duty is 
 known for come together to create a compelling and worthy addition to the series. As the name suggests, 
 CoD 4 (As I will refer to it from now on) takes place in a "Modern Warfare" setting. The classic 
 Garand, Thompson, BAR and horde of Nazi's from the previous series has been traded in for modular 
 battle rifles and Russian Ultranationalists. The change for the most part is cosmetic of course, 
 aside from a few upgrades the same great gameplay is alive and well. CoD4 does a great job of integrating 
 what made the series so good with the necessary changes that the new theme requires.
  
  The gameplay in CoD4 for the most part remains unchanged from previous iterations, which considering 
 how good the series has been isn't a bad thing. Controls are virtually identical to most FPS games 
 on the market and veterans of past CoD games will be quite at home. CoD4 features the same semi-tactical 
 but still forgiving gameplay that have been a CoD staple and it works just as well in the modern 
 setting as it did in WWII. Along with the new theme comes a new modern set of weapons and gear, 
 and CoD4 does a great job on both the weapon models, design and sound. Sound is particularly good, 
 everything from the muffled taps of silenced weapons to the crack of the more powerful sniper rifles 
 are satisfying and really give weight to the weapons. 
  
  Graphically, CoD4 is just slightly above CoD3 and on par with most next gen games on the market. 
 While it may not be groundbreaking, it's certainly nothing to scoff at. Models are nicely detailed 
 and animations are fluid and natural, both your enemies and allies look great. The levels in CoD4 
 are nicely done as well, though some levels show amazing possibilities while others come off as 
 bland. Like the previous CoD games, the single player campaign in CoD4 is a great mix of large 
 scale battles, scripted events and stylized gameplay. Though somewhat short, the campaign is compelling 
 and immersive. The campaign puts you in the shoes of an SAS commando and a US Force Recon Marine 
 fighting in a number of different locales, from a cargo ship in the Bering Straight, a fictional 
 small Middle Eastern country and deep into war torn Russia. The story certainly has potential, 
 but is never really fleshed out. There are numerous cinematics and news story style narration throughout 
 the campaign, but none of them really tie in the story. Then again, most of the background story 
 is just an excuse to put you in the action anyway, so it's not much of detraction.
  
  Multiplayer wise, CoD4 has perhaps the most full featured multiplayer component of any CoD game 
 thus far. Aside from the wide variety of maps and game modes, the most dramatic addition is that 
 of a ranking system. These ranks allow access newer weapons and weapon upgrades as well as special 
 abilities. While these upgrades are definitely a good incentive to keep playing online, they do 
 sometimes skew the balance toward veteran players. Fully upgraded players definitely have the advantage 
 over newer players, which might turn off some newer players. Though the ranking system is surprisingly 
 lenient, and it won't take long to earn those upgrades. In the end, CoD4 is a great addition to 
 the CoD series. The change of theme in CoD has thankfully not affected the high caliber of the 
 game. The tight gameplay, visuals and design come together to make a great game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kokoko
Rating: 4
Date: Nov 10, 2007 1:12 pm PT
Review:  Extremely boring and repetitive and a bit annoying. The single player mode was not "short" it was 
 just awful. It gave me the feeling that I was just playing the tutorial for hours. The graphics 
 are nice, but there is no solid story, no purpose. Just shooting, killing the same people again, 
 and again, and again. Really. This must be one of the few games I uninstalled before finishing. 
 I can't understand the enthusiasm. The only story present in the game, is about some Arab dictator 
 that must be killed. Silly, trite story, and a bit annoying. You never know why you kill all those 
 poor people, while at times listening to hard rock! The whole feeling is like a battle simulator, 
 but without any elements of strategy. Now that I think about it, this was definitely not a game. 
 
  I don't know about the multilayer though, that must be better, but I doubt that as well, since 
 the weapons are totally boring too! All the same, with subtle differences. I would really enjoy 
 much more playing again DOOM 1 than this crap.
  -S 
::::::

::::::
UserName: beckoflight
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 10, 2007 10:56 am PT
Review:  Like allways the story in CoD game is arround 2 different characters form to different armies & 
 that is a great way to mix them togheter until the end when both armies or organizations do missions 
 togheter .... the story ... well you know its about terorism but well its told with such a involving 
 way .. that you start wondering if not Tom Clancy double did it ! 
  Anyway talking about the gameplay its not changed in controls & or in the ways you enter a fight 
 practacallyy the whole scripted A. I. ... both friendly & enemy creates a SUPER INTENSE expierence 
 1one .... just 1once ..... an expierence that will only last 5 hours ... backed up by 1one of the 
 most greates engines i have seen & taking you all around the wolrd & evan cernobil ! The multiplayer 
 is well improved but the single player campin is dissapojnting only becauseits to short .... & 
 the A. I. kind of retarded when it comes to aiming .... you can stand still in front of an eneme 
 & he still miss'es you .... but stll a super solid expierence ... try it ... rent it in fact & 
 only if your defently like the multiplayer buy it ! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thethnktnk
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 10, 2007 10:11 am PT
Review:  Call of Duty 4 is a great game in it's own right, but unfortunately offers little that is new or 
 innovative. Graphically the game is amazing, with outstanding character models and environments. 
 It complements its graphics with amazing sound effects, that truly make you feel as if you were 
 in the middle of a war. Unfortunately, the storyline they use to move you through the game is forgettable. 
 Although this was true for the previous CoD games, everyone knows the history of WWII, so there 
 the storyline wasn't so necessary. Furthermore, there is little replay value to be had for the 
 single-player mode, so you will probably spend most of you're time playing the multi-player mode, 
 which I'm happy to say I find quite fun. The RPG elements that they added in, allowing you to get 
 "perks" seems a little out of place, but fortunately doesn't really hurt the multi-player experience. 
 Overall, Call of Duty 4 has an exhilarating, but short campaign, but makes up for the brevity of 
 the single-player mode with an exciting multi-player aspect. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rickcosta
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 10, 2007 9:52 am PT
Review:  Call of Duty 4: Modern Warfare Call of Duty 4: Modern Warfare Call of Duty 4: Modern Warfare Call 
 of Duty 4: Modern Warfare Call of Duty 4: Modern Warfare Call of Duty 4: Modern Warfare Call of 
 Duty 4: Modern Warfare Call of Duty 4: Modern Warfare Call of Duty 4: Modern Warfare Call of Duty 
 4: Modern Warfare Call of Duty 4: Modern Warfare Call of Duty 4: Modern Warfare Call of Duty 4: 
 Modern Warfare Call of Duty 4: Modern Warfare Call of Duty 4: Modern Warfare Call of Duty 4: Modern 
 Warfare Call of Duty 4: Modern Warfare Call of Duty 4: Modern Warfare Call of Duty 4: Modern Warfare 
 Call of Duty 4: Modern Warfare Call of Duty 4: Modern Warfare Call of Duty 4: Modern Warfare Call 
 of Duty 4: Modern Warfare Call of Duty 4: Modern Warfare Call of Duty 4: Modern Warfare Call of 
 Duty 4: Modern Warfare Call of Duty 4: Modern Warfare Call of Duty 4: Modern Warfare Call of Duty 
 4: Modern Warfare Call of Duty 4: Modern Warfare Call of Duty 4: Modern Warfare Call of Duty 4: 
 Modern Warfare Call of Duty 4: Modern Warfare Call of Duty 4: Modern Warfare Call of Duty 4: Modern 
 Warfare Call of Duty 4: Modern Warfare Call of Duty 4: Modern Warfare Call of Duty 4: Modern Warfare 
 Call of Duty 4: Modern Warfare Call of Duty 4: Modern Warfare Call of Duty 4: Modern Warfare Call 
 of Duty 4: Modern Warfare Call of Duty 4: Modern Warfare Call of Duty 4: Modern Warfare Call of 
 Duty 4: Modern Warfare 
::::::

::::::
UserName: eliteking
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 10, 2007 8:33 am PT
Review:  The story line is extremely well written and this game delivers everything it promises like a scripted 
 shooter should. You are constantly changing areas and scenerios so it never gets repetitive. Graphics 
 look very good and there are many visually appealing effects and explosions happening around you 
 during the game and cutscenes to increase immersion. I only wish the game was longer, but it was 
 still a decent length. Overal I'd say this is a must play for anyone who likes first persion shooters 
 or just a very solid game. I was a sceptic when I first saw the COD series was taking a turn away 
 from their usual WWII games, but I was very impressed with this game. Videos during loading times 
 create seemless transition from level to level so you are never bored or waiting. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: elitedarkfalcon
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 10, 2007 8:25 am PT
Review:  Graphics: Even if my PC is half a year old, playing it on Medium, it still looks amazing. The textures 
 of the ground to the textures of clothes look like they're real. Not much else to say except great 
 graphics for a fairly old PC. God, I need a new one...
  10/10
  
  Sound: Everything sounds just like it should. Weapons sound different from one another, voice acting 
 is great, if played on surround sound during a high intensity firefight, you'll go crazy because 
 you'll think you're really there.
  10/10
  
  Controls: There's some more bindings to do but who cares, 20 minutes in and you'll be very comfortable.
 
  10/10
  
  Story: It's so awesome. It make you care about the characters. It has some "WTF!!! Why!!" moments. 
 But its another good vs bad template. but who cares? It's always been like that and will always 
 stay with us. It's short but lots of replayability because its awesome
  
  Multiplayer: Its very fast paced if there's a lot of people in the server. Ranking and unlocking 
 system is fun. *I don't want to type anymore* But sometimes, people grenade spam and you'll be 
 like "WTF!!!" You'll have to try it out.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: sohaib_bacha7
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 10, 2007 8:24 am PT
Review:  As far as im concerned, Call of duty 4 is the best out of all the other call of duty games. the 
 intensity of the game, the realistic graphics, the stunning storyline etc all these elements stand 
 out in Call Of Duty 4. There Are New features In COD 4 which Are Absent in other Call of duties 
 eg: Throwing Back The Gernades.
  The game Is Very Intense As You "Jump Right In The Boots Of "An American/English Soldier, Waiting 
 ot Recieve Orders For HQ, Ready For Action!
  
  The Graphics Of The Game Are Very Realistic. COmpared To CAll Of Duty 2, I Think The Shadows Are 
 Much Softer And Realistic In This Game. Also, The Physics Are Dramatic Which Gives It An Overall 
 Impression.
  
  The Storyline Of This Game Is Very Dramatic And Effective. In COD 4, You Start Off As A British 
 Soldier And Later On, You Are Introduced To The American Side. In This Game, Even Though Your Character 
 Changes, The Story Still Proceeds As A Whole, Which Makes A Lot More Sense.
  
  Finally, In My Opinion, Cal Of Duty 4-Modern Warfare is The Best Out Of All Other Call Of Duties. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kastrato90
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 10, 2007 7:47 am PT
Review:  I have only played the Demo. I have to say that it feels almost the same as Cod2. They just added 
 some things like the fact that u can throw back the grenades (which was an available feature on 
 most of the Cod 2 servers online) , the bullets through walls which is cool, and of course the Amazing 
 Graphics.
  However, the gameplay is a little childish and linear. There is not so much freedom in the game 
 (closed doors, very defined maps, only specific routes u can follow) . In other words, despite the 
 great number of bad guys to shoot and the intensity of the game , the scale of the game seems a 
 little small. Finally, I expected the environment to react more to the activities.
  But that is only the demo. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Igac89
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 10, 2007 6:10 am PT
Review:  I just got this game, and i find to to be extremly awesome!
  
  The Graphics :
  The works and looks amazing even on my x1600 ati graphics card and 1gig of ram and the good ol' 
 amd 3000+ athlon. Everything is on medium to high on 800x600. 
  5/5
  
  The Sound:
  The sound is great it gives you an awesome adrenalin rush. It's prerfecty synced with the action
 
  5/5
  
  The gameplay:
  Nothing exetionaly new but some nice additions!
  4/5
  
  Conclusion:
  Just buy it!!! It is worth it. The only bad thing about it is that it is short, but 
 i like it when its short i dont like when a game boors me at the end. It's short but effective
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: tk9780
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 11, 2007 10:36 pm PT
Review:  Try writing an empirical review about a game when you've spent the last six hours getting creamed 
 continuously from every direction is almost impossible.
  So first thoughts, COD4 is just another over hyped bunch of crap produced by a dollar grabbing 
 large corporation's. 
  Why no not exactly! The maps are rather small and game play does at times make one feel more like 
 been a passenger then a conductor, game play does at times seem to advance according to player's 
 position on the map rather than the action on the ground, like COD2 you can easily spend hours 
 fighting over the same road junction as wave after wave of enemy NPC spawn seemingly right out 
 the ground.
  The sound and graphic are both extremely good and realistic feel of the weapons is a lot better 
 than other FPS titles, are they true to life, no! Ok the game makers may have attempted to simulate 
 the weapons to a realistic degree, but the simulation can only take realism factor so far. Within 
 the contents of the game, they feel about right, as a taste to firing the real things? Why off.
 
  COD4 worth buying, simple answer is yes, is the short SP mission a disappointment, after some 
 thought, I'd have to say no, with respect to the game makers as we game players demand more and 
 more details within every map, but we still expect a good ten days plus of game play. 
  My old man who is new to world of PC gaming would like to have seen more player aids at lowest 
 skill level. Indicators to show which NPC is talking, a marker to point out recommended positions 
 for the player during squad combat situations.
  There are a few rather negative points brought over from COD2, but possible the most annoying is 
 that regardless of the game hype about you playing as a member of a squad/Unit, you'll soon come 
 to realise that your so called 'squad/Unit' NPC are as about much use as a 'Wax' made fireman's 
 axe. .
  Last thought, I expect the lack of 'Wirer cutters, Binoculars, and Smoke grenades' are a result 
 of the same equipment shortage that seems to bug every modern army. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ghazy
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 10, 2007 2:12 am PT
Review:  Presentation:
  very realistic and intense! 
  
  Graphics:
  the graphics depend on what kind of video card you have. if you have a nvidia 8800, good for you! 
 youll have great looking game! ( i'm using an 7950 GT and running it pretty good :) 
  
  Sound:
  very uniqe sound. it very very hi quality sound that will make you feel like your there. 
 
  
  Gameplay:
  not much different from the other CODs, but i love COD's gamplay. but storyline is short.
  
 
  Lasting Appeal:
  Awsome! 
  
    the graphics will blow u away! i really thought that this game was gonna be another COD with 
 your partners yelling the enimies name 24/7. BUT i was tottally wrong. if you have a 360, ps3, or 
 PC go and buy this game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bruca
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 10, 2007 12:54 am PT
Review:  I was very impressed by the gameplay , graphics and the story which was great. The only "bad" remark 
 i have is that the game is too short... i think i finished the missions in 7 hours. Game is optimized 
 very good... runs great even on budget systems. Great storyline kind of "nowadays", and the sound 
 gets you immersed in that world. A game which everyone should play even if they are not fps fans... 
 Wonderful experience...
  
  
  
  All i can say is: this is the best fps in it's category. Great work as always Activision. Maybe 
 we'll have an expansion or COD5 like really soon? Hey i can dream can't i? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: neonblueshadow
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 9, 2007 11:33 pm PT
Review:  Note: Everything here are opinions and observations of a single perspective . I've even summarized 
 my main system assets so you can better judge my technical opinions.
  
  The Good:
  The single player campaign was awesome. Well scripted as always, within plenty to do within the 
 scripted boundaries. The game's intensity is better than ever, with action being insanely intense 
 ( and sometimes very frustrating) on the harder difficulties. The variety in gameplay is very refreshing. 
 The AC-130 gunner level and the car chase were my personal favorites. The squad AI is good in general 
 (with a few exceptions) . Weapons have a smooth feel, and the bullet penetration system is very 
 fun (sometimes it feels its too forgiving) . 
  Multiplayer modes are fun, hardcore mode in particular.
  
  My rig:
  A64 3800+, 3GB Ram, 7800 
 GTX (1)
  The game looks awesome, I love the lighting, and the ambience in general. Smoke effects are better 
 than previous CODs. textures seem low, although my texture settings are set on automatic. The game 
 seems fairly scale-able since my friend with a 4 yr old rig plays it fairly smoothly, with less 
 graphic detail... 
  
  The Bad:.
  Squad AI seems very passive at times, and this is always when you feel you need them the most. 
 (this was on second hardest difficulty) . The bullet penetration systems seems a little too forgiving, 
 but I give IW lots of points for putting it in the game. Certain scripted battles are just plain 
 evil on the harder difficulties and they add considerable amounts of hours to the campaign if you're 
 determined enough =P... on the flip-side its very satisfying when you finally pass these areas, 
 because you know you did it with skill. (this game rarely allows space for luck, you either shoot 
 through the enemy or you re-spawn and try again..... all my attempted cheap work arounds failed 
 miserably..) . Arcade mode is very average in comparison to the original single player campaign.
 
  
  Conclusion: 
  The Only reason I bothered writing this review is because I loved the game so much. It is the best 
 game experience I've had all year in such a short span. and I've played all the big shooters and 
 such ( I love shooters) . Also, the Demo isn't too reflective of the best parts of the game... I 
 can think of many other levels they could've used as a demo. All in all, its a must buy for those 
 who love shooters, and for those who love well done scripted moments and hands -on cinematic gameplay. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DBROWN9
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 6, 2008 5:47 pm PT
Review:  This is shorter than my usual many reviews because I cannot tear myself away from the game.
  
  Graphics are absolutely superb and run flawlessly. The story is gripping. This is a heavily 
 scripted single player campaign;. It is in fact the best ride you could ever imagine in a game. 
 It is jaw droppingly good. Some parts of it seem to add a tactical element reminiscent of splinter 
 cell or SWAT 4 - You really have to think before making your next assault. The cut screeens are 
 amazing and link the chapters of the game beautifully.
  
  This is smooth fast-paced action that you will not want to put down. Lock yourself in a room and 
 play your way through the campaign, and then play it over again - it really is that good.
  
  The SP campaign has a checkpoint save game system. Anyone who has read my many previous reviews 
 will note how much I hate checkpoint, but in this game it is so quick, it is seemless and the checkpoints 
 are so frequent, it doesn't really matter.
  
  Generally the graphics are fantastic (more so in single player) , and run smoothly at max settings, 
 weapons are nicely balanced and there is more of a "realness" to the game rather than the arcade 
 action of battlefield. The character models and skins are simply outstanding.
  
  Sound is what you would expect and it's nice to hear lots of Arabic chatter which adds realism 
 to the game. I feel like theres something missing however which I cannot quite put my finger on, 
 but it certainly isnt as good as the sound in BF2.
  
  Multiplayer is a rehash of Counterstrike v BF2. Unfortunately there are no vehicles to drive, or 
 aircraft to fly. It is the same old infantry combat and in my view that is why BF2 / 2142 retains 
 its title as the best war FPS ever made. However, it does have rankings and a well implemented 
 unlock system for weapons and abilities. Nevertheless online play is still very addictive and will 
 keep you going long after you finish the single player campaign
  
  The gameplay types are quite varied and recognisable from previous COD games. The graphics in MP 
 don't seem to be as good as in SP. Also movement of characters can sometimes be quite awkward. 
 For me MP is let down by the lack of radio commands.
  
  Despite the fact this is obviously cutting edge gaming technology graphics wise, it is fast, beautiful 
 and I have not had a single crash or hiccup playing this game on max settings. To be frank, other 
 game developers need to take a step back, have a long look at this title to see how it should be 
 done.
  
  Overall this is an absolutely fantastic game, and I would go as far as to say one of the best games 
 ever made and I am keeping my fingers crossed for a quick expansion pack.
  
  
  Graphics 10
  Sound 9
  Stability 10
  Single play 10
  Multiplay 9.5
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: doomwarrior235
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 1, 2008 1:06 pm PT
Review:  Call of Duty has always been one of my favorite games. The games play is intense and fun, and it 
 really makes you want more levels after you are done with the game. The multi player is awesome 
 and fun, and it is one of the best muti player games out there. Everything that was good in the 
 other Call of Duties has been improved in Call of Duty 4 Modern Warfare!
  
  For the first time, Call of Duty goes modern. That means new levels, new enemies, and a ton of 
 new guns to play with. In Call of Duty 4 you play as two sides. The Americans and the British. 
 You are fighting the Middle East, and Russia. Both sides are fun, and every single mission is a 
 blast.
  
  In the American levels, you are mainly running through streets getting in these intense fire fights. 
 In the British levels there are a few more styles of game play. Both sides have these really cool 
 weapons to play with.
  
  Some of the new styles of game play are in one mission, you are a British sniper creeping around 
 taking our guys. You have to play this mission stealth because if you get caught and have to fight 
 a few soldiers, you will have to use a lot of different strategies to take them down because you 
 have really weak body armor on. There is one level where you are in a helicopter and you are shooting 
 at soldiers in the ground, which is really fun. One cool new game play element is that there is 
 one level where you are in an air plane and you to support troops on the ground. You have to destroy 
 enemy soldiers on the ground and watch as your troops move by. It is really cool because when you 
 blow up a bunch of troops, you can see their bodies flying after the explosion. One other cool 
 level is when you are boarding an enemy ship with your squad, and you have to move through the 
 ship shooting enemy soldiers. Most of the other levels are moving down streets with you squad and 
 getting into these intense battles.
  
  The enemy A. I. has been updated so the enemy is smarter and is able to figure out your strategy. 
 Your squad A. I. has also been updated to. Your squad thinks a lot better, and they do not seem 
 use less on the battle field. In fact your squad will actually save you can some times when you 
 are in trouble.
  
  The single player in Call of Duty 4 is short but there are a lot of cool levels, and some cool 
 new game play modes that you will play it through a few times more.
  
  The multi player in Call of Duty 4 is some of the best multi player that I have ever played. There 
 are a bunch of maps and a bunch of upgrades that you can get and you rise in rank, like in Battle 
 Field 2142. The upgrades are really cool but they do not make it really hard to kill some one if 
 you are just starting out. The multi player in Call of Duty 4 is worth the whole package.
  
  The graphics in Call of Duty 4 look really close to photo realistic. The environments look 
 amazing, the soldiers look amazing, and the guns and vehicles look beautiful. The graphics look 
 really good even when the resolution is turned down all the way. I turned it up and then it looked 
 even better.
  
  The sound in Call of Duty 4 sounds amazing! Guns sound really good and vehicles sound really good, 
 and your soldiers screams and voices sound really good! The explosions in the game sound really 
 realistic!
  
  If you even just kind of like first person shooters, or like Multi player games, then you must 
 play Call of Duty 4! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cahsew
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 9, 2007 7:39 pm PT
Review:  This game is one of the games ive been waiting for (crysis) and it truly lives up to the hype of 
 the series (excluding Call of Duty 3) . The single player rivals any other game, thats right I said 
 it, and the graphics are amazing. Overall if you paid a TON of money on your pc or have a console 
 and are reading this you are missing out on what could be the best story of the year. With a revolutionary 
 storyline exquisite multiplayer this game stands out with the pack of other games and it makes 
 you wonder "could this be my destiny in life, to play this one game?", and the answer is if you 
 like good games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: glitterkill
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 9, 2007 11:46 am PT
Review:  Stunning visual quality and sound with great gameplay. Too bad this game took me a total of 8 hours 
 to finish. SHORT! I mean REALLY short. It took me a little over 8 hours to actually finish this 
 game. I wanted so much more from this game as it must be the shorted Call of Duty game to date. 
 As with all other Call of Duty games there is a great and action packed car chase scene that is 
 fun to play over a couple times. The game is very immersive and INTENSE. It is definitely worth 
 playing but you may want to wait for the price to drop a little if you don't play on playing this 
 online. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Grantelicious
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 9, 2007 11:32 am PT
Review:  Now COD4 has had amazing reviews and will probably get Game of the Year from a few official reviewers 
 but i don't understand why really. The core game has not changed since COD and while it does some 
 things differently, the game has just become very boring. Now COD series was based of WW2 before 
 and it seems like every WW2 game has the same boring linear scripted gameplay, like MOH aswel. 
 I just always thought WW2 games were boring but it's become clear now that it's just the gameplay 
 these companies seem to use, it's just old and not fun anymore. 
  
  Now COD gameplay got boring around the time of COD, they released COD2 and many people were fedup 
 with WW2. However games like COH were released to show that WW2 isn't boring when you bring new 
 gameplay into it. COD4 is set in a modern war theme which is great, i love it, however it feels 
 esactly the game as the other games.
  
  The Single player is only about 4 hours long and thats really really short even for a FPS. Also 
 the only level which i seemed to like was the Chernobyl one because it had the most variety and 
 the most fun. The rest just seemed like they came out of COD2 and reskinned to tell you the truth 
 and i was really fedup and quite often even though it's only 4 hours long, i'd feel tired and bored 
 an finding that i had to force myself to complete it. You play as 2 different guys one from the 
 Marines and one from the SAS, i like playing the British cause i'm from England. It adds a nice 
 touch when you hear some British humour in the game too. The stories do link in together but really 
 the story isn't good and you'll find yourself forgetting about it and not really caring. One great 
 thing about the story is it's not all like the good guys win, they do show the bad guys quite often 
 getting one up on us.
  
  Now the multiplayer is what most people buy the game for it seems and the Single player has just 
 become a added bonus to them. However i don't see what's so good about the multiplayer, it's pretty 
 much the same as previous COD games, i ddin't really enjoy their multiplayer. The differences are 
 the leveling up system which i feel ruins it myself because i want levels out of games, it seems 
 like they're putting it more into more games. The problem with levels is it makes everything linear 
 and have less choice also ruins it from skill absed to level based. I would prefer to be able to 
 choose any weapon setup you want, kinda like counter strike. Also theres no vehicles and it's very 
 retro, which isn't always a bad thing but we've had the same multiplayer game 3 times now, it's 
 getting old, if i wanted this multiplayer i would have installed COD2, just a shame they didn't 
 do something completly new.
  
  The graphics of COD4 are good but not as great as everyone says, it feels very much like it's set 
 on the COD2 engine with better lighting. I'm not going to complain because it looks better than 
 most, however with other games coming out like Crysis it'll look very dated compared.
  
  The sounds are all good and i really loved the sound effects on the helicopter mission where your 
 using thermal looking at a monitor to bomb the enemy on the ground. The radio voices seem all really 
 good and so do the weapons and the voice acting and the vehicles. So the sound is probably the 
 high points and that goes for the music aswel which is top notch.
  
  
  So for a game which plays pretty much like COD i'm quite bored of the style of gameplay and if 
 you didn't like the multiplayer of COD then you wont like this one as it's pretty much the same. 
 The guns feel real light aswel which puts me off but atleast it isn't as bad as BF2 lol.
  
  
  I'd say buy the game when the price drops to $20 because it's a good package but i'm just very 
 tired of the COD gameplay. It's a good game and well polished, don't get me wrong but it's faults 
 lay with the same old same old feeling. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mrt0m
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 9, 2007 10:11 am PT
Review:  This game has changed my mind about scripted non free romeing games. Outstanding. And multiplayer 
 is far better than Halo 3. This is a game you can pick up and play for 5 minutes if you wsh but 
 is very hard to put down after that long. Story is fairly standard but told beautifully. It has 
 a good globe hopping plot and is very immersive. Campaign length is actually quite short but could 
 be described as a 5-7 hour epic movie and you will probably want to replay many of the levels if 
 not replay the whole campaign again straight after completion. Ultra-hyped games usualy dont live 
 to expectation, this game does not have that problem. Nearly didn't buy, so glad that I did. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Knightsoul_1
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 9, 2007 8:55 am PT
Review:  Excellent sp campaign, great graphics and awesome gameplay make CoD4 a winner.
  Oh my God, and the multiplayer is crazy: you will love it as I do. Perks and ranks are great: it 
 will keep you play until your eyes bleed.
  CoD 4 is now rightfully part of gaming history: playin' it you'll see how much love the developers 
 put on this piece of digital art.
  Wanna play a grat sp game? you'll have it. Or perhaps like me you are a mp addict? CoD will make 
 you scream in joy.
  Just do you a favor and go buy CoD 4 !!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mrshickadance
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 9, 2007 8:37 am PT
Review:  FANTASTIC very fun fast paced amazing graphics needs more maps of varrious sizes add more maps 
 to challenge tactics and snipers, great gun selections, nice leveling system not complex at all. 
 a must have for any call of duty owner and any one who just loves smashin faces ( on a game none 
 of u freaks who hate life and listen to slit ur wrist music haha) so in one word to some up this 
 game i must just say AMAZING. on the single player side of things the AI is very good compared 
 to most. the allied men actualy stack behind doors and breech doors more accuratly. even the enemy 
 is more real (sometimes they are over agressive) but over all very nice AI. kinda short single 
 player though 
::::::

::::::
UserName: OtakuRay
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 6, 2008 8:46 am PT
Review:  New Battlefield. In Call of Duty 4: Modern Warfare we will incarnate two soldiers throughout a 
 conflict of world-wide scale. We will alternate the missions of a member of the British SAS with 
 those of an America Marine; in a wonderful example of narrative episodes, simple and excellently 
 treated. The game transfers us to a contemporary time at which several governments are being overthrown 
 by rebellious groups, and a nuclear threat extends with himself. Our rol, of course, will consist 
 of releasing hostages, participating in special operations or help to take back cities. But COD 
 4 surprises until in the treatment of it, in principle routine, history that has taken a much more 
 adult look. We will attend an explicit spectacle of violence, and not only by the deaths that we 
 cause, if not by it hard of some of the cinemas scenes and by the realistic character that the 
 situations have. From the fantastic first chapter on board of the boat to the din of the last mission, 
 through the impeccably executed scene of credits, one of best and the most impressive ones that 
 we remembered in the years to come -, Modern Warfare becomes a prodigious roller coast of emotions 
 and arguments turns that will take us from a side to another from Europe to the Middle East, with 
 abundance of surprises and epic moments... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ZG77_Schnell
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 9, 2007 5:59 am PT
Review:  The did a fairly decent job of making this game. The graphics are incredible, game play is above 
 par, the different type of maps are a nice change.. and you dont have to expend a full clip to take 
 one person down!
  
  However.. the maps are way to small for anything that involves 20 players or more. You can barely 
 move around and get a good postion, without someone spotting you right off the bat and laying waste 
 to you. The uav, airstrikes and gun ship are cool additon but so far the only way I have seen anybody 
 be able to call this stuff in is if they just sit and camp.
  
  Rank progession is similar to BF2, however you dont get to pick which upgrade you want, its just 
 kinda handed to ya and you make the best of it. For example... at lvl 10 or someplace close to that.. I 
 recieved the sniper upgrade... bad part is.. I never play sniper.. not my style.
  
  The only way to make this game a 9 or possibly a 10 is they happen to release much larger maps, 
 that allow some type of tatics and fits the amount of people playing on it. At this points most 
 of the encounters are spray and prey.. or nade spam. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Axsuul
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 9, 2007 1:50 am PT
Review:  Call of Duty 4 truly covers almost all aspects of modern warfare in a single-player that was short 
 but sweet and extremely satisfying. Having played the game in Hardened difficulty, I wasn't able 
 to experience the shortness of the game that most were experiencing since Hardened takes longer 
 to beat. Regardless, the story in Call of Duty 4 is believable and engaging. The game has a very 
 polished feel to it and the debriefing videos are very well done. The visuals are beautiful, character 
 models are extremely detailed, and environments very well done. Notice I am not trying to give 
 away anything about the game -- just my experiences. Overall, this game should be played by anyone 
 who at least mildly enjoys first person shooters. This game deserves an expansion and a longer 
 single-player campaign!
  
  I haven't been able to play multiplayer at the time writing this review. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: aryax242
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 8, 2007 11:53 pm PT
Review:  After playing multiplayer for about 20 hours so far all i can keep thinking is this game was extremely 
 well though out, the gameplay blows other FPS's out of the water. I never get bored of the blood 
 splattering, cars exploding rockets with vapor trails wizzing past me. Frag grenades can be throw 
 back at your enemies, guns are extremely customizable, you can setup your character with perks 
 that allow for special moves like dropping a frag grenade when you die, or laying on the floor 
 wounded using your hand gun.
  
  Lots of maps for a new release, very detailed interactive maps, getting kill streaks allow you 
 to use airstrikes. Just so much detail in this game its so far above anything i've played so far. 
 They did an excellent job in molding the COD engine into this awesome peice of art. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: soccaking12562
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 8, 2007 11:38 pm PT
Review:  this game is the best PC game out and has uper good graphics i updated my PC for this game and 
 other next gen PC game mainly this game
  
  
  very good gameplay nice wepons, nice vehicles. super graphics nice sound cod4 modern warfare has 
 also great online but i think its better than halo 3 it kicks it ass halo 3 is like 1,2 but has 
 better graphics back to cod4 you should buy it if you a PC gamer. every thing in the game is good 
 i like the levels its good the cod series change to modern cause the wwii was pissing me off cause 
 it was repeating it self so this is a MUST BUY fora PC gamer and other console (360&amp; ps3)
  
  
  THIS IS FPS GAME IS THE BEST FPS OF ALL TIME (SO FAR) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rdhnightwolf
Rating: 2
Date: Nov 8, 2007 11:31 pm PT
Review:  I bought this game mainly for Multi-player. Not Single. Single Player is a ton of fun, but Multi-Player 
 on the other hand is just a huge joke. Run n Gun spam fest. There is no skill needed whatsoever 
 in this game. Aiming is pretty much pointless, and you will find a ton of maps where you spawn, 
 die, spawn, die, spawn, die, spawn, die, kill one guy, die..... it's ridiculous. Nade spam ruins 
 the game. To make matters worse, they stick in this bullcrap UAV, AIrstrike, and Helo backup junk. 
 Half the time you can't see anything because the area is shaking so bad. n00bs just run around 
 and shoot you through walls because they can see you are there on the UAV.
  
  Bunny hopping is a major issue along with dolphin diving. This is a 12 year olds wet dream. Spam, 
 no skill, and hop like a queer Yep, all great for a 12 year old. The ranking system is the lamest 
 piece of crap i've ever seen. People with no lives get all the good stuff and then smoke the new 
 people making it completely unbalanced. CoD was a great game. CoD2 was even better. As far as i'm 
 concerned, this game is the worst of all of them. They needed to stick to what worked instead of 
 reinventing the wheel. Can't wait for assassin's creed to come out so i can put this pile of **** 
 in the bin to collect dust. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Maxx_2T
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 8, 2007 10:28 pm PT
Review:  First person military shooters rank as my top genre. I'm critical. Code of Duty 4 was by far the 
 best game I've played. Mix sophisticated missions, accurate weapons, constant fog of war, and storyline 
 that is plausible, and you have the new benchmark for FPS.
  
  There are missions that are simply riveting. The highlight of course is crawling through a field, 
 in camo, with an entire enemy unit and support tanks going past you, just a few feet away. It was 
 by far the most intense gaming moment that I can remember. For fun factor, nothing comes close 
 to the air support you provide friendlies -- the cockpit and mission control chatter is realistic. 
 The impact in using one of the three guns to blast away the enemy is thrilling. Because of the 
 arcade mode, I've already done that mission several times. It delivers every time.
  
  This is a must play for anyone who does military FPS. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thunder350
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 8, 2007 9:18 pm PT
Review:  Call of Duty 4 is here. This is the third game in the Call of Duty franchise created by developer 
 Infinity Ward. While many felt that the Call of Duty series was going no where, Infinity Ward decides 
 to take a very smart and rewarding path. Why stick to WWII? WWII is an over used genre. Even though 
 the few games to come out for that genre have been great. It felt like everyone knew what was bound 
 to happen before playing the game. Call of Duty 4 is the most intense shooter out to date. In my 
 opinion.
  
  Graphics: All throughout the game the graphics are stunning. The glow on the models, the high detail 
 in the environment, models, and weapons draw you into the experience. The graphics do a great job 
 in making you believe that you are really in that battle. The animation is superb and the use of 
 ragdoll is not needed. Of course there are minor let backs. Some of the details up close may not 
 look as impressive as others, but those are few and far between. A. I : Impressive all around. They 
 use cover when needed, throw tons of grenades, and even try to flank you at times. Occasionally 
 there is the one brave soul who decides to run toward while being shot at from all sides. But nothing 
 serious at all. Your squad works great in saving your neck and telling you the status of the battle 
 field. Enemies will yell out if their comrades have fallen or if they need support. The developers 
 did a great job on making you believe your actually fighting soldiers.
  
  Sound: The sound is to superior for the review. Buy the game, blast the speakers, and you'll know 
 what I'm talking about.
  
  SinglePlayer: While only about 5-6 hours on the normal (which I played) difficulty setting. Those 
 hours are nonstop action and tension between you and the world inside the game. It would've been 
 nice to see more hours put into the game. And maybe a different ending. Also, everything is basically 
 through FIRST PERSON. Even ****SPOILER****** The death of a president is all played through first 
 person *****END SPOILER****** The most intense COD singleplayer.
  
  Multiplayer: 16 maps, very customizable settings, and challenges put on top of that makes this 
 multiplayer a great addition to the game. If it was not for the impressive deep multiplayer, the 
 game might have not scored so well. The multiplayer has a full on stat/scoring system based on 
 numerous things going on during multiplayer. You can customize your class, change your weapons, 
 unlock new weapons, camouflage, and also Perks. Perks, are advantages that if you unlock, you can 
 use on the battle field. Such as, pulling out a pistol when shot down to blow some shells into 
 the enemies chest just before dying. Or dropping a grenade everytime you die. These additions are 
 impressive, but nothing to huge to change the outcome of the battle. There are challenges in the 
 multiplayer that require you to learn the skill of the weapons in the game. Have fun and see you 
 out there.
  
  OVERALL: The strong compelling singleplayer followed by the deep and impressive multiplayer makes 
 COD 4 the game to own. Yet there is no reason for the singleplayer part to be so short, half the 
 time of most games. But the multiplayer does make up for it. The photo-realistic graphics are impressive 
 and next-gen. Buy it, play it, love it. As I said for COD 2, if you are a fan of the COD series, 
 or just a fan of shooters in general, this game is a MUST buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: madgame23
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 8, 2007 8:31 pm PT
Review:  Single player is fun, its a ride from beginning to end. However multiplayer is a unique experience, 
 the game limits you on your load out. Without perks you only get one nade and special nade. limited 
 to 2 to 3 clips max with no way of anymore unless you are lucky enough to find a dead guy with 
 your gun, and still survive. The game is too limiting on its options and its a game where it promotes 
 camping and hacking, try just sitting at high points and sniping the whole game. The hacks are 
 the usual, like wall and aimbot. Well thats my story and im sticking to it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ubulbirol
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 8, 2007 7:36 pm PT
Review:  Im usually not one to judge a game by the reviews that it gets or the hype surrounding it. When 
 I picked this up on launch day (i loved the original CoD and wanted to try this one) i was expecting 
 another CoD 2 with a slightly better multiplayer and new weapons. I was someone right since it 
 turned out to be CoD2 but on steroids! The multiplayer experience is brilliant and all that you 
 would expect from infinity ward. Im really glad i have invested in this game (single player was 
 short but its only there to prep you for the multiplayer) and if the last two CoD's were something 
 that you have enjoyed, with no doubt, get this game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: paulomello2006
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 8, 2007 7:29 pm PT
Review:  What can I say about a game that brings a real and amazing graphics, immersive sound and perfect 
 gameplay?
  
  Its so simple... This is perfect.
  
  COD 4 show the potential of new Unreal engine, shows realistc graphics, models and effects.
  
 In my opnion, this COD4 is better than Crysis, because in Crysis you don&acute; t have a real war 
 experience, but a hi-tech combat experience and its so far way from real world. I played Crysis 
 Demo before... and now I&acute; m playing COD4 and this game is very... very more interesting than 
 Crysis, because beyond the nice graphics (its the only thing that Crysis has of showy) COD4 brings 
 a real and full action war experience.
  
  Call Of Dutty 4 is the best of '07 for me... and will closes this year white Golden Key. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: scvido
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 11, 2007 10:07 am PT
Review:  well well, who would've thought the CALL OF DUTY games would leave WWII behind eh?
  
  this is a very surprising game!
  
  Graphics - The graphics aren't really what i call Next Gen, 
 infact even with everything maxxed out @ 1280x1024 and 4X AA the game just while providing impressive 
 lighting and shadows, some textures look almost too consoley like the first mission, teh ocean 
 looks crap.
  
  the animations though are great! and the characters look really well, ragdoll also is well done.
 
  
  8800GTS 640MB + Core2Duo E6550 2.33ghz + 2GB Ram, game feel smooth even with everything maxxed 
 with only some lag during big firefights or when there's too much smoke but nothing major, kudos 
 to the developers.
  the game requires a fairly good PC though and supports SLi.
  
  Audio - i rate the sound 10/10 and it is an incredible experience, from the music to the voices, 
 weapon sound and everything else is just excellent.
  nothing more to say.
  
  Gameplay - well here the game takes an all new meaning, at times you feel as if you're playing 
 a BETTER version of GRAW2, this time Call Of Duty went modern and gone are the Nazis, now you fight 
 real terrorists and i can assure you the war you'll see here is absolutely fantastic, the action 
 is top,
  normally i'm reserved when it comes to FPS because but this one deserves praises.
  
  i don't want to ruin it for you, but you must experience this game for yourself, it is a wonderful 
 experience.
  
  sure a couple of niggles in the controls and a bit of stupidity from your team sometimes is normal 
 and no game is without bugs, however stability is great didnt have a single crash or else.
  
  you really feel part of a team for the first time in a COD game.
  
  Multiplayer : no comment, 
 didn't try it sorry. (yet)
  
  Conclusion : THIS IS A MUST BUY!
  
  get it, enjoy it. highly recommended. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kyilmaz
Rating: 3
Date: Nov 8, 2007 6:05 pm PT
Review:  I've played BF2 and BF2142 alot and think those games are incredible. But I'm also looking for 
 other good games (there is a dearth of them) . Having bought a few that have disappointed, I looked 
 at the COD4 videos, review, user reviews and played the demo. I did a careful review to not waste 
 my time or $50.
  
  The demo was pretty good- you needed to use some strategy. The Gamespot review was really good. 
 The user reviews were mixed but mostly high and a lot of 10's. So i bought the game and gave it 
 a try.
  
  And, I was disappointed. It seems like Activision didn't do gamer testing with feedback or this 
 is the style of game that the gamer testers/activision likes.
  
  CONS
  
  In multiplayer , the maps are very small. MOST INCREDIBLY a point based game (750) can literally 
 be over in 70 SECONDS. You have someone who has ranked really high (beta player?) and they sit 
 there with there powerful weapons slaughtering the other side and getting 150-200 points . ALso 
 they know where to position themselves to spawn kill you. I played a game where the game took about 
 50 seconds, none of my teamates could get out of a room- were slaughtered and someone on the other 
 side got alot of points.
  
  If this game were changed alittle, it probably could be good. In the demo/review it said if you 
 kill 3/5/7 guys you could call in an airstrike, attack helicopters, etc.
  
  Unfortunately , I was killed quickly after getting any of those bonuses and couldnt use them
 
  
  I found my strategy became to spawn, going prone, waiting for the enemy to come around a corner 
 to kill them just as they had done for me. As soon as you move you have a distinct possibility 
 to b e killed. THAT IS NOT A GOOD STRATEGY- FIGHTING GAME. You should be able to move, use some 
 strategy (the best part) and develop methods of winning. IN THIS GAME YOU MOVE 10 FEET AND YOU 
 HAVE A GOOD CHANCE TO BE KILLED. BETTER OFF GOING PRONE WAITING TO KILL ENEMYS WHO ARE WANDERING 
 AROUND LOOKING FOR YOU.
  
  I found enemys at spawn sites killing me as I spawned.
  
  In some maps you spawn near/next to the enemy - what can you do? On some maps an enemy gets in 
 a second floor building and snipes or shoots as your team comes around killing everyone.
  
  THE WORST IS THE QUICKNESS OF THE 750 POINT GAME. 50-80 SECONDS? WHAT KIND OF GAME IS THAT? THEY 
 COULD PROBABLY INCREASE THE POINTS TO 4000-5000 so you could have some playing time.
  
  Then, after the 50-80 second game , they dont even use the same map so you could have a quick second 
 or third game. You have to wait for the next map to load 3-4 minutes
  
  SO that are the points I have to make.
  
  Thought I'd try to save you $50 if you think your 
 getting something as an alternative to BF2142/2. Your not. This is a deeply flawed game. If a fan 
 of it could explain whats so good I would welcome that.
  
  The game is not even close to the things you can do in BF2142/2. So I guess I have to wait for 
 BF3 or Bad company. Quake enemy territory also didnt give a reasonable alternative to BF. Hope 
 this helps you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Simechak
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 8, 2007 5:18 pm PT
Review:  Okay, so in all seriousness, Call of Duty 4, in my opinion, is the best shooter so far ever released.
 
  
  Yes, it's that good. I was expecting it to be more of the same ole same ole, but boy was I wrong.
 
  
  The single player game, although short, is the most epic, satisfying single player FPS experience 
 I have ever had. The Ghillie suit level where you run around Chernobyl was practically better than 
 the entire game of Stalker by itself.
  
  And the Multiplayer? It's godly. It takes the modern tactical gameplay feel of excellent games 
 like Counter-Strike, Rainbow Six, and GRAW, and melds it with a persistent advancement systerm 
 that is better than Battlefield's, and comes out with the most amazing online system I have ever 
 seen or played.
  
  You have every conceivable game mode you could ever want, and can play it in any way you want.
 
  
  You want Team Deathmatch? Fine, play it standard, or old school (where pickups are on the ground 
 like Quake/Unreal Tournament) , or hardcore (where you have no HUD, can use only iron sights to 
 aim, and die VERY easily) , or whatever custom combination of anything you like.
  
  Sabotage is an excellent play mode. You can play it either like CS, where one team needs to bomb 
 a site or 2 and the other have to defend, or you can play where the bomb is in the middle of the 
 map, and both struggle to get the bomb and bomb the other side.
  
  You have you classic Free-for-all deathmatch, team deatchmatch, king of the kill, and many other 
 excellent game modes.
  
  Every gun feels exactly right. The sound, the soundtrack, the graphics, the effects, the physics, 
 are all awesome. The game properly calculates how each gun could really fire a bullet through different 
 surfaces. Buddy standing on the other side of some cinderblocks? If you have the right gun you 
 can shoot him, if you have a weak gun, you can't. It's not like CS where you can only shoot through 
 wood.
  
  If you haven't gotten the point buy now, I find this game HIGHLY praiseworthy. I thought it was 
 going to be more of the same, but instead it turned out to be the best FPS I have ever played.
 
  
  It is my opinion that this is the best game I have ever played EVEN CONSIDERING the Crysis Beta 
 and SP Demo, and all other FPS that I have played (all of them) .
  
  If you haven't played this game yet, you are missing out on somethign truly fantastic. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mayganey
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 8, 2007 2:36 pm PT
Review:  I have been playing video games since I was 3 years old and I can say, until today I never thought 
 that a video game could give you a sense of realism. but I can tell you this game brought me to 
 a point of optimism that GAMES ARE BECOMING REALITY . playing this game was hours and hours of 
 fun. Digging your way through the exciting challenges and the realism of the game, makes it one 
 of the best choices of all time. the sound synchronization and effects gives an even more real-feel 
 to it.
  ONE OF THE BEST 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Raven
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 8, 2007 2:20 pm PT
Review:  Call of Duty 4: Modern Warfare some would say is a cop-out of the Battlefield 2 name with the whole 
 Modern Warfare title. Actually, it may be true but in all reality who really cares. Infinity Ward 
 really did good i applaud there efforts for this game. Just like with the previous theme, World 
 War II, COD 4 stays true to its nature of being a gritty, teeth grinding, tongue chewing FPS. In 
 most FPS game you have a set mission and the environment is not that great, but not COD, COD has 
 always been there to twist that concept into reality. Everywhere you go, everything you see, something 
 is happening, airplanes flying over head, helicopters drilling houses with there guns, enemies 
 on every floor emptying clips on you. You.... will not escape. The Single player campaign, if you 
 will, is not that long as the others i'll give it that much, so thats the down-side. The up-side 
 is that it'll make you cry when you're done just for the sheer entertaining value it has. Yes, 
 you're doing the same things going on missions behind enemy lines, fighting your way through buildings 
 and cargo ships. Though the one thing COD 4 has that its predecessors did not have is the amount 
 of fun aspects there are to this game. In the previous COD's they had fun missions where you drove 
 a tank or manned a big bulky machine gun or sniped a few unsuspecting soldiers. In COD 4, you got 
 that, but thats small potatoes, they got you repelling down walls sneaking through troop filled 
 fields in camo, manning rocket launchers, stinger missiles and my personal favorite... manning a 
 grenade launcher as your helicopter gives ground support. So again, the single player is extremely 
 entertaining and it does so with such a convincing story that you just get engrossed in it.
  The Multiplayer is fun too, you have air strikes, helicopter help, everything a growing soldier 
 could need. Though there's a price, the price of being good enough to get those tactics. It's true 
 you can choose to call in airstrikes or call in your apache to help you out but you have to kill 
 enough people in a row to do it. Other then those two new additives the multiplayer isn't that 
 much different then any other FPS multiplayer.
  Now i would go on a tandem on how awesome the graphics are and how detailed they made the characters 
 and the environment and for the most part it'd be true. Though, whats a game without a little qwerk 
 here or there. The graphics are awesome that is true, but you will see moments where they leave 
 a little more to be desired or the actions don't quiet match up. You'll see those moments and they 
 are hard to miss but its also not enough to where you see them all the time. So to come to the 
 conclusion i gave this game a 9.0 because of the graphical qwerks and the oddly short single player 
 game. Though don't let these judgements prevent you from buying this game because if you don't 
 buy it, you've just been a traitor to your country. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Chooch-A-Doo
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 8, 2007 1:34 pm PT
Review:  This game is awesome!! Sure the SP is short, but it's so well done that I can forgive Infinity 
 Ward for lack of time it takes to complete the game. Besides, you can only kill so many terrorists 
 moving room to room before it would get boring. The Multi-player is where this game really shines, 
 in my opinion. Unlike BF2 you don't see unusually long loading times between rounds or maps changes. 
 There seems to be more than enough unlockable items and perks to keep me interested for a while 
 and plenty of server options to keep the online play fresh. I would say that the MP is near perfect 
 in comparison to anything released that I've played and I've played my fair share. I don't want 
 to hear any Crysis fan-boys telling my how much better Crysis is going to be. Wait for it to be 
 released, then write your review, then look at it again in a couple of months and review it again. 
 It isn't just going to be how the game walks and talks at release but how it's going to stand the 
 test of time. I think this game will do just that because they didn't go over the top with system 
 specs that might prevent some older systems from running it and running it well. Crysis may have 
 overdone the graphics which may make it a spectacular SP experience but might leave much to be 
 desired with MP.
  
  In the end -- It's a must buy in my book, besides by the time you get tired of playing this game 
 the average joe will probably be able to afford entry level DX10 cards AND they may have all the 
 bugs worked out of Vista. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pidow
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 8, 2007 10:45 am PT
Review:  The action can last forever if you play it just right. Many ways to play a level, except for the 
 one that involve time. Getting use to some of the things involved in game play does not take long 
 to master. If you don't kill the dog's right off it may get a little tricky applying the melee 
 key a the right time to prevent your death was a little getting use to, however, once mastered, 
 a piece of cake. Meeting the times in the game is tricky, some times one must just not try to kill 
 everyone in sight and just try to meet the deadline. Their are other levels that will fill your 
 need to kill everything in sight. The fun never ends and I found myself repeating a level over 
 and over, to find other ways of completing them. I have started the game over more than once, the 
 game will keep you wanting more, and more, forgetting about the time of day or night, just continual 
 play. This is one of the best games I have ever played and the best Call Of Duty ever. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SplinterCellSC2
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 8, 2007 9:30 am PT
Review:  Man am I glad I am a scorpio! This has been an awesome month for games and with every new release, 
 it gets better! All I have to say is COD4 blew me away from the moment I fired up the demo until 
 when I fired the first rounds down the virtual range.
  
  This is probably THE modern combat sim I have been wanting for a long time. No doubt the GRAW and 
 Battlefield Series are fun and engauging to play but just about every scene in COD4 could be made 
 into a framed work of art!
  
  With Crysis and UT3 coming out in the next couple weeks all I have to say is... Happy Birthday to 
 ME!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ulsd2002
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 8, 2007 9:26 am PT
Review:  Is it short, yes it is. However, that's about the only negative I can say. The game is optimized 
 to run good on just about any run of the mill rig and looks better than anything else out there. 
 The game play is as intense as anything you've ever played. The story is shallow at best but who 
 needs it. From the minute you start playing it's non-stop action. If there were some slow down 
 periods they could have stretched the SP into 7 hours. I've played just about every good FPS for 
 the last 15 years and this one is a classic. Thanks Infinity Ward for doing what most publishers 
 won't... optimize for the PC. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HiddenVirus
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 8, 2007 4:21 am PT
Review:  it's in new age gaming .... very good ....... But as any Call of Duty fan can tell you, the people 
 at Infinity Ward are skilled storytellers and masterful scenarists. It's because of this that Modern 
 Warfare finds itself in the company of movies like Black Hawk Down, rife with intense portrayals 
 of serious and complicated situations that, though perhaps not entirely realistic, still convey 
 to the rest of the nonenlisted world how war might feel: completely f***ed up. The premise is loosely 
 based on several volatile political situations on the other side of the world: A bloody coup occurs 
 in an unnamed Middle Eastern nation that is fed up with Western influence and perceived imperialism. 
 A Russian ultranationalist offshoot is trying to influence the outcome and use the Arab state's 
 upheaval as a distraction for more nefarious and immediate plans. It's as much CNN as it is recent 
 seasons of 24 -- events and timelines obviously exaggerated for effect. The story unfolds from 
 an unapologetic us versus them, and they are wrong perspective, with little time spent on the larger 
 philosophy of war. And that's fine, because it's ultimately a story about how soldiers execute 
 their orders: efficiently, without question, with no room for pulpits. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rockatanski
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 8, 2007 1:44 am PT
Review:  You want a longer experience on Call of Duty 4? Set the experience level to VETERAN. Be a man, 
 not a pimp. Do yourself a favour and give this game a go because it is worth every cent regardless 
 of what I think anybody says. I have NEVER to this day and age seen graphics on a game that is 
 this good and fast. EVER. Sure, we got Crysis around the corner but hey, seriously - this is the 
 best thing out there right now. At least in this genre. AI is incredible. Sound is incredible. 
 Graphics are obviously incredible. If you update your video card drivers, you WILL get the framerates. 
 Unreal 3 engine is the best engine in the world right now, and this game proves it. Anyone who 
 reviews this as an ok or a bad game is an idiot. They either have the warez version or they have 
 no idea how to install drivers. My PC is normal and I would say I have the middle range of the 
 pack right now. COD4 is the most arse kicking action game I have ever played. I can wait for Crysis. 
 My enormous fat ass of a girlfriend can wait for love. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hessien
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 8, 2007 12:27 am PT
Review:  Short! Oh man but I don't think my heart could have taken much more. Loved all of it. Voice acting 
 was amazing. The story has twists you wont imagine. The game takes you to new realms of experience 
 other than (make it alive through the level shoot em uppers) Seems linear but you can take the harder 
 route at times it seems. The last batch of first person shooter has left me wantng for something 
 that had a feeling of real life or close to it. This is the game I was waiting for. Can't wait 
 to try the PvP. If you like first person shooters do yourself a favor and buy this one. OH the 
 bleeding was from the nose. My daughter was trying to get my attention while I was playing and 
 she had to throw a ball at me to get my attention. It was a baseball and it hit me in the nose. 
 Do I get a CoD4 purple heart for that? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xp0svolc0mx
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 8, 2007 12:14 am PT
Review:  Call of Duty 4 is here. This is the third game in the Call of Duty franchise created by developer 
 Inifinty Ward (Call of Duty 3 was created by Treyarch respectfully) While many felt that the Call 
 of Duty series was going no where, Infinity Ward decides to take a very smart and rewarding path. 
 Why stick to WWII? WWII is an over used genre. Even though the few games to come out for that genre 
 have been great. It felt like everyone knew what was bound to happen before playing the game. Call 
 of Duty 4 is the most intense shooter out to date. In my opinion.
  
  Graphics: All throughout the game the graphics are stunning. The glow on the models, the high detail 
 in the environment, models, and weapons draw you into the experiece. The graphics do a great job 
 in making you believe that you are really in that battle. The animation is superb and the use of 
 ragdoll is not needed. Of course there are minor letbacks. Some of the details up close may not 
 look as impressive as others, but those are few and far between. A. I : Impressive all around. They 
 use cover when needed, throw tons of grenades, and even try to flank you at times. Ocassionaly 
 there is the one brave soul who decides to run toward while being shot at from all sides. But nothing 
 serious at all. Your squad works great in saving your neck and telling you the status of the battle 
 field. Enemies will yell out if their comrades have fallen or if they need support. The developers 
 did a great job on making you believe your actually fighting soldiers.
  
  Sound: The sound is to superior for the review. Buy the game, blast the speakers, and you'll know 
 what I'm talking about.
  
  SinglePlayer: While only about 5-6 hours on the normal (which I played) difficulty setting. Those 
 hours are nonstop action and tension between you and the world inside the game. It would've been 
 nice to see more hours put into the game. But the arcade mode is a good reason to go back. The 
 arcade mode basically gives you points for kills and other challenges in the game. Example: shoot 
 some bad guys, and see +10 over their heads. Congrats, you just got 10 points. Get the idea? Also, 
 everything is basically through FIRST PERSON. Even ****SPOILER****** The death of a president is 
 all played through first person *****END SPOILER****** The most intense COD singleplayer.
  
  Multiplayer: 16 maps, very customizable settings, and challenges put on top of that makes this 
 multiplayer a great addition to the game. If it was not for the impressive deep multiplayer, the 
 game might have not scored so well. The multiplayer has a full on stat/scoring system based on 
 numerous things going on during multiplayer. You can customize your class, change your weapons, 
 unlock new weapons, camoflague, and also Perks. Perks, are advantages that if you unlock, you can 
 use on the battle field. Such as, pulling out a pistol when shot down to blow some shells into 
 the enemies chest just before dying. Or dropping a grenade everytime you die. These additions are 
 impressive, but nothing to huge to change the outcome of the battle. There are challeneges in the 
 multiplayer that require you to learn the skill of the weapons in the game. Have fun and see you 
 out there.
  
  OVERALL: The strong compelling singleplayer followed by the deep and impressive multiplayer makes 
 COD 4 the game to own. Yet there is no reason for the singleplayer part to be so short, half the 
 time of most games. But the multiplayer does make up for it. The photo-realistic graphics are impressive 
 and next-gen. Buy it, play it, love it. As I said for COD 2, if you are a fan of the COD series, 
 or just a fan of shooters in general, this game is a MUST buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JazzHearsYou
Rating: 5
Date: Nov 8, 2007 1:55 am PT
Review:  The single player is awesome to say the least. It's incredibly immersive and is loaded with action 
 and suprises. The graphics are good but not great. I am not much of a single player enthusiast 
 but i will probably play the single player a few times. Now the multiplayer... good lord what were 
 you developers thinking? It's simply a meat grinder which is loaded with a basket full of noobness... for 
 instance:
  1. Instaprone noobs... check
  2. bunny hopping noobs... check
  3. claymore noobs... check
  4. noob tubes... check
  5. overpowered sniper noobs.... check
  6. 
 you can shoot through cement walls... check (hackers are gonna love this one)
  
  the multiplayer is a steaming pile of crap but will entice alot of people to keep playing because 
 of the unlock system which tends to be virtual crack to alot of gamers. I'd wait for the price 
 to drop before going with this one as the only reedeming value is the single player. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GOML
Rating: 3.5
Date: Nov 7, 2007 8:21 pm PT
Review:  The graphics are awesome and it ends there, but i still get the feeling that there is a spawn point 
 on the other side of that wall, and that i am playing in a huge wallpaper covered room (the sky 
 and surrounding area) . I saw no difference in graphics except for some heating effects, vision fade 
 and dx10 looking shadows and lighting with dx9 settings. The campaign seems pointless and the story 
 is weak. As of lately with all new games there will need to be some big patches to fix the bugs 
 and issues with the game, for example walling and grenades. When it comes to realism its so so. 
 The RPGs that seem to never stop flying around are weak and slow. The environment doesn't break 
 away even a little like in FEAR or even GRAW. As for the FPS issue with some users its sad and 
 could have been avoided, the graphics even on high are the same as COD2 is for extra. I found the 
 game to be all flash and no substance. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Madcows
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 25, 2008 1:05 pm PT
Review:  Call of duty does deliver and does it well. First off the graphics are great and you don't need 
 a super computer to run then. The sound is also good and really brings the battle to you. It is 
 a first person shooter a mixture of tactical and arcadish play. Cover is your friend so use it, 
 aiming is also your friend. Not to say there is no spray and pray because there is not as much 
 as some games but you can do it. Aiming though is your best option. The game single player is 
 very good it will really bring you in the game with the scenery and the squad that you have around 
 you. Online there are many different modes such as domination team death match, free for all and 
 a few others. With rank comes privileges weapon unlocks add ons for your guns speed busts more 
 health just to name a few. There are no vehicles that you can drive which kind of sucks but the 
 game is all about the shooter. Its not a ten, I was more addicted to the Call of duty one and Battle 
 field 2 for some reason, But have no doubt that this game did one up the previous title. Brings 
 new graphics sound and gaming options if you throw a ten at everything it means nothing. So I won't 
 cry WOLF! This is a well deserved 8 at least 9 at most. But like all games it does get old after 
 away and the ranking comes to easy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Matte979
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 7, 2007 7:10 pm PT
Review:  Maybe I am hard to impress but the arcadish game play and way to fast and easy game. Action is 
 way to instant not enough suspense. Feels like some of the recent action movies that came out. 
 All effects and focus on action not story and character build up. I think Infinity ward could have 
 done better. At least there is a lot of games coming out. Still a good diversion until Crysis comes 
 out. It will be intersting what modders can do with the great looking engine, if they create some 
 bigger maps slow the game down a notch and it can really turn into a great multiplayer game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: walla1963
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 7, 2007 10:50 am PT
Review:  This Is A Amazing Game...
  I Was Like It Allot Because This One Got A God Graphic And I Think That This Is The Best One From 
 The COD 
  And This One Was An Interesting One.
  If You Will Get 8800GTX Or Ultra (I Got Ultra :P But My Computer Get Broking Because IT Pull So 
 I Use Right Now In My Laptop) It Make It For Real Like This In The Real Life But This Just The Start 
 Of That Wean You Get To The Game You Will Think That Some-think Is Wait For Behind The Corner
 
  I So Loved That Game So I Think To Do With That Some-think
  But This Game Get You To Life And I Was Feel That I Was In The Game So What About You??... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ghostownguru
Rating: 4
Date: Nov 7, 2007 4:34 am PT
Review:  I can't believe I was taken to the wood shed like this. I like shoot people just like the next 
 guy but this game was definitely over hyped. I wished I would have waited and bought this on sale 
 at least I would not feel like I have been cheated. First lets talk about Multiplayer. There is 
 no capture the flag. And that is the only reason I bought it. So there. I don't care what they 
 added, they should not have subtracted from the game. And no CTF is a hugh subtraction. Plus there 
 is only 16 players per team. I liked 32 much better I do like the ranking but that will not replace 
 CTF. The weapons are nice but that doesn't make up for the missing CTF. Unless they come out with 
 a CTF expansion pack this game is ruined. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tipacalypse
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 7, 2007 3:30 am PT
Review:  Don't hesitate to buy this game. It is truly one of the best multiplayer experiences ever. If you 
 can get past the short single player, the class and rank system in multiplayer will have you dying, 
 literally to get that next rank. Graphics are good, gameplay is smooth and amazing. If you are 
 a fan of an MMO that rates you on skill vs how many rabbits you can kill in 5 hours then this is 
 your game. I find myself constantly keeping up with my stats and anxious to increase them which 
 is a great addition to the COD series. They even added different skins for different classes and 
 weapons. The only downside i see is that use of explosive weaponry can be spammed and you'll catch 
 some servers where every single person has a grenade or rocket launcher and spawning safely becomes 
 a chore! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Chuckshissle
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 7, 2007 1:47 am PT
Review:  This is by the far the best of the Call of Duty franchise. Single player here is the highlight 
 for me. It's the best single player story mode I have ever played. Seriously, the C-130Gunship 
 and the Sniper levels are the ones I love the most and it's just amazing. Too bad I wasn't able 
 to run the game at it's highest quality but at Med-High I was still able to play it smooth. But 
 that's not the concern because you will be so emersed of the story mode that everything else don't 
 matter. The Multiplayer, well it's maintains a Call of Duty taste to it but it's not the greatest. 
 But overall, it a money well spent for me on this game. Trust me you will not be down. Just make 
 you have a decent system to run this game at med quality smoothly. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: silocybe
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 6, 2007 10:11 pm PT
Review:  If you played any other the other COD's, then you will be extremely satisfied with this production. 
 The cinematics are as close to reality as I have seen in a game, and I find myself actually moving 
 while playing the game (something I never do) to avoid enemy fire or a grenade. Highly realistic 
 if you have served in the military and have found yourself under fire. COD4 plays out like the 
 best action movies, and the excitement never cools down. I simply cannot wait for the expansion 
 pack.
  
  I will leave you with only one thought.... buy this game, it is absolutely amazing!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wrtbks
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 6, 2007 9:01 pm PT
Review:  COD4 ROCKS!! The graphics, the sound... all of it amazingly realistic! You have rounds bouncing 
 off of stuff, smoke, grenades, pieces of the wall, everything around you is engaged and you have 
 to stay focused. This is an exceptional FPS! I cant even see the original COD franchise in this 
 iterationit feels and sounds different. The weapons are right on, great sights and scopes, very 
 accurate. Just check out the opening video where you are the captured Presidentthere is a ton 
 of AI activity around youyou wont want to miss any of it. Get this game and lock and load! COD4 
 Rocks! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FlankerDFMax
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 6, 2007 7:27 pm PT
Review:  Great Sound &amp; outstanding visuals, non stop action, relevant modern storyline. As you've heard, 
 TOO SHORT! Excellent multiplayer content and a wild single player campaign are no excuse for this 
 short a full price title. SHAME on the publisher! Though it's linear, some of the SP levels are 
 quite large and open, the CQB is a blast (though if there's a door you should be able to kick or 
 blow it open with our weapon) to add variety and more paths through some levels. Good weapon variety, 
 and and the ballistics are well modeled for this type of game. The friendly SP AI doesn't get in 
 your way too much, and the enemy AI moves and shoots well (especially on the harder difficulty 
 settings!) and are some nade tossing bad boys, so be warned! Did I mention the excellent lengthy 
 cutscene/backstory/ credits movie between the first and second levels? If not I should have because 
 it's one of the best I've ever seen. All in all one of the best shooter this year though I give 
 it an 8 SOLEly because it is so RIP OFF SHORT! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: crippla87
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 22, 2008 6:52 pm PT
Review:  This game straight up blew me away the moment the campaign started. This game is gorgeous people! 
 You will get to go and do a variety of things in the campaign. The greatest parts are the ones 
 that stray from the main parts. There are two specific instances that come to mind: a sniping mission 
 where you actually take into account wind, humidity and even the earth's rotation, and the other 
 when you get to use infared imagining to shoot out of a plane. The campaign is very well put together 
 in all areas but sadly lacks the playing time since you can breeze through it easily in an afternoon 
 session. Probably between 4-6 hrs. What's there though, makes it worth it and is re-playable.
 
  
  The online is definitely where its at in this game. The perk system is unique and working to unlock 
 additional features: weapons, mods and perks is very addictive. The huge advantage for PC buyers 
 is that they can have 32 players on a server as opposed to the 16 or 18 player limit on the consoles. 
 And there is always mod support which extends the life of the game.
  
  The game is amazing to look at, but expect to have to run this baby on a decent machine otherwise, 
 you'll have to compromise. Don't fret though, its still has decent requirements to allow a vast 
 amount of people to be able to play it. I'm running on: 3.2 P4 GHZ Processor, 1 GB RAM, 256mb Radeon 
 x850 and its able to play in high res with almost all settings cranked up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: reddevilofhell
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 6, 2007 5:32 pm PT
Review:  Just got Cod4 and loved every bit of it. Apart from the realistic visuals and almost real gameplay, 
 the fun and the immensiveness of the game follows its predecessors .
  
  The new weapons with the old gameplay techniques, may confuse you for a little time, but after 
 some time, you will get the hang of it and will realize thats its just like other COD just in the 
 MODERN WORLD.
  
  The physics system is really good, and gives a good blowing experience.
  
  The blur motion is back in play, and so are the grenade indicators.
  
  The new world will 
 keep hold of your attention, till the time you realize that you have already finished the game.
 
  
  The fun is great but doesnt lasts too long.
  
  I think they used the extra space on the DVD for the Graphics and not the extra rounds. LOL.
  
 
  But anyway once you get the hang of it, most people will not find it hard, especially the older 
 Cod players, who eventually realize like me that we can turn every shot into a headshot.
  
  Overall this game will rock your world along with other titles like GOW and FEAR PM, till CRYSIS 
 is out.
  
  CHeers and PC gaming forever 
::::::

::::::
UserName: f4tb0i18
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 6, 2007 3:36 pm PT
Review:  Its true Call of Duty 4 is the best one since the original. I love that they updated it to a new 
 era and left the World War 2 era. I was kinda hoping Infinity Ward would make a vietnam war era 
 game before they did modern. Because us FPS gamers are in need of a good vietnam game becuz u know 
 Infinity ward could make it. But back to the Review.
  
  The Call of Duty 4 has an amazing assortment of weapons. The difference in weapons from the predecessors 
 shine in the secondary weapons. They no longer only have one pistol for each team. US can pick 
 between, USP .45, Colt 1911, and more.
  
  three rocket launcher , stinger, rpg and i forget the other one.
  
  Multiplayer is still amazing 
 in COD but now even better with a ranking system added and a customizable gun capability and you 
 get points for attacking and killing which adds points towards your next rank or gun part.
  
  Single player is even better now with an amazing story. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kmconstable
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 2, 2008 2:33 pm PT
Review:  I was glad to hear Infinity Ward was involved in the development of this game. They know how to 
 make really good and enduring online games. The single player portion of the game is good, but 
 short. This does not bother me however as it tells the story it needs to without extending it further 
 than would work. I really see the single player as a warm-up for the multi-player game anyway. 
 This is where this game will be better than many others for some time. With 16 maps and plenty 
 of customization options as well as great sound and graphics this game is sure to appeal to many 
 gamers. And I will gloat a little bit as the PC version will allow more players online at any given 
 time 32 as opposed to 16. At this time there are many mods for the PC version of the game and I 
 play on a site that has 30-50 custom maps. Not only is this one of the best games I purchased last 
 year , it is easily the one I play the most and will continue to play for some time. UO was the 
 same way. I played that game for a few years. Hundreds and hundreds of hours of online glory! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FaceLifter_1
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 6, 2007 12:02 pm PT
Review:  I want everyone to think back to the reviews where a lack of multi-player was a key factor in the 
 review. I don't think that it's acceptable for a game to be released with only a 5 hour campaign. 
 I will say that COD 4 has some of the best multi-player game play around and that the single player 
 is rock solid. I would buy this game just for the multi-player alone. I feel however; that to make 
 it a real next gen release; worthy a 9 or higher. It would need a longer single player campaign. 
 I hate the term Next Gen BTW...
  
  Still worth a buy; but if your money is tight I would suggest waiting till Crysis and Unreal come 
 before making your choice. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: masters89
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 6, 2007 10:33 am PT
Review:  Things that amazed me : (The uniqe of the game)
  
  1 - crazy enviroment affects , espeacially the gernades exploding .
  2 - When zooming your rifle 
 scoop the blurry visuals around it .
  3 - melee attack how the reality expression of his face.
  4 - really uniqe night vision mode 
 .. never experianced one as this.
  5 - team working , Especially at the demo version when your teammate strikes with the enemy and 
 hes about to die you should safe him and aim good at your target (enemy) . Comparing it to crysis 
 : Well Cod 4 had the fun and crysis had the unfun :) . as simple as that. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stanleycup98
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 5, 2007 7:25 pm PT
Review:  Call of Duty has left its roots in the World War II era. The next installment in the series, Call 
 of Duty 4, is set in modern times. No longer will you be gunning down Germans on the beaches on 
 DDay. Now you will be fighting terrorists trying to destroy the world. We will get to that later. 
 Now onto my review!
  
  Overview:
  Infinity Ward, the original developer of Call of Duty, is responsible for CoD4. The publisher is 
 Activision. Infinity Ward decided to leave its roots in WWII and have decided to set this next 
 game in modern times. There are lots of great improvements from Call of Duty 2. These show and 
 make the game a whole lot better. There are changes in game play, multiplayer, single player, graphics, 
 and more. Story (9/10) :
  Im sure many people were sad when they saw they were not gunning down Nazis anymore. The main 
 villain in CoD4 is Zakhaev, a nefarious Russian warlord with links to the mob and old oil money. 
 He plans to consolidate his powers in Russia in the hopes of taking over the Russian government 
 and gaining control of the countrys nuclear arsenal. However, he knows the Western countries will 
 respond if he attempts anything in Russia. Therefore, he gets his friend Al-Asad and his army to 
 attempt a coup in an unnamed Middle-Eastern country (it is unnamed to avoid any political issues) . 
 This action works, and the U. S. A. sends its Marine Force Recon to help this unnamed Middle-Eastern 
 countrys government fight the coup. However, the British SAS arent fooled as easy. They had 
 been keeping their eye on Zakhaev and know what he is doing. You will play as two main characters 
 throughout the game (you will play as another character for a mission) . As Soap MacTavish, a 
 recruit in the 22nd SAS Regiment, you will fight in Russia attempting to stop Zakhaev. As Paul 
 Jackson, a sergeant in the 1st Marine Force Recon, you will fight in the Middle-Eastern country. 
 Later in the game, Zakhaev gains control of some nukes and fires them. Unlike the other Call of 
 Duty games, not all the characters you play as will survive. I dont want to ruin it for you, but 
 one of the characters will die. This is a huge turning point in the story. After this turning point, 
 the Marines and SAS join forces to attempt to stop Zakhaev once and for all. Single-Player (9/10) :
 
  The single-player, unlike the other CoD games, now has Acts. There are three (or five, if you 
 count the prologue and epilogue) acts, rightfully named Act 1, Act 2, and Act 3. The first 
 act has 7 missions in it, with the turning point at the end. Act 2 contains 5 missions, and Act 
 3 has 4 missions. If you add the missions in the prologue (2 of them) and epilogue (1 of them) , 
 you will end up with the total of 19 missions. You will never find yourself doing the same thing 
 long enough so you get bored. You will always be doing different things in each mission. Each mission 
 is amazing and intense. That leads us into the game play element of the game.
  
  Game play (7.5/10) :
  The most photo-realistic video game we have ever seen!  Game Informer
 
  One of the deepest online shooters of all time.  IGN. com
  The most intense first-person shooter we have ever seen.  Game Informer
  These three quotes 
 pretty much sum up what people thing of this game; intense, realistic, and deep. They are correct. 
 This game is extremely intense. I cant think of a way to describe it in words. You will feel it 
 when you are in game, with 5.1 Surround Sound blasting; with gunfire zipping everywhere you look; 
 with endless amounts of enemies pouring at you, all seemingly trying to shoot your brains out; 
 with explosions going off all around you; with squad leaders yelling commands. I dont want to 
 type too much, but the intensity in this game is amazing. When I was typing that out, my fingers 
 were about to spas out with excitement. Yea... Im serious. Yes, I know that is weird. Hold on...*flaps 
 arms around crazily*... OK, Im fine now. Pretty much, if you have ever played a single Call of 
 Duty game, multiply the intensity of that by 10. That is Call of Duty 4.
  The only problem I have found with the game play is the same issue that was in the other Call of 
 Duty games. It is too linear. Messages are continuously coming up on your screen saying FIND THE 
 JAVELIN. You look on your compass and find the direction the Javelin is in. And woe and behold, 
 there is a flashing, yellow, hologram over there. Hmm... I wonder if that is what I need to go to. 
 So, you take the only way over there. Through the alley way, shoot a few guys and you pick it up. 
 Then you die. You respawn at where you get your objective. You go to the Javelin again. The enemies 
 are in the exact same place, expecting you. You have only one path to take. Once you get past this, 
 however, it is very fun.
  
  Multiplayer (9/10) :
  There are huge changes to the multiplayer in Call of Duty 4. The main differences are the ranks, 
 unlocks, challenges, and class creation. Before we get to describing that, let me overview the 
 multiplayer a bit. The max amount of players on consoles is 16, and the max on the PC is 32. However, 
 the setting can be changes to anything. Dont be surprised to see servers with 64. Now, that is 
 intense! There are also many of the basic Call of Duty game modes, as well as some additional ones. 
 The most basic one, Free-for-All, aka Deathmatch, is what the name says; every man for himself. 
 Team Deathmatch is basically the same thing, except there are two teams. Of course, you try to 
 kill the players on the other team. Then there is Search and Destroy, where two teams fight to 
 either plant a bomb or to defend. CoD vets should now about this. Also returning is headquarters, 
 where the two teams battle to control the radio. Missing in CoD2 was domination, but it is back. 
 The two teams fight to control different positions around the map. Think Battlefield conquest. 
 Those are the only games returning from previous games. Oh... what did you say? Yes, there is no 
 CTF at the time of this writing. IW has said that it is not ready yet. Hopefully it will be about 
 for *free* download later. One of the new game modes is sabotage. A neutral bomb is at the center 
 of the map, and each team fights to destroy the other teams objective. There are also some rules 
 that you can apply to the game modes. Hardcore makes the game realistic; removing the HUD, increasing 
 bullet damage, etc. Old School makes you have to pick-up weapons and perks. Also, health is increased 
 and jumps are higher. Oldcore combines Hardcore and Old School modes. All of these game modes, 
 as well as variations of them you can play, will be sure to keep you busy. Like I have said before, 
 there are ranks, unlocks, challenges, and class creations. You will earn ranks as you play. To 
 rank-up, you must gain experience (XP) . You can get XP by doing most things in the game, including 
 killing or planting the bomb in S&amp; D. When you reach level 4, you unlock the ability to create-a-class. 
 You can change things such as your primary weapon, side arm, perks, special grenades, camouflage 
 patterns and attachments. You unlock attachments/camouflage patterns for your primary weapon by 
 completing challenges, which basically are challenges that you have to complete. You gain XP from 
 these too. Your side arm would be your pistol. I mentioned you can choose perks. Perks are special 
 abilities you can add to your character. For example, Stopping Power adds bullet damage. The special 
 grenade would be a flash bang, smoke grenade, etc. You can then name your class and use it in game. 
 As you rank up, you will unlock new weapons. Once you reach the level cap of 55, you will also 
 get the option to go through prestige mode. You will get your stats reset, but you will get a symbol 
 next to your name that says, Hey, Im awesome! You can do this 10 times. This will be sure to 
 keep you going. There are also 16 multiplayer maps, each with a different play style. Each play 
 style will cause you to want to change your perks for each class to suit the game. Perks are the 
 key to being successful. The popular party system from Halo 2 has been implemented in Call of Duty 
 4. You will be able to join the same lobby as your friends and will be put on the same team as 
 them. This will help you coordinate your tactics and play successfully. Just one note: there are 
 no drivable vehicles in MP. If you are one of those people who enjoy speeding around the map in 
 a jeep doing hit and runs with your friends, then this is not the game for you.
  
  Graphics (9/10) : The graphic engine is AMAZING. The shadows are amazing. The effects are stunning. 
 There isnt really much I can say about graphics. If you have seen any clips of the game, you can 
 see that it is stunning visually. You will be blown away.
  
  Sound (8/10) : The sound is just as stunning as the graphics. If you have surround sound, you will 
 be impressed. The sound definitely adds to the intensity of the game. You have explosions going 
 off over him, machine gun fire the other direction, a tank rolling in behind you, helicopters flying 
 overhead with rockets shooting, and enemies/allies yelling. All these things will blow you away 
 while playing. The sound will immerse you into the game so much, you will feel you like you are 
 actually there fighting the war.
  
  Overall Rating: I have rated each section I have talked about. The ratings are as follows... Story 
 (9.5/10) , Single-Player (9/10) , Game play (8/10) , Multiplayer (9/10) , Graphics (9/10) , Sound (8/10) . 
 Averaging that up... and I get a...8.75/10... rounding up to a 9.0. That is my final rating for Call 
 of Duty 4. I recommend you get this game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pandresvillare
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 5, 2007 3:11 pm PT
Review:  ok, weve been waiting this from the COD 2, at least me, and now its simply aweosome.
  
  graphics as the old COD didn&acute; t stop, great explosions , light on the nights and stuff are 
 outstanding. sound is again overpowered, i mean the shooting sound people talking every where and 
 music. just need a simple sound card to enjoy everything.
  
  the storyline is getting better than ever, i mean COD have done good with the WWII F-P-S games, 
 but this its out of level, i mean you&acute; ll never get bored because no game have ever entered 
 in the phase of time.
  
  the style is the same as allways at least 2 more soldiers than you and always full of missions 
 to make, they have taking out the map, some times you will miss it, but then you get used to it.
 
  
  i think this review doesn&acute; t need more, ive you have played the olders COD , Call of Duty 
 4 won&acute; t make you regret, soo go and get your copy NOW!!!!.
  real score: 9.2 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pikapoka
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 5, 2007 7:57 am PT
Review:  Got my hands on a pre-orderd coppy of the game this morning. And i have to say (with a theatrical 
 pause) , its not all that flash and bang and waw that it was promissed. The story is pretty cliche. 
 A bunch of terrorists up to no good, Uncle Sam's right hand takes care of it and saves the day, 
 terrorists dead, everyone happy.
  
  While the game looks good graphicaly, the modelers realy have to go back to the drawing board. 
 The weapons are seriously out of proportion and badly positioned. The AI soldiers regularily clip 
 theyr hand through granade launchers on the M16's, the weapons proportions are completely wrong, 
 for instance the M249 SAW is way too small and the MP5 is way too large. The combat is identical 
 to COD2 and 3, more 3 if we get picky.
  
  If your looking for to the bone realism, franquely, go look ealswhere. COD4 is better compaired 
 to a action movie. Big booms, big ego's and lots of drama.
  
  The good thing is, it runs on the Unreal07 engine, which is fantastic! Its realy forgiving and 
 will run on just about anything... even a blender i could say. while you can churn up the settings 
 on a top class rig, you wont realy notice the difference. Unless you stare at pixles for hours.
 
  
  The Multiplayer is like the old COD multiplayers... ambitious but rubbish. Theres no real aim to 
 it, you just shoot for what its worth. While the perks are a nice touch at trying to make it more 
 individual, its realy easy to max them out and i have to say, games like BF2 and BF2142 did handle 
 the customisations alot better.
  
  Mind you also the gameplay is often quite alienating. Whenever your with some AI squad members, 
 they tend to do most of the shooting for you, so you just end up picking off the straglers. Most 
 noticable in the Ship Raid mission. Where you mainly watch the others shoot away. All in all, i 
 think its a nice litle time waster, the game dosent have a long life span, since you can get through 
 the campaign in around 5h nonstop. Give or take 1. So there you have it. Nothing new, but not bad 
 either. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ShortCutToHell
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 5, 2007 4:42 am PT
Review:  This game is great, but no match for Crysis.
  About military realism and tactics. Some weapons are not drawed like in real world (E. g. Dragunov 
 Sniper scope and AK line of sight) . Best grenade sound efects. Best melee attacks, but were is 
 the combat knife? I like the teammates moving and strategy, covering, cover fire/suppression fire.
 
  About multiplayer. Deathmatch, team deathmatch, objective, and a domination mode. Combat classes 
 (YEESSS!!!) are now present and also three customizable slots. The player can also unlock various 
 weapons but not like in Battlefield 2, these weapons become available on any server you play on. 
 This tend to be more meaningful than in Battlefield 2, since the game is based around infantry 
 combat. Best night vision I ever seen. My conclusion: THE GAME IS REVOLUTIONARY. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
