-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Call of Juarez
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/action/thelawman/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Interesting two-character dynamic with varying gameplay styles.
 shooting is solid.
 great environmental graphics.
 largely excellent voice acting and music.
 multiplayer is good fun.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Billy's sections revolve around too much stealth and lousy platforming.
 character models look strange and zombielike.
 a bit of a generic feel to much of the game.
 missing content from the 360 version.
 notable performance issues on higher resolutions.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Jun 22, 2007
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7
Critic Score: 7.5, 29 Review (s)
User Score: 7.8, 1,369 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Ubisoft
Developer: Techland
Genre: Historic First-Person...
Date:     Jun 12, 2007 &raquo;  
ESRB: Mature

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Call of Juarez takes few risks with its setting or genre, but it does what it does well enough to 
 be enjoyable. 

  We know about the genre known as the spaghetti western, but is there such a thing as a pierogi 
 western? There is now, thanks to Polish developer Techland's Call of Juarez. An Old West-themed 
 first-person shooter, Call of Juarez fits snugly into the solid little niche that games like Gun 
 and Red Dead Revolver have already taken up residence in. The game is similarly hard-boiled and 
 filled with gunslinging, horseback riding, train robbery, and all the other staples of the western 
 genre that you might have already gotten your fill of. Still, for as few risks as Call of Juarez 
 takes across the board, it's a well-made genre exercise that's more often entertaining than not. 

          Never has a game so realistically rendered a Sunday sermon as Call of Juarez does.     
 

  The game puts you into the boots of two distinct characters. Billy Candle is a half-white, half-Mexican 
 drifter of sorts who had been on the hunt for the legendary Lost Gold of Juarez, a treasure trove 
 of gold buried somewhere within the titular town. Unable to find it, Billy decides to come home 
 to the town of Hope to visit his mother and stepfather -- only to find them murdered upon his arrival. 
 The other character is Reverend Ray, Billy's step-uncle and the town preacher. Ray's a reformed 
 gunslinger now dedicated to spreading the Lord's word, but when he hears of the ruckus going on 
 at his brother's farm and arrives to see a panicked Billy running away from the bloody corpses 
 of his brother and sister-in-law, Ray vows vengeance, and begins tracking his step-nephew until 
 he can satisfy it.  

  The dynamic of having two playable characters would be more interesting if there weren't such a 
 distinct separation of quality between them. The more entertaining of the two, both in story and 
 gameplay, is easily Ray. Voiced by an actor who seems to be equally channeling Sam Elliott and 
 the creepy priest from  Poltergeist II , Ray's sequences are filled with enough amazing, self-righteous 
 bible quoting immediately followed by heavy amounts of murdering that you almost wish they'd gotten 
 Samuel L. Jackson for this role. Heck, Ray's even got what we'll affectionately refer to as a "bible 
 button." One of the weapons he can hold is a bible, and if you press the fire button while he's 
 holding it, he'll start reading random passages to any nearby enemies, who will then stop for a 
 second to listen, at which point you can shoot them in their stupid faces. That's either genius 
 or awful -- or possibly both.  

  Apart from using the gospel as a weapon, you spend most of your time as him running around, shooting 
 various hombres, rustlers, outlaws, and other unsavory individuals. His primary weapon is a pair 
 of six-shooters, which he can actually use to bust into a slow-motion "concentration mode" when 
 he draws them from their holsters. Doing this gives you a pair of targeting reticles you can guide 
 toward any nearby enemies and then unload upon them. Ray also gets to engage in some straight-up 
 gun duels against other gunslinging baddies. These are essentially the bulk of the game's boss 
 fights, though they're very quick. In these fights, a counter ticks down, and when you get to the 
 end, you quickly pull back and then press forward on the right control stick to draw. Once you 
 do, your reticle pops up and the scene goes into slow motion again, though the reticle is a little 
 off-kilter, as you did draw rather quickly. It's up to you to aim and shoot before the other guy 
 offs you. You can't call these sequences brilliant, or even especially original (Red Dead Revolver 
 had some similar mechanics) , but they're fun all the same.  

  Less fun and generally more irritating are Billy's sequences. Billy can fire the occasional pistol, 
 and even exclusively use both a bow and arrow and a whip, but nearly all of the scenarios he finds 
 himself in revolve more around bad first-person platforming and overlong stealth sequences than 
 any form of real action. The stealth stuff isn't bad, exactly. Billy can find shadowy or otherwise 
 dark areas to hide in, as well as use bushes and boxes to hide behind, and that all works pretty 
 much as advertised. The issue is that all the stealth bits take way, way too long. Waiting for 
 your enemies to slowly wander through their patrols so you can move from shrub to shrub is about 
 as fun as it sounds. In a few cases you can run and gun it if you want, but you're rarely ever 
 properly armed for these types of situations, and as you are without uncle Ray's concentration 
 ability, Billy just isn't quite as useful for gunfights. So instead, you're stuck spending 15 minutes 
 just trying to navigate one camp full of bandits.  

  Less tolerable are the bouts of climbing and swinging. First-person platforming has never been 
 a good idea, yet for some reason developers keep trotting it out in these sorts of games. It doesn't 
 work here, either. Billy can climb up short ledges, use his whip to grab onto branches and other 
 elongated protrusions, and then swing from one ledge to the next. The main problem here is perspective -- when 
 you're jumping around in the first-person, it's sometimes difficult to gauge the distance of jumps, 
 so you end up trial-and-erroring it until you get just the right amount of distance. The whip-swinging 
 thing seems neat at first, but it can be tough to get the right amount of swing momentum to hit 
 certain ledges. Again, it's a trial-and-error process to figure out how much you need to climb 
 up the whip to get the proper angle. And like the stealth bits, these scenes are just overly protracted. 
 There's one obnoxious fetch quest in the middle of the game where you have to climb up a giant 
 mountain for nearly a half-hour (counting time needed to die and start over) , just to grab an eagle 
 feather for some cranky old Indian, only to have to spend another several minutes jumping your 
 way down. Creating a degree of separation between the two playable characters wasn't a bad idea, 
 but this was perhaps not the ideal way to go about it.  

          Ray's gunslinging abilities are pretty much the highlight of the game.     

  Horseback 
 riding pops up now and again for both characters, and it's an enjoyable distraction from the usual 
 trudging around that you do. Controlling the horse is initially a bit of a pain, but once you get 
 used to it, it's both a quick way to get places and a fun way to engage in combat. There are a 
 couple of scenes where you'll find yourself blasting away at other bandits on horseback. Aiming 
 while on a horse is tough, but that makes sense.  

  Controls on the PC version of Call of Juarez are, as you might expect, significantly different 
 than the 360 version's. Aiming is certainly simpler with the use of the mouse, and whip swinging 
 is actually a little easier as well, as you don't have to fumble around with analog sticks. However, 
 other mechanics are made a bit clumsier by this control scheme. Ray's concentration mode now requires 
 you to press two buttons at once to holster his weapons, and horseback riding, which was already 
 unwieldy to control, is even tougher to deal with on the PC. The crouch mechanic also needs some 
 key remapping to be useful, as the key has to be held down while you move, and default setting 
 of the CTRL key just isn't comfortable.  

  Another key difference between the PC and 360 versions of Call of Juarez is content. None of the 
 extra missions or gun duels that the 360 version has as separate modes are present in the PC version. 
 At least you still get the same 8- to 10-hour campaign, as well as the same multiplayer mode. LAN 
 and online versions of the multiplayer are available, too. The multiplayer is pretty typical class-based 
 FPS-style action. You can play as either a rifleman, a gunslinger, a sniper, or a miner, and there 
 is a variety of modes like deathmatch, team deathmatch, capture the flag, VIP, and so on. The four 
 classes are reasonably well balanced (though in skirmish modes, snipers seem to rule the roost) , 
 and there are enough different modes to keep the action interesting for a while. It helps that 
 the game isn't kneecapped by bad weapons, as some historical FPSes tend to be in the multiplayer 
 arena. All the weapons pack a nice punch, though each class is only assigned a pair of specific 
 weapons, a primary and a secondary. There are no weapon pickups on the various maps. All told, 
 the multiplayer isn't remarkable, but it can be fun.  

  In terms of presentation, Call of Juarez is all over the map, especially as far as graphics go. 
 Environments are definitely the high point. As you wander around the game, you'll see tons of attractive 
 Old West scenery, from mountain vistas to desert plains. It's great-looking stuff that's made better 
 by some nice lighting effects and solid texture work (save for a few occasional ugly spots) . On 
 the other side of the coin are the character models. The people you encounter all have that sort 
 of Doom 3 overly shiny thing going on, and they even look a bit mutated to boot. Animations tend 
 to be stiff, clipping issues pop up quite often, and any time you catch a glimpse of what your 
 own character model is doing, either in a reflection or a shadow, or just by looking down, you'd 
 think you were controlling an animatronic robot from some ghost town tourist trap. Still, the problems 
 are mostly outweighed by the positives, and the game as a whole looks good.  

  It looks noticeably better if you happen to have a video card that supports DirectX 10. On the 
 higher resolutions, environmental details and grass/foliage are much denser and cleaner looking. 
 Lighting and shadows are also more impressive. At the same time, even on a high-end PC, the game 
 chugs a bit while running on the higher resolutions. It's nothing game breaking, but the frame 
 rate drops quite a bit. It's also worth noting that on multiple test PCs, loading times for each 
 chapter and multiplayer map were over the top.  

          Multiplayer is solid fun.     

  Audio is less scattershot. Apart from some great sound effects and a soundtrack that nicely captures 
 the atmosphere of the era, the game has mostly solid, if slightly hammy voice acting for nearly 
 all the characters. Billy is the only one who didn't fare very well, as the actor who plays him 
 sound like he's in as big a rush as possible to get out of the recording booth, but pretty much 
 everyone else is on their game and delivers an entertaining performance.  

  As ham-fisted and generic as Call of Juarez can be at times, it does enough right to transcend 
 its various issues and turn in a pleasing shooter. It does the Old West motif well, the gunslinging 
 (and bible slinging) are a lot of fun, and the capable multiplayer modes have enough going for 
 them to give the game a bit of staying power. It doesn't quite rise past the ceiling established 
 by other recent western shooters, but it's good, solid fun all around. That said, if you have the 
 choice, you should probably look to the Xbox 360 version. The PC iteration is good, but its lack 
 of content for its price tag and slightly dodgy DX10 support prevent it from being the ideal choice. 
     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (70 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: macmert
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 12, 2009 8:16 am PT
Review:  I have to say, I am not an FPS player and when I play, I really suck cause I usually choose FPSneak 
 games rather than shooters... But while I was looking for a good Western shooter, I found this 
 game, I read a user review saying that this is the best western shooter till the legendery western 
 shooter Outlaws... 
  
  As a huge huge fan of Outlaws I decided to try this game out and it turned out pretty well... A 
 bit short though.
  
  
  The game starts with a young mexican boy, named Billy Candle, a boy who left his home in search 
 of the famous aztec gold, the ransom for Montezuma, the legends say that the gold is in a village 
 called Juarez, but it is cursed, who will seek it will be doomed and the curse is called Call of 
 Juarez.
  
  So our boy Candle comes back from his fruitless search but he is also shunned by the townsfolk 
 since he is akin to trouble, which is far from the truth... 
  
  I will not give away anymore plot details but I have to say although it is not a masterpiece like 
 the Thief series or Deus Ex (not invisible war) but the story is suprisingly good, makes you play 
 more and more.
  
  The graphics are not top notch, since the game is a bit old and the graphic engine is not something 
 spectacular, but all in all it does a good job. The long shot view and water effects are quite 
 nice, the characters look decent, all in all it is not crysis but it is good enough to be playable.
 
  
  The game itself is hard, or it is hard for me since I am not good at shooters but it is quite the 
 fun, the quickdraw feature is a nice touch to the game, you can holster your pistols and when the 
 timer is up, you can press the mouse buttons to engage a slow motion bullet time - like feature 
 to shoot enemies. 
  
  There are also some boss fights which feature duels. you duel with the boss to take him down before 
 you are taken down, so it is quite simple but a cool addition.
  
  Some levels are much like thief or even tomb raider, where you need to overcome certain obstackles 
 in order to proceed, what you have is a whip, where you can hang from branches and such and swing 
 in an Indiana Jones fashion, that part of the game is a bit clumsy but it is not tiresome to make 
 you quit the game and just give up. 
  
  The soundtrack is good, it is really good, it combines nice western tunes with classic music, really 
 fits the theme and gets you in the mood. As a huge fan of Outlaws' soundtrack, I have to say I 
 am impressed with Jall of Juarez's soundtrack.
  
  Although the single player campaign is a bit short, the platform part of the game is a bit clumsy, 
 it is a good game to try out, especially if you are into wild west or you played outlaws back then 
 and yearn for a similar experience. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: soulburner88
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 20, 2009 8:10 am PT
Review:  The game is very immersive and it`s like nothing I have played before. I can`t find anything bad 
 to say about this game and the game experience is authentic. It`s an unexpected and refreshing 
 comeback of the classic western movie.
  Graphics: 7/10 Textures don`t look that well, water looks crappy but the lightning is pretty good.
 
  Design: 9/10 Level design is awesome, each level stands out on its own.
  Sound: 10/10 I have never heard before any voice acting of such great quality.
  Music: 8/10 Fits 
 pretty well with the game, could have been a little more exotic.
  Game Play: 8/10 Everything works just fine. Loading time is long :) )
  Storyline: 10/10 This is 
 the jewel of this game, you can never expect what is going to happen next and where it`s going 
 to take you. The two main characters are well developed and chiseled.
  Innovation: 8/10 Bullettime appears in a totally new way, gun duels are fun, but fighting a long 
 line of wolves coming your way is NOT fun.
  So, as I see, this game shoots for an 8.5
  And, I bet you`ll love preaching to your enemies while you shoot them. It's definitely worth playing. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zwnianos
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 16, 2009 10:36 am PT
Review:  First of all, I've got to tell u that westerns aren't popular here!!!
  However this game is amazing!!!
  
  
  
  
  
  A fascinating story , an interesting plot 
 , massive multiplayer , nice music and sounds!!!
  And most of all: Great graphics and incredible variety!!
  U generally use 2 skills: Billy uses 
 stealth which makes this part addictive!!! Ray uses shooting abilities which are impressive!!
 
  
  
  To sum up: Just play!!!
  
  +
  amazing graphics
  terrific sound and voice acting
  amazing scenario
  great variety
  excellent multipayer
 
  It will take u much time to finish it (but not too much so it isn't boring!!!)
  Nice atmosphere and creation of the towns
  historically accurate
  Exciting (the ending is just 
 right) I think it would make a great movie!!
  -
  system requirements (a few bugs)
  
  
  
  I recommend it to everyone!!!!
  U won't regret it!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lord_Tigger
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 10, 2009 6:35 am PT
Review:  I had wanted to play Call of Juarez since it came out last year but had to wait for a beefier rig. 
 When I finally got my hands on a faster computer I quickly felt rewarded for my patience. Techland 
 could have easily developed just another shooter. With the name Call of Juarez, they were already 
 on the way to cookie-cutter Hollywood-based action gaming with the likes of WWII staples Medal 
 of Honor and Call of Duty. The Western genre had seen its share too with Gun and Dead Man's Hand. 
 The overly dramatic story lines with pseudo-realistic combat limitations are not only acceptable, 
 but they are expected with the "story shooter". CoJ has those elements, but sets itself apart with 
 unique combat tools, a split story line, and more light-hearted fun than trying to be the best 
 shooter on the market. It seems that is the key to the success of CoJ: it doesn't take itself too 
 seriously, and in this almost relaxed atmosphere you find the qualities of enjoyable entertainment 
 that so many other shooters forget to provide.
  
  Set in southwest Texas in the late 1800's, you follow Billy, a misunderstood young man who is quickly 
 blamed a murder he did not commit. Billy is on the run, and uses his special skills of climbing 
 and swinging with a bullwhip to scamper across mountains, ravines, and valleys along the way. The 
 story bounces from Billy to Reverend Ray, possibly one of the coolest protagonists in any shooter. 
 Billy is something of a jackrabbit, hopping through the story and doing more dodging than fighting. 
 Ray is a bulldozer, shooting everything and everyone that poses the least bit of threat as he pursues 
 Billy. Ray's only real special talent is the quick-draw (called "concentration mode") , where time 
 slows down and you can sight up your shots easier, but still take hits if you're not careful.
 
  
  The combat missions are beyond rewarding, with the exact look and feel of a Hollywood Wild West 
 shootout captured. Guns sound authentic, men crumple and roll when hit, bullets fly, fire burns, 
 and whether you want to hide-and-shoot or run forward guns blazing is up to you. Billy carries 
 a bow and arrow, which, like Ray's quick draw, slows time for a second while you line the shot 
 up. It's better than any sniper rifle at medium ranges, and if you've played Tale Worlds' Mount 
 & Blade or even Oblivion, you'll be deadly with the bow in no time. The physics during combat are 
 truly amazing as you have to account for distance, time your shots, and lead out a running target. 
 The AI during combat is more than adequate and will take cover and fire cautiously, sometimes with 
 deadly accuracy. It also responds to combat actions, where in one fight Billy aimed too high and 
 the arrow went through a bandit's hat, taking it off his head. The bandit stopped, looked behind 
 at his hat, then turned and kept firing.
  
  The other non-combat missions, which are mostly Billy's, can be somewhat trying and you'll be salivating 
 for the next mission to play as Ray. Stealth missions, bland jumping puzzles, and an over-long 
 mountain climbing expedition that has absolutely no bearing on the story whatsoever yet is necessary 
 to complete for some reason do drag the story down somewhat, but all those things are only temporary 
 and the story continues shortly after. The truest frustrations, at least for the PC version, are 
 the quick-draw duels and fistfights you have with an end boss in most missions. The mouse is not 
 the best tool for either of these and you'll quickly grow tired and frustrated at having to reload 
 your save over and over.
  
  Much of the American voice acting is superb, despite cheesy Hollywood lines, and the accents and 
 inflections fit well with the dingy settings and authentic-looking outfits. The graphics are nothing 
 shy of gorgeous, capturing beautiful terrain and the expected Hollywood Wild West towns. Dust chokes 
 the air, clouds roll by in a gorgeous sky, and if you're still enough in some places you'll notice 
 that butterfly had a shadow of his own. With Windows Vista and Direct X 10 on my GeForce 9800 card, 
 however, there is an annoying pixilated graph pattern to the trees and shrubs, almost as if they 
 were made of wire mesh rather than a flat texture. It's very distracting but the only true technical 
 complaint I can make.
  
  A bigger problem is a combination of graphics and game play, which, I'm sure, was implemented to 
 be an asset but turned out to actually hinder the game's quality. Stand on a high point in some 
 spots and you can see forever, even spotting some landmarks of places you've passed. You can walk 
 back to a lot of these locations (horses are grossly under used in this game) but there are no 
 encounters of any kind to be had. There are miles and miles of beautiful open terrain to rival 
 that of Oblivion, and all of it is wasted in terms of use. Techland should have could have made 
 a Mass Effect-style Western RPG with all that space and added a whole new level of depth, doubling 
 the amount of side missions without getting bogged down in extra story arcs, but they passed on 
 a brilliant opportunity.
  
  The only other complaint I can make is the ending, which comes all too quickly, is disappointingly 
 typical, and leaves one major story issue unresolved. I burned through this game in about a full 
 day's worth of game play. It wasn't that I had the difficulty on easy, but just that I didn't want 
 it to stop. I wish they had made the game bigger, but the quality mix of action and story certainly 
 gave the feel that this was time well spent. Pulse-pounding chases, frantic gunfights, and a beautiful 
 setting make the game worth your while. Call of Juarez is severely underrated by critics; if you 
 like Westerns and you love a good Wild West shootout, snag a copy today. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: derGonzo
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 25, 2008 3:52 pm PT
Review:  Do you remember this great oldschool western shooter, Outlaw? No? So you are probably just too 
 young and so you should just try this "new" stuff. For all the mature fellas, it just feels like 
 the good, old "Outlaw", except of the Outlaws cartoonstyle. Now it's possible to be Clint Eastwood... again! 
 ,o) I loved it... and thats because it's probably almost alone in it's (western) -genre... and believe 
 me I tried a couple of them, like "Gun" (it has been alright, but it hasn't been addictive like 
 "Call of Juarez") But anyway Techland made great game, with an awesome graphic (and just can't 
 forget this magnificient landscape) and a couple of good ideas (specially the story, gave me a 
 bit of a tension) . So it's interesting for the none-western-gamers as well. And so it's recommendable 
 for (almost) everybody, who gots a bit of time and couple of bucks. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cynicoren
Rating: 6
Date: Nov 6, 2008 10:56 am PT
Review:  Well, A western. Guns. This game could be calledShooting limited number of  
 or "The Invincible whip".
  
  But I'll begin with the pro (possibly the only one) :
  It has an original, nicely depicted plot. Dual persona adventure is a nice change, even though 
 you never meet the other person on a "live" game, but only in the cinematic.
  
  That's it.
  
  The game is very buggy and doesn't make sense, and that's very irritating. More 
 than once I got "my person" starting to float in the air while in the cinematic. Once he even died, 
 because he started to float, and when the movie ended, he fell all the way down. Dumb, isn't it 
 ?
  
  I also had my character stuck somewhere, without any possibility to move, so I had to reload.
 
  The creators could make the game so much more real, but it failed. The guns become useless after 
 20-30 shots.
  
  Most of the game you use the whip to hang on branches ?? in a most unbelievable way.
  
  Wolves 
 attack you everywhere you go. 
  
  Spiders has a homing device. If you don't kill them, they will just follow you anywhere.
  
 
  The graphic is just broken. Try the rock-climbing mission to understand, the rock texture is just 
 weird and unreal.
  
  The difficulty levels are very unbalanced. In fact, the first few levels are way hard then the 
 last few, I just went flying by it.
  
  And the list goes on...
  
  Guys, how about a QA before releasing ? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: -Desalbert-
Rating: 7.5
Date: Aug 11, 2008 2:00 pm PT
Review:  Call of Juarez is an interesting game to review. By all accounts now, it's getting a bit long in 
 the tooth, released more than a year ago now and as such, that may change the perspective I take 
 on it, given what's been released since. So, I felt it was important to remember that prior to 
 the game's release it was bolstered by an incredible amount of hype, as I recall. There was a big 
 ra-ra about this game being the definitive western fps, an amazing experience with never-before 
 seen features etc. Well just to make things easy, let me say that it certainly did not amount to 
 all it was supposed to be. But that doesn't mean it wasn't a good game. Allow me to explain:
  
  Did call of Juarez truly provide a definitive Wild West gaming experience? The short answer 
 is "Yes". It provided an interesting backdrop for a story, and stuck to its western guns as far 
 as a plot line. Are they a bunch of bandits, up to no good, killing and looting with their eyes 
 on the greatest treasure of gold known to man? Yes there are. Are there smoking guns, beer bottles, 
 texas twang and showdowns at the saloon? You bet! There's even some solid humour, native Americans, 
 and horse back riding. So yes, Call of Juarez certainly is the first game in semi-recent memory 
 to really stick to the western theme, and stick to it well.
  
  The portrayal of the story is, in fact, expertly done. The voice-overs for the two main characters 
 are, in my opinion, flawless. Furthermore, the back-and-forth design of playing a 'good-guy' and 
 a 'bad-guy' in an alternating way each chapter, and even having those two both running from and 
 chasing the other, respectively, throughout the tale was a truly engrossing, and nearly brilliant 
 take on story-telling. I found myself really caring for each character, wincing when one made an 
 ill-informed decision, and yelling out in disdain when it looked like one of my two characters 
 had finally killed the other; among hundreds of reactions I felt throughout the game's course. 
 In this way, despite it's imperfections, I'll remember the story of Call of Juarez fondly for many 
 years. It was that well done.
  
  Having said that though, a theme or story won't make a game for most people. Although the story 
 of a game is very important for me personally, most gamers, believe it or not, more often favour 
 gameplay over anything else, and that's where this game can run into problems. The general shooting 
 is fairly well done, while the slowing down of time for an accurate shot feels alright, but not 
 so great. It's not like what you would expect, in a sense. Because the crosshairs are continually 
 pushed slowly towards the middle of the screen while in this mode, you can't really be as accurate 
 as you'd like, and it quite frankly doesn't make too much sense either, as you wonder why Reverend 
 Ray would slowly aim his pistols down the centre of the screen when there's enemies on the sides. 
 All in all, the slow-down shooting, though fun and powerful, can also be frustrating, as you drag 
 your mouse forcefully to the left, trying to re-route the automatically meandering crosshairs; 
 an over-sight in design that took a bit of fun out of the whole experience.
  
  Beyond this, it's worth mentioning that the AI is just average. It deffinetly gets the job done 
 in representing a bunch of out-classed Western goons, and although that might be sufficient for 
 some, bear in mind that I was playing the game on the hardest difficulty and beat it as such, with 
 my only real trouble coming from falling deaths, scripted ambushes, and boss-fights. Truth be told, 
 the scattered men in saloons or caves, are easy prey on the hardest of difficulties especially 
 in the levels played as Reverend Ray. Nevertheless, there were times when I was pinned down, by 
 gunfire on all sides, and I felt like I was in a real western gun fight, popping above a crate 
 to fire two shots from a six-shooter before ducking under the return fire from size or so goons 
 in vantage points. In that way, the AI can deliver tha exhilarating western shootout experience, 
 but as said, that's only on it's best day. Other times, I had Iroquois simply chasing me, zombie-like, 
 with tomahawk in hand, as I simply ran backwards, shooting them dead as I did so. The AI makes 
 no evasive manoeuvres and takes no cover, unless cover has already been afforded to them as the 
 scripted programming intended. All in all, the AI is passable, but as you can see it certainly 
 leaves something to be desired. 
  
  More than this, several gameplay features in the game feel antiquated too. There's frequent use 
 of health bottles that heal you on pick up, and there's such expected things like secret wanted 
 poster pickups with pictures of the developers that kind of takes you out of the game. What's more, 
 there's a few really silly boss battles, and a potential for the game to get repetitive, as if 
 it were not for the story driving the experience, all you'd be doing is shooting, a duelling constantly. 
 Some have made a lot about the "platforming" elements in this game as well, but I actually enjoyed 
 those mostly. It lended a sort of adventure, or, Indiana Jones-esque feel to the game, which was 
 welcome and refreshing in a First Person Shooter.
  As a final word, there are things the game does wonderfully; representing the old west, and the 
 story itself are chief among them. There are also things the game does poorly, with repetitive 
 combat that's only made satisfying by the blood, poorly mapped stealth missions, and only average 
 AI among those detriments. In that sense, what it really comes down to is what you're willing to 
 deal with for the experience. For me, I put up with the rough stuff, and found a wonderfully told 
 story, with a decent adventure shooting game along side it that was, in some respects, a breath 
 of fresh air. 
  
  Often times people seem to say that different people will get different things out of games, and 
 for Call of Juarez this is the most true. I enjoyed it for the reasons I listed, but I see the 
 flaws in it as well. To me it was a decently good game, with some memorable moments, and is thereby 
 recommendable to anyone with the attachment that they themselves may like it less than I, or even 
 more.
  
  It's just one of those type of games, I confess.
  7.5/10
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: pitchblack3
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 6, 2008 1:15 am PT
Review:  FIrst off, the game lets you control two characters with different personalities and unsimilar 
 skills. When you play as young Billy Candle, it's usually got something to do with climbing and 
 sneaking. Meanwhile when you play as old man Reverend Ray, it's the action packed type of gaming 
 which we've been obviously expecting from this game.
  
  Graphics are awesome. You can feel the western world just like the ol' cowboy movies you used to 
 watch. There are mountains, forest paths, saloons, bad boyz in horses, and many more. 
  
  The background music is well put and chosen. Some make you feel tensed and some soothes your nerves. 
 Sound effects aren't that surprising since you just hear some curses and gunshots. 
  
  The game entertains you by it's cool gameplay features. Chasing a carriage while time pressured, 
 going head to head with an enemy in quick draw and sneaking past heavily armed Indians are just 
 some that'll make you occupied.
  
  Finally, the story. Every episode is clearly plotted and has it''s own theme. If you loved the 
 gameplay watched every cutscene and read bits and fragments of the storyline in the loading screen, 
 then you'll appreciate its sad, heroic story.
  
  One particular bad part of the game is that you should follow precisely what the developers' had 
 put up for you in a particular stage. Meaning when you're going down a mountain, a few meters of 
 fall would instantly kill you, hence you should follow the path without second options.
  
  All in all, a mixture of action, sneaking, and adventure, topped with an interesting story which 
 deserves a score of 8.5 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Night_hooligan
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 30, 2008 2:45 pm PT
Review:  x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x 
 x x x x x x
  
  "Yea, though I walk through the valley of the shadow of death, I will fear no evil, for I am the evilest 
 bastard in that valley!" 
  
  
  JOHN CONSTANTINE
  
  
  Ok this time I'm gonna be brief: 
  
  1. Don't trust Gamespot on this review. 
  2. Don't trust 
 other reviews. 
  3. Don't trust players reviews. 
  4. Just play the damn game. 
  5. Call of Juarez is something else. 
  
  As Billy is saying at the end: "If you don't like it 
 you can go to hell." 
  
  x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x 
 x x x x x x
  
  Call of Juarez Call of Juarez Call of Juarez Call of Juarez Call of Juarez 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nutcrackr
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 6, 2008 12:09 am PT
Review:  In Call of Juarez you play as two characters, Reverend Ray and Billy Candle. For the majority of 
 the game the former is out to get latter after a violent incident and a misunderstanding. This 
 is reflected by numerous chase scenes and in game cut scenes. Ray will cite religious verses during 
 the game, voiced superbly they add a special style to gunfights, you can cite your own during fights. 
 Ray is the master of weapons, he can slow time with dual pistols in focus mode to take out multiple 
 enemies as two crosshairs move towards the center of the screen, he also has heavy armor so can 
 withstand some damage. 
  
  Billy however is not armoured and can die quickly. He has a bow that he can also use in slow motion 
 to shoot opponents. His episodes feature some stealth sections, such as getting yourself inside 
 a shack without being spotted by a civilian, once spotted your position is reset for another attempt. 
 Fortunately there aren't many of these in the DirectX 10 version, and they are fairly easy. There 
 are also semi-stealth mission where Billy can use his bow from a distance and pick off bad guys, 
 keeping himself hidden, or he can run in and engage in pure action but his health will drop pretty 
 fast. Billy also has a whip to swing on branches and climb up or across ledges for the platforming 
 segments, although you will need to wait and point exactly at the branch, which removes some fluidity. 
 
  
  The graphic engine behind COJ is quite impressive; especially now when you can get a PC that will 
 run it maxed, somewhat less likely 1.5 years ago. Effects, draw distances, characters and foliage 
 are not far behind Crysis. Although many of the earlier missions don't seem to use the huge scale 
 engine as well as the later open level missions, this was probably done to control players and 
 show them more detail before letting them roam more freely. AI is quite competent in battle, they 
 don't stay still, they move to cover, and move about to get a good shot at you if you are hidden. 
 Some respawns aren't hidden well enough, when you trigger a zone enemies might just appear in front 
 of you, in general it's not a detriment to gameplay.
  
  The game doesn't save often in some sections, but quicksave is readily available for abuse. Enemies 
 will drop health pickups when you are closer to death so segments won't get ridiculously hard as 
 long as you pick these up often. The gunplay is very good, a few gimmicks like slowing time, quick 
 shooting and real bullet projectiles add to the feeling. You will also engage in a few stand offs, 
 using your mouse to draw a pistol and fire it before you get shot while in a stationary position. 
 Gunfights on horseback are done pretty well in the first person view, increasing the pace of the 
 game briefly. The game paces action, stealth and character split segments well. The placement of 
 ammo and weapons will encourage the use of different weapons and you won't be traversing the same 
 sections much even though one character is hot on the heels of the other.
  
  Call of Juarez seems to be quite underrated in the first person genre, it's a bit of a refreshing 
 setting, has some good gunplay elements preventing mediocre status. It has an enjoyable story and 
 engaging characters. There are no long, tedious segments and one can quite easily play continuously 
 without getting tired.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: jpph
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jun 22, 2008 5:42 pm PT
Review:  call of juarez is a western fps in which you play two characters, billy a boy on the run from the 
 other character, reverend ray. billy is a stealthy type while ray is the gun blazing type.
  i really enjoyed this game, partly because i like western stuff but it also has some real fun things 
 in it. the settings are mostly excellent, the voice acting is brilliant, especially ray and you 
 really get a sense of the environments and the wild west thanks to the music.
  to be honest, some of billys missions do suck, i found myself craving third person view for parts 
 where you have to jump or swing with the whip, but the storyline and most of all the real sense 
 of the locations carried me along through these parts quite happily. i really felt i was there 
 in a big desolate prairie or whatever.
  reverend rays missions are undeniably great fun. he can hold any combo of revolvers or a sawn off 
 in both hands, then theres a double barreled shotgun, a rifle, and his bible which he uses to distract 
 people. concentration mode is ridiculous, but daftly entertaining and the duels are superb.
  to summarise, 
  good: dialogue, acting, concentration mode
  great: settings, gunplay, storyline
 
  bad: billy, billys missions, character models, 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: 2G2
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 6, 2008 7:03 am PT
Review:  I was not sure how good a western first person shooter could be, and after playing Call of Juarez, 
 I am hooked. The game has a great storyline, and lots of interesting characters, and is a great 
 first person shooter. What I liked most is that you get to play more than one character back and 
 forth to help tell the story from different angles, and each character is a very different experience 
 and it is lots of fun to use their different skills. 
  
  The beginning is a little slow but once you go through your first standoff and use the slow motion 
 feature, this game takes you to the max payne days except it is a lot more fun in this game. All 
 action sequences are fun enough to want to replay them. 
  
  This is a great cinematic first person shooter that is very fun, exciting, and entertaining. I 
 really recommend it as it is a nice break from sci-fi shooters. 
  
  10/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dgsag
Rating: 8.5
Date: May 25, 2008 6:45 pm PT
Review:  Read the full review and score breakdown here:
  http://www. poland. us/strona,33,2608,0. html
  
  Polish developer Techland is known for some respectable games like Chrome, but its latest attempt 
 tries to bring the shooter genre into another setting.
  
  You play two characters in this game: one is named Billy Candle, who is a half-white, half-Mexican 
 drifter looking for the Lost Gold of Juarez. His life is thrown upside down when he finds his mother 
 and stepfather dead. The other character you play is named Reverend Ray, Billy's step-uncle and 
 town preacher who's dedicated to spreading the Lord's word, but when he sees Billy running away 
 from the bloody corpses of his brother and sister-in-law, Ray mistakenly goes after him for revenge.
 
  
  Unfortunately, the two characters aren't equal in terms of gameplay mechanics and pure fun. Ray 
 is easily the better one. Ray's entire appeal is epitomized by his "bible button.," where he reads 
 the bible to enemies and stuns them for several seconds. It's a quirky feature that doesn't really 
 make sense, but is a lot of fun. Other than that, he has a pair of six-shooters, which he can use 
 in combination with a "concentration mode" which lets you take down a bunch of enemies in a space 
 of several seconds. There are also some cool "dueling" sequences which focus on the boss fights. 
 Not very original, but fun
  
  Billy can is much less combat orientated, and focuses on some iffy first-person platforming and 
 stealth sequences. Billy uses shadows and environmental objects like bushes and boxes to hide behind. 
 Unfortunately, you're rarely well-armed enough to just power through the overly-long stealth sequences. 
 The platforming is quite a bit worse as its difficult to determine jumping distances in a first 
 person mode. The Indiana Jones-like whip-swinging ends up suffering from the same trial-and-error 
 problems
  
  What's a western without horses? Fortunately, the horseback riding is quite fun and only takes 
 a short while to master. There's some cool shooting scenes which also harken back to Indiana Jones 
 and Western movies
  
  The multiplayer is class-based. You can play as a rifleman, a gunslinger, a sniper, or a miner, 
 in modes like deathmatch, team deathmatch, capture the flag, VIP, etc. It's not to
  
  Call of Juarez is mostly great with its graphical presentation. Environments look beautiful and 
 easily capture the Old West look with great textures and nice lighting. Unfortunately, characters 
 look a bit ugly and have an aged look. Animations don't look that great either. DirectX 10 is supported 
 on the PC version, and it automatically makes the game look much better. The one thing that really 
 is disappointing is the abnormally long load times
  
  Audio sounds mostly great, with some nice environment sounds. Acting is a bit off, and Billy's 
 got the most disappointing voice acting
  
  The advantages between the PC and 360 version are unfortunately mixed. As expected, aiming and 
 movement is much easier with a mouse and keyboard, but aspects like the concentration mode and 
 horseback are much more clumsy. Also, none of the extra missions or gun duels that the 360 version 
 has are present in the PC version.
  
  Call of Juarez doesn't really change things around a lot, but it's a fun game and should be looked 
 at as a budget title.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: RedneckGamer87
Rating: 8
Date: May 5, 2008 10:18 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay: So in Call of Juarez, You play as young Billy Candle and the righteous Reverend Ray who 
 was a famous gunslinger, gone preacher and is also billy's uncle. Billy has been off searching 
 for the lost gold of Juarez, the same mythical stash that the Aztecs paid Cortez to free their 
 captured leader, Montezuma. It is said that the lost cursed treasure is buried somewhere in Juarez. 
 After searching without luck, Billy returns home to Hope, the small town that is about as hopeless 
 as it gets. Soon after a brief rendezvous with the local prostitute, Billy returns home to his 
 mother and abusive stepfather. There's only one problem -- they're dead. So begins the epic game 
 of cat-and-mouse that will touch upon just about every Western cliche out there, from the wise 
 old Indian sage to the sultry saloon prostitute to a train robbery to a stagecoach chase and, eventually, 
 to the lost gold of Juarez. In this game you get to use pretty much the same weapons as any western 
 like, revolvers, shotguns, winchesters and Bow and arrows. There is also a multuplayer which you 
 can play which is advantage over the xbox 360 version since if you allready have internet that 
 you can just play online immediatly whlie you still need to pay for playing online with the Xbox 
 360 version. I also like the controls better on the PC version since it's easier to control and 
 shooter compaired to the consol version.
  
  Graphics: I have to say that the graphics are really well done in this game. Everything is detail, 
 looks real and is colorful. The lighting and shadows are especially well done -- looking toward 
 the setting sun behind a mountain top is gorgeous. Character models and animations all look good, 
 and the game holds steady with a nice framerate. There are several problems, though. In dark environments, 
 the details are washed out and you can barely see your gun in front of your face
  
  Sound: The sound in this game are well done aswell. The soundtrack suits the game well and sound 
 effects and voice covers are really done well in this game.
  
  Value: All in all this is a fun game but it uses almost every western cliche out there. Wish they 
 could make a game that did not use so much steriotyping. So if you like western shooters or just 
 shooter games in general then you will probrably enjoy this game. The atmosphere is excellent, 
 thanks to a great cinematic score and a great variety of gameplay including horses, dueling, stealth 
 and flat-out action. Even though the PC version is missing out a few features from the Xbox 360 
 version it's still a fun game. I give this game 8.0 out of 10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: eddli
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 29, 2008 4:15 pm PT
Review:  Pros: Interesting storyline. I love the slow motion bow and arrow. Lots of weapons to use and good 
 gameplay that will certainly keep you entertained.
  
  Cons: Average graphics and yet uses insane amount of system performance. The game won't let you 
 shoot certain stuff like animals, if you do, game over for you baby. 
  
  Overall, People who loves western shooters should give it a try. I got it for free with an AMD 
 processor i ordered from Newegg so i can't really complain too much.
  
  OK. 100 words, omg, omg omg omg omg omg omg omg omg, omg omg omg omg omg omg omgomg, omg omg omg 
 omg omg omg omgomg, omg omg omg omg omg omg omgomg, omg omg omg omg omg omg omgomg, omg omg omg 
 omg omg omg omgomg, omg omg omg omg omg omg omgomg, omg omg omg omg omg omg omgomg, omg omg omg 
 omg omg omg omgomg, omg omg omg omg omg omg omgomg, omg omg omg omg omg omg omg 
::::::

::::::
UserName: WonderBread88
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 11, 2008 11:01 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay/Interface: 8.5/10
  - This is the first western FPS I've played. Story is certainly good and really keeps you going 
 to the end, unfortunately the game is rather short. The to characrers you play as are Billy and 
 Billy's uncle who is a preacher, suprisingly the preacher is the only fun character to play, Billys 
 style is complete stealth which is kind of odd for a western style game. The preacher, however, 
 is the one blowing people away. Radar is completely useless in the game. SOme of the puzzles can 
 leave you feeling uncertain as to what your ever suppose to do.
  
  Environment & Immersion: 6.5/10
  - Maps are pretty decently detailed but can be very miss-leading 
 as to where your supposed to go, even with the compass which might I add is of no help. The game 
 is quite easy to really get into and is addicting untill you get stuck at something and have to 
 retry till its boring. The best part of the game is the gun fights, theres just some thrill about 
 the slow mo shoot out or even just the fact that the shotgun deals a hilarious amount of force 
 against your enemies. The Innocent Person and corpse rule should have been optional under parental 
 controls. It was very annoying when you would be in a gun fight and you accidentally shoot a corpse 
 to many times or a victim out of nowhere and the game just ends.....
  
  Graphics/Physics: 8.5/10
  - Much better graphics than what I was expecting. The lighting was 
 almost perfectly done in this game. The amount of blood that spills out of people is almost a joke 
 when you can't even shoot a corpse without the game ending. Blood was still fun. Gun models could 
 have been a bit larger, I felt like every gun was the size of a derringer and that the derringer 
 felt like the "Cricket" from Men In Black. 
  
  Sound: 8/10
  - The voices were well done, the preacher really did sound like an old rustic, out-west preacher. 
 However, Billy didn't even sound Hispanic which was rather odd when there were other voices in 
 the game that were clearly Hispanic sounding. Gun and explosion sounds made the game all-that-more 
 entertaining.
  
  Bugs, Stability & Performance: 9/10
  - No bugs to be found, the loading screens on the other hand were sometimes strangly long, expecially 
 in the first half of the game. Some loading screens took almost 2 minutes to finish, at least there 
 were voice-cut-scenes to listen to while it loaded.
  
  Replay value: 8.5/10
  - I can completely see myself coming back to this game just for the gun fights. Multiplayer is 
 also fun just because its one long complicated shoot-out.
  
  Value for money: 6.5/10
  - For $30 I can't really complain to much, I do wish it had of been longer and that billy weren't 
 to have been all stealth. Its a so-so amount.
  
  Will this game be remembered by old school gamers as a classic after 10 years?:
  - Only for those 
 who are big into Western games. As where some other gamers way not even recall the name. 
  
  Who would I recommend to buy the game?:
  - Western fans, Any FPS gamer who is wanting to 
 try a different style other than the typicall modern, futuristic, or WWII game.
  
  -----------------------------------------------
  
  Overall: 8 - Fun Western style FPS. Great 
 shoot-outs and action, very boring stealth missions. Game should have also been a bit longer. I 
 would also say this game is often under-rated. This game is certainly a lot of fun, but just has 
 some slow parts. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: aspenmike
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jan 6, 2008 1:41 pm PT
Review:  This game would be great if it didnt have billy in it. The graphics are out standing for a came 
 that only takes up 1.8 Gb hard drive space. The game plays ok its not the best, the physics are 
 off and it failed at were half life 2 succeded as far as manipulating real life physics. This came 
 also has really crapey script and the acting was crap if ya want good acting get the getaway. All 
 in all this game is probley worth 20 USD at most. The shoot outs are fun but not like the westerns 
 i have seen, and beleive me i seen alot. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: VengfulOne
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 30, 2007 10:41 pm PT
Review:  I've been waiting for a good western shooter to come out for some time. I was excited about Gun 
 when I first heard about it but was disappointed after playing it. It wasn't a bad game but it 
 was definitely nothing special. Again I got excited when I played the demo of Call of Juarez. I 
 hoped Ubisoft would come through for me and make a great western shooter. Unfortunately this game 
 is not great but it is pretty good.
  
  Most the reviews I've read complained about the Billy character and his levels. And to a certain 
 extent I agree. Some of his levels can be boring, especially early on. I found myself trying to 
 rush through his levels to get to Reverend Ray. But as the game, and story, progressed I think 
 his missions became more entertaining. Early on you had to do a lot of sneaking and that wasn't 
 fun at all, but later on Billy gets to see some action and that helps.
  
  Which brings me to the best part of the game and that is Reverend Ray. He's a gunslinger turned 
 preacher turned gunslinger. Let's just say he is one bad mofo. He has quick draw (AKA bullet time) 
 with two guns at once which is a blast. He can also carry a rifle for ranged shooting and a shotgun 
 for close quarters. The shotgun is kind of pointless because you can use your quick draw pretty 
 much whenever you want. He also wears armor so he can take quite a beating. His character makes 
 this game worth buying.
  
  The graphics are good not great. The lighting is done well and so are the faces on most of the 
 characters. The environments can be kind of bland at times. Voice acting is OK while Reverend Ray 
 is by far the best of the bunch. He sounds like a man who means what he says.
  
  Unfortunately the game is rather short. I probably beat it in 6-8 hours on medium difficulty. On 
 the plus side the last few levels are very enjoyable and challenging. This may not be the awesome 
 western you were waiting for but it is a fun game and not as bad as most reviews would claim. And 
 it's only $20 now!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zakld
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 13, 2007 4:04 am PT
Review:  My marking system is as follows:
  
  I have to say I was a bit disappointed with this game. I was expecting it to be along the lines 
 of the game GUN, but it turned out to be pretty much completely linear, no choices and no freedom 
 of movement. 
  
  You switch between two characters and it doesn't give you enough time to get 'attached' to any 
 one character. Therefore, you don't get immersed in the game and don't really associate with the 
 character. 
  
  Now that's said, I must say that the switch between characters does refresh the game. If you use 
 just one character, the same problems that that character has to overcome again and again may become 
 boring. This way you have two characters with different paths towards the same finish line and 
 they choose different ways to get thee because they have different skills. So, some may find this 
 to actually be better. Personally, I would have prefered to play with just one character. 
  
  The game brings new ideas, innovations and many other improvements to this yet unexploited 
 genre.
  
  The graphics are quite gorgeous and it is a game worth playing. According to my own ranking system, 
 I am struggling to give it 8, because it is not really excellent, it is a good game and it is worth 
 your time but only as a back up game after you've finished the good games that you're playing right 
 now. It should definetely be played, but don't be in a rush to do so.
  
  Then again it does deserve a bit more than 7 as it is worth playing even if you have other games 
 to play, as many of the other games are liekly to be poorer. 
  
  Therefore, I have to say that the game deserves between 7.5 and 8 and I will give it 7.5 because 
 I was a bit disappopinted with the whole story and linearity of the game. 
  
  
  10 - Absolute Legend
  9 - Must Be Played
  8 - Excellent and Worth Your Time
  7 - Worth playing 
 if you have nothing else to play
  6 - worh playing if you have nothing to play and are incredbly bored and have not got absolutely 
 anything else to do. (Barely playable/enjoyable) . 
  
  I don't give marks 1-5 as if a game starts sucking I don't finish it, so I only review the games 
 that are barely playable (6) to the absolutely amazingly incredible ones (10)
  
  I will also probably keep my reviews short as I don't like discovering too much about the gameplay. 
 I only like to give my quick opinion and get on with life.
  
  Best Wishes to everyone
  
  Zak 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: supadave1
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 5, 2007 7:53 am PT
Review:  The Good: 
  Good time fun. I love playing between 2 characters. A stealthy like Billy and a gunslinging Ray. 
 This gave the game some diversity. The quick draw mode is just plain fun and I wish the game had 
 more. Billy's indiana jones like moves with a whip is also fun. Climbing eagle mountain was 100% 
 fantastic for the thrill and the views. The horseback riding and carriage chases were a blast. 
 Between the sneaking and the gunslinging I never got bored with this FPS. The voice acting was 
 solid as well. I felt it had a very good story. I love the genre to so that probably helped. The 
 graphics I found to be just fine. Sorry all you D10 lovers. D10 isn't all the rage just yet. This 
 D9. C game delivered just fine.
  
  The Bad:
  Some of the chapters got a little repetitive at times. Little too much sneaking in a couple areas 
 from Billy and not enough whip climbing/Indiana jones like stuff. Not enough quick draw showdowns. 
 Those are a blast! A single player or multiplayer quickdraw tournament mode would of been a blast. 
 A few more weapon options would be nice to. A little more cinematic ending would of felt like a 
 better payoff as well. I enjoyed it, but it could of been a bit longer.
  
  Overall:
  Solid game. Definitely one that should not be overlooked too soon. It takes a few chapters to really 
 start hooking you in with the story and introduce you to the advanced controls and such. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lorddessan91
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 18, 2007 2:46 am PT
Review:  Well, the game has a very interesting story, the gameplay is great, I felt the revolvers in my hands... the 
 slow time moments are just great, the last slow moment when you're killing the boss before he hurts 
 the boy was very exciting. The game is beautiful there was something I didn't realize... why the 
 enviroment is well done and beautiful, but the people's faces were ugly and not so well done... But 
 I had very good time during my play and that's because there are not many games during the "Wild 
 West". I liked the characters and the difference between the gameplay with father, or with the kid... but 
 I think the game worths the playing
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: VercettiTommyy
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 11, 2007 10:29 am PT
Review:  Techland kindda disappointed us with Chrome, so they made this superb western FPS that I believe 
 is the best FPS ever made, along with STALKER Shadow of Chernobyl, Bioshock & Call of Duty 4.
  The game was released in September 2006, so I still don't get it why Gamespot didn't review that 
 version & delayed the review with ONE YEAR!!!
  First thing firs: the graphics are absolutelly superb even now,& back than they were the best, even 
 better than in Oblivion. Environment, textures & a breathtaking Depth of Field effect...
  The music is absolutely great,& all the sound effects & voice acting (especially Ray's) are absolutelly 
 stunning!
  You'll play the hunter & the hunted. Ray, a priest that was a bandit in the past thinks his relative, Billy, a 
 young native indian, has commited a crime, & tries to revenge his brother. But Billy didn't do it. Add 
 the curse of Juarez, a town where gold was burried, that was believed to have been given as a ransom 
 for Montezuma,& the best Wild Western atmosphere (& not only...) .
  As Ray, it's all abot shooting & reading fragments from The Holly Bible (great idea!) . The weapons 
 degrade & even break when used to much. Add a great shooting control on dual wield & a kind of slow-motion 
 ability.
  As Billy, you get to sneak a lot, climb a lot & a very important object in the inventory is the whip. If 
 only the sneaking system would have been better... it"s childish, at least in the European version.
 
  Well, it surely is the best Wild West adventure,& one of the best FPS-s of all times. Don't trust 
 Gamespot... try it."& if you don't like it, you can go to hell" (Billy)
  
  PS: It's not my quote, so don't blame me if you don't like it. Blame Billy! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tenstorey
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 29, 2007 3:42 am PT
Review:  I have just completed this game and I have to say it has been one of the best game experiences 
 I have had in a long time. Being in Europe I had to wait an age for the DX10 patch for the game 
 which thankfully also fixes some of the gameplay issues with the character Billy. (He is now alot 
 more interesting to play) The atmosphere of the game drives you forward, with the character Reverend 
 Ray being especially enjoyable to play. Its a game in which you feel for the characters as it sucks 
 you into the storyline and keeps a hold of you. Some of the puzzles are not too clear but persistence 
 pays dividends but there are none that will put you off playing the game. Graphically its a feast 
 for the eyes in DX10 altough it looks great in DX9 too. Overall I have to say this game is a must 
 play, but if you have the European release remember to patch it to appreciate it fully! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: knitecrow007
Rating: 7
Date: Oct 7, 2007 11:48 am PT
Review:  Call of Juarez tries a different take on the first person genre by setting it in the old west; 
 a welcome change from the typical si-fi/war themes that exist. The most striking feature of the 
 game are its graphics and they are good. In particular, the lighting effects and high dynamic used 
 makes everything seem more natural. Going beyond graphics and western setting, Call of Juarez is 
 surprisingly average despite all the numerous minor additions to game play. For example, two protagonists 
 that you alternate between, quick-draw matches with end bosses, ability to ride horses (even though 
 they may be sparse) . Ultimately the blame can be laid on the main story, which is not strong enough 
 to set it apart from other shooters, and the level design, which again is not original/unique enough. 
 There are exceptions, such as the part where you search for Juarezs gold but most levels are quite 
 bland.
  
  That it not to say this is a bad game, it is just an average shooter in an very crowded market. 
 The single player campaign will keep players interested for its span. A worthy rental for the FPS 
 fan but not worth owning.
  
  7.0 / 10
  
  Visit my gaming site:
  www. gamingdump. com 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Strang3l
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 18, 2007 1:48 pm PT
Review:  Call of Juarez takes you back to the old west once again and pulls it off nicely. For those of 
 you who played Gun and Red Dead Revolver and still want more campy cowboy action you'll get it 
 here. However, CoJ adds the element of stealth, in the form of Billy Candle, which breaks up the 
 monotony of running and gunning constantly. I believe this helps make Ray (the gunner) much more 
 fun to play than if it was just him throughout the story. The gameplay is varied and tense and 
 takes you through classic old west scenarios and situations as well as new ones. There were many 
 control/ gameplay glitches reported but I've experienced none of them. Switching between the different 
 play styles comes very easily. I did have my fair share of tumbles down the mountain before I learned 
 to feel out the cliff jumping and whip swinging, though. The graphics shine in many areas, especially 
 scenery, but the characters (mostly the males) were fugly looking. The sound was to par. An old 
 west themed soundtrack and plenty of realistic sound effects added much to the game. CoJ is very 
 short but I was left satisfied at the end and felt like I was done with it. I am not one who likes 
 to spend 200 hours in any game (well, there's been a couple) and moved on with a smile. I didn't 
 check out the multiplayer. At the time of this writing CoJ is priced around 30 bucks. If you like 
 the wild west atmosphere (which I do) and some variation in your gameplay (yep) it's a good deal 
 for the money. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NEMESIS2008
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 14, 2007 12:53 am PT
Review:  Call Of Juarez is a Great game for PC.
  But as I said it has some issues..
  and it's all about the young man .. Jimmy.
  Jimmy doesn't has a lot of shoot levels
  and when 
 he has .. it's rarely
  Jimmy levels has a lot of stealth which would be very boring when you decided to buy and play a 
 first person shooter game.
  
  The Graphics in Call of Juarez is amazing when you run it on a good video card. I can't describe 
 how amazing it is but it's very very nice.
  The soundtracks are pretty good for the game and the sounds are fine
  
  The game play is very 
 good . like you can shoot with 2 guns or 1 and shoot with the one you want and reload it.
  ( it's very nice for a first person shooter game )
  
  The game sometimes I find it hard.. some 
 times very easy
  
  I didn't test the multi-player yet but I think it will be good
  
  Thanks for reading my review.. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bhomer
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 30, 2007 6:13 am PT
Review:  If you love westerns, ignore every bad review you see for Call of Juarez... the game rocks. My tilt 
 factor for westerns is a 10, so keep this in mind. I liked switching back and forth between Billy 
 and Reverend Ray. The bible in one hand, gun in the other verse-quoting Reverend Ray is worth the 
 price of the game alone. If you're good at first person shooters, the game is relatively easy on 
 a PC and I imagine it's even easier on X360. Regardless, the bullet time is great fun - Reverend 
 Ray is wicked deadly with his fastdraw. For western shooters, Gun is more fun, but Call of Juarez 
 feels like being in an epic Western movie, while Gun's GTA style gameplay doesn't feel like being 
 in a movie, but is still very fun. It all depends on what mood you're in and how much you like 
 westerns. If you love westerns, get the game - you won't be disappointed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ish_gibbor
Rating: 7.5
Date: Aug 19, 2007 9:57 pm PT
Review:  After beating most every game available for the 360, I appreciate the release of the Call of Juarez. 
 Although I am not fond of the old west, I enjoyed playing this game. With two six shooters, a long 
 dark trench coat, and an old plain bible, I am prepared to mow-down an infinite number of hell-spawn 
 sinners. I can see desert shrub, sparse trees, plenty of nice looking rocks, and beautiful skies. 
 Dust lifting off the ground and moving through the dank air like smoke trailing from a cigarette. 
 There is a distant shriek of a hungry vulture waiting for death, my deathrepeatedlyye an unforeseen 
 force resurrects me each time. This is the life of Ray, an ex-gun slinger, turned preacher, now 
 out for revenge. Convinced that God wants him to kill the sinners from hell; he opens an old dusty 
 box, and reunites with his old friends, the revolvers. Sneaking around, solving puzzles, and trying 
 to stay alive is the life of Billy Candle, a not so bright, young, half-white half-Mexican kid. 
 Playing as Billy Candle, helps break up the non-stop gun slinging action while playing as Reverend 
 Ray. Graphics: The rocks look nice and I hope to see more like them in other games. Everything 
 from explosions, fire, water, dust, glass, wood, look up to 360 standards. Peoples faces and their 
 animations also look good. The environments are bland; constantly reminding me that I was playing 
 a video game. Sound: For the most part the voice acting is well done. Although, through out the 
 game there are sounds I felt like I should be hearing. Gameplay: The gameplay and story is what 
 carries this game along. Sure, the gameplay is not revolutionary and even easily forgotten, yet 
 I will remember that I had fun playing the Call of Juarez. I can easily recommend that you rent 
 this game; however, I cannot recommend that someone purchase itat least not for full price. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ricwhite
Rating: 4.5
Date: Aug 12, 2007 1:32 pm PT
Review:  I played this game with on a Dell XPS system with a core 2 6600 cpu, 2gb of RAM and a Nvida GeForce 
 640mb 8800 series graphics card I was hoping to finally try a dx10 game. Alas, I was unable to 
 run it in dx10 mode, which was a big disappointment. My native resolution on my 24 monitor is 
 1920 x 1200, but even reducing the resolution greatly, turning off all AA, turning down the shadows 
 and reducing the textures levels, it just sputtered along, sometimes less than 10 frames per second. 
 I gave up, and, instead, opted for the dx9 mode which I was able to max out on the settings. Obviously 
 the game was not optimized correctly for dx10.
  
  The game itself was very short. I would estimate around 10 hours and that is with the redos after 
 dying and the somewhat mundane chase sequences. The game was extremely lineal in nature requiring 
 precise triggers of scripted events. Deviating even slightly from the prescribed methods resulted 
 in failure of the objectives. Because of that design, many of the blocking methods used to prevent 
 the player from deviating from the path appeared very unnatural and awkward.
  
  There are many examples of glitches that occurred in the game. A good example that comes to mind 
 is when Ray was tracking down Billy and arrives with the rangers at a ranch where Billy is supposedly 
 staying. As the character of Ray, I tried to go around the fence to flank the enemy, but immediately 
 got a failure message. The only allowed script is to walk directly through the front gates. 
 I eventually chased Billy through a corn field. When he emerged, he got on a horse and left. Ray 
 was supposed to chase him on horseback with a countdown timer on screen. By the horses were two 
 enemies. I decided to kill the enemies BEFORE I triggered the timer  which I did. Then I walked 
 to the horse. But the timer never triggered. According to the script the timer has to be triggered 
 BEFORE the enemies were killed or it wouldnt work. Redo. When I finally chased Billy on horseback, 
 I came to a part where an enemy was stationed on a ledge. I decided just to sneak past the enemy 
 rather than engage. But I kept getting a failure notice. So, I decided to kill the enemy which 
 triggered a game script so I could continue with the game. Another time I was chasing Billy, I 
 saw a horse lying in a ditch. As I looked closer, I recognized a person next to the horse dead. 
 It was Billy. I kept going but never found another Billy. I eventually got a failure message 
 and I had to redo the section. Thankfully, the next time Billy didnt die. Odd. All of these examples 
 were within a 30 minute section of the game. Overall, there were dozens of such problems. I used 
 the expression yeah, right often in this game. There are many sections that are repetitive and 
 boring  especially the puzzle stealth sections. The leaping, jumping, swinging, sneaking sections 
 were poorly designed in my opinion. Redoing a stunt via trial and error was common and caused the 
 game to get rather boring. On several of the swinging over gaps sections, you have place the whip 
 precisely on a part of the limb in order to make it over. It is hard to estimate exactly where. 
 Sometimes it took several tries to get it on the precise spot. The game was also very unrealistic 
 the way ledges and tree limbs were unnaturally placed and the way inside mines and caves were totally 
 lighted somehow. The game felt. . . cheap. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Star_Wars117
Rating: 7.3
Date: Aug 11, 2007 10:15 am PT
Review:  Gameplay: Set in the late 1800's. Your a crazy preacher who thinks god tells him to cleanse the 
 town of non believers and a Boy named Billy who is on the run from the law. The preeacher missions 
 are fun with lots of gunplay but stealth mission are a pain to do. They are boring and uneventful.
 
  
  Graphics: Graphics are worthy of the next-gen title and are very polished and detailed. Amazing 
 Enviroments and detail on charcters.
  
  Sound: Taken from old west movies and such. Guns sound just like its real life gun and voice acting 
 is good to. The old west music is fun to listen to while killing loads of enemys.
  
  Value: The game is about 15 hours long and is 39.99 for PC and 59.99 for xbox 360 version overall 
 go with the PC.
  
  Controls: They are good with the run and gun gameplay missions but when it comes to stealth missions 
 they are a bit clunky and spread out on the keyboard which makes it hard to do some of the crazy 
 jumps you need to complete.
  
  The Good: Great Gameplay and Graphics
  
  The Bad: Bad Controls for stealth missions
  
  The Ugly: None 
::::::

::::::
UserName: siiixon
Rating: 1.3
Date: Jul 29, 2007 1:52 pm PT
Review:  seriously guys its 2007, for $50 why would you buy a game that would be decent MAYBE 2004, when 
 i 1st loaded this game my chin fell down, i could not believe how horrid the physics and graphics 
 in this game are, to few features all this game has to offer that it is a western shooter with 
 is rare, i really cant say much more i had to force my self to play its sooo bad, guys there is 
 a demo i highly recommend to play with this before buying, to me this game is a shocker and a joke 
 , but at a price tag of $50 is not even funny but sad, i encountered how ever no bugs or technical 
 problems, game runs very fast with is understandable considering the half decade old graphics + 
 physics quality, stay away from this game unless you get it free or try demo 1st 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Recondite505
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jul 23, 2007 9:24 am PT
Review:  Bought this one a week ago. Beat it yesterday. I usually like RPGs but bought this one since I 
 enjoyed Gun II so much I was hoping for something like that. Wasn't dissapointed with this and 
 it held my attention throughout... The sound and graphics are the strongest parts of this game. 
 And it was refreshing to play something that actually worked with Windows VIsta after struggling 
 through Gothic 3. The length of the game is it's biggest weak point and the gameplay wasn't exactly 
 what I was hoping for but it was tolerable. A little on the short side but worth the money and 
 I would recommend it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Valkyrie_44
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 20, 2007 11:12 pm PT
Review:  Graphics:
  - Graphically the game is really nice, the lighting and ambiance really does this title favors. 
 The character models look and interact well with the environment. The level design albeit in most 
 the game is linear it does not cheapen the game's design, and feel in those areas.
  
  Sound:
  - The ambiant audio is very nice, espcially in the areas with stormy weather, the voice 
 acting compliments the title well. The sounds from weapons fire offers a good abundance of alterative 
 sounds to add distinctiveness to the offered weapon types.
  
  Gameplay:
  - Gameplay in this game I have seen has turned some people away, for me it was a huge plus in my 
 book. The change between both of the characters you play, offers a little stealth action, platforming, 
 and a first person Tomb Radier / Indiana Jones gameplay. The gunfighter's style of play being very 
 forward, with more of the usage of gunplay, and the usage of the in game's version of bullet time. 
 The subltites between both character's are very pronounced, and does not detract or bore me from 
 the game. In fact I find this as one of the game's most positive traits.
  
  Technical:
  - From a technical aspect in DX9c, (I have not tried the DX10 version because the lack of a DX 
 10 card presently.) Technically, this game is very well done, Techland really done well on this 
 game. It ran extremely well on Windows XP, and still did quite handsomely in Windows Vista, in 
 fact I have not noticed any alterations in the performance to a different OS. The last couple of 
 patches for my version one added an official map pack, while the other fixed some net code issues, 
 and added some anticheat features. From my point of view the successive patching was good, but 
 from the initial release the game was already in very good shape. Overall Impressions:
  - When this game intially arrived at my home in November 2006 with my ATI X1950XTX, I had my doubts, 
 and pretty much written it off as crap. First off it was developed by a company I had never heard 
 of, never heard anything in the previews, and lastly it came to my possession without a developers 
 label from Gigabyte. After Installation, and tweaking up the graphics, I was greatly shocked by 
 the atmosphere and the look of the game. I wasn't really a big fan of Gun, and westerns in general, 
 this was mostly due due to my dad's love of Gun smoke and Bonanza, he would watch both of those 
 shows constantly when we were kids during Saturday morning cartoons. This game offered a lot more 
 of a grit, and strong presence, the storyline was excellent, and the shifting storylines between 
 both of the main characters kept the game from becoming another monotonous first person shooter. 
 The multiplayer aspect was a hit and miss bag, I found that joining a game was good, and quite 
 engaging, and the netcode to be very stable. Hit detection was good as well, and nce teamwork came 
 into play, the group you are with would find the momentum very progressive. On the other hand, 
 the negative aspect with my version, note I do not know if this is a direct translation to the 
 US version, the multi play lacked for more alternatives in play, I would've liked increased map 
 sizes, and more weapons / classes would've really put this game on a different stage. Overall, other 
 than a few very minor shortcomings this is definitely one of those sleeper hits I suggest you experience 
 for yourself. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: krazyorange
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jul 10, 2007 2:02 pm PT
Review:  I won't spend long on this review because, to be completely honest, I don't believe Call of Juarez 
 deserves much time. Being a fan of Western shootout games such as Gun, I expected to some degree 
 that Juarez would follow in the footsteps of its predecessors and include six-shooter battles and 
 mistresses in distress. Not only are those included in copious amounts, frustratingly-numerous 
 platforming segments are thrown in to break up the action and take Juarez from first-rate FPS to 
 third-tier action-adventure mess. In short, Call of Juarez is not a good game.
  
  This game has unbridled potential and it is so shameful to bog it down with sneaking, puzzles, 
 and whip-jumping that it physically hurts to play this game for very long. Within the first fifteen 
 minutes of gameplay, I was tasked with sneaking out of a town, where if I was seen, it was instant 
 death via long-range carbine shots. However, I played through this sequence and was rewarded with 
 even more stealth play to locate ammunition, then I switched perspectives to the Reverend Ray and 
 was forced into a number of timed-chase bits. Not only did the profanity flow freely, my expectations 
 and enjoyment followed. If you have had the pleasure of my previous reviews, you are fully aware 
 that I despise platforming in my action games, as I have never, ever experienced the two blended 
 to effective results. Juarez is absolutely no exception.
  
  Luckily, if you and your keyboard can survive the platforming elements, Juarez features plenty 
 of exhilarating gun battles which are served up amongst a fantastic plot and story line. The spoken 
 dialog is absolutely a blast to hear, as the actor portraying Reverend Ray is by far the best I 
 have encountered and furthers the immersion into the Western settings. The graphics are top-notch 
 and I experienced no slowdown or framerate drops on a 7600GT with one gig of RAM and an Athlon 
 64 3500+ playing at 1024x768 with most settings on high.
  
  Call of Juarez is a case study in why mixing genres is a bad idea, and especially two genres so 
 opposite that their fan bases are marked enemies of one another. If I'm playing a first-person 
 shooter, I do not want to solve environmental puzzles or sneak out of towns; I want to shoot enemies 
 in the face again and again. Some may enjoy the blending, but I cannot condone this growing trend. 
 To the next developer keen on merging genres: don't. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GentleSenator
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jul 8, 2007 1:41 pm PT
Review:  I feel the GS review is a bit too harsh. This game was quite fun, and the switching between the 
 two quite different characters makes for some great diverse action. The graphics are also quite 
 gorgeous. What makes the game stand out the most is it's cinematic quality. The voice acting, score, 
 and writing are top notch. Once the climax/twist comes to, all of this does fall a bit short. I 
 would have liked some more depth and explanation. Otherwise, I'd definitely recommend this game 
 to anyone who enjoys Western, FPS, Action/Adventure, or just a good cinematic gaming experience.
 
  
  Technically, the game's sound could use some work. EAX appears to be broken, and the surround never 
 really works right. Quality in center channel was quite shoddy. Had to resort to using a stereo 
 sound on 5.1 system to get best quality. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spacedog1973
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 5, 2007 2:56 pm PT
Review:  Saying that this game is tight is an understatement. No, its not tight, its tighter that a gnat's 
 ass, and thats beyond tight.
  
  Ok, lets spill the real..... the graphiics in this game - OWN. The first time you start and see 
 the bright blue open skies, the hazy sunshine, the glowing grass, you feel that you wanna just 
 lie back in the sun and relax.
  
  Its so immersive, well done to the devlopers. You can't touch the graphics. Saying this though, 
 lets be honest, to get the best out of graphic intensive games, you're gonna need a decent graphic 
 card, without one, I'd imagine this game could be viewed as just average. So, the graphics here 
 are an integral part of the game, you live it, feel it, BECOME the characters.
  
  Now lets talks about the characters. The PRIEST and the BOY. The priest, for anyone who has not 
 seen a Western with all the stereotypes, is a drinking repentant warmonger, with the fastest gun 
 in the West, changed though and now humble, trying to get 'right with the Lord'. Oh, he hates it, 
 but boy can he shoot! You'll carry guns and a Bible on your journey. guess which one creates the 
 most fun?
  
  The BOY... well he is a stealther; weak, sneaky horsethief with a brain cell that only President 
 Bush would envy. You play the boy playing a fugitive while the Rev'rend chases him. This means 
 two stories, the pursued and the pursuer. The voice acting is king and fits in well with both stories 
 and characters. I can't rreally say enough about this game. This is the standard that games should 
 aim for. there should be a bar: Below Call of Juarez and we can't give the game a licence..
  
  Now that would make these websites obsolete. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: blake_shortland
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jul 3, 2007 7:35 am PT
Review:  In a nut shell Call of Juarez has more going for it than against it. Most of the reviews going 
 around single out Billy's sections of the game as a little tacked on and frustrating and, in some 
 part, this is true but I personally only found this to be overwhelmingly true in one level.
  
  If you like Splinter cell or Thief then Billy's sections will have some appeal as they employ 
 the same kind of 'Stealth 'em up' you will find there.
  I found this to be an effective diversion from the run and gun method that the good reverend Ray 
 enjoyed as he dispelled hot godly retribution upon the masses.
  
  There are some fisticuffs on offer here as well and while they do feel a bit 'ho hum' they are 
 done effectively and don't crop up enough to be a problem.
  
  Graphically the game is amazing. I experienced none of the frame rate issues Ive been reading 
 about and my system in by no means from the top shelf (AMD 4000, Leadtek 7800 extreme 512, 2 GB 
 Ram) . I had everything cranked up and the game loved me for it.
  
  The character models are great but seemed textured a little on the dark side thus surrendering 
 any real feel of emotion. The music is also fantastic. Some real moody and relevant stuff going 
 on throughout.
  
  I did, however, hear some strange out of place SFX when running through grass that caused me to 
 constantly swing around looking for a victim.
  
  The game as a whole is a little short and could have done with a few more levels with the reverend.
 
  
  All in all I highly recommend this title. Not enough Westerns out there and this one will look 
 and play well for some time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lytnin
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jul 1, 2007 7:40 am PT
Review:  A sweet little shooter this one is. The wild west gunplay is really well done. Showdowns seem to 
 be more of a nusciance than they are worth and the final one is buggy. Once you've beaten the game 
 you can go to the LOAD screen and select any of the episodes to replay, allowing you to skip the 
 puzzle-oriented Billy missions and just play the body-dropping Ray missions. This also allows you 
 to go back to any point in the game and look for the elusive secrets they leave scattered around. 
 Even then, though, once you've beaten an episode twice it really loses it's luster. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Billius8
Rating: 7
Date: Jun 30, 2007 7:14 pm PT
Review:  From the time I played Lucas Arts' OUTLAWS back in the late 1990's, I have wanted another great 
 western RPG to play. Call of Juarez seemed to be it... until I bought the game and played it.
 
  
  What I see is a very linear, scripted out game that pretty much walks you through every contrived 
 micro-managed action you are intended to take. While Lucas Arts' Outlaws gave you levels to shoot 
 up (your way) and solve before moving on to the next, Call of Juarez holds your hand and and it's 
 basically, move the box, climb on top of the box, now jump through the window, now search for the 
 gun, now go find some bullets. Follow the numbers, da-da-da.
  
  I don't mind levels being laid out in a linear pattern, but let me walk into a town and resolve 
 conflicts my way. Don't tell me I have to talk to the barmaid, climb though a window, search for 
 a gun, get chased out of the room, sneak through an alley, all in that order and ONLY in that order. 
 That might be fun, ONCE. But replayability is shot to pieces.
  
  Heck, you'd might as well be an actor in a film, following the plot, step by step. There's no freedom 
 in what could have been a great game.
  
  When will dev's learn that overly forced linear gameplay ruins everything? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dennu
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 30, 2007 2:28 am PT
Review:  First I started the game. When I saw the loading time, I was like Oh hell, is this gonna take this 
 long? Well its just the 1st load, the others will be shorter . And whopsie I was wrong, the loading 
 times are horrible :D.
  
  For a person with nothing to do while loading that is hell, but the story tellings of the characters 
 in the loading screen kill some time and make the loading more enjoyable.
  
  And from that we come to the voice acting. In my opinion the voices are well made and enjoyable, 
 especially the 1st farm you encounter to. The guy speaks with a nice southern accent if I remember 
 correctly.
  
  And the gameplay is very well made, I liked it. Like in the beginning you are going to get blowed, 
 when some guys run into your room. When you are supposed to escape, there is no video or anything. 
 This made it even more enjoyable. And I love this slow motion dual revolver slings 12 shots in 
 someone's face, what a pleasure to see them flying away ^.^
  
  But a few times in the game you are totally lost and dont know what to do. But that's not a big 
 problem, you'll figure out those things soon.
  
  And the graphics, when I first loaded the game I was like Arghh the lag, please someone stop it 
 . The game seems to require quite high end stuff, but it is possible to play it on a medium and 
 medium-low ends but still not losing the beauty of the game graphics.
  Well althou the plains and fields with a lot of bushes and plants cause a lot of lag too. So just 
 keep looking down and it wont lag :D. And later in the game you will encounter the Eagle Rock or 
 Mountain, and I can say it is beautiful and there is a very nice view. But no more spoilers!
  
  Overall this game is good, I could maybe play it through again sometime, and there is some 
 things that make this game unique and original. And I couldnt have ever thought I would like a 
 game with a western twist, but it surprised me and I loved it. Although it is very linear and there 
 is absolutely no freedom, like in Half Life. A huge con althou is that the game is quite short, 
 it will provide you a few days of gameplay but the episodes run out quickly :' (
  
  But it is definetly worth your money and time if you like this kind of games. And there is a multiplayer 
 too, you can play Counter Strike with a western theme like someone said :D. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Xcelerate
Rating: 7
Date: Jun 29, 2007 8:56 am PT
Review:  Call of Juarez is a first-person shooter set in the Wild West, a much needed relief from the WWII 
 and modern combat games we've been bombarded with the past year. CoJ delivers in creating the Wild 
 West setting, with great graphics, a nice atmosphere, authentic weapons, and some sometimes fun 
 gun-slinging duels.
  
  You follow the path of two characters: the young teenager Billy Candle and the self-righteous Reverend 
 Ray. The former is on the run from the Reverend, the law, from just about everyone because of a 
 suspected murder he committed. The latter is chasing Billy to avenge that murder. Playing as Reverend 
 Ray is all about shooting, killing everyone in your way as you chase Billy. For the Reverend, weapons 
 come as a variety of old West pistols and a few shotguns. Combat is intense throughout most of 
 the game, but offers no variety than the standard kill-everyone-in-sight.
  
  Meanwhile, playing as Billy is a different story. You are running from everyone, so hiding and 
 jumping puzzle games are the main goals. Because Billy is 'weaker' and not as skilled, you are 
 to avoid most combat situations. Playing as Billy is a tedious affair of sneaking and hiding. Even 
 in cases where you can effectively kill an opponent without the camp noticing, the game forces 
 you to reload because you are supposed to sneak. That just kills any sort of exploration and freedom 
 in completing the storyline. Billy can pick up the same variety of weapons as Reverend Ray, however 
 due to limited ammo and the need to sneak, combat situations are scarce. Billy's main 'weapon' 
 is his whip, which he can use to swing from branches and complete other boring puzzles.
  
  Multiplayer was fun for a while, and a good break from the usual AK-47s and glocks that fill almost 
 every other FPS game today.
  
  Technical-wise, loading games and loading areas are long affairs. You might as well make some tea 
 and a bagel while waiting for the game to load, even on a more powerful computer. However, graphics 
 are great, and sound is decent.
  
  Ultimately, the linear path you are forced to take mars any chance of replaying the game's story, 
 especially with the tedious sneaking and jumping games of Billy. The game is a good once-through 
 run-through, but not good for much else. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: solfort
Rating: 1
Date: Jun 28, 2007 10:52 am PT
Review:  i was playing a very good game, until i came to the black screen many are complaining about. read 
 the forums before purchasing, problem is widespread, with no patches! not my system because i was 
 able to play thru ~ 1/4 of the game. it can also cause some quirks to your system which are reversible 
 through a previous restore point. i tried all the suggestions, tips, etc. on the forum, as others 
 did, to no avail. some did get help directly via e-mail from Juarez Support, but Support will not 
 post it for some reason and i am still waiting for a reply via e-mail, but i'm not holding out 
 any hopes. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PoP999606
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jun 28, 2007 10:10 am PT
Review:  The wester isn't exactly a popular theme when it comes to games. Ocassionally a great one hits 
 stores but most aren't much of stand-out titles. Games like GUN and the classic Outlaws proove 
 that it's all possible, but is Call of Juarez one of those titles.
  
  You hate me and I hate you even more
  
  The premise behind CoJ except for the western theme 
 is the fact that you can play as two completly difrent characters. The first one is Billy a half 
 mexican that has left his home town of Hope years ago to get rid of his violent steapfather and 
 maybe get rich by finding the legendary gold of Juarez. The game sets of with Billy returning home 
 emptyhanded to see his mom. After a slight incident in town Billy gets to his parents ranch only 
 to find them murderd and the words Call of Juarez writen on the wall. Coincidently at the moment 
 Billy is looking at his dead parents the other playble charachter comes in, reverand Ray, the town's 
 preacher with a past as an outlaw. And Ray happens to be Billy's stepuncle. Seeing Billy paniced 
 and his brother dead Ray thinks Billy killed his own parents, one of those No uncle it's not what 
 it seems scenerios. So the whole game you'll be playing as Ray trying to catch Billy and kill every 
 sinner he can find in the proces and as Billy running away from his stepuncle. The premise is great 
 and the story while ocassionally with some clichees is entartaning while it lasts. You'll go thru 
 a lot of western places like the dusty old town and robbed train, metting along the way with western 
 caharacters like indians and corupt lawmen. The overall setting and generall feel are spot-on, 
 but how do the characters play out?
  
  A Colt and a Bible
  
  The first charachter and the most entertaining one is Ray. Ray is the kind of shoot anything evil 
 in the name of the Lord kind of guy. In other words when playing with Ray expect to kill a lot 
 of hombres and I mean a lot. Because the setting is the old west the guns you encaunter are very 
 realistic from six-shooters to rifles they go way beyond the tipical FPS and it'a a relife from 
 the UZZI we're all getting tired of allready. This makes the shoot-outs more realistic with guns 
 that can't fire 20 shots; and a nother cool thing is that the guns can explode if over-used, so 
 be aware if you see smoke comming out of your tools of Sata... God. The hobres you'll encounter 
 aren't push-overs, they'll run for cover when they have to and don't just eat bullets, don't take 
 me wrong here they won't go flanking you now and the're not as agresive as the merks in Far Cry 
 but they do an impressive job of not making the expirience seem scripted. Oh and did I mention 
 that Ray can hold his bible in one hand and his gun in the other so he can spread the word of the 
 Lord and some led in the same time. The Bible can make the enemyes a little more docile but it's 
 better to have two guns instead of one. Like that old suthern saying Double the gun double the 
 fun .One other interesting thing about Ray is the quick-draw feature, where you can quickly take 
 out your guns and kill you enemyes in slow-motion. Oh and usually the Ray chapters end with a wester 
 duel where you face-off against certain enemyes, now that's western authentycity.
  Overall the Ray sections are blast to play, the western atmosphere combined with unic guns, smart 
 enemyes, duels and bibles make Ray a very entertaining padre to play as. It' Billy that.......
 
  
  I was lost in the mountins one day
  
  Billy is the stealthy kind of guy who is nowhere near as tough as Ray and concidering that the 
 whole world is out to get him his only chance is to hide and to trust his life to the shadows. 
 That sounds like an interesting premise and a new take on the western theme. Because when it comes 
 to western, people think of some guy with a Colt, Teachland went in a diferent direction with Billy 
 making him seem like an indian with a whip and (far too rearly) a bow. The first moment with Billy 
 seemed fine, beeing a stealth fan I apriciated it, but soon the fact that you can't know how far 
 you enemyes can see and the your limiting first-person perspective hit me. That along with constant 
 trial and error and enemyes that are better off knowing who to shoot instead of searching for their 
 target made it clear that the design in the Ray sequinces are above Billy. But wait trial and error 
 is comon for stealth games and CoJ wasn't designed with exclusive stealth in mind so the enemy 
 AI can be forgiven. Not as fun as Ray but not bad stealth either. The thing that trully pissed 
 me of about Billy were the platforming parts wich in first-person is dificult and the moving boxes 
 thing and enviromental puzzels can get quite tedious after a while.
  OK I picked-on the poor kid enough, he desirves credit for breaking the constant shooting and for 
 ading to the western perspective letting us see how an indian would fell like. And there's something 
 satysfing in not-beeing detected by enemyes that could otherwise kill you with 3 or 4 shots and 
 riding of on a stolen horse. Oh yeah both Ray and Billy have horses to ride, again I say authenycity.
 
  Raityng the gameplay acording to each character's style of play would leave Ray with a 9 and Billy 
 with 7. It's better to be a gunslinger than an indian.
  
  West to life
  
  The game is powerd by Techland's Chrome engine wich allaws for some really big enviroment and a 
 lot of interactive objects. The characters do have that Doom 3 overshine thing going on but the 
 game looks great provided you have a rig that can handle it, and even so you may run in to some 
 technical bugs.
  The voice-acting, music score, and guns are very apropriate and further more ad to the western 
 theme. You'll be done with the single-player in about 12 hours wich isn't very long but there is 
 a surprsingly fun multyplayer wich isn't hurt because of the historical nature of the game. But 
 don't expect too much thow.
  
  Waching the sun set......
  
  At first you may say the game would do better of without Billy, well you'd be wrong because without 
 Billy, Ray's croce would be too heavy to carry and the game would undoubtublly get repeticious 
 by the end while if there would only be Billy, the game would become too much of a chore. While 
 indead the Billy sequinces could have been much better executed CoJ absolutlly excels in the setting, 
 style and overall fell that imerssess you in it's world, in this case western, in such a way that 
 few games manage. Overall Call of Juarez is the best western game since Outlaws. And Outlaws is 
 the best. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: knux15
Rating: 7.7
Date: Jun 27, 2007 6:13 pm PT
Review:  I must say that this game is new in the FPS kingdom as a FPWPS (First Person Western Puzzler Shooter) 
 So lets break down this new genre, FPS is the basis of this genre meaning that it is mainly like 
 any other FPS ever made. Now, lets take the puzzler aspect (which is what Half Life 2 brought to 
 the table) put it in the western environment and give Gordon Freeman a bible and a voice, and you 
 have Call of Juarez.
  
  Graphics are so-so and the setting are interesting as hell.
  
  The game auto defaulted to LOW for my machine which meets recommended standards and it looked nice 
 I must say. I decided to up the graphics up to medium and everything went to craps. HDR was out 
 the window and texture was up! I decided to finally revert the settings since the lighting makes 
 the appeal much better than having a full 3d bush. Sounds is above average but definitely not the 
 best. Voice acting is so-so but the scoring is superb. VA can lag from the responses making them 
 seem to be a little bit slow in the head.
  
  Now about the gameplay and the story about the bible in the game. You play two main characters, 
 Billy a boy who is enthralled in finding gold and slutty women. And then there is Reverand Ray... 
 He's kinda screwed up in the head and thanks his way to serve a higher purpose is to kill everyone 
 he perseves to be EVIL!
  
  Ultimately the game adds new aspects like using a whip and having to swing across a canyon by putting 
 the whip on a tree limb and swinging over. It also has a few goodies like CONCENTRATION mode where 
 two cross hairs will appear in bullet time and you get to line up your targets to kill each of 
 them within a second. It is above the recent crap that has attacked the PC and helps along but 
 with more work this type of game could be your next Game of the Year in 2009... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: snfonseka
Rating: 7.8
Date: Jun 27, 2007 11:36 am PT
Review:  A game with nice game play, visuals, sounds and story. Story is a classic and game play can give 
 uncommon cool experience to the player. You'll play the game as Billy and Reverend Ray. As Billy 
 you have to use stealth
  and your whip where as Ray you have to use your Colts.
  
  You have to battle against crooked men of law, thieves and sometimes even members of Juarez gang. 
 Game play gives really good experience to the player with great gunfights where everything slows 
 down as you shoot down your enemies with your Colt. The sceneries are nice and you can feel the 
 Wild West with realistic trees and deserts. Talking about levels in the game, they are not boring 
 to play. Finally, this is a great game for FPS lovers. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: beersnob
Rating: 7.2
Date: Jun 27, 2007 4:49 am PT
Review:  Overall, it's a fun game. I don't mind it being on rails as sometimes it's nice to be guided along 
 the storyline. Environment raphics are great, sound is awesome (when both are working, see below) .
 
  Controls are adequate, although playing Billy and dodging everything can get boring. It's a western, 
 EVERYONE should be gunfighting!
  
  My biggest complaint is with performance. I have a new Maingear PC loaded to the gills, even an 
 8800GTX card. Playing in DX10 was good for the first few episodes and then it's like performance 
 hit a brick wall, to the point of being unplayable. I even lowered the resolution and settings 
 to better performance and it still ran horribly slow, and then looked bad too!
  I updated my video driver and am in the process of updating my sound card (X-Fi Extreme Gamer) 
 since the sounds were getting wonky too.
  Hopefully that will correct things and I can continue playing, and actually the enjoying, the game 
 itself.
  
  Then again, it could be because I have Vista. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: a_nacond_a
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jun 27, 2007 12:16 am PT
Review:  I am sorry to say , but i don't agree at all with Gamespots review. Good that everyone can have 
 their own opinion. This was one of the best first person games that i have ever played. (Best western 
 by far.) I was immersed from the beginning to the end. The sneaky parts were a bit different , 
 but it was a very good break for me between the action parts. (Loved playing with the preacher 
 BTW.) This game wil always stay in my mind as something different. A break away from those fps 
 like pray etc. that really didn't keep me bound to my PC for a day or two. I give this game a big 
 thumbs up so go and try it for yourself! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: smokum92
Rating: 8.1
Date: Jun 26, 2007 7:17 pm PT
Review:  yea it starts slow,,,,,,,, but once u get the bow and arrow,,,,,,,, just bow time em and dont forget 
 to get ur arrows back,,,,,,,,, i had a blast ,,,,,,,,,, to heck with hidding,,,,,,,, shoot em in the 
 head with the bow,,,,,,,,, most of the time no one even hears or sees,,,,,,,, then get the arrows 
 back,,,,,,,,,,,,, walk throughs say sneek here and hide here,,,,,,,,, aw bs,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,, just 
 shoot em in the head with the bullet time bow,,,,,,,, and have fun,,,,,,,,,,,,,, rays a hoot,,,,, 
 and yea it takes some time to master his aim but once u do its fun and cool,,,,,,,,,,,, so get through 
 the slow start and have fun////////// it is a bit linear,,, got to go just this way or that,,,,,,,,,,, but 
 overall it portrays history and is a twist on the origial shooter,,,,,,,, 
::::::

::::::
UserName: abu123
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jun 26, 2007 11:49 am PT
Review:  Ok I'll tell you the truth I don't own this game but I played it at my freinds house. And after 
 a while was able to what he told me beat most of the game. I was horrible but I wanted the acheviments 
 so I played it. Not worth telling you how much I hated it so just don't buy it. However I will 
 tell you it was an ok multiplayer player with my freind but after doing one match we started playing 
 gears so it wasn't anything interesting. The story mode was kind of fun knowing I was getting easy 
 acheviments and the blood was satisfiying killing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: yeapstab
Rating: 6.4
Date: Jun 25, 2007 3:20 pm PT
Review:  It's good to see a western FPS because there aren't too many of them. However this game lacks on 
 multiple aspects of the game. Some users that have 8800 graphics cards might experience shadows 
 that pop . This could be a driver issue. The shooting is a lot of fun, but the shotgun model is 
 a little off in size. I think the best western game I've have ever played was red dead revolver, 
 but call of Juarez doesn't even come close. The models, graphics, and sounds are great. The objectives 
 and story line aren't so great. Some times the dialog was written by a 5 year old. Bottom line, 
 wait for the bargain bin on this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hapoel
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jun 22, 2007 11:22 pm PT
Review:  There aren't many Western games for PC for some reason, it has been all about elves and aliens 
 lately. Oh well. Since I was sick of those I got this game expecting very little (based on the 
 Xbox review) and I was actually quite surprised. While not without its flaws, it's a fun little 
 game to play, certainly for fans of the genre but also for everyone else who is sick of elves.
 
  
  Gameplay- One reason I was hesitant to get the game was gamespot's review of Billy's sections. 
 I hate platforming, and hate stealth, since I got no patience for either. While there are irritating 
 stealth segments, especially early in the game, they're surprisingly short and painless. You're 
 not hugely penalized for every move, and it's not too hard to evade bandits. Also, often enough 
 you do have some weapons and while Billy dies real quick, he can still shoot. Overall the platforming 
 isn't too taxing, and in fact almost fun. The segment Gamespot mentions about the mountain climb- 
 it feels tedious but also somewhat realistic; it actually reminded me of real life hikes that are 
 both annoying and rewarding when you get to the top. Getting down was pure joy as well since it's 
 so much easier than climbing up. So I feel it was well planned. Riding horses is a lot of fun, 
 as the speed of the horses is quite exciting, and the landscape is nice- not oblivion nice, but 
 nice nevertheless (I have an old video card, maybe it's even nicer on a supercomputer) . The segments 
 with uncle Ray are even more fun- good shooting action that doesn't feel overly campy nor overly 
 serious. Just right. The weapons feel authentic and have the impact you'd expect, and overall the 
 missions tend to be varied and fun. Overall both characters can be fun to play- but it's true that 
 the sequences with the preacher are more engaging overall. I'm sure I'll be in a minority but I 
 liked the gameplay better than proven classics like resident evil 4.
  
  Graphics- Not bad, not extraordinary. As I mentioned I have a fairly old machine so I'm probably 
 missing out on some flair.
  
  Sound- In my opinion the music and dialog are just excellent, with a good balance of seriousness 
 and camp. Sound effects are solid. The story itself is pretty cool- not extraordinary, but quite 
 amusing, and does push you to continue playing (if the good gameplay is not enough) .
  
  Value- A little too short. I'm not crazy about multiplayer shooters, so I haven't tried it yet. 
 The game itself, while not obnoxiously short does leave you wanting more. It's really a shame that 
 a game with such good gameplay ends so quickly. It does take at least 10 hours to finish on the 
 medium difficulty, but it still feels too short. So maybe if you're on a budget it's worth to wait 
 a little bit until the price goes down.
  
  Tilt- Overall I think this is an excellent game. Had it been a little longer and less linear it 
 had the potential to be one of the best games of the year. Even as it is, if you need your Western 
 fix, this is a very good choice 
::::::

::::::
UserName: markiie
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 18, 2007 7:37 pm PT
Review:  Can you even remember the last time a descent Wild West game came out (no, not Deerhunter) ? Thats 
 right, me neither. Well, if you have been holding your breath, you can exhale now, thanks to Call 
 of Juarez. This game is a work by Techland, a small studio of developers in Poland, who clearly 
 put their hearts into it. The result is a moving, heartfelt story told through the eyes of two 
 charismatic characters, pitted by fate against each other. It is set in a small Texas border town, 
 which comes alive with some of the best graphics to ever grace a PC monitor. Lush forests, beautiful 
 rivers, and scorching desert all look good enough to snapshoot postcards from. The character models 
 are just as vibrant, and when they open their mouths, its to say something meaningful or witty. 
 The action is really neat as well. Tired of the same pistol, machine gun, rocket launcher, and 
 energy weapon loadout in every game? Try some authentic 18th century gunpowder weapons on for size. 
 Loved the gravity gun from HL2? How about coming at your foes with a King James Edition Bible? 
 Seriously, this is a very solid shooter in its own right. All-in-all, I find it hard to find a 
 flaw in this game, and I am usually hard to please (just read some of my other reviews) . However, 
 if there is one thing you could pick on, its that the game is completely linear. It is 100% scripted, 
 so dont look for open-ended gameplay here. But if you can only look past that and simply imagine 
 that you are acting out a Clint Eastwood classic, you will definitely scratch that trigger finger 
 itch, and perhaps even pluck at a few heartstrings. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nickstock
Rating: 7.8
Date: Jun 15, 2007 1:17 pm PT
Review:  Call of Juarez is a game that goes back to the cowboys era, in a very original script from the 
 creators. I thing is a subject that has never been xploited before. The westerns.
  
  Personally, i find it a good game. But also i think the story could be more long, more elaborated.
 
  
  Graphics are good in general, specialy with a good GPU. Although, some bugs were founded, it was 
 playable.
  
  Something I found really frustrating was the  loooooaaadingggg...... 
 time that all ubisoft's games delay. (ie Company of Heroes or Splinter Cell: Double Agent) This 
 game is not the exception.
  
  If you want to change the ultra-plasma weapons, or futuristic weapons and enviroments for a while. 
 Definetively recommend this one.
  
  'Hi-yo Silver!' 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FatPipe
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jun 17, 2007 8:35 pm PT
Review:  I dont normally discuss a game or do any type of review until I am finished. In this case I dont 
 need to because I can tell half way through that this game is worth it. Gameplay - Where to start... I 
 have nothing but good things to say, and the minor negatives are hardly worth noting because the 
 positives make up for it. Yes its your standard fps, and the controls and shooting is the norm, 
 but thats where it stops. Each level is new, unique, and unexpected at times. Lets just say I 
 cant normally stand stealth games or levels, but this game actually makes them fun. And its difficulty 
 (at medium) is just tough enough to keep you on your toes, but not enough to frustrate. It is somewhat 
 linear but there are still times where you can make decisions and you do have to discover hidden 
 paths, etc. but I never found myself wandering around for half an hour trying to figure out the 
 next step. My usual thought was ok, that was pretty cool. 
  
  Characters - Wow... I did a review for Alpha Prime and talked about how horrible the acting was... Someone 
 get those developers on the horn with the makers of this game! The preacher is downright bizarre 
 to say the least. It is freaky enough to creep you out without having to blow someones head off, 
 or cut someone in two. It is so well written that I actually got into the cut scenes, and payed 
 close attention to the storyline. Some games try to add characters talking off screen with amusing 
 discussions, or have them making little jokes, but rarely does it work for me. This game is downright 
 funny at times and I found myself actually taking the time to hear what they had to offer before 
 I went in blasting.
  
  Graphics - Well above average enough to satisfy. Great outdoor scenes, and great attention to little 
 details. Other than some glitches now and then when moving objects, this game was a smooth as silk 
 and was pretty much seamless. This may have to do with the enormous load times... I have a beefy 
 machine and it still took an incredible amount of time to load some chapters, but so what, it was 
 worth the wait. I am running everything maxed out at 1600X1200 and never experienced any issues.
 
  
  Overall - I could pick on the 2 or 3 things about the game that I didnt like but why... none of 
 them had any significant negative impact. The one thing I did find odd was that you cant hurt innocent 
 people, do damage to corpses, or animals. If you do, you get a warning one time and then the game 
 ends. Huh? Its a story about a demented preacher who goes around killing people so that he can 
 catch and Mexican boy who was thought to have murdered his family but cant get anyone to listen 
 because his girlfriends dad is prejudice against him because, as he puts it the color of my skin. 
 You can whip a coyote to death and watch its blood splatter everywhere, but you cant kick it after 
 its dead? Did nothing to ruin the gameplay, just very very bizarre.
  
  This game is well worth the price and I highly recommend it for anyone bored with the same old 
 fps.
  
  UPDATE: Just finished... upping the score a bit, this game was incredible. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: johnnych_cr
Rating: 7.9
Date: Jun 14, 2007 10:11 am PT
Review:  Call of Juarez is a really good game, not good enough to be on a top 50 of the best games ever, 
 but is good. The game starts with Billy Candle, a Mexican-American that returns to his town, Hope, 
 a town forgotten by God, to visit his mother. After some problems and a really big misunderstanding, 
 Billy is force to get the blue heaven out of Hope as fast as he can, follow by Reverend Ray, a 
 bad ass preacher that decides to get his rusty old weapons and follow Billy to kill him.
  
  The game turns out to be a mouse and cat type of persecution, with Billy on the run, using his 
 ability to escape form trouble and Reverent Ray just shutting his way to catch Billy. The game 
 delivers in a great way, the history forces the player to keep playing until the very end. The 
 game looks great and it has some really good sound too. But the best thing of the game is the open 
 fields, there is a stage when Billy is force to climb a mountain and when he reaches the top, you 
 are able to see this beautiful open field, that remained me of Far Cry.
  
  On the downside, sometimes the game is really long between episodes, for example, the is on episode 
 when Billy has to hunt 3 rabbits in order to learn how to use the Bow and the worst part is that 
 you must travel a long distance to get the damn rabbits. The shotting is really good, especially 
 with the low motion, but this is only available for Reverent Ray, not for Billy, which is a pain, 
 especially when Billy must use a weapon.
  
  On a button line, this is a game that you can play if you don't have any other good game to play, 
 but it will not disappointed you, you will continue to play until the end of the game, Believe 
 me.. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ZlatkoZ
Rating: 8.1
Date: Jun 13, 2007 7:35 pm PT
Review:  I first had the opportunity to play the demo for Call of Juarez back in June or July of 2006, I 
 dont quite remember when it was, I just remember that it was nice and warm outside. I finished 
 Call of Juarez at the beginning of June, but Gamespot. com wouldnt allow me to post the review 
 until the official U. S release and their own review.
  
  The demo, I must say put me off (at least Billys portion of the demo) as I found the whole sneaking 
 around thing a little bit unsuited for the game, especially because 98% of the game takes place 
 during the daytime. It seems that a person cannot see me 20 feet from them in broad daylight due 
 to me standing behind a tree.
  
  The game is based around two characters Billy Candle and Reverend Ray. Each of the two characters 
 have had a history with both the law and past criminal activity. From what the game indicates, 
 Billy is roughly 16-17 years old and of Mexican descent living in the southern United States. Reverend 
 Ray is a dark, withered and battle-scarred preacher who is becoming disillusioned with his flock. 
 His past is clouded in darkness and violence.
  
  As Billy Candle, your main task will be trying to run away from Reverend Ray who thinks that you 
 have murdered his brother (your step-father) and his wife (your mother) . Billy is usually a sneak-and-run 
 type of character who really offers no real satisfaction from a first person shooter perspective. 
 His missions and campaigns really are more along the lines of collecting items or finding out what 
 has happened to him and who has murdered his mother and step-father.
  
  With Reverend Ray, your primary task is to pursue Billy for most of the game, with the exception 
 of the massive gun-fights that the Preacher gets into along the way. The gun-fights are very dirty 
 and satisfying; the models are very responsive to specific hits such as center-mass and headshots. 
 This does not mean that you can blow off limbs or anything like that, but if you want to drop a 
 character quickly, aim for their head and surely they will fall. The only problem with some of 
 this is that the AI even on the easiest setting is deadly accurate. It does not matter if you are 
 hundreds of meters away, it seems that any cowboy with a Smith &amp; Wesson can tag you in the 
 chest almost from any distance. When dealing with ranged targets, there is actual lead-time needed, 
 as the bullets arent instantaneous.
  
  The general plot of the game is that the two characters as a cat and mouse team end up along the 
 way helping numerous characters and assisting the good guys along the way. As the story develops 
 it turns out that Billy Candle is not responsible for Reverend Rays brother or sister in laws 
 deaths, but in fact Billys estranged father is. He is after a medallion that Billy possesses and 
 will kill anyone in his way.
  
  As the good Reverend eventually catches up to Billy, he understands that it was not him that caused 
 the deaths, and the pair eventually start working together. In the previous chapters, the two would 
 sometimes play similar (but never identical) levels. This is an interesting twist for a video game, 
 I personally have seen something similar in games like Broken Sword and Indiana Jones, but never 
 in a first person shooter. The switching between characters adds a little bit of freshness, and 
 does not fatigue the player especially after longer missions where one rides horse-back for upwards 
 of 20 minutes shooting up a storm.
  
  The levels are very nicely done, there is a sense of great detail and awe in both quality and size. 
 The terrain reminds me of such games as Operation Flashpoint, but only more interesting and detailed.
 
  
  The game itself is very linear, and there are seldom chances of actually going the wrong way, or 
 perhaps going off route, in this respect it is very similar to Max Payne. The game however does 
 not hide this linearity very casually, either you will jump down a ledge that you cannot get back 
 on, or a doorway or cave will collapse behind you preventing you from returning. This is not necessarily 
 a bad thing, but I feel its overused.
  
  The difficulty of the game is quite something, even on the easiest setting; it is not hard to die 
 upwards of 20-25 times, this is not to say that there is not enough ammunition or health power-ups, 
 but it has quite a bit to do with the previously discussed 100% accuracy of enemies.
  
  Sound in the game is very good, but it is far from perfect. The reason I say this is because when 
 you are in one part of the town, and you can hear a horse shoe being battered on top of an anvil, 
 the sound is the same when you are beside the blacksmiths barn or on the outer edge of the town. 
 The music is very good, and compliments the games fine graphics and feel.
  
  The game play is generally solid, with the exception of some of the sloppy movements when around 
 objects that are in front of you like ledges or crates. The physics behind moving these crates 
 is definitely in need off improvement as well as the climbing-running-swinging portions of the 
 game. It is interesting how they did this, but it is far from perfected.
  
  Overall, this is a very original western-style shooter (the last one of its kind was Outlaws by 
 Lucasarts back in 1997) with a very unique game play and plot advancement. The game has a few problems 
 here and there, but nothing substantial enough to cause the player to think its a bad game. The 
 game is somewhat demanding on lower-end computers, and does not really allow the player to experience 
 the game fully as someone with a higher-end machine. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ebtr
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 13, 2007 9:04 am PT
Review:  Call of Juarez is a game I have followed since the demo came out. This is the first of many ( I 
 Hope ) Spaghetti Western themed FPS's .
  Can you imagine the possibilities using good old western Movies as a basic design theme?? The possibilities 
 could give us more choices than WW2 games have given us. The western has long been overlooked and 
 other weak attempts like GUN did not make the mark. Call of Juarez makes the mark ! UBI soft has 
 made some really good shooters recently (R6Vegas) and they can add this to their list of good games! 
 BRAVO !
  I like the way they took into consideration both OLD AND NEWER computers
  and have provided ample built in support to run the game properly.
  The game has length ,multi 
 player, and great single player action.
  Yes there are things I do not like about the game but they are minor and petty. Overall this game 
 is a buy if you enjoy the multi player and a rent if you only want single player 
::::::

::::::
UserName: humbikmeamyou
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 12, 2007 6:14 pm PT
Review:  Pros.
  1. Amazing graphics, the hued effects are awesome, your zoom is just like in real life, if youre 
 looking at something in front of you when zoomed, then other things are blurred, and vise versa. 
 The environment and scenery are exceptionally well designed. Not to mention very good rendering 
 for models.
  2. The games physics are pretty good, you can interact with pretty much everything you see, such 
 as boxes drovers, etc. realistic gravity.
  3. One of the only games that you can set the environment on fire, or put out fire by water, all 
 if which can be used for strategy purposes. 4. Great weapons, and good handling. The weapons handle 
 very well and they even wear out after allot of use. 5. Smart AI, AI takes cover and utilizes flanking, 
 there are also DUALS !!! Real western style duals that everything slows down and you have to act 
 fast to kill the guy before he kills you, VERY VERY INTENSE !!
  6. The game always keeps you interested with the revolutionary story telling from the perspectives 
 of two characters that you play, once you pick it up, you dont stop, or at least thats how it 
 was for me. I started at 2 pm and finished it at 12 am. Cons.
  1. The game seemed short. As I said I beat it in 10 hours, but I am mostly a strategy gamer and 
 used to long hour of gaming, so if 10 hours is ok for fps then no problem here.
  2. Some of the weapons seemed very redundant, and some other interesting weapons that you gain 
 in the near end of the game you dont have much time to play with and enjoy before the game ends.
 
  3. Some levels feels very low in action as you try to sneak passed guards, these sneak missions 
 can be hard if you inpatient, but if you just crouch walk then there no hard, just strenuous.
 
  4. Multiplayer is very cheese in this game. I didnt like the multi player one bit. Compared to 
 counter strike source or some of the other fps shooters out there, this games multiplayer is just 
 a slug fest. Its almost impossible to use the rifle. All in all its a GREAT single player experience 
 with a smooth game play, even though it feels very short, but make sure you play the multiplayer 
 demo if youre buying it for the multiplayer experience. I recommend this everyone, fun, fast, 
 and a hint of innovation. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: VivaNOLA
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jun 12, 2007 10:41 am PT
Review:  Take this game for what it is - a classic western flick in which you star in two different roles. 
 As such there is of course a script - one to which you must rigorously adhere, so this is not a 
 world you get to explore like that of Half-Life 2, Oblivion, etc. If that's what you're looking 
 for, then you will be disappointed. However, if you give yourself over to the rigid structure and 
 story line there is a lot to enjoy here. The story is quite good and touches on many familiar aspects 
 of classic western plots without wallowing in the genre's many cliches.
  
  The two characters you play force you to adapt to very different gameplay styles. The younger of 
 the two is stealth-based - lots of sneaking, climbing, and swinging from your whip. The older character 
 is pretty much guns-blazin', spurs janglin', destruction and wrath - lots of shooting, very little 
 sneaking, and even some bible-beating. One plays as one character and then the other - often chasing 
 through the same areas. This gets a bit repetitive: young dude - often armed only with a whip - 
 sneaks past a load of bad guys, then old dude chases him through same area and shoots the bad guys. 
 Two things make this game work for me: The story line and the gunslinger's Concentration Mode. 
 Concentration Mode is similar in concept to Bullet Time , but with two reticles (left and right 
 guns) slowly converging on a central point through a slowed-down world. Get good at this and you 
 can nail five or six guys while they're still fumbling for their holsters. The slow-mo animation 
 of their rag-doll bodies crumpling from the impact of your bullets is intensely gratifying. I want 
 Concentration Mode and two trusty revolvers in every game I play now. The Combine can eat my lead.
 
  
  So if you want to explore, hate stealth games, and want a game you can play for weeks on end, then 
 this is not the game for you. If you love westerns, Indiana Jones, and precision weapons, then 
 you will probably really enjoy this game - while it lasts. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: indzman
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jun 12, 2007 12:54 am PT
Review:  Call Of Juarez is a superb FPS game for P. C by UBISOFT and Techland . The game has got multiplayer 
 too . The game has excellent graphics / Visuals , AI , Soundquality and voiceactings . Above all 
 the games got rocking novelic storyline . Characters all memorable . Cutscenes very well done . 
 You get in the game two playable characters namely Billy and Reverend Ray .And you can play them 
 both in their own respective missions till their paths meet in end . The story is all about misunderstandings 
 , vengenance , love and treasure hunting . Old western period settings is potraited excellently 
 in the game with rich detailed environments , foliage , water effects and shadows . The storyline 
 / gameplay is very lenghty too .
  
  You get lots of excellent old western weapons and duel styles with archery. Plus you get to ride 
 horses too which is a added attraction . The games full of stealth , top notch action .COJ has 
 its own share of puzzles to solve too . The game got awesome thrills in every step . Tho the game 
 is demanding regarding its system requirements but its worth it. Its a must buy for action lovers 
 .I recommend this game highly . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xxxgangsta
Rating: 10
Date: May 3, 2007 11:08 am PT
Review:  Got This game , installed this game , played this game I was amazed this game is so cool I could 
 play and play , but I don't have time for it ... Best thing in this game was the storyline , it 
 was so thrilling , it was like watchin great movie... even better , graphics are great , good sound 
 interesting , horse riding and very very interesting ending , well I don't realy know what to write 
 but this game is awsome...!
  Gameplay:
  Hard to kill , but easy to hit , holes left after bullet looks nice , but simetimes ,when you hit 
 in to neck , enemy stays alive but still ,this is the best game I ever played! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Klonricket
Rating: 5.4
Date: Apr 25, 2007 2:58 pm PT
Review:  I looks gorgeous and has some nice ideas but it really is a shame that so much of the game is complete 
 this is 70 seconds , chase someone and sneak here without being seen .
  
  I was hoping for a slightly less linear game with more freedom to explore. Half Life 2 was fairly 
 linear but you were given the opportunity to poke around the levels and enjoy them. This game forces 
 you to run past things I want to stop and appreciate.
  
  Secondly the load times are unbelievable. I await a patch to rectify this.
  
  However, the 
 combat system is fun, punching is satisfying and the concentration mode is effective. Also from 
 time to time the character can grab onto ledges and pull himself up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Planeforger
Rating: 9.6
Date: Mar 22, 2007 10:57 pm PT
Review:  Premise: Accused of murdering his mother and her husband, Billy Candle is fleeing for his life 
 across the 1880's Wild West. Reverend Ray, an aged priest and brother of the deceased, believes 
 that he must enact 'God's will' and righteously get his vengeance. So begins an epic chase from 
 Texas to Mexico, in which the player plays as both the hunter and the hunted as they ride, sneak 
 and shoot their way across fifteen reasonably-lengthed chapters. With plenty of plot twists and 
 more Western cliches than you can shake a stick of dynamite at, the story is one of the strongest 
 points of the game - which is unusual for an FPS.
  
  Gameplay: As the two characters are vastly different in character, so too are their chapters different 
 gameplay-wise. Ray's chapters are fairly straightforward run'n'gun levels - he'll be doing most 
 of the fighting in the game, and has a generally larger assortment of weapons to use. Due to his 
 age and body armour, he is unable to jump very far and cannot climb objects, meaning that his chapters 
 play exactly like most other first-person shooters. Ray has four different firing styles to choose 
 from - a normal shooting style, a  style, an 'akimbo' style (two 
 pistols, each fired by a different mouse button) and 'concentration mode', which is like akimbo, 
 but in bullet-time. Billy's levels are more akin to FarCry or Thief than to the traditional FPS. 
 Billy usually won't have (m) any weapons, and has no armour, so he has to rely on stealth to survive. 
 As such, his levels are usually slower paced, which contrasts well with the mass-killing of Ray's 
 chapters, but some gamers will find these sections to be dull and frustrating. Having said that, 
 Billy only has to rely on stealth for about half of the game, so it shouldn't totally ruin the 
 game for anyone who hates these sections. Weapons in Call of Juarez can be categorised into: Pistols, 
 Rifles, Shotguns and Other. That may not seem like much variety, but given the wide variation in 
 accuracy, clip size, damage, quality and reloading speeds of the guns (all of which can break, 
 too) , you'll find yourself constantly swapping out your weapons for those more appropriate to your 
 ever-changing situation, and the weapons will almost never feel stale. The AI isn't terrible - 
 enemies will generally seek cover, attempt to flush you out with dynamite, and so on... although 
 they feel very stupid during the stealth missions, where you can instantly become 'invisible' by 
 hiding in bushes. All in all, the gameplay is quite varied, and the pacing of the game is well 
 judged. If you enjoyed Half-Life 2's scripted perfection, or FarCry's massive maps, then you should 
 enjoy this game.
  
  Graphics: Call of Juarez is one of the best looking games currently out on the PC. Take Oblivion's 
 environments, FEAR's particle effects, Half-Life 2's lighting, add in some great character models, 
 amazing depth-of-field effects... and you get a rough idea as to what Call of Juarez looks like. There 
 are a few minor bad textures here and there, but the good definitely outweighs the bad here. Even 
 more impressive are the wealth of minor details in the game's visuals - the way hats fly off peoples' 
 heads when you punch/shoot them; the way glass breaks and falls; the way dust hangs in the air 
 long enough to blind you, but not long enough to annoy you; and the smoky, hazy effects generated 
 by the game's spectacular fires.
  
  Sound: A good story can be ruined by a terrible voice actor, just as a bad story can be saved by 
 a good one. This game gets the best of both worlds - it tells a relatively good story (when compared 
 to the rest of the genre) , and has some truly impressive voice acting. Given the emotional content 
 of the lines, the VA's did a commendable job bringing these characters to life, especially in the 
 case of Reverend Ray's zealous rantings. The game's excellent voice acting is matched by an exceptional 
 soundtrack, and the rest of the sound effects are just what you'd expect from a collection of 1880's 
 weapons.
  
  Value: The game's fifteen chapters play out across a solid 12-16 hour campaign - which feels neither 
 too long nor too short. There are some unlockables, in the form of hidden 'wanted posters' depicting 
 the developers of the game, but they don't actually *do* anything and can be ignored. The multiplayer 
 for the game is your standard class-based FPS fare - Deathmatch, Team Deathmatch, Capture the Flag 
 and 'Robbery' (mission-based... but basically capture-the-flag) being the main modes. The game also 
 allows you to start from any previously played chapters, so you can easily jump to your favourite 
 sequences - some of which you'll definitely want to play again.
  
  Conclusion: Call of Juarez was the surprise hit of 2006 (released in Australia and Europe in '06, 
 everywhere else in '07) , and quite honestly the best first person shooter to be released in years. 
 The scripting and scenarios in this game are just as good as those found in Valve's games, and 
 the strong emphasis on character development and story really helps to push this game beyond the 
 standard FPS fare. Fans of first person shooters, or just strong stories in games: don't miss out 
 on Call of Juarez! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DezmoTk
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jan 15, 2007 10:51 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay - Gameplay is linear thats about the only bad thing I have to sad about it, otherwise 
 the gameplay is broken up well between the two main characters Billy Candle and Reverand Ray. The 
 guns are excellent and theres a wide range of them, you are really immersed during gameplay and 
 have such an atmospheric feel while playing. You really get the feel of a hopeless town with a 
 really worn out people in the old west.
  
  Graphics - Graphics are so beautiful and somewhat unique the landscapes are so gorgeous and vast. 
 You can see for miles! The lush environment and great people. The people in this are so well done 
 with great high quality textures and well done models. Theres also the depth of field effect when 
 you focus which zooms in on a targeted area and distant from it becomes blurred. The FPS view of 
 guns is also great not to mention you also have a full body you can see! Only fault I can find 
 is some of the effects are overdone like the heat waves in the distance are a bit obvious.
  
  Sound - Ahh woo the sound in this game is possibly one of the best parts! The voice acting 
 is AWESOME, they have a very western styled accent that doesn't sound faked or corny and its quite 
 clear with well spoken voice. The sound effects are also good but its the voices that take the 
 show.
  
  Value - Good game for your money. What else is there to say?
  
  The ending could of been better and they could of used the bow and arrow more but thats about it. 
 You should really give this game a go if your computer can play it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GenTom
Rating: 8.3
Date: Dec 24, 2006 10:15 am PT
Review:  I'm really beginning to like some of the things that Ubisoft is doing. Though they are obviously 
 trying to stay in the game with EA by adopting their policy of franchise milking, they are also 
 balancing this out by supporting rather innovative games from European newcomers. Far Cry and Beyond 
 Good &amp; Evil are great examples of this.
  
  To be fair to EA, they are also known for spotting, financing, and ultimately capitalizing on innovative 
 game concepts - The Sims and the Battlefield series being good examples. That's what keeps them 
 at the top of the game.
  
  Going back to Ubisoft though, they reaffirm their business philosophy by signing Call of Juarez, 
 a first-person shooter set in the Wild West. Its creators, Polish-based Techland, made a name for 
 themselves by developing Chrome, a sci-fi first-person shooter in the vein of Unreal 2. The game 
 did have its strong points, but overall, it felt just a bit too rough around the edges to make 
 any sort of lasting impression.
  
  With Call of Juarez, however, it's clear that Techland has made huge strides in the right direction, 
 (although it is not clear if that is due to learning from past mistakes, or simply getting the 
 proper financial support from Ubisoft) . Call of Juarez was developed on Techland's proprietary 
 engine that makes heavy use of NVIDIA Pixel Shader 3.0 support. I've played the game on a relatively 
 powerful system (AMD 4200+, 2GB RAM, 7800GTX) and things worked smoothly on max details and in 
 high res (1600x1200) . The engine does a very good job of rendering both indoor and outdoor environments, 
 with the emphasis on the outdoor stuff. The level loading times can be a problem, but only when 
 you first fire up the game.
  
  Much like the Far Cry engine, Call of Juarez code renders the background in full 3D and it does 
 so visually quite similar to The Elder Scrolls IV: Oblivion. For some reason, the forest settings 
 in Call of Juarez reminded me a lot of Oblivion, though the Oblivion code looks much tighter indoors. 
 The character animation and the level of detail on their faces are exceptional, with good lip-synching. 
 What also appealed to me in terms of graphics was the relative good use of special effects to create 
 various sorts of moods in the backdrop. This was very effective.
  
  I guess I kicked off this talk about Call of Juarez with engine details because I'm really impressed 
 with how much Techland has progressed since the relatively shoddy Chrome code. Call of Juarez looks 
 and feels like a solid game (even though it does take a stronger rig to run it right) . In comparison, 
 I played the game on a low-end system too (with a Radeon 9800XT card) , and the graphics looked 
 noticeably poorer (and that might be an understatement) .
  
  But the strong side to Call of Juarez is, surprisingly, the developer's willingness to experiment, 
 as well as the personality of one of the two main protagonists.
  
  Call of Juarez is played from the perspective of two different characters: one is a Mexican drifter 
 named Billy, who was wrongfully accused of committing a heinous crime supposedly over the lost 
 gold of Juarez - a mythical Aztec treasure. The other character is named Ray, a self-righteous 
 preacher with a shady past who after years of leading the stray lamb of a small town decides to 
 put down his bible in favor of his trusty six-shooters. Ray is a barking mad self-professed hand 
 of God, a religious zealot convinced in Billy's guilt. The game tells the tale of these two characters, 
 the ties that bind them to each other and to the lost gold.
  
  Gameplay-wise, Techland made a relatively clear distinction by making Billy into a stealthy, nimble 
 character that is mostly required to sneak through bandit-infested camps and climb ledges, while 
 the preacher is a mangy old coyote that will surely just blast his way through an area, rather 
 than climb a single crate. From a gameplay standpoint, it would be fair to say that the Ray missions 
 are action-oriented, while Billy's Episodes mostly involve stealth and platform puzzles in first 
 person. Much like Indiana Jones, Billy uses a whip to swing off branches and climb up to hard-to-reach 
 places.
  
  That said, I must reiterate that Ray is the charismatic one, while Billy will likely strike you 
 as a bit flat. Ray cites more Bible verses than Samuel Jackson does in Pulp Fiction, and he kills 
 more people. He is old, fast on the trigger, and totally psychotic. You just *have* to like him 
 (if you don't he'll shoot you) . He's a very likeable antihero. The actor who voiced Ray is also 
 very good. A bit over-the-top at times, but the overly expressive acting serves the character perfectly. 
 Controlling Ray, players will get to experience frantic gun battles that are just plain fun. Ray 
 can go into Concentration Mode - a sort of bullet time quick draw mode that you'll use to deal 
 with the toughest encounters. At the end of each Ray episode, the old preacher will face off a 
 boss character in a good old-fashioned gunfight. The gunfight system takes some time getting used 
 to and is no more than a gimmick, but it still complements the action well.
  
  Billy's missions, on the other hand, can get dreary at times. Techland needs more practice in designing 
 good stealth missions. The AI reacts unrealistically to situations when your character is spotted 
 by not even bothering to chase after you for a couple of steps (just as long as you manage to get 
 out of their line of sight) . Furthermore, the overall level design doesn't really work in the game's 
 favor. While this is far less noticeable in the action missions (where you are busy shooting and 
 enjoying the rollercoaster ride-like action) , the stealth missions will have you running into invisible 
 walls and sort of noticing the repetitiveness and the constrictiveness of some of the maps.
  
  Looking at the big picture, however, the story and the atmosphere in CoJ will be good enough 
 to keep you going, so I wouldn't go as far as to say that the Billy missions ruined it for me. 
 There were some that I found exciting (things pick up in the later stages) .
  
  Call of Juarez is also accompanied with a top-of-the-line musical score. By and large, the voice 
 acting is decent enough to make the Wild West theme moderately authentic - by Hollywood standards 
 anyway.
  
  Call of Juarez, besides introducing a striking game character in preacher Ray, also tries to use 
 the physics in a rather innovative manner. High ledges become deadly traps and your heroes are 
 hardly able to just jump off of them merrily. You'll have to watch your step. You'll have to watch 
 for the camp fire. The weather conditions like the wind and rain also play a role, giving the whole 
 game a grittier feel. This also extends to the weapons, which are definitely fun to use.
  
  While not quite realizing its full potential, I found Call of Juarez to be an enjoyable and refreshing 
 shooter experience. The way that the story is set up was fun and new. Those of you looking for 
 a good Western shooter should definitely purchase it.
  
  A very good game, but not quite living up to it's potential. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rockatanski
Rating: 8.3
Date: Oct 25, 2006 5:27 pm PT
Review:  I've only played the first couple of chapters and so far I have a few comments to make on it. First 
 off, I must say that it almost took me about an hour and a bit just tweaking the graphics till 
 my framerates were up and nice. Very annoying but unavoidable. Once I solved this typical PC aspect, 
 I got right into it. It was a bit slow to start out, but after a couple of hours of play it definately 
 started to get interesting. There are constantly new and innovative fantastic elements about COJ 
 that I haven't seen in a game yet. I won't go into the details too much but I'll just say that 
 the action packed FPS experience is totally awesome. I wouldn't go as far as to saying that this 
 is one of the best FPS gaming experiences just yet but it is definately a candidate for the most 
 fun I've had with a game in a while. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lb003g0676
Rating: 9.6
Date: Oct 8, 2006 7:09 am PT
Review:  This game was so incredibly hard to rate. I didn't want to give a perfect score and the only thing 
 I could fault was the game for the uncommon glitch. And they would never interfere with gameplay, 
 only cause the slightest bit of discomfort to the eye. And as for gameplay, sometimes there would 
 be things that would slow it down, but other than that I cannot say anymore negative about this 
 game, it's a MUST BUY. And really those Marks off the Graphics and Gameplay shouldn't be there, 
 it's just you can't take a perfect score seriosuly.
  
  The Gaming industry has been attempting to make a successful Western game for years, ever since 
 Outlaws infact. Gun failed dismally last year, but finally, for all the western fans, there is 
 something to feast your eyes on. It's Call of Juarez. The game is Revolutionary, it combines stealth, 
 adventure, melee combat, firearm combat and even free roam gameplay in some levels. Really what 
 a western should be. The varied gameplay is so intense and immerse, it's just fantastic. One second 
 you are Shooting off a group of Indians with Ray welding a huge rifle. The next moment your are 
 with Billy roaming the huge country with a bow and arrow hunting rabbits. And the missions are 
 broken up occasionally with high speed horse chase shootout, or saving a damsel in distress, from 
 falling to her certain death, possibly even a calssic wetsern duel. And Billys whip weilding swinging 
 and acrobatic ability, to collect feather from an Eagles nest atop a cliff, is so innovative. To 
 mix a game to this amount, is just unbleieveable, really from CoJ we were just expecting a shooter 
 but it's turned out to be so much more. The story is fanastic, it's like a movie in game form. 
 And don't start me on the voice acting, it's just fanastic. Think you recognise reverend Rays vpoice? 
 it's Everett from Total Recall! Marc Alaimo lending his voice for the game has worked so well, 
 and teh voiuce acting and script is great. Get this game, just go to the shop or go online and 
 grab it. It's just unbelievable. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DeamonAMD
Rating: 8.7
Date: Oct 2, 2006 4:52 am PT
Review:  In the beginning of the game I could believe the nice GFX and the nice Landscapes. It's really 
 good. I Liked the Linear game play. When you play with the one character do some stuff finish an 
 episode then with the other character at the exact same place u did with the first character. The 
 Story line is superb. The story weaves into each other to make for a really nice story. The Music 
 in the game is really put to gether nicely some places the music are so hectic that it amplifies 
 the atmosphere in the game so much.
  
  I really liked the game.
  
  I really loved the game. Their was n BAD PATCH in the middle of the game but when I got thru that 
 piece it was GOOD GAMING all the WAY.
  
  I RECOMEND THIS GAME 2 ANY FPS FAN :-) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: d11der
Rating: 9.1
Date: Sep 26, 2006 1:04 pm PT
Review:  Call of Juarez is an exciting and different challenge, and can be described as a well presented 
 and enjoyable hybrid between the usual first person shooters &amp; role playing games.
  
  Despite is steep learning curve (i. e. - the first hour of sneaking around to learn the skills required 
 to complete the game does get a bit tiresome) , this is a game well worth the extra effort .
  
  The game involves playing as 2 different characters through a combined storyline, think Max 
 Payne 2 character swapping, but this time your aiming to bring your other character to justice, 
 one minute your running away through realistic and exciting wild west environments - whilst being 
 used by the local towns folk as target practice after trying to get some romance at the local 
 saloon, only to find that in the next chapter of the game its you playing the character doing the 
 chasing and the shooting, this is the unique and very involving element of this challenge that 
 makes it so compelling to play.
  
  Story lines are predictable but enjoyable and I did find myself becoming very involved and relishing 
 each chapter more and more as the plot unfolded. Later chapters were much better than the start 
 of the game. You only get a small choice of weapons for your enjoyment, but you do get several 
 ways to use them, such as placing different guns in each hand, concentration mode (bullet timeish) 
 or a good old fashioned draw of your pistol when youre challenged to a duel!!
  
  Overall, Call of Juarez was a touch frustrating right at the start, (successful sneaking in this 
 title is so frustrating!!) but I am pleased I stuck it out as the rest of the game was superb to 
 play with great graphics, superb gameplay and left me awaiting a sequel 
::::::

::::::
UserName: the_mighty_boos
Rating: 7.4
Date: Mar 4, 2007 11:39 am PT
Review:  Playing as Reverend Ray, the gun toting, revenge seeking maniac, this game is truly spectacular. 
 The gun fights you have with bandits and varmints, using dual old school six shooters and classic 
 rifles, are great fun due to a fantastic feeling of connection whenever you shoot a bad guy in 
 the face. Most people would probably agree that the game would have been perfectly fine just playing 
 as the rev.
  
  Unfortunately, the games makers decided to add a second element to the game, which consists of 
 playing as Billy, a half mexican runaway, who no one seems to like. In these parts of the game, 
 you are required to be stealthy as being caught will mean game over. On paper this probably seemed 
 like a good shot at variety, but it just ends up being tedious and boring as you crawl around in 
 the bushes, praying that the stupid AI doesnt spot you. Some sections with Billy were good, like 
 climbing up eagle mountain to retrieve an eagles feather for the old native american guy who saves 
 your ass at one point, but the fun in these sections are certainly rare. The graphics in this game 
 are very nice, the water effects being pretty spectacular. You will need a beasting machine to 
 run it however, my pretty nice rig struggled big time on maximum settings. Overall, i recommend 
 getting this game, maybe finding a cheat to skip through the annoying Billy sections, and have 
 a real blast playing one of the most authentic and athmospherical western themed shooter ever.
 
  
  The Good - Very nice graphics - Very atmospherical, involving theme - Playing as Ray is always 
 great
  
  The Bad - Performance issues - Billy's sections are either annoying or boring. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
