-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Call to Power II
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/strategy/calltopower2/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Nov 20, 2000
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7.2
Critic Score: 7.3, 34 Review (s)
User Score: 7.9, 288 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Activision
Genre: Historic Turn-Based...
Date:     Nov 15, 2000 &raquo;  
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Call to Power II is definitely a superior game to Civilization: Call to Power, which should be enough 
 to recommend it to those players who did enjoy the previous game. 

 The original Civilization: Call to Power was supposed to be a sort of sequel to Sid Meier's Civilization 
 II - even though its game system was clearly based on Sid Meier's legendary design, it tried to 
 extend and improve the basic concepts. Unfortunately, it wasn't particularly successful. Eighteen 
 months later, Activision has taken another crack at reinterpreting the classic empire-building 
 game. The result is stripped of the Civilization name (for licensing reasons, since Hasbro actually 
 owns the name) and simply titled Call to Power II, and it's an improved - if still flawed - computer 
 game.   

  In many ways, Call to Power II is what Activision probably meant the first Call to Power to be. 
 Many people abandoned the first one due to its clumsy interface, which seemed to defy all logic 
 and convention. Apparently, Activision took those users' complaints to heart, because the interface 
 in Call to Power II is tremendously improved. The dialog boxes are better organized, buttons can 
 be moved easily between the various summary screens, and everything is much more intuitively laid 
 out. Therefore, unlike in the first game, those players with even a passing acquaintance with the 
 Civilization concept will be able to jump into Call to Power II without much trouble. That's a 
 significant improvement over the original Call to Power.   

  The graphics have also been given an overhaul, and while they are almost identical in style to 
 those in Call to Power, they've been cleaned up - so now, they look very attractive. In addition, 
 the animations and many of the sounds are extremely well done. Visually, Call to Power II is excellent. 
   

  One of the biggest changes to the Civilization system in the original Call to Power was the removal 
 of some of the city-specific micromanagement, which was intrinsic to the whole Civilization concept. 
 Instead of clicking through every city to adjust whether an individual worker was on a grassland 
 or a plains tile, Call to Power introduced the concept of "public works." You'd designate a certain 
 percentage of an empire's tax income to go to public works, and you'd use this pool of cash to 
 construct tile improvements. These tile improvements can be made to any tile within a city's sphere 
 of influence, and they don't require a specific worker to use them. Instead, a city reaps the benefits 
 of tile improvements as a function of population size.   

  This somewhat more large-scale adjustment is a definite design aim of the Call to Power series. 
 Most empire-building games focus heavily on micromanagement, and they have dozens of individual 
 factors that need to be taken into account. Call to Power II streamlines this by eliminating other 
 things, like individual city support for military units. The diplomacy system has been revamped 
 as well, and at first glance, it's one of the most robust additions to the game. Multipart diplomatic 
 overtures can be made, and proposals can have multiple parts and quid pro quo exchanges. You can 
 choose a "tone" to set with your approaches, and everything you do in the diplomatic arena affects 
 the other nations' regard for your own.   

  The only problem with the diplomacy aspect is that you receive far less feedback on your overtures 
 than you put in. Complex proposals are met with simple responses like "Your proposal has been rejected," 
 without any indication of why or what it means for future relations with that power. Diplomatic 
 systems in games like Sid Meier's Alpha Centauri, while nominally less flexible, give you a better 
 sense of interacting with other nations and thus feel more like actual diplomacy.   

  The victory conditions have also been adjusted. Instead of just the three all-conquering objectives 
 of the original, Call to Power II allows for a peaceful victory, in which a nation achieves a permanent 
 alliance with every other nation in the game. The alien-cloning victory of the original Call to 
 Power has been replaced by a science victory, in which your goal is to build the Gaia Controller 
 and all of its components. This is much like the Alpha Centauri victory of the very first Civilization 
 game.    

 A major alteration to the Civilization-style combat system in Call to Power was the ability to combine 
 up to 12 units into armies. The battle view that governed this combat was rather arbitrary, and 
 it simply distinguished between hand-to-hand combat units and ranged attackers by segregating them 
 into different ranks. Call to Power II introduces the concept of flanking units, which are not 
 as strong as melee units by themselves - but they greatly enhance the power of melee units when 
 the two are combined. The combat system is still hampered by the fact that you have no control 
 over unit placement on the tactical screen, and that you are essentially reduced to being a spectator 
 as the battle unfolds. Watching valuable units die because of seemingly random map placement can 
 be frustrating.   

  When you sum up all these changes, Call to Power II is definitely a superior game to Civilization: 
 Call to Power, which should be enough to recommend it to those players who did enjoy the previous 
 game. Unfortunately, all the rest will find that the basic design is so similar that the two games 
 can't help but share some shortcomings.   

  One problem stems from the fact that while the macrolevel of control eliminates some micromanagement, 
 it doesn't give you the ability to truly manage the game at the empire level. The need to build 
 new structures in each city is always there. For this reason, there is an option to have each city 
 run by a computer-controlled "mayor," and this mayor can be set to build structures with an eye 
 on different goals, such as offense, defense, science, gold, and the like. The mayors feature actually 
 works quite well when you use it selectively for cities that aren't in the front line of combat. 
 However, removing the unit support considerations makes it far easier to wage war, and with the 
 12-unit army system, Call to Power II (like its predecessor) replaces city micromanagement with 
 army micromanagement.   

  Civilization: Call to Power was unique in that it introduced unconventional units such as the lawyer, 
 the corporate branch, the televangelist, and other such weapons. Besides being a put-off for some 
 players who didn't like the deviation from the military-historical theme, these units ended up 
 unbalancing the endgame because they were so powerful. Having hordes of lawyers fight it out against 
 corporate branches by filing injunctions in A. D. 2500 almost seemed like a caricature of an empire-building 
 game.   

  These game-balance issues were exacerbated by the fact that the original Call to Power lasted until 
 the game-year A. D. 3000. Call to Power II shortens the game to A. D. 2300, which reduces the length 
 of time that these units are in play. Nevertheless, the final stages of a Call to Power II game 
 are still susceptible to the old problems, since the units themselves still exist. As before, there 
 is such a wide variety of threats inherent in the endgame that it's impossible to defend against 
 every one of them. However, the computer opponent in Call to Power II is weak enough that you'll 
 probably wipe the map with your armies before the enemy has a chance to deploy any of the more 
 unusual weapons - except on the very highest levels. But on the highest level or against a human 
 opponent, the same gameplay problems that hampered the original Call to Power will become evident. 
   

  Call to Power II has a lot of replay value. There are individual scenarios, a random map generator, 
 and a stable multiplayer option. There is no provision for play-by-e-mail, but with the reduced 
 micromanagement, online games should move more quickly than a game of Civilization II would.   
 

  In the end, playing Call to Power II seems like driving a car with a rebuilt engine: The first 
 one failed, and while you'll get some more life out of the new one, it's still living on borrowed 
 time. The original design flaws from Civilization: Call to Power haven't been removed from the 
 sequel, and while the sequel is more attractive and functional than its predecessor, it's still 
 effectively the same game. Call to Power II is an interesting take on a classic concept, but as 
 with many reinterpretations of canonical standards, it isn't better than its source material.  
   
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (3 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Phaje
Rating: 9.8
Date: Feb 2, 2007 8:56 am PT
Review:  Where to being... well, just read my review of the original Call to Power, for most of the reasons 
 why this game is so great, because the reasons are basically the same. My hate for Civ 3 and Civ 
 4 (and my sadness at the money I wasted on those bull**** titles) grows every time I play this 
 great game. But enough of the bashing of Civ 2, 3, and 4 and all their ungloriously ****tastic 
 lameness. The imporovements this game has over the original CtP are small but they help. New units, 
 slightly improved graphics, nice interface, it's all still there. Of course, this game has one 
 big difference and that is it is too short. You can only reach the year 2300, and while the Gamespot 
 reviewer (who shall not be insulted in here, but has my everlasting scorn at his foolish attempt 
 at a review... oh ****, I guess I will have to call him out for his review ) says that the original 
 game lasted way too long and got complicated near the end, ending in 2300 is far too soon. The 
 turns blaze by you as you build, evolve, and conquer, and before you know it, it is all over. Aside 
 from the length problem, the game is perfect. Unless you have a problem with basic brain function, 
 you should be able to comprehend and enjoy the game up to its 'complex' ending. Buy this game if 
 you can find it. Happy conquering! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Samrulez91
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 31, 2006 6:18 am PT
Review:  This game looks bad when you first play it, but after a while you will see how good is it. The 
 game has amazing depth, plays well, the graphics are pretty poor compared to today's standard but 
 are still ok.
  
  The range of units and actions are incredible even for today. The HUD is perfect for a game of 
 this type. Everything is there for when you want it. Everything is easily changeable and controllable. 
 I haven't noticed any bugs in the game but there probably are somewhere.
  
  What the game lacks is a proper camera system and a detailed battle view with a range of options. 
 But without this the game still works well. The music is a bit rubbish buts it varied for the different 
 time periods you go through in the game and you get use to it. The starting movie of the game looks 
 fantastic and so do all the other in-game movie. There isn't a campaign as such in this game. Just 
 3 or 4 pre-made scenarios. But maybe this game doesn't need a campaign as the skirmishes (I suppose 
 they could be called) last a long while or your prepared to stick to it. The game can also be too 
 short as when you take your turn, too many years pass, resulting in the time periods not being 
 long enough.
  
  Also, all the game's unit should still be available as you progress through time rather than disappearing 
 as time passes. The city building is relatively easy but should be more interactive and have a 
 city view (like Civilization II) .
  Overall, I think people should buy this game. I haven't seen it around so it might quite rare, 
 then again maybe its just where I live (in the UK) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: troakun
Rating: 8.1
Date: Jan 31, 2006 11:54 pm PT
Review:  The Plot: 
  Control your empire from fledgling to galactic.
  
  The Gameplay:
  For those of you who dont know this is basically regarded as the sequal bastard spin-off/cash-in 
 on the beloved series, Sid Meiers Civilization. Youd naturally figure that to be a bad thing 
 but actually its quite good taken in its own way. Probably the reason most civ. fans hate it is 
 its simplicity, not only that but its also relatively easy. The enemy AI is so bad that often 
 times you can go to war with someone and leave your towns free of defenses because non-barbarian 
 armies rarely bother to go into battle. Peace is pointless because even a small disadvantaged country 
 can come in and just take cities without having to quiver in fear of being attacked in return.
 
  City management and trade have also been overly simplified. In the Civ. Series you always had 
 to worry about collecting resources, food, and money. In this game you have no real reason to worry, 
 as long as you dont use to many specialist civilians your workers will be able to produce enough 
 food for themselves and usually more. Tradable resources arent needed but can provide you with 
 some extra cash but money is not essential in any form. Happiness as well is mostly unimportant 
 because it will take so much to irk your citizens into unhappiness; for example, my personal tactic 
 is to give my citizens minimal wages, maximum working hours, while rationing their food as much 
 as I can, what do they have to say about it? Meh, its a living.
  As you can see if there is one thing that Call to Power is not, its complex and/or challenging. 
 What CtP2 does well has a lot to do with features that the Civ. series mostly hasnt bothered with. 
 Future tech., for example, in Civ. Is good for points only. In CtP2, you can build future tech 
 governments, units, as well as tile and city improvements. This means that the endgame results 
 in something very different than the Civ. Series. 
  
  The Graphics:
  Fairly good, makes Civ. 1 and 2 look like jokes of course.
  
  The Sounds:
  Same as other 
 Civ. games, lots of world music. If there is one complaint though its that it stays the same throughout 
 the ages and no matter which Civ. youre playing as.
  
  The Multiplay:
  You can play online but good luck finding someone to play with.
  
  The Replay:
  Plenty, theres 
 nothing like staying up twelve hours past your bed time to invade you neighboring countries.
  
  The Bottom Line:
  So you see, this game is a lot like Civ., but without all the things that 
 get in your way, like strategy. That way you can concentrate on what is the most fun, developing 
 futuristic technology and crushing any feeble culture that stands in your way. Obviously this wont 
 go over well with strategy fans and players who want a challenge but if you think about it, if 
 your going to play a God game, why should you have to try? So what if the enemys at the gates, 
 Im God, Ill just open cheat mode and make fusion tanks appear out of thin air while nuking their 
 cities. Sound fun? If it doesnt, than stay with Civ., if it does than this games for you.
  
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
