-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Call of Duty: United Offensive
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/action/callofdutyunitedoffensive/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Sep 14, 2004
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8.9
Critic Score: 8.7, 58 Review (s)
User Score: 9.1, 5,361 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Activision
Developer: Gray Matter
Genre: Historic First-Person...
Date:     Sep 14, 2004 &raquo;  
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
United Offensive is an excellent expansion that takes the intensity of Call of Duty and ratchets 
 it up even higher. 

  There's no doubt that Call of Duty was one of the standout shooters of 2003 thanks to its addictive 
 blend of intense single-player action and wild multiplayer gameplay. By taking its cues from Hollywood 
 movies and television shows such as  Band of Brothers , Call of Duty manages to immerse you in 
 a virtual cinematic experience as you fight the battles of World War II on the front lines. So 
 it's not too hard to imagine that developer Gray Matter faced a daunting task when it was asked 
 to make an expansion for Call of Duty, which was originally developed by Infinity Ward. However, 
 apparently Gray Matter was more than up to the task, because the developer took everything that 
 was great about Call of Duty and then ratcheted the gameplay's intensity even higher. The result 
 is that Call of Duty: United Offensive is a truly great expansion.  

          Get ready to receive waves of Germans in the many harrowing battles of United Offensive. 
     

  United Offensive follows a similar format to that found in Call of Duty. You play as three Allied 
 soldiers -- an American paratrooper, a British SAS commando, and a Soviet infantryman -- who are caught 
 in the great struggle against Nazi Germany. Over the course of the single-player campaign, you'll 
 go from the frozen siege of Bastogne during the Battle of the Bulge to the epic German counterattack 
 at Kursk. Throughout most of the campaign, you'll participate in huge, heavily scripted, set-piece 
 battles that make the squad-based battles in Call of Duty look downright minuscule in comparison. 

  A good case in point involves Bastogne, which represents the opening segment of the expansion. 
 After a short joyride in an American jeep through German lines (not unlike the similar sequence 
 found in Call of Duty) , you and your fellow paratroopers have to repulse a powerful German attack 
 on American lines. While a battle in Call of Duty usually involved Germans that came at you in 
 manageable numbers at a time, the sheer number of opponents that the computer throws at you in 
 United Offensive is almost overwhelming (at times) . We're not just talking infantry, either, because 
 the Germans come at you with tanks and half-tracks as well. With gunfire and tracer fire all around, 
 you must run from foxhole to foxhole in a desperate defense of the lines. And just when you think 
 that things can't get more intense, P-51 fighter-bombers streak in on devastating bombing runs. 
 It's an awe-inspiring moment, to say the least.  

  The expansion switches gears a bit for the British portion of the campaign by starting you off 
 as a gunner in a B-17 Flying Fortress that's on a bombing mission over Germany. It's a visually 
 stunning sequence, though you don't get to do much other than shoot down waves of incoming Luftwaffe 
 fighters. Luckily, it's a one-time event, so you'll spend the rest of the British campaign on the 
 ground partaking in commando missions that are probably closest in scale and scope to those found 
 in Call of Duty. These include a  Guns of Navarone -style mission where your team must destroy 
 coastal guns that are threatening the invasion of Sicily. While packed with variety, the British 
 segment of the campaign feels relatively low-key compared to the rest of the expansion, mainly 
 because it lacks the massive set-piece battles that are at the heart of the American and Soviet 
 segments of the campaign.  

  Thankfully, the gameplay returns to over-the-top form with the Soviet portion of the campaign, 
 where you and your Soviet comrades face Hitler's last major offensive on the eastern front. This 
 segment weaves from chaotic trench warfare to house-to-house -- and even room-to-room -- combat as 
 you attempt to clear the Germans from a broken and burned-out city. It culminates in a climactic 
 battle for a rail yard that pits you against oncoming German infantry and tanks, with Stuka dive-bombers 
 making strafing runs over your positions. It definitely makes for a harrowing experience.  

          During the British missions, you can fly as a gunner on board a B-17 over Germany, where 
 the Luftwaffe swarms all over you like flies.     

  About the only complaint about the single-player campaign is that it's not that long. The fast 
 pace of the action works against the game, because there's somewhere between six and 10 hours of 
 total gameplay, depending on how proficiently you're able to get past the tough parts, of which 
 there are many. On the medium difficulty level, you can generally get past most battles and encounters 
 after one or two attempts, but there are some notable sequences that may require a greater number 
 of tries. The key in those situations is to recognize what the problem is and to figure out a way 
 around it. The original Call of Duty featured its own fair share of challenging, almost puzzle-like 
 sequences like these, so the overall level of difficulty in United Offensive is actually about 
 the same.  

  You'll also get some new toys to play with, including semiautomatic rifles for the Germans and 
 Soviets, which represent more than welcome additions. Another big addition is the machine gun, 
 like the German MG34 and the American .30-caliber, which can deliver a heavy rate of fire but which 
 can only be used while stationary  and  prone. And since Gray Matter developed Return to Castle 
 Wolfenstein, it's not too surprising to see that it has imported the memorable flamethrower from 
 that game to United Offensive.     

  After you've exhausted the single-player campaign, you can look forward to the impressive new multiplayer 
 modes in United Offensive, which reinvent the multiplayer features from Call of Duty. For example, 
 there are 11 new, huge maps that easily dwarf the largest multiplayer levels from Call of Duty. 
 United Offensive also introduces vehicles to the mix -- mainly jeeps and tanks. Jeeps are useful 
 for scooting around the map quickly, while tanks have their obvious benefits. Tanks aren't too 
 overwhelming, though, since both teams have access to armor, and there is usually plenty of antitank 
 weaponry laying around for infantry. Snipers are less of a problem with tanks around, and it also 
 helps that the maps are so large that snipers are more spread out. In fact, one of the nightmares 
 of Call of Duty's multiplayer was the high concentration of snipers on relatively small maps, which 
 often turned the entire affair into camping fests.  

          United Offensive also features a sea-based mission, which is a first for the series. Check 
 out the pretty water.     

  The new multiplayer modes certainly feel influenced by the popular Battlefield 1942, particularly 
 with the addition of the vehicles. The domination mode is very much like Battlefield 1942's conquest 
 mode in that each team must take over a set of strategic points on the map to win. Though it lacks 
 the sheer variety of Battlefield 1942 in terms of settings and vehicles, it still makes for a fun 
 gameplay experience as your team has to use combined arms tactics effectively in order to win. 
 Base assault is another new mode that should prove popular, as the goal for each team is to destroy 
 the opposing team's bunkers. The catch is that destroying a bunker is a two-stage affair. First, 
 the bunker has to be shattered by heavy weapons fire, and then infantry must run into the gutted 
 ruins to plant explosives. The maps themselves are well designed, and most of them offer a mix 
 of huge, open areas for vehicle combat, along with narrow, indoor areas that are perfect for close-quarters 
 infantry combat. A good example of this is the Berlin level, which offers narrow streets for tanks 
 to roam, and plenty of gutted buildings where infantry can hide and lay ambushes, as well as a 
 sewer system to move around. Then there's Kharkov, which features huge, wide-open avenues, as well 
 as rooftops where infantry can rain antitank rounds down on tanks.  

  Another welcome multiplayer addition is a ranking system that rewards players for helping their 
 teams win the match. Above each player is a rank symbol, which resets at the beginning of each 
 match. The more you help your team win by seizing objective locations, the higher you rise in rank. 
 A high rank means that you get special bonuses, like extra grenades, and at higher ranks, you have 
 access to binoculars which can be used to call in powerful artillery strikes. The rank system is 
 a good incentive to actually work as a member of the team rather than running around as a lone 
 wolf, as you get more points for seizing objectives than you do for simply killing the enemy.  
 

  It's worth mentioning that we encountered a slight bug while playing United Offensive. The expansion 
 retains Call of Duty's mechanic that prevents you from opening doors on your own. As a result, 
 you have to wait for another soldier to run up and open a door for you. The problem is, we ran 
 into a couple of instances in which the scripting broke, and that soldier didn't appear. So then 
 we had to go back to an earlier save point. Also, though you can quicksave the game at any point, 
 it automatically saves at certain checkpoints, which is helpful when you're caught up in the game's 
 action. However, when you're low on health, the autosaving doesn't kick in (apparently so that 
 you aren't stuck at death's door if you load up the saved game) . We mistakenly thought this was 
 a bug as we played through long stretches without any autosaving.  

          It sure is fortunate that there's an antiaircraft gun nearby when the German heavy bombers 
 appear over Kharkov.     

  As testament to the sheer amount of chaos on the screen, United Offensive pushes the aged Quake 
 III engine to its limits, and even high-end machines may stutter at times to keep up with all the 
 action. However, the action is generally smooth, and the graphics have even been improved a bit 
 from Call of Duty. In particular, explosions and smoke effects are rendered beautifully now, and 
 it's a visual treat to watch an artillery barrage rain down around you. You'll see trees shatter, 
 huge plumes of dirt will kick up into the air, and the earth will shake all around you. And, yes, 
 the excellent sound effects that were in Call of Duty are back, from the overwhelming noise of 
 gunfire and explosions to the squeal of tank treads in the distance to the dreaded sound of a Stuka 
 dive-bomber coming in for a bombing run.  

  By turning up the intensity, United Offensive breathes new life into Call of Duty, which is saying 
 quite a bit, because Call of Duty is an impressive game by itself. Nonetheless, this is an excellent 
 expansion. The single-player campaign may be a bit brief, but it's packed with plenty of cinematic 
 moments, and the new multiplayer gameplay should keep you busy long after you've blown through 
 the single-player game. It's a no-brainer to say that United Offensive is a must-have if you enjoyed 
 Call of Duty.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (172 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: PlaidBaron
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 15, 2009 6:50 am PT
Review:  Call of Duty United Offensive adds a lot to the original game, especially in the multiplayer department. 
 In fact, it adds enough that one should really treat this expansion as it's own game, despite the 
 fact you do need Call of Duty to play it.
  
  When you start off playing United Offensive, you are immediately thrown into combat, as it assumes 
 you have played Call of Duty and know the controls. When playing this first mission, it really 
 dawns on you "This is going to be a lot harder than the original". This first mission gives you 
 the sense of intense gameplay that one will experience throughout their time playing United Offensive. 
 From The Battle of the Bulge, to Kursk, you will be in a constant struggle to survive and complete 
 your objectives. That is not to say that the game is too hard, as it is definitely completable. 
 In fact, one of the downsides of the game is that the single player campaign is fairly short. But 
 longer, more intense missions more than make up for this shortcoming, and United Offensive is one 
 of those games that once you finish it, you feel as though you have accomplished something great. 
 Not to mention that the gameplay in single player varies widely from each country you play as throughout 
 the campaign. During the American campaign for instance, you will always be fighting a careful 
 defensive or offensive battle against the seemingly endless amounts of Germans. As the British, 
 you will fight special forces style, sneaking around bases and generally blowing all sorts of stuff 
 up. Then you have the Russians. The Russian campaign is when the game really picks up. You will 
 be constantly preventing your lines from collapse, and most likely will be scrounging for those 
 miraculous health boxes to keep you alive. Overall, United Offensive offers a tastefully challenging 
 single player experience with a refreshingly wide amount of gameplay thrown into the mix.
  
  Perhaps the best aspect of United Offensive is all the great features and stuff it really adds. 
 For starters, one of the best things ever done to Call of Duty was the sprint button. No, this 
 was not started in the revolutionary Call of Duty 4, but in the "humble" expansion pack United 
 Offensive. It isn't just a novelty either. It plays a crucial role in both single and multiplayer 
 games. In fact, you can't even complete a mission without it. Perhaps my favorite addition to the 
 expansion, is the presence of deployable machine guns that can be carried around the battlefield. 
 Not that this removes the powerful stationary machine guns we have all come to love, but it gives 
 you a smaller, less powerful, portable version to play with. The one downside to this however, 
 is the fact that you must deploy it in order to fire it, and that deploying sequence is rather 
 long. This is fine in singleplayer to be sure, but in multiplayer it is a totally different story. 
 By the time you've deployed it, you will most likely die in the next minute or so. Sure it's realistic, 
 but it limits it's multiplayer potential drastically. In fact, you will seldom see a machine gun 
 totting soldier in multiplayer, if any at all. United offensive does offer some other new weapons 
 as well, such as the Webley Revolver, but for the most part keeps the original weapons of the game. 
 That is, except for my favorite weapon in the game: the flamethrower. That's right, actually introduced 
 in this expansion pack and not World at War, this weapon is absolutely deadly, and is seen in both 
 singleplayer and multiplayer maps. It is really only in a few singleplayer missions, and in few 
 multiplayer maps as well. Additionally, you cannot start out with this weapon, as it is treated 
 as a special weapon you must find on the battlefield, similarly to the FG-42. Also, don't expect 
 much ammo out of this weapon, as it comes with little and burns up extremely fast. Perhaps the 
 best feature in multiplayer is the addition of drivable vehicles. (Nope, this didn't start in World 
 at War either) . In most game modes, any map with vehicles will allow you to drive either tanks, 
 or jeep-like personnel vehicles. This of course increases the amount of anti-tank weaponry on the 
 battlefield. This includes panzerfausts, bazooka's and even a handful of stationary flak 88's that 
 you can shoot directly at incoming tanks. Of course, the addition of vehicles lends the game to 
 a new game mode. Base Assault is a multi-player game mode in which your objective is to destroy 
 the other teams three bunkers. First with tanks, and then by planting a bomb inside. This gives 
 multiplayer matches the excitement and challenge to match that of the singleplayer experience. 
 It should be noted that for whatever reason, not that many people play multiplayer on this great 
 old game anymore, most likely due to newer games in the genre. Still, this shouldn't deter you 
 from getting it. There are always some servers available with people who play this great game, 
 despite its age, but if you are into huge multiplayer battles, and plenty of servers, you should 
 note that there are not many active servers left for this game.
  
  Graphics: Of course this game is old, so you have to bear with the relatively clunky graphics, 
 but at the time, they were top of the line.
  Gameplay: This Call of Duty can easily compare to newer ones in this field. Both exciting singleplayer 
 and multiplayer games make gameplay exceptional.
  Innovation: This game scores pretty high in this category due to the endless amounts of additions 
 and improvements to the original Call of Duty. Some of these features only just coming back in 
 newer Call of Duty's.
  Story: Even though the game focuses around World War II battles, this game still has a great story, 
 and the characters have their own distinct personality. 
  Replay Value: This game doesn't have the best replay value in the world to be sure, but it's got 
 a lot. Multiplayer games are always different and tons of fun to play.
  
  Call of Duty United Offensive is innovative, challenging, and just loads of fun. Despite it's relatively 
 old age, I guarantee you that you will be playing this game for hours and hours on end, without 
 it ever getting old. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kro_429
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 28, 2009 10:13 pm PT
Review:  The singleplayer doesn't really stand out to me that much. It's okay, nothing amazing, a few nice 
 changes in ideas from most of the other Call of Duty's but nothing groundbreaking.
  
  The multiplayer still stands (to me) as the best of the series. A good combination of Jeeps for 
 fast movements on large battlefields, tanks (which take realistic damage unlike the crap ones in 
 WaW) , and excellent map design create an engrossing experience which is only limited by the number 
 of servers still online nowadays. Capture the Flag was introduced here for the first time and excels 
 in maps like Cassino, Ponyri, and Kharkov, especially with the vehicles. The bolt action rifles 
 (with good hit detection, unlike WaW) , create a fantastic experience for skilled players. Everything 
 about the multiplayer oozes with fantastic design and endless fun. Many will argue, saying with 
 the implementation of more specifically balanced gameplay and better ranking systems in the later 
 CoDs that UO is simply inferior. However, I find the more basic game design, easier on the eyes 
 map design, and overall beatiful simplicity create a wonderful experience for the gamer.
  
  Besides, I have yet to find an experience better than a 32 man server on Kharkov, slowly sneaking 
 from building to building with a Kar98k and Panzerfaust, bashing infantry, and stealthily flanking 
 and one hitting tanks. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Domac12345
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 5, 2009 9:48 am PT
Review:  why this must have more than 100 words anyway i don't like first person shooting games, but when 
 i played this i knowed that i have made a mistake. now i need to make 100 more words d d d d d d 
 d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d 
 d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d 
 d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d 
 d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d dd d d d d d d d d d d d dd 
 d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d 
 d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d dd d d d d d d d 
 d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d 
 d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d 
 d d d d dd d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d 
 d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d 
 d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d 
 d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d 
 d d d d d d dd d d d 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KingLim
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 21, 2008 5:15 am PT
Review:  Other than some new weapons and a slightly upscaled challenge, United Offensive retains the same 
 quality-assured consistency of the original. There's quite a number of stages involving vehicles 
 and one of the best part is in the B-17 Bomber. There's simply no time to think and catch a breath 
 in this mouse-and-keyboard-fumbling stage where you have to go Rambo on a few dozen fighter planes 
 in the famous Brit bomber in a critical period of time. The experience is amazing.
  
  Call of Duty is a hard game and its expansion upped the challenge even more with tightly controlled 
 ammo distribution and unforgiving A. I. You would find yourself out of ammo frequently if you always 
 get holed up somewhere. The A. I. would keep respawning in strategic flanking spots if you won't 
 advance to the next point, and so it's always hard to keep your lifebar up when most of the time 
 you have to bash through the enemy ranks to stop the spawning. Quick saves and reloads are a staple 
 diet here.
  
  Though the game is fairly short, it's so demanding that it's very rewarding to complete and you 
 would want to award yourself a medal after the ordeal, a satisfying one.
  
  KingLim 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rohitmitra5752
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 27, 2008 6:18 am PT
Review:  One thing you will feel while playing CODUo is that there are simply too many enemies. COD made 
 tougher doesn't quite get you anywhere.
  COD does not improve on it's predecessors, as it doesn't have to. A few new guns on all sides just 
 pump up the fun. The order of the missions is the same as the previous - American, British and 
 Russian.
  The American mission starts off with a patrol running into the German army, full in advance towards 
 the Allied lines. You are then driven by Sergeant Moody (those who played CoD will remember him) 
 to the lines where you are asked to hide in a foxhole and stop the German advance - sometimes with 
 a Heavy Machine Gun, sometimes with a Sniper and sometimes with a Bazooka. What happens next is 
 the Battle of the Buldge (see the film for more info on this matter) .
  The British mission according to me was by far the toughest mission in any game. You start off 
 as a Gunner in a bomber plane and must practically strike the entire Luftwaffe (German Air Force) 
 to protect your plane while your it flies over to the target. I had to play it 17 times to get 
 past the Air Force as they always seemed to blow me out. My officers were particularly irritating 
 as they ordered me to do everything ("Doyle, get to the Dorsal Gunner", "Doyle, get to the Tail 
 Gun", "Doyle, turn off the valve or i'll shoot you") . There is also a mission from the film "Guns 
 of Navaronne", though I'm not quite sure whether it is the British mission or the American.
  The Russian missions are comparatively easier, if you get what I mean.
  All in all, Call of Duty 
 - United Offensive is for those who like to taste the true flavor of a war. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sotired
Rating: 6
Date: Sep 4, 2008 2:16 pm PT
Review:  I'm sure most people won't agree with me (boo hoo) , but I'm totally disappointed with Call of Duty: 
 United Offensive. Gray Matter's idea of expanding the excellent Call of Duty is to simply... Make 
 it much more difficult.
  
  I played Call of Duty and enjoyed it very much. But I find Call of Duty: United Offensive simply 
 too difficult to enjoy.
  
  What I liked about Call of Duty was the balance, the pacing, the clear objectives, and the overall 
 storyline and continuity. None of this is made better by making it harder to play.
  
  Note that I am not complaining about the intensity. I appreciate well-executed intensity. But there 
 is a big difference between "intensity" and "difficulty". I've only played Call of Duty: United 
 Offensive for a couple hours at this point, and I'm already not enjoying it, because repeatedly 
 watching the screen fade and then waiting for the Continue button to appear is not my idea of fun.
 
  
  I'm sure many gamers have no idea what I'm talking about. Maybe I just have terrible hand-to-eye 
 coordination. Or maybe it's just that I don't have 72 hours per week to devote to honing my skills. 
 Either way, I'm not backing down from my opinion on this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bammaster726
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 25, 2008 6:41 pm PT
Review:  You couldnt have asked for a better expanison for COD. It add so many new weapons and the ability 
 to drive vehicles just makes the feeling of fighting a war as a team so much better. The multiplayer 
 is one of the best for war games and is a classic. Heck this games is over 5 years old and it still 
 ROCKS.... its that good. Instantly you are immersed into a new world. I get into the game so much 
 that I actually yell at my computer and get afraid when I see that big tank turn its canon toward 
 me. Expansion offers better shooting... blood is cooler, youu actually can run out of bullets for 
 once, and the maps are like 4-6 times the size or more of the normal COD...... MANY NEW GAME TYPES... COD 
 IS WITHOUT A DOUBT THE BEST WAR GAME SERIES EVER AND SO FAR STAYS TRUE GOING INTO THE 5TH COD NOW.... THE 
 ORIGINAL COD MAY BE OLD.... BUT BUY IT.... ITS A CLASSIC AND SHOWS WHERE WAR GAMES REALLY STARTED 
 TO GET GOOD. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gpvs
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 3, 2008 11:34 am PT
Review:  Call of duty  United Offensive is an excellent historic first person shooter upgrade of Call of 
 Duty and boy they did not disappoint.
  
  The Menus
  The Menus are nicely laid out, without any fussy or unnecessary settings to fiddle around with, 
 controllers are programmable, but the standard layout works excellently with correct layouts for 
 all functionality.
  
  Gameplay
  The game play lived up to all expectations, this is truly an upgrade to the 1st in the series, 
 not only as an expansion but in the graphics department as well, and in fact one could say 2 different 
 graphical worlds at all.
  
  United offensive also introduced added game play features like tanks, boats, and aircrafts, sneaking 
 around are easier than in the previous release as if map restrictions were almost lifted, if one 
 seeks around it is in most cases possible to find a secondary path or by physically sneaking up 
 behind the enemy and surprising them from the back.
  
  One negative / irritating part of the game I did not truly like was annoying alarm systems in buildings, 
 with no way I could find to disable them without physically switching off the computer speaker 
 system.
  
  There are some glitches here and there for example on the stage called "bomber" I struggled at 
 one time to move away from the front gunner position after releasing by pressing "f" on the keyboard, 
 I actually had to reload a previous save to continue playing.
  
  In the glitches department I have also noticed that some perimeter mines did not explode after 
 been triggered. (Hey great for me)
  
  In game saving and reloading are easily obtained by utilizing the F5, F9 keys.
  
  Command Voices 
 are clear to understand and should you miss anything press Tab to see new objectives, then find 
 the objective by utilizing the mini-map.
  
  If ever you stumble across a MP44 (Looks like an AK47) , do pick it up, you will not be disappointed 
 but I have to say in United Offensive there are far fewer of these loveable weapons laying around 
 than in the original version of Call of Duty, else use the MP40 as ammo are almost always available.
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: marktsy
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jul 26, 2008 10:20 am PT
Review:  This game has awsome non repetative graphics, sound is nice, and the campaing is long, and you 
 need to develop a strategy in some cases as if you don; t you are killed. I also liket he feature 
 were you can save quickly, if you find teh cheats, you are in for a lot of fun, and it has ecellent 
 value. BUT really big problem, every now and again, teh game won; t let you move on even when you 
 are supposed to, like you did what you have to and when you come to a door (they have to be opened 
 for you) they won; t open it, or a tan won; t put a hole in the wall that you need to get through. 
 Guns there are a devent number of guns in COD United offensive howecer, some guns are called differently 
 look the same but work in exactly the same way, and only unfortuanate thing is that you need different 
 ammo but damage reload time clip size are all the same, for exaomple, gewher (german) and tokarev 
 SVT 40 are examples, also kar98k and mossin magant. SO unlike in halo, some weapons will be like 
 eachother. Finding your way arounf withou bug s is relativly easy especially with the compasss 
 thingy that shows were to completre your next objective. you may be hurt by the fact that you are 
 on the russian american team ( they only speak english) and fight germans (which speak in an authenitc 
 german) It is not blody or gorey and they don; t swear, health packs, come in 5 25 50 i think no 
 one hundred but there may be 2 50's not a higr selection of grenades. unlike halo you get two primary 
 weapons, adn a pistol or binaculors, sometimes you don; t already have it and need to find one and 
 you only get one "pack of grenades) not like in halo that you geet two. You don; t need a power 
 house PC but a decent one would be good, works woth vista and last thing i will say is that i have 
 a gaming PC so the bugs are not because of teh computer 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mega-Tom
Rating: 9
Date: May 30, 2008 5:41 am PT
Review:  Call of Duty United Offencive is yet another PC game addon and, like the original is still an awesome 
 game.
  
  Story - Very good story line that continues on from the original in COD. Very well scripted and 
 very well designed. 
  
  Graphics - same as the original COD game. Dated now compared to new games and COD2 but still that 
 shouldnt put you off, the game is excellent.
  
  Weapons and Character Models - Weapons look and feel excellent in this game, easy to use/handle 
 wile in gunfights. They sound excellent as well. Character Models are very good. they dont move 
 as well as you would expect and there by far best feature is crawling prown.
  
  Overview - This is a must have game if you have the original, its fast, fun, exciting and worth 
 every single penny of the small price that you will pay for it now. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CoD_killeru
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 13, 2008 1:41 pm PT
Review:  The expansion pack for Call of Duty is a game who worth playing it. The campaignes are cool, the 
 mission meaneather. Is one of the most addictive games ever made, but the graphics don't changed 
 (even has passed a year from Call of Duty make-up. In the United Offensive has appeared some new 
 weapons: the semi-automatic rifles Gewehr 43 (German) and Tokarev SVT-40 (Russian) , some new pistols 
 (Webley MK4 - Brittish ; Tokarev TT30 - Russian) , and the rocket launchers (American Bazooka and 
 German Panzerschreck) .
  
  The American campaign is a chain of missions: 'The Battle for Bastogne'.
  Here you will play 
 as Scott Riley, and play trough 4 incredible missions.
  
  In the Brittish you will be Sgt. Doyle from the Brittish RAF, and then you will become one of the 
 S. A. S. soldiers.
  
  The Russian campaign is the most exciting in the game, because here are The Battle for Kursk and 
 Kharkov.
  
  But better than reading this you should try this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LoJo10
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 20, 2007 2:20 pm PT
Review:  Call of Duty United Offensive has a new lengthy campaign. You will see some of the same characters 
 from the original, particularly on the American side.
  
  There again are three sides you fight as with each having their own campaign. There are the Americans, 
 the British, and the Russians, and you play their campaigns in that order. They are all put together 
 well.
  
  I will say this about the campaigns - they all seem very fragmented. You are basically thrown into 
 situations where you have absolutely no idea what's going on, and you have no real sense of purpose. 
 You feel no emotional connection to your squad-mates.
  
  I just mention this difference to contrast it with the original Call of Duty, where you have a 
 better sense of what's going on. In the original game, you felt this sense of camaraderie as you 
 were playing, because your squad was always complaining and the sergeant always telling them to 
 shut up. You don't feel that quite as much in this game.
  
  The story for this game is also darker than that of the original. At the end, it's not as satisfying 
 as the original Call of Duty's ending - there's no feeling that you won the war like you did in 
 that game. But nevertheless, it's still a good game.
  
  All the game-play from the original is pretty much exactly the same. And the graphics look identical 
 as well.
  
  I should also mention the difficulty level. This game is very hard. The people who made the game 
 ratcheted the difficulty level so that it is way harder than the original. 
  
  The game is smooth and runs well. There are no huge bugs that make the game unplayable.
  
  
 If you are buying the game for its multi-player component exclusively - don't. Hardly anyone plays 
 it anymore. They added vehicles, smoke grenades, and submachine guns, which, in theory would be 
 very cool, but because of the way the game was originally designed it doesn't work well in the 
 multi-player experience.
  
  I actually did buy it specifically for the multi-player, but I didn't like it, so I just stopped 
 playing multi-player. I then finished the campaign.
  
  I say a lot of negative things in this review about the game, but it actually is a very well put 
 together game, and for those who liked the original Call of Duty they'll certainly enjoy this expansion 
 pack.
  
  It's nothing revolutionary; it's just more of the same - which isn't always a bad thing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: totalgridlock
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 3, 2007 3:01 am PT
Review:  As the first, last and only official expansion to the outstanding World War II shooter, Call of 
 Duty, United Offensive has a lot to live up to. The title was developed by the now-defunct Gray 
 Matter; the team responsible for other great WWII titles such as Return to Castle Wolfenstein and 
 one console-exclusive Call of Duty outing, Big Red One.
  
  United Offensive does not pick up the story of any of Call of Duty's three main characters, instead 
 you take control of several new soldiers. Once again the single-player campaign sees you tackling 
 missions from the viewpoints of American, British and Soviet forces, and again the storyline and 
 missions take many cues from familiar WWII movies. Probably the most memorable part of the game 
 is the British campaign; sending you through a fiendishly difficult mission as a B-17 gunner, before 
 aiding the Dutch resistance and even clambering up Sicilian mountains, Guns of Navarone-style. 
 From the opening mission in Bastogne, which instantly evokes Band of Brothers, it is clear that 
 not only is United Offensive a well-made expansion pack, it is easily the equal of the original 
 game in both gameplay and cinematic quality, even surpassing it in many regards.
  
  The basics of gameplay remain much the same as in the original Call of Duty. Running and gunning 
 your way through plenty of missions that will test your trigger-finger to the limit. Often it seems 
 like the entire German army is being thrown against your position, and the exhilarating feeling 
 when you finally shoot, snipe or blow up that last enemy is second to none. There is perhaps an 
 even greater variety of missions this time around, including the above-mentioned aerial gunner 
 role, massive co-ordinated offensives, one-man army missions and plenty of tanks. Everyone loves 
 tanks. There are a few new weapons this time around too  the awesome flamethrower is my personal 
 favourite addition. As well as this, there are a couple of new abilities in United Offensive, including 
 the ability to deploy machine guns and to sprint  perfect for getting under cover before that 
 air strike hits you.
  
  The multi-player side of things once more provides a wealth of options to choose from, with some 
 bigger and better maps to choose from and a few new modes to boot. 'Domination' sees you trying 
 your best to control a certain number of points on a map, 'base assault' is as the name implies, 
 and there is a more traditional form of capture the flag thrown in for good measure. In addition 
 to new maps and modes there is now a ranking system in place, with higher ranks (achieved by increasing 
 your score) earning better weapons and benefits.
  
  Obviously, graphics-wise United Offensive looks almost identical to the main game. The game is 
 still running on a modified Quake III engine, with the range of features this allows. Once again, 
 there is nothing on the level one would see in a new title, but the environments are particularly 
 well-designed  perhaps even more so than Call of Duty itself. We see freezing, snow-covered forests, 
 burnt-out and bomb-decimated cities, pleasantly scenic island locations, muddy trenches and more 
  often a nice change from the 'Normandy farmland' views of many WWII games.
  
  Music once again comes courtesy of Michael Giacchino's original score, which provides a suitably 
 rousing aural experience, accompanied with many of the same 'authentic-enough' sound effects from 
 the original title. Obviously United Offensive provides little change overall in the sound department 
  most notable is the lack of familiar, famous voices as in Call of Duty itself, although the new 
 cast do a great job of providing vocal talent for the many characters you meet during gameplay.
 
  
  I would recommend finding a copy of United Offensive if you enjoyed Call of Duty. While on the 
 surface it is simply more of the same, an extra four hours of single-player gameplay and the many 
 multi-player enhancements make it more than worth it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GamingBoy2009
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 13, 2007 6:55 pm PT
Review:  Call of Duty United Offensive is an expansion to the PC game Call of Duty. When Call of Duty first 
 came out, I though the intensity of COD would never be topped but CODUO proved me wrong.
  
  Call of Duty United Offensive works similar to the original Call of Duty: You play as 3 soldiers, 
 each from America, Britain and Russia. As these 3 soldiers, your goal is to fight through 13 new 
 missions battling the Nazis all the way to Berlin. Its the same concept as Call of Duty but the 
 gameplay has changed. The gameplay is very intense. Sure COD had intensity but this one notches 
 that intensity up even further. You will fight in long firefights with exploding artillery surrounding 
 you as well as planes flying overhead and the constant loud noises of machine guns and rifles. 
 This will create such an immersive experience that you wont find in most other games.
  
  United Offensive also provides more weapons to use. For example, the only machine gun in COD was 
 the MG42, now they added the .30 Cal machine gun for the Americans and the MG34 for the Germans. 
 Also, UO adds new side arms. Originally COD just had the Colt .45 and the Lugar, now they added 
 the TT-33 for the Russians and the Webley revolver for the British. Theres much more new weapons 
 to be used but I dont want to expose them all.
  
  United Offensive also gives you the opportunity to play missions that actually took place in real 
 life including the Battle of the Bulge and the battle of Kursk. You can even leave the usual foot 
 battles and become a crew member of a B-17 bomber. That mission is really fun.
  
  Multiplayer works the same way as COD but this time you can use the extra weapons and play on 11 
 new maps. Still as fun as COD dont worry.
  
  Alright, to break it down, the good side of this game is the extra weapons and new maps and levels, 
 intensity is even higher and its got a great soundtrack. The graphics remain the same.
  
  The only bad side of this game is that its shorter than COD which I believe is the only reason 
 why I dont give this a perfect score of 10.
  
  Overall, its a great game. If you have $10 burning a hole in your pocket and your looking for an 
 intense immersive shooter, then this one is worth every penny. BTW, just in case you dont know, 
 especially the new PC gamers, you need Call of Duty to play it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bthrustr
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 13, 2007 6:50 pm PT
Review:  I enjoyed Untied Offensive, the expansion pack to Call of Duty, and found it to be a step above 
 the original game. The graphics were a bit better and the gameplay more complex. However, the later 
 Russian missions became so expansive that they slowed my aging system to a crawl which made playing 
 at times a bit frustrating with very slow frame rates. Those with newer systems will have no problems. 
 
  The battles were always changing, giving you a chance to fight tank battles, bomber runs and plenty 
 of various environments for battlefields. I had cranked up the skill level in this one since the 
 basic skill level in the original Call of Duty made it TOO easy at times. This made the game more 
 realistic but also very easy to be killed with one or two shots. Still, it made the expansion pack 
 last as long, if not longer than the original game for me. 
  AS you might guess by reading the reviews here, if you liked the original, this is a mandatory 
 follow-up to keep you in the action. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: filaria
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 3, 2007 10:27 am PT
Review:  Playing through uo constituted some my most memorable moments in gaming. From defending a bomber 
 to manning a gun on a boat to riding on a bike to using a .30 cal on a willy jeep...... cod uo offers 
 whatever ud expect from a call of duty title and a hell lot more. The game wont b goin easy on u 
 in the beginning n toughen up later.... the difficulty is pretty much uniformly spread throughout 
 the levels and its intense.... damn intense!!! Probably of the most intensive PC titles out there. Definitely 
 tougher than cod 1 this game had some people complaining that it was too hard.... well it aint that 
 hard.... lets put it this way-it isnt frustrating.
  
  uo has a huge collection of weapons with plenty of new ones minus a few weapons from cod1. What 
 u wont find here is the Bren LMG, the sten and well thats it..... what u wud find new here are the 
 Bazooka, panzershreck (anti tank)
   sten and a flame thrower.
  
  uo also gives u the chance to use deployable machine guns like the mg 42.... only here ull deploy 
 the mg34, dp28,.30 cal (german, russian and american variants of the mg42) .... this is very helpful 
 in places where ud want a machine gun but there aint any.... the downside to this is probably the 
 fact the time delay in setting up the machine gun can easily get u killed. Deployable MG's is one 
 thing even cod 2 doesnt offer. This deployment came in handy in the 3rd level-Foy both while defending 
 the chateau n covering sgt. moody. Oh n yea some old characters return frm cod 1 return in uo-Sgt. 
 Moody n Cpt. Foley.
  
  The bomber level was probably the easiest.... the american n russian campaigns featured some of 
 the most intense onscreen battles.... british ones were more like' behing enemy lines' kind but 
 not to worry ull never fight alone. There r no dam n ship like levels frm cod 1 in uo.
  
  The gameplay was flawless in every aspect, cant complain about nething. The graphics generated by 
 the 'tweaked' quake 3 engine were pretty gorgeous. Though it doesnt change much frm cod 1 but it 
 definitely has a better feel to it especially th levels with snow covered terrains (my fav being 
 Foy) . The sound is as good as the original. The game has a couple of glitches here n there but they 
 dont hamper the experience much. The only downside to uo wud b its very short but each level is 
 longer than that of cod 1.
  
  United Offensive fails to do one thing and that is it fails to dissapoint. Not a single moment of 
 the game gets frustrating or boring for sure.
  
  The Battle of Bulge or The Battle of Kursk each is depicted with all monstrosity that wwII incorporated. The 
 game will throw ene, ies at you in no less than multiples of ten. Situations in the game r quite 
 defferent frm that in cod 1. UO definitely gives artillery fire a new meaning.
  
  UO in itself has the potential to stand up as a sequel to cod 1 rather than as an expansion pack.... this 
 is definitely one of the best PC exclusive titles out there.
  
  If any reading this still has the question lingering in his/her mind-medal of honor or call of 
 duty?... after this its pretty much darn clear that when it comes to world war n historic fps none 
 surpass the cod series...
  
  An ideal addition to any Action loving Gamers' Collection.: ) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: syorks1
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 1, 2007 7:45 pm PT
Review:  This expansion pack is very good. It gives u the same call of duty stuff u love and adds a few 
 new things. It is however an expansion pack and is very short. The story is great and u will recognize 
 a few of the characters from the last game in this one. There r more chase levels and a plane level 
 which r all pretty fun. Each campaign is good but the funnest is definitely the Russian campaign. 
 The last level is the hardest and craziest level in the game. It is worth the price and u need 
 to buy this especially if u liked the original. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: classic7
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 2, 2007 2:47 pm PT
Review:  The expansion pack for the Game of the Year , Call of Duty is easily doubted. It's just an expansion? 
 No it's not. Quality in an FPS expansion hasn't been seen since Half-Life Opposing Force. The single 
 player might not have been as epic but it sure felt like it to most, even the multi-player was 
 heightened, with the introduction of a few new weapons (of coarse) , the smoke nade, and the ability 
 to sprint, and prime nades made the multi-player almost too good. Heres the low-down.
  
  Gameplay- Besides being able to spring, the core game hasn't changed or even aged a bit, smart 
 move Gray Matter.
  
  Sound- As in the original the musical score was epic. I also saw a rise in the sound effects department.
 
  
  Tilt- With new campaign and increasingly good multi-player, this bad boy is gonna last.
  
  Reviewers Tilt- Easily my most played game since DoD, UO is gonna be in my collection forever. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: A1B2C3CAL
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 24, 2007 1:11 pm PT
Review:  This time the single-player campaign will take you through a variety of action packed missions, 
 from the Battle of the Bulge to a bout on board of a British bomber plane to the epic Battle of 
 Kursk.
  The epic sense of scope was extremely impressive in Call of Duty, and United Offensive even manages 
 to up the ante. From the very first mission in Bastogne, Belgium (the Battle of the Bulge) , you 
 are thrust into a huge battle against an insane amount of enemies. You begin the mission by hopping 
 on the back of a racing truck and manning a gun as Nazis fire at you from all sides, from caravans, 
 buildings and even tanks. After that, you take to your feet and finally get a full view of what 
 youre up against. Tanks, half-tracks and legions of Nazi soldiers pour over a hill in an effort 
 to break the Allies line and defeat you and your squadmates. You must get a hold of weaponry, 
 duck for cover in foxholes and destroy as many enemy units as you can. The Battle of the Bulge 
 mission is extremely intense and a single bad move could cost you your life.
  Following the American soldier campaign, youll switch perspectives and fight as a British soldier. 
 This mode starts you out on board of a bomber plane and requires you to shoot down German fighter 
 planes before they can return the favor to you and your squad. This stage does a fantastic job 
 of showcasing the new graphics implemented in the expansion. The billowing smoke and fire effects 
 in the stages are incredible, a noticeable step up from the original game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: doomwarrior235
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 20, 2007 11:13 pm PT
Review:  Call of Duty was an aw some game and if you haven't played it you should run out and buy it. If 
 you have played Call of Duty then you will love United Offensive. United Offensive adds a ton off 
 intense levels and some new weapons like a flame thrower. Some of the levels include gunning down 
 planes while you are in a plane and dropping bombs on towns. The sound is still sounds good and 
 like the first one it sounds like a real battle field.
  Call of Duty United offensive is a short game but it is only a expansion pack so it has about half 
 as many levels, But it still has great game play and intense battles. If you liked Call of Duty 
 then you will like United Offensive. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Percypoo
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 28, 2007 3:58 am PT
Review:  Now first of all I'd like to say this game doesn't score 8.0 with me. I'd score it like this...
 
  
  8.3
  
  Gameplay: 8
  Graphics:7
  Sound:9
  Value:8
  Tilt:9
  
  but as you may have noticed the rubbishy new rating system won't let me, anyway...
  
  The single 
 player here is not an 100% thrill ride top to bottom, but it definately has some unforgetable moments 
 and the odd few forgetable ones as well. The first 4 American missions in the classic Battle of 
 the Bulge setting start the game on a good note, with a nice chase scene that beats those of the 
 original COD, some dangerous battle charges, house to house and room to room fighting and wait. 
 This isn't just like all the other house to house battles from any run of the mill World War 2 
 shooter, It's better and more original. For example, in on mission you have to clear the Germans 
 out of all the house but your squad is attacked by an artilery barage and is forced to retreat 
 into the basement. It seems your cornered and there no way out but a member of your squad blows 
 through the wall and into the next house where you must press on and take over before you're overwhelmed 
 by incoming forces. It's fresh ideas such as this that has kept Call of Duty ahead of Medal of 
 Honor over the passing years. So then the final american mission is one of those missions where 
 you have to hold of swarms of infantry and tanks until relief arrives and it takes place in an 
 old chateau. This is your best chance to enjoy the new machine guns. Then just as things look like 
 there about to become boring the British missions start.
  
  You play as a gunner inside an RAF B17 Bomber and so begins the first COD plane mission. Now you 
 may remember the plane sequence in COD2 Big Red one, well this one is better. Allthough all your 
 really doing is shooting down planes it's really intense for a number of reasons. You have an entire 
 squadron of B17s with you plus spitfire fighter support. So you'll see loads of fighters and bombers 
 having dogfights and when the spitfires run out of fuel your on your own. That's when all the other 
 gunners die and after you drop your bombs the plane blows up before you can tell wether you hit 
 the target. On the next mission yoour hanging from a tree at night time and a bunch of Germans 
 come over but before they see you a great platoon of SAS troops shoot them down and you get down 
 and help them with a special mission in wich you plant charges on a viaduct and blow up a train 
 with a spectacualr explosion, then you and the commandos run through the woods to shake of the 
 German reinforcements and escape in a truck. The commandos appreaciate your skill as a commando 
 an you join the SAS. After this mission you notice a great improvment over COD. The British commando 
 missions on COD had you and 2 other soldiers fighting hordes of Germans to Sabotage the damn and 
 the ship. Even more ridiculously, you were the only one fighting them! Not in united offensive. 
 In the following commando mission, in which you destroy a german lighthouse and sabotage their 
 coastal guns, you also fight alongside a whole platoon, so the commando missions are bigger an 
 better. Also, you retreat from the German base on a Motorbike and have a lovely motorbike chase, 
 then when you get to the beach you have a lovely boat chase, the Brits have got all the vehicles! 
 In short, the British missions make a nice creamy middle for the campaign.
  
  Then it's the bit we've all been looking forward to. In the last five missions you play as a Russian 
 soldier. When i bought this gameI wondered if the Russian battles were as intense and amazing as 
 in COD. The answer is yes but just about. The first Russian mission is a hectic truck advance followed 
 by some trench battles in and It's one of the only 2 missions where you get the flamethrower so 
 use it well! Unfortunately the next 3 missions are a bit boring, especially the second if wich 
 wich is a tank battle, but It's the most crappy tank battle ever. Krusk, the biggest ever tank 
 battle ever, hardly. You have like 6 tanks and you just mouse over the odd few German ones and 
 click on them and they die how fun. Even on Veteran level it was easy! The original COD had a btter 
 tank battle and damn it, even the Medal of Honor Allied Assault tank battle was better. Fortunately 
 the final mission is way more fun and it ends with Call of Duty's first ever in-game cutscene and 
 It's a very rousing cutscene too.
  
  There you'll never get a better preview of the single player campaign than that. Now, the sounds 
 id great, the multiplayer, don't ask me my internet's
  buggered, that really just leaves the graphics. Well the Quake III Arena Engine has done well to 
 come this far but by 2004 it has really shown it's age. The graphics in CODUO do thier job well 
 but they have some really bad problems wich I'm suprised the Gamespot review Didn't mention. Namely, 
 their is to much clipping! Dead boddies clip into eachother and hands and guns clip through walls. 
 Why couldn't Gray matter do something about the aweful clipping. It's downright offensive, get 
 it. Also, the wall and ground textures look blocky up close. So i'm suprised that the graphics 
 scored 8 with gamespot when this game came out at about the same time as Medal of Honor Pacific 
 Assault and that game has better graphics but only scored 8. I reckon these graphics deserve 7 
 for their time because at least the water and fire looks great, in the second British mission theirs 
 some great facial animation, (why not on every mission?) and nice weather effects here and there 
 and MOHPA deserves 9, but It's not my place anyway.
  
  The game cost me &pound;4 on Amazon. That's like $2 so it's great value now, so if you have played 
 the great COD2 and COD give this game a try.
  
  There is a fine line between Call of Duty and Call of Duty 2 and this is it. This game is also 
 a grand finale for the days of the Quake III Arena Engine. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Homes225
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 24, 2007 10:51 pm PT
Review:  Story: France. WWII. Snow. Low Ammo. Own Nazis.
  
  Graphics: A little more polished than COD. Audio: Same as Original.
  
  Missions: Save your 
 lost patrols, HOLD THE LINE.
  
  Controls: Average FPS controls.
  
  Features: Intense battles, Realistic action gameplay, more missions.
  
  A. I.: Same as COD.
 
  
  Loading Times: Frequent but quick.
  
  Multiplayer: Fun especially with clans if you can get into it.
  
  Requirements: Low to Medium.
 
  
  Weapons: More weapons than COD such as portable Machine Guns and Bazookas.
  
  The Good: More COD action for a low price. The Bad: Could be more polished, get repeatitive at 
 times.
  
  The Ugly: War. What is it good for?
  
  Replay Ability: Medium.
  
  The Bottom Line: Buy this if you like the original Call of Duty. It's worth it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fbasque78
Rating: 9.1
Date: Aug 1, 2007 7:10 pm PT
Review:  United Offense's campaign expands on what the main game offered us. The graphic engine is pushed 
 to it's limits, each of the 13 missions are huge and offers amazing set pieces. The sound which 
 was already perfect in COD is on par with the original. Overall, United Offense is a more challenging 
 game but it's not frustrating since it retains the best auto-save feature system that COD had. 
 The length of this new campaign is about the same as the original game... which should keep you 
 entertained for 7 to 10 hrs on the normal difficulty. The gunfights and objectives are even more 
 intense this time around., you will have a blast! If you enjoyed COD, there's no reason why you 
 pass on this amazing expansion pack! I found it better than the original game!
  
  THE GOOD
  ----------------
  Offers a better campaign - Graphic engine being pushed to it's 
 limits - Huge action-packed levels - Same great auto-save feature - Challenging - Amazing sound, 
 just as loud as the the original.
  
  THE BAD
  ----------------
  Campaign is somewhat short - Some of the new guns are used sparingly
  
  THE VERDICT
  --------------------
 
  Go get the Call of duty Warchest package if you enjoy First-Person Shooters. Awesome games! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JackBurton
Rating: 9.2
Date: Aug 1, 2007 5:26 am PT
Review:  A single player veteran of the FPS genre, I was amazed to find an Expansion Pack that surpassed 
 the original game upon which it is based! (and roughly the same length too! NOT just a 5 or 6 hour 
 add-on)
  Simply put, just about every aspect of the original game's action and gamplay is amped-up a notch 
 (or 2) , and also improved upon. BIG Props to Gray Matter Studios (RTCW) for doing some fantastic 
 work crafting a follow-up (to another Developer's title) , and they obviously took this project 
 very seriously! (unlike what is usually the norm for most Ex-Pks)
  
  I'd assume just about all (PC) FPS'ers have already played COD 1 &amp; 2... but if you missed or 
 skipped purchasing this Expansion Pack, or are new to the Series, this game is a MUST PLAY! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BadSushi
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 30, 2007 6:27 am PT
Review:  Call of Duty: United Offensive is a World War II first person shooter that is an expansion for 
 the smash hit Call of Duty for the PC. The story does not follow previous characters in the first 
 game, but of course follows certain events that happened in WWII and place you in the seat of the 
 fore runner. As in like the first game you play on different sides of the war in the campaign. 
 You play on the British, Russian, and American sides (meaning pretty much just the Allies) as they 
 fight to remove the Axis influence in Europe. This game adds on to what made the first CoD so fun. 
 While it has the same thing that made the first game they a few new weapons, such as air-strikes 
 and smoke grenades. These are also implemented into the multiplayer element making multiplayer 
 much more crazy and needing more strategy then just running and gunning or spraying and praying. 
 In the campaign, said before you play on all sides of the Allies while fighting Axis forces. The 
 game stays close to it's old formula of gameplay which when it first came out was phenomenal. But 
 when gameplay is normally reused it feels old and worn out, but CoD: UO finds a way to recharge 
 the old style of play. The start it off with you a main soldier in the fight against Germany in 
 an airplane, which then enters a massive air fight. You must run your way around the tightly packed 
 plane running from gun to gun shooting down fighter pilots. The game unfolds from there and adds 
 on by going on to roof tops so you can see where certain points are to have air striked and then 
 by looking through you bionocluars one can easily blow up areas that need to be. As in most WWII 
 shooters the campaign is quick and fast paced, which leads the game to seem to short and end just 
 as quickly. But the CoD series is not known for its amazing campaign mode. The place where most 
 pepole find themselves after a while is in CoD: UO's multiplayer realm. The maps are large enough 
 to accomodate a large group of people while still leaving it open to explore, but no one in their 
 right mind would be exploring in full servers. One can choose amongst either an ally or axis side 
 to play on in multiple different game-types, such as Search and Destroy (a Counter Strike-esque 
 style of gameplay) where one side needs to blow up a ceratin area that the other side is defending. 
 There is also Headquarters, which is a king of the hill sort of gameplay and there is also the 
 normal Deathmatch Team Deathmatch and other styles of gameplay.
  
  The multiplayer games also have plenty of mods that also make the game new and fresh and when people 
 create their own maps it makes the game that much more exciting. When you get enough kills in some 
 servers one can actually gain a rank, which is a new feature in CoD: UO. When you gain ranks you 
 gain perks in your gameplay, such as more grenades or even the ability to air-strike. Air strike 
 can normally be used only once every round or once while your alive then it becomes reset. On maps 
 there are also the ability to ride in tanks and cars and the such. Which is needed for some of 
 the larger maps. The multiplayer keeps its same great feeling while adding new interesting things 
 that can make or break a person and their winning streak.
  
  The graphics and sound stay the same in the game from others, but that like most PC games can be 
 affected by mods if it really bothers the person playing the game. Smoke effects are still top 
 notch and when shell shocked it still gives that Saving Private Ryan feel. Overall if one was a 
 fan of CoD one should deffinetly think about buying this game and if one hasn't bough the game 
 or played it they can buy a Call of Duty Chest from local PC stores for a low price range of 40 
 to 50 dollars for CoD, CoD: UO, and I believe CoD2. Making this historic, historic FPS, even a better 
 buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: The_AI
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jun 25, 2007 7:36 am PT
Review:  Pros: New single-player campaign delivers huge scale battles and even more variety than before; 
 on rails missions don't feel stale or deriviative; adds vehicles, like jeeps and tanks, and some 
 new toys, like the bazooka, the machine guns, flamethrowers, etc. to an already great game; funny 
 voice acting and amazing weapon reports and explosion sounds; looks decent, despite running off 
 of the Quake III engine and the famerate never drops; amazing fire and explosion effects; multiplayer 
 is some of the best that you will ever find and the base assault mode ROCKS; and the list goes 
 on
  
  Cons: Graphics engine is long in the tooth; singleplayer is short; noticable lag on some servers; 
 can't play the singleplayer game without the CD in the drive, unlike the multiplayer; and I can't 
 find anything else
  
  Call of Duty: United Offensive is the expansion pack to 2003's wickedly incredible Call of Duty. 
 Call of Duty was an intense FPS set in World War II. It cast you as three different soldiers throughout 
 the course of the game; an American Paratrooper, a British SAS commando, and a Soviet soldier. 
 All of these were very fun, but the Russian side was particularly amazing because it's something 
 that few games have done, And when you were burned out on the singleplayer, the multiplayer was 
 there to provide hours of entertainment. Needless to say, Call of Duty was the best WWII shooter 
 ever made when it was released. And guess what? Call of Duty United Offensive doesn't just make 
 it a little better. It makes it alot better.
  
  Let's start with the Gameplay. Like the original game, United Offensive's singleplayer portion 
 casts you as three different soldiers, each from different allied armies. Once again, you are cast 
 as an American paratrooper under Captain Foley and Seargeant Moody, a British SAS commando, and 
 a Soviet soldier, but it shakes things up a bit. The battles in United Offensive are much bigger. 
 You'll fight in the Battle of the Bulge as the paratrooper, do a Guns of Navarrone type mission 
 as the SAS commando, and fight in Kursk as the Soviet soldier. There are also very, very cool missions, 
 such as a flying mission as the gunner in a British B-17, who later becomes the SAS commando. And 
 there are also several other on-rails missions. Before you say ONOZ , these missions don't hurt 
 the game, and are actually pretty fun.
  
  But what would Call of Duty be without its guns? And this time, there are several new weapons to 
 use and play around with. There are semi-automatic rifles for the Germans and Soviets, multishot 
 anti-tank weapons like the bazooka and the panzerschrek, flamethrowers (a cool weapon to see in 
 action) , satchel packs, which act like heavy, tankilling grenades, and heavy machine guns like 
 the 30 Calibur and the MG36 for the Americans and the Germans respectively. The machine guns are 
 cool in that they are very power and can take down many enemies, but you have to go prone or place 
 them in a window or something to use them, and they're probably the biggest addition to the game's 
 already impressive arsenal. Oh, and did I mention that there are now vehicles? Yup, there are now 
 vehicles. Regular tanks and jeeps for all sides and heavy tanks for the Russians and Germans. These 
 are all fantastic additions that really spice up the game in singleplayer and multiplayer.
  
  The singleplayer game is good and intense fun that shouldn't take you long to finish. When 
 you're done with that portion, there's the multiplayer side to United Offensive. The modes include 
 the standard Deathmatch, Team Deathmatch, and CTF modes, as well as the sweet Headquarters mode 
 from vanilla Call of Duty, but there is now a Battlefield 1942 style mode called domination and 
 what is probably the best WWII themed multiplayer mode ever=Base Assault. This mode has two teams 
 going at it and trying to destroy each other's bunkers. Destroying the other team's bunker is a 
 two part process-1. You have to destroy the walls of the bunker by attacking it with tanks and bazookas, 
 and 2. You have to enter the ruins, go downstairs, arm a bomb, and defend it until the time runs 
 out on the bomb and it explodes, destroying the bunker and most things near it. It's a very frantic 
 mode, especially when tanks and jeeps are included (don't play on the no tanks base assault servers) , 
 and is probably the best thing about the game.
  
  Now onto the sound. The voice acting is very good, and the script is pretty funny for the Americans. 
 But where the sound is best are the weapon reports, the vehicle sounds, and the explosions, which 
 just sound amazing. The Tommy gun has a good, loud bark, the machine guns sound great, and the 
 sound of artillery and tank shells exploding are amazing. Props to the development team on the 
 superb sound work.
  
  This brings us to the game's weakest link: the graphics. It still uses Call of Duty's graphics 
 engine, which is based off of the Quake III engine somewhere down the line, with no improvements. 
 There are no ragdoll physics; it's still just the same old death animations. But this is barely 
 worth mentioning since the game runs so well, and is just alot of fun to play.
  
  And finally, the value and my experience with the game. The singleplayer game may be a little short, 
 but the multiplayer will keep you coming back for seconds (and thirds, and fourths, and fifths...) 
 for a long time. You can still play this game... oh sorry, expansion for a time to come, though 
 it's been out for a long time. And what is my experience. I. Love. This. EXPANSION!!!!!! United 
 Offensive makes Call of Duty the best World War II shooter out there! Well, ladies and gentlemen, 
 Gray Matter has just made a near perfect game better. If you don't own Call of Duty or this game, 
 and you like FPSs, WHY DID YOU READ THIS REVIEW??!! GO OUT AND BUY THEM!!! If you own Call of Duty 
 but not United Offensive, hit yourself over the head with a baseball bat, and THEN run out and 
 buy it! If you own Call of Duty and United Offensive already, you're good. I like you. In closing, 
 this is one of the greatest expansion packs ever and ranks up with Rise of Nations: Thrones and 
 Patriots, AOE II: Conquerers, HL2: Opposing Force, and others as the best Expansions of all time. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kaaskwast
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 12, 2007 4:57 am PT
Review:  Warning, once you have played this add on you can never go back! The add on improves the gameplay 
 and adds a hole pack of new levels in the multiplayer. The single player isn't much news, just 
 some more typical call of duty shooting action. The multiplayer however really changes the playing 
 experiance. Many new levels, new weapons, and the ability to drive tanks and jeeps around in the 
 new levels. The aim has also been altered, no major changes to change the call of duty experiance. 
 But for example running shooting is allot harder then it is in the basic. Sprinting is now possible, 
 and allot more. If you like call of duty, you will love this expancion 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lilhawkkid182
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jun 10, 2007 6:21 am PT
Review:  Call of Duty United Offensive is the expansions pack to the original Call of Duty. Now first off 
 let me say that even if you have already played Call of Duty 2 this is a must have that fans and 
 owners of the original should most definitely check out. The American missions play as the famous 
 Battle of the Bulge with the 101st Airborne Division. Then hop in a plane and shoot down some Luftwaffe's 
 storm the coast of Italy with the British. Finally then join the battle for Kursk with the Russians. 
 First off lets talk about the US side of things. Like I said before the levels take place during 
 Battle of the Bulge which if you have seen Band of Brothers and have paid attention at least a 
 little in World History you should be pretty familiar with. Whether you are blowing up tanks or 
 storming through cities this is a fun campaign that was in my opinion a good way to start the game. 
 This is most likely my favorite of the three campaigns. Then there are the British missions. You 
 start out in a plane shooting down German aircraft above Holland. Then in a crash landing you are 
 separated from your teammates and join up with a local resistance force. Then once you are joined 
 up again with your teammates you make a stealthy invasion of Sicily as you get ready to invade 
 Italy. Like it seems in all the Call of Duty games I think that the British missions are the shortest 
 of all three campaigns. The third and final missions are the Russian missions. These missions take 
 place at the Battle of Kursk. This is a fun group of missions, as you will control tanks and do 
 regular ground missions, which are the hardest in the game. These levels will test what you learned 
 in the first Call of Duty and push them to the next level, expect to use the quick save and quick 
 load features a lot, because trust me you will need them. Overall the gameplay is pretty much the 
 same as the first one, but there are two things that I would like to talk about that were in the 
 original that were taken out, and I have no idea why. First of all, remember that helpful grenade 
 indicator that was in the first game, well for some reason it is gone, this really angered me. 
 Another thing that there was is that the AI randomly becomes Superman and can take hits to the 
 head, falls down and gets back up. As for things that were added to the game were the obviously 
 new single player, some new multiplayer maps new weapons, and vehicles. These are everything that 
 I would hope to see in an expansion pack to one my all time favorite games. The graphics are the 
 exact same as they were in Call of Duty, still though the explosions are something to look at and 
 even though this game doesn't look like Call of Duty 2 I must say that it still have a great sense 
 of realism. This game overall looks very good especially looking at it from the time that it came 
 out two years ago. The sound in this game is amazing; the music fits the game so well. The voice-overs 
 are great and so are the explosions, gunfire, and vehicle noises. There is no in-game chat for 
 multiplayer, but that is ok, that is not needed for a game to sound as good as this one. Now on 
 to the multiplayer. Let me just say that there is a reason why most of the time at Xfire. com all 
 three COD's multiplayer games are in the top ten most played. They are just one heck of a time. 
 This game is nothing different. The new maps, weapons, and ways to play just make the game even 
 longer in the sense that you are gonna want to go online and shoot up some people. Everyone has 
 their poison and I am willing to bet that you can find a game mode online that you will absolutely 
 love and never want to stop playing. Overall Call of Duty United Offensive on the PC is a game 
 that fans of the series must play. Who cares if you have already played the second Call of Duty, 
 I still think that it is worth going back and giving this game a try, I guarantee you will love 
 it. Despite the two most standing out errors of this game that I mentioned earlier this is one 
 good game to follow the great Call of Duty. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sytzepunk
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jun 9, 2007 2:03 pm PT
Review:  When I bought the double pack of CoD I saw laying around in my local game store, I grabbed it because 
 the singleplayer demo's were great, now I got to see the glory CoD was, and just to see its expansion 
 pack is just as good as it, or maybe even better.
  
  United Offensive is roughly just as long as CoD, ranging for about 8-10 hours of single player 
 action, and with a steady new multiplayer that offers vehicles to travel long distances, weapons 
 like flamethrowers and senty guns also take part of this expansion pack, the amount of new content 
 is great and this game is roughly one of the best expansion packs ever made.
  
  Gameplay:
  With the addition of the flamethrower and sentry gun and vehicles, you can't go wrong, 
 theres your ironsight for steady aiming and sniper rifles, so are the enemies AI and huge wars 
 you'll fight in, this game will also bring you to missions where you take part of 3 different soldiers, 
 all from a different country and with new weapons and envoriment, you'll have missions where you'll 
 mount a turret in a plane to blast down enemy plains, and a combat-boat to sheer thru water.
  
  Just like other CoD games, this game will let you spectate the war as one single unit while 
 there are hundreds of allies on the screen, all strafing for victory and yelling commands, the 
 CoD feeling is strong in this game.
  
  The game has its basic controls like CoD had, you if you want to go indepth about everything in 
 the game this game has to offer, you might want to check out my CoD review.
  
  Graphics:
  Stunning affects yet again, envoriments look great in big perspective, but still meh up close, 
 character models are smoothly animated, guns look great from normal view and to 3D ironsight, the 
 game offers alot of huge maps for both singleplayer and multiplayer.
  
  Sound:
  Perfect, just like by other CoD games, the sounds of weapons and screaming germans and allies are 
 realistic, explosions and bullits that bounce against wood and metal sound great, the games sound 
 is simply top-notch, especially in surround sound.
  
  Is it a good FPS:
  Great expansion pack, probably abit better then CoD, this game is just incredibly good and worth 
 the buy or download if you own CoD.
  
  (you might want to check out my CoD review, since I'll go in depth about everything in there.) 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Vampira506
Rating: 9
Date: May 21, 2007 4:58 pm PT
Review:  United Offensive, the expansion pack to Call of Duty, one of the great WWII shooters is quite simple 
 an excellent addition to the game and does what some expansion packs can't do, it expands, it expands 
 the story and the game play. The story itself starts nicely with the Battle of the Bulge in the 
 forests of Bastogne, which was something that us Band of Brothers fans were quite pleased with. 
 And of course the simple additions to gameplay with the LMGs, Sprinting and the flamethrower were 
 nice but not something that was needed (LMGs and Flamethrowers) . So if you own Call of Duty and 
 have finished the single player campaign until your eyes bled, I suggest you pick up this nice 
 expansion pack at a value price (It might be a few years old, but it's still oh so great) and if 
 you don't own the first Call of Duty then it can only mean one thing, You're a Commie, and Nobody 
 likes a Commie. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RedneckGamer87
Rating: 9.4
Date: Mar 1, 2007 7:54 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay: This is one amazing expantion, United Offensive follows a similar format to that found 
 in Call of Duty. Also again the people used cues again from great World War Two movies like Band 
 of Brothers. You play as three Allied soldiers -- an American paratrooper, a British SAS commando, 
 and a Soviet infantryman -- who are caught in the great struggle against Nazi Germany. Over the course 
 of the single-player campaign, you'll go from the frozen siege of Bastogne during the Battle of 
 the Bulge to the epic German counterattack at Kursk. Throughout most of the campaign, you'll participate 
 in huge, heavily scripted, set-piece battles that make the squad-based battles in Call of Duty 
 look downright minuscule in comparison. A good case in point involves Bastogne, which represents 
 the opening segment of the expansion. The expansion switches gears a bit for the British portion 
 of the campaign by starting you off as a gunner in a B-17 Flying Fortress that's on a bombing mission 
 over Germany. It's a visually stunning sequence, though you don't get to do much other than shoot 
 down waves of incoming Luftwaffe fighters. There are new weapons in the game like the German MG34, 
 American .30 Caliber machine gun and the Russian TVST Machine gun and each nation gets a flame 
 thrower and new guns like the M-1 Carbine and other that you would find that the army's used back 
 in World War Two like you would see in the movies.
  
  Graphics: The Graphics have improved in the expantion and gives a more cinimatic feel. Again you 
 will find that there are amazing explotions physics are pretty good like seeing the dirt fly up 
 when hit by bullets. Also the cut scenes are pretty amazing and feels like your watching a movie.
 
  
  Sound: Yet again the soundtrack is amazing and the sound effects for the game are mind blowing. 
 It really gets you on to the edge of your seat. Value: Again like the original Call of Duty after 
 playing though all the levels you can play the Multiplayer which is very addictive, but there are 
 some new multuplayer modes. The new multiplayer modes certainly feel influenced by the popular 
 Battlefield 1942, particularly with the addition of the vehicles. The domination mode is very much 
 like Battlefield 1942's conquest mode in that each team must take over a set of strategic points 
 on the map to win. Though it lacks the sheer variety of Battlefield 1942 in terms of settings and 
 vehicles, it still makes for a fun gameplay experience as your team has to use combined arms tactics 
 effectively in order to win.
  
  All in all this is an amzing expantion to have and is well worth the money and worthy of adding 
 to your game collection. I recommend this game whole heartedly. I give this game 9 out 10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DiabeticDood
Rating: 8.2
Date: Feb 23, 2007 2:49 pm PT
Review:  Call of Duty United Offensive is a great add on. Its the same game with a few new weapons and 
 new story. The story drew me in once again. Nothing like gameplay, sound, value, and my look on 
 the game really change. Just the multiplayer which adds vehicles on some maps and a few new modes 
 added like CTF and some more maps are added. So in closing Call of Duty United Offensive is a very 
 solid add on. I really enjoyed it. The sound in this game once again pulled off very well you hear 
 the war in the backround going on still. Within the first 20 minutes you know this game is gonna 
 be a great WW2 game. With the war that is going on crouching behind this. Getting into bunkers. 
 It's a two thumbs up game for sure! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zombieman666
Rating: 8.7
Date: Feb 22, 2007 2:33 pm PT
Review:  This expansion pack to the original call of duty is all in all a continuum to the pleasure and 
 excitement that call of duty offers. Really not much added graphically since the game keeps its 
 old but amazing graphics. on the other hand, there is much intensity and excitement added in this 
 expansion pack. The game play is very addictive as it's always been of course, but this time you'll 
 find yourself shooting more than ever, since Call of Duty united Offensive is a total in war action. 
 The atmosphere is always fantastic and alive. The only thing that gam*ve me hard time was the difficulty 
 of the game; it's a bit hard and unless you're extremely careful you're gonna get killed so often. 
 However, that would not not be a bad side of the game since a little challenge is always desired. 
 This game is what I might have been looking 4 after I played the first Call of Duty... it's a pack 
 of more excitement. one last thing... Call of Duty Expansion pack has a bad side that all call 
 of duty series are plagued with, and that's the small number of levels available in the single 
 player compaign, I wish they get rid of this bad habit of making such a great title that short. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Subcritical
Rating: 6.7
Date: Feb 11, 2007 4:16 pm PT
Review:  First off this is a very disappointing expansion pack. I purchased the Call fo Duty War Chest DVD 
 which includes Call of Duty, United Offensive and Call of Duty 2. I have not played Call of Duty 
 2 yet.
  
  After playing through the original game, which is excellent, I immediately fired up United Offensive 
 and noticed right away that it was like a completely different experience than Call of Duty. A 
 completely different experience in a very bad way. Not since Medal of Honor: Breakthrough has an 
 expansion been more disappointing.
  
  The graphics are about the only thing that is better than the original.
  
  The gameplay is 
 horrible and the design of the scripted events is annoying. Just about every mission makes you 
 perform a task that can only be achieved in the precise way the triggers demand. There certainly 
 is no open-endedness to be found here. I understand that objective need to be completed, but this 
 takes playing on rails to new heights. A general example of how badly this game is executed follows: 
 Just about in any level you have to perform an objective, if you elect to try to clear the field 
 of Nazi's so that you can perform your objective without getting killed, the game just keeps spawning 
 endless bad guys until you run out of ammo and get killed. It is a spawnfest. Call of Duty was 
 not like this at all.
  
  Another disappointing gameplay tactic by the developer is how if you enter a room, the enemy more 
 often than not pin points you immediately and fires right at you. The enemy AI is also incredibly 
 accurate from great distances. Whereas you need to have a scoped rifle, the Nazi's can pick you 
 off 2/3rds a mile away with their MP40's. And they just keep pouring out of their spawn points 
 in buildings, or behind buildings until you complete the objective.
  
  Overall the gameplay is a painful event. There are way too many scripted vehicle levels that lock 
 you into disappointing gameplay, too much spawning, and to much Riley (your characters name) , get 
 this and do that. Riley, cover me so that I can get to that wounded guy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: billjacksonn
Rating: 9.7
Date: Feb 9, 2007 10:28 am PT
Review:  Call of Duty is an outstanding game in its own right, but this expansion pack meets or exceeds 
 the quality of CoD.
  
  The graphics have been improved in some places, although the running/crouching animations of NPCs 
 look strange. Fire, smoke, sun and skyboxes are of the highest caliber.
  
  The level designs are high quality, with great variation between levels. Night, day, twilight scenes 
 intersperse with both stealth and high action sequences. This is truly a cinematic action experience 
 that is not to be missed. If you are into WW2 games, you cannot afford to miss this one. I recommend 
 this highly. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chandu83
Rating: 9.4
Date: Apr 3, 2007 10:40 am PT
Review:  Having recently finished Call of Duty, I was still hungry for more World War 2 action; actually, 
 I was hungrier for more Call of Duty action, so my natural choice was to play Call of Duty United 
 Offensive.
  
  Before I started playing the game, I have not read a single review and I have no idea what the 
 gaming world thinks about this expansion, so my opinion is completely my own, solely based on my 
 gaming experience. And what an experience it was!
  
  I loved this expansion, even more than the original. This game is brilliant. Make no mistake about 
 that, I have not played expansions for any game till now, but in my opinion this is how they should 
 be. The game is not too long mind you; I finished it in about 4 days of casual playing in Normal 
 difficulty mode, so all you veterans out there shouldnt take more than a couple days to get through 
 with this. Having said that, the game is not too short eitherI mean it finds the perfect balance.
 
  
  First let me talk about the graphics. They are better than the original, with a heavily tweaked 
 Quake 3 engine; explosions look superb with great particle effects. The environments and water 
 look stunning and capture the true essence of battle in Europe. There were a few framerate issues 
 though, but they are only few and far in between to affect the gameplay. I played the game on P4 
 3.0GHz, 1.75GB RAM running at 400MHz and a GeForce 7600GS with a Creative SoundBlaster Audigy Soundcard 
 with all settings in maximum at 1280x1024 resolution throughout. Except for those few occasions, 
 the game worked flawlessly.
  
  The sounds set the mood of the game, with battle cries and occasional orchestra music. There is 
 a sound issue when using my Creative soundcard, so I had to switch to Miles 2D audio. There was 
 a lot of crackling and static at times when I was using Creative hardware drivers to play the game. 
 Sometimes restarting the game helped the problem, but eventually I got tired and changed the audio 
 drivers to default and everything worked fine.
  
  The environments are varied, and like in the first game, you get to be a gunner on a variety of 
 vehicles like truck, plane etc. I particularly loved the Sicily level where you get to be a gunner 
 on the sidecar of a motorcycle and the driver navigates through the streets at breakneck speed. 
 Very exciting!
  
  The game basically keeps you hooked until the very end, just like the original. There are no stupid 
 side quests, and silly missions, you get a feel of being part of something very important, most 
 of the time you are asked to demolish something or the other, and its always fun to watch your 
 hard work paying off at the end with sweet sight of everything exploding and falling to pieces.
 
  
  Now, do I even need to say that if you havent played it TILL now, you need to play right away??? 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ak_samurai
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jan 2, 2007 6:04 am PT
Review:  CALL OF DUTY: UNITED OFFENSIVE is delivering more action than before. Once again looking through 
 the eyes of American, British and Russian soldiers, this game thrusts player alongside their squadmates 
 into more authentic action across Europe's most historic battlefields. The graphics are superb and 
 so is the gameplay. I am truly a BIG fan of this game. It was nice 2 see Capt. Foley in action again 
 but what about Maj. Price ? Where has he gone? It was great to experience so many different environments 
 and checking a hell lot of new weapons and vehicles. This time Activision done a great job and really 
 impressed us by their new short movie clip and the end of each stage. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: snarekick
Rating: 9.7
Date: Dec 26, 2006 11:36 am PT
Review:  The Good: A perfect game that's even better; Amazing sound; Once again, strong gameplay; Different 
 variaties of gameplay; Still quite long; Uses same style as the first; More intense; Addictive 
 from start to finish; Lots of uses for machine guns; Fighting on land, sea and sky; Physics are 
 better.
  
  The Bad: Graphics are a bit better but, not to a great extent.
  
  Holy @#$%*!. Sorry about that, but I just had to show how awsome this game is in some way. Call 
 of Duty: United Offensive, is amazing. Until Call of Duty 2, I have never played such a great World 
 War 2 shooter. There's so much to do in this game. Plant explosives on turrents. Shoot down airplanes..... 
 in airplanes. Drive in tanks and run over Germans. Man a machine gun on a speeding truck, with 
 explosions all around you, trees falling down. And the most fun, charging into enemy territory, 
 your fellow Russian men, shot to their deaths, planes plummeting to the burning ground. What I'm 
 trying to say is, this game has it all.
  
  Everything from Call of Duty, is in this game, but even better. The sound and gameplay is beyond 
 perfection and physics have improved. (Except when you're in a tank) . If you could past United 
 Offensive in grade, you would have to have realistic graphics. Otherwise, you'd be tied. This game, 
 I thought, didn't get enough marketing to get people buying. In fact, my friends and I, didn't 
 even know it existed until we saw it at the store. It proves that many people didn't know it existed, 
 except those who use the Internet alot, which I don't. Once again, the British campaign is pure 
 fun. It was a blast flying in a bomber, shooting down enemy planes with machine guns. And then, 
 driving on a boat, launching bullets at other boats, and of course, speeding through the town in 
 a motor-cycle.
  
  The American campaign was about the same intensity as the Russian campaign in the first Call of 
 Duty, which is pretty good. Fighting in the snow covered land, which is The Battle Of The Bulge, 
 is like British fun, cross Russian intensity. A perfect blend.
  
  Once again though, the Russian campaign is the best and most intense. In the beginning, you're 
 in a truck on the path to the battlefield. Planes shoot at you. Buildings and trucks blow up. It 
 never gets old. The only bad thing about the Russian campaign, is that Russians don't actually 
 speak Russian. You'll never get bored of their spirit.
  
  New weapons are also introduced in the British campaign, which adds to the gameplay, which is as 
 smooth as ever. This time in the game, the physics are a little more realistic. When you're in 
 a tank though, nothing really can go down. Not even some trees. Where's the fun in that?
  
  The graphics have also improved in texture and detail. I noticed while playing the game, that uniforms 
 had shown roughness and dirt. Same on the mens faces. It appears that some men had noticeable facial 
 hair. The backgrounds were better as well.
  
  United Offensive is superb. An expansion pack that really works. It's a mix of Battlefield and 
 Medal of Honor. If you don't believe what I say, play it. Because you will not regret it. You can't 
 argue with a masterpiece. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mikey009
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 25, 2006 6:38 pm PT
Review:  perfect and great in a clan that has cod uo adn loves ti we run several servers thee best game 
 there is for wwII frist person shooters for online multi player. better than cod 2 for online play. 
 Bas and S&amp; d are awsome but a good objectiove emode would be cool where you had to do things 
 in a certian order and one side would attack the objectives and the other would try to defend them. 
 perfect perfect perfect perfect perfect perfect perfect perfect perfect perfect perfect perfect 
 perfect perfect perfect perfect perfect perfect perfect perfect perfect perfect perfect perfect 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: macpop
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 8, 2006 6:22 pm PT
Review:  this is game is awsome the single player ingulps u into a battle field and its so much fun as u 
 see arti surrounding u and u just tryin to kill the jerrys and i love the way it goes from one 
 campaign to another when u finish the superb single its time to test ur aiming in the multi the 
 multi features alot of nice gameplay options from deathmath to base assualt and the multi is worth 
 twice for i payd for it im currrnetly in love with this game, the game looks superb with AAx8 and 
 AFx16 forced within the nvidia console and it gives a whole new look to the game, this game offers 
 alot to the pc, as i said the multi has everything u can wish in a ww2 shooter, varitety, vehicles 
 to choose from, and rankings which are nice, and i love when u get full ranks and u get arti and 
 just watch ur arti pwn the opposition and the kills start pouring in, so wat are u waiting for 
 get this game the single is awsome and shows wats to be expected from future cod titles but cod2 
 wasnt one of them, just hope the cod2 expansion is as good as this one 10/10 stars good joob infinity 
 ward 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DREU66
Rating: 9.1
Date: Nov 21, 2006 1:12 am PT
Review:  Call of Duty: United Offensive es una m&aacute; s que buena expansi&oacute; n de un gran juego como 
 es Call of Duty. Siguiendo la l&iacute; nea del juego original sin innovar demasiado no decepcionan 
 en absoluto. Las misiones con los distintos personajes mantienen la l&iacute; nea de lo ya visto 
 en Call of Duty y siguen siendo abasolutamente inmersivas. A mi me impresion&oacute; especialmente 
 el contrataque de los alemanes en las Ardenas en la que tienes que defender tus posiciones de decenas 
 de soldados alemanes y de blindados luchando cuerpo a cuerpo con ellos. Sin duda mantiene y prolonga 
 la experiencia del juego original sin perder un &aacute; pice de emoci&oacute; n.
  
  Spend your money. The game is absolutely inmersive. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JOE714
Rating: 9.6
Date: Oct 23, 2006 1:01 pm PT
Review:  I didnt want to write a review just to say if you liked the first Call of Duty, then the expansion 
 is more of the same great stuff, but there it is. Though the statement is true and is a valid 
 enough reason to drop $20 (or less, by now) on a proven product like CoD, but theres a bit more 
 to United Offensive than just additional missions on the same game engine. Most of the new levels 
 are massive, chock full of activity on all sides, and with a degree of difficulty that suggests 
 that the missions in the first installment were a warm-up for some heavy-duty lead slinging.
  
  UO starts out with some fairly typical missions in the wintry forests of Belgium, with several 
 advances from cover to cover and unevenly-matched line defenses similar to the Ardennes levels 
 in Medal of Honor: Spearhead. As I mentioned, there is activity everywhere in the Bastogne, Foy, 
 and Noville scenarios, so much so that I was often tempted to just sit back and let the carnage 
 play out. The games friendly AI characters are still smart enough to hold their own for a while, 
 although each areas objectives are designed to require a lot of input from the player to take 
 out specific targets or protect important NPCs.
  
  Once the American GIs have their turn, the games focus shifts to a member of the Royal Air Force, 
 beginning with a unique level that is still one of my favorite war shooter scenarios to date. Just 
 as earlier MoH and CoD set pieces were inspired by such blockbusters as Saving Private Ryan and 
 Enemy at the Gates, the player spends some heated and highly entertaining moments in the fuselage 
 of a heavy bomber &agrave; la the excellent 1990 film Memphis Belle. The folks at Gray Matter expand 
 the level beyond a stationary turret shooter by requiring the player to hustle from station to 
 station, putting out fires and covering for fallen cabin-mates. As a number of wingmen fall prey 
 to all sorts of airborne disasters and the players own plane is shredded until its holding together 
 only at the seams, the level admirably reproduces the claustrophobia and fatalism that Im sure 
 many bomber pilots and crew felt as they desperately held a dangerous course through hostile airspace 
 to an important target.
  
  Finally, the Soviets are back, and the re-introduction to their campaign is just as loud and terrifying 
 as it was with the Volga River crossing in part one. History proves that the clashes between Germany 
 and Russia on the eastern front were just plain vicious, and the heat of the two armies hatred 
 for each other is expertly captured in UO. The games engine once again shines at its capacity 
 to render several scripted peripheral events -- such as aerial dogfights that end with an explosive 
 landing right at the players feet  that tend to draw the eye in awe away from the main battle.
 
  
  Although many of Call of Dutys primary checkpoints and cues remain unchanged in each scenario, 
 the particulars of each event never play out in the same way twice. As a result, the game and its 
 expansion pack contain imaginative levels that rarely devolve into rote running-and-gunning. Players 
 who developed a knack for sticking to cover and working as a team during CoDs first installment 
 will have those skills put to the test in the mean streets of Karkhov and the fortified cliffs 
 of Capo Murro di Porco. Every few levels, a bomber or tank ride further eliminates any chance of 
 monotony and, in addition, elevates United Offensive to much more than just a series of B-side 
 levels left over from the original. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Saw100
Rating: 8.6
Date: Oct 18, 2006 1:19 am PT
Review:  United Offensive is a great game woth battle system never seen before, excellent graphics and great 
 sound. Multiplayer is the best thing in the whole game, because you can play it quite long without 
 of getting tired of it. But still... it's just not same as CoD. New maps suck, you must run thousands 
 of kilometres to fiind one enemy in new maps. You can get tired of game very quickly unlike original 
 CoD. It's basically just not-as-good-as-I-expected- expansion pack. Really not as good as original 
 CoD.
  
  United Offensive isn not as superb as original CoD, but it's still great. You should probably buy 
 it if you loved CoD. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gamerman0203
Rating: 6
Date: Sep 15, 2006 12:33 pm PT
Review:  I was so excited to play this that I went home and loaded it right away. Unfortunatley I had to 
 wait until the next night. Upon first load it was the same and I was geeked! I then started playing 
 and realized that being a different developer really does matter. They Grey Matter tried to capture 
 what IW did in the original, but fell short. The sound is ok, but not NEARLY as good as it was. 
 Also the difficulty is a little off. I put it on regular and I have died more times than I can 
 count. There is no mercy with the AI. They lock on and shoot until your dead. That is the way REAL 
 war is, not a video game. Then the glitches are starting to get annoying. A german troop appeared 
 right in front of me and shot me until I was dead because I was moving faster than the game had 
 intended. It is still a fun game, don't get me wrong, but it isn't a Call of Duty by my standards. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rossdeboss
Rating: 9.2
Date: Aug 28, 2006 4:33 am PT
Review:  I havent got much news but, I know how choose whatever team you want on call of duty uo, I discovered 
 it myself, It was already used by lots of people a simple way to cheat.
  
  here it is..
  
  When you have connected to a server you are a spectator...
  First go to the Choose team, 
 you can see,
  1. eg Russian
  2. German
  3. Auto Assign
  4. Spectate
  
  When you press tab it might come up like this 99
  German 8 Score Deaths
  Soldier 21 8
  Soldier2 
 19 6
  Soldier3 17 7
  Soldier4 16 12
  Soldier5 14 6
  Soldier6 12 9
  Soldier7 11 11
  Soldier8 9 10 69
  Russian 7 Score Deaths
  And so on and so on
  
  If you want to get on 
 german go to choose team click 1 for russian then.. Dont Choose Your Gun!! go back to choose team 
 click on german, this should work
  (Although it is quite hard to explain)
  Email me at rosstheboss@hotmail. co. uk
  if anything goes wrong
  
  cheers bye:) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sam_2006
Rating: 8.7
Date: Aug 23, 2006 11:08 am PT
Review:  This expansion pack to the original call of duty is all in all a continuum to the pleasure and 
 excitement that call of duty offers. Really not much added graphically since the game keeps its 
 old but amazing graphics. on the other hand, there is much intensity and excitement added in this 
 expansion pack. The game play is very addictive as it's always been of course, but this time you'll 
 find yourself shooting more than ever, since Call of Duty united Offensive is a total in war action. 
 The atmosphere is always fantastic and alive. The only thing that gam*ve me hard time was the difficulty 
 of the game; it's a bit hard and unless you're extremely careful you're gonna get killed so often. 
 However, that would not not be a bad side of the game since a little challenge is always desired. 
 This game is what I might have been looking 4 after I played the first Call of Duty... it's a pack 
 of more excitement. one last thing... Call of Duty Expansion pack has a bad side that all call 
 of duty series are plagued with, and that's the small number of levels available in the single 
 player compaign, I wish they get rid of this bad habit of making such a great title that short. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jacobg8857
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 21, 2006 5:17 pm PT
Review:  I been playing this sent it came out and i am still playing this. I think it get better when you 
 play online with other people and there mods new maps it all nice. There some new stuff here like 
 jeeps, tanks. But there alot more guns then the 1st one Call of Duty you get bazooka and the powerful 
 flame thrower but i am not going to tell you the rest you got to get the game. If you got the 1st 
 one then this is a must have. So what are you still doing here go out there and get it so i can 
 use my B. A. R on you lol. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jellix
Rating: 8.8
Date: Aug 10, 2006 6:51 am PT
Review:  -Call of duty : united offensive-
  
  -Gameplay : The gameplay that i was used in call of duty returned in this game. But the biggest 
 new factor is the action has been doubled. Which makes the game more intense and nicer to play. 
 Also nice is you have a same lenght of gameplay.
  
  9/10
  
  -Graphics : Like in most expansions are the same as the first game.
  
  8/10
  
  -Sound : 
 Can't stop loving the beautiful sound of call of duty. If your playing with a headset you think 
 your in real war.
  
  9/10
  
  -Value : It's not a long game but still i like to play it a million times.
  
  9/10
  
  -Reviewer's 
 Tilt : I just love the call of duty franchise.
  
  + : More intense, as long as first game, addictive
  - : no idea.
  
  Conclusion : this game 
 just owns!!!
  
  Points : 8.9 
::::::

::::::
UserName: strategyking92
Rating: 8.7
Date: Aug 4, 2006 6:16 pm PT
Review:  This is an expansion ,outshadowed by the console versions of cod which are better known.
  The three perpectives are equally measured, british commandos invading sicily, americans holding 
 back the jerries at the battle of the bulge, and finally the russian tank battle of kursk.
  The controls are solid (as if they couldnt be) and if you are unfamiliar with it or prefer a different 
 setup you can customize them yourself.
  The graphics are good (for this time) with smoke effects just as good as the tactics youll use 
 (or die) , in short terms its good for the game.
  Direction is awesome, the best in game cinematics youll ever see, the exploding tanks, tank battles 
 in the background, and the artillary fire covering youre flanks....
  
  First impressions: at first youll feel uncomfortable playing these missions as theyre a little 
 different (different developer) , but it grows on you in a good way as youll find you really get 
 into the action.... 
  And once you beat the single player mode you can play the spectacular multiplayer modes (up to 
 64 people!)
  
  Now this is what WW2 is all about. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ttime32
Rating: 9.6
Date: Dec 25, 2006 10:34 am PT
Review:  The original Call of Duty was the first PC game that I had ever purchased and one of the games 
 that I enjoyed most. So when the expansion pack came out, I picked it up right away. Right from 
 the start, I thought that it was better than the original. With more weapons, better graphics, 
 the same amazing sound effects, more multiplayer maps, and vehicles to top it all off. The multiplayer 
 experience is where this game really shines though. There is nothing more exciting than playing 
 a 16 vs 16 Capture the Flag match with all of your buddies on a massive map. This is one of my 
 favorite games of all time and I'm sure that the rest of you will enjoy it too. Just make sure 
 that you have the original Call of Duty, because you need the original to be able to install this 
 one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FUBAR24
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jul 4, 2006 7:01 am PT
Review:  Folks if your're a big WW2 buff and have the first Call Of Duty game this is an expantion pack 
 you must get. Aside from 11 new single player missions that take you from the Battle of the Bulge 
 to Ponryi the multiplayer is probably the most improved. Several new maps and the biggest adition, 
 driveable vehicles, yes thats right folks you can now drive shermans, panzers, jeeps, and if your 
 in the right server you can even fly planes and drive motorcycles. To combat the new vehicles Activision 
 and Grey Matter has added the Bazooka and Panzerschrek. Like the smaller panzerfaust these are 
 both anti-tank weapons but unlike the dinky panzerfaust these are reusable. Spend one rocket and 
 no need to find another bazooka. Just load in another rocket. Another new weapon is the flame thrower 
 but online its hard to find a server that uses them because of their noobish ways. Its basicly 
 the PPsH but instead of shooting bullets its a wall of fire.
  
  The mod community is also great. i am a member of a UO Clan that uses a mod called the Merciless 
 mod and let me tell you its great. It brings the class system of battlefield to Call of Duty. Choose 
 from Infantry, Medic, Sniper, Support Gunner, Combat Engineer, and Anti-Tank. The coolest feature 
 is for the engineer there is a new weapon which is more modern (except in the case of Americans) . 
 For the british combat engineers get an Uzi, For Germans combat engineers get a Heckler and Koch 
 MP5, for the Russians combat engineers get AK-47s, and for the Americans combat engineers get a 
 grease gun which was a real weapon at the time of WW2 which uses the same bullets as a Thompson 
 but has a slower rate of fire making it more accurate. Another cool feature is for the Support 
 Gunners instead of getting a satchel or gas grenade they get a Moltov Cocktail for Allies and Mustard 
 Gas for Axis.
  
  If you own Call of Duty and are getting bored of the originals online play get United Offencive 
 and check out the Merciless Mod 
::::::

::::::
UserName: just4pool93
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 30, 2006 8:06 pm PT
Review:  Call of Duty: United Offensive is possibly one of the best games of all time. It takes Call of 
 Duty Action to a whole new level. I think anyone with a brain can realize that this is a must have 
 for Call of Duty players. This game and Call of Duty actually beat Call of Duty 2 for the PC and 
 Xbox 360. This game is such a blast you can barely stop playing. I think that this game is best 
 when it comes to WWII. Any Call of Duty game blows the Medal of Honor franchise out of the water. 
 Worth a purchase since you can buy this for only $10. I recommend buying the Call of Duty Deluxe 
 Edition package for $30. It comes with a strategy guide for United Offensive and Call of Duty. 
 It also comes with the Call of Duty soundtrack, Call of Duty, and Call of Duty: United Offensive. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xxxgangsta
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 21, 2006 1:48 am PT
Review:  First when i started to play this game i thought that it would be like call of duty 2 or 1 , but 
 this was for me realy harder to play ,missions were more difficult and the game was longer , i 
 played it longer than call of duty 2 , the missions were wery interesting i liked shooting from 
 a plane or a ship and a tank , but graphicks ,game play was the same like in call of duty , but 
 i gues it was much better that first part or second ... Shooting was the same like in all parts 
 , well maybe the hardest part was playing in the beggining ,later the missions got more esier , 
 but you must try this game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kixgirl
Rating: 7.8
Date: Jun 18, 2006 2:46 am PT
Review:  It's true, COD is the best. Not only the single mode is great, the multiplayer mode is even better!
 
  The thin is that COD is for every gamer. It can be played (very) easy and also (very) hard (and 
 very difficult!) . You see the most intense moments from WO II. Very nice!
  The graphics and so are very fine, the tactics that you team has is a bit less... You have to do 
 everything on you one. On the other hand, that can be fun!
  2 things that are not so well:
  * I have played the single mode in 5 hours. So it will not keep you busy for long...
  (but than 
 you can explore the multiplayer games which are so fun!)
  * In the multiplayer games it's so easy to cheat. If you really want to play honest its not so 
 much fun. But there are lots of servers so you just have to find a good one...
  So if you want to get a new game, COD is a very good advice! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dum_dum_626364
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jun 11, 2006 3:04 pm PT
Review:  Call of Duty: United Offensive is essentially the same game as the original CoD, but with updated 
 graphics and a few more multiplayer maps and modes. I'm not going to go too deep into the gameplay 
 as I already did in my recent review of the original Call of Duty, but here are the things new 
 to Call of Duty fans found in CoD: UO:
  
  The single player campaign of United Offensive is pretty much just an extension of the original 
 Call of Duty. In each mission, you once again are playing through the greatest battles of the second 
 World War as a soldier from one of the Allied Nations (American, British or Russian soldier) . One 
 mission for example, will pit you and a few fellow British SAS troops out to recover important 
 documents from a German stronghold deep behind enemy lines. After each mission, you are briefed 
 for your next one and you play through most of the game in this way. This portion of CoD: UO is 
 pretty entertaining, but seeing as if you are used to playing online against real people even the 
 hardest difficulty setting should be a breeze. 
  
  The only thing different about this campaign is that you get a chance to control a number of different 
 vehicles throughout the games missions. The campaign also feels relatively short compared to that 
 of the original Call of Duty. Fortunately though, the trademark feeling that you are never alone 
 while you are fighting through the seemingly unstoppable German force makes up for that.
  
  The vehicles are also available in specific multiplayer maps. Along with the vehicles, there are 
 also a number of new weapons and multiplayer modes to choose from this time around. With all of 
 this new content it feels almost like an entire game by itself, instead of an expansion pack. Aside 
 from all of that, the Activision developers also managed to keep almost all hackers out of the 
 United Offensive multiplayer servers.
  
  Closing Comments:
  
  With all of the new and welcome additions to the original Call of Duty, it is still hard to recommend 
 if you don't already own CoD. On the other hand, if you have the money to spare, you should definitely 
 get the original Call of Duty as well as the United Offensive expansion pack.
  
  Gameplay: 10/10
  Advanced AI no longer make the game feel like a shooting gallery and the vehicles 
 make for some good variety.
  
  Graphics: 10/10
  Top notch graphics help the game feel much more immersive than the original.
  
  Sound: 10/10
 
  Even better than the original Call of Duty.
  
  Value: 8/10
  This expansion is still drowned in a sea of other WWII themed first-person shooters.
  
  Lasting 
 Appeal: 8/10
  With the added multiplayer modes, this game will keep you going for quite a while longer. The single 
 player campaign is quite short though.
  
  Overall: 9.1/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: delta01138
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 9, 2006 4:25 pm PT
Review:  Cod: UO u is basically another CoD1 exceptit takes place in Battle of the Bulge, a commando raid 
 on Sicily, and the Battle of Kursk , the greatest tank battle of all time. It is a little short 
 though, and is sorta challenging (harder than CoD1 by a longshot) . This has pretty much the same 
 graphics, sound, and storyline. Did I mention it has NEW WEAPONS?! The new Gewher 43 is used along 
 with the 30. cal, silenced Sten, Webly Mk. 4. TT33, Degtyarev -Phekhotny 28, Flammenwerfer 35, 
 Bazooka, Tokarev SVT-40, Macinegewehr 34, and Panzerchek. Also in MP, you can have artillery binoculars 
 which can call artillery strikes, satchel charges which are bags filled with dynamite, and smoke 
 grenades which are well, grenades that spill smoke. The battles are very satisfiying and my personal 
 favorite was the Battle of the Bulge (hectic; just like politics) . There are also new Multi player 
 matches including Base Assault which is where there are 3 bases on the map, you need to bust it 
 open with heavy fire (tanks are included in all of the BA maps! WhOoT!) then go in and plant charges. 
 The team who destroys the other teams bases win! (also like politics) . This game is basically a 
 bigger, badder, and better version of CoD1. 2 thumbs up!
  
  Your Friend,
  
  Delta 01138 
::::::

::::::
UserName: syorks
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 5, 2006 2:00 pm PT
Review:  This expansion pack is very good. It gives u the same call of duty stuff u love and adds a few 
 new things. It is however an expansion pack and is very short. The story is great and u will recognize 
 a few of the characters from the last game in this one. There r more chase levels and a plane level 
 which r all pretty fun. Each campaign is good but the funnest is definitely the Russian campaign. 
 The last level is the hardest and craziest level in the game. It is worth the price and u need 
 to buy this especially if u liked the original. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cpo335
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jun 5, 2006 1:40 pm PT
Review:  When you first jump into this game, you will know right away that you love it. It starts out with 
 a jeep ride through the Ardennes to being a bomber in a B-17. The graphics on this are great but 
 could be upgraded. The gameplay on this is incredible, especially the mutliplayer. The singleplayer 
 has three different campaigns, just like the first and second one. First you fight alongside the 
 Russian army taking back what they lost on the Eastern front. Then you travel to the other side 
 of the continent and fight along with the British. There you will b a bomber pilot shooting down 
 the Luftwaffe and blowing up a major bridge as a locomotive drives on it. Then the last campign 
 is the Americans, here you will fight in the Battle of the Bulge as you take over Foy, Noville 
 and a raid through the forest. The multiplayer is better than than the singleplayer because of 
 the replayablility and the new things you will encounter. You can find servers with tons of people 
 in them. Choose from over 10 different weapons and fight with the Nazis, Americans, British, and 
 Russians. Overall I think that this game is great and that everyone who enjoys WWII fpses should 
 give this a try. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: meweus
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 4, 2006 8:16 am PT
Review:  this game is sweet!!!! 
  single player for start is very fun. A. I. is a tad smarter, and the battles are VERY intence. The 
 only problem with single player with un is the responing enemys. THIS WILL BE VERY ANYOYING!!!! 
 Thay will just keep coming and coming and coming until, u get to a certain point to trigger them 
 to stop. 
  
  codun multiplayer is fun but i think cod multi is a little funner. cod isnt made for tanks, tank 
 camping will be a problem some times. just go to a no tank server .
  got a **** load of new toys and fun modes. Base assult is my favorit. ITS VERY FUN!!!!!! 
  
 
  sound is very good. very releastic!!!!!!! 
  Grafics are a tad better. there some more detail now, more textaure. 
  
  U WILL PLAY THE **** 
 OUT OF THIS GAMWE!!!!! so u know the value is good. 
  
  some cod fans may not like this game but i do!!!! if u like cod get this game!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mr_nyuckles
Rating: 9.2
Date: May 30, 2006 4:01 pm PT
Review:  Want to kill some Krauts? Some Jerries? Look no further. This game is a great FPS WWII game. Now 
 if they could only make a WWI game as this one, we'd be set.
  
  Graphics- Great. I really liked the realism of the graphics. From the reloading and the guns, to 
 the tanks and AA guns. Very nice.
  
  Sounds- Good. Creates a great mood for you as you work your way around the single player matches. 
 Hearing fighting around you really puts you 'in the thick of it.' Also the sounds of the guns are 
 pretty good, so good in fact you can tell which gun is being fired just by the sound. Good stuff.
 
  
  Playability and Replayabilty- You are just your normal gruns sloging through World War II, trying 
 to get out of it alive. You find weapons, shoot the Krauts, and disable their different hell raising 
 machines. The controls are your usual FPS controls, and they can be changed. Very good.
  
  Replayability- Very good. Especially for the muti-player, having different types of games, and 
 different maps with different conditions and having to have different types of strats to play them. 
 Very well done. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AcydRaine
Rating: 9.3
Date: May 5, 2006 9:52 am PT
Review:  Last year marked the emergence of one of the best squad-based, first person WWII shooters on the 
 PC, Call of Duty. The title boasted gritty, realistic graphics, adrenaline-pumping locales, and 
 some of the most memorable scripted-action sequences of any game in its genre. Based on Call of 
 Duty's success and the vast scope of the war it covers, it seemed inevitable that Activision would 
 bank on an expansion pack, bringing players new and more exciting scenarios, weapons, and game 
 modes. Heeding the call, Grey Matter Studios (the team that designed Return to Castle Wolfenstein) 
 has developed the add-on named United Offensive, returning gamers to battle by land, sea, and air.
 
  United Offensive is an expansion pack with three single-player campaigns and new multiplayer features. 
 Like in the original Call of Duty, the single-player campaigns include highlights from the American, 
 British, and Russian experiences of WWII. The American missions quickly bring players into the 
 thick of the battles of Bastogne and the Bulge, featuring the Germans' last efforts to counter-attack 
 the inevitable invasion of Germany in December of 1944. Next, players go back a few years to become 
 a British B-17 gunner during a bombing run over Germany in September of 1941, followed by a sabotage 
 mission preceding "Operation Husky," the July 1943 invasion of Sicily. The final campaign takes 
 place throughout the Russian Battle of Kursk, featuring elements of trench warfare, large-scale 
 tank battles, and heroic assaults on bombed-out cities.
  
  -AcydRaine 
::::::

::::::
UserName: exhorst
Rating: 9.6
Date: Apr 25, 2006 6:41 am PT
Review:  What an expansion this is! First you take part in Belgium in the biggest battle you have probably 
 every played in a game. Then you fight for your life onboard a B-17 Bomber in the skies of Holland. 
 Then you go behind enemy lines and attempt to destroy artillery on huge cliffs, and then you take 
 part in explosion filled Russian missions where you are faced with massive infantry charges and 
 German Stuka's swooping at you from the side.
  
  The multiplayer is even better than Call of Duty, there are more modes of play, more gigantic maps 
 and it is even more fun.
  
  If you own and liked Call of Duty, this expansion pack will not let you down. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: policyboy
Rating: 9.2
Date: May 3, 2006 3:40 pm PT
Review:  There is nothing special to the vast majority of expansions that come out. A few levels here, a 
 couple new skins there. Maybe throw in a weapon or two, and if you're feeling generous a new type 
 of online play. Fortunately our fine friends at Gray Matter (Infinity Ward did not make this expansion) 
 don't subscribe to the norms and their first CoD expansion is no exception. Aside from the addition 
 of a whole slew of new singleplayer levels, you're given the one true weapon missing from the original 
 CoD- VEHICLES. That's right... It's time to go BF 1942 on all your compatriots online. You now 
 have the luxury of getting in jeeps, tanks, and other mobile items in your efforts to down the 
 axis once and for all. The added elements play heavily into the multiplayer realm, and as such, 
 they truly change the game 110%. One nice thing is that the vehicles can be disabled server side 
 allowing those puritans to enjoy their slow as molasses foot battles. The speed is stepped up as 
 is the entertainment. 
  The one drawback is the balance. It seems that thanks to the new found mobility on some maps there 
 are teams that dominate. There are several maps where the Axis cannot be stopped or vice versa. 
 Overall, however, the game is much improved and the additions are very welcome. This is a MUST 
 HAVE. I've seen it for $10 new now so there is no excuse. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Afko
Rating: 8.3
Date: Apr 14, 2006 8:35 am PT
Review:  This game really rocks !!!!! exactly what a war game has to be!!!! its a game that will really get 
 the top rankings.. this game is a really great first person shooter.. a game easy to learn and hard 
 to stop playing... everybody that really know about fps will love it and wont stop playing it.. like 
 me!! lol
  becarefull cause this game will make u forget all of ur other games .. especially its multy... its 
 f****g great!!!!!! really really great!!!! i give to it 8.3 cause of some gameplay and etc probs 
 i had = (
  
  i hope everybody will understunt its value... if i were u.... all.... lol.... i would buy it... like.. i 
 did!! rofl
  peace!!! lol 
::::::

::::::
UserName: timbo0827
Rating: 8.6
Date: Apr 11, 2006 1:46 pm PT
Review:  Call of Duty for the PC was a great game when it first came out. With the new expansion pack United 
 Offensive it just gets better. The graphics are a little bit more of an improvement which you may 
 notice when you first play. The sound is the same as the first Call of Duty. From the Battle of 
 the Bulge to the Invasion of Sicily to the Battle of Kursk Call of Duty United Offensive is a great 
 game. Multiplayer is also different. New items and a ranking system changes are now new. With binoculars 
 you can now order artillery strikes which can both defeat your enemies and your allies in seconds. 
 Any fan of the Call of Duty series will appreciate United Offensive. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mrgrunge
Rating: 8.1
Date: Apr 9, 2006 10:39 am PT
Review:  I'm a multiplayer gamer, so any improvements upon the original multiplayer modes are a plus.
  
  You're no longer running around expecting heavy sniper fire. Now, you're running around expecting 
 the loud roar of a tank shell to rip you apart. Oh - and of course if the tanks don't get you, 
 I'm sure the snipers will. Welcome to United Offensive. 
  
  To keep it short and sweet: United Offensive added vehicles, sprinting, and larger maps (amongst 
 other things) . The main addition which most people would point out, would of course be vehicles. 
 Who doesn't enjoy driving a jeep in game, speeding past a Sherman, evading death by means of speed? 
 Who doesn't enjoy (in the same light) blowing up a jeep full of marines?
  
  Vehicles impact gameplay enormously. A single tank can keep the opposing team from advancing or 
 capturing your flag. Most players understand this concept and surprisingly enough, you'll find 
 many troops going on suicide runs in order to rebalance the gameplay. On the other hand, sometimes 
 the opposing team is more then willing to keep their single asset safe. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: cr3ati0n
Rating: 9.8
Date: Apr 8, 2006 4:52 pm PT
Review:  Wow. A great expansion pack. It didn't change the game it just kept the fun goin from the Call 
 of Duty it expanded. This is how i believe an expansion pack should be built. Play the first one 
 before the expansion pack because otherwise youll be lost in the storyline. The guns are cool the 
 explosions are cool too. The storyline makes you feel the pain and anxiety of those who served 
 in the U. S. armed forces. This game is one series I hope continues until the day i lose my interest 
 in video games. This is a must buy game, and for that matter series. Thank you activision for making 
 this series possible. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: herodotus2006
Rating: 9.6
Date: May 5, 2006 8:22 am PT
Review:  Where you were attacked by squads of Germans in "CoD", the expansion lets loose platoons (swarms, 
 to be exact) of the enemy at you. Every engagement gets frantic fast, and the enemy AI is ruthless) . 
 Starting as it does with the main assault of the Ardennes Offensive ( must have been in General 
 Manteuffel's 5th Panzer Army region as there is no prepatory artillery barrage - the shells land 
 at the same moment as the troops do) . You had better get your mouse well oiled, 'cause you're gonna 
 be swingin' that baby around like a lightsabre. You will also be using melee combat far, far more 
 often too) . Your squaddies' AI is quite authentic assisting where they can, but the Germans want 
 YOU! The main objective for you is to stay the hell alive; but for the game, you have several objectives 
 that if you don't complete will have you wearing a mortar round square on your head. It feels like 
 Custer's last stand (though Custer wasn't at the the historically accurate last stand that took 
 place in Deep River, where the last of the 7th ran to after Custer fell at "Last Stand Hill") . 
 History lessons aside, it would be plenty helpful to have a grasp on the historical events presented 
 in the game.
  When in the B-17 sequence, its' just as frantic. When the turret 50 cals are fired, the tracer 
 streams they send out (squiggly yellow lines) are the most graphically accurate in any WWII game 
 so far. Compare it to gun-camera footage from the war and you'll see what I mean. The German fighters 
 also use what was to become the most devestating form of attack on a B-17. Fly straight at the 
 cockpit and when at 1000 yds, hammer down for 2 seconds and zoom under the bomber (or into it) . 
 That 2 secs of 30mm cannon and 7.62mm bullet fire tore the cockpit to shreds, usually killing one 
 or both pilots. Hence the chin turret gun in the later B-17G.
  The point of this historical background is that "CoD: UO" is far more authentic, & therefore more 
 difficult than any WWII FPS so far (makes MOHAA feel like a doddle) . The graphics are stepped up 
 a respectable notch (and improve the original CoD's when installed) , but the sheer volume of objects 
 thrown at you couldn't allow for too big a step up. Gameplay over presentation. But not by much. 
 Both are equally excellent.
  The final Kursk/ Kharkov Russian campaign is nasty. Watch out for med kits and ammo all the time. 
 It reflects the bitter house-to-house fighting here very uncomfortably. Save, reload, save.
  The original game set a high standard for developers and gamers. If you've played the original, 
 then be prepared for the expansion as being a tough tour of duty, and very unforgiving of player 
 tactical errors. But hey, that's war. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rocker500
Rating: 9.4
Date: Apr 3, 2006 2:50 pm PT
Review:  Story- 10/10: United Offensive does a great job of sticking you right in the middle of these famous 
 WWII battles.
  
  Gameplay- 10/10: It probably won't take you longer than 30 minutes to master the controls of this 
 game, if you've played a FPS for PC before.
  
  Graphics- 9/10: These graphics were great when the game first came out, and they are still pretty 
 good today.
  
  Sound- 9/10: Awesome since they got the gun sounds directly from the actual guns.
  
  Value- 
 8/10: After beating the single player campaign, you'll have alot of fun in multiplayer, but sometimes 
 it can get repetitive. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rdhnightwolf
Rating: 8.8
Date: Mar 27, 2006 11:30 am PT
Review:  After having such success with Call of Duty, one might think, how can they top that? Easy, add 
 vehicles. Thats just what United Offensive does. Adds jeeps and tanks to the mix. Throw in a few 
 new gametypes and there ya have it. 
  
  Although not a fan of how the vehicles move and shoot, I see where they come in handy...... especially 
 in the game mode Base Assault. This is probably one of the best additions to the game. 3 bases 
 must be assaulted with tanks, rockets, or grenades. Once the base is destroyed, you plant a bomb 
 at the bottom of the base. All this must be done while the enemy is trying to do the same to your 
 bases. What will you do? Stop them or advance? 
  
  For an expansion, this game hands out a pretty decent value. The graphics are pretty much the same 
 as is the sound. The game play is pretty much the same except for the addition of the vehicles. 
 
  
  If you're tiring of CoD and want some more oomph out of it, get this expansion and you won't be 
 disappointed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: terryprior
Rating: 9.2
Date: Mar 16, 2006 12:17 pm PT
Review:  Last year marked the emergence of one of the best squad-based, first person WWII shooters on the 
 PC, Call of Duty. The title boasted gritty, realistic graphics, adrenaline-pumping locales, and 
 some of the most memorable scripted-action sequences of any game in its genre. Based on Call of 
 Duty's success and the vast scope of the war it covers, it seemed inevitable that Activision would 
 bank on an expansion pack, bringing players new and more exciting scenarios, weapons, and game 
 modes. Heeding the call, Grey Matter Studios (the team that designed Return to Castle Wolfenstein) 
 has developed the add-on named United Offensive, returning gamers to battle by land, sea, and air. 
 
  United Offensive is an expansion pack with three single-player campaigns and new multiplayer features. 
 Like in the original Call of Duty, the single-player campaigns include highlights from the American, 
 British, and Russian experiences of WWII. The American missions quickly bring players into the 
 thick of the battles of Bastogne and the Bulge, featuring the Germans' last efforts to counter-attack 
 the inevitable invasion of Germany in December of 1944. Next, players go back a few years to become 
 a British B-17 gunner during a bombing run over Germany in September of 1941, followed by a sabotage 
 mission preceding "Operation Husky," the July 1943 invasion of Sicily. The final campaign takes 
 place throughout the Russian Battle of Kursk, featuring elements of trench warfare, large-scale 
 tank battles, and heroic assaults on bombed-out cities. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vufor
Rating: 9.2
Date: Mar 13, 2006 2:59 am PT
Review:  What a great add on. it should be the separate game rather than add on. 
  a lots of job done for improving graphic in game, sound effects is still in same brilliance as 
 it was in original game.
  
  Ohhhh, storyline is just impressive in this game, you never get bored or what so ever. Thats makes 
 game one of the favorites. Keeps its place with honor in game collection self!!
  I could not stop playing this game and finished it quicker than i was expecting... so i might try 
 it again in close future. I have never tried it is multiplayer so far, (2004) but I have tried it 
 in 2005 and must say it is just smashing. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: MrBlake
Rating: 9.1
Date: Mar 7, 2006 5:57 pm PT
Review:  This game has all the goodies of COD and then some. 
  
  The new missions with vehicles like the B-17 mission which ROCKED!!!!!!!! are excellent additions. 
 With that the vehicle additions to multiplayer change the scope a lot, but while they are only 
 available in some maps, it allows players to still duke it out without them. Smart move Activision.
 
  
  Graphics are still good, with higher res textures and more volumetric smoke. Dated graphics never 
 looked sooooo good :-D
  
  Sound is incredible. Its so good in fact, it makes my ears bleed with joy. I have spoken.
  
 
  Value. Its an expansion pack, so missions are fewer, but the multiplayer additions make up for 
 that. But for an expansion it does exactly what it intends to. EXPAND.
  
  WOOOO I LOVE COD IT ROCKS MY SOCKS. GO BUY IT NOWWW!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Beefycake
Rating: 9.2
Date: Feb 28, 2006 10:52 am PT
Review:  You wake up tired to the bone, only to have slept for less than 2 hours. 
  The coffee wasnt made, your socks are wet and i think someone took a leak in your foxhole... just 
 when you thought war couldnt get anyworse... oh boy! its gonna get a whole lot worse!
  CALL OF DUTY: UNITED OFFENSIVE is the expansion pack to the 
  intenese ww2 shooter,,,, well,,,, CALL 
 OF DUTY. Considering the fact that this is an expansion.. I must say this one is quite impressive...... so 
 what does United Offensive have to offer to all of us. Well for the basic, it will have brand new 
 missions... up to 13 missions that is.. once again youll fight in the shoes of the Allies soldiers 
 of WW2. 
  
  First there is the America Campaign where youll play as a Coporal Scott Riley of the 101st airborne.,
 
  Youll witness and fight through the harsh cold winter in "THE BATTLE OF BULGE". Second there is 
 the British Campaign where youll play as 
  S. O. E Operative James Doyle. Youll fly thorugh the skies as a gunner with the R. A. F, preparing 
 for the invasion of Sicily. And third youll experince the Russian Campaign thorugh the eyes of 
 a Russian Conscript Yuri Petrenko, as youll fight in THE BATTLE OF KURSK" known as the greatest 
 Tank battle in history. 
  
  This expansion pack offers incredible new features for CALL OF DUTY. 
  There are new weapons 
 given and items for fighting. Some are new deployable machine gun, such as the M1919 30. Cal machine 
 gun, the german MG34, the SVT 40 , bazookas , flamethrowers and plently more. Another great feature 
 is your ability to use vehicles in the games. Youll be able to use tanks, drive a jeep and even 
 ride a boat. 
  
  The gameplay itself is byfar better. The battles are much more intenese, the fighting is harder 
 and there will be an enormous amount of enemies runing towards!!! The sound and music is pretty 
 much the same as the original, however the sound of the new weapons are amazing. The missions itself 
 is more than enough,, at least up to 5 to 10 hours.. however the missions in this game are not easy, 
 but rather much more challenging. 
  
  But if you do get bored of the mission, theres is the multiplayer, and it is really fun.. If youve 
 ever played Battlefield 1942, than you can expect that you and your teammates willl be able to 
 use TANKS, Jeeps, ships and other, plus there are up ro 11 new multiplayer maps and challenges. 
 
  To sum up Call of Duty: United Offensive is a surprisingly great
  expansion pack for Call of Duty. If you havent played it, get this games! cause this expansion 
 pack Rocks!!
  
  P. s: "DINNERS ON ME!!!" Capt. Foley
  
  Pros: New mission, new multiplayer maps, able to drive vehicles, new weapons and much more intenese!! 
 VERY IMPRESSIVE expansion pack
  
  Cons: No new improvements on graphics nor the sound 
::::::

::::::
UserName: superpolo007
Rating: 8.9
Date: Feb 25, 2006 4:41 pm PT
Review:  Call of Duty UO is great. It has great multiplayer although the singleplayer mode is real short. 
 But the multiplayer is so good that you can even forget the singleplayer mode. And if you get the 
 patch, you an even better game. You can download new maps and weapons. The game becomes even better 
 for free!! COD UO is one of the best WWII first-person shooter ever!! It takes all the shortcomings 
 of COD and makes them better. You sould really buy it, it is great and its worth the spending. 
 This all i have to say but i have to write a 100 words at least so... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dawgz_Homies
Rating: 8.6
Date: Feb 21, 2006 10:46 pm PT
Review:  When it comes to call of duty.... it's a name synonymous with World War 2 games. To clarify... its 
 an example of a superb WW2 game. So does the expansion United Offensive deliver more excitement?
 
  
  CoD: UO is a game that shows... when developers care about a game.... they can do a lot with it. COD 
 UO just perfects the original COD by so much.... that it would take me forever to explain. The gameplay 
 mechanics are still there... but just the small things. Such as the feature to sprint... or gaining 
 ranks in battle. Those small things go a long way. The singleplayer is probably what mostly stayed 
 the same except with a few additions such as new weapons and new types of missions (like flying 
 a B2 bomber) . For those who want more of the same great action.... its definately there. This time 
 the developers added tons of more enemies coming at you at a time. So much so it feels like that 
 old school game Serious Sam! But this adds a lot fun to the missions even if it does seem a little 
 bit too unrealistic. But lemme get to the real show.... which is the awesome multiplayer!
  
  Gray Matter just gave multiplayer the huge face lift it needed. With the new features that I talked 
 about earlier such as sprint, artillery strikes, battle ranks and even VEHICLES the game call of 
 duty... has just become a lot better. I noticed that so many more people play this game, and even 
 more so because of how much more competitive and balanced it is. In other words...... Gray Matter.... you 
 better listen to these three words,
  
  I LOVE YOU! 
  
  lol and that's all folks. The point being CoD UO is an awesome game so go out and buy it as if 
 you have COD already its only 10 bucks at most shops. Can't wait to frag your asses online **** 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: flibblewerfer
Rating: 9.1
Date: Feb 18, 2006 10:54 am PT
Review:  UO is without doubt a great game, it has massive battlegrounds where you have to run across a bombed 
 out field taking german fire as an American, and sneaking behind enemy lines as a British RAF soldier 
 to sabotage enemy artillery. It features lots of terrains, like the Battle of the Bulge, and raiding 
 foy, Battle of Karkov and the Russians charging in with guns blazing (yes that does mean you're 
 given ammo this time) and is tons of fun. It has a great multiplayer with new maps that you never 
 get bored of, and a new improved scope vision that way you can fit more in the image. Overall i 
 think United Offense was a great game, and i highly recomend anyone buying it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: janoma
Rating: 9.2
Date: Feb 16, 2006 11:49 am PT
Review:  If you liked the original Call of Duty, you'll love United Offensive as it betters almost every 
 possible thing of its predecessor.
  
  The sound effects were impressive in Call of Duty, and yet the UO's sound is even more impressive. 
 The ambience sounds take you exactly to the middle of a war, with gunfire all around you, and even 
 when you don't see a single enemy soldier you're still able to hear an ocassional fire exchange 
 somewhere in the distance.
  
  The graphics are as good as in the original game of the series, but something tells me Activision 
 could have developed a little more in this department. Or perhaps my medium-profile PC wasn't enough 
 to prove me wrong. Nevertheless, as I saw almost the same graphics of a game released eleven months 
 ago, I keep my position on the nonexistent much-improved graphics that I was expecting.
  
  The missions are exceptionally good and quite difficult at some times. It is near impossible to 
 finish a mission without reloading when playing in veteran, and that makes the game a true challenge 
 for those fps-experts who use to play-and-finish every WWII shooter known. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TnTGreySnipe
Rating: 9.9
Date: Feb 16, 2006 6:31 am PT
Review:  THIS GAME IS UbR C0oL!!!
  A must get!!!
  you need this game absulutly brilliant!
  cant say much more. Why would i have been playing it for a year!
  too good to describe! Aslo 
 very friendly people on it !
  everyone is your friend except a few idiots lol!
  everyone is a happy gamer
  
  Graphics are cool! sound quility is excelent and on my 5.1 speakers 
 sounds excelent! game play is fantastic with somew cool maps! also mod maps are cool! 
  Supourb value for money i got this when it came out at xmas and it was 34.99 for cod 1 and cod: UO 
 and it was well worth it! ill tell u that! but now u can get it from ebay for 10! MEGA DEAL """!!!"""
 
  As a reviewer i think this is a world class game and think it can only be behind the legendary 
 halo!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Colonel_Snake
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 8, 2006 1:00 pm PT
Review:  There are also not many new missions; this is far short of the original's length. However, this 
 product shines in the multiplayer. The new maps are fun (although some are a little large for practicality) 
 but the big improvement are the new combat features. You'd be surprised how much adding sprint, 
 satchel charges and mountable machine guns as a primary weapon helps the multiplayer games become 
 so much more fun. The rank structure is also a great idea and adds a new element of challenge to 
 the multiplayer game and helps a game progress. Note that, especially for the larger maps and busier 
 servers, a fast connection is required. Reccommend 1mbit to avoid being shut out of servers for 
 high pings.
  
  Overall this is a great expansion and recommended to buy if you got Call of Duty. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: buccs882
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 7, 2006 7:33 pm PT
Review:  Cod Uo is a great game but it has many problems to start things off the game runs many ai scripts 
 at 1 time and these scripts must be complteted in order to go to next objections but many times 
 this doesnt happen so u are stuck redoing the whole freakin level or from last save spot now the 
 game is really much harder than its predecessor thats good but gets annoying when you have to redo 
 the level many glitches that i run into is blowing up the bridge truck not moving and truck not 
 moving again warious buttons dont work no more and so on the game also moves really slow at times 
 even on a high powered machine but other than that its has every great thing about the original 
 plus some game is fun added weapons like bazooka flamethrower u can be the gunner in a plane and 
 various other thing but its main plus comes from it exceedingly good multiplayer with many different 
 modes to go through.
  Though this game has had problems for me and from reading forums the same problem for other people 
 the pro exceed the cons this is a great game and should be given a chance by ne video game fan. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: huss2215
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jan 29, 2006 7:51 pm PT
Review:  I guess I decided to review this finally. Short but very amazing expansion to the best war game 
 made. Still realistic war game, Still craziest war game ever! No war game still can't compare. 
 This Game is the greatest war game ever. Still this game delivered action at each corner, with 
 your whole army by your side its slogan "In war no one fights alone" lived up to be truely amazing. 
 Gameplay-Great war everything is just great but 1 slight problem is I wanted this game to be a 
 bit longer, this expainsion was a bit short, still its multiplayer keeps things up. Multiplayer 
 drivable vehicles and new game modes like base assualt which are really really fun and with the 
 new capture the flag was really great. Graphics-Outstandingly real. Sound-Real war sounds that 
 make you feel your in the action. Value- Grab this game its defenitly awesome online multiplayer 
 and worth an expansion price. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jicku2
Rating: 9.6
Date: Mar 5, 2006 3:47 pm PT
Review:  Call of duty was Great. And this one build on top of it all. The Multyplayer mostly, is just terrific. 
 The origianals multyplayer was just absouloutly fantastic But Something was missing, VEHICLES, 
 and while it does'nt quite live up to Battlefield 1942's vehicles (Mostly no planes) its is 10 TIMES 
 more intense. The single player is rather challenging, but thats okay, cause its fun. Its nice 
 how it goes from one important event to the other. In my Great game and you should deffinaently 
 go out and buy it.
  
  (100 word fill in jhue shfu ekah awhu alisfd ahiufa fdhau aiwbf ahd afoliah 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 20860399346417257776889966510425-bull_people
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 14, 2006 7:47 am PT
Review:  Call of Duty: United Offensive is the expansion pack to one of last years best FPS, Call of Duty. 
 United Offensive does a great job holding up to the Call of Duty name and is a great expansion 
 pack in its own right.
  
  Gameplay,
  The gameplay in Untied Offensive is roundly the same or identical to the gameplay of Call of Duty 
 so those of you who disliked the gameplay in Call of Duty will most likely think the same wait 
 about United Offensive. 
  
  Graphics,
  The graphics in United Offensive are the same as Call of Duty, which was powered by the Quake three 
 engine and the graphics have been improved a bit from Call of Duty but not too much so its easy 
 to notice.
  
  Sound, 
  The sound in Call of Duty was amazing and Untied Offensive soundtrack still holds strong.
  
 
  Value,
  The campaign in United Offensive is around the same size as the campaigns in Call of Duty so expect 
 around 5-10 hours max depending what difficulty setting you have it on but the multiplayer is what 
 will keep in the game. The multiplayer in Call of Duty was very fun and addictive and United Offensive 
 just takes up to a whole new level. With some very well made new maps and extremely fun new multiplayer 
 modes. 
  
  Overall,
  United Offensive is a great expansion pack and anyone who liked Call of Duty even a little bit 
 you should defiantly get United Offensive. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: gstonyr
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jan 8, 2006 4:54 pm PT
Review:  call of duty united offence is one of the hardest games ever it is so intense that it makes real 
 war easier. If you Havant played regular call of duty you will not be experienced an off to play 
 this one. unlike th first call of duty this multiplier is much more advanced. there is so much 
 more you can do like drive tanks, and jeeps. you also have objectives instead of just killing people. 
 like the first one. the Graphics are incredible. the game rarely lags, and rarely freezes. the 
 battles are so intense that that it really makes you think. the game is hard but great. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Menfear
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jan 9, 2006 9:08 am PT
Review:  The expansion for the original Call of duty. With outstanding cool battles, Call of Duty: United Offensive 
 puts its self on the top of WW2 games. Besides Brothers in Arms, Medal of Honor and some other this 
 game is the best for most of us and most important, for me.
  
  The campaign is the same as in its predecessors, you play ass three Allied soldiers -- an American 
 paratrooper, a British SAS commando, and a Soviet infantryman -- in battle against the Nazi Germans. From 
 one front to the an other completing mission objectives form A-B. From wild car "run aways" to shooting 
 one after an other airplane form the British airplane.
  
  In this expansion pack there are few differentces from the original. Here you can run, so you arent 
 so slow, you can cook grenades-whit that the grenade explodes sooner-, the smoke grenade, with it 
 you can sneak behind the back of enemy`s easyer than before and smoking sniper and machine gun 
 nests. Some new guns-light machine guns, some new rocket launchers and some new rifles. Then also 
 the British soldiers have a new pistol called "Webley"-like a magnum-a much stronger pistol than 
 the American pistol they had before.
  
  In the opening battle in the American campaign, Bastogne you drive through German forces with fellow 
 soldiers to a farm and from that point to the battle. In Call of Duty: United Offensive there is 
 massively full of Germans coming at you so you got to be focused and in this mission especially 
 because you have to run from one foxhole to an other or they will shot down with artillery. So more 
 soldiers coming on you that in Call of Duty-the 
  original.
  
  In the British campaign you start off as gunner in a B-17 Flying Fortress that's on a bombing mission 
 over Germany. You have to shot waves of incoming German Luftwaffe fighters. The sequence is looking 
 pretty great, you also have to move from the back to the cockpit, then you have to open a jammed 
 shutter so that the pilot can drop down bombs. Then the airplane get shot and you fell down with 
 a parachute and land in a tree over a couple of Germans. Then some British soldiers get them out 
 of the way and the fight on the land begins.
  
  The Russian portion of the game is the biggest one as you are facing Hitlers soldiers from-face-to 
 face in a deadly chaotic battle for the victory in Russia. Destroying numbers of "anit-tank"nest 
 and also tanks from Nazi Germans.
  
  So all-in-all the singleplayer is very short, in most of expanisons that is so. There is about 8-10 
 hours to play, really not much. But we also have the better half, the-multiplayer.
  
  The multiplayer is really the thing i bought this game as in all games i buy. Its really great and 
 now also whit better, new weapons and some changed maps.
  
  The big change from the original Call of Duty game is that in this multiplayer you have tanks and 
 cars and rocket launcher that you didnt need in the original.
  
  New weapons are also here like "Tokarev"-semi automatic rifle by Russians, the infantry machine 
 gun "Degtyarev". The Germans have also have one gun that is the same as "Tokarev"by Russians that 
 is called "Gewehr 43"-so some new weapons and alos a satchel charge that you can pick it up in 
 maps on different places or you get it when you rank is higher.
  
  As mentioned, the ranking system goes like this-When you help ypur team win and you kill some enemy`s 
 and even if you survive in "Search&Destroy"you get point and then ranks. With higher rank you get 
 satchel charges, more grandes, more ammo for pistol and when you are a very high rank you also can 
 charge artilery with your scope.
  
  Some new combat modes are new in United Offensive-"Domination"-Two teams attepting to capture 5 
 to 7 separate zones on a map. Zone with flag and the player has to stand next to the flag for a 
 period of time to raise their side` flag. The firs team that captures all zones wins.
  
  The "Capture the flag"-A team oriented mode, each team must locate the enemy`s flag and take it 
 and then bring it to theyr own base to capture it. To successfully capture an ememy`s flag, your 
 teams flag must be present at your base.
  
  The last new combat mode is called "Basse asault"-Also a team-oriented mode, each team must locate 
 and destroy three enemys bases on the map. To destroy it, teams must assault the base installations 
 with heavy weapons (tanks shells, bazookas, satchel charges, artilery strikes) and destroy the base`s 
 perimeter defenses. Once the defenses are down, infantry must infiltrate the base and plant charges. The 
 enemy then must defuse the bomb or they loses one point.
  
  So all-in-all Call of Duty: United Offensive offers some great stuff-a great multiplayer and then 
 a great and not long singleplayer. This is the best WW2 shooter so far.
  
  Gameplay-its really fun to play the game, i should say there is the same thing melted in this game 
 as in all WW2 shooters. Just over and over again recycled shooting.
  
  Graphics-I wont say that the graphics are too good, they arent-they could be better and i am disappointed 
 in that point.
  
  Sound-a good voice acting and cool sound effects.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: SSJ4-SaGohan
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 26, 2005 5:18 pm PT
Review:  This game is good, but not as good as the first one. In the expansion one, the missions are more 
 advanced, and longer. Their basically the same but a lot better. This game have more guns to use 
 in the levels. This game has better and more things than the first one. The problem for this game 
 are:
  
  1. This game is not as interesting as the previous one.
  2. This game don't have that much levels that the old one but each missions in COD Expansion, it's 
 longer.
  3. This game doesn't follow the same storyline as COD.
  
  This game has a better MP game than COD. You have more maps and vechicle's you could ride on. More 
 places to discover and camp (hide from the enemy's) . This game have enough better and worst details 
 than the original COD.
  
  If you do have COD, then buy this new COD. It might not be better, but it will countinue some of 
 the storyline from COD. And for those once who have not ever played COD, then you will love this 
 game just as much as the previous one. And if you have this new game all ready, then buy COD 2 
 or COD 2: Big Red one. Oh ya COD stands for Call of Duty.
  
  Ciao 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stewy942
Rating: 9.3
Date: Dec 22, 2005 10:24 am PT
Review:  I have played my fair share of online games and this has to be one of the greatest. The graphics 
 are amazing, the physics are realistic, and the game play is unbeatable. I say this game is one 
 of the best games ever for the PC. Playing the campain is also great fun. The campain is challenging 
 and exciting! I have spent a long time looking for a game like this and I have finaly found it. 
 You can get Call of Duty and Call of duty: United Offensive in a box set for only $29.95. The price 
 is better then great. If you are into online gaming and tons of action, this game is were it's 
 at! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SaM31991
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 10, 2005 8:43 am PT
Review:  The multiplayer is highly addictive so if you don't have a lot of free time don't get really deep 
 in the game, but if you're someone like me looking for addictive games because you have to much 
 free time this game is for you. The price is great you're getting a great game for you're money. The 
 graphics are moderate the single player is fun but you must try the multiplayer. If you've played 
 Call of Duty's multiplayer in UO there's new maps, cars, tanks, and new weapons, it also has the 
 same maps from Call of Duty. All in all you're getting a great game for you're money. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zwulith
Rating: 8.9
Date: Dec 4, 2005 4:33 am PT
Review:  Call of duty united offensive is the follow up to one of the best World war 2 first person shooters 
 ever made, Call of duty. Call of duty united offensive is an expansion pack made by Graymatter, 
 not Infinity ward, which did the original. Call of duty united offensive is a really good follow 
 up and if it wasn't for the fact that the back of the box shows a different developer on it, you'd 
 think it was Infinity ward again, it's that good.
  
  First and foremost, this is an expansion pack, so don't expect a terribly long game. About 6 or 
 so hours is all you'll find and at $30 that can be quite steep, but the game is so easy to get 
 into, just like the original, that you'll forget all about it. Also, you need to have the original 
 to play this game, so don't rush out and get this game unless you have the original Call of duty.
 
  
  United offensive is just like the original in pretty much every way, even the graphics. The difficulty 
 has been bumped up a bit, you seem to take a bit more damage, but the same team based shooting 
 and the: "Your just a small soldier fighting a bigger war" are all present here. Call of duty united 
 offensive does a great job of capturing many of the great moments of World war 2 and really adds 
 on to the original Call of duty with it's fantastic presentation values that makes it a must play 
 for anyone who enjoys first person shooters in general, World war 2 or otherwise. 
  
  Just like the original, you take the role of 3 different, very common soldiers from a Russian, 
 British, and American perspective. Call of duty united offensive is pretty much the same Call of 
 duty, the frantic gameplay, fast firefights, and of course working together for the victory.
  
  The game doesn't really have any story to it. As a matter of fact, the only real story is what 
 happened in terms of historical events, such as the capture of Stalingrad. There isn't any personal 
 story that involves you, which is great and makes you feel like your part of a bigger story.
  
  The big drawback to the game is you never get to know any of your characters. None of them 
 say anything and it's somewhat odd, especially when all Hell is breaking loose. Still it adds to 
 the cinematic flare and makes you feel like your there since they don't talk. 
  
  The graphics really help this happen. They look downright gorgous. Environments and levels all 
 look very well detailed and you gotta love the fact that the framerate never drops. With that said, 
 the character models are a little off, but that's a small complaint considering how wild and fast 
 this game is.
  
  Call of duty united offensive, just like the original, has a compass that you can use that does 
 such things as pointing you out in the right direction and telling you where your allies are. Since 
 you have quite a few allies in the game, expect to see a lot of them on your compass. 
  
  The objectives in Call of duty united offensive are pretty much the same as the original. You shoot 
 up a bunch of bad guys, blow up stuff with bombs, there's even a few tank levels and a mission 
 where you fly a plane and shoot down a whole bunch of other planes. Still the game feels to similar 
 to the original Call of duty that it really doesn't feel like a fresh package, even for an expansion. 
 
  
  All of the levels look the same as the original Call of duty. You'll fight all over World war 2's 
 famous levels, just like the first entry and all of it is done really well, especially how you 
 go from urban fighting to country side warfare, it all works out. The graphics are so similar that 
 you almost think that Graymatter stole the original Call of duty and just switched the levels around. 
 So if you loved the original you will love this one. Of course, who doesn't love the original? 
 It's one of my favorite shooters of all time.
  
  The sound effects and music is nothing short of amazing. It's all very dramatic and perfect, along 
 with some outstanding voice acting, again just like the original. The weapons all pack a punch, 
 sound wise and I really loved the musical score that played whenever something dramatic happened, 
 or just to keep you going so it isn't oddly quiet.
  
  Call of duty united offensive doesn't reinvent the World war 2 first person shooter era, but it 
 does deliver more of the same great gameplay that we love from the original. So if you loved the 
 original then definitely give this game a try because Graymatter really did a number with this 
 entry. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Spyderfan1212
Rating: 9.4
Date: Dec 2, 2005 7:36 pm PT
Review:  I loved Call of Duty, the single player, the multiplayer, nearly eveything about it.
  
  So it's only natural that i love this one too right? well the answer is yes, and i did love it. 
 First the weapon design is well much better, the thompson looks ALOT better than it did in the 
 original. The sound is still about the same which is REALLy good, and Activision plays it safe 
 and doesn't stray away form what made the orignal CoD a big hit (thank god) .
  
  Single Player: While relatively short in lenght the single player is a HUGE improvement. The problem 
 with the mg42's always shooting at you and not you sqaudmates has bin fixed along with some of 
 the other problems. The levels are alot more fun, and becasue the addition of vehicles it is alot 
 more fun too. Picture it, your seargent driving fast as crap up and down hills while your on a 
 .50 cal shooting the crap outta nazis. Than your in a fox hole, krauts are charging you and you 
 have another .50 clan and your job is too shoot them. ALOT OF FUN.
  
  Multiplayer: This mulitplayer is so much different than the orginal. First it had a large amount 
 of weapon additions (so does Singleplayer) ranging from a bazooka to a portable .50 cal. The map 
 designs are SO much bigger and better. The new maps make some of the original maps look like you 
 backyard. The orignal maps are still in there jsut with all the new weapons and stuff. and the 
 additions of Tanks and Jeeps. There is also a number of new gametypes, my personal favorite being 
 "Bunker Battle" or something like that, when each team has to take out the opposing team's 3 bunkers. 
 First you have to blow the bunker up using tanks, artilley, or a rocet launcher. Once you do that 
 you have to move down to the basement and set a charge, which the other team can defuse. When that 
 bomb blows up than the bunker is destroyed.
  
  This game is HUGE improvement of the last and if your looking for both a good singleplayer and 
 MP here ya go. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ariel_king
Rating: 9.1
Date: Nov 30, 2005 5:46 am PT
Review:  I played this game and I had a lot fun with this game.
  
  Gameplay: You play as usuall a soldier and you are trying to stop the other army from kicking your 
 butts. The players are cool, the areas are big and the weapons are great.
  
  Graphics: The graphisc are worser than the graphics of the original game. The weapons look good 
 but the areas just suck.
  
  Sound: You get the same sound as the original game so there isn't something new in the sound.
 
  
  Value: You can play for hours and hours trying to finish the game. The storyline is way longer 
 than the original game but I liked the online in the original game more than the online in this 
 game.
  
  Reviewer's tilt: Overall this game is a great WW2 game but if you like good online WW2 shooter 
 game then I won't recommend you on this. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Doom1327
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 29, 2005 4:24 pm PT
Review:  Drivable vehicles for online play was a great addition. Jeeps, Tanks, only two things missing, 
 boats, and planes. I really think the infantry gameplay is better than the first also. Great game, 
 but you need COD1 before you can play it. REPEAT: Drivable vehicles for online play was a great 
 addition. Jeeps, Tanks, only two things missing, boats, and planes. I really think the infantry 
 gameplay is better than the first also. Great game, but you need COD1 before you can play it. REPEAT: 
 Drivable vehicles for online play was a great addition. Jeeps, Tanks, only two things missing, 
 boats, and planes. I really think the infantry gameplay is better than the first also. Great game, 
 but you need COD1 before you can play it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: heyitsthemole
Rating: 9.1
Date: Nov 24, 2005 11:52 am PT
Review:  Take a WW2 FPS, combine it with AWSOME graphics, SPECTACULAR SOUND, great AI, and put on a CD compatable 
 with your computer, and what do you get? Yea thats right, you get Call Of Duty: United Offensive. 
 This game is stunning. The graphics are rideculous how good they are, and if you think thats good, 
 turn up your hearing aid because the sound is only 10x better. They went out of their way to go 
 and fire real rounds of each and every gun to get the amazing sound that you hear. 
  
  I found myself addicted to this game within 1 hour of game play. And if you pick it up, then I 
 guarntee that you too will become addicted to one of the best WW2 fps on the market. 
  
  Call of Duty: UO is an expansion pack to the original Call of Duty, and let me just say that when 
 they say EXPANSION pack, they EXPAND the game play in ways you would never guess. I believe that 
 their is like 5-10 new guns avalible. The levels are beautiful as usual, and the AI is still as 
 smart as before. One of my favorite new features added to this game from the original Call of Duty 
 is how you can hold the pin in a grenade. This makes it so that if you hold the pin for a while 
 before throwing it, your enemy will not have a chance to pick it up and throw it back, instead 
 you just get to sit back and enjoy the fireworks of bodies. 
  
  If there is anything wrong with this game, it is that you cant go stealth in almost every mission. 
 If you try and go off course to snipe, there is either a fence blocking your way, or a mine field 
 5 feet off the course which is impossible to navigate through. 
  
  All in all, Call of Duty: United Offensive is a georgous game for its genre and is a must have 
 to the Enormous collection to all the WW2 games out there.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: millertime00312
Rating: 9.8
Date: Nov 22, 2005 7:15 pm PT
Review:  Call of Duty: United Offensive is an excellent expansion pack. It is significantly more engaging 
 than the original and the multiplayer is extremely better. They added alot of new weapons and now 
 you can sprint, which is an awesome idea. The gameplay is very smooth and action-packed. The graphics 
 are a tad bit better too. The single playey puts you right in the middle of the action and once 
 you start playing, you will never want to stop. I played the entire game all the way through. Ok, 
 now for the multiplayer. This is the absolute best multiplayer game I have played because is just 
 so fun. There are thousands of servers to choose from and there are a number gametypes. Personally, 
 I like to play rifles only servers because it requires more skill. You will get so addicted to 
 this game and will never want to stop, especially the multiplayer! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: oamorap
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 19, 2005 9:52 am PT
Review:  Pues si, espectacular. Si el juego me encanto, la expansin me dejo boquiabierto, conserva los 
 mismos detalles que hacen del original un clasico de los videojuegos, pero le aade cositas que 
 personalmente me fascinaron.
  
  No voy a mentir, si es mucho mas jodida que el COD, pero eso no le quita lo emocionante, las misiones 
 son mucho mas largas y mas complicadas (aunque son mas pocas) , se siente por momentos el ambiente 
 real de guerra (sobretodo en la parte rusa) , el enemigo ahora si realmente te odia y te quiere 
 ver muerto lo antes posible.
  
  Cosas innovadoras: la misin del avin con los ingleses, en ningun otro WWII FPS habia visto algo 
 similar y el emular batallas reales.
  
  En definitiva una expansin digna del videojuego.
  
  oamorap
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: DragonKiller17
Rating: 9.2
Date: Nov 14, 2005 12:50 pm PT
Review:  First, you might expect a lot from an expansion of the game of the year 'call of duty,' and this 
 game does just that. Not only were the campaigns of this game more fun than the original, they 
 were more intense in a way. All of them were.
  
  The gameplay stayed the same from the original, still superb. The sound was good, and the value 
 still lacked because not all the single player missions were fun enough to get you to play it again, 
 and the multiplayer wasn't all that fun. I've seen funner multiplayers.
  
  The graphics were still great from the original. The AI could have been a bit smarter in a way. 
 Are your allies suppose to run past and enemy that's standing right in front of them in a hallway 
 of a building? I didn't think so.
  
  Anyways, I think this expansion to the alright game call of duty, is even better, and that you 
 should get it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: souljaXL
Rating: 9.6
Date: Nov 5, 2005 10:27 am PT
Review:  This game is great, i can't stop playing it. The graphics are ( as before) stunning. I espacially 
 like the change between nations, my personal favorite is the U. S. soldier. Another great thing 
 is that that the missions are worked out so good, like when you are in the plane you can actually 
 see where the enemy planes hit you. After you played this game on its highest difficulty, you can 
 say you have been trough WW II. You just can't stop playing this game.
  I would adviced to anyone who likes first person and expects great graphics and an awfull good 
 sound. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stopchris
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 29, 2005 3:55 pm PT
Review:  This game is the best game ever made! There is nothing else i can say about it...... it is an experience 
 any gamer should go through. i have spent countless! countless hours playing the multiplayer. the 
 single player i have beat more times than i can count on my fingers. meaning both cod and uo....... 
 then this review is for both.
  
  this game runs on any system, has great graphix and a great multiplayer and single player campaine.
 
  
  if you dont own cod and cod uo then you need to buy it now! especially cause at the time of this 
 review it is only 30 bucks for both! great price for a GREAT game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SpeedRunnerx
Rating: 9.8
Date: Oct 26, 2005 3:30 am PT
Review:  "United Offensive is an excellent expansion that takes the intensity of Call of Duty and ratchets 
 it up even higher." -Gamespot
  
  When I first heard about United Offensive, I was somewhat skeptical. Call of Duty was an instant 
 classic... I didn't think Gray Matter could make a worthy expansion to an outstanding game. I was 
 mistaken.
  
  First of all, Gray Matter kept everything that was good about the original Call of Duty, and then 
 added to it. Cookable nades, mobile machine guns, tanks, jeeps... everything about United Offensive 
 feels so right. The single player missions are breathtaking. The American battle of the bulge, 
 the British air and SAS missions, and the Russian assault on Kursk... has an amazing epic feel 
 to it, and heavily immerses you into WW2 combat. Sometimes it's easy to forget you're playing a 
 game! My only complaint about single player is the fact that it's too short.
  
  The multiplayer is outstanding. I played Call of Duty for well over 50 hours, I estimate I've played 
 CODUO for well over 300 hours. Call of Duty: United Offensive is an unparralled shooter. And this 
 is coming from somebody who owns UT2K4, Counter Strike Source, Doom 3, and several other excellent 
 shooters. UO has very good multiplayer maps, and hundreds upon hundreds of custom maps. There is 
 never ending entertainment in CODUO's multiplayer. I've had so many laughs and good times playing 
 with friends and clanmates.
  
  This is definatly a CLASSIC pc game. And I pray that COD2 and future Call of Duty titles will live 
 up to it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gla001b
Rating: 9.8
Date: Oct 23, 2005 6:59 pm PT
Review:  The demo I played was AWSOME. It takes place during the Battle of the Bulge, and is almost like 
 one of the episodes of Band of Brothers, In fact... you fight along side of Easy compony and you 
 get to do a jeep chase in a turret and pick a .30 cal machine gun and carry it around and place 
 it, pick it up and go. Along with having to go from foxhole to foxhole, looking for ammo and health. 
 The germans are pretty good and during the jeep chase you pass Dozens of platoons of riflemen and 
 tanks. DOWNLOAD THE DEMO TO SEE. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mtryon
Rating: 9.6
Date: Oct 14, 2005 8:13 am PT
Review:  Really CoD is the most addictive game I ever played. Both, stand alone and multiplayer. I wonder 
 why instead of CoD Finest Hour, this expansion lacks of more multiplayer maps (except for the 6 
 o 7 maps included in) , especially when it have new great features, like driving tanks & jeeps, 
 can put heavy machine guns in windows, etc. Besides, the capture the flag, Base, and other new 
 multiplayer options. Whit CoD I did download tons of maps from Internet web sites, but with this 
 expansion, none. Maybe all comunity fans are waiting for the CoD II. I cant wait for that! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: srickert12
Rating: 7
Date: Sep 20, 2005 4:13 pm PT
Review:  I was looking forward to this expansion pack and was disappointed in this game yet again. Don't 
 get me wrong it is a great FPS and doesn't have many problems, but just like its predecessor it 
 lacks a lot of thing I like is a war FPS. The graphics and sound are both good which is why it 
 got the score it did. The game play however lacks a certain fun factor. There are a lot of people 
 out there that love this game and I understand how they do. Its fun if you are looking for a good 
 story and FPS experience that is totally scripted. That is the fallback in the game and the series 
 to date. I feel that its just way to scripted. You can only go one place and are directed to it. 
 A lot of the game is just wave after wave of shooting a large amount of enemys. This to me takes 
 a lot of the fun away. There is no need for strategy because you are just shooting a lot of enemies. 
 When you shoot a glass bottle it doesnt break. You cant jump over railings in this game either. 
 You can only go one place and do one thing which in my opinion takes a lot of the fun away from 
 the game. I am hoping will Call Of Duty 2 they will correct this. For an expasion pack it is worth 
 the money if you liked Call Of Duty. If you didn't don't waste the money because it is the same 
 thing with more enemys. I also don't like it switching which side your on in the middle of your 
 campain. This makes it confusing to some people. Just like Call Of Duty you play the USA, Brittish, 
 and USSR.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Buick87GNXv6
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 24, 2005 5:24 pm PT
Review:  I am a big fan of Call Of Duty, so I had very high hopes for the expansion pack.
  I was not dissapointed!
  
  This expansion pack includes 3 campaigns and multiplayer.
  the 
 campaigns are:
  US Army
  SAS
  Soviet Army
  
  These campaigns have alot of intense action.
  Air action, sea action and car action and offcourse 
 tank action.
  
  
  The US Army campaign is set in the battle Of The Bulge.
  The SAS campaign is set in the invasion of Sicily.
  The Soviet Army campaign is set in a couple 
 of places in Russia.
  
  The missions have gotten harder and more intense, so getting cover is fatal.
  
  An example 
 of a US Army mission:
  You start off on a patrol with your squad, and you
  soon find out that you're not the only ones patroling this part of the forest.
  While being chased 
 by Germans you get the HQ and report, then a massive invasion starts.
  
  When you finish the campaign you want more, then it's time to fire up the multiplayer
  and play 
 with other people in different game types.
  
  The grapic haven't improved so much since it's a expansion pack, but they still look really nice.
 
  They have included more weapons for the countries.
  
  The sound in this game are great. Alot of exsplosions and shooting.
  
  The multiplayer is very 
 fun and will keep you busy for many months!
  
  Good Things:
  -Great missions, weapons, models and sound.
  -A great multiplayer
  -Cool and addictive gameplay.
 
  -And many more!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: maggiisthebest
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 22, 2005 12:18 am PT
Review:  United Offensive revolutionizes what an expansion pack should be.
  Most expansions are fun, but the whole point is to just get money off of the people who buy it. 
 But in United Offensive it seems that Activision actually put a LOT of work into this one. Trust 
 me..... I would even buy it for 40-50 dollars. It is THAT good.
  
  Call of Duty United Offensive brings so much more to the plate. There are many new levels, all 
 well designed and well put together. You first start out as an American in the Battle of the Bulge, 
 and intense firefight near Bostogne, Belguim. You fight off hordes of tanks and enemies to hold 
 what little ground you have and wait for reinforcements. 
  
  The next campaign is the British campaign. Which is definitely my favorite. You start out in a 
 bomber 30,000 feet high in the sky with breathtaking scenery and an amazing atmosphere. You have 
 to defend your plane from the enemy who wants to shoot you down. The fighting is very intense and 
 you can see several fellow bomber planes get blown up right in the middle of the sky. As the fight 
 progress's you can notice damage being taken to the plane. When you start out your plane is in 
 perfect shape.... but after the level you can see major holes all over the place.... ripped apart 
 wings..... holes in the floor.... and many other little details that just make the experience more 
 exhilirating. This is probably my favorite level in ANY World War II game and I promise whoever 
 plays it will be amazed. But sadly your plane cannot hold up and you get blown out in the sky..... but 
 of course you parachute to your safety and meet up with a British SAS squad (who is lead by Major 
 Ingram... sounds familiar doesn't it) . 
  
  The next campaign is the Russian levels..... you encounter sever firefights on ground and in tanks. 
 You also aquire the Flamethrower which is extremely fun to use.
  
  Although the graphics aren't up to par with Doom 3 or Far Cry they still look extremely good. There 
 are a lot of clipping issues but its not a big deal and in no way does it effect the experience 
 of the game.
  
  The sound is also very very good (on par with the Medal of Honor series) and makes you feel like 
 you are in the battle. Bullets will be zooming over your head...... explosions will be everywhere.... and 
 at sometimes music will be blasting in your ears. It is truly great.
  
  For only 30 bucks I HIGHLY recomend United Offensive. It will probably take you about 8 hours to 
 finish..... almost feeling like a brand new game. It is definitely worth your money. And if you 
 don't have the first Call of Duty make sure to buy it and enjoy that along with this amazing expansion 
 pack. This is the best single player add on since Opposing Force for Half-Life.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: barnell
Rating: 8.9
Date: Aug 12, 2005 4:01 pm PT
Review:  I love this game when I first started playing, the detail where great and very well done levels. 
 Once I finished the game the replay was not as good. With the expansion it came back to life but 
 I found it a lot harder. I did play the game all the way through 2 times but I could not do it 
 on the hardest difficulty. The multi player keeps it a live, my deck at school had battles every 
 night and talk about all the time. I didnt really get into the online play to the last few weeks. 
 But I fined nothing better then battling 46 peoples. I also think you have a very good range of 
 weapons to choose from. Plus the abilities to fined and use large weapons. Over all I think it 
 a great games, and gives it a 9 out of 10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rudyfan04
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jul 24, 2005 11:57 pm PT
Review:  This game is not as good as the first one, but it still rocks. The campaign is basically the same. 
 Of course with different missions, also it is a bit longer. There are many new actions and items. 
 The biggest things are probably the tanks. Even though personally I don't like the tanks in MP, 
 it is still fun. There are also now smoke gernades, and satchel charges, which adds to new tatics 
 and experiences. You also can now sprint, which is extremely useful in MP. There are many new maps 
 for campaign and MP. These maps will keep you entertained for hours! This game is not as good as 
 the original but still a game you should definately get! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AustinOnline
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jul 16, 2005 1:15 am PT
Review:  This game is possibly the best online FPS ever! I'm talking, better than Counter-Strike and all!!! 
 It is way better than Call Of Duty's Multiplayer!!! I have seperate review peices below.
  
  The graphics in this is not bad, not the best either, but definetly a game that if you havent done 
 the online play, your missing out on a big peice of gaming of 2004. But as of 2005, it is a classic 
 that will be remembered!
  
  The gameplay in this is outstanding, I dont like most user created maps though. They are a little 
 stale. But the new maps are auesome as well as the old!!! And you have things above your character 
 now to actually tell from far away if he is your guy.
  
  I wonderful game all over. Get the Box Edition Deluxe Set and it comes with:
  
  -Call Of Duty
 
  -Call Of Duty Multiplayer
  -Call Of Duty: United Offensive
  -Call Of Duty: United Offensive Multiplayer
  -Call Of Duty Official Soundtrack
  -Call Of Duty 
 Official Prima Guide
  -Call Of Duty: United Offensive Official Prima Guide
  
  All of this for $40!!!!!! Get it guys! It's worth it. It'll give you hours of gaming!!! BUY IT...... OR 
 ELSE!!!!! lol [h3] BUY IT [/h3] 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MasterMarcus
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jun 9, 2005 5:24 pm PT
Review:  Call of Duty's expansion showcases everything for any WWII fan, offline and online alike, depending 
 you're not exceedingly fetishist vis -- vis realism. Although the character modeling, some texturing 
 and smoke effects add a cartoony feeling to the construct, the overall blend remains surprisingly 
 dramatic for a rare intensity achieved in a video game. The American missions in Belgium are fast 
 and furious, though short; the English ones above Holland ( great aerial battle ) , countryside 
 and Sicily add a variety; to finally conclude with a Russian extravaganza around Koursk onto a 
 train station.
  
  The single player campaign, around 6-7 hours long being considered a tad short by some critics, 
 could be objectively appreciated to the point if not rightly displayed in terms of gameplay length. 
 The action compensates all the way, and still boast climactic battles vociferously scripted, thrown 
 at you in a flurry of an enforced trial & error system, which is arguably the side effect depicted 
 by many observers. Nonetheless, the gaming experience provided through various trenches and bottlenecks 
 gives the player enough stress to take care despite conventional mechanics, if not cosmetic squad 
 tactics.
  
  As such, the player advances through linear layouts. Don't expect nifty upgrades upon the original. 
 The multiplayer maps, some being larger, still offer a lot of fun online competitions - even some 
 tactical depth the SP doesn't allow, after some sweep of the areas.
  
  Admittedly, this is probably the best looking modified Quake III engine - ever, while being one 
 of the last. They did miracles with it, and though it shows its age, some wonders are brilliantly 
 displayed from zooming to new smoke effects ahead exploded tanks, walls and such. Again we can 
 experience outright the same texturing over the original, nicely toned and colored, for perhaps 
 a ''bland'' melting overall which ironically adds some realism to the cartoony features, just pleasing 
 to the eyes. It surely took some skills at retooling - if not wits - to present to us, again, gritty 
 WWII battlegrounds ( plus one air mission ) so nicely rendered. But yes, as we advance in 2005 
 towards the next gen, there are already far superior engines unleashed in the market.
  
  Audio coding is superb, especially gun sounds & bombardments which perfectly recreate the thundering 
 inferno of a battlefield. In all this, the musical score just seems inundated for an adequate background 
 presence.
  
  If you liked Call of Duty, and chances are if you're a war shooter aficionado, be prepared for 
 no-holds-barred in this storming add-on of scripted sequences and decent online replay value. No 
 one fights alone, alright, but believe us you're the main man. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Wilfred_Owen
Rating: 8.9
Date: May 26, 2005 6:55 pm PT
Review:  Call of Duty: United Offensive, expansion to the best WW2 shooter, is just as great as the original. 
 Maybe just a little bit better, the missions are much more intense than the original Call of Duty 
 and a bit more challenging than its predecssor. But its single player suffers from the same problem 
 as the original. Its only 6 hours long and by the time I was done playing all the missions it left 
 me wanting more. 
  Nothing really changed in the multiplayer either. Though the addition of vehicles makes the game 
 more interesting its still boring and unstable online. And as with the original within an hour 
 and half it left me looking for another game to play.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: xbxjetraider
Rating: 9
Date: May 14, 2005 4:38 am PT
Review:  If you loved Call Of Duty, and craved more of that enticing experience, pick the expansion pack. 
 It adds 13 more campaigns in the same order. The game even adds a new varient. You start the British 
 Campaign in the air, shooting down Nazi combat fighters to defend your bombing vessel. Again, the 
 realism is their with the intense combat, this is a great game, and perhaps one of the best in 
 it's genre.
  
  Call Of Duty: United Offensive is a solid game. It adds to the original Call Of Duty... It's fun, 
 and it has it's challenging moments at the same time. Soldiers screaming at each other, arguing 
 over pety things as why the Germans are in so many numbers... at times you'll feel like just throwing 
 down your gun and giving up, but becarful, if you're a Russian soldier, your comrade will shoot 
 you for running... Truly a masterpiece, pick it up if you liked the original. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Pchickenman3
Rating: 9.2
Date: May 10, 2005 10:34 pm PT
Review:  I am going to be reviewing the game Call of Duty: United Offensive. Below are the categories I 
 will be reviewing the games in.
  
  Gameplay: I was kind of confused on the gameplay, I downloaded the demo on GameSpot but, it took 
 me about 20 minutes to learn the buttons, but when I first played it, the gameplay was awesome!
 
  
  Graphics: I was amazed! Even though I have a gaming computer which makes the graphics wonderful! 
 But it was only a 2x graphic card, and the graphics were still tremendously great! When I was trying 
 to blow down a building, flying planes that were on fire were flying accross the sky, and fire 
 was everywhere, I was just so amazed that I could hardly speak! Great graphics!
  
  Sound: Sound, not as good as the graphics but still good, I could hear the planes coming through 
 the sky really great, and the enemies shooting back, I was still pretty impressed of what the sound 
 quality of Call of Duty: United Offensive had.
  
  Value: Value was great, I got a lot of feedback from this game, and was very impressed of it, i 
 did not think that it was going to be as good as it was.
  
  Reviewers Tilt: I also give it great feedback and just a wonderful game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RichardW331
Rating: 9.1
Date: May 8, 2005 8:55 pm PT
Review:  COD + UO are a great pack together, many great things are involved in the game, with a great environment 
 with great detail. An excellent multiplayer as well as single player. With COD coming out earlyier, 
 it missed the Ragdoll physics unfortunately but that isn't enough to put you off the game at all
 
  
  The game is most certainly challenging along with great realistic effects with guns and out turn 
 view. There are brillaint maps to engage in which keep you happy all the way till the end of the 
 game, none of the maps make you bored, that is unless you really cannot get through a mission. 
 UO, adds tanks and extra cool new weapons. Driving the tanks are a real essense in the game itself.
 
  
  If your a true fan of 1st person shooters then this a must have for your collection, its at the 
 top of the list for anybody, and it has been all the way.
  To me this is the best WW2 ever shooter, but rumors of COD2 look fasinating to bits 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stormmaster
Rating: 9.6
Date: Apr 17, 2005 11:43 pm PT
Review:  Call of Duty: UO is the CoD expansion pack. The first CoD was (And still is) amazing. I finished 
 the first call of duty in, I think it took me to about 10-15 hours, i thought it was a little short, 
 and I loved the single player, it has alot of really exiting moments, but not enough. the game 
 took me, i think 8-9 hours. So then you look, 40-100, WAH? Well, hah, the multiplayer is in my 
 opinion, better than the single-player. Some times, you'll get into a match that is more intense 
 than the Single-player. If you have CoD and you havent gotten this yet, one question... WHY!? this 
 is a must have. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: smbius
Rating: 8.8
Date: Apr 15, 2005 7:47 pm PT
Review:  Call of Duty needed an encore so this is one good encore. From looking at the back of the box, 
 United Offensive (UO) seems like a really short campaign - 13 missions. However, each of those 
 missions are very long but not drawn out. There is always a good pacing of intensity that you'll 
 never get sick of it. UO also changes in scenery and in scale. CoD does what it does best in the 
 original campaign, bring a good intimate WWII experience but UO takes it to the next level and 
 makes the whole campaign seem much more grand in scale. Right when it seems like the mission has 
 ended, the game keeps moving on and the next objective is much crazier than just blowing up the 
 bridge. UO also takes the player to the air. Without giving too much away, the game doesn't sit 
 you down in a bomber's turret the whole time. You'll find yourself feeling like you're a part of 
 the family on that plane by physically moving from turret to turret and extinguishing engine fire. 
 You'll even get a chance to open the bombing bays. Very cool stuff.
  
  UO is one of those games that are a blast to experience. It doesn't have crazy physics that most 
 games have nowadays but it is sure damn fun taking out soldiers by the droves. Body count is at 
 an all time high in this campaign. There are sequences in the game where hundreds of soldiers traverse 
 across the battlefield. It can leave you in awe long enough to get shot in the face which brings 
 me to another aspect of the game - difficulty. Call of Duty's 1st campaign had a comfortable range 
 of difficulty but UO makes the assumption that you have finished CoD. UO doesn't hold back when 
 it comes to throwing endless waves of soldiers through your door and these soldiers aren't bad 
 shooters either. F5 (quick save) and headshots will be your best friend in UO since pretty much 
 every enemy is a sharp shooter.
  
  UO ups the ante in graphics as well. You'll see pretty textured trees, and mountain sides but probably 
 the most impressive I've seen from this expansion has to be the lighthouse stage sneaking mission 
 where you'll be able to see a whole side of an island from high ground. The sound hasn't changed 
 from CoD but hey, it's an expansion not a new game.
  
  UO is a great expansion that will hopefully demonstrate that expansions can really improve the 
 experience of the game rather than just giving more of the same.
  
  radcastro. com 
::::::

::::::
UserName: maximus_2
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 12, 2005 3:36 pm PT
Review:  Best WW-II Ever
  This game is soo addicteve.
  This game make you relly feeel that you was ther, that you
  relly fought agenst Germans.
  Evry 
 this soo realistic and addicteve. I spend more time on this
  game than any other.
  In this game it made me feel that 
  feeling of band of brothers.
  I didnt wanted this game 
 to end so 
  I played it ony for 60 min a day.
  becouse it soo great and realistic.
  I wish that there will be more games like this one
  Now I cant wait for Call of duty 2
  I wish 
 that it will be even better.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: SpaghettiDiner
Rating: 9.6
Date: Mar 30, 2005 11:21 pm PT
Review:  Hey, i love this game, anyone will if your looking for a shooter with action this is it. I love 
 WWII and this game delievers some awesome game play. The realism is ok, not the best but pretty 
 darn good. Its not the realism though its the MP gameplay, i have had the game ever since it came 
 out and i still get in 8 hours or so a week. Its a solid game with ongoing gameplay. People have 
 created sound packs and modifications that keep the game fun and exciting from codfiles. com . So 
 for me there is no end to this game!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shoot_em_up123
Rating: 9.7
Date: Mar 22, 2005 8:35 pm PT
Review:  Now they have made a expansion for in my opinion the best online WW2 shooter game ever created 
 for any system. Call of Duty was a very good and succesful PC game. Now the creators have made 
 an expansion for this game. 
  Not only have they made some fixes in the story making it a longer and better single player expirence, 
 but they have also made more maps and other things to the already awesome online experience. So, 
 lets face it the single player mode though very fun, was a bit short. But with this expansion pack 
 it made more levels for the game making it a better game. Also they have new weapons. They now 
 have the chance to carry a machine gun with you and you can just deploy it down and you can just 
 open up on enemies.
  Now the new advances made in the online play. I have already talked about all of the different 
 and new weapons available but also now you can drive vehicles. Yeah, thats right now you can press 
 the action button and drive a giant tank. Not only can you ride in tanks but now you can drives 
 jeeps and other things. Also they have added many new maps for this expansion pack.
  Overall Thoughts: This has just made a great game even better. I never thought that game could 
 get any better but now with United Offensive I have become a believer. You can not shy away from 
 a great game like this. If you have a good computer and DSL for good online play don't be afraid 
 to pick this and Call of Duty up now. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 19734739732876576485538515389630-elLOCOmutha
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 21, 2005 6:36 am PT
Review:  You can say well this game is all run and gun but NO..... its what you make it and you have to be 
 on your toes to survive this battlefield....
  If you are going to buy any new WWII shooter in the future.... do not waste your hard earned money 
 on BIA but instead wait for CoD2... you will not be dissappointed as you will be in Brothers in 
 Arms.
  Everything from singleplayer to multiplayer will give you hours of quality gameplay which will 
 make it worth your buck! Be a sniper be a rifleman be a machine gunner you choose and work in teams 
 or by yourself this game is about teamwork and if you choose you can work out tactics with clanmates 
 and other plyers to overwelm you enemy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kenbenpang04
Rating: 8.9
Date: Mar 14, 2005 1:14 pm PT
Review:  This game successfully shows the chaos of WWII, what a great job! The sound is awesome, graphics 
 is not bad and the gameplay is intense. However, the gameplay is scripted, so you will get bored 
 after beating the game. This is a good expansion to call of duty, in multiplayer, you can control 
 tanks, and there are some new guns like G43 and portable MGs. I think this game will be better 
 if it adds realistic effects and tactics.
  This expansion is too short, you just need to spend a normal shopping time to beat the game (just 
 several hours) . And you play as a little soldier that you cannot command other teammates and follow 
 the dangerous orders given .... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: -Hans-
Rating: 8.8
Date: Mar 3, 2005 1:13 am PT
Review:  Gameplay
  
  Pretty much the same as Call of Duty. You play as three soldiers. One American, one British, and 
 one Russian. There are three campaigns, much like the original. This time though, the battles are 
 more intense. Many opponents are thrown at you at once. This can be fun, but once again, its all 
 scripted. This means the single player campaign is good for one or two plays. Once again, its all 
 in the multiplayer. But there are some things to be said. The vehicles are nice to have, but they 
 overpopulate the maps. Not only that, but they dont control very well. The addition of vehicles 
 takes a lot out of infantry battle. Once again the British get the short end of the stick.
  
  Graphics
  
  Not much has changed from the original. But the effects are brilliant. From 
 the nades exploding to the bullets hitting the ground... all looks fantastic.
  
  Sound
  
  Once again, not much has changed... but this is a good thing seeing as the first had superb 
 sound effects.
  
  Value
  
  I wasn't loosing any sleep for this game. It kept me occupied for a while, but I eventually went 
 back to the original Call of Duty for my WWII multiplayer needs. 
  
  
  
  Overall it's a good expansion. If you liked Call of Duty, you will most likely enjoy this. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kaziechameleon
Rating: 9.7
Date: Feb 22, 2005 4:45 am PT
Review:  this game is well, an expansion pack, and yet it feels like a full fledged sequel or something, 
 the campiagn is far better, the level design is superb, the AI is spectacular, the cinematic feel 
 is still there, but you loose some of the linearity, a great thing,
  
  what's great:
  
  The Russian campaign will blow your mind at times. the sound is so engrosing, ricochets, aa fire, 
 tracers zooming over your head. Great atmospher, definately the best to date in a war game, posibly 
 the best of any military shooter. gameplay has evolved, being the quikest gun won't save you, it 
 will only help. AI that is varied, and more realistic than any war game to date. wonderful set 
 pieces. i almost forgot about the multiplayer, yeah well it's only like battlefield 1943, its that 
 good, really the multiplayer has jumped up a notch. flamethrower. new weapons. so much more.
  
  WHAt's not so great:
  
  The vioce acting isn't bad, it's just not wonderful. the Story 
 telling hear is only ok, its really pulled apart because the game focuses more on gameplay experiences, 
 rather than an overiding sense of purpose. the seperate campaigns also make it feel a little disjointed, 
 could use some cinematics. graphics , yeah it's awsome for the quake three engine, but look at 
 the battlefield 2 engine, wow, look at farcry wow wow. gameplay feels good but in reality its not 
 varied, only the settings change, the gameplay is, take cover and snap shoot the enemy, rinse and 
 repeat. some really canned animations.
  
  ok, lets talk. first, i finished this game today, i bought it like a month ago, and rushed through 
 it to the russian campiagn, beat the first mission, then put it down and didn't pick it up for 
 a long time. today i got back from class early and started agian, this game is awsome. The original 
 you could run and gun the whole game, i did on hard, yeah well hear it don't work so well, i did 
 it on normal, and well there is a thing called cover, and you need to use it this time around. 
 yeah take to your cover, use the lean keys ( i had already unprogramed them, so i had to reprogram 
 em) , get a bead on your enemy, duck behind cover agian, then pop out and take the perfect snapshot, 
 this game makes the sniper rifles, and more specificaly the just plain semi, or bolt action rifles 
 worth using. this snapshoting technic is familiar to anyone who paintballs, when under fire, pop 
 your head out to basicaly lock onto your target, then the second time u pop out you pop him, your 
 taget, right in the face. this technique will become your life blood, especially in the russian 
 campaign. the level design is so much better than it was in the original, why, because it alows 
 you to move around alot more, especially in the russian levels, yes you still have to go that way 
 and complete that objective, but allow for an example, one level you are assaulting this trainstation, 
 but in order to do so you must lead your tank collum through some city streets to get there (you 
 and about a hundered other russians are on foot) , now you have a chioce, use the tanks as cover, 
 and move with them, move freely on either side of the street huging cover, or, take to the buildings 
 on the right side of the street, they are open, and from there, you have better cover from the 
 machine gunners, and heck you can sneak up on some riflemen. its these little freedoms that make 
 the game so wonderful. they aren't always there, but when they are you love em. The AI hear is 
 great, your comrades take to cover, well the veterans, and scaredy cats do anyway, i've seen the 
 overly brave ones run face first into machine gun fire, and that isn't a mistake either, it's just 
 the way that those guys play out, every now and then you'll come across a guy who isn't taking 
 to fire as well as you are, he'll be hudled up and asking for his momy (ok maybe not, but it's implied) . 
 the germans flee grenades, and use them well, these silly germans don't take to cover as well as 
 my eleat russian\us\british comrades, but that doesn't make them any less inteligent, they'll flank 
 you when your"hiding"with your sniper rifle, they'll run up to you and unload into your head. the 
 use of tanks, and planes and halftracks in this game is awsome, if you see a half track roling 
 up, blow it up, before it unloads its reinforcements, tanks, are so powerful, when you hear one 
 coming you find your self screaming, i didn't see any panzerfausts on the way in, where are the 
 !@#@$#$#%@$#% are the panzerfausts. yeah as predicted the british campaign is the low piont of 
 the game, but atleast this time around you have that real cool bomber mission in the airplians, 
 it's so rediculously unreal, but so rediculously fun. the american campaign has a battle of the 
 buldge portion that has you juggleing rocket launchers, the new machine gun, and your trusty sniper 
 rifle. your so buissy sniping machine gunners, mowing down infantry, and blowing up the tanks and 
 halftracks, that you hardly hear the incoming bombers that realeave you of your worries, this game 
 has so much aw, and wonder packed into it i love it. the american campaign is so much better than 
 in the original, but the most improved campaign is still the russian campagn, i love the whole, 
 capture the trianstation group of levels, when you run throught a burning building smoke is pooling 
 on the ceiling, it's awsome. they have a flamethrower in this game, but you won't see it till the 
 russian campaign, you get to use if for like a second, but there is this spectacular moment later 
 in the game, i was following my comrades and they rush ahead of me as i look for ammo, i run through 
 a blown up building to catch up, and amd met with a wall of fire, i look around and there is my 
 team, behind cover as two flame thrower guys are painting the town red. i was like $H! T, and then 
 i burned up, the second time i was like $H! T, and then i shot the first guy, and ran over to see 
 if i could get his flamer, and then the friend of his i forgot about roasts me. really this game 
 uses the flamers as setpieces, and the instance i described above, as i viewed it, blew my mind, 
 i was like, "this $h! t is real, it's striat out of saving private ryan or something". Oh yeah and 
 i still need to remind you, this is a expansion pack. now for the multiplayer. well some would 
 argue, it's a lag fest with the vehicles, people this is the quake three engine, it has always 
 sucked online, remeber rtcw, yeah it was fun, at like 2 fps. but some servres run well, and they 
 are glorious, i love the city levels with tanks, running through a building to find the panzerfaust, 
 then consiquently having the tank fire through the window to take you out, well it's like living 
 the last 20mins, of saving private ryan, or as close as you'll get. also if you like this game, 
 go on ebay or amazon used, and buy band of brothers, it to is awsome. the multi player has all 
 the new toys, and feels like battlefield 1943, it is pretty awsome, and ten times better than the 
 previous games fun, but 2d multiplayer. i can't beleive that both the singleplayer and muliplayer 
 can be so good, and it's only and expansion pack. one other notibal lack in the game would be the 
 canned animations when you shoot someone, or when they die, you get alot of experiences where you 
 shoot someone in the sholder, and they will grab there stommack. also the total lack of ragdol 
 physics really takes away from the power of artillery, or grenades, or any thing. so with all the 
 carnage happening around you, it feels as if it desperately needs some physics.
  
  LETS BREAK IT DOWN
  
  GAMEPLAY:
  much improved, tactics are actually useful this time, just 
 wish you had squad control or something, but alas the AI is good enough to take care of it's self (we 
 will just have to wiat for Brothers in arms) the vehicle portions aren't real at all, but they 
 feel awsome. the added weapons, and online play improvement are so great that i give it a 
  10
  
  GRAPHICS:
  this game uses the tried, and in my opinion failed, quake 3 engine, the 
 developers stretched it so much, that the game looks, well better than i would have expected, thanks 
 in part to great particle effects. but the quake engine doesn't work well online, as we've seen 
 with past games like rtcw, and now with the addition of vehicles to the online component we seen 
 the framerates dropining yet agian online, yes i have a bleeding edge pc, and yet it makes little 
 difference. the character models look good, but are animated poorly often, such as when someone 
 runs bent over, they look like they are bobeling alond, kind of funny like. any way, the graphics 
 manage, but they are the low piont in the game design if u ask me, but alas this is a expansion 
 pack, and it can't change graphics alot, and the developers did add some awsome particle effects. 
 so i give them a resounding 8, they did wonders with the technology the original game was built 
 on.
  8
  
  SOUND:
  Spectacular effects are combined in this game to create that war torn atmosphere we all know and 
 love from previous war games and movies. but this game takes it even further, the machine guns 
 barking in the distance, the constant dron of AA fire is acompanied by actual AA going up in the 
 air, you can look up and see it in the russian campaign. there are ricotes, and tracer rounds buzzing 
 past you, artillary takes out your buddy sending shrapenel into you, that is what sets this game 
 apart, the sound is used to add to the setpiece experiences that we all know and love. with the 
 exception of some only ok vioce acting this game earns it's 
  10
  
  VALUE:
  Wait do we really have to think about this, it's a sequels worth of value in a expansion pack. 
 for only 20-30 you can have yourself and entire games worth of value, it's one of the best deals 
 ever next to chronicles of riddick. a must buy
  10
  
  REVIEWS TILT:
  i don't know what that is, but i really love this expansion pack, it's as good a expansion pack 
 as frozen throne. really this game takes the best of the original and sores over it.
  10
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: mrwiggles11
Rating: 9.1
Date: Feb 20, 2005 5:59 am PT
Review:  
  Call of Duty: United Offensive is very well done and adds bits and bites to the original classic 
 game. United Offensive adds 3 new areas for the single player campaign and it adds many new multiplayer 
 maps that are tremendously fun to play. The single player aspect of this game is basically a further 
 installation of missions and events at different locations in the war. The game starts of in a 
 nice icy woods scenic backdrop and ends with you battling in the skies for superiority. The singe 
 player campaign is not too long but seems a bit more challenging then the campaign in the original 
 game. However, you may save whenever you wish so do not fret. The campaign offers tones of action 
 from jeeps, on foot and planes in the air. You, along with your squad will try to attack various 
 German/Italian establishments and try to put them out of action permanently,
  
  The aspect that makes United Offensive a great expansion is its multiplayer component. The new 
 online component offers some new match-types and a large amount of new maps. The maps are adapted 
 from the single player campaign and they are greatly compatible for online action. The most noticeable 
 addition to the multiplayer component is that tanks, jeeps and other vehicles can be geared up 
 into action. This addition makes the online mode more fun and more dangerous then ever. The only 
 thing missing is an air-attack but the game does not suffer from this minor draw-back. I noticed 
 that the maps created for United Offensive were typically larger than their Call of Duty counterparts. 
 This is obviously due to the accommodation of installing tanks and other mobile artillery. The 
 game is a mixture of Battlefield 1942 and Call of Duty. Put 2 and 2 together and you get a lethal 
 game that lives up to the hype surrounding its release. The mobile vehicles are very responsive 
 and clearly have faults and strengths. Activision has taken that extra step and delivered a mobile 
 warfare to the Call of Duty lore and has done so very proficiently.
  
  There are other additions to the game that are different than the original Call of Duty. Your character 
 is now able to sprint to evade various enemy attacks and tank onslaughts. This sprint function 
 is very helpful when you are in a state of panic and do not know where you are getting shot from. 
 You can either crawl or run for it, I prefer the latter! The game has added some new sets of pistols 
 and machine guns. Portable machine guns have also been installed. These weapons do not allow you 
 to shoot with them until you are prone and have set them up for action. They are very strong but 
 obviously not reliable in tight situations. The flamethrower is a new addition to the game and 
 can be either very annoying or very powerful (depending on who is holding the machine) ! Grenades 
 can now be cooked and launched much farther than in the previous game. In addition to cooked grenades, 
 satchels and smoke grenades are also implemented. Satchels are useful in taking out tanks or totally 
 massacring a camping soldier. There packs of bombs launch a strong attack and can really do some 
 damage. Bazookas and Panzers can really do some harm and are mainly useful for destroying enemy 
 tanks in the area.
  
  One neat addition is that after performing various goals (like destroying an enemy base) or simply 
 killing a lot of the opposing teams forces, you are promoted to higher ranks in command. Each 
 upgrade gives you certain things like additional grenades, smoke grenades, binoculars or extra 
 ammunition. When you attain the captain command you are able to use your binoculars to perform 
 an air raid on the opposing teams side of the battlefield. Obviously this can be totally misused 
 if an individual launches an air-raid on a spawn point but that is just part of the game. Regardless 
 of spawn killers, the addition is a nice incorporation. A nice little addition is the creation 
 of shell shock in both the single player and multiplayer components. When a grenade explodes 
 near or at your feet, you will either die, or getting swarmed with ringing noises in your ears. 
 Also, you will have trouble moving and find yourself much more vulnerable to enemy fire. This is 
 a nice addition that adds an extra touch of realism to the game, making it an excellent depiction 
 of real life scenarios. 
  
  The online function is a lot of fun. Whether you are dodging enemy bullets with the opposing teams 
 flag in hand while a friendly provides cover fire, or if you are brave to rush into an enemy base 
 and take it out, the game provides a large spectrum of fun for a varying amount of brave or reclusive 
 soldiers. Whatever your rank as a Call of Duty gamer you should try out this newly created online 
 mode with new additions and tank warfare. If you have purchased Call of Duty, you would not lose 
 out much if you bought the expansion pack which offers just as much intense action and multiplayer 
 savagery. 
  
  The gameplay is exactly the same as its predecessor. United Offensives tanks and other armored 
 vehicles are very easy to handle and can do a high degree of damage. Foot soldiers have a chance 
 against tanks due to satchels and bazookas. The game flows very well and the controls are really 
 responsive to your demands
  
  The graphics are well done and clearly deliver the same successful formula as the original game. 
 The game uses the same engine and it runs successfully on a large variety of computers. The graphics 
 are not the greatest part of this expansion but they are definitely not a bad part at all. The 
 game still looks sweet and it really engages the player into a life-like World War II setting.
 
  
  The sound is just as well done as the previous Call of Duty game. Attention to detail is clearly 
 taken as a priority by the game developer and the popularity and realism that the sound emulates 
 makes the game all that more fun to play. United Offensive takes what was best from the Call of 
 Duty sound scheme and adds pints and touches here and there to establish an all-around audio masterpiece.
 
  
  Overall Call of Duty: United Offensive is a very good expansion pack which delivers variety in 
 the single player and multiplayer components. The single player missions are a nice addition to 
 the game but it is obviously the multiplayer that has friends urging others to try this game out. 
 The game offers intense action just like its original and it adds new features and multiplayer 
 options to its repertoire. United Offensive is probably the best expansion of 2004 and it will 
 definitely not disappoint any player that enjoyed the original Call of Duty. People rarely purchase 
 expansion packs because original games usually offer the most punch to the game experience. However, 
 United Offensive adds this punch and adds another blow to attain a clean knockout as one of 
 the most genuine, worthwhile and excellent expansions of recent years.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: BlackFunk
Rating: 8.4
Date: Feb 5, 2005 4:11 pm PT
Review:  Finishing UO this is an excellent expansion, although even shorter than the original. Pumped up 
 a little more the different elements that gave COD it's thrilling action, you are definately in 
 for a ride. The visuals again offer enough to make it believable although at some points the Q3 
 engine is starting to show its age. The audio on UO again is the one that makes this baby work. 
 Team mates will support you, but will not accomplish the goals for you. My only misgiving about 
 the team mates is that their support function could hardly be called that. On more than one occassion 
 I've had flanks covered by team mates, only to be killed by enemies coming from so called covered 
 sides. Expect the single player campaign to feel like it's team based but focussed almost entirely 
 on your ability to acomplish goals.
  
  Recommended, especially now that COD and COD: UO are offered for good money. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DBZAddicted
Rating: 8.2
Date: Jan 25, 2005 7:19 am PT
Review:  First off, Call of Duty: United Offensive is still keeping the supremacy of greatness that just 
 began from the original game Call of Duty. But unfortunately, I couldn't find a lot of differences 
 from the game.
  
  Gameplay: Hm.. the game still uses the old engine, so even if you shoot some kind of materials, 
 they won't fly away or get blown away. I believe that part is pretty outdated. And there is no 
 difference in the systems, so it all just looks same as much as the original. Oh well, what can 
 we expect from the expantion pack? But still, I think those things could be better.
  
  Yet, the game is still an exciting game to play, waiting for air fighters to blow up the anti-tanks, 
 using anti-aircrafts to shoot the aircrafts down, and there is a mission that you can shoot the 
 German aircrafts down in your own aircraft. That mission is pretty challenging, revolutional, and 
 very attractive. And also beautiful (imagine yourself flying over the skies of 40's..!!)
  
  Graphics: A little bit outdated, but I believe it doesn't really bother you. Graphics of water 
 are amazing anyway.
  
  Sound: You will hear aircrafts crushing, people getting shot, shooting sound, people screaming, 
 tanks making an assaults, etc... Probably sound is having the most important role to make the game 
 great. 
  
  
  This game is not really the best, but pretty enjoyable game for anyone who liked Call of Duty. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Razzi
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 17, 2005 1:49 pm PT
Review:  This is the expansion for the call of duty game wich was gameof the yeare 2002 i think.
  Well the new things in this game is som new weapons and you can drive tanks and cars.
  
  I 
 think that this tank thing isn so good but thats just me right???
  
  The new weapon are very good. they are cool and fair. 
  
  Activision should do a new cod with 
 the new thing in UO but without the tanks and cars.
  
  or??
  
  The single Player gameplay is realy cool and intense. Yea they have succeded with that part. The 
 coolest mission is britain when you are a gunner in a bomber.
  
  The End
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ShraZ_Zy
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jan 15, 2005 11:59 pm PT
Review:  The expansion pack United Offensive is a must own to the ones who loved Call Of Duty. It start 
 of really intense as you being fired by tanks coming out of from all over the place. The voice 
 castin are really good and sometimes gives you a few giggles on what the troops are saying. The 
 sound is marvelous if you have creative soundblaster 2 ZS 24bit. Yuo can drive in this game many 
 vehicules jump on an airplane gunner and bunch of other stuff. I like the idea once you've completed 
 an whole assignment it debriefs it like a cinematic trailer of what you've just accomplished. The 
 graphics are well done; expecially the explosions. I found this game really hard to start with. 
 I had to retry the first mission a couple of times on medium. The multiplayer component is a boost 
 to the game.
  
  In conclusion you feel like you're in the frontline with your team squad. A well worth game to 
 play. Call Of Duty is way better than any MoH games. I hope they make another expansion or sequel 
 to the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mp5slipknot
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jan 8, 2005 9:14 am PT
Review:  The United Offensive expansion takes the greatness that is Call of Duty and takes it even higher. 
 This gives the game several new innovations into its engine and take it several steps further, 
 however there are a few downsides to this.
  
  GAMEPLAY: This does an admirable job at maintining what made the original game so great and even 
 be able to take it a few steps forward. one of the biggest additions is the ability to now use 
 vehicles in multiplayer. Whats great is that the vehicles dont make it really unbalanced, as you 
 are more vaunarable in a tank then you may think, because your an easy target to any soldier holding 
 a weapon like a Panzefaust. Anouther addition is the ability to sprint for a period of time, in 
 which you can run at a hastly speed for several seconds, then catch your breath for when you need 
 it again. Overall the gameplay continues to be amazing and truely remarkable.
  
  GRAPHICS: The expansion has made a few graphical improvements, such in the explosions have been 
 improved to a degree. The level design is also a bit improved as they seem to have a bit more depth 
 in them.
  
  SOUND: THis game retains everything that made the previous one also very appealing audiowise. While 
 it dosen't have nothing much new in terms of audio other then new lines for the voices, its pretty 
 mucht he same. But hey, does that really matter?
  
  VALUE: This game is just as well made as the other. Multiplayer is fun, and single player is engaging 
 and intense. Only one problem though, the single player campaign in very short. The game has about 
 maybe at most 8 hours of gameplay. While the single player missions are indeed very well made and 
 fun, still the overall campaign is just to short.
  
  OVERALL: This expansion continues the tradition that made Call of Duty so great and takes to several 
 more steps. I know i repeated this a lot but its true. Despite its short campaign, the multiplayer 
 should still keep you playing this for many many months. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Timintheflesh
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jan 7, 2005 3:49 am PT
Review:  This is a great expansion pack, filled with action! Online play is so fun, there are tanks, people, 
 and jeeps all over the place! There are a few different kinds of game modes. There is Base Assult, 
 Domination, Team Deathmatch, Deathmatch, Search and destroy, and HQ. I love this game, and anyone 
 who knows good gaming will love it too! The Campain is also very fun, just like the first call 
 of duty's is. Online you can have at least 40 people in one game. The Maps are great, I perfer 
 the urban combat. To Conclude this review, Call Of Duty United Offensive is a great expansion pack 
 and if you have the first Call Of Duty, Buy United Offensive, you wont be dissapointed! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kwonsoo
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 5, 2005 3:47 pm PT
Review:  I'll be brief in my review. I had a lot of fun playing the single player; but only because it wasn't 
 real life. The battles were chaotic and challenging. Many of them were near-suicidal. I realize 
 this is not real life. However, this expansion allows you to take part in much larger battles that 
 make you feel less like the one squad winning the war and more like 1 of a 1000 poor jerks stuck 
 in a mud-hole fighting together. The experience was great. The British missions were cool, but 
 did not quite have the same epic feel as the American or Russian missions. 
  
  This expansion was totally worth the money. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Worf101
Rating: 7.1
Date: Dec 24, 2004 5:03 pm PT
Review:  I enjoyed "Call of Duty" immensely. It was the first really "First Person Shooter" I'd ever played. 
 And while I found it difficult I also thought it was great great fun. The best thing I liked about 
 it was it's coverage of ALL the Allies in the ETO not just the Americans. I loved playing as Russion 
 Soldier facing the bulk of Nazi forces with inadequate weapons and homicidal commanders. "United 
 Offensive" takes all I liked about the original game and ratchets it up another notch or two in 
 the process.
  
  Graphics:
  Outstanding for a game based on the Quake III engine. An engine which, while servicable, is quite 
 long in the tooth. Nothing like "Far Cry" or any of the other big boys on the block but not Doom 
 I either. Things are rendered well and beautiful enough for you to enjoy the countryside as you 
 fight over it.
  
  Sound:
  There's a lot going on here when you're fighting the Axis powers. Bombs, bullets, concussion effects, 
 shouts, screams, groans, airplanes. The game throws as much sound at you as it does enemies. Lots 
 of good sound effects however I didn't find ti drectional enough for me so that I could tell when 
 enemies were behind me.
  
  Gameplay:
  Where the original C. O. D. threw enemies at you in almost manageble numbers U. O does not. You are 
 under the gun literally from the opening bell. You've bodies and bullets flying by your head from 
 all angles. Judcious use of cover and tatics is called for. Unlike the original you don't end up 
 in Moscow but in the liberated city of Kharkov. You do get to be a gunner in a B-17 but this portion 
 of the game is pretty acradish and any players of IL2 Sturmovik will be throwing up at this scenairo. 
 
  
  The battles are very intense, the last one in the game is just this side of suicide no matter what 
 level you play it on. My major gripe with this game is the scripted nature. You can vary so little 
 in the game there's little or no replay value to it in single player mode. The enemy comes at you 
 the same old way every single time. After playing a virtually "open ended" game like "Far Cry" 
 I found U. O to be a tad boring and predictable. 
  
  Multiplayer:
  Not my cup of tea. But perhaps its the main reason for buying this game.
  
  Conclusion:
  
 A great add-on to a good game. I enjoyed it but it's linear game play makes it very limited for 
 longterm enjoyment.
  
  Da Worfster 
::::::

::::::
UserName: keyf
Rating: 9.2
Date: Dec 21, 2004 3:07 pm PT
Review:  I totally enjoyed Call of Duty and United Offensive has followed the tradition superbly. I am a 
 big fan of FPS's, but I tend to not enjoy games that pit you against mutants or insects. I perfer 
 a more realistic and historic senario and the Call of Duty series defintely fits the bill. The 
 battles are intense but not insanely difficult, gameplay is standard FPS, graphics and sound are 
 excellent. I highly recommed this expansion pack to anyone who has CoD. If you do not have CoD 
 wait until they are sold in combination. My only complaint is that they are to short, but they 
 do leave you wanting more. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: alimat
Rating: 9.4
Date: Dec 20, 2004 11:49 pm PT
Review:  This Expention Has a lot of Modification From the Orginal Game.
  
  I Shocked when i first Played it
  its just Amazing game I Really Entered The Real War through 
 it and the music was Exelent and its Really Really Get Into it and I was almost Cry When in The 
 Orginal game in the Russian First Mission "Death or Victory" and the music come through its Really 
 Sad Scane.
  
  the Story Line Was Exelent too Speacially in the Britans Missions When the Player Fall From The 
 Plane and Fall on a Tree that Kept him up there and countenued with the Bretain Ambush
  
  it Takes Half the day to Play that about 12 Hours for the Compaigns
  
  The Graphics Wasn't 
 Good as The Modern New Game Graphics and That Because the Engine is the Same in the Orginal Game 
 "Call of Duty" and its ok 
  
  And all I Can Say
  
  Its Amazing Game and Worth to be Played 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cjhrules
Rating: 3.5
Date: Dec 20, 2004 3:06 am PT
Review:  Call of duty is one of my favorite games. Great graphic and great gameplay. The game really made 
 me think that you were actually fighting in the war, it was completely amazing. When I saw there 
 was an expansion I got very, very excited . 
  
  After playing the game for many hours I must say I am very disappointed. This game couldn't have 
 been made by the same team that did the original. This expansion is awfull! The first thing that 
 hit me is that the mission are very linear. It really feels like tou are playing some kind of "rally" 
 game were you can't walk outside the road... But the worst bit in this game is the enemy AI. It 
 only attacks you and not the other soldiers in your group. There is one mission when you walk into 
 a church. Your friend burst in and walk to the middle of the church. Then they just stand there. 
 Thinking the coast is clear you walk towards them. Then you get shot in the back by a enemy soldier 
 who could easily have shoot any of you friends. It's really just sad... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tory66
Rating: 9.2
Date: Dec 11, 2004 3:01 am PT
Review:  I thought Call of Duty was the best war game i had ever played and with the expansion pack its 
 close to one of the best games i have ever played in my life. Sequences like escaping from the 
 harbor in a boat with others chasings you puts you right into the game.
  Sitting in the side seat of a motor cycle never felt so good. Everything was done better. The new 
 flame thrower is really powerful and its really realistic, u can see the gas tank and other features. 
 The game models real world weapons amazingly. Oh and the multiplayed moved me from halo for the 
 pc's multiplayer. The multiplayer is fast and never boring, vehicles add lots of new ways to frag 
 and destroy asses with ya online buddies. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nunyerbiz
Rating: 8.8
Date: Dec 4, 2004 6:05 pm PT
Review:  Fans of the original game, go out and buy this expansion pack! It will be the best $30 you've spent 
 towards video games in a long time. United Offisive keeps everything that was great about the original 
 game and adds a few tricks of it's own. 
  
  The single player, while not as lengthy or consistent as the original Call of Duty, packs in a 
 good amount of memorable missions and scripted battles. Even the "on rails" vehicle type sections 
 play well and are very exciting. (The B-17 gunner mission being a great example of how to properly 
 pull off the correct "on rails" dynamic) . The overall playtime seemed slightly short, even for 
 an expansion pack. It would probably take a Call of Duty veteran eight hours or so on a mid-range 
 difficulty setting. I would have liked to have seen another 2 to 3 missions that would bump the 
 playtime up to the 10-12 hour range, but I definately don't feel cheated by what the singleplayer 
 United Offensive provides. 
  
  Multiplay adds vehicles into the mix along with a slew of new small arms and maps. The overall 
 vehicle implentation is very well done and while the vehicles can be powerful they don't tend to 
 overwhelm games completely. The new maps are all solid for the most part and compare favorably 
 to the original CoD's selection. 
  
  If you are a fan of the original you will find nothing to complain about with the United Offensive 
 expansion. The only exception would be is if you are looking to just play the single player campaign. 
 While the campaign is very well done, it's over relatively quickly. This expansion is a great overall 
 value for the money, but only if you plan to utilize everything it offers. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ferrari2004
Rating: 9.8
Date: Nov 30, 2004 4:12 am PT
Review:  Call of Duty is one of the best WW2 games ever. No other game had such intense battles as CoD. 
 Call of Duty: United Offensive adds to the the great CoD experience and more when you reach the 
 Multiplayer portion. CoD: UO adds more game modes and vehicles, which turn the battle around really 
 quick, espescially when you use a tank. One new mode, called Domination, is really fun to play 
 and is quite familiar to another game **cough** Battlefield 1942, which I think is one of the worst 
 and most boring games ever, well lets get back to CoD: UO, Dom in CoD: UO is awesome, to win you 
 must control all the flags, which is really hard to do. Your team must have coordinated attacked 
 to succed. Thats all im gonna tell you right now. Go buy this game and find out more by yourself. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: loismustdie89
Rating: 8.2
Date: Nov 30, 2004 2:56 am PT
Review:  I was pretty disappointed in this game. I thought it would expand on the epic secenes of the original 
 but doesn't match up. Don't get me wrong this is a great series but still find myself going back 
 to play the original.
  
  To me this game went wrong on two things:
  1. The single player was great in the CoD, yet this game feels too linear and dare I say, boring. 
 
  2. Vehicles. WHAT? Yes, CoD was a great infantry soldier experience with one tank mission. Now I 
 have to use vehicles all the time? Then face them in multiplay. To me tanks vs. Infantry is unbalanced 
 making the game somewhat frustrating at times.
  Both these points I attribute to handing the title over to a different developer for this expansion.
 
  
  All in all it is not a bad game in any way, it just doesn't seem like the original which was great 
 on so many levels. You should still pick up United Offensive since Call of Duty is my favorite 
 game of all time I may have set expectations way high for an expansion pack. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sk8wnec
Rating: 9.7
Date: Nov 26, 2004 5:45 pm PT
Review:  Yes it maybe the Quake 3 engine. Yes almost any video card can run it. But its so addictive. The 
 gameplay maybe a repeat of CoD, but the UO multiplayer is great. Think of BF1942 without have to 
 walk literally 8 minutes just to die in a couple seconds and start all over again. The tank controls 
 are easier than BF. The action is tight and the weapons are so great to use. Not overly complicated 
 and doesnt take forever to reload. You don't get stiffed on missions like most expansion packs. 
 In fact it almost seems like you get more missions in UO than the original CoD. The sound is great. 
 Maybe not as great as MOHAA, even though I didnt think it was that great, but to me it sounded 
 good for the game. Overall great buy and worth every penny. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bidybag
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 19, 2004 4:11 pm PT
Review:  This game is much better than Medal of Honor. This game is very intense and constant action. The 
 single player was very short and if you play it on an easy skill you will finish it very quickly 
 but if you play it on the hard skill it will take you ages to complete and most people wont even 
 complete it. This is the same as Call of Duty but it has a few extra weapons, and different multiplayer 
 modes which makes this game exellent for muliplayer. This game requires good tactics and teamwork 
 in multiplayer and single player. I recommend this game to anybody who likes First person shooters. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: clearman90
Rating: 8.8
Date: Nov 17, 2004 11:26 pm PT
Review:  this game really suprised me. with all of my other experiences with expansion packs, it felt like 
 they ruined the game. thats not the case here. 
  first the single player. gray matter managed to capture the same intensity as the original, but 
 the original is a little better. the best campaign by far is the british. the game is very hard. 
 even on the easiest difficulty setting i found myself dieing quite a few times. theres also the 
 dumb rule when the enemy always aims for you, so its usually a good idea to let others go in first. 
 the game ran fine, maybe a hint of slowdown here and there. its also very short. short and sweet.
 
  now the multiplayer. the new modes are domination, which is a bf 1942-style control the map, base 
 assault, which involves blowing up a building then planting a bomb in it, and capture the flag, 
 which is self explanitory. domination is the worst mode, its not bad, but the others are better. 
 base assault is fun, but the best is capture the flag. nothing beats that rush u get when u grab 
 the flag, speed away in a jeep with tanks shooting at u, praying that u dont get hit. if u wanna 
 play modes from the original, go back to it. a 10 player deathmatch on a huge match with tanks 
 isnt fun at all. the vehicles r a warm welcome. so are the new weapons. you'll be hooked, especially 
 in a good ctf game. the game usually runs smooth, though it can get laggy with a lot of players. 
 
  overall, this is a great game. call of dutys singleplayer is better but united offensives multiplayer 
 is better. if u have cod, u should definitely buy this. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wizeguy525
Rating: 9.8
Date: Nov 16, 2004 12:16 am PT
Review:  This game is not simply a clone of the venerable Medal Of Honor series. Call of Duty is a great 
 game that offers much more then MoHaa does. I used to play MoHaa exclusively for a LONG time, since 
 it first launched. I bought all of its expansions too, Speahead, breakthrough, et al. CoD also 
 has a new expansion out that allows the use of vehicles which is pretty neat to say the least. 
 ALl in all, this game is an evolution, but not revolutionary. If you like the WWII FPS, this is 
 the game to have at this time, HANDS DOWN! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FlankerDFMax
Rating: 9.3
Date: Nov 15, 2004 9:22 pm PT
Review:  Not really a revolution of Call of Duty, but an evolution. And a darn good one! More action, more 
 shooting & blasting, tweaked graphics, and a great sound track. If you liked CoD you'll like CoDUO. 
 Stand by for increased mission difficulty though; the easy level in UO qualifies as the middle 
 setting in CoD, and so on. Quite a bit of "harsh GI type language" saw me through the difficult 
 spots though (that and an unlimited save scheme) ! LOL! This game is definitely at the top of the 
 squad based "scripted shooter" genre. The MP remains essentially the same as in CoD, which is great! 
 Buy this game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: VanGoghs_Ear
Rating: 9.3
Date: Nov 12, 2004 6:47 am PT
Review:  If you liked the original, this is simply more Call of Duty goodness. Suffers the same weakness 
 of being too short, etc, but fortunately it has all the great things Call of Duty came with. I 
 didn't think anything could top some of the most breath-taking missions that the original had to 
 offer, but alas, United Offensive has awe inspiring missions in its own right.
  
  For more value, the multiplayer modes have been updated to include vehicles and a Battlefield style 
 mode. Call of Duty and United Offensive are such short games though, if the original had come out 
 with UO and the COD all as one complete package, I would've probably given the whole package a 
 much higher score. As it is though, both editions are great, and a must have for any WWII shooter 
 enthusiast. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheSlanger
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 11, 2004 10:09 pm PT
Review:  A great game in every aspect. The gameplay is, like in the original, very addictive and I simply 
 cannot stop playing. The graphics are, apart from a few clipping issues, good and what you can 
 expect from a game of this type. They're above average but not great. The thing that stands out 
 graphics-wise is the animation of the characters' faces. You can see the frightened expressions 
 when you are about to enter an area where you can expect heavy resistance or when you're in a transport 
 moving into enemy territory. The animation of the soldiers movement is a little stiff and they 
 run like the have to go do no2, but this is only relevant in the cut scenes because in-game you 
 have no time to look at things like that.
  The sound is very immersive and you almost feel like you were in that battlefield (not that I would 
 know but...) . All the weapons have characteristic sounds and the music is just right.
  The controls are good. Intuitive and fluent. It's sometimes hard to pickup weapons because you 
 have to point directly at the weapon to be able to switch between the one you're holding and the 
 one on the ground, and that can be quite difficult when you're being attacked from all directions.
 
  When you have completed your tour of duty your missions are summed up in a movie showing all your 
 actions before you are debriefed. This is a nice touch because it makes you feel like you've accomplished 
 something.
  The difficulty is very varying, some missions are just too easy while som are extremely hard. The 
 hardest being, as alwasy, the missions when your objective is to protect someone else while they 
 are performing a special task or when you are escorting someone who is unarmed.
  For the most part the AI works just like it should, with your buddies doing what they're supposed 
 to and all that. But sometimes, and always in pressed situations, the move in front of you or stand 
 up when you're aiming and simply block the view. It's frustrating and you just want to hit them 
 over the head with the butt of your gun.
  It's not a long game. You can easily finish it in about six-seven hours. Even though it's an expansion 
 I crave more.
  
  All in all, it's a great game and if you are a fan of WWII games this is definitely recommended. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Magoga
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 8, 2004 8:49 pm PT
Review:  Call of Duty is one of the greatest first person shooters ever. It had lots of action and excellent 
 gameplay. The United Offenssive Expansion Pack pretty much just brings the game to the next level 
 by increasing the action and intensive combat, the sound remains one of the greatest sound in games, 
 the graphics are great but are aging, and the gameplay is much better. This is one of the greatest 
 games I have ever played! The multiplayer is amazing in this game. You get tanks, jeeps, and cannons 
 from various WWII nations and there are tons of different types of multiplayer matches. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lovegreen
Rating: 8.4
Date: Oct 23, 2004 5:12 pm PT
Review:  There is (pardon the pun) a regular war goint on in the market for WWII-games. The Battlefiled 
 series and Medal of Honour are just a few combattants, and a horde of upcoming titles will enter 
 the fray before christmas. So what makes Call of Duty to anything else than cannon fodder? 
  
  At first its the games' strong singleplayer missions that tains territory. The United Offensive 
 expansion puts os (as the original game) smack-in-the-middle of the filmic actions scenes that 
 we know from Saving Private Ryan, Band of Brothers etc. The adrenalin gets going in the intense 
 missions, that are often almost exact copies of scenes from the mentioned movies.
  
  However, the games best shot is properbly the more lasting multiplayer-part, that also includes 
 tanks and planes, plus a handfull of cool maps to drive them around on. 
  
  With United Offensive the Call of duty-series is certainly not the dullest bayonet in the drawer. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cdrewsr388
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 20, 2004 7:24 pm PT
Review:  This is a must buy for anyone who likes WW2 games. If you liked CoD, you will love this game. The 
 singleplayer is alright, and adds allot of variety other than just on foot missions. The real kicker 
 is the multiplayer. The addition of tanks and vehicles make the MP very intertaining. With many 
 modes of play to choose from and lots of maps, including ones from the original make the replay 
 value go up the roof. It takes a while to get good at some of the maps but all in all the learing 
 curve sin't more than a few rounds of MP. For anyone into WW2 or just multyplayer games this one 
 is for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BlackJohnFlint
Rating: 9.3
Date: Oct 18, 2004 2:52 am PT
Review:  What can I say about the Call of Duty franchise? Aside from a few omissions and minor slips (that 
 only a WWII geek like me would really take note of) it's nothing but quality, and I'm pleased to 
 say that Infinity Ward and Activision have apparently gotten over their squabbling well enough 
 to not only equal the first effort but improve upon it.
  I will say that the single player campaign in UO has not sucked me in like the first installment's 
 did, but only because they went just a bit too Hollywood for me this time. I should qualify this 
 by saying that I have only played through about (I'm guessing) twenty percent of it, but what I've 
 seen so far suffers, IMO, from being just too extreme. An example: in one "scene" I probably personally 
 took out about 70 enemies and half a dozen of their vehicles before completing the mission. I call 
 that ridiculous. 
  That said, there's no doubt about the quality of the production and the intensity of the gameplay ---it's 
 top-notch.
  
  Now the good stuff. The multiplayer has been improved in several ways, which was a surprise to 
 me, to be honest. As anyone that played extensively in the first game probably knows, there was 
 a good bit of griping regarding technical support for mulitiplayer (namely for user-created content 
 and such) , and that had me worried about the chances for UO. There is no doubt, however, that Infinity/Activision 
 stepped up and made good things happen for the expansion. The maps are excellent and overall much 
 larger than previously (relieving alot of the "run and gun" cramped feeling of the first) , the 
 new weapons additions are generally great (armor and light vehicles, anti-armor weapons, flamethrowers, 
 etc) , and the gametypes are varied and well-done. Tons of fun to be had online ---now we just need 
 to see some user-created maps start rolling in to relieve the eventual monotony of the stock maps.
 
  
  Bottom line: if you liked the first COD you'll love the expansion, and if you're into shooters 
 (especially WWII and multiplayer kinds) you owe it to yourself to pick up COD and it's excellent 
 expansion, United Offensive. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hunter1947
Rating: 7.1
Date: Oct 17, 2004 9:07 pm PT
Review:  Gray Matter has succeeded in making a Call of Duty expansion pack that really puts you realistically 
 into World War II battles. The graphics are truly excellent! The sound is also very good, but rather 
 overwhelming, especially during artillary bombardment. It's hard to hear commands being shouted 
 to you over the din of battle. (Hint #1: Turn on subtitles to be sure to "hear" commands, but understand 
 that they may be distracting in the thick of battle.) Also, the compass that's supposed to help 
 the player find goals is a little too vague, resulting in having to search the area for where you're 
 supposed to go (risking death and reloads numerous times in the process) . Plus, progress through 
 the game becomes too difficult too fast on the "Greenhorn" setting. (Hint #2: Be sure to save often, 
 especially just before a battle or when you actually are able to succeed in achieving a goal without 
 too much loss of health.) (Hint #3: Grab health and ammo whenever you can. You'll really need it!) 
 Overall, it can be a great game to play if you have enough experience, but a lot of hard work if 
 you're not! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SUB_ZERO_basic
Rating: 9.6
Date: Oct 8, 2004 12:11 pm PT
Review:  Call of Duty: United offensive is the best expansion of today, its that good I think the missions 
 in United offensive are more intense and better than the original Call of Duty.
  The graphics good but not Excellent, actually they are starting to look a bit dated now compared 
 with Doom 3 and Far cry, but the graphics are still nice the detail is good. The gamplay is fantastic, 
 when you play any mission it feels like you are there and it is so intense, all the missions are 
 full action from start to finish it never gets boring or the missions dont feel like they repeating 
 them selves.
  
  Multiplayer is one of the better features of the game, the new game modes are brilliant, and now 
 with tanks and jeeps multiplayer is even more exciting, I would say it was better than Battlefield 
 1942 and Vietnam.
  
  If you have the original Call of Duty game and you liked the multiplayer and the missions, You 
 must get this expansion well worth the money and if you dont you must be mad. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: soldierforever0
Rating: 9.3
Date: Oct 7, 2004 6:51 pm PT
Review:  Call of Duty: United Offensive is the first expansion pack of last year's Call of Duty, in the 
 expansion pack you again play as American, British, and Russian soldiers.
  
  Graphics: The graphics are the same as Call of Duty, and that isn't bad, they have remodeled some 
 of the weapons and vehicles though.
  
  Sound: Also just as good as the original's, with some tense music at the right times...
  
  
 Gameplay: CoD: UO's gameplay is tense and engaging, it will keep you on your toes through most, 
 if not all of the missions.
  
  Multiplayer: There are a few new modes on the multiplayer to keep you playing long after you finished 
 the single player campaign, and with the inclusion of vehicles, it just makes it twice as fun.
 
  
  So, if you have CoD, go and buy United Offensive NOW! You won't be dissapointed.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: damstr
Rating: 9.1
Date: Oct 5, 2004 5:04 pm PT
Review:  The main reason i bought this game was to check out all the new features in the game and to play 
 my friends on LAN. This game is very much like the original game but with some new add-ons. Basically 
 this game is an expansion pack.
  
  The new things in this game are new maps, weapons, vehicles and a new campaign.
  
  The new 
 maps are huge! You shouldn't even play some of these maps unless u have a minimum of 4 players. 
 Thanks to the tanks and jeeps in these huge maps traveling from one side to the other is simple. 
 All the maps from the original are in this game too so you want miss out on playing some of your 
 favorite maps.
  
  The new weapons in this game are SWEET! One of the new weapons is a powerful machine gun that can 
 only be fired in the lay-down position or you can set it up on a bunker or a window. These machines 
 guns fire very fast and they have high capacity magazines. All of the different nations have this 
 weapon but its just a diffrerent type. Another weapon that was added is a semi-auto rifle with-out 
 a scope but its really accurate and you can fire it really fast. Some other weapons are more rocket 
 launchers and the flamethrower. You can also pick up demo charges which are used to blow up tanks.
 
  
  The tanks in the game are awesome. if i can remeber correctly there is about 10 different types 
 of tanks. there tanks that are really light amored and they move fast all the way to tanks that 
 are heavily armored and move really slow. Tanks can hold two people- the driver and the gunner. 
 if just one person is driving the tank u can shoot the turret and the machine gun at the same time, 
 so u dont have to have two people to use the tank to its full potential. JEEP: the jeep is pretty 
 basic, just a vehicle to get to places. The jeep has a machine gun in the back that comes in handy 
 quite a lot.
  
  All in all this is one of my favorite multiplayer games to play besides halo.
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: muska23344
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 3, 2004 4:48 am PT
Review:  This expansion is the best WWII expansion I have bought and the only expansion I have ever bought. 
 I don't usually buy expansions but when I do it's because the normal game was the best. So I recommend 
 this game for CoD lovers. Single Play is AWSOME! And I love the jeeps, and tanks and what not. 
 Also the multi-player artillary. Just priceless man. Well I recommend this expansion to CoD owners, 
 its worth it! You will definately play this one over, and over again. The new maps are HUGE, and 
 I love HUGE maps. More space equals more stratagey needed which is what I LIKE! So get this, and 
 be addicted instantly. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gatorman82
Rating: 5.2
Date: Oct 1, 2004 7:01 pm PT
Review:  So far, the levels seem really small with very little flexibility in how you play them. As you 
 wander through the woods, you can often see both sides of the map (marked by minefield signs) about 
 50 feet apart. The levels are so scripted that you have few if any tactical options. Often, your 
 survival through a map seems more luck than anything - particularly when you're on a vehicle. You 
 just ride through enough times until you survive (it does help to memorize the location of upcoming 
 troops) .
  
  In one level, the checkpoint save saved my location right where a bomb was about to go off in the 
 next level. I have yet to pass that level because 90% of the time I restart I get blown up before 
 I have time to move.
  
  Overall, I hate games that make you die 20 times before you find the 'trick' that lets you survive. 
 I felt that the original CoD did a good job avoiding that problem. So far, I have found this expansion 
 to be filled with those types of levels. I doubt I will finish it. I am not enjoying it very much.... 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: montag
Rating: 9.9
Date: Sep 29, 2004 5:24 pm PT
Review:  I found CoD a real revelation. It redefined what games should be with maximum fun and spectacle, 
 but without being impossible. A good game is like ballet with movement flowing, gunfire true and 
 CoD did it. little things like not being able to open doors opens up gameplay no end.
  
  This beasty was exactly what I wanted. More of the same without just repeating what went before, 
 a fine line I think you'll agree but handled well. Just about everything is better but capturing 
 the spirit of the play.
  
  In terms of graphics, the Quake engine still shows that it has quality. Doom 3, good looker with 
 some ok gameplay or CoD with hundreds of things whizzing about? I know where my money lies, but 
 even so those times when you can take a breath it still looks the part.
  
  Sound is what really makes this game for me. With my PC (uber!) it actually makes me duck and no 
 other game can say that.
  
  Valuewise it's an expansion pack so if you own the original it is a cheap slice of gaming pizza.
 
  
  It is the best game I have ever played for one reason... gameplay. You are in the screen, you are 
 worried and my ears hurt! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Epicsoldier
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 25, 2004 1:32 am PT
Review:  This game is great, out and out great. No matter how many people say that there are just way to 
 many WW2 games, this game brings back the fun of it. The single player is great, very great infact. 
 Just like the first one, this expansion has you doing awhole bunch of things. Single player is 
 actually one of the best single player games i've played in alot time. However, unlike the first 
 one, this expansion seems to have certain missions that are really really hard, but you'll only 
 came across a few of these. Not to say that the rest of the missions are easy, but they certainly 
 aren't as hard as these couple of missions are. Call of duty is known for it's multiplayer, and 
 well indeed this expansion holds that up, only now theres tanks, jeeps etc. Which makes the gameplay 
 funner!!, also you can call in air strikes!!. it's awesome. My only problem with it is that it's 
 just so damn annoying that the tanks turrent takes FOREVER to turn itself, and then you miss your 
 shot. however it's just a great game, so any FPS WW2 fan needs this game!. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LORDOderus
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 24, 2004 5:47 pm PT
Review:  United Offensive is everything my clan mates and I wanted in call of duty, this game is amazing, 
 the multiplayer is just awesome, and the single player is a lot of fun as well. My only negative 
 comment about this game is in single player your squad mates are really really stupid, they wil 
 stand there while 20 germans shoot at you and they will run in front of you when you are picking 
 off germans. Other than that I love this game, from the new weapons to the old that are graphically 
 tweaked this game just rocks. Oh yea, there is a flamethrower... need I say more. One of the best 
 additions was the ability to cook nades, which you could do in CoD if you had mods but this is 
 great to have without the modding. The smoke grenades are a nice addition as well, and the sprint 
 button is a great help getting from one building to another quick. If you enjoyed CoD you need 
 to pick this game up, Activision has got another winner on there hands! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sigma8
Rating: 8.4
Date: Sep 23, 2004 5:11 am PT
Review:  The original Call of Duty is considered the best WWII first-person experience on the market today 
 (as of Sept 2004; the upcoming Brothers in Arms may dethrone it, who can say?) . And after a pretty 
 long gap of time, it finally gets its expansion in the form of United Offensive.
  
  United Offensive is actually very good, and can be recommended wholeheartedly to anyone who enjoyed 
 the original game. The missions have a good range of variety, and the sense of scale has been (somehow) 
 boosted, so that battles feel even more intense, larger, with more combatants. Graphics have been 
 tricked out as well, and look noticeably better than in the original missions. Of particular note 
 is a mission near a coastal town where you can see the town far off in the distance, fully rendered. 
 The explosions also seem to pack more punch, and heighten the level of tension.
  
  The American missions that start out the game are well-balanced and intense. They are probably 
 also the most straightforward missions of the game, focusing instead on immersing you into a massive 
 conflict, without really giving you much to do (other than slaughter the enemy in droves, which 
 is naturally great fun) .
  
  The British missions start out with a very well-done B17 gunner sequence, before morphing into 
 a special-forces game. The gamespot review did not like these missions as much (so it seemed) , 
 but they were very well done in their own right. Granted, they seem a bit low-key compared to the 
 American missions preceding them (except for the very hectic B17 mission) , but the slower pace 
 actually allows you to enjoy the scenery a bit more, and there has been an excellent job done on 
 that, so it's nice to be able to smell the roses for a moment.
  
  The Russian missions are similar to the American missions in scope, except with that special Russian 
 propagana flavor everyone knows and loves from the original game. The Russian campaign is also 
 the most complex, mission wise. Sometimes the game was a bit anal about requiring you to stand 
 in a certain spot to receive your next directive, which I could only accomplish competently by 
 relying exclusively on my compass, which breaks immersion somewhat. When a sargeant tells me to 
 come to him for orders, I don't expect to be required to stand directly in his face to receive 
 them, especially when all the other troops gathered around him are a comfortable "bad breath bubble" 
 distance away.
  
  That said, all missions suffer somewhat from anal mission objectives, where you have to stand in 
 a very specific spot, or it's somewhat unclear what you need to do next, but the russian missions 
 combine that with pure chaos, making it more difficult and frustrating. It's not frequent or bad 
 enough to significantly detract from the game, however.
  
  In the expansion, you play through the American, British, and Russian missions, and then you are 
 done. There is no final three missions where you quickly do one of each, as there was in the original 
 game. This seemed to work out a bit better, as it didn't suddenly jerk you around between three 
 different characters and accents.
  
  Finally, the American missions felt well-balanced, the British missions were somewhat easy (or 
 perhaps there simply weren't as many of them, since I finished them very quickly) and the Russian 
 missions could be very difficult at times. So difficulty was somewhat imbalanced overall. But let 
 none of this discourage anyone from buying this expansion. And this was all on "regular" the second 
 lowest (out of 4) difficulty setting.
  
  Also, this expansion is not very long. It's not too short either, but it certainly is less than 
 the length of the original missions. I'd rate it at about 8-12 hours.
  
  This is an excellent expansion that leaves expansions for, say, Medal of Honor, in the dust. It's 
 true that some mission objective difficulties can add some frustration where previously there was 
 none, but the other improvements to the game are more than worth the price of admission! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AbsoluteO
Rating: 9.2
Date: Sep 23, 2004 1:38 am PT
Review:  Just like the original goodness of COD but with even more goodies. There are many new weapons and 
 they seem to complete what COD should have been. For instance, now Russians don't start with Lugers 
 (ridiculous) they, along with the Brits, actually get their own unique pistols. The panzerschreck 
 (sp) is another welcome addition. 
  
  The multiplayer seems to be very new. Instead of quick paced, close range grenade fests, the levels 
 are much bigger and vehicle friendly. Like a hint of Battlefield 1942 flavor added to the mix. 
 The problem with the vehicles right now is that they are sluggish and difficult to maneuver around 
 things. However, it ends up being pretty realistic, how do you expect a Tiger Tank to corner? :P. 
 Anyways, the multiplayer has some great potential, and after a patch i have a good feeling that 
 it will really rock. 
  
  The single player is lots of fun. It's like the original COD so you can be assured you'll get to 
 do many fun things. The battles feature a whole lot more soldiers though, so this game is a bit 
 more demanding than COD. Especially with a few more graphical effects. The problem with the single 
 player is that it's so short. I beat it in about 8 hours i'd guess. Still, it was fun, and the 
 multiplayer is the main thing here. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 75thDeadMan
Rating: 8.9
Date: Sep 21, 2004 7:20 pm PT
Review:  This is COD at its best. The single player is fun, but short and can very choppy if u don't have 
 a super computer. Multyplayer is where the fun really is. The maps are now much bigger, which forces 
 many people to use rifles which mostly solves the run and gun n00bles. The tanks and jeeps are 
 a little diffiuclt to master, but you should get the hang of it after a few trys. Out of the 11 
 new maps, I only found Cassino to be disapointing. If you are in a clan, this game is espically 
 fun. It dones't get much better with two clan members in a tank being covered by infantry as you 
 mowing down nazi scum. The best addition to the multyplayer is domination which is basicly dod, 
 with bigger maps. My only real complaint about multyplayer is that there are some spawn bugs, and 
 the game can get a little choppy. Also on one or two maps there is still problems with run and 
 gun n00bs, but hopefully these will be adressed soon. Overal this game is a must have for any COD 
 owners. Its definatly another years worth of fun play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Xiaor
Rating: 9.1
Date: Sep 21, 2004 5:47 pm PT
Review:  UO is just a very well thought out expansion. The first COD was released and in the beginning weeks 
 the game began to grow and grow in popularity. Well United Offensive trys to expand on the things 
 we loved about the original and add a few things to the game to raise some eyebrows.
  
  Well UO Multiplayer exceeds in raising eyebrows as it goes with a little of the Battlefiled theme 
 without going all out. It adds jeeps, tanks, anti-tank guns etc to the game and increases the map 
 sizes by 2 -3 times what the original maps were. Which for some can be a little frustrating as 
 they loved the small and intense matchs in the original multiplayer. 
  
  But it's diffently safe to say that even though COD : UO trys something new, they did it very very 
 well. The sizes of the maps now fit great with the maxed out 32+ ppl servers. It feels more like 
 a real war, plus it's not as crazy as BF, as you dont have to be worried about planes and ships 
 bombing you. Just tanks shooting shells at you. The mix between the tanks and the foot soliders 
 is done perfect. The tanks arent over powering nor are they to weak. It's a great balance that 
 adds even more intensity to an already intesne game.
  
  The single player campaign in COD UO is got the same base as the first, expect theres a pile more 
 scripted events, which can make some ppl happy and turn other off. In my case, i loved it, most 
 of then add to the drama of the battles and make the areas more intense to fight in. As far as 
 the missions go, theres around eleven of them and they are all insane. The amount of guys that 
 you have to fend off at times seems limitless but it adds to the drama of war and a more epic feel.
 
  
  The graphics in UO havent changed much at all, except for the special effects, including smoke, 
 explosions etc seeing a smoke grenade go off for the first time is going to put a smile on your 
 face, as it looks very good.
  
  In general, COD: UO revives it's original. Gives a great face lift to COD, that any previous player 
 of COD should get his hands on. Overall a top notch expansion!! I highly recommend! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RLJSlick
Rating: 9.1
Date: Apr 17, 2007 9:14 pm PT
Review:  Call of Duty is one of the most amazing games Ive ever played! The game inserts you into battle 
 with such depth and realism, that I always walk away with the game feeling as if I was truly there. 
 Im a huge Mental of Honor fan, and after playing that game I thought, you cant get more real 
 then that, but then I played the first Call of Duty, and I was completely blown away (pun attended) . 
 United Offensive continues that trend with new battles and new weapons. In this game you get to 
 be a gunner in a B-17 Fly Fortress, or as the British call it, Fortress 1. You, as did the real 
 gunners, are put into in an impossible fight for your life, trying to take down as many German 
 fighters as you can. The battle is totally intense and you man need to take a shower afterwards. 
 The graphic and game play are the same as COD, you have a assortment of guns and bazookas, and 
 the neat thing about COD, you have team mates that seem to have a idea what is really happen in 
 the battle. As, again, like COD, this game is really tough, you will be doing the missions over 
 and over again, to get through it. The sounds are amazing, and if you have a 5.1 Dolby surround 
 system, its incredible. This is a must have game, if youre into this sort of thing! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ANSteve
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jun 14, 2006 3:16 pm PT
Review:  United Offensive brings the most detailed, intense, diverse, and immersive expierence the genre 
 has seen to date. Sadly, most of United Offensive can't live up to the American campaign detailed 
 above. Assuming you have read the Gamespot review I'll point out a few extras - namly graphics, 
 difficulty, and multiplayer.
  
  The graphics in Call of Duty are average at best. While the particles, detail to the enviornment, 
 and lighting are fiarly well done - better than average the texture resolutions and polygon counts 
 are far to low. If you take a look at last year's Call and Duty and then glanced back here you'd 
 be shocked to find that United Offensive actually looks worse. Now, in the year of Doom 3 and the 
 Source engines its hard to believe a fair graphical game would get a downgrade a year later and 
 be expected to compete.
  
  United Offensive is much more difficult than Call of Duty (the original) . I died probably under 
 30 times over the course of Call of Duty's 24 levels but on the same difficult level (which would 
 seem to be a good fit for an expansion, and note that this level cannot be change) I died at least 
 200 times in United Offensive (probably more like 300 or 400.) This is mainly due to poor level 
 design and being trapped on a bad quicksave. Overal the frustration component is what brought down 
 United Offensive's score.
  
  Lastly I need to give you a heads up on the multiplayer aspect. Its been called a mix between Call 
 of Duty and Battlefield - and thats true but its a mix of weak points. The gaemplay compared to 
 Call of Duty has been slowed down and relies less on teamwork. The teamwork component is almost 
 nonexistant in domination mode and cannot be found to (and yet it required) on base assault. Overal 
 the multiplayer plays slower and is more of an individual quest - all the while using a horrible 
 old graphics engine that has been slowed down and is done no favors thanks to large map sizes and 
 vehicles aboud.
  
  As far as United Offensive goes, I was expecting the best expansion of all time, but was sadly 
 dissapointed by gameplay issues and poor graphics. If the entire game play like the American campaign 
 sans the difficult then it would have been the game I expected. Sadly the Russian and British camapign 
 really show off the weakness in graphics and difficuly while losing the story and theme of the 
 Battle of the Bulge in favor of bland S. O. E missions and stop-and-go Russian fights, 
::::::

::::::
UserName: aaronmykyta
Rating: 9.6
Date: Sep 19, 2004 3:01 am PT
Review:  Too make things quick: Call of Duty: United Offensive is a great expansion and is worthy of the 
 Call of Duty name.
  
  The original Call of Duty shook nations by storm with its highly addictive gameplay, fast, intense 
 battles, and a game that makes you feel like you are part of the action! Now, Activision and (not 
 Infinity Ward, unfortunately and fortunately) Gray Matter have made a expansion to the Game of 
 the Year which we all know what it is titled: United Offensive. 
  
  Gray Matter has added a lot of new things to the expansion, most noteably vehicles. You are able 
 to drive jeeps with machine guns on the back, motorcycles, tanks, and even a bomber! This new mechanics 
 make the single-player and multiplayer versions of United Offensive very addictive and fun. 
  
  Well, speaking of the single-player, the game revolves around WWII (like so many FPS this year) . 
 You play as the three Allies: American, British, and Russian. Your enemy, just like the original 
 Call of Duty, are the Germans. The story starts out as the Battle of Bulge, and goes on to feature 
 how all three countries tried very hard to fight the war. 
  
  Many weapons, old and new, are featured in United Offensive. Some new ones are the Bazooka, which 
 is the American version of the Rocket Launcher. In Call of Duty, You only got control of Panzerfausts, 
 which are the Germans version of the Rocket Launcher. Both are featured in United Offensive. Many 
 old and favorite weapons are back such as the thompson, M1 Garand, MKII Sten, M1A1 Carbine, and 
 more. One thing that takes United Offensive away from other WWII FPS is that you can pick up enemy 
 weapons. Some games if you run out of ammo, you can only use melee attacks to kill your enemy, 
 but United Offensive, just pick up the enemy's MP44 and you're on your way! Like I said above, 
 melee attacks are present in United Offensive. Melee attacks are using the butt-end of your rifle 
 or handle to just plain WHACK! your enemy. Which is most fun.
  
  One thing that made Call of Duty such a success is the intensity of combat. United Offensive makes 
 no changes. Allied and Axis soldiers are running everywhere, trying to get cover. Many soldiers 
 are running onscreen at once, which may make any computer, even if it is high-end, probably slow 
 down to try and keep up with the action. The AI in the game is fantastic, just like in Call of 
 Duty. Enemies run to cover, blindfire, use a vacant MG42. I put the difficulty 'Hard' in this game 
 because if you're not smart, you'll end up dead. You will have to find cover and peek around corners 
 to survive. Running around madly while firing everywhere will waste your ammo and most likely get 
 you killed. Remember, you're teammates are around you and in war, no ones fights alone.
  
  The graphics in the game are an improvement over Call of Duty. Textures are more vibrant and run 
 more smoothly. Character faces and the environment is way more detailed than in last years game. 
 The levels, by the way, are huge! Seriously, the levels are way more bigger than Call of Duty and 
 luckily you have vehicles helping you to cross your way around the huge maps. The game takes a 
 Battlefield 1942 approach by making it just an all-out war! 
  
  The sound reminds me of the Medal of Honor series: Always excellent! Gunshoots feel powerful and 
 accurate, Rocket Launchers of any kind have the sound that they want to destroy whatever is in 
 their path. This is one of the biggest things of United Offensive.
  
  Overall, Call of Duty: United Offensive is a great expansion but if you've played plenty of Battlefield 
 1942, Joint Operations: Typhoon Rising, or just any FPS game for way to long, this game might get 
 stale. But, if this is your very first time playing, you'll be amazed. Simply amazed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SkullLeader00
Rating: 9.3
Date: Sep 19, 2004 2:13 am PT
Review:  Well I just spent a little less than 10 hours beating it and all i can say is WOW. This game is 
 simply incredible. Call of Duty 1 was one of my favorite games and I could not wait for the expansion 
 to come out. Here is my review:
  Gameplay: Same as the first one so you can't go wrong. This is arguably the best WWII game out 
 there. The combination of the first and second just shows how incredible this company is and how 
 dedicated they are to bring us the best FPS game out there!
  Graphics: Did somehow made it even better. What impresses me so much is the fact that everything 
 so is detailed and it doesn't inhibit the gameplay what so ever. The graphics are a pure joy and 
 they do a great job in multiplayer not letting the graphics make the game choppy.
  Sound: Same as first, I could listen to this all day.
  Value + Tilt: I thought once again this 
 was a little short, but that just shows how hard it was for the developers to make this game ... 
 a true pleasure.
  
  Bottom line: This is even better than the first. I hardly give high grades but this is a 9.3 for 
 sure. The best part is the multiplayer factor. You can go against 40 to 50 players and use TANKS 
 and JEEPS with a whole new number of multiplayer games. The single player game will take you 10 
 or less hours, but i garauntee people will be playing the multi for a very long time to come.
 
  
  In my mind its part of an instant classic 
::::::

::::::
UserName: IrishPunk
Rating: 9.3
Date: Sep 18, 2004 9:49 pm PT
Review:  I didn't hear about Call of Duty until Gamespot reviewed it. I really was into the whole World 
 War II genre in general. From Battlefield 1942 to the Medal of Honor series. It was to my big surprise 
 that CoD got an Editors' Choice Award from gamespot. I bought the game and was hooked. Who wouldn't 
 be with it's great presentation. The second you played Call of Duty you knew this was something 
 special. The intense single player which brought you on three sides of the battlefield (USA, Great 
 Britain, and Soviet Russia) and each campaign was great. It was to many peoples dismay that it 
 ended so quick (not to mention one of the most underrated multiplayer around) that people were 
 dying for more. 
  
  Well Activision answered with the expansion pack Call of Duty: United Offensive. However the expansion 
 wasn't going to be developed by Infinity Ward (as they are hard at work with CoD 2) . It was going 
 to be handed off to Gray Matter. The makers of Return to Castle Wolfenstien. So the matter if it 
 was going to be in good hands was answered. However the question still remained. Could they deliver 
 on bringing more to Call of Duty, while still making it feel like Call of Duty. Many people (I 
 for one) were worried if the focus more on vehicle combat, and more open maps would affect the 
 core game of Call of Duty to much. Well no one has to fear as the expansion is not only good, it's 
 great.
  
  The single player starts you out as an American soldier on a routine patrol during the Battle of 
 the Bulge. However things quickly go haywire when you are ambushed by Germans. You quickly fall 
 back and jump in a jeep using a .50 cal machine gun to destroy any Germans that come in your way. 
 This is a great way to get you into the game, as you don't have to slowly get into the more intense 
 parts. The British campaign starts you off (as you probably have heard by now) in a B-17 (AKA the 
 Fortress) . You are joined mid-flight where the action is just going to start. One thing I would 
 have liked to see is the take off, and then going mid flight. Although this is a very little detail 
 that only a few people would have liked to see. Anyway the gunning doesn't get to repetitive because 
 you are forced to run back and forth between torrents, and occasionally you will get told to do 
 other stuff. The Russian campaign as like the original Call of Duty is probably the most dramatic 
 part of the game. This time you are asked to fight at the battle of Kursk. The biggest tank battle 
 in the war. The game is mostly scripted however I think it works for it, rather then against it 
 because it makes it seem all the more dramatic.
  
  The graphics are not any like Doom 3 or Farcry but for what the engine is, it is amazing. Gray 
 Matter also has somehow squeezed much more life into Call of Duty on the aging Quake 3 engine. 
 The game has a much better look to it. From the dust and dirt that will be blown everywhere when 
 a shell lands in your face to the flame coming from the flame thrower. Plus they upgraded tiny 
 bits of everything. The sound also is also superb. I don't have the best speakers (Logitech Z-640's) 
 but the many options of tweaking sound, and having full 5.1 sound support that many games do not 
 have is great. The graphics combined with the awesome sound provide a very immersive experience.
 
  
  As for the new toys in the expansion, there are many. From the American side they added an anti-tank 
 weapon, the bazooka. Which is a must. As tanks are very popular in the multiplayer. Also the Browning 
 .30 cal machine gun. The British now have a new pistol, the Webley Mk 4 revolver. The Russians 
 have a new pistol (the Tokarev TT-33) , along with the Degty-Pekhotny 28 machine gun. The two probably 
 most welcome additions though are the Russian Tokarev SVT-40, and the German Gewehr 43 semi-automatic 
 rifles. One of the reasons in Call of Duty I found playing American so fun was that they had two 
 rifles, that were both semi-automatic (M1 Garand, and M1A1 Carbine) . So the idea of adding a semi-automatic 
 rifles for the Russians and Germans, is a great idea. However if you are curious why the British 
 don't, there is nothing to worry about. As the Bren is automatic, but is very accurate over long 
 ranges. Not to mention the flamethrower that Gray Matter introduced in RTCW.
  
  Also the grenades now have a cook ability which basically allows you hold a grenade and pull the 
 pin allowing you to throw a grenade and having it explode faster. Also added are smoke grenades 
 which allow you to create a distraction or just get by those lousy campers.
  
  With the expansion Gray Matter also added deployable light machine guns. While the worry about 
 someone camping is a worry, machine gunners, are easily flanked. Also as stated before are more 
 anti-vehicle weapons. To keep the tanks becoming to overpowered you will find panzerfaust, panzerschreck, 
 and bazookas all over the place. Unlike BF1942, where taking a tank out was pretty hard with limited 
 ammo, it is much easier to do so in United Offensive.
  
  The multiplayer in CoD: UO is great. Call of Duty was such a good multiplayer with excellent infantry 
 combat. However with United Offensive's focus seems to be on "Bigger and Better". Well it is exactly 
 that. With eleven new maps already joining the great map selection from Call of Duty you will have 
 a lot of fun learning the inns and outs of them. The three new modes in UO are Base Assault, Capture 
 the Flag, and Domination. They are all wonderful. Base Assault is probably the best of the new 
 modes. Each side starts out with three bunkers, and the object is to destroy them. However there 
 is a certain order in which you have to do this. First the bunker needs to be destroyed, and then 
 infantry have to storm it and plant dynamite. The first team to destroy all three bunkers first 
 wins. Capture the flag is what you would expect. You have to defend your flag while getting the 
 oppositions. Finally Domination is alot like Battlefield 1942's mode where there are a set of flags 
 over the map and the object is to hold them, while getting other peoples flag. To do this you simply 
 get in close range in them, and a timer will tell you how long until it is successfully captured. 
 It works out pretty well.
  
  The vehicles used in these new modes, works out pretty well. The Russians and Germans have one 
 heavy tank, and one medium sized one, and the Americans and British get a medium tank with a jeep. 
 The vehicles don't feel overpowered or underpowered. As for the maps for UO, they are very big 
 and open. With houses/villages over the map. It works out pretty well because of the fact it is 
 easy to ambush an oncoming tank with anti-tank weapons. Or you can find a place to snipe or deploy 
 a machine gun. Again none of this feels overpowered as it is very easy to flank a machine gunner, 
 or get a sniper. 
  
  Also like RTCW, Call of Duty now has a rank system enabled online. You come in as a private with 
 limited ammo, and grenades. As you gain experience for helping complete tasks and killing you get 
 higher in rank which allows you to carry more ammo and grenades, and eventually binoculars with 
 air support for a few moments.
  
  Call of Duty is a superb expansion to one of 2003's greatest shooters. My only major gripe is that 
 the single player is to short, like the original Call of Duty. However it is complimented by being 
 one of the most action packed single player campaigns, and having a great multiplayer that will 
 keep you coming back for a long, long time. So anyone that enjoyed Call of Duty, if you are holding 
 off, don't. You will not be disappointed. Actually anyone looking for a good World War II shooter 
 needs to pick this up along with Call of Duty if you haven't done so already.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: CrazyBrazilian
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 17, 2004 5:55 pm PT
Review:  Im a serious Call of Duty player, currently in a professional team and i see nothing but greatness 
 in this expansion and i think the changes and additions made to the game are a welcome thing.
 
  
  The biggest battles in the war, and they are very intense indeed because they really make you feel 
 like you are in the middle of a big battle. No other game has been able to get this level of tension 
 and gameplay in a WW2 simulation (if i can call it that) . 
  
  Call of Duty had a nice single player campaing, and this time arround the expansion wants to pull 
 you deep in to the action, it does so well but when it comes to value there is one problem, there 
 just is not enough of it. Its not that the game is short, its just very fast paced so it works 
 againts the game, there is no hiding for minutes till you cant get a better position, its running 
 like hell and shooting at angry nazis. There is not one minute where people are screaming and ordering 
 you to go or do something so it can get quite intense on the later missions of the game. The campaing 
 leaves you wanting a bit more but hey thats the roll of "Call of Duty 2"
  
  Now lets talk about gameplay, they added tanks, jeeps and even planes (on the single player at 
 least) these are a nice innovation that add to the tension and to the fun, it was expected from 
 the beggining that they would feel a bit like battlefield 1942. And well they do kinda. I was never 
 a fan of battlefield but these vehicles add some little more realism to the game. Its a big change 
 that will be either hated or loved. Like i said i am not a vehicles fan but i think they blend 
 nicely with the action and dont seem like an exageration. defenitly was not a "Battlefield has 
 it we should have it too!" thing they feel different and play different. Nonetheless they fun to 
 use and will give new life to the games strategies.
  
  Weapons have been added such as the semi automatic rifles. I think this is a good and a bad thing. 
 Rifles in Call of Duty were a skill based weapon. And because of the slow realoading action they 
 were sometimes left behind for a trusty tommy gun. Leave that as it may the new automatic rifles 
 sound an look great. They are something everybody was wanting but they will realize soon that they 
 will grow a little imbalanced in multyplaer games at least.. i mean cmon as a experienced player 
 i can say its like having all teams with garands or better. They hold a lot of ammo and realod 
 pretty fast so i will pick these over any other machinegun any day. The flametrhower is a lot of 
 fun and does add that missing "Man if i could burn those 3 guys in the buker.." Well look no further 
 the game has given you the chance to use this monstrous weapon to your advantage. Mobile Mg's were 
 also missing from the original Call of duty, lets just say that with all these new weapons you 
 really fell like you got a lot of options and you can make a pretty effective battle plan. So i 
 can say that from a tension and realims standpoint these weapons are a great upgrade. You never 
 know what to expect on the next corner. Overall the weapons are well balanced and will provide 
 some nice strategies.
  
  Soundwise the game is as perfect as the first one was, the tension is high the sounds are well 
 done and you really feel like you are in danger... its really something when the classic musics 
 is rolling in. It all feels really good and well implemented allmost like you are a hero in the 
 war. It helps to set the mood.
  
  The new multyplayer modes are fun and so are the maps, such as the domination mode and the base 
 assault games. All this makes for great replay value.
  
  The graphics engine remains mostly the same, a few weapons got facelifts while others didnt, the 
 new ones look great and the effects and polygons used really do look splendid.
  However if you compare these graphics games to the most recent releases you can note a few rough 
 spots.
  
  All in all Call of duty united ofensive is a superb action game that is a pleasure to play. If 
 you own Call of duty this is a must have.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: DeathgripZeR0
Rating: 9.6
Date: Sep 16, 2004 3:15 pm PT
Review:  This Blew me away! There wasn't very much hype about it untill about a week before its release, 
 but I have to say this is a truely amazing Expansion. The game takes you strait into the action 
 of WW II, keeping the same addicting gameplay, but adding alittle more... like Vehicles! You can 
 play 3 different campains, russian, american, and british, which each come new weapons and unique 
 vehicles. Each force has the newly added portable machine guns, which can be only fired if in prone, 
 and the occasional hidden flame thrower. The american campain starts you off in the game with the 
 battle of the bulge, and the famous battle at foy. The russian campain leaves you stuck in the 
 biggest battle in history, Kursk, while the british take you over the skies of germany. 
  
  United Offensive gives you amazing single player campains, but thats not all! They have brought 
 back the hardcore multiplayer, but with very big new maps and vehicles. There are 11 new multiplayer 
 maps including the battle at foy, kursk, and Kharkov. You are also able to use new weapons in mulplayer 
 such as portable machine guns and new rifles. New modes include Domination, players must capture 
 all areas located on a map, Base Assualt, player must sucessfully capture and / or destroy enemy 
 base, and Capture the flag, in which players must capture enemy flag and bring it back to thier 
 own base. Over all Call of Duty: United Offensive is and amazing game which im giving a 9.6. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NeotheOne90
Rating: 9.8
Date: Sep 16, 2004 2:10 pm PT
Review:  WHoA! Ok, Call of Duty: United Offensive is to the best expansion pack i have ever played. I have 
 played 'Road to Rome' and 'Spearhead' but this outdoes both of them by a good shot! They are tons 
 of new things to test, have fun with and learn how to work. There are new weapons for every Nationality 
 and tons of new maps! The best part is Base Assault though. Each team gets 3 bunkers to defend, 
 the objective is to destroy all three bunkers before your opponent. It is an awesome teamwork mode, 
 even in PuB servers, especially since it take a LOT of hits to knock the bunker out oft he first 
 stage. 
  
  So, haven't you heard enough? Go get United Offensive ASAP, if you liked or even thought the original 
 CoD was meteoker, you will change your opinion FAST when you pick up UO. (And I dont mean for the 
 worse either!) !!!!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Zadiek
Rating: 8.8
Date: Nov 18, 2006 2:28 pm PT
Review:  This game game is simply amazing! How do you improve on the best ww2 shooter ever? Well developer 
 Gray Matter successfully completed this take and provides us gamers with one of most intense games 
 I have ever played! The gameplay has me sucked into while playing. Call of Duty and this expansion 
 are the only games that I have played that I actually felt like I was there. The action is intense 
 and never stops. Seriously... If you havn't gotten Call of Duty yet.... you better stop reading this 
 and go get it, along with United Offensive.
  
  Graphics: Really Good, considering it runs on the aged Quake 3 engine. The new fx brings lots of 
 new life to the action.
  
  Gameplay: Amazing! The most intense game ever!
  
  Sound: Another highlight to this series... everything from the weapon fx, from the dialog, to the 
 music, etc. is top notch.
  
  Multiplayer: A lot of people though the original Cod's MP was lacking (even though I thought it 
 was great) . This new expansion takes the MP and totally gives it a new flavor, with tons of new 
 maps, weapons, gameplay modes, and vehicles! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: espn182005
Rating: 9.7
Date: Sep 15, 2004 10:30 pm PT
Review:  Now the machine guns can be pick up a lot of new guns and now tanks and jeeps this is a must buy 
 if you liked the first even a little bit get this. Any person who likes war games get this. The 
 guns u get this times are BAR this gun you must deploy on the prone postion. All countrys have 
 a different kind of light machine gun united states have 2 new guns. The russians 3 new guns. United 
 Kingdom has 2 new guns. Germany has 4 new guns. now smoke grenades, satchel charges flamethrowers. A 
 lot of downloadable maps from call of duty are on there. And the multiplayer now u get rank for 
 kills u get So this game is a must have plus all the codes have not changed tpye in the same cheats 
 from last year 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
