-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Call for Heroes: Pompolic Wars
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/action/pompoliccallforheroes/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 It doesn't crash.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Incredibly confusing level design.
 Mind-numbing non-stop combat.
 Virtually non-existent RPG elements.
 Buggy visuals and sound.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Jul 17, 2007
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 2
Critic Score: 2.7, 6 Review (s)
User Score: 2.9, 98 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Strategy First
Developer: Quotix Software
Genre: Role-Playing
Date:     Jun 26, 2007
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Call for Heroes is yet another poorly made Diablo clone crawling its way onto the budget shelf. 
 

  As the back of the Call for Heroes: Pompolic Wars box proclaims, "It is the darkest of times." 
 Well, that's certainly true enough for anyone who installs and plays the game within. This action 
 RPG from Quotix Software hits new lows in mind-numbing combat and ridiculously confusing level 
 design.  

  Judging by the credits at the back of the manual, just two people made this one, and boy does it 
 ever show. The twosome worked off a simple template of making a 3D copy of Diablo, but didn't include 
 any of the depth or catchiness of that classic dungeon crawl. The single-player story (there is 
 no multiplayer) about battling the monstrous hordes of a demon named Pompolic is told solely on 
 the first page of the manual. There are no cutscenes, dialogue sequences, or anything else to tell 
 a tale in the game itself. RPG elements are also MIA. Instead of rolling up characters, you make 
 a one-or-the-other choice between a male warrior and a female amazon, and then bestow a name and 
 a special ability (from a whopping list of three choices per class) upon the hero that you select. 
 And with that, it's off to explore a succession of 15 generic fantasy castles and dungeons.  

 
           Combat is fast and frenzied but incredibly repetitive, and the frame rate can't keep 
 up with the action.      

  And you really do have to do some exploring. Unlike in most hack-and-slash dungeoneering games, 
 levels in Call for Heroes aren't strictly linear. Instead of just cutting down skeletons and goblins 
 from Point A to Point B, you instead must delve into every nook and cranny of each level to discover 
 all of the dark soul artifacts and open up a portal to the next level before a timer ticks down 
 to zero. Initially, this is refreshing. Far too many action RPG dungeon crawls are so slavishly 
 devoted to linear level design that they play themselves, so finally getting an alternative could 
 have been a very good thing.  

  Unfortunately, though, the alternative here is an absolute mess. There is no rhyme or reason to 
 the level design at all, and there is no mini-map tracking your expedition, so you feel like a 
 rat running around in a maze. Levels are also totally isolated from one another, giving you the 
 impression that you're fighting through disconnected battle arenas, not making your way through 
 any sort of story or campaign. Each level seems to have only a half-dozen or so noteworthy architectural 
 elements, too, which leaves you adrift with no distinctive landmarks to indicate where you are 
 at any given moment. Monsters also typically spawn in when you grab a power-up like a health potion 
 or a dark soul, too, leaving you without a sense of place when it comes to specific fights. Welcome 
 to a hack-and-slash treadmill.  

  Making matters even worse is the incessant, stupidly difficult combat. Packs of monsters constantly 
 swarm you, forcing a lot of scrambly fighting and fleeing that further screws up your sense of 
 direction. From the second level on, the number of creatures on your tail is so insane that you 
 mostly just scurry away from them and hope that you happen to pass the dark souls before you get 
 killed. All of this fighting does at least lend the game a certain white-knuckle intensity. It 
 seems like you're forever stuck with your hit points in single digits, leaving you constantly afraid 
 that a random swipe from some goon is going to send you on a dirt nap. Also, you have to restart 
 levels from scratch when killed, which adds even more pressure to the hacking and slashing unless 
 you've lucked out and found one of the rare respawn icons.  

  Still, everything goes on too long and is far too repetitive to be the least bit enjoyable. Each 
 Call for Heroes level takes a good half-hour to finish, and you spend every second of that time 
 either fleeing without any idea where you're going or click-click-clicking on the bad guys. There 
 isn't any excitement in this monster mash, as you're whaling away on just a handful of types of 
 beastie in each level. Creatures in the game nicely blend  
 fantasy archetypes like skeletons and zombies with bizarro beasts like fireball-spewing floating 
 orbs (the spitting image of Doom's cacodemon) and spindly-armed ET look-alikes, but there just 
 aren't enough different monsters to prevent your brain from locking up with tedium. You'll wallop 
 forty or fifty spiders in one level, then a few dozen one-armed zombies in the next, then a veritable 
 Shriners convention of Doom balls in the next, and so on.  

  Variety isn't a part of your arsenal, either. Although you accumulate different weapons and armor 
 along the way, there isn't that much of it. You generally pick up one good new weapon per level, 
 for instance. Battles can be livened up by activating special class abilities that are picked when 
 you level up, or by collecting coins that let you activate god mode for a limited period of time, 
 but you don't need any of that fancy stuff; most of the time you'll be happy (well, "happy" is 
 a relative term) to just click-kill your way through monsters.  

           Smashing skeletons on a snowy evening.      

  "Happy" is also not a word you would 
 use when describing likely reactions to the sound and video. The most memorable characteristic 
 of the audio is the buggy musical score that occasionally flips out and spawns a choppy tune about 
 as melodic as a fat guy belly flopping on a xylophone. This is a shame, actually, as the proper 
 main theme is a great classical piece loaded with moody strings. Sound effects are subdued and 
 nonsensical. Hitting a skeleton with a club results in a wimpywhumpsound like you just hit 
 a sack of wheat with a drumstick. The graphics up the awful ante even further. No collision detection 
 means that you can run right through monsters. Clipping is a frequent problem, and objects flash 
 in and out, especially around water. The camera gets jammed into the back of your head when you 
 venture close to walls. Fonts go overboard when it comes to a gothic feel, making the "N" look 
 like an "R," and the "G" look like something vaguely Klingon. Animations are herky-jerky, and the 
 frame rate turns into a slide show whenever you get more than a half-dozen monsters on screen at 
 once (which is pretty much all the time from the second level onward) .  

  Call for Heroes is about as slapdash a PC game as you'll find in recent memory. There's just no 
 excuse for taking something so half-baked and generic and shoving it into a box on the cheap. Call 
 for Heroes ought to be recalled.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (4 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: godofhell2
Rating: 2
Date: Jul 27, 2008 7:08 am PT
Review:  Positive
  - It's more like Call for Zeroes
  
  Negative
  - It's yet another poor clone of Diablo
  - Dated graphics
  - Gameplay is extremely dull and 
 boring
  - Zero story
  - Absolutely no depth at all
  
  Everyone knows what heroes are for. Heroes normally save things and people. It's not like that 
 in Call of Heroes. The hero should have saved this game if he's really a hero from a terrible score. 
 There's no depth at all in the entire game. This is another clone of one great RPG on the PC, and 
 comparing Diablo to Call for Heroes, you will be given Diablo too much credit. Call for Heroes 
 is zero near Diablo. 
  
  The whole game is a waste. There is almost no story, and don't expect multiplayer either. There 
 is not reason why you should play it, the game seems useless itself. Graphics seem to be back more 
 than a decade and sound isn't much better. Gameplay is dull and repetitive. You find a bunch of 
 enemies and you can't escape or do something to get rid of them. These happen extremely frequent. 
 It's also very short. Story is non-existence and there are no cutscenes in it. Map and level design 
 are really confusing at times and not very specific either. Depth is something not known in the 
 game. Nothing. Combat lacks depth, environments too and the list goes on.
  
  The game should be renamed from Call for Heroes into Call for Zeroes 'cos there's nothing in the 
 game. If you though that Call for Heroes was gonna be a good Diablo clone, think again. Unlike 
 Diablo this lacks depth, story, graphics and practically everything a game of this era should have. 
 Stay away from this game as possible. Call for Heroes, I mean Call for Zeroes is one of the worst 
 games to ever glaze the PC. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nevryn
Rating: 1
Date: Sep 22, 2007 8:12 pm PT
Review:  This game was absolutely awful. How it even passed itself off as a game to be released is beyond 
 me. Calling it a Diablo clone is an insult to all poor attempts at cloning Diablo. It's like calling 
 a sewer rat a chihuahua. The graphics are from around the 80s, the gameplay is exceedingly dull 
 (consisting of clicking the mouse button to swing at an endless horde of the same monster while 
 running around picking up little spiky skulls) , and there is no storyline that I could find. Do 
 not waste your money on this pile of dung. If I could rate it as less than a 1 I would. This is 
 officially the worst game I have played in over a year. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: F0U666
Rating: 1.9
Date: Jul 14, 2007 12:29 pm PT
Review:  I thought this game would be like Rune with levels &amp; attributes... NO WAY! It is just an arcade 
 game where the player is put in a deathmatch map and must find a number of items making some monsters 
 spawn. Everytime you find that item, another apprears at a random location around the map. When 
 you have them all, a portal opens and you can travel to another map. Levels increase too slowly, 
 there's no difference between a lvl 1 character and a lvl 2. The game is very boring... I don't 
 know what to say about it, it's just Abysmal lol... DO NOT BUY THIS GAME 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Pompous_Fool
Rating: 2
Date: Jul 5, 2007 7:28 am PT
Review:  When I picked this up, it looked like a Diablo-ish 3rd person RPG, it described itself as an immersing 
 RPG experience - And they should be sued for fraud!
  
  The first level and the character selection are not encouraging at all, you name yourself then 
 choose from a HUGE selection of TWO, YES, TWO character types, then pick a 'special move'.
  
  You are then told that the WHOLE point of the game is to collect 'dark spirits' or some such, 
 riiiiight!
  The age old formula 'go to the forest and collect X of Y items' jumps to mind and I think, ok.... 
 i played some more and slowly began to realise that there is simply nothing else to do other than 
 collect items!
  I was reminded of the old serious sam, where you just stand in the courtyard and attack waves of 
 monsters, this is the same except unbelievably worse.
  
  I would strongly urge all potential buyers to DROP your copy in the store and buy an awesome RPG 
 like Diablo or Neverwinter Nights! 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
