-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Call of Duty 2
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/action/callofduty2/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Excellent presentation.
 Aggressive enemy AI.
 Makes you really feel like a small part of a bigger war.
 Varied campaign.
 Fun multiplayer.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Performance can chug at times.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Oct 25, 2005
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8.8
Critic Score: 8.7, 72 Review (s)
User Score: 9.1, 15,138 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Activision
Developer: Infinity Ward
Genre: Historic First-Person...
Date:     Oct 24, 2005 &raquo;  
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
If you liked the original Call of Duty, then you're sure to enjoy the sequel, which stays true to 
 the strengths of its predecessor. 

  When the original Call of Duty was released a few years ago, it made an impact both on critics 
 and on consumers, even in the already-crowded WWII shooter genre. Call of Duty's visceral action 
 struck a chord with PC shooter fans, thanks to a well-designed campaign, enjoyable multiplayer, 
 and outstanding sound effects. If you liked those aspects of the original, then you're sure to 
 enjoy the sequel, which stays true to the strengths of its predecessor, while enhancing the sense 
 that you're just one soldier in the midst of a massive war machine. It doesn't really break any 
 new ground, but the game nails the core aspects of first-person-shooter gameplay so well that it 
 doesn't need to.  

          Call of Duty 2 picks up right where its celebrated predecessor left off.     

  As in 
 the first game, Call of Duty 2's campaign will put you in the shoes of a few different soldiers 
 fighting for different Allied factions. You start off as a private in the Russian army, visciously 
 fighting off the invading Germans in Moscow and Stalingrad. The British campaign is unlocked after 
 beating the first Russian mission. For most of these missions you'll be fighting in the sand-swept 
 deserts of North Africa alongside the Desert Rats against Field Marshal Rommel's troops. The final 
 mission in the British campaign sends you to the bombed-out houses and hedgerows of Caen, France. 
 After you're done with that, you'll play as an American corporal in Europe. Yes, you will be doing 
 a D-Day landing, but not on Omaha Beach or Utah Beach, which you've probably played several times 
 before. Instead, you'll be scaling the sheer cliffs of Pointe du Hoc as artillery with the Army 
 Rangers. If you already thought rock climbing was an "extreme" sport, try doing it with artillery 
 and machine-gun fire raining down on you.  

  Each of the game's 10 missions is broken up into a few different stages. If you play the game on 
 regular difficulty, you could blow through it in about 10 hours. Ratcheting up the difficulty a 
 notch makes the game much harder and more tactical (this is probably the experience the designers 
 intended) . Since you'll be creeping and peeking more carefully through all the encounters, you'll 
 lengthen the campaign significantly, and enjoy it more.  

  Breaking up the campaign into several different narrative vignettes arguably weakens the impact 
 of the plot as a whole, although that was never the strength of Call of Duty in the first place. 
 What this does is allow the designers to put you in a lot of different, interesting situations. 
 One memorable moment in the Russian campaign has you crawling through a raised pipeline to sneak 
 behind German lines and into a fortified factory building. As you make your way through the pipeline, 
 you'll spot and snipe small pockets of German infantry through holes in the pipe. When they fire 
 back up at you, you'll notice bullets tearing through the rusted pipe, ripping open holes for shafts 
 of light to poke through. It's a thrilling effect. You'll also get quite a rush from both participating 
 in and defending against all-out infantry charges across open city squares in Stalingrad. But just 
 as the novelty of these wears off, you're shunted over to the British campaign in North Africa, 
 where you'll do things like participate in night raids of small Tunisian towns, climb up to the 
 top of spires to call in artillery on enemy tanks, and even drive a tank yourself. The American 
 campaign has its own memorable moments, like scaling the cliffs of Pointe du Hoc, or sniping at 
 German mortar crews from the top of a grain silo. The game paces itself so that you're always on 
 your toes, and you'll find yourself switching back and forth almost constantly from an offensive 
 position to making a defensive stand against counterattacks on the objective you've just captured. 
 Yes, at the end of the day you're still just shooting a lot of Nazis, but the constantly varying 
 contexts of how and why you're doing it keep the game compelling from start to finish.  

          Massive amounts of infantry can populate the battlefield.     

  You won't be participating 
 in these forays alone; far from it. In every setting you'll be surrounded by what seems like dozens 
 of soldiers, both friends and foes, who move and act in a realistic fashion. Lots of your artificially 
 intelligent mates will die by your side, along with the dozens of enemy soldiers you kill, but 
 more will come in from the rear echelons to take their place. The designers often do a good job 
 of reminding you that the war isn't just the infantry skirmish in which you're fighting. From time 
 to time you'll see planes engaged in dogfights flying overhead, or when you complete an objective 
 of capturing a German harbor, you'll call in a naval strike and see enemy merchant ships being 
 sunk at the docks.  

  In each confrontation, you'll find yourself setting up at logical stopping points to exchange fire 
 with German resistance. You can snipe dozens of enemies out of the windows and from the trenches 
 in front of a house, for example, but reinforcements replace them. It never feels as though the 
 game is cheaply spawning in more fodder for you; it just does a great job of making you feel like 
 there are a realistic number of soldiers holed up in a building. You need to get a feel for the 
 flow of each pitched battle, and this can be done by advancing your line when the enemy ranks look 
 thin enough, and then breaking into the house or bunker. Your allies will follow you in and help 
 you clear out the objective. Of course, if you're too meek at attacking and pressing your advantage, 
 the enemy AI is wily and aggressive enough to take charge. They're not afraid to pour fire on your 
 position and toss tons of grenades at you. Thankfully, a handy grenade danger indicator lets you 
 know when and where you have to scurry away from an impending blast. When you do die, the game 
 reloads very quickly, and you're even treated to a quote about war from various historical figures. 
 One that sticks out in our minds is an ironic one from Solomon Short: "The only winner in the War 
 of 1812 was Tchaikovsky."     

  One aspect of gameplay that has changed since the first Call of Duty is that you no longer have 
 a health bar. As you get shot, you'll see the screen growing more and more red along the borders 
 and your character will start to grunt and pant. If you continue to take damage in a short span 
 of time, you die. So as you get shot that first or second time, you need to get yourself back to 
 cover and hide for a couple of seconds to recover. Once your vision clears, you're good to go again. 
 Some people may be put off by this Halo-like gameplay conceit, but it actually works very well 
 here, and it really is no more contrived than hunting down and hoarding health packs. In the context 
 of Call of Duty 2, we'd go so far as to say that it's an improvement over the traditional health 
 system, as you never find yourself at a tough checkpoint (the game autosaves quite a lot) without 
 enough health or medikits. Ammo's never an issue either, as there's never a shortage of dead bodies 
 to loot for guns, bullets, and grenades. The focus stays squarely on the fight.  

          Smoke grenades can help obscure the view of enemy machine gunners and snipers.     

 
  Speaking of grenades, the other major new gameplay conceit is the use of smoke grenades. You can 
 pop these in front of machine-gun nests or to obscure the view of enemy snipers, making infantry 
 charges a more viable option. The smoke effect looks outstanding and comes in handy in both the 
 single- and multiplayer aspects to neutralize the effectiveness of fixed machine-gun nests and 
 snipers. There's also nothing quite as exciting as running through a dense smoke cloud and finding 
 yourself face-to-face with the enemy (the view from the opposite side is pretty cool as well) . 

  Multiplayer Call of Duty 2 picks up right where the original left off, offering standard deathmatch, 
 team deathmatch, and capture-the-flag modes, along with the search-and-destroy mode from the original 
 game, where one team has to plant a bomb and destroy one of two objectives while the other team 
 defends. A mode called "headquarters" is also available, and it's probably the most enjoyable mode 
 of the five available in COD2. In this mode, two different areas on a map are designated as capture 
 points for either of the two teams. To score points, a team must control and set up a headquarters 
 on one of the two areas. Once that's set up, points begin increasing for the controlling team. 
 The other team must attempt to overrun the position to try to stop the points from ticking up. 
 During the time a headquarters is set up, the defending team members can't respawn (if they're 
 killed) until their headquarters is overrun or the HQ expires. Once one of those two things happens, 
 capture points are changed to different locations and the teams begin anew to try to set up a base. 
 The nature of capturing, defending, and a constantly shifting HQ location makes this mode fun, 
 because teams must adapt to different roles quickly and on the fly. As far as weapon balance goes, 
 there's a predictable relationship between bolt-action rifles, semiautomatic rifles, assault rifles, 
 and submachine guns. The smoke grenades can also change battlefield dynamics greatly, as snipers 
 can sometimes find their favorite killing fields obscured. The shotguns are also extremely powerful 
 in close-quarters situations, and they're fun to use.  

          Call of Duty 2 sounds and looks great.     

  The presentation in Call of Duty 2 is 
 also topflight. Each mission is introduced with video footage from the Military Channel, as well 
 as documentary-style narration that helps set the historical setting for what you're about to do. 
 The game's graphics are also great, particularly the smoke effects from smoke grenades and explosions, 
 as well as the fantastic amount of detail put into both the indoor and outdoor environments across 
 a wide variety of landscapes. Textures can sometimes be a little less sharp when looking at vehicles 
 or character models up close. But since most of the game is so fast and chaotic anyway, you don't 
 notice much. The unfortunate thing is that the game can chug very badly in some key spots, reducing 
 frame rate to 15 or less. For the most part, it ran well on our primary test system, a Pentium 
 4 2.4GHz with 1GB of RAM and a GeForce 6800 OC with 128MB. But in certain spots, like some massed 
 infantry charges, or the armored-car getaway sequence, our rig really struggled to keep up, even 
 using the game's chosen "optimal" graphics setup, which seemed somewhat modest. Sound is where 
 Call of Duty 2 excels like no other. Between the stirring score that kicks up during key moments, 
 to the top-notch gun and explosion effects, the game sounds fantastic. The speech is also pretty 
 good, particularly the yelling that your squadmates and enemies do during battle, which plays right 
 into your excitement and tension as you fight.  

  Call of Duty 2 is just about everything you would hope for and expect from the sequel to one of 
 the most successful World War II shooters of all time. Its varied campaign, excellent sound and 
 gameplay design, and generally good AI make it a worthy successor to the original. At the same 
 time, though, it's still a World War II shooter, and if you've grown weary of them, then Call of 
 Duty 2's lack of new material might turn you away. It can also be murderous on your computer if 
 you have modest hardware. What Call of Duty 2 does do well is nail down just about all aspects 
 that define an ideal first-person shooter. If you liked the original and have been thirsting for 
 more, Call of Duty 2 will definitely deliver that.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (1073 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: flusternucker
Rating: 7
Date: Apr 11, 2009 5:42 am PT
Review:  Infinite enemy spawning is so last century. Especially without ability to save on demand (it uses 
 a checkpoint system) . Veteran mode is hit or miss - some levels are satisfying, others are maddeningly 
 frustrating. Been playing one of the US levels for hours now, trying every imaginable tactic - 
 go left, go right, go middle, go up, go inside, go around, go fast, go slow, snipe, spray, frag, 
 smoke,... nothing is working. The enemies are infinite and overwhelming in number. Ultimately, 
 it's the same result... die and start over at the same damn checkpoint.
  
  Your teammates are a major liability. They sit cowering behind walls, taking the best cover, usually 
 dying as soon as they actually try to do something useful. Always, and I mean ALWAYS jumping in 
 your line of fire - it's like they're trying to do it on purpose. Of course game over if they succeed 
 in killing themselves in your stream of bullets. Worst is when they block your path and you're 
 stuck somewhere... nothing you can do about it, can kill them, push them, or request them to move. 
 They just sit there with their thumbs up their butts.
  
  Oh, and if I have to hear "Look out it's a potato masher!" one more time I'm going to explode. 
 Is the word "grenade" banned for some reason? At first I thought it was just a twist they were 
 putting on the Russian dialect... cute. But then the Brits started saying it... then the Americans. 
 I don't think they ever use the word "grenade" in the entire game. WTF?!
  
  Anyhow, just one example of how much worse the dialogue is in the sequel... I don't recall the 
 dialogue ever seeming repetitive or corny in COD1 or COD1: UO. Maybe the chatter wasn't as frequent? 
 COD2 is riddled with Hollywood cheese lines, like "You Germans came all the way to Russia just 
 to die" (very popular one) and "That's for my sister" and other crap. The fact that they're so 
 cheesy makes their repetition all the more glaring. Maybe in COD1 they said things like "Got one!" 
 and "Grenade!!" quite a bit, but those at least seem like natural common expressions.....
  
  Overall, some great points to be sure, but it left a bad taste in my mouth and makes me want 
 to fire up my old COD1 and COD1: UO games instead -- much better in my opinion. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chandu83
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 21, 2009 4:05 pm PT
Review:  A sequel to the 2003 game, Call of Duty 2 tells the story of three soldiers from different parts 
 of the world  Russia, UK and US, fighting against the same enemy  Nazi Germany.
  
  Call of Duty 2 takes the high standards higher. The campaign is more visceral and engaging. Although 
 the core gameplay aspects remain the same, some minor changes go a long way in making the game 
 more immersive.
  
  You are only a soldier in a group fighting against odds in the midst of heavy battle, there are 
 no one man army missions, and you are always a part of a platoon. This gives you the feeling of 
 being a small part in a great battle.
  
  You begin your campaign in Russia as a private in the Russian army fighting to regain control of 
 Stalingrad. Once you capture the city hall from German army, you move on to the British operation 
 in Africa. You attack the Germans in tanks and race through the narrow streets of Tunisia in an 
 armored car evading the Panzerfaust, and then a final mission in Amaye sur Seulles will see the 
 end of the British campaign.
  
  The American campaign begins in frenzy on the D-Day, not at the Omaha beach in Normandy (Medal 
 of Honor: Allied Assault, remember?) , but at the foot of steep cliffs of Pointe du Hoc in Normandy, 
 France. You are a part of United States Army Ranger Assault Group in Operation Overlord. You have 
 to scale the cliffs and gain the control of the 155mm guns. This for me was the best part of the 
 game. It was truly epic.
  
  The visuals and sound ensure that you are completely immersed in the game. At high settings the 
 game looks amazing. Particle effects, explosions and rain have been greatly improved using the 
 proprietary graphics engine. The game has native widescreen support, so there is no need to resort 
 to user created patches. Character models look great, and the animations are very smooth. Soldiers 
 don't appear to glide like they did in the previous game.
  
  Level design is top notch. Environments in different parts of the world have been created with 
 a great detail. The sand covered deserts in Libya and Egypt, icy streets of Russia and the ruined 
 cities in France are outstanding.
  
  Sound increases the intensity of the battle. The weapons sound really sharp and the score is very 
 moving. You can hear soldiers screaming and taunting, and the sound of explosions create a great 
 atmosphere. The Battle for Hill 400 level comes to mind; it begins with a battle cry and the allies 
 charging to take on the Germans. The game puts you in a war movie.
  
  Each level begins with real World War II footage and all the battles are factual. You get to read 
 the diary entries of the character before each mission. It shows the work the developers put into 
 the game to make it as real as possible.
  
  Gameplay has received some minor tweaks. Unlike most other games, there is no concept of health 
 packs. When you are hit by an enemy, your vision is blurred, and it turns red. You need to find 
 cover quickly to recover. I was initially surprised and not sure if I liked it. After having played 
 for a few minutes, I realized I didn't have to worry about getting health packs, and I could concentrate 
 on the action instead.
  
  The save mechanic in the game is different too. You don't ever have to save your game, the does 
 this for you  it's a checkpoint system. When you start the game, you don't have to look through 
 a save game menu, you just hit resume game and you are done. While I am not such a fan of not having 
 Quick Save, I think in this game, it works perfectly, because there are no frustrating parts that 
 would require you to play over and over. The pacing is just right.
  
  I played the game on hard difficulty, and the enemy AI presents quite a challenge, so you don't 
 ever want to rush into a fight. Instead you take cover, flank the enemy, use smoke grenades etc. 
 The friendly AI is also very helpful and they often rescued me from tight spots.
  
  Perhaps the only negative aspect that I can think of is the infinite soldier spawn. There are times 
 when you have to advance in battle or else enemies keep spawning endlessly. You could be crouching 
 behind a wall and kill hundreds of soldiers, and unless you move forward, they keep coming at you. 
 This will not spoil your experience by a long way, but I expected something more than the age old 
 infinite enemy spawn trick.
  
  The campaign is about 15 hours long at Hard difficulty setting. This game deserves to be played 
 by all FPS gamers. It is an amazing experience.
  
  
  + Great graphics
  + Some innovative gameplay changes
  + Excellent friendly and enemy AI
  + Sound
  + Level design
 
  
  - Infinite enemy spawn
  
  
  Verdict - Must Play! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Stowik
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 11, 2009 11:55 am PT
Review:  I strongly believe that Call of Duty 2 is one of the best WW2 first person shooters available. 
 
  
  To enjoy the game, you NEED Lt. Speir's Realism Mod. 
  
  I will break the game down by each campaign:
  
  1) Russian
  You start small (potato grenades) 
 and move on. The snow effects, fire effects, sound, weapon damage, weapon "sense of impact", number 
 of corpses when set to max, voices over loud speakers shouting stuff as you fight off waves of 
 Germans... it's pretty friggin' incredible. Stalingrad is covered and it's fun.
  
  2) British
  From the snow to the sand. Same comments as above, but you get to drive some tanks. 
 The tank combat is arcade style fast, but it's really fun. 
  
  3) American
  Same comments above without snow or sand. Instead, smoke. There are a couple of key battles (specifically 
 defending Hill 400) , when, after enduring an artillery barage, your position is nearly overrun 
 as swarms of Germans charge and it's difficult to tell friend from foe as the proverbial perimeter 
 has been breached (see the movie We Were Soldiers and it will possibly remind you of the battle 
 in some ways) . 
  
  Another strength of Call of Duty 2 is WEAPONS. 
  With Lt. Spier's Mod, the weapons are great... sound great... feel realistic in their damage output, 
 and as a antique firearm collector, I loved picking over corpses for the best weapon. 
  
  In summary, Call of Duty 2 is an outstanding game that was technically ahead of it's time when 
 it was released. 
  
  Buy a cheap copy, crank the settings to max (especially corpses... but maybe not difficulty!) download 
 the Mod, put on some headphones and have a great 8 or 10 hours of single player WW2 arcade style 
 bliss. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jospark
Rating: 6
Date: Feb 13, 2009 1:40 pm PT
Review:  Luckily I bought this title at a discount.
  While the graphics have improved over the first Call of Duty, the gameplay has been extremely lackluster.
 
  
  The first Call of Duty had amazing level designs & required the player to exercise some caution 
 and strategy.
  
  The sequel has become a mindless first person action shooter. I nicknamed my character, "The Terminator," 
 because on regular/hard difficulty he can soak up a clip of bullets every other minute, and charge 
 into machine gun nests.
  
  Anyway, the gameplay requires the player character to be able to regenerate like a troll, because 
 in many scenarios, enemies endlessly spawn until you charge into the objective and fulfill the 
 scripted objectives.
  
  As for the level design, compared to the original, there have been no bright spots, except for 
 the first American campaign where you storm the cliffs of Normandy. The Russian campaign was lackluster, 
 and the British campaign, has been frustrating -- especially the levels where you have to ride 
 trucks (on a scripted track) and suffer through the highly scripted "shoot them before they shoot 
 you" levels.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: SR_2012
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 4, 2009 7:32 am PT
Review:  Gameplay - 9/10
  
  Immersive gameplay sucks you in. With stunningly responsive AI and and beautifully detailed missions, 
 you'll never feel bored. The game offers hard hitting and fast paced gameplay and which is very 
 enjoyable. The missions are intense as they are interesting. I'm promising you that this game's 
 gameplay won't let you down. Multiplayer is also extremely addictive.
  
  Graphics - 9/10
  
  Stunningly detailed environments with great visuals draws you in even more. There are rarely 
 any videos and whatever you see will happen right before your eyes........ in game graphics. Sometimes 
 pistols get stuck in holsters...... there are some tricks. Smoke effects are fabulous. The game 
 also has improved weather effects and so on.
  
  Sound 9/10
  
  You'll hear a bullet tearing past your ear......... and you'll know what its like. Explosions, noises 
 from the battlefield, gunshots, screams, everything spices up the already first class gameplay.
 
  
  Value - 9/10
  
  Its quite cheap and worth your money......... maybe more than worthy.
  
  
  Overall :-
  
 
  The game is a great trip into the recent past as it lets you relive the most intense and famous 
 battles of World War II. A critic rightly described it as the best WWII game till date. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: colbertnation1
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 1, 2009 6:05 pm PT
Review:  I stopped playing this game a while back because I was mainly a multiplayer person and unfortunetly 
 call of duty 2 multiplayer is full of cheaters because Punkbuster no longer updates it.
  
  The graphics are OK but you will quickly care aless about that when you play single player, a few 
 of the single player objectives are just plain normal and somewhat boring, at other times its a 
 blast to play. For instance you have to hold off a hill and call in mortar fire against hundreds 
 of German soldiers and armored vehicles, using bazookas and just about anything you can find.
 
  
  The multiplayer at one time was excellent, it was simple and easy but you didnt need much more 
 than that. Its full of cheaters now since the pb isnt updated anymore but still may be worth it 
 to play.
  
  if you havnt played this game and like a good single player, be sure to check it out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zizoo897
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 26, 2008 4:53 pm PT
Review:  Jerries ,take cover !!!!!!
  You would probably hear this sentence about 100 times within playing this masterpiece ,and believe 
 me you will love it every single time ,COD series is probably the most epic and the best WWII game-series 
 till date .
  
  COD 2 worth playing over and over again ,it delivers a fantastic experience in all aspects ,a very 
 innovated WWII A. I ,a mass selection of WWII weapons and costumes ,a variety of different battlefields 
 where WWII took place including Stalingrad ,El-Alameen and Normandy which will make you feel like 
 you have really been in this war before .
  
  except for being too short in my opinion and the lack of a detailed story line ,COD2 could have 
 been no 1 WWII game for eternity ,However WWII got nothing to tell but the mass numbers of the 
 millions who died because of it .
  
  Eventually this masterpiece definitely worth your time ,so be a soldier and answer the call of 
 duty .
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: blackout_06
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 14, 2008 2:12 am PT
Review:  I would like to start the review by emphasizing on the graphics and AI first.
  
  Graphics 9/10
  When I rate it 9 out of 10, I mean it. The game has one of the best graphics engines 
 in the world-with my nVidia 8400 GS, it felt as if you were on the battlefield. Excellent weather, 
 and visual effects brings World War II right to your screen. You'll know what I'm talking about 
 when you play the game, especially the landing on Ponte du Hoc in the American campaign.
  
  Gameplay 10/10
  AI has improved a lot since the first CoD game. Now, your allies and enemies 
 seek better cover and are more trigger happy than the last game. You'll even see guys running with 
 MG 42s on their shoulder. I was extremely impressed by one thing. One soldier opened his cap and 
 put it on his rifle, and exposed it, so as to spot snipers. In the game you'll even see a man carrying 
 his comrade's body and so on and so forth. For the best experience play with the blood option and 
 keep the number of bodies to insane-you'll feel like you are in WWII.
  
  Sound 9/10
  The sound is so good, it adds a whole new dimension to the game. Each weapon has its unique sound, 
 including reload and stuff.
  
  All the three combined together makes the game come to life. Its intense, fast paced and beautiful 
 to look at. Trust me, its a ride you don't want to miss. As a critic defined it, it is truly "the 
 best WWII game ever created". 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cpt-Salt
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 22, 2008 4:35 am PT
Review:  This was my first ever Call of Duty. I started playing it, and the Campaign mode was brilliant, 
 it really gives you an idea of how terrible World War 2 (or generally war) was like. I have to 
 say that there is plenty of action in campaign, and it makes you feel like a real soldier. All 
 the battles were real, and it can increase your interest in World War 2 as you play it, also because 
 it shows documentaries inbetween missions. 
  
  The sound is brilliant, from the explosions to the gunfire. The sound makes you feel like you are 
 really inside a battle, so I reccommend that you crank the sound right up and at the highest quality.
 
  
  I hit the online within the first few days, and I have to say that it is superbly fun and addictive. 
 The weapons are not biased, and they can all have different uses for different situations; they 
 have clearly been programmed well. 
  
  I got this game in February, and I have been attending regulary online ever since, and I still 
 go back to campaign sometimes to revisit a battle that I was moved by. I think gamespot underrated 
 this game, and I think it should have got at least a 9.1 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sirlag01
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 17, 2008 8:50 am PT
Review:  D - Day 1944
  
  "We've just landed on the beach and gun shots and explosions are going on all around me. From all 
 over I see my friends and comrades dying, people I've spent months with getting to know them - 
 just dying in front of me. I need to get over the cliff so that i can take out the machine gunners. 
 There's just too many enemies. I don't know if I will make it."
  
  That was just a few minutes of the gaming experience that Call of Duty 2 gives you. A successor 
 to the first game of the series Call of Duty, this title improves the game play and graphics, while 
 still sticking to the formula of the first game to provide with 10 hours of non stop action!
  
  The first game was arguably a turning point in the World War 2 fps theater, by giving players 
 brilliant graphics and a game that put you in the true atmosphere of World War 2. This game expands 
 on that and gives you a single player campaign that spans over 10 missions, each broken up into 
 three parts, while switching between three different characters over the course of the game.
  
  Multiplayer is just as good as the first, offering deathmatch, team deathmatch, and capture-the-flag 
 modes as well as the search-and-destroy from the original. A mode called "headquarters" is also 
 available, and it's probably the best out of the five in COD2
  
  To round this review off COD2 is simply a must have for fps fans and a great successor to COD. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JParkes
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 15, 2008 5:01 am PT
Review:  This game is very under-rated. I admit, If we were talking about the campaign side of things, it 
 isn't as good as the first COD, or ones after. However, I would buy this game just for the online, 
 it's immense. There are different types of servers, theres all bolt-action rifle servers (BAR) , 
 all sniper servers and all weapon servers. On top of that there are different types of games like 
 TDM, DM, Search and destroy etc. The Graphics are good, the sound is very good. The gameplay is 
 very smooth, even online (most of the time, and it depends on your connection.) 
  Most of the hours I've spent on this game is on the online side of things. However, don't get me 
 wrong the campaign is still good but a little bit uninspired. There are plenty of weapons, but 
 I think they could maybe have put something different in like a flamethrower or something. The 
 blood on this game is more brutal than on other WWII games, for a starters on COD2 there is blood!! 
 However, they could have made some better headshots.
  I would recommend this game to anyone that wants to play a good, simple, online WWII shooter. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rezpatriot
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 7, 2008 9:23 am PT
Review:  I brought Call Of Duty 2 on budget, I do like shootem up games and enjoyed this game too. The graphics 
 were nice and crisp, the voice acting was cool and the storyline gave enough depth for the levels 
 to be different. Mind you World War II was huge! Its quite a Hollywood game, constant action, lots 
 of one liners and not much emphasis of the hardship of war. If you die you restart, but its a game, 
 just interesting.
  I am looking forward to playing Call of Duty 2 for the Xbox 360 soon as its budget and probably 
 pretty quick to get through, I might even try it on hard.
  There isn't much features, no being able to choose squads or weapons or tactics. It is a straight 
 forward arcade first person shooter with the emphasis is surving and completing missions.
  Good Solid Experience.
  If you are looking for a game to accompany this purchase you could always 
 play Close Combat III: Behind the Russian Front which is a tactical military war game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Getix-01
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 5, 2008 12:43 pm PT
Review:  Call of duty 2:
  Graphics: compared to other games from its release date... these graphics are awesome! as far as 
 Im concerned when I bought this in 2005 nothing was as good as the graphics on call of duty 2, 
 The beautiful lights on the dead soldiers around you were stunning! So stunning you would stop 
 and stare whilst be shot at by an MG42 :O
  
  Game play: Normal call of duty game play, mainly on foot all the time with vehicle missions thrown 
 in here and there. The first time activision got rid of their annoying health bar that goes within 
 minutes of playing. 
  The acting in call of duty 2 is basically the same as in call of duty 1, which is pretty good, 
 sorry to the poor chap in el alamein who was shot down by and MG42 in the door frame.
  
  Multi player: Not much to say except Utterly Brilliant!
  Most of the maps may be remakes from 
 call of Duty 1 but that does not matter as there are many modded maps and game play tweaks that 
 you can download. (kips afterlife zombies mod, that's right zombies) 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: agordplayer
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 1, 2008 11:15 am PT
Review:  From my point of view one of the best FPS for the PC. This game is good on all systems. The best 
 graphics is on the Xbox 360 and PC. Has a really good campain mode. Three different ones. British, 
 USA and ?. Has really good graphics. Not so sure if it is as good as Call Of Duty 4 but is still 
 a good game. Highly addictive. This game is really similar to World war 2 with D-day. This should 
 be a game for youre FPS collection. I will give it a 9.5 out of 10 stars.
  
  From my point of view one of the best FPS for the PC. This game is good on all systems. The best 
 graphics is on the Xbox 360 and PC. Has a really good campain mode. Three different ones. British, 
 USA and ?. Has really good graphics. Not so sure if it is as good as Call Of Duty 4 but is still 
 a good game. Highly addictive. This game is really similar to World war 2 with D-day. This should 
 be a game for youre FPS collection. I will give it a 9.5 out of 10 stars. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Zantozzzz
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 18, 2008 9:28 pm PT
Review:  I played it for first time in my life and I do not have words to tell you what I think about this 
 game. Let me see.
  
  All the campaigns are very interesting and my favorites campaigns were the Russian and the English 
 campaign.
  
  We can see in this title that the terrain, models, and weapons details are well done. Also we can 
 see details such as the blood when we shoot an enemy, and we really need to use the weapon sight 
 if we want to hit the enemy. And I remember that on Call of Duty and Call of duty United Offensive 
 we could hit the enemy from a long distance without use the weapon sight. So I see that this title 
 is more realist.
  
  Also this game is easy to play because we have the auto-recovery health system. So if we are under 
 heavy fire we just need to get cover and after a few seconds we can get back to the action.
  
  So if you don't have this game buy it, you will enjoy it a lot. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lebowski-Dude
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 16, 2008 7:23 pm PT
Review:  When I first played Call of Duty, I turned the volume up loud on my surround sound speakers. Why? 
 Simply because it was the best and most immersive war game I had experienced. I truly felt great 
 and successful waving the flag over Berlin at the climax of the game; I felt as if I had liberated 
 the world of a great burden. Not many games accomplish this feat, and even fewer let you walk away 
 and think about the experience afterwards. For me, the original Call of Duty was the videogame 
 version of "Saving Private Ryan."
  Call of Duty 2 manages to maintain this intense and brutal action, making your heart pound at the 
 climactic moments. Yet, sadly, as I feel is the case with many sequels, it loses some of its "magic." 
 Especially in this limited WWII genre, with the same ol' Nazi enemies, something starts feeling 
 like its missing after a while: a charisma of a sort, the binding of all the parts. Don't get me 
 wrong, this game is superb for its action, has incredible visuals for the time, and is extremely 
 intense. However, I found Call of Duty to be a more rewarding and exciting experience.
  The most intense moment in the game, I felt, is a scene of scaling the cliffs of Pointe Du Hoc 
 on D-Day, only to reach the top with a gun in hand and hundreds of enemies surrounding you, slaughtering 
 your allies. This moment alone redeemed the game for me, and I found it more intense than any moment 
 I had experienced in the original.
  In conclusion, Call of Duty 2 is a great game, especially if you have not played the original; 
 however, I feel that the original Call of Duty had a stronger backbone, an inspirational feel, 
 and a undeniable "magic" of some sort about it. If you have never played the Call of Duty series 
 before, put this high on your list of "to-buys". It's more than worth it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: om3ga_storm
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 18, 2008 4:28 pm PT
Review:  Simply put, Call of Duty 2 is basically Call of duty 1 with better graphics, user interface, and 
 some new settings in the form of Africa. Apart from that, there is really nothing new here. 
  
  Once again you play as the Americans, british, Russians in the single player campaign in very 
 similar scenarios, with Africa being the lone different setting. However, the campaign itself is 
 quite short. The weapons you saw in the original game return, with a few minor tweaks. There are 
 some new guns like the shotgun-like trench guns which you can get your hands on. You will also 
 be able to take control of tanks, and man AA guns to take down nazi planes. It's all stuff we've 
 seen before, but the shoot up is pretty gruesome and intense. With great sound quality, you actually 
 feel like you're in a battlefield.
  
  The shooter experience is definitely top notch, and it is very chaotic and realistic. However, 
 you should only pick this game up if you thought call of duty and medal of honor Allied Assault 
 weren't enough for your neutralizing Nazi needs. Because it's all "been there, done that" for the 
 most part. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stuka20
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 28, 2008 12:31 pm PT
Review:  Call Of Duty 2 surprised me with great graphics, impressive enemy AI, authentic WWII weapons, awesome 
 voice- over, very detailed environments, strong multiplayer, many fun, exciting levels, and you 
 can even make your own multiplayer maps but you have to go to another website to do so. My favorite 
 level is The Battle Of Pointe Du Hoc where you attack a beach in Normandy to secure heavy cannons 
 that pose a threat to the beach landings on Omaha and Utah beach. I also like the Russian levels. 
 Even though I have my favorites, all of the levels are action-packed and intense. Every mission 
 is different. They will have you doing all kinds of things like manning a MG42 on an armoured car, 
 destroying cannons, etc. The only thing I did not like about it was that it lagged a lot. Maybe 
 its my computer but that is why I rated this game a 8.5/10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: elementality89
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jul 26, 2008 2:47 pm PT
Review:  You may ask "why bother reviewing a game that's out of date by two sequels? "
  
  well I would respond by kicking you, probably in the crotch and telling you I could review what 
 I wanted, but if you were really persuasive I'd have to say that the last two didn't count.
  
  call of duty 3 was such a joke it belongs in a zoo, near the monkies who dress in drag and 
 spray rectal discharge over passers by and call of duty 4, while my pc is still inferior to play 
 it and my xbox is still *ahem* broken to buy it for that and I'd rather not sell my body to science 
 in order to afford a ps3. Moving on.
  
  Call of duty 2 is the sequel to the shining gem that was 2003's Call of Duty, which I still play 
 online frequently, made by the same people and is lives up to its hype, mostly.
  
  You know the drill.
  
  Good shazz.
  
  + The graphics are pretty impressive, with nice smoke 
 effects, snow effects, etc etc, but if you've read my previous reviews, you'd know that graphics 
 matters as much to me as fair play matters to George Bush. 
  
  + The gameplay is excellent, as was Call of Duty's gameplay. With a few additions I didn't like 
 so much, but Ill leave that for now.
  
  + Controls are smooth, tidy and all around easy to use, nothing to complain about there. (damn)
 
  
  + The voice acting is all impressive, although the few complaints I have, ill address below, like 
 a good reviewer. 
  
  + The levels were all designed well, providing a varied range of outdoorsy, indoorsy and whatever 
 else in between.
  
  Enough praise, lets move onto negativity.
  
  Bad Shazz.
  
  - The gameplay additions I didn't like, were few but significant. While holding your breath with 
 a scoped rifle seemed a good feature, it removed any real difficulty from the game. As long as 
 you had plenty of ammo and a big building to hide in, you could have taken down the entire Nazi 
 war machine with a scoped Russian rifle, probably recycled from a paper shredder or something knowing 
 the Russians. 
  
  - Secondly, where the f*ck did health meters go? It gave a challenge to survive once you took too 
 many bullets to the face and had to hide out until you found a health kit or something, but now 
 to get better all you need is somewhere to lie thats out of danger. 
  
  F*ck hospitals, just invest in a muddy trench for patients to lie in, it seems to work for that 
 Russian that got a bullet in the gut.
  
  - In war games I still cant comprehend some things. Russians speak perfect english but have an 
 accent, while the intruding Germans all sound like an angry version of that thing from the Goonies. 
 But what cheeses me off the most about War games is the Americans in them. I mean is it a game 
 or a glorified army recruitment simulator trying to show young males what they could be and the 
 funny one liners they could spurt out while hunting down the evil Nazis. Sorry, i get a little 
 carried away when it comes to patriotic war veterans.
  
  - Upon playing through CoD2's campaign I began to notice a pattern: I was constantly thrown into 
 an array of bullets to wait for a stupid little cast bar from world of warcraft or something to 
 finish so a comm line could be repaired or a radio could be taken over or something similar. throughout 
 the entire game, I went through the same thing, it did nothing different. I got thrown into the 
 same situation but with a bad halloween mask on, incase I noticed the repetition. 
  
  And I f*cking well did.
  
  I've never liked criticising series because if you like one, you'll 
 have at least a pleasant thought of the rest.
  
  even though I think in parts, Call of Duty 2 p*ssed me off, it's still using the same formula Call 
 of Duty used, so if your looking for a better looking version of Call of Duty with different levels 
 and the difficulty setting turned down to mentally handicapped bear, I'd say give it a go. 
  
  It's like the original but with a few more skid marks on its underwear, but as I said it's 
 pointless. If you were a fan of it before, you'll like it now, despite its flaws. 
  
  However if you weren't, you'll consider Call of Duty 2 a big wank sandwich with a pube dressing. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mudcaked
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 22, 2008 12:30 pm PT
Review:  In a market filled with a slew of World War II shooters, Infinity Ward have really risen above 
 the rest with this elegant and outstanding FPS title that runs rings around it's competitors and 
 with the time of this review being mid 2008, I dare say stands the test of time remarkably well.
 
  
  Call of Duty II successfully incorporates both the Western and Eastern Fronts of the ETO (European 
 Theatre of Operations) . The game will start you out as a conscript hastily thrown into the war 
 itself with no formal standard of training. This will be the Soviet campaign and if you have ever 
 seen the movie Enemy at the Gates, you will notice it takes some material and inspiration from 
 some of the scenes presented there. This segment of the game will take you from Moscow to Stalingrad. 
 
  
  The British and American campaigns open up as you come closer to resolving your Soviet campaign. 
 These missions do not have to be all completed sequentially as some will open up early to accommodate 
 any players that may be stuck in a particular section. The British campaign will take the player 
 from North Africa into post D-Day France. Playing as both an "Infanteer" and an Armoured commander 
 tasked to charge across the barren desert and engage the more advanced Panzer Mk I and II tanks 
 in open combat. The American Campaign starts off as perhaps one of the most memorable in all World 
 War II shooters; Point du Hoc in the boots of a U. S Ranger. From scaling the cliffs of Normandy 
 to crossing the Rhine, there will be several scripted and yet highly memorable moments for the 
 player to encounter. 
  
  The gameplay is highly cinematic, and when utilised with EAX support, your ears will almost believe 
 you are in a warzone. The scripted events add alot to the characters, among these many events you'll 
 find a Tom that can't operate a German vehicle in a critical situation, with a captain chewing 
 his ears off and adding sarcastic commentary on how to drive. Smaller examples of these events 
 could be as simple as a gunner's assistant dropping all the link for the .30 Browning and getting 
 a chewing for his efforts when the gunner sets up without the extra link. The AI is well programmed 
 and for the most part will jink in the open, seek cover where available, throw grenades back and 
 flush you out with their 'steilhandgranaten'. The enemy will flank your position if it can and 
 will react to you doing the same. The Audio is used well as commands and warnings are given accurately 
 by your allies and by the Germans to their team as the tactical situation evolves. A very impressive 
 element of this title that leaves little to be desired.
  
  One major difference in this to it's predecessor is the lack of Health Packs. When hit a players 
 vision will go red and blurry forcing you to take cover as further hits will definitely kill you. 
 I find this more satisfying as the red vision could also determine grazing hits indicating the 
 danger you are in and the likelyhood of death if there is no cover around. The weapons in the game 
 are wide and varied World War II vintage, SMLE Lee Enfield .303, Sten Gun, Bren Support Gun, M1 
 Garand, M1 Carbine, Thompson Sub Machine Gun, the BAR, Springfield '03, Mauser K98, Mp40, StG44, 
 PPsH, Mosin Nagant, Sidearms, Grenades, Rocket Launchers, MG42's and Browning .30's among several 
 I have probably failed to mention, all weapons are modelled well including an Iron Sight or Scoped 
 vantage that is well detailed.
  
  This game does not require outrageous PC Specs and looks great on any standard DX9 system, having 
 just completed Call of Duty 4: Modern Warfare, I'd still strongly recommend this game to any fan 
 of Military Shooters. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sk8erwarlock
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 21, 2008 6:48 pm PT
Review:  Ok, for starters, this game is one of the best WW2 shooters out there. There is a ton of WW2 shooters 
 out here but this is on my top 3 pc games of all time.
  
  Gameplay: The gameplay is just great. Everything feels right and it's easy to kill. There is good 
 wide arrange of weapons and levels so you wont get bored. There is also a little bit of rail gun 
 shooting and you can even drive in a tank in another level. The controls work very well too. 
 
  10/10
  
  Sound: The sound in this game is really good, when in a firefight there is absolutely tons of bullets 
 and grenades flying everywhere with people just yelling at each other barking orders. The only 
 problem is that the russians don't ever speak in their native tongue which is kinda odd. 
  8/10
  
  Graphics: These graphics were revolutionary for the time and are still really good 
 even today. They are detailed and very well moddled. 
  9/10
  
  Multiplayer: The multiplayer has a big community and many custm maps and mods and gametypes so 
 you'll be playing this too for a really good while.
  8.5/10
  
  Replay value: moderatly high
  
  Well, there you have it, hope this helps.
  If you have anymore 
 quiestions, message me on gamestop or xbox-live, my gamertag is shweet117 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bren451
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 16, 2008 6:38 pm PT
Review:  Call Of Duty 2 surprised me with great graphics, impressive enemy AI, authentic WWII weapons, awesome 
 voice- over, very detailed environments, strong multiplayer, many fun, exciting levels, and you 
 can even make your own multiplayer maps but you have to go to another website to do so. My favorite 
 level is The Battle Of Pointe Du Hoc where you attack a beach in Normandy to secure heavy cannons 
 that pose a threat to the beach landings on Omaha and Utah beach. I also like the Russian levels. 
 Even though I have my favorites, all of the levels are action-packed and intense. Every mission 
 is different. They will have you doing all kinds of things like manning a MG42 on an armoured car, 
 destroying cannons, etc. The only thing I did not like about it was that it lagged a lot. Maybe 
 its my computer but that is why I rated this game a 8.5/10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: henrynarits
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 1, 2008 2:13 pm PT
Review:  Call of Duty 2, I think CoD2 is one of the best WWII shooters at the moment, I hope Call of Duty 
 5 will be better if it comes out this fall. The game looks great plays great and if u finish single 
 player on normal... like the game sais with hardest "u will not survive" u will have more fun for 
 many hours and multiplayer is the real deal about this game.
  There isn't a big story in this game. U will fight as 3 different soldiers on different fronts 
 with other weapons but the enemy stays the same all the time. Russians are first British second 
 and Americans last. As Russians u start near Moscow and end in Stalingrad as British u fight in 
 the deserts against Rommel and as American u storm Normandy in D-Day. All 3 characters survive 
 and game ends with battle in Caen
  Single player will keep u busy not for long, with some hours it can be finished. In this game there 
 are no boring missions they maybe are if u play second time them but first time u will enjoy them 
 all. I think the best mission was the first of the Americans one of the hardest to, i think. Call 
 of Duty 1 and its expansions last missions were killing, u know where they were shooting from how 
 many it was a huge battle and it was hard, u died a lot and with the hardest difficult it was worster, 
 but fun. In CoD2 the last mission was so good, it was easy and if I finished it i asked myself 
this can't be the last mission" but it was, luckily i was left with the hardest difficult and 
 the fun started, for me....: P
  They have added many new things into this game what wasn't in CoD1, like u didn't have to change 
 weapons to throw grenades and AL action looked more realistic, it was nice to see how the take 
 cover and shoo, Axis do the same, the only thing what maybe looked funny for me is that u are just 
 a private fighting but they all follow u, and most of the time the objective is easy, go there 
 destroy that or capture that, friends follow u and keep enemies busy if u finish them, if u played 
 with normal it wasn't very hard and u could most of the time fun and shoot with hardest, there 
 was much more taking cover what looked realistic for me, there were some new weapons, tanks to 
 destroy and more tank missions. About graphic... everyone who has played it knows it looks great. 
 After u have played Call of Duty 4 and u play this game again it still looks good and enjoyable 
 and its one of those games what work on most of computers, even the older ones and the loading 
 times aren't very long
  Multiplayer was that what made this series great and it hasn't changed. Killcam, no vehicles and 
 some new maps make this game more great after u have finished single player, learning curve for 
 new players may be hard but it doesn't take a long and every one will find a good weapon for them 
 self and have fun with it. This game doesn't need a lot of skill, a lot of luck is to in this and 
 u cant stay to long in one place, if your enemy watches killcam he will know where u are and come 
 there so shoot and run shoot and fun is maybe the best tactic in this game. At some points it was 
 disappointing to see tanks on some maps and u couldn't use them but if u start thinking its better 
 this way, u can always get Call of Duty United Offense if u want CoD with tanks and jeeps.
  In the end its a great game and maybe if u want a break from CoD4 or some other game, its cheap 
 and good and i haven't seen a player who hates this game or has said "waist of money"
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Carnage1995
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 19, 2008 8:34 am PT
Review:  Call of Duty 2 is a sequel to the 1st CoD game made in 2003.
  
  Well, graphics first. Nothing to really say... the graphics are good.
  
  About the sound, it's 
 sounds are great but some weapons sound like crackers when fired.
  
  Gameplay is great! Kept me entertain for hours completing the missions on each difficulty. AI is 
 good, enemies will bash you up when close and will throw and fire endlessly. Allys will get down 
 auto when there is a grenade. Objectives are easy to understand. Also being able to drive and shoot 
 with tanks is awesome!
  
  Since Single-player is great, Multi-player has to be too! And it is! Great and fun gametypes! Sadly 
 there's always hackers.
  
  Overall, a good WW2 game. Infinity Ward has done a great job with this game and so is the 1st and 
 4th one. Recommend you buy it or you still can't make up your mind download the demo and try. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xialon
Rating: 5
Date: Jun 15, 2008 8:06 pm PT
Review:  As you start the game you will notice a slight change in the graphics. It is true the graphics 
 are a little better. Then you will notice that the people that die do so in an overdramatic fashion. 
 It is like watching people getting killed in one of those 1920 silent film movies. Furthermore, 
 I am sure no one spouts out so much blood that it would send pools of blood ten feet out. It is 
 just not realistic. Also, the AI aslo spawn like mad and from no where. I mean is it possible to 
 house 50 Nazi in a two bedroom house? And why attack a house with so many people inside? Would 
 it not be more efficient just to send in an artelliry strike? Come on. Be more realistic.
  
  The sounds are still pretty nice. Graphics are decent, and there are a lot more details to 
 the guns, clothing, etc. Gameplay has pretty much stayed the same which is a good thing.
  
  If you loved the first CoD then I would only recommend this game in order to keep the series in 
 line. However, do not play this game if you are not a hardcore or even a casual gamer. It is highly 
 unsatisfactory to a whole new level. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Schweinhoundt
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 6, 2008 11:07 am PT
Review:  The battles are intense, the graphics are beautiful and the ai is.. well... decent. Single player 
 consists of 3 different campaigns: The american, russian and english with their own set of levels. 
 The single player is good and throws you in the first firefight to the other and gives you objectives 
 to fulfill in the meantime. Don't expect many large scale battles as you will more often find yourself 
 running in a bunker or house than on a battlefield. The enemies are not very smart and you will 
 defeat one nazi group after another though you will get really tough challenges sometimes, often 
 built up from many, rather than smart nazis coming running towards you. The enemies can however 
 pick up your grenades and throw them back and this will make some funny situations and they don't 
 exactly run into your face like in medal of honor but rather stay a couple of meters from you. 
 The main characters that you fight with are really lovable and will make you laugh and feel honor 
 many times (especially the english ones) . The graphics are good, Lightning, smoke and reflections. 
 The physics aren't that good, which means you won't find any ragdolls or equipment flying around, 
 but i don't think that will bother you as you must understand that this game is not very new. The 
 gameplay is great and the weapons are extraordinary well made. Online play is like any other classic 
 shooter and contains capture the flag, team deathmatch, deathmatch and more. If you want a great, 
 fun and rock solid ww2 gaming experience that instantly will become a classic in your collection, 
 by all means get Call of Duty 2. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mega-Tom
Rating: 10
Date: May 30, 2008 1:55 pm PT
Review:  Call of Duty 2 is simply amazing. 
  
  Story - Great and very accurate story mode that puts you right into the thick of things from the 
 start. There are like the first game 3 different stories to play that are all linked together very 
 pressivley. The Americans, British and Russian. 
  
  Graphics and Models - The graphics have improved in COD2 vastly from COD and they are simply incredible. 
 To some they may be dated but cummon' you have to admit it, there still really good. Models in 
 the game are also excellent, weapons feel and perform perfectly and character movements have also 
 improved over COD, solidiers move and fall like a real person would, when they run away from grenades 
 and things of this nature they do look a little off, as if they have craped there pants... litrally.
 
  
  Multiplayer - Online is fantastic and very satisfying. There are some of the best maps you can 
 hope for with this games MP ranging from wide open field and small towns. Personal faverout is 
 Carentan, it's a perfect map. 
  
  Overall this game is a must buy with an excellent story mode and even better MP mode whats not 
 to like? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JPSmonkey111
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 4, 2008 8:22 pm PT
Review:  So, you own Call of Duty 4, son? You think you've seen it all. Think again, buddy. 'Cause if you 
 haven't played Call of Duty 2, then your missing out on a whole lotta seriously intense gameplay.
 
  
  First or second best in series, Call of Duty 2 is a bang. It excels on all catagories, leaving 
 other Call of Duty games in the dust. Yea, I said it. Call of Duty 4 rocks, but it does not stand 
 the winds of time like Call of Duty 2. We will be playing this monster till hell freezes over.
 
  
  We all know Call of Duty 2 is outdated by two games, Call of Duty 3, and Call of Duty 4. So you 
 might think that Call of Duty's 2 graphics might suck? Think again. The visuals are mind numbing. 
 Suprisingly, there better than Call of Duty 3, which was a console only, explaining its poor graphics, 
 because consoles can only display so much. Computers, on the other hand, are a different story. 
 Pump up anti-aliasing to 16x, Textures to "Very High", Vsync on, and particles "high", you have 
 one heck of a game. This may not have the lighting effects of Call of Duty 4, but they rock. Super 
 sharp gameplay graphics. It will leave you with a whole different prespective on good graphics. 
 
  
  Graphics don't make a good game, as your NES and grandmother will tell you. But Call of Duty combines 
 good graphics and good gameplay. The frame rate is great, aiming is near perfect, and the controls 
 are the best for any shooter availiable on PC. 
  
  What about the story, you ask? Well I'll tell you, I say. The story is intense, filled with violence, 
 blood, and soldier language. Whats better, wot wot? Get ready to feel as you are a soldier. Nonetheless, 
 the story was to short. Although it spanned four campaigns, it was short and abrupt. You crave 
 more by the end. Luckly, the gaming community has you covered, as there are hundreds of downloadable 
 maps online at sites like "Call of Duty Filefront". These user maps offer intense action, and relive 
 the campaign. 
  
  No good shooting game is complete without a amazing online mode. Call of Duty 2's online rivals 
 Call of Duty 4's, and some will tell you it is even better than Call of Duty 4's. Not sure about 
 that, about Call of Duty 2 features 64 player online, in vast levels, with a nice amount of guns. 
 Whats better, is that more than half of the servers are modded, meaning no matter what server you 
 log on, the feeling will be different every time. Custom maps, weapons, skins, gameplay, features, 
 blood, gore are only a few of the mods out there for Call of Duty 2 online. I recommend United 
 Noobs server, which offers new blood, gore, and trip wires. Also great is the Christian server, 
 which has exclusive maps like "Rats". 
  
  Also, the difficulty is just right on the normal difficulty, and on the hardcore mode, 5 shots 
 will kill you. One of the most realistic difficulty I have ever seen. 
  
  In the end, buy this frikin' game and you won't regret it. So buy it, man. C'mon man, buy it, man. 
 Mon. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Yorro
Rating: 9
Date: May 19, 2008 4:51 am PT
Review:  While the PC gaming industry floods it's market with dozens of World War II games, Call of Duty 
 2 is a refreshing taste. The game makes the impression that this is not another World War II Shooter 
 clone, by not repeating what others have done. Call of Duty 2 stays with the formula that made 
 the awesome games before.
  
  The game's graphics is very realistic. Fully detailed environment looks nice. And there are many 
 new features such as High-Dynamic-Ranging that makes the light look more radiant. Volumetric Smoke 
 is also added to give realism to the battlefield, like smoke that is produced from large explosions 
 which engulfs the whole area, creating a less visible place.
  
  Although the graphics of this game is very believable, the gameplay experience is not very realistic. 
 Enemy aiming is impossible such as they can hit you with there machine gun firing at full rate 
 at five miles away, while you barely hit them with a sniper rifle. Enemy death animation tends 
 to repeat itself over and over again and does not take long to find out.
  
  Sounds were amazing and fits directly to each battle scenes giving you the feel of battle. Voice 
 speeches were also superb, and the quality is great.
  
  The single player campaign is divided into three separate stories that spans over different parts 
 of Europe during World War II. Each has their own style and story.
  
  The gameplay is very intense because of the large battles that takes place. The missions varies 
 from repairing telephone wires to driving a tank and engaging other tanks as well. And while you 
 try to complete your objective, there are also other battles that is currently happening, like 
 planes fighting in the sky or tanks exchanging shells, in which makes you feel that you are not 
 alone.
  
  There are a wide range of weapons in your arsenal, but nothing you haven't seen before in a World 
 War II game. All weapons are fun to use, with each have different firing effects that has advantages 
 and disadvantages. 
  
  You will be participating in a dozens of historical moments, missions so large that you can even 
 feel the rush as if you are a part of it.
  
  The AI is impressive for both friend and foe. Friendly AI has the ability to move from one place 
 to another using obstacles and picks up the thrown grenade and tries to throw it back, they are 
 also capable of speaking to you the information on the location of the enemy. Enemy AI has the 
 skill of hiding on obstacles when fired upon, they also run when you throw them a grenade.
  
  Although the game is not actually free roaming, there are a multiple ways of approaching and 
 completing the mission. You can attack directly upfront using obstacles as cover or use your friendly's 
 suppressing fire. You can swing at the backdoor while your allies attracts their attention at the 
 front.
  
  One of the unique elements of the game is that there is no longer a healthbar. When you get shot 
 and continues to take damage, your vision gets blurry and you will die. But if you take a lot of 
 damage and you run for cover, you will automatically recover as your vision clears.
  
  
  Call of Duty 2 is highly recommended to those who like Call of Duty 1. This is also recommended 
 to all, fans of shooters or not.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Grallis
Rating: 8
Date: May 6, 2008 1:53 pm PT
Review:  Let me start off by saying I'm a huge fan of the Call of Duty series. I bought the original shortly 
 after it first came out, and was more than impressed. The game's single player campaign was amazing 
 and the multiplayer waa some of the funnest I'd ever played. Zoom ahead to May 2008. I pick up 
 Call of Duty 2 years after its release, having bought it a first time a few years back, but even 
 thought easily meeting the required specs, I couldnt play the game at all so I returned it. I recently 
 bought a new video card: Radeon HD 3850 512 DDR3. I had purchased Team Fortress 2 and it ran quite 
 smoothly, so I decided to finally try out Call of Duty 2 again, and I have to say, I was let down 
 a bit.
  
  I'll say that the gameplay and atmosphere was amazing, thoguh at times lacking, but no big deal 
 ... all in all, a great game. The part that killed me was that even with a newer system and video 
 card that killed the required specs, the gameplay would still dive into the 18fps area during heavy 
 weather and fire. This is fairly unacceptable as it makes busy battles extremely hard to conquer. 
 I felt the missions and atmosphere were great, and even the graphics and sound overall were good 
 but a few things really got on my nerves.
  
  The framerate problem mentioned above firstly. Secondly, the lack of death styles, gore and body 
 mechanics made it feel like a game from 7 years ago ... maybe even felt like the original Call 
 of Duty. The lack of voice overs started to get annoying. It's not long before you realize all 
 the soldiers say the same things over and over again. When compared to a game like Farcry, where 
 the enemy soldiers seem to speak endlessly, it feels pretty lame. 
  
  All in all Call of Duty 2 was a great gaming experience, with a few hitches, and a minor let down 
 in my opinion. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thenewau25
Rating: 7.5
Date: Apr 13, 2008 12:52 pm PT
Review:  ok so first this game sucks compared to the first cod masterpiece or even 3
  the game rellies more on graphs and the sight view or the slow mo after death and the health system 
 mostly its its gameplay let me down so let me begin,
  
  graphs great graphs smoke reflections detail
  sound great sound weapon sounds and the voices 
 of your squad mates, eg jerries behind the barrel, ok now the good points end like that you can 
 paly with any faction expect geramans and now for the bad stuff !
  
  no physics, i read the review and the agressive AI thing is NOT cool ask you grand parents and 
 watc a movie have you ever seen a german jump left to avoid your shots or the take cover, which 
 is a cool thing, BUT they stand up and hit you before even aim in 10000 miles no sprint button 
 so take fire when you seek cover and the zoom effect doesnt help when you trying to clear a room 
 also the recoil is cool for mp bu in sp well jerries are unkillable so i shoot someone with a rifle 
 he falls down and gets up again i shoot him again and he draws a pistol and hits me from 10000 
 miles WHILE I CANT HIT HIM WITH A SNIPER RIFLE..... that easily and auto aimed so i jump out the 
 window and hit him with my rifle DIE DIE DIE DIE FOR STALINS SHAKE DIE, ehmm i was in the first 
 russian levels so i got to say that scene with the smoke and the cool music and th sniper rifle 
 in the second level.... is DUMB DUMB DUMB why becasue my com-rades dont stop them but they climb 
 up the window and blow upa apart ehmm its called defend come on you can do it! 
  
  SO cod2 is a not very realisitc gameplay experienece that story and levels are not as cool as the 
 previous the guns dont cause damage the red screen and view jump every time you get shoted is annoying 
 and doenst give you that fighting feeling of taking cover and realism especially in the enemies 
 shoot and wait a mile second to shoot again acuradly to finish them is not cool and levels and 
 sutiation arent cool you cant paly tacticaly and feel small levels with hundrends of respawning 
 eneimes is meaga dumb it turns of realism you cant set 50 germans in one bulding or try to defend 
 one from 1000 jeries try to understand me cod1 and moh pacific assault are better for me its just 
 doesnt feel that cool it doenst fell real but
  
  cod2 is a fan nazi killer and has great and VERY realistic multipalyer! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ishoturface
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 8, 2008 12:21 pm PT
Review:  Call of duty 2 is a sequel to 2003's call of duty which had a great campaign and awesome multiplayer, 
 and call of duty 2 follows right in its footsteps with that same great campaign and awesome multiplayer.
 
  
  In call of duty 2's campaign you will follow the storys of three men from three different countries 
 russia, england and America and have the chance to play each of the three characters. In the russian 
 campaign you are on the famous (or infamous) russian front dealing with lots of nazis trying to 
 take over your homeland (russia) , in the british campaign (england) you follow the life of a soldier 
 in northern africa fighting against, yes nazis, and in the American campaign you play as a Army 
 ranger before, during and after d-day. This time in the campaign the missions are based on the 
 period of time such as the first mission you play as a russian soldier (since the russians were 
 the first to fight against the nazis in WWII and then later on you will play as the american soldier 
 on the d-day invasion (since d-day came four years after the russians started fighting the nazis. 
 The campaign spans through three campaigns and about 25 missions even though most of the missions 
 are short you will want to do them over and over again.
  
  
  The multiplayer is no doubt the best part of the game With plenty of maps some old and some new 
 it is just plain fun and awesome (you can play with up to 32 players on a server but with some 
 mods you can play with up to 64) . the game modes in multiplayer are your basic modes you would 
 find in almost any shooter but call of duty does something to make them even better such as capture 
 the flag, deathmatch, team deathmatch, search and destroy, an elimination type game mode where 
 you only get on life per round and can not respawn until next round if you die. There is something 
 is the multiplayer that makes this game just awesome and what it is i just really dont know.
  
  
  The graphics are just amazing and perfect even though you will get lag you if you have 
 a slow PC but you can tone down the graphics so that there is none.
  
  The sound is also amazing from the soundtrack to the guns which have they're own sound and you 
 can even hear the bullets as the whiz by your head.
  
  
  No matter who you are or what type of pc you have you need to get this game.
  
  Singleplayer: 
 9.5/10
  Multiplayer: 10/10
  Graphics: 10/10
  Sound: 9.8/10
  funnessfactor: 10/10
  gameplay: 9.7/10
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: gixkaizer
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 28, 2008 2:06 am PT
Review:  Call of duty 2 also known as cod2 can be played as single player and Multiplayer.
  
  Call of duty 2 starts in the single player with a training session in Russia when the war is busy. 
 In this training you are Private Koslov. You need to do this Training and then very quickly your 
 first mission starts. By this mission you learn how to use your weapons and you know the right 
 buttons on the keyboard.
  
  There are 3 Head campaigns : Russian , British and American.
  
  These head campaigns are done in different sub missions : 3 missions for each campaign and 
 that missions are in 4-5 sub missions that go in parts to complete each mission.
  
  When you played out a mission , you become on a new load screen in a diary version. There you get 
 a little bit info of what will happen.
  
  In the Russian campaign you play in Russia.
  In The British you play in North Africa and France
  In the American you play in France and Germany.
 
  
  There are 4 difficulties in the game : Easy , Regular , Harden and Veteran.
  
  The only negative point is that there are not to much missions.
  I really hoped there were like 
 5 missions more.
  
  The multiplayer is really nice to. You can play in game features like : team deathmatch , deathmatch 
 , headquarters , search and destroy , capture the flag , ...
  Now there is already a new feature called Zombie , if you ever find that one on your join game 
 list then really check it.
  
  In the Multiplayer you have like 15 custom maps and you will see when you play them that they look 
 like the single player only with some things different.
  
  This game is very very nice and is worth to play.
  
  Have fun 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: mircea_calarasu
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 22, 2008 11:34 am PT
Review:  I played this game and boy did I feel good.
  
  Gameplay: You play as a soldier and you are playing a part in WW2 and you are trying to protect 
 your country from getting their butts kick. You have all the same things as the original game but 
 this time you have like 8 campaigns. Each with an army you choose and each of them are very long.
 
  
  Graphics: Beautiful. Now that this game is played in a dvd-rom and not on a cd-rom, The players 
 look unbelievable, the areas are beautiful and the weapons are amazing.
  
  Sound: You get this WW sound that sounds beautiful. The weapons sound nice but their aren't the 
 best out there.
  
  Value: You can play for hours and hours trying to finish each campaign in the hardest difficulties. 
 I forgot to mention that there is an online feature in this game that is beautiful and it can last 
 forever.
  
  Reviewer's tilt: Overall this is a beautiful WW2 game and you should definitely buy this game at 
 all cost. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JesusFreak1990
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 16, 2008 10:12 pm PT
Review:  Call Of Duty 2 is a masterpiece, and I personally think it is the best WWII game in existence. 
 This is a game that any first person shooter fan or history buff should own. Read on to find out 
 why I think so highly of this game.
  
  Story: The story is, of course, based on WWII. You start the game as a Russian soldier in training 
 who soon finds himself in the middle of a battle to defend his ground against invading Nazis. Eventually 
 you will fight as a British soldier, and then American. During the entire game you will switch 
 between these three soldiers. Between each mission there are short clips about WWII from the History 
 Channel, watching these will teach you more about the battles. 
  
  Gameplay: The gameplay of this game is fantastic. You have a wide array of weapons at your disposal, 
 such as the Thompson, MP44, and MP40 to name a few, and they are very fun to use. Sometimes when 
 you shoot a Nazi, he won't die right away but will draw a Luger (pistol) while on the ground and 
 make a last attempt to kill you and your fellow soldiers. It's things like that that really add 
 to the intensity of a battle. The only melee attack in this game is bashing your gun into someone, 
 not particularly entertaining, but effective nonetheless. One other thing you can do later is fight 
 in a tank as the British. Tank battles are intense and very fun, and filled with many explosions.
 
  
  My favorite level in this game is D-Day. That is on of the most intense battles in the entire game. 
 While on the shores on the D-Day level, you can shoot up a cliff at Nazis, and often they will 
 fall down off the cliff to a quick death.
  
  While this game may be very entertaining, you have to keep in mind the fact that many soldiers 
 really went through these gut-wrenching battles, and with far more horror than can ever be portrayed 
 in a game. In playing this game, try to honor the memory of those soldiers and what they did. Try 
 taking this game as a sort of history lesson.
  
  Graphics/Character Animations: This game has amazing graphics for the time it was made (2005) . 
 The faces of the models look very detailed, and their animations are smooth. The gun animations 
 are very smooth and detailed as well. The scenery in this game is good, but some of it could have 
 looked a little bit better.
  
  Sound: Phenomenal sound effects. Great sounds from the guns and the explosions. But the main highlight 
 of the sound is this game is the superb voice acting. During battle soldiers will talk back and 
 forth very often, and with about 20,000 speaking lines, dialogue is rarely repeated. Controls: The 
 keyboard controls are some of the best I have seen in PC first person shooter games. I have absolutely 
 no problem with the controls.
  
  Stability: This game has never crashed on me, but I have encountered a few glitches in all of the 
 time I have played. Nothing really worth mentioning though.
  
  Multi-player: The multi-player is pretty basic, but it is a load of fun. There are different online 
 modes such as TDM, DM, and CTF (team death match, death match, and capture the flag) . The most 
 common of these is TDM. There is an option for server to enable voice chatting, but on the servers 
 that have it enabled, no one uses it. One really cool thing in the multi-player that some servers 
 have, is called "Killcam". The Killcam shows you how your enemy killed you from their perspective 
 after you die.
  
  Appropriateness: If appropriateness is an issue with you, or if you have a child and are trying 
 to decide whether or not to let them play this game, take the following into consideration:
  
  There is blood, though, it's only a light mist and it quickly disappears. There is a lot of 
 swearing, though nothing beyond what you would hear on television (the worst word is the "B" word) . 
 And there is a lot of painful screaming from soldiers being killed on the battlefield.
  
  There are no swear blockers in the on-line mode, and because of this I have encountered nearly 
 every swear word imaginable.
  
  Also, some servers are modded and automatically install a mod to your game when you join. Some 
 of these mods will either increase the blood of the game drastically, or add a ton of gore and 
 decapitations to the game. But these modded servers can be filtered out when searching for servers.
 
  
  Replay Value: Once you beat the game, there is nothing to unlock and no extras. But it is so fun 
 that you won't care about that. There are 4 difficulty modes: Easy, Regular, Hardened, and Veteran. 
 I have beaten the game on every difficulty level and it is still extremely fun to play.
  
  Conclusion: This game does well to portray some of the horrors of war that the soldiers faced fighting 
 against the Nazis in World War Two. This game is too good for first person shooter fans and history 
 buffs to pass up. I have enjoyed it very much and will continue to do so. I consider this game 
 to be a masterpiece.
  
  My score: 9.5.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: adders11
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 27, 2008 8:28 am PT
Review:  COD2 is up there with the better WW2 shooters. With tons of single player missions and campaigns, 
 a good multiplayer mode, some of the most intense gameplay ever and, er, lots of smoke, this is 
 definitely one for a WW2 fan's collection!
  
  The game has a lot of campaigns letting you play as 3 armies: Britain, America and Russia. The 
 missions are fairly varied, and in a couple of the missions in the British campaign you get to 
 drive a tank which is cool. While it might just look like any old WW2 shooter, it is in fact way 
 more intense than most shooters, mainly because the battles are very big and you'll never be fighting 
 on your own meaning you dont feel much better than anyone else. The gameplay overall is what I 
 wanted from a WW2 shooter.
  
  Multiplayer next. Well, it isnt perfect of course but it is an enjoyable game mode. Not nearlly 
 as impressive as the single player though. Its fairly addictive but not amazing. Your getting the 
 general multiplayer modes: deathmatch, team deathmatch etc. Nothing special, but still fun.
  
  The graphics are really good on high in COD2. The smoke is excellent! The chracter modles are 
 great, the textures nice and crisp. Sound is superb as well. You wont need a particually powerful 
 PC to run the game on high either. The graphics are probably slightly better here on max than they 
 are on the 360 version.
  
  Overall every WW2 fan needs this and shooter fans will love it too. Could have been betetr if the 
 multiplayer was improved but oh well. The single-player is very memorable and intense.
  
  Pros:
  +Lenghy single-player spanning over 5 campaigns
  +Very intense, realistic combat
  
 +Great graphics and amazing sound
  +Good, solid multiplayer
  
  Cons:
  -Multiplayer could've been a bit better
  -AI above average, but not that great 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tommat119944
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 10, 2008 1:31 pm PT
Review:  This is just a fantastic game. Any PC and First Person Shooter fan worth his/her salt would own 
 this game. No question. Even now, and this day and age, with TWO sequels already out, this is a 
 good game to have in your collection. No, don't go saying Call of Duty 4 is better and that i have 
 no expierence, because i have both and am an avid fan of the 2.
  
  For me, and i'm sure not me alone, the movement to "Modern Warfare" was quite a disappointment. 
 I don't know why, but i always prefered the WWII setting. If i had to choose what 5 will be, it 
 will be Call of Duty 2 remade with all the modern tech and ideas that were implemented into Call 
 of Duty 4, eg. Create a Class, Perks, ranks ect.
  
  Ok, tim e to go back to the subject of Call of Duty 2. The single player was a bit short and could've 
 been a bit longer and went into a bit more detail on WWIIs history. Despite this, the campaign 
 was a great blast with the ability to play as the Russians, the British and the American troops, 
 in that order. The campaign had another great advantage, as the difficulty settings cater to both 
 casual and hardcore gamers alike. I found this fantastic since, at the time of purchase, I was 
 an extremely casual gamer and preferred the lower difficulty settings, but now that i go back to 
 the campaign, i prefer to try and beat the campaign on hardened-veteran, following my completion 
 of Call of Duty 4 on Veteran.
  
  Onto the multiplayer, in my opinion, this is REALLY where the game outdid itself. One of the best 
 things about it is everythings fair and defeating the opponent requires pure skill and good co-operation. 
 One of the main factors in comparison to more modern games is that's it's really fair because you 
 can only choose between certain weapons. That means the newest of players can defeat the most hard-core, 
 die-hard veteran at the game by using tactics and flanking.
  
  The maps... Well, there's a HUGE selection of them, and at the top of my head, none of them were 
 bad. Every one of them was unique yet very well-balanced and favours neither army. The only reason 
 you might favour either army is for something like a weapon exclusive to them eg. I favoured the 
 Germans as they had the MP44, my favourite gun in the game by far.
  Also, another fantastic.... reason to buy the game is that people still play it online! I mean, 
 after the best part of 3-4 years, i thought the community would've died, but theres still quite 
 a few games going. I just hope it stays that way since Call of Duty 2 is a game in my collection 
 for keeps.
  
  Final score:9.0
  Final notes: Call of Duty 2 is such a good game, one of the best when it was released, and even 
 to this day remains a fantastic game. The graphics are somewhat outdated, but are still enough 
 to please. The multiplayer is fun, addictive and well-balanced. All these things add up to make 
 this game what it is; revolutionary. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pletsky
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 1, 2008 8:25 am PT
Review:  I first played the multiplayer game with a friend, but once i bought it i got stuck on the single 
 player. It realy very good and if you want to play all the missions at all the difficulty levels, 
 its just long enough. You could have a few problems with the "multiplayer single player". I did 
 do an update of my singleplayer version, and if i wanted to go muli it doesn't work anymore, and 
 thats **** . So i reinstalled the game and could only play the singleplayer version. The game has 
 got a very good story and an explendid inventory of weapons. The only mission that activision should 
 put into the game is the D-day landing. There's a similar mission with the boats and all the stuff, 
 but you have to climb up to a wall and destroy a few cannons who could hit the D-day beaches....... 
 good scenario, but i prefer the real straight on attack on bunkers and the feeling that i am IN 
 the war, not a man who is helping the real guys. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gooper102
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 28, 2008 12:06 pm PT
Review:  You can play as Russian, British, American, German.
  Weapons are different, auto, semi-auto, rifle, sniper.
  Whole singleplayer game is based on Berlin 
 and defending of fellow nations.
  Multiplayer is Search&Destroy, plant the bomb, defuse the bomb,
  Deathmatch, kill everyone,
 
  Team Deathmatch, kill enemy and cover your friends,
  Capture the flag, capture enemy flag and bring it to your spawn point,
  Headquarters, capture 
 the radio and defend it from enemy over-take.
  Few bugs, not many, like jumping on roofs where no one can kill you, few plant bugs,...
  It's 
 lot of luck, like head-shot with last bullet,...
  Lots of repeating action, players take the same camp spots and make multiplayer boring.
  
  
 Great graphics.
  Almost realistic, jump from high building gives you little damage, more then one hit required to 
 kill an enemy, if not using rifle (which is kill in one hit in like 60%) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: smokedbeef
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 26, 2008 6:42 pm PT
Review:  First the Good Things:
  
  Gameplays: Awesome fun old gameplay of Call of Duty will suck you in. Nice introduction and presentation. 
 Great multiplayer game modes like CTF, Deathmatch, Team Death, etc. Great weapon selection in multiplayer.
 
  
  Sounds: Realistic and great weapon sounds. Voice actings are amazing.
  
  Systems: Just Right system requirements
  
  Graphics: Greats graphics and especially the player 
 models.
  
  The Bad Things:
  
  Gameplay: Could get a bit repetitive. Shotgun could get really rigged in many times.
  
  Sounds: 
 None
  
  Systems: Few crashes 
  
  Graphics: (For me) some complications on setting the graphics. (not a lot)
  
  OVerall: Overall 
 awesome game that you should really try. Great grpahics, gameplay, etc. But shotgun could haave 
 benn more balanced out and the few crashes could havent been fixed (if possible) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wiredscotty
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 23, 2008 8:01 pm PT
Review:  Alright. I'm going to admit something. And it might not be pretty.... here it goes. 
  
  This was the first FPS I've played since the early days of Wolfenstein. There. I said it. And it 
 feels good to have said it. 
  
  I needed to put that out there, because maybe it skews my review of this game. But I don't really 
 care. I'm saying this game is amazing. Probably one of the best games I have ever played. 
  
  When I first played this game I was blown away. I was tossed right into WWII. I felt like I 
 was in the middle of an actual war. Bullets were whizzing by my head and my teammates were yelling 
 at me to move my ass. And since I felt like I was in a real war, I did what I would probably do 
 in a real war. Hide in a corner. Hide and wait for my teammates to do my job for me. And it was 
 exciting. Eventually I got the courage to go forth and shoot my own nazis, or krauts, or jerries, 
 or fritz, or whatever derogatory name was being yelled in the firefights. And when I killed an 
 evil German of my very own, it felt REALLY good. 
  
  Everything about the game made it feel real. The graphics are amazing. The sounds of gunfire in 
 the distance really help you immerse in the war torn world. The effects are breathtaking. And the 
 gameplay is awesome. The game is set up to MAKE you move your cowardly ass. If you're hding for 
 too long, the naz-holes throw a grenade at you and make you move either towards the danger like 
 a real soldier should... or away from the danger like a real wuss should. 
  
  It's also great how the game breaks things up by giving you three different characters to play 
 as. An American, an Englishman, or a Russian. All of which have interesting NPC's around you, making 
 you even care for your fellow brothers-in-arms. You play through the desert in Africa, throughout 
 the invasion in Russia, and at Point du hoc... which nearly made me cry. it was THAT scary.
  
  This was the first game in a very long time that made me actually feel like I was in another 
 world. I would turn off the lights, turn up the sound and then shoot my way through men who hated 
 me. I would curse and scream and yell... my wife would come in and ask me what the hell I was doing. 
 I would tell her to shut-up and leave me to play my silly games. She would tell me to make my own 
 dinner then. And I would tell her that I don't need to eat anymore, because I was killing nazi's. 
 Rage was my food now. (I would then go to her later and apologize because I'm a lover AND a fighter.)
 
  
  I found very little to be wrong with this game... just a little chug now and then. That's about 
 it. I would highly recommend this game to anyone. It's one of the funnest games I've ever experienced. 
 I've played it quite a few times and everytime I do, I have a blast. So if you want to have a really 
 good time, and need a little boost to make you feel more manly, you can either go to a bar and 
 punch someone in the throat... or play this game. I recommend playing the game because you won't 
 get arrested. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: biggest_loser
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 22, 2008 2:54 pm PT
Review:  The original Call of Duty was a stunning World War II shooter in the vein of Medal of Honour: Allied 
 Assault. Many praised it for its intense game play, technical feats and varied missions. This is 
 the latest instalment in the series and it's a near perfect example of what a sequel should be. 
 A continuation of what made the original so great while also improving on what was amiss. 
  
  Again from the eyes of the Russian, British and American troops in World War II you're sent 
 into battle against the Nazi war machine.
  Each of the ten missions on offer is broken down into numerous stages and there is now footage 
 at the beginning of each as an assessment of what is happening. 
  
  Much of the game play is the same as the original. You'll follow a compass point to an objective 
 where you may have to grab a document, plant a bomb or just defend a position. A notable difference 
 though is in your health system. You can some damage and if you manage to survive you can rest 
 for a moment for your health to replenish. Some have attacked this feature as unrealistic but it 
 actually works surprisingly well here to keep up the pace. You also don't have to worry about health 
 packs or not having enough health at a save point. 
  
  Another enhancement is the introduction of smoke grenades. Used to provide concealment against 
 the enemy in order to make advancements smoke grenades not only look sensational with photo realistic 
 particle affects, but they also add some tactics to the already challenging combat. 
  
  It's pleasing to see that the intelligent AI of the original has stuck around. In some ways it's 
 better than ever! Your Nazi opponents are more aggressive than ever before as they will more frequently 
 bombard you with grenades, while still making the best use of cover. They are sneaky in the way 
 they hide and also in the way they lift their heads to take shots at you. Their ability to recognise 
 grenades and almost always chuck them back also adds to the excitement and tension of battles. 
 
  
  Fortunately your squad mates will perform just as realistically though, and thanks to the new Battle 
 Chat system they seem more human than ever before. NPC characters can communicate with one another 
 and react accordingly to the environment. Several thousands of lines of dialogue were recorded, 
 so they can recognise everything from enemy grenades to hidden troops. It makes the game seem so 
 much more realistic and alive. 
  
  One of the complaints of the original Call of Duty was its linearity. Infinity Ward has not only 
 recognised this but also gone to lengths to make sure that the sequel has both multiple pathways 
 and a more open and expanded battlefield. It's a nice touch that not only adds a larger scale to 
 maps but also the possibility of replay value. On certain missions you may even have multiple objectives 
 to complete. Unlike the original game though these can be completed in any order whatsoever. 
 
  
  Call of Duty 2 doesn't lag under the hood either. The game is strikingly beautiful with some superb 
 animations and explosion effects. While the environments, from the deserts of North Africa to the 
 crumbling ruins of Stalingrad, are all gorgeously rendered. The sound effects, crucial to adding 
 the intensity of battle, are again brilliant from the gunfire and explosions to the lovely musical 
 score that seeps with the completion of a mission. It's an awesome touch. Some will be quick to 
 argue that this is purely more of the same. While indeed Call of Duty 2 is quite familiar, the 
 new features and engine are just amazing and make the game so bloody enjoyable. It's a challenging, 
 lengthy game that comes alive through its technology and pitch perfect atmosphere, that details 
 war is hell. A fine example of how a sequel should be done. One of the years best. 
  
  
  For: 
  
  Suitable challenge. 
  Looks and sounds brilliant. 
  A whole lot of fun. 
  
 
  Against: 
  
  More of the same, but who cares? 
  
  
  Verdict: 
  
  Call of Duty 2 improves over its predecessor in so many ways and stands by itself as a very complete 
 and polished game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bthrustr
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 21, 2008 8:02 pm PT
Review:  I rather enjoyed this return to some of the classic battles of WWII. This installment ran a bit 
 longer than the first game and the United Forces add-on. The gameplay was similar but with a few 
 improvements. Smoke grenades can be used to advance across open ground. A grenade indicator lets 
 you know when you've got a grenade in your area.
  
  The battles are never dull and you once again get the feeling that you're working with your comrades 
 as a team for the most part. The horrors of war are particularly pronounced with the storming of 
 the beach while well armed enemy forces take down your fellow soldiers with ease as you attempt 
 to scale the cliffs to battle them.
  
  Other than a slight improvement in graphics (or was that because I finally upgraded my system?) , 
 it's really just more of the same. You'll be able to jump right in if you've played the others. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CoD_killeru
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 13, 2008 1:06 pm PT
Review:  This game is one of the most greatest games from Activision. The graphics, the sound, the gameplay 
 are awesome. The single player campaign is not very glamorous, but the multiplayer is the best 
 of the best.
  Well, at single player you have 3 campaignes: Russian, British and American (like other Call of 
 Duty games) .
  
  In the beginning you will learn very much of the combat situation. The 'Red Army Training' will 
 teach you how to use your grenades and weapons. But in the next mission of 'The Winter War' ('Demolition') 
 you will find out the binoculars (new for Call of Duty) .
  In the Rest of the Russian campaign you will have to use explosives and sniper rifles.
  
  75% 
 of the Brittish campaign is concentrated in the North Africa (Egypt, Libya and Tunisia) . Here you 
 will use tanks for the first time in the Call of Duty 2 (here you will be Tank Commander David 
 Welsh 'Fox Three') .
  The finish of the Brittish campaign is 'The Battle for Caen', in Normandy.
  
  The American 
 campaign starts in the D-Day (Operation Overlord) , at Pointe du Hoc, and finish at Wallendar, in 
 Germany.
  
  Overall, this game must be played. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Anitrex
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 3, 2008 2:37 am PT
Review:  *CallOfDuty 2*
  
  It seems as though we have been at war in WWII games for longer than the real war. When the first 
 Call of Duty came on the market, it was one of the best WWII FPS games in a category that was already 
 overflowing with games. It had a great single player campaign, gritty and hectic combat, amazing 
 sound effects and a very enjoyable multiplayer. If you were a fan of the original game, you will 
 be pleased to know that Acitvision has brought all of those aspects to COD2. Any Call of Duty addict 
 will easily become very addicted to COD2, and hopefully the new girlfriend will be more understanding 
 of that addiction.
  
  The game is set in the world during World War II, just like the first game. And just like the original, 
 you will be placed in the combat boots of different individual soldiers fighting for the various 
 allied armies, those being the British, American and Soviet armies. You will play through various 
 missions for each of the armies following the path of the war as it swept across Europe. You get 
 to start off as a lowly private in the Soviet army, fighting off the Germans in Stalingrad and 
 Moscow. After completing the first mission, you will unlock the first British mission where you 
 get to fight in the harsh North African Dessert. After fighting your way through the countryside 
 of Caen, France you will get to move onto the American campaign. You will become a corporal in 
 the US Army climbing up the cliff faces of the Pointe du Hoc as bullets stream by. That gave me 
 such a rush that I had to take a break from the game in order to calm down a bit.
  
  The game allows you to select the difficulty level for each of the 10 missions if you get to a 
 part where you can not beat at the difficulty level you are at. For me, playing at regular difficulty, 
 I found it quite easy to breeze through most of the missions. It could easily be finish in less 
 than 10 hours at the regular setting and probably 6 or less if you want to wuss out on easy. As 
 you up the difficulty passed regular you will find that the game gets significantly harder. You 
 will really have to slow your pace down by peaking around every corner instead of just running 
 in. This makes the game much more enjoyable if you want a challenge and to extend your purchase 
 well passed the 10 hours. 
  
  After you have jumped into your first mission, you will quickly notice that the game plays very 
 similar to the original. You will normally have a squad leader giving you instructions as to what 
 you are supposed to do during different point in a particular mission. You will also be joined 
 by a squad of NPCs. In the original, I found that they were only good for helping you find out 
 where enemy positions were by getting killed beside you. In COD2, I noticed that they would actually 
 help me kill the Germans quite a bit. As long as I was actively fighting my way through the mission, 
 they would take out quite a few enemies along side of me instead of just being bullet magnets. 
 This added a lot to the realism of the game for me, since most games do not script their NPCs very 
 well in those situations. Another thing you will notice from the original is that you can only 
 have 2 weapons at a time, which was a great idea in my opinion. Having an endless arsenal on your 
 back is just unrealistic. While the COD series only allows you the 2 weapons, you can still drop 
 and pick up any new or different weapon that was on one of your squad mates or enemies. Which allows 
 you to equip your self for a good number of situations? My favorite combination is the PPS machine 
 gun for the up close fighting in the Soviet missions with a KAR98 German rifle to pick off the 
 pesky enemies from a distance if needed.
  
  The programmers were able to fix one problem that has always bothered me in games similar to this 
 one. That is the endless streaming of enemies unlit you pass a specific point on the map. In COD2, 
 the enemies will eventually stop spawning after you have killed enough of them. This makes the 
 game way more fun to play, because you can concentrate on killing instead of just advancing far 
 enough to stop the spawning.
  
  Ahhh yes, the gameplay. How can I put this? Extremely intense! No matter what mission or campaign 
 you are in, you will have your heart pounding and your eyes glued to the screen. The enemies have 
 quite deadly accuracy if you give them a target to shoot at and if you are in the open, even if 
 it behind an enemy, they will turn directly at you and open fire. With no health packs in the game, 
 you can find yourself in some pretty hairy situations that get the adrenaline flowing. In one of 
 the Soviet missions you are crawling through a pipe (like in the movie Enemy at the Gates) with 
 a few comrades when all of a sudden the pipe is rattled with bullets and your comrades are no more. 
 Scared the living hell out of me so bad that I screamed out loud. The enormous amount of "potato-mashers" 
 that are thrown at your, the streams of MG-42 bullets and the yelling of orders from both sides 
 will keep you glued to the edge of your seat just like any good WWII movie fire fight scene.
  
  I mentioned that there is no health packs in COD2, just like the original did not have any. 
 Instead, if you get behind cover you will regenerate health even if you were just shot point blank 
 in the chest a few times. This has its good and bad about it. It keeps the game moving along instead 
 of always looking for health packs when you are low on health, which is a real good thing. The 
 bad thing is that, you are almost invincible. As long as you employ the tactic of being near something 
 that you can hide behind, you will almost never die in the game. Which to me did not give me the 
 same sense of impending death by the next bullet that hits me, instead it just made it feel like 
 I could never die. But with being invincible, it allows you to do things in the game that you would 
 normally not do, like rush a group of 3-4 Germans. As long as you can kill them, it did not matter 
 how many times you were shot, you could just rest a second and you get to rush another room full 
 of Germans. Even at the higher difficulty setting, as long as you figure out how much damage you 
 can take before dying, you can always fully recover from any firefight as long as you rest.
  
  The only thing you can not do is sit your butt on a grenade; they will kill you if you are 
 too close. I think the Germans actually know that about the game since they chuck tons of grenades 
 at you. You do get a little indicator that pops up on your screen showing you that a grenade is 
 near you and it has a little arrow telling you where the grenade is relative to you, allowing you 
 to run the other way. Your squad mates do not seem to have this little indicator as they die a 
 lot by way of grenade explosions, but not to worry a new squad mate will show up to replace the 
 newly dead one in no time.
  
  The graphics and sound in Call of Duty were impressive for it's time but with COD2 the graphics 
 blow the original out of the water. I found myself with a wide open jaw many times as I played 
 through the missions. Even with all the settings turned down, the textures and sounds were so good 
 it felt like I was in a movie theater instead of playing a game. The designer's attention to detail 
 is amazing and the little things that they add to keep you in character just makes you feel like 
 you are really there. Having bombers flying over head, fighter planes having dog fights above you, 
 the sound of the wheels turning on a tank, the metallic clinks as bullets bounce off metal, and 
 the think black smoke from a smoke grenade. All of this just sucks you into the feeling of being 
 that soldier that you are playing. They even allow you a few brief moments of calm in order to 
 actually take in some of these extras to the game, which is very nice since most games you barely 
 get to enjoy the scenery during the course of battle.
  
  The single player game will fill any needs that a WWII fps fan has, that is where we move into 
 multiplayer mode. The multiplayer component is very similar to the original in all aspects, except 
 the pace of the game. In the original there was a steady pace to all maps and type of multiplayer 
 games. In the new COD2, the pace of the game seems to be ramped up a few notches. This makes for 
 a more visceral multiplayer game with more carnage and fast paced action.
  
  The game comes with 13 maps, including 3 remakes from the original COD. Up to 32 players can play 
 on a server at one time as well as having VOIP chat and 2 weapons that are not available in single 
 player mode. You can play deathmatch, team deathmatch, Capture the flag, search and destroy (where 
 one team has to plant a bomb at one of the other teams two objectives in order to blow it up) and 
 mode called headquarters. In this mode there are two different points on the map designated as 
 capture points for each team. In order to score points a team must control and "setup" headquarters 
 at one of these capture points. Once they have done that, they must defend that headquarters. The 
 longer they can keep the headquarters from being taken, the more points they get. The interesting 
 twist is that if you die while on the defending team, you are not allowed to respawn until your 
 headquarters is taken over by the other team, while the attacking team still gets to respawn. This 
 means that as you defend your headquarters, you have less team mates to help you as they slowly 
 get killed. Always a pain being the last defender alive. Once taken over, the capture points are 
 changed to new locations and it starts all over again. This is a very fun mode to play and is always 
 changing.
  
  The weapons are still very balanced in the normal fashion of WWII fps games. You have your sub-machine 
 guns, your bolt action rifles, semiautomatic rifles, shotgun, assault rifles and your sniper rifles. 
 The grenades are the same as in single player and depending on the weapon you choose, you will 
 get a different amount of grenades. The smoke grenades are very effective in multiplayer and sometimes 
 a little effective with some maps turning into a giant forest fire of smoke. The weapons and damage 
 model is a little higher in multiplayer so you will find that you will die from a lot less bullets 
 than you did when playing single player. All the level seem very balanced for all the weapons but 
 with the slightly faster pace, I found it hard to try and camp any where. The action is always 
 happening and finding a good spot to plop myself was very difficult. That is something that I find 
 refreshing.
  
  Top game moment: Crawling through pipes as a soviet soldier with bullets turning the pipe into 
 swiss cheese. 
  
  I would have to say that Call of Duty 2 continues the great game play that the original Call of 
 Duty started. The graphics and sounds are intense, the single player campaign is extremely compelling, 
 the multiplayer is fast paced fun and the overall game play is down right awesome. For any gamer 
 that wants to spend the next few months in World War II, I suggest you get this game. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: mac631
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 27, 2007 2:37 am PT
Review:  Gameplay: 7/10 - simple shooter comes with only few kinds of guns (this is WW2 game so, well) Good 
 experience overall while the binocular/sniper view is pathetic.
  
  Graphic: 10/10 - look prefect only with MAX settings (well at least it CAN be look prefect) Raining 
 could be better.
  
  Sound: 9/10 - somewhat realistic WW2 sound, ranging from the rifle's shooting to the annoying mortar. 
 Yeah, the victory music is good too
  
  Value: 8/10 - SP could be beaten in 1 day, how about its large population of players MP? That's 
 last forever as long as you never get boring of it.
  
  Tilts: 5/10 - SP is forgettable, MP gives u unlimited time of playing. However if u like getting 
 a COD game, forget this and get a COD4. Greater graphic and expect a superb MP like COD2.
  
  Overall: COD2 delivers a normal length and a good quality SP, but it doesn't make u love of 
 it and forgettable. The true strength in COD2 is its MP. Well, since it still having a huge population 
 of players online, it still worth to buy today. Might consider COD4 first over this. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mattyphair2K7
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 24, 2007 6:05 am PT
Review:  Even with the release of Call of Duty 4, Halo 3, Bioshock and other great first person shooter games, 
 this game will still remain one of the best ever first person shooters!
  
  The single player is very good graphics with a huge selection of weopens. In the single player 
 throughout the game you fight the Nazis in different countries. In the first stage of the single 
 player you are Russian then you play as a British solider and then an American solider. The single 
 player could have been a bit longer but it is still a great game.
  
  The muliplayer is amazing as it usually is, after a while you will get addicited to the multiplayer 
 as it is so fun.
  
  So if you like first person shooter games that are set in the middle of World War Two then this 
 is the game for you.
  
  I have given this game a rating of 9.5 because everything about it is extremely good. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zakld
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 12, 2007 4:51 pm PT
Review:  Well, I'm writing this and it's been quite a while after I've played it. To be perfectly honest, 
 so many good games have been made on this topic that I've mixed them all up and don't know which 
 one this is. These games are all linear but still very well done and I couldp lay them no matter 
 how many of them they make. 
  
  So, I won't be specific and I will mark / rank all of the games on of this genre with the same 
 mark of 9.0 as I think they are all incredible but it is really hard to have a game worth 10 on 
 this usbject matter as long as they are linear. 
  
  The only game that will get 9.5 will be Brother in Arms: Earned in Blood 
  
  
  
  My marking 
 system is as follows:
  
  10 - Absolute Legend
  9 - Must Be Played
  8 - Excellent and Worth Your Time
  7 - Worth playing if you have nothing else to play
  6 - 
 worh playing if you have nothing to play and are incredbly bored and have not got absolutely anything 
 else to do. (Barely playable/enjoyable) . 
  
  I don't give marks 1-5 as if a game starts sucking I don't finish it, so I only review the games 
 that are barely playable (6) to the absolutely amazingly incredible ones (10) .
  
  I will also probably keep my reviews short as I don't like discovering too much about the gameplay. 
 I only like to give my quick opinion and get on with life.
  
  Best Wishes to everyone,
  
  Zak 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gauravfox
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 9, 2007 11:28 pm PT
Review:  Call Of Duty 2
  This here is a Classic World War 2 battle.... takes the player into the shoes of soldiers in every 
 country that was against the German assault. the best in the series is what i have to say. the gameplay 
 is absolutely amazing, the environments and the characters are perfectly built. The guns are cool 
 too and the AI solders are pretty good and gives the perfect War situation. the graphics are very 
 good and, i gotta say ... no twitches and tweaks at all... a good graphics card on the motherboard 
 will give you the experience of the life time...!!! the sounds and voice are Neat... The gameplay 
 is just right.... the difficulty is challenging as well.. the sound and voice effects are perfect 
 ! over all this game gives the perfect depiction of the world war 2 scenario.... and for the developers 
 and the designers of Call Of Duty 2..... Two Thumbs up guys... great job.....! the war heroes will 
 be proud of ya...! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: coltspwn
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 9, 2007 9:29 am PT
Review:  Many people wondered how, after Call of Duty 1, Activision could make Call of Duty 2 better. Well, 
 my friends, they have, without excluding anything important from the first installment. The graphics 
 received an overhaul, which you notice from the moment you start playing. The game play remains 
 relatively the same, with a few minor tweaks. One, the health system has graduated from health 
 packs to regenerative health. That's right, no more searching across the map for health packs. 
 After playing the first few missions, you can't help but notice that COD2 is much more streamlined 
 and has a smoother feel to it. Battle intensity was a focal point during the design process, and 
 Activision delivered. The story is almost identical to the original, placing you in the middle 
 of WWII. However, as the main story line is the same, the missions differ enough to make you feel 
 like this is a completely different game. Even after countless games based on the war, Activision 
 succeeds in making Call of Duty 2 fresh. If you ever played Call of Duty 1, you know that while 
 the single player was excellent, the multi player was even better, setting the bar for first person 
 shooters. In this aspect 2 doesn't disappoint. Several new game modes have been added, along with 
 some new maps. I noticed that one thing was missing, though. Where are the drivable vehicles? You 
 would think that Activision realized the importance of vehicles after the success of Call of Duty: 
 United Offensive, which boasted tanks and jeeps. Even with the absence of vehicles, this game is 
 worth buying, especially if you're into clan gaming. I'm in a clan and I've played this game for 
 about two years. With new mods, custom maps, and other fun extras coming out monthly, this game 
 never gets old, trust me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gorbichov
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 3, 2007 10:40 am PT
Review:  For those of you who have played the original CoD, you wont be disappointed by this sequel. This 
 game is very similar to the original, but now the HUD's been stripped down and the medkits removed.
 
  
  Gameplay: As always, this CoD game provides immersive WWII themed action in the popular, yet now-a-days 
 overused, FPS format. You'll play bits from each front. That is, the West Front, the East Front, 
 and the North African front. You'll also have the opportunity to play 2 Brits (one of them is a 
 tank commander) , a Yank, and a Russian. Yet again, the snow-covered landscapes of the motherland 
 makes for a rather beautifully bleak setting for some of those difficult urban missions. The North 
 Africa conflict wasn't really touched upon by CoD before, and i think the addition of these levels 
 really benefits the game.
  If anything, the thing i regret is that the Russian Campaign doesn't feature the Reichstag mission 
 from the first CoD, which was a brilliant set piece
  
  Sound: Typically, WWII games draw inspiration for their backing scores from the theme-tunes of 
 some of the most monumental war films made. This can generally lead to absolutely outstanding musical 
 scores, unparalleled by most other games.
  
  Graphics: Although the engine used in CoD2 is somewhat similar to the original, the graphics are 
 a lot more crisp than before. The HUD has also been stripped down to the bare essentials, providing 
 realism and allowing you to keep a better watch on what is actually going on.
  
  Value: This game is now available on Steam (the digital distribution and online matchmaking system 
 by Valve) meaning that it can be somewhat cheaper for overseas customers and a permanent record 
 of the transaction is kept on their servers, so you don't need to worry about losing a disk (you 
 wont get one for a start. And personally, having your treasured games secure is absolutely invaluable 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lettuceman44
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 1, 2007 1:32 pm PT
Review:  CoD2 is one action packed awesome game. The campaign has an epic feel to it, from battling in Northern 
 Africa, to climbing a slope on D-Day. The action is intense. You feel like you are actually part 
 of the battle. The ai is great, not just running out at you, but flanking, and using cover. The 
 graphics are great. The character models look great and so do the firearms. The sounds are also 
 great, and probably one of the best things in Cod2 are the smoke effects. The smoke just looks 
 real and awesome. Multiplayer is also great with many game modes. There are also many people still 
 playing this game. CoD2 is one action packed, intense fps. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fueledonmusic1x
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 29, 2007 6:40 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay: Let me say that this game kicks ass, the action is so good and feels really like ur charging 
 at a nazi. guns like the thompson and the bar hav a really nice feel to it. 
  10/10
  
  Graphics: Top quality graphics, they don't get better like this.
  10/10
  
  Sound: activision 
 scored big on this one. the guns all sound amazing, and the dialouge is no slouch either.
  9.5/10
  
  Entertainment: Best WWII FPS ever! it feels really good taking guys out one by one 
 with ur thompson. the whole experience really captivates u. one problem is that the missions r 
 kind of repeitive, blow up enemy weapons, defend a point, steal documents it gets kind of dumb.
 
  9/10
  
  Value; You can go out to bestbuy and pick this game up for $20. A good way to spend your money. 
 And well worth it. 9/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Pitfiend23
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 21, 2007 3:58 am PT
Review:  Well now a days most of the (good) FPS either take place in a fantasy world or are something with 
 which one cannot relate.
  
  Call Of Duty changed this significantly with it's "LIVE THE WAR" gameplay style where one goes 
 guns blazing.
  In Call Of Duty 2, you control either a Russian, an English or an American... all control in the 
 same way and the thing I found different about the 3 of them-They have different handwritings.
 
  Ok now let's get to the point.
  Graphics-The game has simply AMAZING graphics provided that you have a descent pc to handle it. 
 The explosions.. the rubble and the environment all successfully provide the feel of REAL WORLD 
 WAR.
  Gameplay-Gameplay remains true to the formula implemented by Call Of Duty. It's run and gun and 
 sometimes run and gun and destroy some tanks and stuff.
  Sound-This is the strongest Part of the game.. The voice acting and the environmental sounds are 
 simply fabulous when you are Russian.. your comrades really sound Russian..
  Only thing that left me wondering was: Why would Russians speak English during the heat of the 
 battle???
  Tilt/Story- There's no story as such... It's just the basic WW history u play through.
  
  
 
  
  CLOSING COMMENTS -- Game's cool and the best thing is KICKING THE NAZI ASS,
  SO KICK THOSE NAZI ASSES and GO GO GO....
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: gta11
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 16, 2007 8:01 pm PT
Review:  Call Of Duty 2 For PC
  
  
  
  
  
  ===========================================================
  THE GOOD : Good Graphics, Sound 
 Is AWESOME, Guns Look Great, Sweet Campaign.
  =========================================================== 
  THE BAD : Objectives Are Always 
 The Same, Not Enough Blood (lol) , Veteran Is Just Too Tough.
  =========================================================== 
  
  
  War is one of the most 
 captured events in video game history. Many different franchises try providing fun simulations 
 of wartime combat, but many fail. Fortunately, Call of Duty 2 emerges from the ashes and creates 
 a game experience unlike any other. Here's a look at possibly one of the best war games ever.
 
  
  Gameplay : Activision has really done a good job with the controls for CoD2. The movement is tight, 
 aiming seems natural, and knowing when to run comes naturally. The 360 controller provides a comfortable 
 canvas for the button placements, and it works out great. It's never been easier to lob smokes 
 or grenades, or to melee an unsuspecting enemy in the back. One of the biggest next-generation 
 differences I noticed was the computer A. I. It's developed so much since last-generation consoles, 
 it's incredible. The computer will now wait ever so patiently from behind cover, it's almost frustrating. 
 If you throw a grenade, no longer will they sit and watch, they'll throw it back, or run for cover. 
 The sound of gunfire or the sight of smoke will draw them out, but they hardly ever travel alone. 
 Suffice to say that Call Of Duty's artificial intelligence has really impressed me.
  
  The balance of the game in multiplayer is good, but not perfect. The starting rifle is almost always 
 a one hit kill, and if you have fast reflexes, you can dominate. The sniper rifle is rendered almost 
 useless, since it's simply a scoped version of the normal rifle. Most automatic weapons are decent 
 from close range, but lack the accuracy for long range battles, which several maps feature. Speaking 
 of which, the map selection is good. There are around 15 or so different places to play, each have 
 a unique environment and strategies.
  
  Writing this, I've already beat the game once, but I'm going back to beat each level on veteran, 
 which is a challenge so far. The game is so good, it'll just make you want to beat everything on 
 the best difficulty.
  
  Multiplayer is fantastic. Even if there are no computer bots to play against, if you can manage 
 to get 3 of your friends to come over and play, the experience will be rewarding. The single player 
 intensity is carried over very nicely to the split screen action, and you'll find yourself trash 
 talking after a nice kill, or cursing after an untimely death. Not many games can make you do that.
 
  
  On top of the GREAT split screen multiplayer, there's also the system link, for linking up several 
 PCs, and of course, the online experience. Can it get any better?
  
  Graphics : The character models 
 in this game are excellent. They compare quite nicely to high quality PC games in terms of detail. 
 There's still a tiny bit of awkwardness in the model movement, but it's as smooth as it's ever 
 been. When starting off, you might find it difficult to distinguish between your troops and the 
 Germans, but soon, it becomes second nature.
  
  The weapon models seem detailed, but not so realistic. It's hard to describe, and I think the best 
 example would to compare them to Counter-strike: source. A realistic, nicely textured look, but 
 somewhat out of proportion or odd looking. Still, the weapons are getting more and more detailed, 
 and CoD3 should fix that right up.
  
  The textures in this game are amazing. When I first played, I spent almost half an hour just marveling 
 in the detail of the textures in the snow and on the buildings. Then I got to the British campaign, 
 and saw the levels in France. They're just graphically stunning. I was unaware that a console was 
 capable of generating such graphical beauty.
   
  Sound : Usually sound takes a backseat, 
 for me at least, and I sometimes forget to notice it. Not the case for CoD2. Right away, the sound 
 will create the excellent atmosphere around you. Gunshots, to screams in foreign languages, to 
 the terrifying hum of the Panzers, you'll learn to recognize, and react by sound.
  
  The voice acting is great as well. They're nothing Oscar worthy, but great for a first person shooter. 
 You learn your role in the squad very quickly, as you'll have your comrades screaming: "Davis! 
 Get some smoke out there!" or : "Davis! Clear that bunker!"
  
  The music cuts out during the actual gameplay, but starts up again when you're about to finish 
 the level. It may sound unimportant, but it's one of my favorite parts of the game. You've just 
 barely made it through the last, and you don't know how much more you can take. Just as you're 
 about to give in, the soft victory music starts to play, and you know you've almost made it. It's 
 great stuff.
   
  
  Although I may not agree with the values of war, I can certainly agree with this game. With smart 
 computers, stunning graphics, and an intense atmosphere, Activision has knocked me off my feet 
 with this offering. It's an on of the older games for 360 but I still enjoyed the heck out of it. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tibisay
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 12, 2007 11:43 am PT
Review:  i recommend this old game at 100 percent i played in easy, normal and hard, the gunshots are excelent 
 if you have a great sound system at home you will feel a excelent experience
  dont doubt about to buy this game, ist a not a lost of time and money
  infinite ward did it very 
 well and the pc hardware dont require so much machine really i have a athlon 3200 1 gb ram a video 
 card 6100 nvidia
  its a good game that you should have at your collection believe me
  when i say 
  enyoy that game fellows follow the white rabbit you will not lost nothing in call 
 of duty 2
  hurra infinite yard and activision 
  have a nice game jejejje
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: deadwanderer
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 7, 2007 7:47 pm PT
Review:  Call of Duty 2, Infinity Ward's sequel to the award-winning Call of Duty and its United Offensive 
 expansion pack, is more than just a graphical upgrade of the original. Bringing new locations (primarily 
 Africa) and some new weapons (semi-auto rifles such as the German Gewehr and the Russian Tokarev) , 
 and upping the excitement and scale at the same time, Call of Duty 2 manages somehow to be even 
 better than Call of Duty.
  Over the course of the campaign, you'll play as soldiers in the Russian, British and American armies, 
 and your responsibilities will range from grunt bullet fodder to sniper to tank commander to anti-aircraft 
 artillery gunner. The graphics are amazing. If your computer can handle it, this game will look 
 absolutely amazing. The character models are stellar, and the environs look beautifully chaotic 
 and wartorn. One slight downside is that some of the maps can begin to look repetitive (Oh, look, 
 another shell-torn village to clear, house-by-house, of the Germans resident therein) , but for 
 the most part, the game keeps the variety and intensity constant and high. Greenhorn and Regular 
 difficulties are mostly a walk in the park, although the last levels especially can take several 
 tries because of the number of enemies coming from literally all sides. Still, 9-10 hours should 
 be enough for most players to finish the campaign. But when you crank the difficulty up to Realistic, 
 the game throws a lot more enemies at you (sometimes 40 or more onscreen at a time!) , and the guns 
 hit harder, and all in all you will literally feel as though you're fighting for your life and 
 the game is freakishly intense and crazy and amazingly fun. Cover and grenades are two of your 
 best friends, and you pop up for headshots when the enemies' suppressing fire dies down, and several 
 places will require a dozen or more attempts until you can break through a hard checkpoint, and 
 you'll feel a strong sense of accomplishment when you do so, but no frustration when you have to 
 try again, because the game is so intense and exciting without feeling like they're resorting to 
 cheap tricks and gimmicks to artificially draw out the campaign or make things obscenely difficult 
 just for the hell of it. Realistic will probably take you the better part of 15 hours to finish.
 
  In summary, Call of Duty 2 is probably the very best that WWII games could ever hope to be. Buying 
 it should not even be an option if you're into shooters at all. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: c_doody_1999
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 5, 2007 1:08 am PT
Review:  The only ww2 game to come anywhere near rivaling this is the first MOH game, This is different, 
 you have no health merer, you can only take so many bullets in a period before you need to find 
 cover and re-generate this in its self is revolutionary for a shooter but its one of many inovations. 
 your crosshair is much more useless than in most games, when shooting from the hip or running, 
 dont bother fireing, this is mostly about going from cover to cover and shooting down the sights, 
 no other game makes you actually use the sights of your gun and you love doing it because they 
 are so authenticly moddled and feel so distinctive from each other. when youv killed enough from 
 cover its time to swich to the tommy gun and go cause some carnage. you can still only carry two 
 guns but chose them right and use the right tactics and youll become very refined at the game. 
 dont think that taking cover makes you invulnerable, they have a great grenaid system, the ai both 
 yours and the germans are spot on. graphics still hold up today. its just different and authentic 
 and will make you taste what it was to be on the russian front, at least a little, if your in the 
 market for a shooter without the samey feel of scifi quake, this is for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 3eloff
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 20, 2007 8:14 pm PT
Review:  * This is my first game I brought on lunch day !
  
  Gameplay - 9.5 Very interesting campaign. Smart thinking A. I. Everything that great WWII shooter 
 needs! Cons, however, weapons feels unrealistic and your teammates intelligent is somewhere poor.
 
  
  Graphics - 8
  Graphics are average. And by average I mean below F. E. A. R type of visuals. Some good environments 
 though.
  
  Sound - 8
  Nice sound but I haven't heard any track that really impressed me.
  
  Beside good campaign, 
 COD 2 offers a great multiplayer.
  
  Even with some cons in each category, I think COD2 is a perfect video game, just as you want it 
 to be. Offers you everything what you expect. I think Call Of Duty 2 is the same thing as Godfather 
 part 2, a sequel you can't refuse! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: monkeytoes61
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 4, 2007 10:53 am PT
Review:  Call of Duty 2 is a FPS for PC. You will play as a variety of soldiers. A Russian civilian who 
 has taken up arms. An American corporal, a British tank commander and others. You will also have 
 a huge range of World War 2 weapons. Kar 98's, Thompson submachine guns and more. I find two things 
 that make this game incredibly fun to play. One is the controls. They are so smooth and easy to 
 use. It proves a FPS can have good controls. Second is just how intense it is. There are many moments 
 where you are desperately trying to hold your position under wave after wave up German soldiers, 
 just hoping your reinforcements come soon. Or playing a game of cat and mouse with enemy snipers, 
 not knowing when you might find a bullet lodged in you temple. Nearly everything in this game is 
 executed flawlessly. Everywhere you look you see allied and enemy soldiers alike. You really feel 
 like you're a small part of a huge war. That's what I like about the Call of Duty series. Medal 
 of Honor games made you feel like a spy, not a grunt soldier. Anyways, you won't be selling this 
 game to your used game store soon, because you have four difficulties and 27 levels to conquer. 
 The graphics in this game are amazing. You can see specks of dirt on the faces of your fellow soldiers. 
 You will see splashes of blood when you hit a Nazi with a bullet. It's not too gory, but it looks 
 good. Sound is great as well. All of the explosions and weapons look great. And the Nazis will 
 scream in German, making for a more enjoyable experience. So, in conclusion, this is a fantastic 
 game, worthy of sitting on your game shelf. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mis_Led_Madman
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 30, 2007 3:19 pm PT
Review:  Okay Call of Duty 2 is a great game that is really nice to look at and has some minor changes from 
 the original. Now its get repetitive after a bit. On we go with the review. The good: The good 
 is that this game is a enjoyable due to detailed explosions and characters that keep you in the 
 game. The character interaction and guest appearances by some of the guys from Band of Brothers 
 makes it feel more of a World War 2 experience that people look for or at least what I look for. 
 Let me start by saying that this game looks great. The explosions which I previously touched on 
 look great, the AI is not a bunch of knuckleheads and the voice acting is great. Some minor changes 
 like the Thompson now having two bullets instead of thirty, and.... well thats all I can think of 
 at the moment that come to mind. The multi player is nothing to complain about because I-M-O it 
 is more intense in a way. The bad: The bad things about this game are as follows. I didn't realize 
 how many house had to be cleared out, how many Germans were sent out in the open with mortars had 
 to be killed, and how many close to epic battles in which I had to defend a farm house. This made 
 the game less enjoyable when this was a decent sized portion of the game. Get a little creative 
 at least. doesn't even make it look like you were trying. The more they did the epic battle sequences 
 the more the feeling of accomplishing them left me. The other thing that really made this game 
 a downer was the rechargeable health which seems to be popular in certain games these days. It 
 may seem cool for a game like Halo but in a World War 2 shooter it makes me think why didn't guys 
 just duck for cover and recharge their health. Final thoughts: A great game but they should have 
 sat back and thought about a few things. Call of Duty remains supreme over all of its sequels. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: with_teeth26
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 23, 2007 5:45 pm PT
Review:  I rushed out and bought this game on it's release date, and i've never been happier with a purchase. 
 a still play it today, when i want a fun, simple shooter. The single player campaign is great, 
 with 27 missions, and the multiplayer is simple yet addictive. It looks great, especially the faces 
 on NPC's. there the best i can think of even to this day. It also sounds incredible. The AI is 
 fun to watch, as they will help you out and yell out commands and the positions of enemys constantly. 
 there is never a dull, or quiet moment. There are lots of guns, the replay value is good, and the 
 gameplay is great. Overall, this game is easily a must have for shooter and wwII fans alike. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Delro333
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 22, 2007 5:38 pm PT
Review:  Well Cod2 is an over all fun game. However the stupid AI makes the game simple and repetitive. 
 You'll find most of your time playing the same missions over with similar objectives , unless you 
 now something about WW2 history your probably wont appreciate the nicely presented memrable scences 
 like d-day etc. The game has nice graphics as long as you have a decent computer. Gameplay is what 
 you'd expect it to be, easy and no real war tactics just run and gun. Dont get me wrong though 
 its fun and all, but really lacking reality. OVERALL- EXCELLANT GRAPHICS, CRAPPY AI, DECENT GAMEPLAY, 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lukemaneiro
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 18, 2007 8:30 am PT
Review:  Call of Duty 2 is amazing. Just amazing. The sound effects, the graphics,
  the gameplay... All of it meshed together make you feel like in WWII. And I
  mean it. COD2 is 
 not just another WWII game... it has something special.
  
  First of all, the graphics. Just great, but the game will keep a 'grayish' look at most of the 
 maps in SP mode, which may look a little repetitive, but that's how war sceneries would look like 
 in real life.
  
  The sound effects are one of the high points of the game. All the screaming, talking, shooting 
 make the game more realistic then ever. The gameplay is great too, really well designed, with a 
 lot of new features.
  
  The single player campaign was just thrilling. Absolutely intense, the
  mission objectives vary, 
 as the places you'll fight on. So all missions will
  be really distinct from each other, stopping the game from getting
  repetitive. But one of the 
 things you might don't like it's the enemy
  spawning. If you're a sniper, for example, and you keep sniping the
  machine gunners inside a 
 house, when they die, they'll be replaced by
  reinforcements. If you keep shooting the same people, at the same place
  and don't go foward, 
 they'll keep respawning and coming back forever more, so you'll have to move, whatever happens, 
 and this ensures it'll never be too easy.
  
  Multiplayer is, again, fun. All of the MP modes are enjoyable, there are plenty of guns for you 
 to choose from, graphics and sound remain good, chat works nicely. But the missing anti-hacking 
 system on v1.0 is the bad thing about it, making your updates a must. Machine guns are well distributed, 
 and you can move around the map with no issues.
  
  The game has a lot of new features compared to its predecessor. Not only the new MP modes, guns 
 or campaign, but lots of small details, that are welcome to COD2.
  
  If you enjoy a realistic, fun WWII shooter, this is the game for you. A must for anyone who likes 
 to play a good FPS. If you enjoy Modern Combat more than WWII... Call of Duty 4 is coming up ;) 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 55584623
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 16, 2007 8:37 am PT
Review:  well there are lot great things in this game, is for sure the best fsp for world war 2 so far.
 
  while playing the game the players really feels like he is in the middle of a war and that happens 
 thanks to a large group of well developed elements.
  the sound is very realistic, the graphics, the new health system where you get hurt then get to 
 cover, and more small facts.
  for example: you can only carry 3 weapons, but you can switch them from weapons from dead enemies, 
 all the time you are followed by many soldiers that can die in the middle of the action and can 
 help you during the battle.
  so with all that stuff combined call of duty 2 really brings to the player the real war. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jacen_G
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 14, 2007 8:02 pm PT
Review:  Like the rest of the series, good game, good graphics, good sound quality lots of gore :P, close 
 to being real life. Many different campaign, vary difficulties and weapons. I love the intros of 
 call of duty ( this was especially long) . Great multiplayer modes. Wish there were a better ending. 
 Favourite is the point du hoc mission. The game is additive and can grow on u. PPL should try CoH 
 its like graphic is as good as real life and close up its like call of duty . Nothing else to say! 
 oh and i hate writing long review! Done 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mario21488
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 27, 2007 7:44 pm PT
Review:  Yes of Course Call of Duty 2 proudly earn Game of the Year 2005.
  
  Call of Duty 2 is First person shooter games which bring you into a chaos World War 2. There are 
 three campaigns, Americans, Russians and British. Each campaign will be fighting the German. There 
 are 27 missions and each take longer than other. Play online to show off your skill or just meet 
 new friends. Gameplay is good, besides shooting enemy, completed objectives, you can ride vehicles 
 and used MP40 (machine gun) . You rarely used vehicles, only two mission will you control a vehicles 
 and thats tank. To make Call of Duty 2 realistic, there will be no crosshair when you are moving, 
 it only appear when you are not moving. This may seems hard to shoot your enemy but by clicking 
 your right mouse button, it will bring your weapon up from your hip to your face so you can look 
 down the sight. There no health bar and you dont need to search for First Aid like in other First 
 person shooter game. When you take too many bullets, you will notice your character is heavy breathing, 
 heart palpitations and blurred vision. This mean you need to take cover or else you a dead man. 
 Mostly people said this is unrealistic because there no health bar and you are taking thousand 
 of bullets but it may save you the trouble to look for First Aid. The A. I is very clever, they 
 often take cover, throws grenade at you, run away or bashed you with their weapon if you are near 
 them. You will not be fighting alone, there are soldier following you through the battlefield. 
 They can help you or save your life, they also get hit by bullet so dont think you the only person 
 the enemy is shooting at you.
  
  Graphic is good, the environment are usually are snowy (in Russian) , grassy sort of like a forest 
 area (American) and desert (British) . Call of Duty 2 used the weather effects making the game realistic. 
 When you in desert, you will see sand is being blow by the wind and you will see snowing in Russian 
 campaign. The weapon have been put a little detail on it, when you look closer on the weapon, you 
 will see the weapons name is put on it. This may help you if you have no ideas what that weapon 
 name is. Each solider following you through the mission have names and what job they do. Example 
 Rifle man, support gunner. Even tanks have names too. But the most impressive things are the smoke 
 grenade. The smoke effect looks outstanding and comes in handy in both the single- and multiplayer 
 aspects to neutralize the effectiveness of fixed machine-gun nests and snipers. There's also nothing 
 quite as exciting as running through a dense smoke cloud and finding you face-to-face with the 
 enemy (the view from the opposite side is pretty cool as well) . Throw it in the middle of the battlefield, 
 wait for the smoke to fill and suddenly there no shooting. Sound it very good, voice acting, gun 
 shooting, bombing, they just make you feel like war. Sound background is also good when the battle 
 gone silent, you can hear machine gun being shot. If grenade explosive near you, you be will deaf 
 for a while and then recover which is impressive. Voice acting is good, each solider can speak 
 and call other solider name for back up. Sometimes they do swear and say funny things. German will 
 speak Germane and it sound like German. Multiplayer is the best part I like. Facing other humans, 
 there are plenty of Mod to download and some of them are fun. Call of Duty 2 multiplayer offering 
 standard deathmatch, team deathmatch, and capture-the-flag modes, along with the search-and-destroy 
 mode, where one team has to plant a bomb and destroy one of two objectives while the other team 
 defends. A mode called headquarters is also available, and it's probably the most enjoyable mode 
 of the five I played. In this mode, two different areas on a map are designated as capture points 
 for either of the two teams. To score points, a team must control and set up a headquarters on 
 one of the two areas. Once that's set up, points begin increasing for the controlling team. The 
 other team must attempt to overrun the position to try to stop the points from ticking up. During 
 the time a headquarters is set up, the defending team members can't respawn (if they're killed) 
 until their headquarters is overrun or the HQ expires. Once one of those two things happens, capture 
 points are changed to different locations and the teams begin anew to try to set up a base. The 
 weapon are well balance, there's a predictable relationship between bolt-action rifles, semiautomatic 
 rifles, assault rifles, and submachine guns. Over all Call of Duty 2 is the best World War 2 game 
 I have ever played and I recommend you shall buy this game. This game can make you feel about the 
 World War 2, how soldier fight for their country and fear of dying. If you are a fan of First person 
 shooter, buy this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: frag_1
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 11, 2007 8:16 am PT
Review:  The Call Of Duty series has received critical acclaim from both critics and gamers alike which 
 is a rare feat..
  
  Call Of Duty introduced a new fervour to Historic FPS games and its sequel Call Of Duty 2 has taken 
 this to an even higher level.. Putting aside the mind blowing graphics, the game has always put 
 forth immense intensity in its gameplay which just sucked me in, making me feel like I was in the 
 war myself.. The intense dogfights and close quarter combats mixed with improved AI of allies made 
 the game a lot more interesting than its predecessor.. The importance of the grenades has to be 
 highlighted in this game.. they are indispensable when it comes to this game.. The introduction 
 of smoke grenades made this game a lot more elusive.. This gave the player the chance to execute 
 an attack with the element of surprise. Call Of Duty 2 provides more action and of course opportunity 
 to any player who wants to go forth on his own in the game.. The smoke grenades not only provide 
 cover but helps reduce enemy fire for a little time as well.. The enemy AI has improved greatly 
 with the enemy using grenades more efficiently, being more accurate with shots and also providing 
 a tough challenge to the player when it comes to close quarter combat.. The large number of enemies 
 attacking at a time helped to make the game seem more realistic and also made the game a lot more 
 innovative.. After all you almost have unlimited health, as long you duck for cover when you're 
 hurt which lets us take a few risky moves which otherwise we wouldn't have been able to take..
 
  
  The only thing I found weird about the game was that some of the weapons were almost futile when 
 not used while aiming down the sight.. The efficiency of the Thompson or the BAR increase four 
 fold when aiming down the sight rather than shooting normally.. The Lee-Enfield rifle and the Gewehr 
 43 were useless at any range until we will aim down the sight.. This turns to make clearing out 
 rooms with many enemies a bit difficult as it becomes a lot more tough to see about the room.. 
 But other than this, the game was a marvel to the core.. Has provided me a great experience and 
 a lot of enjoyment while I played it..
  
  The game has very good graphics and runs exceptionally smoothly at 4x AA and highest graphics.. 
 The lighting and textures in the game were fantastic and contributed to the realism in the game.. 
 The game followed a series of events during WWII where we played the role of a Russian, British 
 or American soldier fighting against the Nazis to bring peace in the world..
  
  The game has struck me hard in the chest and I'm left panting and wating more.. but unfortunately 
 with only 10 levels in this game.. I just have to wait for the release of the next instalment of 
 the Call Of Duty series for the PC to regain the pleasures I experienced while playing this game..
 
  
  P. S. Again I urge people not to think too much about the use of periods.. It maybe a handicap, 
 it may be a sin for any language freak.. but just learn to DEAL WITH IT!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GARIOT
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 10, 2007 3:15 pm PT
Review:  Love it - it's the badger's nadgers! Fun no matter how often you get killed. You can have a fun 
 nickname, too - best one I ever saw was'Dude, where's my Kar?' You can kill the expert players 
 even if you're crap - boy, do they HATE that! Even the cheats can't spoil it - although, sometimes, 
 smoke grenades can. The Russians are a bit bulletproof, but if it annoys you, you can always go 
 a Russian, eh? Good choice of weapons - unless you're American. So, now I have to write more words 
 because Gamespot want 100, apparently. What is this? Am I back at school, writing a review for 
 homework? I'm a Total Access Subscriber - I shouldn't have to put up with this! It's an outrage! 
 LOL Have I done 100 words yet? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Chinese_J3ST3R
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 8, 2007 9:57 pm PT
Review:  The Call of Duty series in my opinion has always been the Ferrari version of the FPS shooters for 
 WWII. Infinity Ward really did a great a job here. Though Call of Duty 2 may seem just like a good 
 old regular World War 2 shooter like all the others. It isn't, it is the most intense World War 
 2 shooter out there and Call Of Duty 2 really polishes the name of World War 2 shooters few in 
 this shooter genre will ever be able to live up to Call of Duty's name and how high it has brought 
 World War 2 shooters too. And so i give this game 9.5. And also awesome graphics. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ultra-Fatality
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 12, 2008 4:34 am PT
Review:  Call of duty 2 is a WW2 FPS based on real historical events. It does an amazing job at recreating 
 the battlefields of WW2. The Game revolves around 3 campaigns. In the first you play as a Russian 
 private named Vasili and are tasked with driving the Germans out of Russian territory in a series 
 of battles that include Stalingrad. In the British campaign you are first tasked with driving the 
 Germans out of the North African desert and then head back to battle the Germans in Europe. In 
 the American campaign you fight the Germans in D-Day and then battle it out in Germany.
  
  The combat in this game is amazingly satisfying, there is blood, the guns are loud and powerful 
 and the soldiers look very real, the enemies are numerous and so are your allies, who can sometimes 
 be very helpful. The sound is also brilliant and really helps to make the battles dramatic the 
 sound of constant gunfire, explosions and soldiers screaming is something that has to be experienced. 
 That saying the weapons in this game are awesome to use and are varied, the main two weapons are 
 Rifles and Assualt rifles. Each country has different weapons and vehicles e. t. c
  
  That saying, the visuals are amazing, grenade explosions look awesome, so does the gunfire, so 
 do the character models e. t. c however they are very demanding. My rig can run this game @ 1280*1024 
 resolution with the detail at max settings and 2x anti-aliasing with no problem but for the average 
 system this game will be a very demanding game and the detail level will have to be lowered.
  
  This game is in my opinion the very best WW2 FPS yet due to its epic scale and fun objectives 
 however WW2 FPS's are becoming too numerous and have actually become sickening. So this is probably 
 this games only major weakness, that most people who have played this game will have become sick 
 of WW2 shooters so this will make the game not as enjoyable as it should have been. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: splinterminter
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 3, 2007 6:12 pm PT
Review:  When this game first came out I was pretty excited, but didn't have the hardware to play it. But 
 ever since getting the high end components and having 7.1 surround sound, I have to tell you that 
 this is a great game. The sound, the design, the historical accuracy is all there. You'll here 
 the MG42s, the MP40s (my favorite gun) and all the others. Character design could have been better, 
 and have more models, but all in all you won't go wrong with playing this game. I haven't ever 
 regretted it, and still play it to this day. I haven't actually played any multiplayer, but that's 
 just me. You should of played it by now, if not before! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: classic7
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 2, 2007 3:05 pm PT
Review:  So much hope rested on the shoulders of COD2. Would it exceed its predecessor? Or would it be a 
 flop? those were the questions surging through the minds of COD fans everywhere. COD2 was everything 
 we expected and more. With the blinding graphics to the smooth gameplay, COD2 won everyone over 
 and became Game of the Year for 2005. From the beaches of Normandy, too the sands of Northern Africa, 
 to the remains of the Thousand Year Reich , COD2 grabbed on and didn't let go. The multi-player 
 was also a blast and a welcome addition. Heres the low-down.
  
  Gameplay- Thankfully Infinity Ward kept most of the games core gameplay completely intact. There 
 were some minor changes but it is mainly the same.
  
  Sound- I don't know how many times i'll have to say this but the COD series has some of the best 
 sound tracks in any game, the sound effects were just as amazing, from planes zooming over head, 
 to guns firing, and bullets bouncing of tiger tanks, the sound was well polished.
  
  Tilt- With varying difficulty settings it will last you for as long as you need it too, not to 
 mention the competitive multi-player.
  
  Reviewers Tilt- COD2 is easily the best in the series, no doubt about that. I love this game and 
 plan on playing it for years too come. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheCrapp
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 1, 2007 9:13 pm PT
Review:  Call of Duty 2, a game from its 2 years release date, and its still a really fast, fun, addictive, 
 and a hell of a action game. The single player camping of the game is really great and fun, some 
 missions are scripted and some others NOT!, yeah! so u can have intense action on thousands ways 
 without losing the fun. So on your Call of Duty 2 camping, u will play as: - Russians - British 
 - Americans
  
  Call of Duty 2 is a really evolved game (or many others call it, a truly successor) from its previously 
 versions, and on the PC version, they got a fully attention with it, so this is really a exclusive 
 Pc version and really flawless without any bugs, what im sayin, that this game doesn't even need 
 any patch! (if you like it) because there are no bugs who mess ur game and playing...
  
  Graphics: 2 years from now and its still really outstanding, its somewhat next-gen for high PC 
 users, and its graphics engine, is really scalable, support DirectX 7 and 9, so even a laptop can 
 run it flawalessly, with cool visual effects and explosions...
  
  Sound: Is top notch, every weapon has its proper sounds and sound really good, the ambiance feels 
 like a real War and the biiiiiiii sound that u have on ur ears when a explosion detonates aside 
 with u.... everything is cool...
  
  Value: U got more what u paid for, so this is a must have! (no jokes)
  
  And also i forgot 
 to mention the multiplayer part that also is awesome and has a really active community, if u wanna 
 see that im right, check gamespy for servers and online players statistics.
  
  So, i did it say before, and i will say it again, that this game is a must have for any PC gamer, 
 well for the first person action enthusiastic PC gamer 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rlink0
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 30, 2007 8:27 am PT
Review:  When I first picked this game up, I didn't really know how good it was. I was just into the Call 
 of Duty series and had beaten all the other ones, aside from this and Big Red One at the time (I 
 still haven't gotten around to beating B. R. O.) . I end up playing this game almost the whole day 
 after I get it. It wasn't until a year after I had it I even attempted the online feature. A month 
 later, I was hooked like crazy on it. Only recently did I decide to join a clan, and then it got 
 even better. For those of you that like FPS games, this entire series is for you. You may find 
 yourself immersed completely into the single-player, dieing millions of times simply trying to 
 beat the first level on veteran, or maybe online pwning lots of n () () bS!!!!!11!! . In any event, 
 this is a very fun FPS. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mcmike1942
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 27, 2007 4:08 pm PT
Review:  I bought the warchest pack COD. And I started by playing COD2. It is just as amazing and heart 
 pounding as it was on 360. The game uses very little resources as compared to a lot of newer games 
 yet it has very good graphics. I have a top of the line GTW retail, with an AMD 6000+ 64 X2 3.0 
 ghz. Nvidia 8500GT, 3gb of ram. COD2 runs very well. The longest of the campaigns is the Brits 
 and the best guns are the Germans. The one that is the most fun is the Russian one. The bar is 
 the best gun in the game. The only bad part I found was that your guys will stand in a doorway 
 and block you from getting out of the way of harm. This game was much better that COD3, and much 
 more open well worth the money. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: prashweb
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 6, 2007 10:32 pm PT
Review:  This is one of the best World War 2 action games i've ever played. The experience is great! Amazing 
 Gameplay. Good Story and FUN to play. Once your done with the game, u' wont mind playin it all 
 over again! Graphics are good, AI is good, It gives u the real First person war Experience! The 
 multiplayer option allows you to pick a side and u can team up with ur mates and get on the battlefield! 
 Call of Duty 2-Experience what it was like on a real battlefield in those days... Friends die.. soldiers 
 were killed, u have to leave them behind and finish off ur enemy!
  So, Wanna kill some Krouts?... GO Ahead!! Itz worth it ! This game rocks... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: A1B2C3CAL
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 24, 2007 1:22 pm PT
Review:  The streets are covered in snow, and breath hangs frozen in the -20 degree (Celsius) air. The Germans 
 are swarming, armed with better weapons and what seems to be a better sense of tactics. On the 
 Russian/Soviet side are a ragtag group of soldiers who seem to find fortune in their attack rather 
 than use any strong tactical element. But those are your comrades and they will shout out information 
 you need to survive this ferocious encounter. After a skirmish that has you demolishing a building 
 full of Germans, the Russian campaign moves into a simple repair field-phone lines mission  
 one that highlights how each of these missions moves into another within the level. You follow 
 the line and fix breaks, obviously with resistance from the Germans. But once you repair the final 
 break and contact the command, there is a surprise waiting for you. 
  
  Panzers spotted in your area. Hunt those bastards down. Good luck. Out.
  
  Resist the urge 
 to ask what medication they are on. You have a weapon with limited ammo and are picking up dropped 
 weapons and ammo along the way, and now they want you to run up and plant explosives on the side 
 of a German Panzer  one that is moving and using machine guns to discourage such behavior.
  The game, much like the original, tracks Russian/Soviet missions, British in North Africa and American 
 missions, and even includes a tank battle, though the enemy tanks do not seem as smart as the soldiers 
 and do not necessarily always move to avoid allowing you to line them up in your sites. The game 
 begins with the Russian missions, but you can use the interface to jump to the British scenarios 
 or the American. However, you do need to unlock the American missions, and the other missions within 
 the theatre sequences (Soviet and British) are not unlocked until you have completed the previous 
 mission in the thread. The British scenario begins with the Battle of El Alamein and subsequent 
 missions are unlocked from there. However, jumping around does cause players to lose progress in 
 a previous mission thread.
  
  Suppression fire is recognized in this iteration of the game and is a very handy tool, when it 
 is working for your side. It allows flanking maneuvers  yep, told ya the AI was smart  and can 
 pin down the enemy, or you, so that grenades can do the dirty work. There is a grenade indicator 
 that will let you know when you are in danger of becoming kibbles and bits, but where you move 
 can be tricky. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: perlox
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 21, 2007 4:15 pm PT
Review:  I would highly recommend Call of Duty 2. For those that haven't played you should definitely try 
 it. Here's why:
  1. The single player campaign is really good. Get ready to be thrown right into the Russian, British 
 and American fronts. It is pretty much straight action the whole time. There are also really interesting 
 video's of the real war in between levels to explain further why you are going there.
  2. The multiplayer is really fun. CoD2 is a LAN favorite at many LAN's I've been to. It's fast 
 and takes a lot of skill. I've been in some crazy battles and it reminds me of the speed from Quake 
 and Unreal Tournament. So if you like that kind of thing, you will probably have a good time here.
 
  You can carry 2 main weapons which is nice if you want a sniper and close range weapon or just 
 a couple rifles. There are plenty frag and smoke grenades to play around with. So have fun!
  3. The interface is built well enough, the graphics and sound are good.
  Overall a good bang 
 for the buck. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hautarzt
Rating: 4
Date: Sep 21, 2007 12:35 am PT
Review:  pros: endless action, wonderful smoke effects.
  
  cons: scripting so lamely implemented, that the entire war stops when you stop your pace to look 
 at something. see a peaceful street in the tunesian village, your buddies are staring at the nazis 
 on the other side. everybody is waiting for something: its YOU!. step a little closer and they 
 start putting on their show on for you. jesus. leveldesign: the russian houses are a shame to the 
 game genre. blocky walls - one flat texture over wall and ceiling, often no doors, the only opening 
 the blasted hole in the wall. some random misplaced furniture piece, the same 3 posters all over 
 the place. proportions totally unrealistic. etc. i suppose they call it functional level design 
 .
  gets better in the later levels /campaigns though.
  
  sounds: unfinished. enemy mg would often just constantly fire for hours. no sound change. you get 
 the feeling, the sound froze or something. get 3 mgs firing at you, and you get 3 times the same 
 soundfile, meaning a noise wall that would just blank out everything else. grenades sound like 
 beerbottles rolling on the floor. the voice acting of the germans is a endless repetition of the 
 same 3 lame files: one grenade? here it comes! , he needs help! (someone talking to himself) . all 
 done by the same clowny actor.
  
  all in all: the first half of the game is boring to the core, the occasional mass storming at your 
 position (only when you picked up THAT item, or whatever script trigger they want you to do.) feels 
 like a tivoli ride. everything and everybody is just mecanically acting to entertain you.
  
  a shame. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: squidney2k1
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 16, 2007 8:34 pm PT
Review:  Presentation: 8/10
  This is a World War II combat simulation, as such it's limited in original storytelling. However, 
 the developers took great care to immersing the player both historically and virtually. Moreover, 
 two of its three missions are quite interesting in choice, specifically Stalingrad and the North 
 Africa campaign, as they are territory generally not explored by the mainstream. Western society 
 seems to care little about the massive Russian casualties in WW2 (which greatly outnumbered all 
 the other ally casualties combined) , and Western society (specifically US society) cares so much 
 about solely D-Day and the corresponding march on Berlin that areas like North Africa or East Asia 
 or the Pacific Theatre in general get completely neglected. While Call of Duty 2 does have the 
 requisite D-Day mission, its selection in its other missions is most appreciated and well selected.
 
  
  That being said, each mission is accompanied by a beginning Military Channel clip with short slideshows 
 in between each part of a mission, which serves to flesh out the details and nuances of the missions 
 and the scope of the mission you're undertaking, both historically and in game. These slide shows 
 and video clips are chosen quite well, especially the rousing speech by Eisenhower preceding the 
 D-Day clip.
  
  Sound: 10/10
  Amazing. Simply amazing. American audiences have been overly spoiled by movies like Saving Private 
 Ryan and the sheer chaos of war. Too easy is it for a developer to resort to simply looping and 
 ambient background track of gunshots and explosions to try and mimic such chaos, but Call of Duty 
 2 presents an accurate simulacrum of the real deal. If you've got a great sound system, you've 
 got to jack it up, because the sound design is phenomenal. The ambience is absolutely amazing, 
 especially in the some of the more chaotic North Africa and D-Day mission parts, as you could be 
 completely safe from harm, yet still have adrenaline pumping in your veins from the sheer immersiveness 
 of the production.
  
  That being said, the designers have striven very hard to pull out the sounds that any male has 
 become intimately familiar with as a result of viewing Saving Private Ryan. The M1 Garand has the 
 satisfying (if disastrously-designed) metal clang when a clip depletes, the Kar98K has the satisfying 
 feel of a bolt-action rifle, and the in-game heartbeat you hear when you muffle your breath to 
 steady a scoped rifle is intense, among others. Simply well done.
  
  The music, however, is a bit stereotypical war fare, but it serves its purpose well, and is only 
 employed at key moments, which means that the background gunfire and explosions serve as the primary 
 background music for your gameplay.
  
  Replayability: 9/10
  The missions are a bit less varied than I would like (though the North Africa campaign is amazingly 
 well-conceived) , the varying levels of difficulty provide for ample amounts of single-player run 
 throughs. But this is definitely a game where you need to do multiplayer. That's simply it. By 
 virtue of being an FPS with a reasonable fan base, you will have all the replayability you need, 
 provided you have a good internet connection (and really, who doesn't these days?) .
  
  Gameplay: 9/10
  It becomes *painfully* clear that the designers of Call of Duty 2 were heavily 
 influenced by Saving Private Ryan. Which is not a bad thing. Saving Private Ryan was a tour de 
 force movie by Steven Spielberg. Spielberg presented images and scenes and moments that would forever 
 embed themselves into the public conscious and is a testament to his skills as a director. As a 
 source of inspiration, Call of Duty 2 can't really do worse. To anyone who saw the movie (and if 
 you haven't, you should) , there are distinct moments that echo from the movie. If an explosion 
 goes off near you (that doesn't kill you outright) , the screen starts blurring and the sound becomes 
 heavily muted for a while, until the sound comes back with a tell-tale whirring of some shot. While 
 Half-Life 2 did so similarly, Call of Duty 2 clearly uses Saving Private Ryan as its inspiration. 
 Moreover, there are many lines and events that are directly inspired by the movie. Such as your 
 initial moments in the D-Day campaign. Again, these direct inspirations are not really a bad thing, 
 because it serves in making Call of Duty 2 a cinematic experience.
  
  And this is where Call of Duty 2 truly shines. You feel less like playing a game than you rae watching 
 a good war movie or series like Band of Brothers. As a straightforward FPS, it's not terribly innovative. 
 You have guns, you fire them, you can occasionally throw grenades. You can take a few hits, but 
 you won't die as long as you don't take too much damage at once. Pretty straightforward and bland. 
 But the presentation is amazing. Gene Siskel once declared that a great movie needed to have three 
 memorable scenes to go along with no bad ones. It seems like the designers of CoD2 employed that 
 ethos as their design philosophy. I can think of countless amazing, cinematic moments within the 
 game. The standoff against the German counterattack in the Russian campaign. Or, the absolutely 
 amazing Sherman charge into the Panzers in the North Africa campaign; as the Shermans had a far 
 shorter range than the Panzers, you spend the first minute or so in a tense, blind charge in the 
 desert towards the Panzers, as radio chatter becomes clogged with the screams of your allies as 
 they get hit and explode before ever seeing action. Or the chaotic German ambush in the North Africa 
 campaign. Or the chaotic last stand atop Hill400 in the D-Day campaign. All these make up easily 
 for the weakness in gameplay innovation.
  
  Overall: 9/10
  CoD2 is a wonderfully created cinematic game. A relatively simple war game design, coupled with 
 strong voice acting, appropriately timed music, and masterfully crafted sound, you can't help but 
 feel your spirits rise as you re-enact historic campaigns. And a game that can actually have moments 
 where it moves me emotionally (the game can be strongly evocative of the sense of chaos and danger 
 that the real soldiers of WW2 faced) has done something resoundingly right. This game is easily 
 worth your time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Umbrella_Corp
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 15, 2007 1:29 pm PT
Review:  this game is so far the greatest i have seen in call of duty.
  
  call of duty 2 with some friends on lan is better there you know they don't cheat or hack or don't 
 get called a hacker.
  
  In the server maps/server were your facing off complete strangers observing them all first would 
 be a good step to take see who hacks see who doesn't watch how they move watch their skill me personally 
 hopping like a bunny isn't my style or crouching near enemies is a good way to get killed i have 
 tried it many times i still get shot in the head or the torso wich i think they are hacking when 
 they shoot me in the head 5 times and is the same person over and over again some times when that 
 happens people get banned because they seen the side board or seen in observing.
  
  id rate this 8.5 out of a 10 if it was up to me i would rate this a 10 out of 10 but its not still 
 would have been cool if some airplanes were in this or at least a helicopter or maybe a battle 
 ship anyways its still i think a public thing so ill go with the peoples and rate it along with 
 others 8.5 some have done 8.1 but i think it deserves a 8.5 or at least a 9.0. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: giro786
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 13, 2007 10:05 pm PT
Review:  Very nice game about WW2 ; is has always been this way ; call of duty better than medal of honor 
 in everything
  
  i loved playing call of duty 2 ; the only thing that got me confused was not having a health bar 
 ; so i didn't know when i was supposed to die ; it was about the screen turning red that i was 
 searching but overall , very nice game ; one of the best in the WW2 games ; i was very mad that 
 i didn't play call of duty 3 but i am looking forward into call of duty 4 because i am positive 
 that it will be on of the best though it will not be about WW2 , it will be about the situation 
 that we are facing now with the current terrorism 
::::::

::::::
UserName: krull543
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 11, 2007 11:27 am PT
Review:  Overall a good to great game. I loved learning more about WW2. And playing from the three different 
 countries vantage points kept it interesting.
  
  Graphics and music was good with good sound effects. The learning curve on play was easy and the 
 interface was clean and very usable.
  
  There could have been more missions with more details, checkpoints, etc. I could have kept playing 
 it on the Hard setting if there was more new stuff to do. Unfortunately after completing it twice 
 I just got bored and gave it to a friend. At least I didn't pay full/new price for it, but got 
 it on Ebay. That is the only reason that it gets just an 8 from me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KyleLambert
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 6, 2007 9:48 am PT
Review:  When the Call of Duty 2 demo was first released, I was blown away.
  I immediately went and picked up the game upon release and was not disappointed.
  It's overall 
 feeling of immersion was great, and though immersion is one of the most important parts of a game, 
 the action this title delivers is intense, adding much more quality to the aforementioned immersion.
 
  
  This is definitely not a generic WWII game.
  It's Call of Duty's star game, and definitely the best in the series to date.
  
  There is nothing 
 more to say, other than:
  If you want an epic shooter, that immerses you like none before, you must check out this game, 
 it will be in your bargain bin for sure, so it's well worth it.
  
  And with Guns ablaze, you'll fell like you're there. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Spartan14787
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 5, 2007 5:57 pm PT
Review:  This game has a great story line that starts in Russia and your able unlock other campains from 
 America to the British. Being able to play on D-Day and also charge the beachs in a hail of bullets 
 is true eenjoyment. This game has great sound and amazing graphics. Multiplayer is the same story 
 its amazing to play with every weapon balanced to perfection. Range of weapons from british to 
 Russian and German and American. Maps support all types of gameplay fom capture the flag, to team 
 death match, to regular deathmatch. Maps support a range of players up to 64 in one game. I got 
 to tell you its true mayhem. This is an award winner hands down. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Grantelicious
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 4, 2007 5:35 am PT
Review:  If your looking for a WW2 FPS then look no further because it offers upto date graphics with a 
 real cinematic action packed experience and a highly populated multiplayer game. You may also want 
 to check out the first call of duty if you don't mind playing on a Quake 3 engine.
  
  Call of Duty 2 Starts off by giving you a short tutorial but quickly putting you straight into 
 battle and with 3 different campaigns playing as the Russians then the British and then the American's 
 it offers views from 3 sides against the Germans, however i would have liked to play as the Germans. 
 Each Campaign is pretty short but intense and action packed, took me 6 hours to complete the game 
 from start to end so thats about 2 hours a campaign.
  
  COD2 is a very linear cinematic game that tries to make it so you feel like your in a war with 
 others and not a one man army. You're restricted but a corridor Doom3 like set path where scripted 
 events take place and let you move onto the next area. COD2 does a good job though of making it 
 not feel as linear as it is though and with all the action your not really going to care anyways.
 
  
  The guns are your standard WW2 weapons and they do sound and kick back really nice so feels like 
 your firering them and also the screen shakes and if you nearly get hit by a bomb or granade it 
 goes into that Saving Private ryan type slow mo thing. Theres no health bar thank god! So the more 
 you get hit you'll start to see red blood type thing around the screen indicating that you need 
 to take cover and it slowly regens. It's a really nice system so your not looking for health packs 
 all the time and brings you int he action alot more and makes you use cover more too.
  
  Most of the game is on foot but in the British campaign you can drive and tank and it uses more 
 vehicles as they're set in Africa. It breaks up the game abit but i wouldn't play it all in one 
 sitting as you will grow tired of the repetitive nature of the game. By the end i was feeling like 
 all this game is about is taking over ltitle villages and defending them from counter attacks.
 
  
  The graphics are still fantastic to this day and does a great job keeping you immersed and the 
 sound does too it's all top notch with some nice music. However the only thing that got on my nerves 
 was the voice overs constantly saying the same thing over and over and over again.
  
  The multiplayer is solid and lots of people play it, one of the most populated out there infact. 
 I personally didn't like it because it is just a basic team death match type thing. However i never 
 gave it much time so theres probably servers with mods on it and stuff, worth a look anyways and 
 makes the game really worth the value.
  
  So COD2 is the best WW2 FPS out there and way worth the price tag but it isn't without it faults, 
 like any game and i wouldn't call it a classic or the best game to ever be made.
  
  What iw ant to see in a future WW2 is a shooter but more open ended with RPG elements and a more 
 personal type thing. I want friends and to have rests and go eat or something like you see on the 
 Episodes of Band of Brothers.... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jaychou164
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 3, 2007 12:18 am PT
Review:  This Is The Best FPS I've Bought In 2005, It's Graphics Is UnBelievable, The Soldier Models Are Really 
 Beautiful As You Can See Some Scars On Their Faces And The Guns Have Fingerprints, Some Missions 
 Are Hard Example: The Last Campaign Of The British But It's Still Good, But Big Red One Was A Horror, I 
 Mean, They Should Have Release It On PC And XBox 360 So That The Graphics Will Be Better But The 
 Gameplay is Still Good And It Has My Favourite Map Of All Times ---The Great Crusade -- Omaha Beach, Not 
 Sure Why I Like It... Maybe Because There Is A Lot Of Casualties
  
  I'll Give It 9.0 
::::::

::::::
UserName: game-j
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 2, 2007 7:21 pm PT
Review:  It a good fps game if u search one it a good one to buy it :D For me it the best fps at this time 
 Just try the demo and go play multiplayer and joint all people play online it the more fun playing 
 online. For the first time you play online it maybe the server you going play on it it going more 
 difficulty to kill people because it to good player but a more time you play the game more good 
 you are. Don't give up at first time you play it have a noob server too :P 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bish206
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 2, 2007 7:37 am PT
Review:  It all starts off with the single player, which i honestly have not played that much. My history 
 of the game is that I started playing in December of 2006, where i was absolute crap at it. Although 
 now I can rate myself as med+ when I'm at my best. It has excellent graphics compared to most games 
 before it, and the best sound quality in my honest opinion. My only regret with it is that it does 
 not have a feature that Battlefield 2 shows, an online statistics center. Everything else couldn't 
 be better, having added a few mods and tried to make my own, the game play itself cant get much 
 better. I would recommend this game to EVERYONE who plays any for of FPS.
  
  There are a few letdowns including the one above, one being that there is no way of using any vehicles, 
 another is that every map includes Allies Vs Axis, I would prefer a game to be able to have any 
 team Vs anyone else, e. g. the Brits Vs the Americans. if anyone has a mod for this, please let 
 me know! other than that, anything else wrong with the game (e. g. no rifle for American) has been 
 solved through modding. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jaca_42
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 1, 2007 9:28 am PT
Review:  The call of duty series have been dominating the stores since 2003 and now in 2005 the sequel whas 
 finally released.
  Its not the best call of duty game but its certainly not the worst.
  the game offers you 3 campaigns.
  youl start first has the russians and has you move on youl 
 unlock mission in the other campaigns your first unlock will be a mission in the british campaign 
 and last but nat least the american campaign.
  youl be in some epic battle like the landings of D-day and some huge tank battles in africa.
 
  This game also has a new health system, you dont have a health bar and you dont have any health 
 kits.
  instead your screen gets blurry and red when your taking a lot of hits when that hapens you have 
 2 choices you either run to the nearest cover you find and whait for your health to regenerate 
 or you can go on a prey and sprey rampage and probably die 2 seconds later.
  The enemy AI is very agressive sometimes theyl run on full charge agaisnt you or stay behind cover 
 pope out and fire at you or your allies a few times and go back to cover but besides that they 
 dont do anything else at all.
  theyll move arround a bit but they dont use any tactics like flanking.
  the dificulty is just 
 right you can actually end a level on the hardest dificulty unlike the other call of duty games 
 and its all thanks to the brand new regenerating health.
  the gameplay is good but when you finish the game there isnt a lot of replayability even with harder 
 dificulty.
  the multiplayer on the other end is prety good it will keep you entertained for a lot of time the 
 only downside of the multiplayer is that you cant control any vehicles at all.
  fortunately thereisnt a lot of glitches in call of duty the only glitches youl find is a talking 
 dead body or 2 soldiers fighting each other on the opposing sides of a wall and they can just stay 
 there bashing the wall all day and hit nothing.
  the sounds of this game are amazing from a pistol to a cannon of a tiger tank.
  the music heh 
 not that good but it isnt a big problem since youl be so focust on the action you wont even noticest.
 
  the graphics are amazing even for its age but youl have litle time admire them since it doesent 
 take very loong to reach the action.
  the weapon models are amazing they are so detailed, they look and sound powerfull.
  the story 
 is interesting but not as good has call of duty and call of duty united offensive.
  call of duty 2 is more focust on the action.
  
  overral i think this is a good game and its 
 worth every cent you pay for it.
  it defenately deserves a try. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: doomwarrior235
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 7, 2007 5:35 pm PT
Review:  Call of Duty 1 was one of the best first person WW 2 out there. Know the sequel is here and it 
 takes the bar to a whole new level. The single player in Call of Duty 2 is fun and intense single 
 player. Like the first one you play as the three sides of WW 2 through a ton of intense battles. There 
 are some intense levels in this game like the Beaches of Normandy and there are some levels were 
 you get to drive a tank which are really fun. The single player is fun but it does not last long. 
 Then you can play the fast paced multi player. In the multi player you run through towns and scenes 
 from the game in these fast paced battles. Over all if you are looking for a new shooter to play 
 than you got to give Call of Duty 2 a try. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RLI_Lewis9
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 29, 2007 3:19 am PT
Review:  Singleplayer:
  
  + Immersive setting, sounds and atmosphere
  + Nice story driven campaign, covering 3 sides Brits, Yanks and Russians
  + Great narrative and 
 movie clips help set the scene
  
  - Dumbass AI can be a real problem on higher difficulty settings
  - Team AI spends most of the 
 time cowering behind walls rather than helping
  - Pretty much down to you to do everything Rambo style
  - Davis do this, Davis do that! Davis 
 do everything! Davis wipe my arse!
  
  Graphics:
  
  + Great looking models, weapons and animations for all
  + Easy going on PC requirements
  + 
 No lag at all even on my fairly crap PC
  
  - Grenade explosions are a bit dull, i want a bit more power from them with a small fireball, now 
 that would be cool!
  
  Sounds:
  
  + Great voice acting / taunts etc..
  + Weapons all sound fairly good, although the german semi auto rifle sounds a bit dull
  
  - 
 Footsteps aren't loud enough or gunfire / explosions are travelling too far, because even on high 
 volume i can barely hear people coming up behind me
  - Grenade bouncing and explosions need to sound better / crisper
  
  Multiplayer:
  
  + Fast 
 intense arena style action
  + Different game types to suit different styles: S&amp; D (like CSS bomb mode) , CTF, TD, HQ, Deathmatch
 
  + Very easy to get in on the action, no patching required!
  + No waiting around till end of round after death in Team Deathmatch
  + Mods which download when 
 joining game to allow for taunts and proper grenade priming
  + Plenty of noobs to kill : )
  + PPSH to keep the noobs happy
  
  - Plenty of noobs : (
  - Unbalanced weapons (german machine 
 guns mostly, they suck!)
  - Semi-auto rifles need more damage
  - PPSH needs less accuracy and damage
  - No rewards for being a good player
  - Too much grenade 
 spam with an unmodded game
  - No voice taunts with unmodded game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: minaeitea
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 26, 2007 11:42 pm PT
Review:  I really enjoyed playing this game. Specially the WW2 theme. Graphics were good. But only thing 
 was bad, no blood . Some missions were too short, but that's okay. The weapon sound was like the 
 real ones. D-Day mission was the best one. The beginning was good too with the Russians. Very good 
 feeling about that game after playing. Only thing what i hated is that tank riding, nothing special 
 about it. Many thanks to the Developers. Funniest thing was the end. No cows were harmed in the 
 making of this game .
  
  I really recommend to play this game to everyone. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thedevildweller
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 7, 2008 9:10 am PT
Review:  Call of Duty 2 review by Simon.
  
  The sequel to the original Call of Duty but is it as good as the First?
  
  Call of Duty 2 is 
 an amazing game but, I didn't think it was better then the first. Yes the graphics is better and 
 the game-play is just as great as the original but, the first had the feel of greatness and to 
 me, is just a classic. The game-play is just as intense as the original and the sound effect are 
 just mind blowing. Multiplayer is just as great to. Truly a great sequel to an amazing game. If 
 you liked the first, you WILL like this. 
  Graphics  9/10 Amazing
  Game-Play  9/10 Amazing
  Sound  9/10 Amazing
  Lifespan  8/10 Great
  My Say  9/19 Great 
 
  OverAll  9.5/10 Amazing, but not better then the fisrt
  
  Good Points:
   Fantastic intense FPS action
   D-Day level
   Multiplayer
   Sound effect
   Graphics
 
  
  Bad Points:
   Again cheater in Multiplayer
   Again the tank battle levels
   Sometimes you're A. I team mates tend to run out in front of your line of fire casing game-over 
 for shooting team mates. (Big down fall) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Da_Chaos
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 21, 2007 1:13 pm PT
Review:  The best I like about this game is the multiplayer. The fun never ends in multi. Best online game 
 I have ever played. But there is alot of glitches and bugs for 1.0. But dont worry, 1.3 fixes all 
 bugs and glitches (actually just won't let you do glitches) . Can't wait for Call of Duty 4 for the 
 PC. I am still having fun right playing it and i brought it on the day it came out. Ill say get 
 the game and you won't regret spending 30 bucks. I got it for $59.99 and i still didn't regret 
 it. So have fun and enjoy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kazona
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 19, 2007 6:23 pm PT
Review:  Call of Duty 2 is the sequal to the highly acclaimed WWII shooter, which managed to stand out amongst 
 all the other shooters in the genre by really enveloping you in the campaign through the use of 
 great sound and visual effects. While the sequel doesn't do anything particularly innovating comapred 
 to the original, it has been carefully fine-tuned to make you feel even more involved in the entire 
 campaign.
  
  You start the game out as a Russian soldier, about to be sent into the fray. The entire campaign 
 is played from perspectives of soldiers from three different countries, though, being a Russian 
 soldier, a British sergeant, and an American corporal. This method of playing the game really gives 
 one the opportunity to see different sides of the war while still fighting the good fight, and 
 gives you a nice insight in how the role of each country changed the course of the war. The only 
 complaint is that the Russian side of the campaign doesn't seem to have gotten much attention, 
 and simply plays as a rather lengthy tutorial. That's not to say that this part of the campaign 
 isn't interesting -- quite the opposite -- but it would've been nice if it had been given more of a 
 prominent role in the game, preferably putting it in-line with the lenght of the British and American 
 parts.
  
  The game offers you a great variety of missions, keeping you entertained from beginning to end. 
 It also manages to keep you on your toes by throwing different all kinds of different situations 
 at you. Missions are broken up into several parts, so it's even possible to end up in different 
 scenarios while still being on the same mission. So one moment you may find yourself dug deep in 
 the trenches, trying desperately to fend off a relentless German assault, and the other you're 
 the one joining a whole platoon of soldiers in a full-on assault, or behind enemy lines, tasked 
 with taking out the German artillery.
  
  The people at Infinity Ward did a good job on keeping you aware of the fact that you're only playing 
 a small part in a big war, no matter how heroic your deeds may seem. Throughout the entire game, 
 you'll be fighting alongside fellow soldiers, all of whom seem to act and react just as realisticaly 
 as an actualy soldier would. But unlike most games that involve squads, you won't be controlling 
 their actions. In fact, you're the one taking the orders throughout the game. The AI controlled 
 soldiers are merely there to support you.
  
  There are another few effective methods to keep you reminded of the fact that you're only playing 
 a small part in a much larger war. From time to time you'll see planes engaged in dogfights or 
 swooping down to cover the battlefield in a hail of bullets; or you and your comrades desperately 
 scurry for shelter as the enemey lets loose a barrage of artilery fire. And all the while you'll 
 hear the screams of dying soldiers around you, both ally and enemey, whilst orders in German and 
 American are being shouted out above the noise of battle. As one of the quotes shown in between 
 levels says, there really is nothing as exhilirating as getting shot at without result. And thanks 
 to the great sound effects, this sensation is really brought to live, as you'll oftentimes hear 
 the sound of a bullet whizzing by your head, only to impact the wall behind you, near inches from 
 where you were standing.
  
  From a graphical standpoint, this game really does look amazing. Infinity Ward really put a great 
 amount of detail into each level, applying it to both the indoor and outdoor portions of the levels, 
 and no level looks the same. Add to that some great effects such as the smoke from smoke grenades, 
 the small trails of fire that follows each bullet as it's fired, and the awe inspiring explosions.
 
  
  But all this splendor and sense of realism doesn't come cheap. The big, chaotic battles are an 
 experience that should not be missed, that's for certain. But unfortunately even people with a 
 PC well beyond the recommended requirements will see their framerate drop into single digit area 
 during these massive battles. While DirectX 9 is supported, most people will probably need to revert 
 back to DirectX 7 to get a decent framerate during these missions. And while the game still isn't 
 a slouch in the graphical department even then, a lot of the effects do lose their splendor, lessening 
 the sense of realism overall.
  
  So does this spell doom for the multiplayer portion of the game? Thankfully, it doesn't. Of course 
 you're still dependent on the ping to determine how well a multiplayer session will run for you, 
 but generaly speaking, there's no performance issues to be found here. Multiplayer offers the familiar 
 game types like deathmatch, team deathmatch, and capture the flag. Another mode is search and destroy 
 , which tasks one side with destroying one of two objectives through use of explosives, and puts 
 the other team on the defending side. The last of the modes is called headquarters, where each 
 map has two capture points for either team to capture. Once captured, the team has to setup a headquarters, 
 and hold on to the control point as long as possible to earn as many points as they can.
  
  Weapons in the game all appear to behave as one would expect, and there are several different weapon 
 types available, such as the bolt-action rifles, assault rifles, semi-automatic rifles, machine 
 guns, and more. What's more, the German side of the camp has different versions of each weapon 
 than the American side does. And it has to be said, that if the developers really made each one 
 as close to the real thing as possible, you can probably learn the advantages and disadvantages 
 of weapons used during WWII by either side. Of course you'll also have grenades and smoke grenades 
 at your disposal, both of which can be wielded very effectively once you get the hang of them. 
 Grenades, for instance, can be used to flush your opponents out, forcing them into an ambush of 
 sorts. Smoke grenades are very handy tools if you need to cross an open field. Simply toss one 
 down, wait a few moments for the smoke to spread, and then make move out. However, one thing to 
 keep in mind is that while enemies may have a hard time spotting you as you run through the smoke, 
 your vision is impaired in equal measure, meaning you'll have to use them wisely since the number 
 of smoke grenades you have are limited.
  
  Call of Duty 2 is a more than worthy successor to the original, taking everything just one step 
 further to impress the players. It offers outstanding sound effects, and an intense level of graphical 
 detail to suck you into the whole experience. The AI generally does a good job at assisting you 
 throughout the campaign, and makes you feel that much more like you're part of a squad and not 
 just a lone hero. The big downside is that while it's a great game, it's still another WWII shooters, 
 and despite the splendor that comes with it, it doesn't really offer anything other games in this 
 genre haven't already. Another thing to keep in mind is that this game can really put a strain 
 on your computer, especially during the single player portion, even with a system that meets the 
 recommended requirements. But if you are looking for a game that really shows what a good first 
 person shooter should be like, don't mind another WWII theme, and can live with the occasional 
 performance issues, then this game is really worth giving a try. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: whadzen
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 16, 2007 1:57 pm PT
Review:  With nothing to play until Bioshock, Halo3 etc... I found myself looking for something to shoot. 
 I have never been attracted to WWII games so I never really payed attention to COD2. Well, no I 
 have and I am very impressed. I am having a lot of fun playing this game. It is really easy to 
 get into it.
  Graphics: for a dated game, they look awesome. The environments seem very realistic. The winter 
 landscapes and grenades blowing up in the snow are amazing. The characters seem very well designed
 
  Sound: Amazing. My favorite part of the game. It makes the game really immersive. They do a good 
 job in portraying a chaotic war situation. Some sounds are repetitive, but who cares, I am worried 
 about getting blown up at that point.
  Gameplay: A little repetitive, but fun, immersive and challenging. There are a variety of guns 
 to try and they sound good and feel good to shoot.
  Summary: worth the $30. You'll learn a little history and definitively enjoy it 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TriplePlay2425
Rating: 9.1
Date: Aug 12, 2007 2:59 pm PT
Review:  I really got into this game. After I played Call of Duty 2: Big Red One for my PS2, I decided that 
 I MUST get this game. It is great in every aspect: graphics, sound, gameplay, storyline, and whatever 
 else you can think of. It is a must-have for first-person-shooter lovers. It also has great online 
 play, where you can play multiplayer against others across the internet (obviously) . This is a 
 great game, and I love this series! I am definitely ready for Call of Duty 4, as well! I am sure 
 that every FPS-lover who plays this game will enjoy it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ng2006
Rating: 9.4
Date: Aug 12, 2007 6:12 am PT
Review:  I can hardly say that I like games with CHECKPOINT SAVING method but this game is amazing. The 
 best WWII shooter I've ever seen. Great sound and graphics which you feel that you're in the middle 
 of the battle. This game is so challenging which pins you down on your seat . But not all combats 
 and challenges. Sometimes you have to plan your fight befor egoing through it. (Of course not those 
 kind of tactical planing like GRAW) It's also highly addictive to me as I played Normal and other 
 hard difficulties and yet I've got the desire to replay it. I recommand you (If you're expert in 
 these FPSs) to choose the hardest difficulty that's avilable as it gets so challenging with breathe-taking 
 combats. Among the different and many interesting episodes and missions I DID enjoy Britain and 
 American compaigns. Especially the last missions which made me to feel the real war. I can't wait 
 for the CoD IV ... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nekimoto
Rating: 9.1
Date: Aug 11, 2007 9:01 pm PT
Review:  This game was a great WW2 shooter, but it could have been so much better. It kept me coming back 
 for more every time, but there were a few things about the game that I disliked. If this game had 
 tanks and jeeps like call of duty united offensive had, this game would have been a solid 10 on 
 my list, but don't worry about the vehicles unless you absolutely need them. The game does a good 
 job with the controls and the responsiveness of the game is excellent. Pick this game up if you 
 like shooters. I played it for 1100 + hours. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: smartcobra
Rating: 8.6
Date: Aug 9, 2007 9:00 am PT
Review:  This time activision present a new type of story and great graphics and amazing sound and new type 
 of style of game play and the effects is amazing i think this is best in series.
  =
  =
  =
  =
  =
  Graphics is amazing i give it 10 out of 9.
  =
  =
  =
  =
  Sound is great 
 i give it 10 out of 9
  =
  =
  =
  =
  Story is good i give it 8 out of 10
  =
  =
  =
  =
  =
  Game play is amazing i give it 9 out 10
  =
  =
  =
  =
  =
  =
  =
  =
 
  Effects is amazing i like it to much i give it 9 out 10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: medic4hire
Rating: 7
Date: Aug 6, 2007 8:54 pm PT
Review:  What can one say about the Call of Duty series? Buy it. This game is not just an add-on to the 
 original Call of Duty. It adds a personal touch in which you will feel proud to have played. From 
 Africa to Russia, this game adds perspective in which no other WWII game has had before. The squads 
 seem more personal, adding light to the storyline in which has not been done before. It will leave 
 you wishing that COD: III was available for the PC. Perhaps the XBOX: 360 is a viabale obtion after 
 all. The controlls are familiar and the enemies are clear. If you have not yet purchased this game, 
 do it now! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Alkpaz
Rating: 8.3
Date: Aug 6, 2007 5:34 pm PT
Review:  Even by today's standards the graphics are just superb. When I first played this game though, I 
 found it a bit boring .. although the variety of the missions does give it a good shot.. but if 
 you've played CoD 1 and UO, then you know pretty much what to expect. The music and sound effects 
 are also very well done. But, I just found it hard to find any innovation in CoD2 besides the nicely 
 done graphics. I maybe a graphics whore, but I need more substance than just that . One tank mission? 
 Are you kidding me? oh and reproduced CoD 1 maps.. yeah okay. Anyways, after recently replaying 
 the original campaign, I must admit I enjoyed it the second time around rather than the first.. 
 I also bought it off STEAM and tossed my disk version out.. (housecleaning) This version worked 
 as well as the disk version did.. no problems whatsoever. What the main quibble with the game upon 
 release was the nade indicator.. but after I played the game the second time through.. I have to 
 admit, it IS helpful. There is so much detail in the game that seeing the nade itself is extremely 
 difficult, if you don't know where it landed. I still stayed away from the multiplay though.. since 
 I only cared for UO's multiplay, and since CoD2 is a bit of a step back from UO's multiplay.. I 
 just left it alone.
  
  Now the breakdown:
  
  Gameplay: nice and smooth on a 8800 GTS with max settings.. not recommended for anything below 
 a 6800 Graphics: Perfect
  
  Sound: Superb
  
  Value: eh... if you like CoD1 multiplay you will invariably like CoD2's. As for campaign.. nothing 
 worth it except difficulty. Tilt: I give it a good rating.. it is a good game but its a farcry 
 from great, superb or even excellent. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: McHenry2
Rating: 8.8
Date: Aug 5, 2007 2:52 am PT
Review:  Gameplay: I only played the campaign but man it's intense and has you going to the very end. Very 
 solid and doesn't get repetitive, you hear germans shouting and your guys also shouting adds to 
 the realism with things flying about, planes soaring overhead, as the sounds of explosions echo 
 from nearby really pulls you into the war.
  
  Graphics: This game just about pushes the limit of my graphics card so I must give it a 10, in 
 fact a few times my computer crashed because it simply can't play the game! Sound: Excellent, explosions 
 nailed, along with shouting and the people around you nailed their voice acting in my opinion.
 
  
  Value: The campaign has a surprising about of replayability in it though I havn't tested out the 
 online.
  
  Reviewers Tilt: I have played many first person shooters and the World War 2 genre gets boring 
 but this game makes you forget abnout that.
  
  Overview: Great game, get it if your computer can play it, the campaign is very intense and will 
 make for a very fun day or two. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gear60
Rating: 8.8
Date: Aug 1, 2007 1:38 am PT
Review:  After playing COD 1 for 2 years straight and still going I needed a new Call of Duty game or something 
 about WWII for my PC.
  
  The single player campaign stretches through real campaigns during WWII from the Russian, British, 
 and American fronts in North Africa, Germany, France, and Russia. It's pretty intense and all and 
 emphasizes squad based combat but you know the drill shoot the black suits. While the AI is much 
 improved and smarter ( They actually can kill quite a few Nazi's) your still manning the guns. The 
 most interesting thing here that should've been included in the first Call of Duty is the endless 
 squad deployment you get infinite men usually in missions. That makes the squad based action alot 
 more senseful.
  
  The graphics in this game are absolutely great. Even running on low graphics with AA x2 it still 
 looks, plays, and shoots great. The opening scene for the D-Day invasion is epic intense and sadly 
 pretty to look at. You could play that mission over and over again just to see men die and artillery. 
 That said the sound in this game is also great. Intensity is at a whole new level with the excellent 
 graphics too. Machine guns fire with loud booms tanks shatter buildings brings ringing to the ears. 
 Artillery and climatic gunfights basically feel like the real deal. You could just sit and listen 
 to the game sometimes.
  
  Of course with all this good stuff there has to be something to actually do. Don't worry they got 
 you covered in gun's and missions. All your mission objectives make sense and are very interesting 
 to complete. Some tank and other interesting missions were too short which made you want more.
 
  Now how do you fight those big waves of nazis defending the flak 88 gun? With massive firepower 
 of course. All the guns in the game are realistically modeled and feel and sound like your really 
 a soldier in WWII. Thompsons to Winchester Shotguns to Rocket Launchers the game's got you covered 
 in historical weaponary.
  
  The multiplayer in the game is alright and the added kick is the mods for the game. Now all this 
 wouldn't come with some foul. The game requires a real beast of a PC to run at a smooth FPS even 
 on low. You may not notice it alot in single player but it gets downright dirty when your killed 
 in multiplayer because you were lagging.
  
  So if you need a good WWII game COD 2 is there for you. If you need to shoot some Nazi's COD 2 
 is also there for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MasterChief725
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jul 30, 2007 6:47 pm PT
Review:  I picked up COD 2 in a $40 value pack with COD 1, and the expansion to COD 1. It was the greatest 
 deal ever. Call of Duty is one of my favorite games ever, it is totally complete. The gameplay 
 is very easy, I have to say so myself, but that adds to the fun of the game. I mean, what is more 
 fun than going through a building killing about 16 Nazi's every minute, then you get seriously 
 wounded, so you hide behind a barrel for a minute, and you are all better again! Excellent! The 
 sound was very impressive, it kept you on your toes and always anxious, but after all that, what 
 really got me was the graphics. My computer is not that new, and it will barely run Battlefield 
 2, and F. E. A. R. doesnt run that smoothly. But COD 2 has unbelievable graphics, and there is almost 
 no choppy gameplay! The multiplayer is excellent, a lot like the F. E. A. R. and Halo theme. You run 
 around in a small area, with lots of areas to hide, and you shoot as many as you can. The only 
 downside to this game is that there are no vehicles in multiplayer. But for any computer 2002 and 
 older, this game is WELL worth its $30 pricetag that it is now, and if you can try to pick up the 
 warchest like I did, it has everything on DVDs, and has some bonus content (game of the year editions) . 
 Enjoy! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: davidebborn
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jul 29, 2007 2:24 pm PT
Review:  Amazing and well just amazing with other words that i find how to explain it... im speechless! 
 The good things on this game is how it takes you into the real ww2 time! Fight with your countries 
 allies all over the world from the motherland to the african desert to the operation overlord! 
 i say again amazing! If you are looking for a first person shooter war game and have got medium 
 graphics for your pc then this game is all you can dream for! Makes the first one look rubbish 
 to the first! Buy it and beleive me ypu wont regret it (unless it does not work!) . BUY IT NOW!!!!!!!!!!!! 
 WONDERFULL GAME! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shadowolf_12
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jul 26, 2007 8:32 am PT
Review:  This game had both a fun and exciting single player campain and a thrilling multiplayer.
  The single player battles were well thought out, fun, and challenging (On Veteran) With stunning 
 visuals. There are many parts of the campain you will remeber for a long time, and you will probley 
 compare the game to others, While this single player campain will triumph over many other single 
 player games.
  The multiplayer Experience is great as well. When you get the game you will have version 1.2, which 
 i prefer, it has less servers (about 100) and less players. From gametypes from Team deathmatch 
 to Zombie this has enough for everyone. I know there is a 1.3 mod with over 6000 servers!!!! If 
 your into having EVERYTHING you can easily download the upgrade, but you better know how to search 
 for exactly what you want or you will be overwhelmed. The multiplayer also sports a variety of 
 weapons that gives each faction its own feel and specialtys (Russians have a death gun which is 
 a little cheap though ppsh) If you are thinking of buying the game, I strongly suggest getting 
 it. When you start play the single player game first and after you get used to controls hit the 
 awesome multiplayer. Do not be discouraged if you are not that good because most players on the 
 game have been playing for 100's or even 1000's of hours. Over all a awesome game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tacoeatingmonky
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jul 25, 2007 9:02 pm PT
Review:  Call of Duty. Everybody who's anybody in the gaming world knows that name by heart. This is one 
 of the best FPS games I have ever played. And if you don't already have a high-end soundcard (X-Fi) 
 and a 5.1 channel sound system, this game is all the reason you need. The graphics are stunning 
 for their time, the gameplay is simple yet challenging, and the all around experience is nothing 
 less than completely immersive. If you have ever even considered playing an FPS game, you have 
 to go and buy this game. Don't hesitate to give this game a try. A + + + + + + + + + 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheDarthvader
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jul 21, 2007 10:16 am PT
Review:  There have been a **** load of WW games out there and quite frankly the concept became horribly 
 boring. Well, not quiet.
  This is the best WW game out yet! Its spectacular in almost every way. The graphics are very impressive, 
 the characters are highly detailed. The smoke effect is superb, its the best i've seen in any game 
 yet. Weapon models look very fine. There are a variety of levels, from snowing to the heat of the 
 desert, all looks fantastic. The game runs fine on a mid-range system, though its RAM intensive.
 
  
  Sound is where nothing comes close to this. The music is very pleasing, it doesnt come between 
 the game, its very light, and very good. Weapon sounds are done to near perfection. All three characters 
 you play have their distinct accent which are perfect. With a good surround system, it literally 
 feels you're in the battle field and the experience is quite breath taking.
  
  Gameplay is exactly how it should be. There is no health bar, so you dont have to look for med 
 kits right in a battle and can concentrate on the objectives. You'll be able to drive the tanks 
 aswell. There is plenty of weapon choice all of which are fun to choose. There is no save option, 
 the save saves at every check point, but they are not that far apart so its not a problem.
  I love how they show real videos before the mission and all the quotes from famous people, its 
 really really impressive.
  
  The MP is mind blowing to say the least. You can never play the single player and the MP will make 
 up for it, seriously, its that much fun!
  
  Now stop reading the damn review and play the game, because you dont know what you are missing! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cookj71
Rating: 2.2
Date: Jul 20, 2007 8:22 pm PT
Review:  The environment is completely non-modifying. You have a set unavoidable path to go through. Grenade 
 mechanics are a joke. You eather make it veyr easy which is boring as you just keep getting shot 
 but not dieing. The AI does nothing but get in the way. Which isn't so bad except every time you 
 have a friendly fire the game restarts all over. And when you really need AI support due to a crossfire. 
 They litterally just disappear and give you no support. This is just a constant die reload until 
 you get lucky enough to make it through a section. What a waiste of money. At least I didn't pay 
 retail for it. I hate this game because to me I just threw away $30 bucks. At least with a movie 
 I'm out at most $15. Time to see what this will sell for on Ebay. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: aschuhart
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 12, 2007 3:04 am PT
Review:  Call of Duty 2 lives up to it's predecessor's expectations. Unlike most FPS's sequel's (which seem 
 more like expansion packs than new games) Call of Duty 2 did a good job of making this game feel 
 like a new game. The missions were well thought out and very fun to play. The graphics and sound 
 are top notch and run very well on most machines (that I tried them on anyways) . Not really much 
 I can nit pick with this game though, but that doesn't mean it's perfect. It does follow the same 
 route as 99.9% of FPS's which of course is you follow a linear path, kill stuff along the way, 
 progress to next level, repeat until end. This method is getting quite old but none the less Call 
 of Duty 2 is still a fun game and worth playing through at least once. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Digital_DJ_00
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jul 1, 2007 12:37 am PT
Review:  Call of Duty 2 is a great game on it's own. And if you're a fan of the franchise, then you'll learn 
 to enjoy it even more. The visual presentation is just remarkable, during certain points in the 
 game it'll seem that you're in the actuall game. It's really intense and realistic. I liked it 
 how you could play as the Russians, British, and Americans like you could in the first Call of 
 Duty. It's beautiful and a great addition to be able to see what WWII was like in other parts of 
 the world. The soundtrack went well with the game to give it more effect and mood. If you like 
 FPS's then definately pick this title up, and if you're a fan of CoD and haven't given this a shot 
 yet, What are you waiting for? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Megaflare252
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jun 28, 2007 1:34 pm PT
Review:  I am a bit partial to this game because this was the first game I played after upgrading my Graphics 
 Card. I played games for years with the integrated graphics chip on my old Dell. Needless to say 
 a $300 card upgrade made me realize just how much I had missed out on. I was thoroughly impressed 
 from the beginning with COD2. The game throws you right into the action with a quick, on the field 
 tutorial. If you've got a good set of speakers now the time to use them. Authentic environmental 
 sounds and artillery fire from all directions lends greatly to this games high scores. The game 
 is divided into a few different campaigns where you'll play as a representative from various countries 
 in the WWII alliance. The game takes place in every environment imaginable across different the 
 theater's of war. One mission will have you peeking around the corner of a building missing half 
 of its side in a near blizzard. The next mission might have you fishing sand out of your boots 
 while you duck your pith helmet behind a fruit Stand in North Africa. This game really takes you 
 through the entire scope of war with amazing graphics and effects. The sound is above realistic 
 and the weapons have a great feel to them when switching and shooting. A must have for fans of 
 the series and anyone who like historical shooters 
::::::

::::::
UserName: riomorteza
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 24, 2007 11:08 pm PT
Review:  it's funny that this game with high 3D graphic run simply with 478 CPUs .
  sound effects of this game is really best of part of game . Nazi's sound good desinged . weapons 
 designed with WWII . Test it ! you'll love it . you can play it with a 128 Nvidia geforce graphic 
 card with CPU intel 2.4 Ghz and 512 MB ram with a comotible Direct X 9.0 c sound card .
  for multiplayer yopu need 10/100 mb network card . visit ea. comfor more information .  
 I love  . Fore ever LOVE ! () () () 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BadSushi
Rating: 8.2
Date: Jun 24, 2007 11:48 am PT
Review:  The sequel the the smash hit Call of Duty, keeps most of the same things that made the first COD 
 fun, but the things it didn't keep makes this game a bit of a dissapointment. They took away some 
 of the things that made the first game easier, and also tinkered with some weapons making them 
 weaker or having new clip sizes. But enough with the complaining lets get to the nitty gritty.
 
  
  Graphics. This is the main thing that seems to keep consistent with the series, and that is the 
 GREAT graphics. They always seem to push them a little further ahead each time. The explosions 
 and smoke effects are great and make people believe that they just could be reinacting a WWII battle. 
 As the game progresses tanks and airplanes are seen and medows and towns are ravedged by war, but 
 the frame rate (at least in my experience) seems to keep on truckin'.
  
  Controls. These kept fairly similar, but if you were a die hard fan of the first game there could 
 be some complaining and whining. Especially when you try to use the scroll button to switch to 
 your next weapon, but accidently take out a grenade... every time. But thats what makes PC gamming 
 great you can always change that. Mouse and keyboard controls still show that FPS on a PC rule.
 
  
  Story. The story is very generic. The same story as other WWII shooters, except with COD fasion 
 they show the other sides (Britsh, Russian, American) . Making this an enhanced version of the first 
 one.
  
  Multiplayer. This was THE biggest dissapointment in the game. With the original COD being so great 
 and fn to get into this one seemed to lose its luster. Ever since COD: UO came out the multiplayer 
 is lacking. The maps are either too small or too big, with many dead ends and maze-like underground 
 tunnels. In most matches people now camp or run around in circles trying to find a target. There 
 are a wide variety of updates making it hard to find the right server that can be played off the 
 bat and the community is not all that helpful.
  
  Sound. This is another thing that COD is famous for, sound. It sounds realistic and entertaining 
 as you hear the cries of your teamates being shot at or a plane screaming as ot falls from the 
 sky, making just the sound a worthwhile thing to listen to.
  
  Overall this game has a great, but extremely short single player (7 hrs) while the multiplayer 
 is confusing and not as fun to get into like the first COD. This is though still one of the greatest 
 WWII shooters out there and people looking for a good FPS experience should check this out, bu 
 tnot before checking out the first in the series. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ChestyMcGee
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 7, 2007 8:36 am PT
Review:  The original Call of Duty was a great step for first person shooters, especially for war and history 
 based theatres of gameplay. It combined amazing sound and graphics with breath taking set-sequences 
 and intense gunplay.
  
  With Call of Duty 2, the developers have taken a, if it ain't broke, don't fix it aproach and that's 
 just fine by me because it keeps the game as perfectly good as it was the previous time around. 
 There are some major differences between the original and the latest.
  
  The most noticably aspect is the mind-blowing graphics. They truely make the game completely new 
 and makes the game one of those rare moments in PC gaming that come along throughout the years 
 that make you say out-load: yeah, I need to buy a new graphics card . The normal mapping on the 
 character models, the smoke effects and the fantastic gun models really demand the most out of 
 your system and you want to give the game everything you can to make it extra special.
  
  The gameplay is as good as ever, it can be as realistic (Brothers in Arms) or as arcadey (early 
 Medal of Honours) as you want it. I personally lead to the more realistic gameplay style with no 
 cross hair, low health and hard enemies and play the game skipping from cover to cover, laying 
 down smokes and covering fire and doing everything step by step. That might not be your playing 
 stlye so fine, put the cross hair back on, put it on easy difficulty and run and gun like your 
 playing Unreal Tournament in 1941. One of my few problems with it is, however, that there are some 
 moments that delve into Medal of Honour style moments of almost Die Hard level action movie insanity. 
 These moments include when you mount and huge AAgun to shoot down hundreds of Stuka dive-bombers 
 all attacking you... for some reason, an on rails gunning part in a German armoured car, complete 
 with Panzershreck wielding, roof-top bound Krauts and a moment when you can control a huge Flak 
 88 gun all on your own and take out wave after wave of enemy... complete with explosive barrels. 
 Moments like these just ruin the game
  
  There are some bad points to the game however. One of my few problems with it is that there are 
 some moments that delve into Medal of Honour style moments of almost Die Hard level action movie 
 insanity. These moments include when you mount and huge AA-gun to shoot down hundreds of Stuka 
 dive-bombers all attacking you... for some reason, an on rails gunning part in a German armoured 
 car, complete with Panzershreck wielding, roof-top bound, Krauts and a moment when you can control 
 a huge Flak 88 gun all on your own and take out wave after wave of enemy... complete with explosive 
 barrels. Moments like these just ruin the game. For one, the enemy use grenades far more often 
 than they do in the previous game and your comrades and enemies can throw them back at the thrower, 
 you, however, can not which is a tad annoying. Also, the lack of ragdolls makes the game seem a 
 little outdated, enemies and allies die in a dull and poorly acted dying animation and roll around 
 on the floor for hours in an equaly bad hit animation. Another problem is the amount of times when 
 the AI seem to think sprinting right at you is the best thing to do when they have perfectly good 
 cover to use.
  
  Apart from this, the game is almost flawless. It is a pretty short game, however, but this is a 
 only a small issue when you've got an awesome multiplayer game to play too. It's not perfect, and 
 it's not trying to do anything extra special but it's still pretty darn good. It's quite simple 
 really, you've got your standard team deathmatch which is the simplest and most played gamemode 
 but there are also some modes which sadly don't work on CoD. The deathmatch and capture the flag 
 are far too slow on CoD and the HQ gamemode is virtually unplayed due to a lack of explanation 
 either in game or in the manual as far as I can tell. This aside though, you really only need TDM 
 to have fun. The other problem with it is, though, that there are only a few maps to play on and 
 even fewer are actually any good. So although there are quiet a few faults with it when all of 
 the good points come together at once it can be really special.
  
  So, all in all, a great singelplayer game with a healthy online if only let down by a short play 
 time and some minor imperfections. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ixtykurrumi
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jun 21, 2007 5:06 pm PT
Review:  If you like WWII games this is one of the games you have to buy, what i like of this game is that 
 it does not have healing packs or something like that, you just get on cover and wait a moment 
 and you'll get again strenght, i also liked thegraphics are very good i also liked that you enter 
 in the houses and everything like that, the missions are very good and it has real missions, i 
 mean, from real WWII it really is realistic also the sound is great, it really makes you feel like 
 you are there, like the action. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mark_webster_87
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 30, 2007 11:49 am PT
Review:  After playing the original Call of Duty, I thought well how can you do any better but they found 
 a way to improve on it and make one of the best sequels and best games of all time.
  
  From the top notch Graphics to amazing gameplay, what more do you want from a FPS game and most 
 likely the best Word War 2 game in history of gaming. You feel like your in the war for real at 
 times and some of the firefights you can get into are just pure awesome. The last mission when 
 you have to get up this German seized hill overlooking a town is one of the most thrilling missions 
 in any game and when you have to defend it with overwhelming numbers around you, tanks closing 
 in and mortar fire raining down on your head, there has never been a more nerve wrecking level 
 in FPS history.
  
  I've come back to the single player missions over and over and with a impressive online system 
 you can never really get bored with this game, which will go down as an all time classic. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: odeclogne
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jun 19, 2007 12:21 am PT
Review:  Like its older sibling, CoD 2 covers World War II across three interwoven campaigns featuring the 
 Russians, the British, and the Americans. However, now you can skip ahead from one faction to another, 
 once you've played through a batch of missions. I personally wasn't champing at the bit to play 
 one or the other, but I guess it's nice to have the functionality there. The game also auto-detects 
 16:9 and 16:10 widescreen ratios, as well as the funky 5:4 ratio for LCD monitors (like 1280x1024) . 
 You'll have a solid selection of performance tweaking options, or you can let the game set what 
 it thinks will be optimal settings. With a 6800GT, 3.0GHz P4 and 1GB of RAM, the game plays quite 
 smoothly at 1280x1024, with anisotropic filtering (to make textures look nicer) and 4xAA (to reduce 
 jagged edges) . There were slowdowns when it rained and when there was a lot of smoke on screen, 
 but it was otherwise quite playable with the latest official nVidia drivers. Speaking of those 
 guys, there's also an Optimize for SLI toggle, but I don't have the luxury of two hot boards, so 
 let's move on.
  Many of you who grabbed the single-player demo noted that the game didn't run all that great. All 
 I can tell you is that the retail version appears to have been optimized. Textures look great, 
 and there's lots of shiny stuff going on. Normal mapping is fairly subtle, except for a few elderly 
 character models who look like they're bathed in a sheen of sweat. It's not quite on par with FEAR, 
 but I think even the hardcore shooter fan will find little to complain about. Most importantly: 
 I saw little sign of cutting corners for multi-platform development (as the game is also coming 
 out on the 360) . I'm pleased to report that everything looks quite sharp. And CoD 2 is about the 
 grisliest game I've seen get the ESRB T rating. There's no blood and guts splashing all over the 
 place, but you will have dying soldiers attempting to drag themselves to safety, only to be bludgeoned 
 to death by a nearby enemy. And they'll scream bloody murder when they die. On the other hand, 
 the only blood you'll see is when you shoot someone, and the profanity stays firmly in PG-13 territory. 
 And there's none of the chunky dismemberment we've seen in Brothers in Arms
  One of the other things I noticed is that CoD isn't as oppressively scripted as the first installment. 
 You'll typically only have one path to one objective, but the game often breaks things up by putting 
 you in a battlefield and giving you a batch of locations you have to reach, typically to kill people 
 or blow something up. And in these situations, you can choose what order you want to go in. There 
 are still the dreaded minefields painted into areas that diverge from where the level designers 
 want you to go, and objects piled up just so at key junctions, funneling you down one arbitrary 
 path. But it's good to see that Infinity Ward is making an effort to open things up a little. I 
 also noticed that there didn't appear to be the Infinite Soldier problem, where the bad guys (always 
 the German army) keep on spawning from behind an obstacle until you've crossed an invisible threshold 
 on the map. They will eventually stop coming (and I also noticed that it's a good idea to keep 
 your eye on any nearby MG42, as they tend to gravitate towards the emplaced machine gun) . Lastly, 
 there's no Medal of Honor-style sniper gauntlet to deal with, and few snipers in general -- which 
 is not to say that the Germans don't have any tricks up their sleeves. But I won't spoil anything 
 for you. You'll have plenty of other gauntlets to deal with, a gameplay loop that Infinity Ward 
 has honed to a science -- almost to a fault, in fact. The tempo almost always leads up to defend 
 this location while waiting for reinforcements, complete with a timer that, while helpful, does 
 reduce immersion, in my opinion. Then the cavalry comes in, the music swells emotionally, and someone 
 says something dramatic. It's still an effective device, but it does get a little exhausting at 
 times. The climactic mission of each campaign doesn't have the nearly cartoonish difficulty and 
 scope of United Offensive, instead choosing to emphasize a lower-key but nevertheless crucial engagement, 
 like Brothers in Arms did. You'll still go through some famous locations, like Stalingrad and the 
 American landing at Normandy, but the bulk of your effort will be in securing key locations and 
 gradually pushing back the German offensive. CoD still often meets and sometimes exceeds the grandeur 
 of the original, but it does so typically by pitting you against an amazing number of enemies, 
 rather than letting the historic scenery and cinematic music do a lot of the legwork. Your non-interactive 
 squad mates will also do a good deal of legwork on their own, and I think their power level was 
 nicely balanced. This is a very difficult thing to get right apparently, with some games turning 
 your cohorts into cannon fodder and others making them dumb automatons who don't move out of a 
 line of fire unless you give them enough space nearby. No, the soldiers here do a great job of 
 sticking with you, opening fire and calling out targets and enemy grenades. They do such a good 
 job of following along with your progress that they'll position themselves and wait apparently 
 forever if they get a little too far ahead of you, which is another one of those moments where 
 scripted gameplay can be a blessing and a curse. It doesn't happen often, but you'll notice when 
 the invisible choreographer is waiting for you to pick up the cue and continue on. But for a script-oriented 
 game, the enemy AI is pretty darned impressive, especially with their grenades. They might catch 
 themselves in the face every once in a while, but hey, who doesn't? The overwhelming majority of 
 the time, they'll be menacing you with potato mashers flung expertly at your location, forcing 
 you to back up, potentially into their line of sight. Your cohorts don't do a consistently good 
 job of getting out of the way, but they're constantly and subtly replaced, which is another element 
 you make like or dislike. Personally, I thought, The more, the merrier, but I could see how the 
 constant refill of meat shields will feel a little artificial. Believe me, though, there will be 
 times when you be extremely grateful for every extra hand. If it wasn't for the grenade indicator 
 popping up every time a German decided to turn me into soldier salad, I would have been toast more 
 times than I can count. Yes, another potentially immersion-breaking artifice, but also a life saver. 
 Especially when you have more than one of them coming at you. The enemy will also progressively 
 retreat, stay behind cover, run from grenades (which you can't cook, unfortunately) , aim effectively, 
 savage you with melee attacks when you get too close, and generally provide a challenging opponent 
 who's nearly as good at the game as you are. If the terrain is wide open enough, they might even 
 flank you, although it's typically not an option. But they will toss the mashers at you just when 
 you think you've gotten comfortable behind that wall. They won't really use the smoke grenades 
 that much, but you certainly will, because there are a lot of guns, people, and other problems 
 sitting between you and victory; a little extra battlefield haze goes a long way. However, smoke 
 grenades won't be the difference between life and death, since you can rapidly regenerate health. 
 Yep, as long as you duck behind something for a few seconds, after taking a bullet or three in 
 the face, you'll be just fine. You won't be able to sit on grenades or dive into a nest of angry 
 Germans, but you'll be able to stick and move like Arnold Schwarzenegger. Even an MG42 is manageable, 
 as long as you have something solid in between it and you. Hide, pop up, fix, fire, drop back down, 
 repeat ad infinitum. This Wolverine-like feature will be essential in certain high-powered engagements, 
 but I would sooner have health packs or a medic, rather than be able to take hordes of enemies 
 almost single-handedly. It's cool for a while, but then things get a little too easy, once you 
 get the rhythm down. And it's there on all difficulty levels, and in multiplayer. The only way 
 you're going to die is if you can't somehow escape from a grenade or if you stumble into several 
 enemies at once, where their melee attacks will make quick work of you. The amount of damage you 
 can handle dwindles quite a lot as you ramp up the difficulty levels, but you'll always be able 
 to fully recover from pretty serious damage. Fortunately, this dynamic isn't as useful in multiplayer, 
 because the damage model is pretty steep. Unless you're on a large map with few people, you'll 
 get popped before you can regenerate. Snipers can get one-shot kills, and other weapons can as 
 well, if you aim for the head. In addition to deathmatch, team deathmatch, and CTF, you'll also 
 get an HQ Mode and a Search and Destroy Mode. The last two are objective-based, with icons showing 
 up on the map indicating where you need to go. In HQ mode, each side must attempt to establish 
 their base. When their HQ is enabled, your team members can't respawn when they die, and you must 
 destroy their HQ object to bring those folks back to life. If everyone on your team dies, it's 
 game over. You'll also get one point for every second that your HQ is up, with the winner also 
 determined by who gets the highest score, but primarily by who survives. Search and Destroy is 
 pretty self-descriptive. You have to get to a object, typically an 88 gun or the like, and blow 
 it up. The defender can defuse the bomb, or they can also win by killing your team before you plant 
 the explosive. All in all, the weapons feel pretty well balanced, and the gameplay should be familiar 
 to those who played the original Call of Duty. It doesn't outdo the single-player portion (nor 
 did we expect it to) , but it serves as a fine complement that should extend the life of the game. 
 It has 13 maps, including three remakes from the original game, up to 32 players per server, VOIP 
 chat, and two weapons not available in single-player. The levels I played felt generally balanced 
 towards the maximum, and most of them are wide-open and multi-tiered. Campers will have a tough 
 time finding a place to roost.
  Call of Duty is part of a proud, if tired, subgenre of shooters, and once again it manages to rise 
 above the weariness of the material to find something not only fresh but visceral and immediate. 
 It looks great, it sounds awesome, and it provides both meaty single-player and multiplayer. However, 
 I find implementing regenerating health to be a little troublesome. It allows you to experience 
 a kind of combat only a mythical super-soldier could withstand, and in so doing, propels the game 
 from gritty authenticity to John Woo fantasy. It's difficult to feel like you're really there when 
 you continue to move unabated after taking several MP44 rounds to the chest. Maybe I've just become 
 to accustomed to the necessary fiction of health packs, but this doesn't feel like an honest alternative. 
 Perhaps Call of Duty did fall sway to the evils of multi-platform development after all in implementing 
 a Master Chief-like health system -- but without the science fiction context to go along with it. 
 In the long run, it's up to the gamer to decide whether he can she can dig it. If you do, there's 
 a really fun game to be found. It's just not as fun as it might have been. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mitch774
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jun 15, 2007 6:55 am PT
Review:  Call of Duty 2 seems like a huge step up form the original Call of duty in every way. The Sound, 
 Graphics, Gameplay and Realism are all so great. For starters, the sounds are amazing. Using a 
 5.1 channel surround I could swear there were real explosions going off behind me, real guns being 
 fired around me, and aircraft flying overhead. The graphics too are a huge step up from the original. 
 Much nicer textures, Particle effects, Lighting and shadows all set this game off. It is also much 
 more realistic now that there are no Med packs lying around. Definitely a must have for anyone 
 that enjoys first person shooters. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: boy6464
Rating: 9.9
Date: Jun 12, 2007 9:07 pm PT
Review:  This gem of a shooter is excellent. It runs through several campaigns as different nationalities, 
 just as the other Call of Duties in the series, and it taught me a thing or two about history as 
 I went along. Although it is a terrific game, it has a setback or two. One of the only things I 
 found wrong, however, was the way the health system was created. If you take enough hits, your 
 screen will begin to grow red and your character will breathe hard. If you take cover for about 
 five seconds, you will be fine and ready to fight again. Not so great, in my reality checkbook. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lilhawkkid182
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 10, 2007 6:17 am PT
Review:  The dead are the only people to see the end of war. Heroes are just as brave as the ordinary man, 
 they are just braver for five minutes longer. If you are a veteran Call of Duty fan you might recognize 
 some of those lines as things that come up on the screen after you have died. I picked those to 
 because those are the ones that stuck with me the most. This game will stick with you forever. 
 This game is a game that you will never forget that you played. This is one of those rare games 
 that put you into the shoes of the person in the game and makes you feel like you were there. In 
 addition, after finishing Call of Duty 2 I feel that this game should go down in history as the 
 best and most immersive shooter ever made. I feel that this game does the best job telling the 
 stories of the men who fought the Nazi's in World War Two. This is my review of Call of Duty 2. 
 The game Call of Duty 2 is the sequel to the game that redefined the World War Two genre by having 
 the gamer play on the American, British, and Russian side of the war fighting the Nazis. That exact 
 same premise has been brought back again with beautiful graphics, deep gameplay, and some of the 
 greatest music that I have ever heard in a video game. World War Two shooter fans this game is 
 for you. If you let this game pass on by then you will be missing out on one of the greatest gaming 
 experiences both off line and on. The game starts out with the Russian missions. These are the 
 weakest of all the missions. They fun but they are just more of the same thing that you did in 
 the Russian campaign in the first Call of Duty on the PC, minus the awesome sniper segments. I 
 really felt like that I was playing the directors cut of the movie Enemy at the Gates. Which since 
 I did not find it to be all that great of a movie kind of made me not enjoy the Russian missions 
 as much as I wanted to and as much as I had in the first Call of Duty. The second campaign in the 
 game is the British missions. These are fun missions as they span from Africa to France. This part 
 of the game is so much better than it was in the first Call of Duty. You meet and fight along some 
 people that you have seen from the first one like Price. Another thing that I liked was since I 
 am not a big fan of the British weapons especially the machine gun that looked like a old fashion 
 movie reel is pretty much gone and you use the Thompson. The third and final mission campaign in 
 this game is you guessed it the US missions. These are the most fun but however the most short. 
 The game starts out with you guessed D-Day, but this game shows you a side of D-Day that you have 
 never played before. This time you go up the side of a mountain and come out on top of the beach 
 and you clear the way. Remember the D-Day mission in Medal of Honor Allied Assault? Think that 
 plus more and it's all in just one level. That's how intense this game it. Graphics wise this is 
 the best looking game out there in my opinion. I just don't get why a game that looks this great 
 would have so much slowdown on a higher end machine like mine it just doesn't really make all that 
 much sense to me. Anyway so on the D-Day level right; I am in the boat and the beginning to become 
 chilce part where you fall to the ground and you get helped up part comes along. Almost bored by 
 this I look around waiting for something to happen and then something did happen. I saw the face 
 of the guy helping me up. I have never seen anything so real before in a game. I will complain 
 about the water effects being very, very plain. There it is, Call of Duty 2 the best shooter and 
 World War Two shooter that you can play right now. With stellar online multiplayer and a great 
 single player story that will leave you wanting more this game does it all. I have yet to play 
 a game that gives me this much immersion into the game itself. Definitely the most realistic game 
 that I have ever played and is most likely the more realistic game out there on the market. Call 
 of Duty 2 I salute you, and to anyone who plans on making a World War Two first person shooter, 
 you better look at Call of Duty 2 for such a great example. The AI is incredibly smart and will 
 do pretty much anything you see an enemy in a movie do. Pick this game up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hot_Potato
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 21, 2007 7:07 pm PT
Review:  Take the original Call of Duty, up the graphics, sound, explosions, and intensity and you have 
 Call of Duty 2. The gameplay in Call of Duty 2 is essentially the same as Call of Duty one, although 
 in my opinion it was executed better. The firefights are way more intense, with some battles lasting 
 up to ten minutes. You again play as the Russians, then the British, then the Americans.
  
  You start off as a Russian private in basic training, and you're quickly thrust into battle. Some 
 of the most memorable parts in the Russian campaign are when you're charging with your comrades 
 and everyone is screaming at the top of their lungs.
  
  The graphics are much improved in Call of Duty 2. Even though the game is going on two years old, 
 it still looks pretty maxed out. The game also features great particle effects, like when a grenade 
 blows up sending dirt or snow in the air.
  
  The sound is possibly the best part of the game. From the cracks of your rifle to the sound of 
 a whole building collapsing, it definitely adds to the immersion. The game also features tons of 
 chatter. It's not like most games where they yell Enemy spotted . In this game your teammates constantly 
 yell out the position of the enemy, when there's a grenade, if they've been hit, or are reloading. 
 On top of that the enemies do the same thing, making the game very intense.
  
  The single player is short and can probably be finished in less than ten hours on regular difficulty. 
 The game also features a great multiplayer component with all the basic game types. The game is 
 the most popular online FPS out right now. The game runs for about $25 now so you should definitely 
 pick it up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shredicalous
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jun 4, 2007 1:29 am PT
Review:  This game just plain and simply rocks.
  if you love a good shooter, and you like your war history, then its a given you will love the single-player 
 side of CoD2. For those that love a good multi-player FPS then this game rocks. Playing online 
 does take a bit of practice but once you get into it, it is very hard to stop. It is one of those 
 games like css that you can just keep playing. The online australian community is also great which 
 can is what keeps a lot of people into it. The graphics aren't to bad but aren't to extremely good 
 which means you don't have to go and spend countless dollars trying to run this on your machine. 
 CoD2 is fun fast action for an online FPS player. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: X_ICE-MONKEY_X
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jun 3, 2007 3:21 pm PT
Review:  Call of Duty 2 is a sequel to Call of Duty, who couldn't figure that out? But there are many differences 
 between the games and most are beneficial. Although both games are based in World War 2 they follow 
 quite different story lines, but have some characters borrowed from previous games. After only 
 playing the game for a short time you can feel the comfort the original Call of Duty provided which 
 made it a great shooter in the first place. Running this game on full graphics is definitely something 
 to be proud of, both the visuals and sounds have improved enormously. The graphics and sound only 
 add to the thrill of its smooth game play and indulging storyline that puts you right in the heart 
 of some historic battles. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Enblogopedia
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jun 3, 2007 4:13 am PT
Review:  This game is very cool. It`s very fast and I didn't had any problems when playing it. I thought 
 it would slowdown my PC and I should drop the quality to speedup the game but this wasn't the case!
 
  
  The game story is long enough to enjoy it (not like Tom Clancy's Rainbow Six Vegas!)
  Only if they've added a few clips within the game, I think it would add something to the game.
 
  I would play with the sniper forever, just gemme the ammo :)
  Just hoping the new release would be like Tom Clancy's Rainbow Six Vegas graphics (look) but with 
 the same feel . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tony01987
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jun 29, 2007 5:21 am PT
Review:  I've played MOHAA before this and i've been going on and on about how good a war game it was but 
 then i got a hold of this. NOw this is a war game, now i'm not knocking MOHAA but damn this was 
 good the game play and graphics not to mention sound effects was boss!!! although i beat the game 
 in three days after playing it for like two hours at a time give or take it's truly a claasic now 
 i jus gotta get my hands on part three. i'm usualyl a hard pleaser when it ocmes to games but i 
 give this one three thumbs up, the only thing i wished they had put into this game was piloting 
 planes, that would have completely done it for me but overall 10/10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lakaivan
Rating: 10
Date: May 30, 2007 7:20 pm PT
Review:  excellent game, easy to play, and every time saved himself, amazing, good artwork, and in the end 
 you wanna play more, i ll be waiting for cod 3, i recomended this game, i hope that activision 
 making more and more cod, because ever be the best game, take the example ea games and making medal 
 of honor best. Most anyone who plays games would more than likely be very impressed with Call of 
 Duty's authentic presentation, well designed and often very intense single-player missions, and 
 fast-paced, entertaining multiplayer modes and delivers some intense and challenging firefights 
 in its single-player campaign, while also offering a solid multiplayer component for the long haul. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sytzepunk
Rating: 9
Date: May 22, 2007 3:46 pm PT
Review:  Call of Duty 2 is the sequal to the smashhit WW2 game Call of Duty, and yet again in CoD2 you'll 
 be shooting nazi's down with the British, Russian and American campaigns.
  
  Call of Duty, popular franchise about WW2, the diffrence between Call of Duty and other WW2 shooters 
 is that you won't fight alone, in games like Medal of Honour you'll be playing 90% of the missions 
 alone, in the Call of Duty franchise you'll always fight with a squad or whole division, I just 
 love to see hundreds of friendly NPC's shouting their orders, shooting enemies and try to get further 
 the line.
  
  Gameplay:
  Gameplay is solid, you'll be going thru a nice tutorial in Russia in this one, giving objectives 
 to pass like shooting helmets and milkbottles in a certain amount of time, you'll be giving instructions 
 on how to use every weapon (originial WW2 weapons) and how to throw grenades (frags and smoke grenades) , 
 the Ironsight is incredibly accurate, which helps to hit well-hidden enemies.
  
  Other things in the gameplay is following you're compass! You'll be giving directions on where 
 to go so you can save you're savepoint and get you're next step in the mission. An other feature 
 in the game is health recovery, somewhat the same as Halo 2, if you get hit to much you'll be forced 
 to take cover or you'll die.
  
  Sometimes you'll be giving oppertunity to ride tanks, which vary's the game abit.
  
  Graphics:
 
  The games graphics are the best I've seen for a WW2 shooter, all the explosions look incredibly, 
 mud effects look great to, the smoke looks dead-real and even though the physics aren't the best, 
 the graphics are top-notch!
  
  Story:
  You'll be giving 3 campaigns, each of them let you play a soldier out Russia, America or England/Britain, 
 in loading screens you'll be seeing a diary of these players, mostly talking about their next objective.
 
  
  WW2 story's are always overdone, but the mixed emotions about these 3 soldiers are sometimes rather 
 interesting.
  
  AI:
  Enemies take cover, throw frag grenades, toss back grenades you threw at them, you can hear their 
 german brabbling about something like taking cover, the AI could be better tho, I'd like to see 
 enemy's make use of smoke grenades tho the blind our fire.
  
  Multiplayer:
  The games multiplayer is fantastic, I spent hours playing CTF (Capture the doll) and team deatchmatch, 
 some of the maps come from the orignial single player, some are specialy made for multiplayer.
 
  
  Is it a good FPS:
  It certainly is, its a great game with fantastic multiplayer, graphics and variety of levels, the 
 fact you'll never fight alone makes it stand out from other WW2 shooters. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: farnerud
Rating: 9.8
Date: May 22, 2007 7:03 am PT
Review:  One of the best FPS's made to date. It's an innovative game, as you are able to play as Soviets, 
 British and North-Americans, throughout the campaigns.
  From mission 1 the game is extremely addictive, sound is great, graphics are just right and the 
 gameplay experience is fantastic. The A. I. is very reliable, and it (obviously) n gets better as 
 the difficulty level is raised.
  All the weapons and armour that are available for you to play come in an extraordinary offer, as 
 you can shoot from '88s to anti-air machine guns.
  If oyu like WWII FPS's and haven't played this baby here, you're missing a lot ! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Khellendros3770
Rating: 8.3
Date: May 17, 2007 4:27 pm PT
Review:  Call of Duty 2 is a world war II shooter that lets you play as several of the nations that were 
 part of the Allied Forces fighting the Germans.
  
  This game is a good all around shooter even though there is a lack of vehicles to acquire on the 
 battle field. There are a few missions that you will be piloting a tank, but other then that and 
 the occasionally moment spent firing from the back of a vehicle you will spend all your time on 
 foot. If you like a FPS that you can run around and just kill kill kill, then this isn't for you. 
 Spending much time out of cover usually ends in a quick death, and I mean quick. There is no specific 
 health bar but you can absorb a few rounds and live, spending time behind cover resting will help 
 get you back up and going. But once your vision blurs to red, you will be waiting a long time to 
 recover, so stay behind cover and try to use a pop/shoot/drop tactic to survive. I found this was 
 more the case earlier in the game rather then later. I had more trouble as a Russian soldier early 
 in the game then I did later as any of the other nationalities.
  
  The weapons are nicely varied and the attention to detail in the game is a nice bonus. When you 
 bring a rifle up to sight down range and you can read the model number on the barrel, I consider 
 that attention to detail. The maps themselves were well done but I would have liked to seen more 
 accessible buildings to hide and shot from, rather than just the few that weren't locked. Also 
 there were some glitches with the graphics that sometimes made maps blurry and even lose pieces.
 
  
  I enjoyed this game for the environment as well as the playability. I have a soft spot for WWII 
 games mainly because both my grandfathers were in the war, but besides that I believe this to be 
 a well developed and addicting game without being to hard to pick up and play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: plasot
Rating: 7.1
Date: May 17, 2007 6:17 am PT
Review:  After an amazing previous parts (Call of Duty and United Offensive) I was waiting for something 
 special. No, I was sure that this game will be amazing. Graphics, sounds are great, no doubt about 
 it, but gameplay not. In the beginning it looks interesting but later missions are boring - only 
 fighting without sense. You're forced to move forward killing as many Krauts as it possible, that's 
 all. Fighting looks good, Krauts are hiding behind crates or other elements of scenery shooting 
 to you, calling backup, shouting - your team mates also behave good - they're hiding, shouting 
 etc. But you're teammates are not necessery to finished mission. You don't have to pay attention 
 to what they're doing because you are able to finish mission without help. In my opinion it's the 
 biggest disadvantage of this game. In previous part in every step game was showing you that war 
 was not won by one man but by effort of many - so were is it in this part? If you're searching 
 a game with complex missions (like covert operations, blowing the bridges, escaping) and if you 
 want to play with your 'brothers of arms' along your side - play again Call of Duty United Offensive 
 or Brothers of Arms. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Australians
Rating: 10
Date: May 12, 2007 8:18 pm PT
Review:  Call of duty the best
  If you want action play this game its good as shows how real war was deadly hey but you know its 
 not real so enjoy (Aus) from  
 
  Call of duty the best
  If you want action play this game its good as shows how real war was deadly hey but you know its 
 not real so enjoy (Aus) from  
 
  Call of duty the best
  If you want action play this game its good as shows how real war was deadly hey but you know its 
 not real so enjoy (Aus) from  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: nacho7600
Rating: 7.8
Date: May 1, 2007 9:10 pm PT
Review:  Well Ive played this game and I think its great. But the only thing is that I want to change some 
 personal settings (i. e. the cross-airs is white (hard to see) ) and I would love to change it to 
 a color that I can see at all times. The allied part of the game is great, but they could also 
 add the axis so that the player sees the other side of the war is fought. Ive seen it in other 
 games (Red Orchestra) and I am not a Nazi I just think that the player could be thinking like the 
 axis. I bet if they did add that and did an update, more people would play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: worting
Rating: 9.4
Date: Apr 28, 2007 3:28 pm PT
Review:  have played all kinds of games in the past and now I am very selective about picking games as many 
 turn out to be waste of time and money, despite high recommendations. I like FPS over adventure 
 games, but then again I don't dig all FPS or adventure games. Since my Wolfenstein days in the 
 early nineties, I have picked almost all hit FPS -- but Call of Duty beats them all (well, Medal 
 of Honour also stands by COD) . Why? Because the game was designed in a way that made me feel as 
 a part of the war. I had war comrades who ran with me and helped me and cried for my help. I had 
 war responsibilities and I had to do them right. At times I would brave showers of bullets that 
 I must overcome to save my teammates and move to the next assignment. Call of Duty 2 basically put 
 you in a frontline against the germans.. The gameplay makes you feel that you are really in a world 
 war 2 if you blast you speaker to the max and have a high end PC.. There's not much tactical involve 
 in COD 2 besides covering behind crates andobjects.. but that's where it keeps you goin on for actions 
 non stop.. Every turn.. every minute.. you'll be shooting the germans mercilessly.. The gameplay in 
 call of duty 2 hasn't change much if you've played the first call of duty on PC.. but because of 
 the fun factor.. you always wanna play more.. COD 2 has one of the nicest graphics in 2005 no doubt 
 about it.. and still remains one of the nicest graphics and gameplay in FPS history. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Wil_Antonio
Rating: 9.6
Date: Apr 26, 2007 10:24 pm PT
Review:  what can i say about this game, completely immersive, hard and fun. Well, for the hard part i mean 
 ... decent compared to most shooters, but its really fun.
  Of course you have to play in the hardest mode to appreciate this game.
  
  I loved everything 
 about this game, the sniping is satisfying (specially when holding the breath) and with a good 
 viriaty of weapons (different ways to reload)
  the grenade indicator is extremely useful
  wish i could throw them back though.
  And i just love shooting those nazi bastards. The sound 
 amazing as always and the graphics are nice
  pretty much this is one of the funnest shooters ive ever played 
::::::

::::::
UserName: easyvoice
Rating: 9.2
Date: May 4, 2007 9:57 pm PT
Review:  Call of Duty 2 is quite simply, one of the best WWII game ever made. The game is so very large 
 in scope and has excellent and complex missions and objective structure. CoD 2 is much more than 
 just a WWII game; it is by far the most realistic, history-accurate game Ive ever played. It is 
 a delicately tuned piece of art with so much attention to details in every aspect of the game.
 
  Call of duty 2 has rock-solid gameplay elements; the game levels were very well balanced, the 
 constant feel of danger around the corner never left me while playing. The A. I. is really good 
 and the action is the perfect. The game introduces one of the largest battles and most detailed 
 environments on video games. It is very satisfying and enjoyable, full of gunfights, tension, confusion 
 and wars horror intelligently balanced in breathtaking visual elements.
  The graphics are jaw-dropping, the textures are meticulously detailed, and the misty weather effects, 
 realistic smoke all put together an excellent game look from beginning to end. One of the elements 
 that made the graphics of CoD 2 quite astoundingly beautiful is backgrounds; they are jam-packed 
 with details to the point of overflow.
  There are three different campaigns in Call of Duty 2, Russian, British and American campaign where 
 the player takes on the roles of an enlisted man in the army. The different campaigns not only 
 change up the players character but also the surroundings, atmosphere, weapons, so gameplay mood 
 continues to refresh every campaign. The gameplay offers quite a challenge; the normal mode is 
 relatively hard in some missions. The musical score elevate the game; it makes it dramatic, gripping, 
 and impressive.
  Finally the overall presentation of the CoD2 is just superb. Breathtaking graphics, great visuals, 
 compelling audio effects, dramatic musical scores with really really fun gameplay yet brutal at 
 some points; all these make this game one of the best first person shooter. So very highly recommended. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: foleygra
Rating: 9.3
Date: Apr 24, 2007 6:21 pm PT
Review:  I haven't played the single player because the place I go to play computer games only has the multiplayer 
 part of this game playable. But this aspect of the game is truly amazing. The maps have places 
 that give every certain gun an advantage. I plan on buying the game as soon as I get a computer 
 that can pull it off because it is that good. It is well worth the money to play even just one 
 aspect of the game because it's so addictive, it's almost impossible to get tired of it. Overall 
 I would rate this in the high 9's. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PawCabZ
Rating: 9.6
Date: Apr 22, 2007 12:54 am PT
Review:  Adolf and Rommel would be proud, since it turns out that Medal of Honor and Brothers in Arms were 
 raiding parties, cunningly designed to divert my attention away from the main assault. Packing 
 more power than an Atomic bomb, to say Call of Duty 2 blew me away is an understatement. One thing 
 is obvious; in terms of sheer spectacle Call of Duty 2 is a staggering achievement. A salivating 
 glimpse at the potential of next-gen gaming, you'll duck, swear and dive for cover, all from the 
 comfort of your living room as fierce firefights, howitzer shells and aerial bombardments devastate 
 the landscape. These battlefields literally bristle with life (not to mention death) ; after Call 
 of Duty 2, I guarantee every other first person shooter will seem barren and lifeless. Yet, strangely 
 enough, it was the smoke. Yes plain old smoke, which really caught my red-rimmed eye. Scoff all 
 you like, but I reckon Portable Connection will turn out to be every bit as revolutionary as Half-Life 
 2's physics. Allow me to explain... In the past, those pesky mounted Ferman MG42's were able to 
 mow down Allied battalions like ripe hay, right? Not anymore. Lob a smoke grenade into the maelstrom 
 and you'll be able to sneak around the flanks to exercise a bloody revenge. With this new, deadly 
 weapon at your disposal, a whole new raft of tactics lie waiting to be uncovered. But be careful 
 there are new pitfalls as well... For instance, man a machine gun turret yourself, and if you fail 
 to pick your shots carefully, you'll kick up a dust storm. Next thing, you know, you'll have enraged 
 Germans swarming all around you. It's the extra dimension that pulls Call of Duty through the leaner 
 times when you're flagging after blowing away your umpteenth identikit Nazi corpse. Did I mention 
 the audio yet? Battlefields resound to non-stop screams, roars, explosions and gunfire, as well 
 as some incredibly impressive context sensitive battle chatter. Okay, so it's mostly a case of 
 throwaway one-liners like Germans by the stone wall! or in the case of the British, you bloody 
 w*****s!'' But it brings new meaning to the often-recycled and over-used phrase theater of war. 
 Somewhat contrived can-be-completed-in-any-order: objectives failed to convince me that Call of 
 Duty 3 had shaken off its linear, set piece-obsessed heritage, but that's not necessarily a bad 
 thing. After all, what you see here is what you get; namely 10 hours of unforgettable first-person 
 shooting ecstasy, reliving WW2's most unforgettable and unprecedented vigor.
  
  Graphics: 94%
  Particle effects, textures, models, level design... Call of Duty 2 smacked my 
 gobs.
  
  Gameplay: 90%
  Succeeds in making WW2 feel fresh, the highest compliment I can bestow
  
  Lifespan: 84%
  
 Get through the main level in 10 hours, and then spend another 100 on multi-player.
  
  Sound: 90%
  Got a 5.1 speaker? It's got to the most ballistic shooter sound.
  
  Gore Factor: 
 85%
  It's a bloody beautiful battlefield out there. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Aloucard
Rating: 7
Date: Apr 21, 2007 3:37 am PT
Review:  I played this game a lot, not only in LAN games also in multiplayer games on-line. In the beggining 
 i thouth it that the game rocks. But during playing
  on line or LAN i started to mention a lot of things that was not right.
  
  First of all i have 
 to say thats my opinion but i thing that others to will have saw these problems? bugs? what can 
 i say. Although that im a fun of CoD: UO, the game rocks till now, i couldnt adjustable the games 
 flow.
  
  While playing CoD2 i started missing and also hating some things, these things i'll tell you people 
 right now.
  
  First of all the thing that i dont like is about health. There you dont have an healthbar, with 
 the result if someone hits and your screen shows blood and you hear your heartbeat if you manage 
 to escape and hide for a while you'll be healthy as you are. Bad, because you dont know if you 
 hit your opponent hard
  or you just scrathed him. An other thing that i mentioned its also about the firing rate of the 
 weapons. Its just stupid to think that the MP-44 didnt have an
  alternate switch . Other problem is the grenades, you can no longer cook them.
  Bad from one 
 side because the people have a habit to throw the nades all over the place with the result if you 
 where dead and just respawn to die again from
  a loose grenade. Also there you cant run, you think you run. You cant grab an second weapon, you 
 must first throw your pistol to pickup a second weapon. Smoke grenades when comes a lot, and i 
 mean when 4 persons
  decide to throw at the same time smoke nades the game actually starts to LAG. They removed the 
 protables, it was a good a idea if you are playing like
  team, and i mean like team. It was very helpfull weapon for CTF games or SD games to.
  
  Thats 
 all about missing things for the game. For me actually in Mp the only
  thing thats actually counts is the graphics.
  
  Now you are going to say, man there are MODS 
 about these things you wrote, and im gonna say why we must make mods about these thinks while
 
  activision have them in UO and added more with the patches. Also i run the game in any setting 
 to see the behavior during LAN or on-line gaming. Only if i had the minimum settings the game had 
 an normal behavior. You can imagine what happend when palying 15 vs 15 CTF or SD
  or HQ and people started to throw smokes. I just saw the whole uinverse from the lag.
  
  So 
 thats all from me people. I decide to wrote that review after long playing
  time and also wanted to see what the released patches fixed and to have a complete image and behavior 
 of the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ahp12
Rating: 9.2
Date: Apr 16, 2007 5:40 pm PT
Review:  From the start, Call of Duty was an amazing game. Call of Duty atounded with breathtaking gameplay, 
 and I think for then, good graphics. Now Call of Duty 2 takes it up a notch. Everything in Call 
 of Duty 2 is better. Naturally, the games graphics have been updated to new standards. From what 
 I see on my computer, this game looks pretty darn good. Sound is pretty straight forward. Guns 
 firing, and soldiers screaming hasn't really been any different now, than it has three years ago. 
 The Singleplayer is kinda short, though its intense with flavor. At first you can only play the 
 Russian campaign, but as you beat Missions, the British, and the American Campaign are unlocked. 
 Each country has a different soldier, with a different name and identity. The multiplayer is naturally 
 the strongest part of the game. Owning people has never been so fun. Snipe somebody from the other 
 side of the map, or take it to the close quarters. Even though it takes a lot of skill to get started, 
 the game gets progressively better as you gain skill. Also, the game doesn't have a ranking system, 
 so the only thing other players will see is your score in the current round.
  
  Overall, the game is very good, though the single player could be longer. Yet, the multiplayer 
 will make up for that part. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Blu_Falcon37
Rating: 9.7
Date: Apr 16, 2007 5:07 pm PT
Review:  Most of you are probably thinking, ''Oh, great another crappy WWII game''. But wait just a second, 
 this game is far from crap, its a masterpiece. Everything about this game is nearly perfect. And 
 it will show you the horrors that the brave soldiers of WWII went through.
  
  The Single-Player Campaign puts you in the shoes of 3 soldiers, Pvt. Vasili Koslov, Sgt. John Davis, 
 and Cpl. Bill Taylor. You also get to control a tank as Commander David Welsh. The campaign takes 
 you from the freezing city of Stalingrad, to the hot desert country of Tunisia, and finally to 
 the beaches and hills of France. The campaigns usually have you destroying a target, securing buildings, 
 or fending off enemy attacks. The different locations and weapons of the Russian, British, and American 
 campaigns keep the game fresh. Although the single player campaign doesn't give you any bonuses 
 to use during online play, it is still fun and challenging and shouldn't be missed.
  
  Now its in the multiplayer where this game shines. In multiplayer there is multiple different game 
 types. From the standard issue Deathmatch and Team-Deathmatch, to the unique Search and Destroy, 
 and Headquarters. The maps are very nicely designed and are all unique. The maps range in size 
 and have set factions for each map. Almost all weapons from the campaign are available online, 
 plus many extras. The battles are intense and it will take you a few matches to get the hang of 
 it, but once you do, its a blast. Just like any game with multiplayer, multiplayer keeps you playing 
 the game much longer than a game without multiplayer. And Call of Duty 2 keeps the tradition going 
 strong.
  
  The graphics in the game are great. But because the game is a couple years old the graphics show 
 their age compared to games like F. E. A. R and Oblivion. But none the less the graphics are still 
 great
  
  The sound is amazing. From the cry's of downed soldiers, to the bang of multiple grenades going 
 off. And each weapon has a distinct sound and after a while you can differentiate between weapons 
 from sound alone. If only all games could sound this good.
  
  The game has a ton of replay value. The Single-Player campaign has 4 different difficulty levels, 
 including the insanely difficult Veteren level. And the multiplayer keeps the party going even 
 when the single-player has been played out.
  
  Like I said before this game is simply amazing and shouldn't be missed. Even if you hated other 
 WWII shooters, you should still give this game a shot, trust me you won't regret it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Idiom
Rating: 9.3
Date: May 4, 2007 12:53 pm PT
Review:  Well I can say without doubt call of duty 2 is the best WW2 FPS I've played to date and there have 
 been a fair few of them, including COD and road to hill 30.
  
  COD 2 gets pretty much everything right, action is certainly the watch word and you're propelled 
 forwards through Soviet, British, and American campaign elements covering the later portions of 
 ww2.
  
  Each mission is preceded by a black and white cut screen featuring original footage (Military channel?) 
 and an authentic voice over, filling in the background of the war at this point and of your mission. 
 The missions themselves are very well structured and you never get bogged down and yet never find 
 things easy going, a admirable combination.
  
  Graphics: Excellent, well executed though out although I have no doubt future gamers looking back 
 will fell a certain dx9 datedness... unavoidable. Supurb smoke effects.
  
  Sound: Also excellent, although WW2 FPS doesn't really demand much, COD2 delivers all you need,
 
  
  Gameplay: Excellent once again, memorable engaging play.
  
  Value: OK so COD2 suffers from the same ailment as most actions games... its short. BUT there is 
 the multiplayer element too, so I wont penalize the score too much
  
  OK, so at this point in the review you're thinking.. phew, sounds like a almost prefect game right? 
 well there are bugs I'm afriad to say and they seriously detracted from the overall play experience 
 for me. Understand not everyone has problems but for those of us that do you can pretty much subtract 
 4 points from the game rating... just Google DirectX&reg; encountered an unrecoverable error and 
 you'll get the idea. Pretty much every hit on the first page re this generic Directx error relates 
 to COD2. Its sad, if the developer had supported this game more and fixed these problems... bah... 
 I wont let the constant crashing affect my review because I believe most people don't encounter 
 the problem, even so I'm seriously annoyed! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: isaac_ska
Rating: 8.8
Date: Apr 8, 2007 10:45 pm PT
Review:  I think it is one of the better games I've played... It is a humbling experience to be in the shoes 
 of great heroes and go through hell that they have experienced out there in the battlefield.... 
 I own an older graphics card nVidia GeForce 5200, with 512 Mb RAM and a 2.4 GHz P4 Processor and 
 the game played well using the DirectX7 rendering with highest texturing and details... Great work 
 Activision..... Playing the game is no different from other FPS.... There are no life or health 
 packs available in the game, but to recover from your injuries you will have to take cover for 
 a few seconds to recover to full health.... Controls and weapons are good and realistic.... Gameplay 
 and Storyline is very well designed and implemented with footages from the military channel.... 
 I loved this game.... one of the best war games out in the market!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 123dcb
Rating: 9.7
Date: Apr 8, 2007 7:30 am PT
Review:  Get this game you don't need a cutting edge pc to Play it. You play as the russian brittish and 
 american campainghs. The Gameplay is excellent. But if you do things like throw a smoke grenade 
 and jump into the smoke It will make the game slowdowl a little bit. The good thing is this isn't 
 one of those run and gun games. You have to take cover. You can also man turrets drive a tank Or 
 arm a cannon. There could be more weapons (A Flamethrower would be nice) . And The Game could be 
 longer the games about only 10 hours long. The multiplayer is a thumbs up also but the servers 
 can be slow and glitchy sometimes. Overall I highly reccomend this game to all gamers. Thanks for 
 Reading My reveiw for call of duty 2. Heh that ryhmes. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gnrkill
Rating: 9.3
Date: Apr 7, 2007 11:06 am PT
Review:  This game is the 3rd call of duty to be realeased on PC and belive me, i dont think there will 
 be a need for a 3rd. The reason i say this is because this game is so perfect! It has a brilliant 
 singleplayer, and an awsome multiplayer. Of course the singleplayer will contain all the action 
 and massive set pieces that all call of duty games do but what you will find amazing in this game 
 is the feeling of you really fighting alongside these men in a real war! it is truely immense..
 
  But what i thought was the true gem of this game was the extremely addictive multiplayer, like 
 the original activision have achieved an amazingly playable multiplayer section of the game and 
 i am sure you will spend a lot more time online than off.
  All in all this is a great package and truely worth your money, you wont play another game for 
 quite some time :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: krazyorange
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 5, 2007 9:57 am PT
Review:  The first Call of Duty was a relatively-short romp through the basic WWII battlegrounds although 
 it added the sought-after (following 2001's movie Enemy at the Gates) Russian and Stalingrad settings 
 for good measure. I've played CoD2 on the 360 since it arrived, although I neglected the singleplayer 
 in favor of the fantastic multiplay. I picked up the PC version a couple weeks ago specifically 
 for the campaign, and allow me to say: it is fantastic. As opposed to CoD, you begin in Russia, 
 pushing the Nazis from the city and fighting in ultra-fun snow levels. You then precede to Africa 
 to do battle as the Brits against the Desert Rat, and end up in France as the Americans for the 
 finale.
  
  As far as length goes, CoD2 does nothing to extend the six or seven hours on normal difficulty 
 its predecessor boasted, but when the gameplay is this fun and exciting, none of that really matters. 
 Objectives never really vary too much, and involve you planting explosives on various objects from 
 guns to foundations, or clearing a certain area of Nazis. Regardless, the run and gun gameplay 
 is fantastic in generally throws tactics to the wind - which is fine because there is never any 
 claim or requirement of such; simply kill Nazis.
  
  As you've probably heard, the sound effects are top-notch, and to be honest, I've never heard better. 
 Individual weaponry to the opening cutscene soundtrack are masterfully-orchestrated, and you will 
 assuredly be immersed, although I must say, to fully experience the glory, you need some kind of 
 surround sound with bass.
  
  In all, Call of Duty 2 is one of the finest WWII shooters available, and I would go as far as to 
 say it is the best. While I can't vouch for the multiplay in the PC, if it's anything like its 
 360 brother then it is incredibly fun. While the replay isn't very high and I probably will delete 
 it when I'm through with the main campaign (about another hour or two) , it was worth every second 
 and every penny. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AnalogOdyssey
Rating: 8.8
Date: Apr 4, 2007 1:42 pm PT
Review:  A great game it is fun.. I like this game some of the weapons feel better on the COD 1 but this 
 game is really fun. The graphics look great but, sometimes the game can really slow down and chug 
 even with the minimum system requirments. The campaign is fun but their is no health bar giving 
 it a halo 2 feel. The multiplayer is where the fun is located, the maps are huge and it is fun 
 and you can always find a good map. This game is really strong but I prefer COD 1 as well. I recommend 
 both it just depends which you like better........ 
::::::

::::::
UserName: radx800pro
Rating: 9.4
Date: Apr 3, 2007 1:13 am PT
Review:  When I first got this game my PC wasn't up to specs to run everything maxed out. I really didn't 
 enjoy the game the way it was made to be viewed and played. Since I've completly rebuilt my PC 
 and added a 24 Monitor and played the game through again. Wow what a difference when you can crank 
 everything up on a 24 monitor. I found the Winter levels the funnest. The smoke grenades really 
 enhanced the game and made it easier to clear certain tough areas in the game. I found the AI to 
 much improved in COD 2 over prevous titles where they would just keep running up to you so you 
 could mow them down just by sitting by a door. This was greatly reduced and they search for cover 
 and flank more as well.
  
  The Sound in COD 2 is one of it's higher achievements. The guns and explosions sound very good 
 on a 5.1 surround sound system!
  
  If you didn't think the original COD's expansion pack was more of the sam and are to afraid to 
 pick up COD 2 then don't be afraid. I believe you'll love the vast improvements. Especially with 
 a good system! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: random_guy561
Rating: 9.6
Date: Apr 2, 2007 2:45 am PT
Review:  Call of Duty 2 is a remarkable 1st person shooter set in WW2. You're probaly thinking - Where have 
 I heard that before? Yes its yet another game. Its better than just a game. It is a superb game 
 that is highly recomendable to anyone. Its a pick up and play 1st person shooter, with excellent 
 graphics and sound, making the game incredibly realistic. When I first played this game, I played 
 the Pre-Release Demo, which puts you in the level El Daba, where you fight as the british against 
 the germans in a African City. The graphics are incredible, even in the lowest graphic setting, 
 which my PC can only take. It has 27 levels, ranging from D-Day to Africa to Stalingrad.
  
  Call of Duty 2 is the best PC first person shooter i've played since Medal of Honor: Allied Assault. 
 I am pleased to give this game a rating of 9.6. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sharier
Rating: 9.7
Date: Mar 31, 2007 4:55 am PT
Review:  I have played all kinds of games in the past and now I am very selective about picking games as 
 many turn out to be waste of time and money, despite high recommendations. I like FPS over adventure 
 games, but then again I don't dig all FPS or adventure games. Since my Wolfenstein days in the 
 early nineties, I have picked almost all hit FPS -- but Call of Duty beats them all (well, Medal 
 of Honour also stands by COD) . Why? Because the game was designed in a way that made me feel as 
 a part of the war. I had war comrades who ran with me and helped me and cried for my help. I had 
 war responsibilities and I had to do them right. At times I would brave showers of bullets that 
 I must overcome to save my teammates and move to the next assignment.
  The battles are intense, and I am forced to follow my orders -- just like a soldier in the war. 
 It is an opposite experience of open ended Serious Sam or the Doom or Halo genre. But this is not 
 all. In common well-made FPS, the game designers strategy often rests on fear factor. Darkness 
 is used to freak you out. Ugly monsters are designed to simulate scary feelings. At first I liked 
 that. Now I hate the same old routine. Frankly I don't find many games where you are fighting human 
 enemies in a realistic environment. This is where COD is very successful.
  This game is a must-have experience for all gamers. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: imtheman4
Rating: 9.4
Date: Mar 30, 2007 1:49 am PT
Review:  I'll split this in categories.
  
  Gameplay: Amazing!!!! Wow i had gotten this game because I sort of liked United Offensive. So i 
 siad what the hell, I bought it. I started playing and thought holy crap i almost pased this game 
 up and it is GREAT! You will still remeber walking through a pipe in rusia but end up getting shot 
 at and seeing bullet holes going past you. I also like the no health bar. If you get hurt too much 
 you will see your vision turn red and have too hide, then it regenerates.
  
  Graphics: Great graphics. Peoples faces to the smoke you throw has (if you have a good video card) 
 a great texture too it. (including guns)
  
  Sound: Great sound that does no hitch up when in a huge fire fight. it sounds like real guns and 
 every gun has its oun sound.
  
  Value: Absolutely spend your money on this game!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: icepop4who
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 24, 2007 5:01 pm PT
Review:  Although our world is not short of WWII games, this game stands out from the rest. Call of Duty 
 2 is the best PC WWII shooter game so far and it will be a long time. The visuals in CoD 2 is beautiful 
 and mesmerizing. The textures are sharp and realistic, and the gunfights just couldn't get any 
 more captivating. The characters have great dialogue and speak dynamic shouts as well, making you 
 feel right in the middle of the war. There is no gore and the blood is just there to make it interesting. 
 The sound is beautiful in CoD2 as well, especially when you turn on EAX. Bullets will whizz past 
 you while you pat yourself lucky, and deafening shells from armors will sure put a jolt in your 
 system. The environment is varies and employs weather effects and realistic lights, so that you 
 will never find yourself walking in the same place twice (unless you do it on purpose.) However, 
 the problem that annoys me is that the dead soldiers look like part of the terrain, while they 
 should be individuals beings. The missing health bar will put in some awkwardness as you can theoretically 
 take unlimited hits before you die, even though you will die quite often. I haven't got the chance 
 to try out the multiplayer, the campaigns alone will make this game worthwhile. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: haydar21101990
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 23, 2007 12:38 pm PT
Review:  If you tried Call of duty on both conselse and Pc you will find thats the best experience with 
 this game is on PC . . . this game much better than the first Call of duty . . . you have 3 different 
 campaign (Russain -British - American ) each campaign have its own mission and own weapons . . 
 . COD 2 has an amazing sounds (Real War) . . . cool graphics . . . different and cool weopons . 
 . . normal reqiurements is 512 (ram) . . . 256 VGA . . . so if u want a war game give COD 2 try 
 ON PC . . . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PSYCO109
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 21, 2007 9:30 am PT
Review:  To start off, this game LOOKS amazing. Looking at the screen shots made me drool at first. But 
 if graphics made a game good, no one would play the games of the Civilization series. I found the 
 game to be fun, and graphics helped make it seem realistic, along with the sound, but something 
 was missing. Something that made the game special. I remember walking through the levels of the 
 original Call of Duty in awe, wondering what was next. I was constantly saying Whoah , Wow! , and 
 Holy ****!!! . When I finished the game, a puddle of saliva was on my desk. But in this game it 
 all felt different. It was missing that special click that made the game special and exiting. I 
 did say Whoah a few times on the D-Day mission, but that was all. As I mentioned earlier, the sound 
 and graphics work together well. They fit as easy as cupping your hands together. You hear a massive 
 explosion, and see a mountain of dust fall down on you. Its breath taking, heart stopping, and 
 you will most likley have the police come over a few times. Other than the missing click, it is 
 a good game. Once you also get over the fact that they took away sprinting, grenade cooking, vehicles, 
 and ruined a wonderful health system. Of course, we all know that they will make an expansion pack 
 with all of these things to make some extra cash. You get used to the missing tweaks after a while, 
 but it makes the game less enjoyable. Over all however, it is still a great game. Even though they 
 took away a few things, and it dosn't feel the same, and multiplayer isn't as strong (Did I mention 
 that?) , Call of Duty 2 is a fantastic game that will pack tons of fun into your cheap computer. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dentistu
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 16, 2007 12:13 pm PT
Review:  - 3D Hardware Accelerator Card Required - 100% DirectX (R) 9.0c compatible 64 MB Hardware
  Accelerator video card and the latest drivers
  - Microsoft (R) Windows (R) 2000/XP
  - Pentium (R) 
 4 1.4GHz or AMD Athlon (tm) XP 1700+
  - 256 MB RAM (512 MB RAM recommended)
  - DirectX (R) 9.0c (included)
  - 100% DirectX (R) 9.0c compatible 16-bit sound card and latest 
 drivers.
  - 100% Windows (R) 2000/XP compatible mouse, keyboard and latest drivers
  - 4 GB of uncompressed free hard disk space (plus 600MB for Windows (R) 2000/XP swap file)
  - 
 8x Speed CD-ROM or 2x Speed DVD-ROM drive.
  SUPPORTED CHIPSETS:
  - ATI (R) Radeon (R) 8500
  - ATI (R) Radeon (R) 9000
  - ATI (R) Radeon (R) 9200
  - ATI (R) Radeon (R) 9500
  - ATI (R) Radeon (R) 
 9600
  - ATI (R) Radeon (R) 9700
  - ATI (R) Radeon (R) 9800
  - ATI (R) Radeon (R) X300
  - ATI (R) Radeon (R) X550
  - ATI (R) Radeon (R) X600
  - ATI (R) Radeon (R) X700
  - ATI (R) Radeon (R) 
 X800
  - ATI (R) Radeon (R) X850
  - NVIDIA (R) GeForce (tm) 2 Ultra
  - All NVIDIA (R) GeForce (tm) 3/Ti Series
  - All NVIDIA (R) GeForce (tm) 4/Ti Series
  - All NVIDIA (R) 
 GeForce (tm) FX Series
  - All NVIDIA (R) GeForce (tm) 6 Series
  - All NVIDIA (R) GeForce (tm) 7 Series 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ubeyou
Rating: 7.8
Date: Mar 14, 2007 4:16 pm PT
Review:  Call of Duty 2 is my second FPS games. Of course this games bring me a lots of fun. Too bad, after 
 i finished 4~6 missions, the games came bored. The graphic is totally unbeatable (expect human blood) , 
 and the sound is good to hear but if you dead the annoying sound released. If this game compare 
 with Call of Duty, I would chose Call of Duty. However, the advantage of this game is the console 
 word when you are dead. It is worth to buy if you play multi player on-line or you can end your 
 spending up by bought DOOM 3. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MatWat06
Rating: 9.8
Date: Mar 14, 2007 1:28 pm PT
Review:  Call of Duty 2 Is the Best WWII game Ever, extremely realistic game. The gameplay, graphics, sound 
 are amazing!!!!!!! The UK and the US Campaign are amazing. That good, you never get bored. The 
 difficulty levels in this game are Easy, Regular, Hardened, Veteran. In the first set of missions, 
 the player is a soldier on the Russian front, Private Vasili Ivanovich Koslov (who was first mentioned 
 by his first name in Yuri Petrenko's letters to Natasha in Call of Duty: United Offensive) . Vasili 
 joined the Red Army for revenge; much of his family was killed by German heavy artillery. The first 
 Russian mission is a training mission during the Battle of Moscow. Simulating the poor economy 
 and training of the Russians at the time, the player is forced to use potatoes as practice grenades. 
 After finishing 'training' by beating back a German assault, the player takes part in house to 
 house fighting across Stalingrad. Battles rage from December 1942 - January 1943, at a train-yard 
 and City Hall.
  
  In the second set of missions, the player plays a British soldier, Sergeant John Davis of the Seventh 
 Armoured Division. Davis is commanded by Captain Price, a popular figure from the first game. As 
 Price was in different places and was killed on board the Tirpitz in his previous outing, it is 
 to be assumed that the events in the second set of missions occur prior to the Tirpitz mission 
 of Call of Duty 1. During the advance from El-Alamein to Tunisia, and the fighting at Caen in Normandy, 
 the character must take over buildings, towns, and facilities and defend against counterattacks 
 each time. The British campaign includes much armour as they are known as the backbone of the North 
 African campaign. Throughout most of the missions, you will be covered with Crusader and Sherman 
 Tanks.
  
  An addendum to the second set of missions has the player taking on the role of a British Tank commander, 
 David Welsh. It is only one campaign (2 levels) long, but the player takes part in the 7th Armoured 
 Division's advance across Libya, harrying the retreating Germans.
  
  The next set of missions are American based. As Corporal Bill Taylor of the 2nd Ranger Battalion, 
 the player starts off by playing a part in D-Day, at the assault of Pointe du Hoc, which was located 
 four miles west of Omaha Beach. The Americans have no more than twenty feet of beach to charge 
 up before having to climb ropes up a cliff to sabotage artillery aimed at Utah Beach and Omaha 
 Beach. On arriving at the top of the cliffs, the guns are discovered to be decoys, as they were 
 during the actual war. The player then has to fight his way through German trenches and a French 
 village to find the real set of guns. The remainder of the campaign sees the player taking part 
 in the brutal fighting in Normandy and on Hill 400 under fire of German machine gun bunkers, artillery 
 and Tiger tanks. Interestingly, a Panzer II is seen in Normandy even though they were almost non-existent 
 by then.
  
  The final mission is set amongst the Americans in Crossing the Rhine crossing into Germany. In 
 the last scene, Sgt. Randall receives a field promotion and suggests to the Colonel that he should 
 promote Corporal Taylor to replace the now empty Sgt. position.
  
  The end credits depict the dramatic rescue of Capt. Price from German hands by American soldiers 
 with much better camera angles than the side-scroller adventure in the original Call of Duty credits. 
 After the credits end the words, No cows were harmed in the making of this game appear, as in the 
 original Call of Duty. This is in reference to the dead cattle lying about in the Normandy missions.
 
  
  Mission sequence Campaign 1 : Private Vasili Ivanovich Koslov (Red Army, 13th Guards Rifle Division) 
 Battle of Moscow, Dec 1941 Battle of Stalingrad, Dec 1942 Battle of Stalingrad, Feb 1943 Campaign 
 2: Sergeant John Davis (British Army, 7th Armoured Division) Second Battle of El Alamein, Oct-Nov 
 1942 Tunisia Campaign, March 1943 Battle of Normandy, June 1944 Campaign 3: Tank Commander David 
 Welsh (British Army, 7th Armoured Division) Libya, Jan 1943 Campaign 4: Corporal Bill Taylor (US 
 Army, 2nd Ranger Battalion, Dog Company) Pointe du Hoc, June 1944 Battle of Hurtgen Forest/Hill 
 400, Dec 1944 Crossing the Rhine, March 1945.
  
  I want Call of Duty 3 on the PC!!!!!!!!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thanhbun
Rating: 9.7
Date: Mar 12, 2007 10:48 pm PT
Review:  The sequel to the award-winning Call of Duty, Call of Duty 2 is powered by a proprietary new engine 
 featuring striking new visuals, advanced A. I. technology, the most realistic squad combat and explosive 
 action in new historic campaigns. * Call of Duty 2 lets players experience four individual soldier 
 stories as they overcome insurmountable odds in multiple campaigns. Players have the freedom to 
 follow each of the four storylines through for the ultimate character-driven experience, or they 
 can engage in the historic battles chronologically for quick hitting action. * Infinity Ward, creator 
 of the blockbuster, original Call of Duty, has also expanded the scope of combat to deliver a truly 
 realistic battlefield experience. Squads now have the freedom to take on a variety of mission objectives, 
 on expansive battlefields that allow for multiple paths and the ability to utilize actual combat 
 tactics like outflanking and fire and maneuver capabilities. * Call of Duty 2s new engine and 
 A. I. technology set the stage for authentic squad combat and astonishing action. Concealment can 
 be key as battlefield smoke or even deployed smoke grenades cloud visibility. Weather effects such 
 as the dusty sandstorms of North Africa and whiteout blizzard conditions of Russia, for example, 
 will keep soldiers glued to their bunkers. The team has also employed a state-of-the-art Battle 
 Chatter System that brings the action to life as squad-mates bark out context-sensitive updates 
 in real-time to players through an advanced A. I. system. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: agturboninja
Rating: 8.1
Date: Mar 11, 2007 3:10 pm PT
Review:  Call of Duty 2 doesn't capture the excitement and the rush the first Call of Duty did. WWII is 
 getting a bit old, but COD 2 with no health packs is not realistic. Well just duck behing a desk 
 and you will be alright in 5 seconds. Sure you shoot globs of Germans, but their is no excitement. 
 The Soviet campaign was amazing in Call of Duty. Nothing I experinced to FPS up to that point. 
 It was not true for COD 2. The Soviet campaign is disappointing and doesn't even compare to COD. 
 COD is a better game hands down. Sure there is some fun in COD 2 but it's doesn't last long. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AndrewKershaw
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 11, 2007 7:29 am PT
Review:  Well where do i start. WOW. this game is truely spectacular. when i got this game i didnt no what 
 to expect. but i never even imagined that a game could be this good. The single player campaing 
 fills you with a sense that you have to fight to save your country, thats how realistic it is. 
 But why i really like this game is because of the mutiplayer. I can never get bored of them. please 
 for the good of the allies get this game. if you dont then you must be an enemy. seriously though. 
 please get this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: snfonseka
Rating: 8.3
Date: Mar 10, 2007 3:49 am PT
Review:  This is a great game indeed. One of the best WW 2 games I have ever played. Developer manage to 
 keep the great game play which had in COD and actually add positive points to the game play. U 
 will feel the action of a real war while playing this game. U can't use RUN and GUN as an option 
 in this game because U have to work as a team, move as a team, fight as a team. Grenade Indicator 
 is a good thing where it shows the directions of the near by images (This is important because 
 unlike in COD, in this game U are going to die if a grenade hits U) Besides the game play sounds 
 of this game is in quality too. These sounds will make U feel that U are really on the battle field. 
 Some times your ears will fill with the sounds of bombs and shells etc. Graphics is improved compared 
 to the COD, but U cant expect top shape graphics from this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: VercettiTommyy
Rating: 9.4
Date: Mar 7, 2007 6:24 am PT
Review:  Medal of Honor. Call of Duty. Battlefield 1942. Now, Call of Duty 2. It surprised me. I was crazy about 
 it. Graphics. The best in 2005. Simply superb! No comment! Sound. Great. They really introduce you in 
 that WWII atmosphere. Great voice acting &amp; effects. Gameplay. Good. Although they are full of 
 action, not 1 second is boring,&amp; the bye-bye said to health bar &amp; medipacks is very good, it 
 has some problems. For example, in El Alamein, in the desert of Northern Africa, there is only one 
 way you can take, the other ones are blocked by fuc***g invisible walls, which are really annoying. In 
 rest, it's good, innovative &amp; fun. Tactics are necessary as well. The Omaha Beach mission is very 
 nice, so are the others from Russia, France (the other ones) &amp; Africa. Call of Duty 2 is the best 
 WWII FPS for now,&amp; a superb game that you can't miss. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spicypeanut
Rating: 9.4
Date: Mar 6, 2007 10:40 am PT
Review:  Call of Duty 2 is a all around great game. I worked for Infinity Ward and i tried to cut out a 
 lot of the bugs that i found. The game doesnt have many bugs. Honestly they couldnt/wouldnt fix 
 some of the bugs i found but enough of that. The game play is simply amazing. I play it on a high 
 end machine, with a hd moniter and surround sound. There is nothing better than feeling the bullets 
 wiz past you. I often find myself actually trying to dodge the bullets in real life lol. None the 
 less, this game does deliever, while I liked how they encorporated not only the fps style where 
 you are running around, but they give you command of a tank while you hunt down the enemys. While 
 cool in its own right, the tank levels are not the strong suit of the game. I do have to say that, 
 scaling the cliffs at point du hoc really is amazing. The game recreates the epic battles and gives 
 insight to what it must have really been like to be in the front line but fighting for what you 
 believe in. As for the difficulty, you get the option to go from easy to veteran. I hope you are 
 good cause veteran is INSANE lol. The learning curve really depends on what difficulty you select, 
 but honestly if you feel that the game is too easy, you dont have to start over. You can simply 
 go to the main menu and change your difficulty. If you are a fan of FPS or military shoot em up 
 games, you will love this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jack4571
Rating: 8.1
Date: Mar 5, 2007 8:06 pm PT
Review:  this is a awsum game the gameplay can't get better the A. I is the best i have seen in a long time 
 thay do things when you or other A. I ask and you can play on other sides the geman engish and ofcoce 
 amarcaon side the diffaront wepons are meny a all cool the levals are fun and not that hard but 
 if its to easy you can up the difacuty to the pont where it takes two shots to kill you and the 
 genades are good and don't land at you're feet and kill you which sucks in most games but not in 
 this one and then the blud that gose all over the place and it can put you in hysterics like onece 
 my bother shot a dude comeind up a fight of stares and my bother shot him an he fell down three 
 fights of steps the reel pishics made it so funey that you wouldn't bleve but i am geting sick 
 of the wrold wor two games there are no world wor one games out there fir my sanaty i think there 
 should be another world wor but whith out the thert of a bobs i nomaly like adveher games but this 
 it a good game thay dont come much better than this 
::::::

::::::
UserName: joelthegoblin
Rating: 8.7
Date: Mar 2, 2007 11:06 pm PT
Review:  Alright, the minute I turned my soldier around, I thought to myself, HOW on earth can the graphics 
 get better? As I played I noticed the game got a bit boring in somebit, the gameplay is awesome, 
 but if they could just allow you to create a character, then the gameplay is perfect. I am a bit 
 annoyed the language, I am not 15, but I still play it, and I see the MA point!
  This is not the best game i've played, but I still love it, and it's really addictive!
  (the 
 rip-off things a joke)
  I love this game and it's highly recomendable. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: the_mental_teen
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 24, 2007 7:48 pm PT
Review:  The perfect 10 will go to this because it's just as perfect as any game can be. Play as the Russians 
 and defend Stalingrad against the Nazis, play as the British as they fight the legendary Rommel 
 in North Africa, then later in France, and finally play the US 2nd Rangers through D-Day. All of 
 them have different weapons as well and don't make up what they used. Russians have the guns that 
 resist the cold, British against the heat, and Americans against the rain, sand, and mud.
  
  Enough with the useless talk, now for the MAIN reasons:
  
  1. The #1 thing that makes games 
 horrible are the AI of your teammates and enemies. In this game, it's the excellent AI that makes 
 you feel like you're not the only shooter there. The enemy will flank you if you stay in one spot 
 like a camper and your allies can actually aim and kill.
  
  2. The sound is phenominal, very simple. If you have speakers all around your computer and put 
 them to maximum volume, you WILL feel like you're in WWII yourself as each bullet fired, grenade 
 exploding, or tank moving sounds exactly like they would in real life.
  
  3. Smoke grenades are you're biggest friend because they actually work. Throw a smoke grenade in 
 front of a bunch of camping machine-gunners and they'll stop firing, giving you the time to reload, 
 get ready, and charge through the thick and realistic smoke, only to be ambushed by them, waiting 
 for you.
  
  This is a MUST have for those wanting good war games or great first-person shooters. Why? I just 
 told you why, so get your butt off the sofa, couch, or whatever and buy this game, and then sit 
 right back down!
  
  Thanks for reading my review!
  
  TMT 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Subcritical
Rating: 6.9
Date: Feb 20, 2007 4:56 pm PT
Review:  There are several issues I had with Call of Duty 2. First and foremost, the sound category has 
 some serious problems. The people that are on your side never shut up. They shout out the same 
 phrases over and over, and they constantly spout out meaningless... noise. I wish there was an option 
 to shut them off, because they take you out of the game. Fortunately, after playing for 5 or 6 
 hours, you begin to ignore them, mostly. Occasionally they filter back into your consciousness 
 and annoy you. Throughout the entire game they are constantly yelling crap. Bad development decision, 
 in my opinion.
  
  The second sound problem is the decibel level of you weapons. They are much less pronounced than 
 any other sounds in the game. This left me with the impression that I was fighting WWII with a 
 pellet gun. In fact, many times in heated battles, you can't even tell audibly if you are firing 
 your weapon because it gets drowned out by your squadmates endless obnoxious blathering, and the 
 sound of everyone elses weapons firing. When people talk over 100 feet away, it is louder than 
 when you fire your weapon. All of the sounds are very good, but the balance of volume is absolutely 
 unacceptable. I have a Soundblaster XiFi, so I know the weak weapon sound isn't hardware related.
 
  
  A third problem, which is minor, is the fact that there is no volume control for in game music. 
 Many games have the ability to adjust in game music, but a recent trend in games is to not allow 
 people to turn in game music off. I don't like in game music because it takes me out of the game 
 environment. Please, developers, let me have the option of adjustment.
  
  On to some other problems not related to sound. In this game, even on the more difficult settings, 
 you are basically a tank. You can take multiple hits. You realize that you have been hit when the 
 fringes of your screen turn red. To rebuild your health, all you have to do is duck for a second 
 behind cover, and voila, you are fully recovered. There are no usable medpacks. Toward the middle 
 of the game, you realize that you can just bulldoze your way into and through the Nazi's by rushing, 
 taking damage, ducking to regenerate, then execute the Nazi's. This killed the gameplay. There 
 was no excitement. There was no need to anticipate the enemy because all you had to do is rush 
 up to them, duck under cover for a sec, and then blast away. This results in zero immersion into 
 the gameplay.
  
  I feel this game has been consolized because the gameplay is so bad. The reticle on screen is large, 
 and I couldn't stand seeing the onscreen instructions telling me exactly where the Nazi's had just 
 thrown a grenade. If a grenade happens to blow you up, the game tells you about the obnoxious grenade 
 locating icons and what they mean. Yuck! Also, every time you walk up to a waist high wall, there 
 is an icon on screen to tell you to jump over it. Ridiculous. Additionally, the text is in an enormous 
 sized font. Furthermore, the automatic weapons are just as accurate as rifles. This just shouldn't 
 be this way. And there is so much rehash from other WWII games. I almost puked up my dinner when 
 one level in this game has you in Normandy landing on the beach. Although it is different than 
 Medal of Honor's all out beach landing, it is just too similar.
  
  The original Call of Duty was great. The levels were great. The sound was great. Your squadmates 
 for the most part were unobtrusive and fairly mute which allowed you to become immersed into the 
 game. Call of Duty 2 just went too far with the squadmate chatter, and the squadmates just get 
 into the game too much. The gameplay is poorly done because of the hit damage situation and the 
 gameplay quality seems to have been sacrificed for consolization. For health, just use health packs, 
 or do what Medal of Honor Pacific Assault did: require medics.
  
  If Infinity Ward ever makes another PC game, I hope they don't follow in the footsteps of Call 
 of Duty 2. Call of Duty was much better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hutapamo
Rating: 9.8
Date: Feb 18, 2007 4:00 am PT
Review:  Call Of Duty 2 is a very cool war game, I have played and have the game, but still I haven't finished 
 the game. I got the game from a friend of mine. When I got the game I tried it on my computer but 
 it did not work, then I tried it on another computer and it worked so that is where I had to play 
 it. I like th e way they have made the game with the burning houses and the items they give you. 
 The graphics in this game is awesome, it worked very well on the computer I played it on. This 
 game is superb and that is why I rate it a 9.8. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: black_falcon90
Rating: 8.7
Date: Feb 17, 2007 9:56 am PT
Review:  I don't know,, I just can't find anything good about multiplayer games such as battlefield 2142 
 and medal of honor,, It's just this game what took over my mind, because it's simply amazing!!!
 
  
  It's not just the great details which can run fast on slow pcs,, it's also the absolutely amazing 
 shooting and the realism of each bullet move..
  
  the gameplay is magnificent, although it's not much different from call of duty 1, but that doesn't 
 make it bad!! it's very good and real
  
  the details can be charming as u go through the well-made campains, from the water to the snow, 
 to the great hills and to the deserts.
  
  the sounds as always from ubisoft is clear and real,, nothing more
  
  the multiplayer is magnificent, 
 I wish they added some tanks and veachels to play with
  
  In the end, i must say this game is what money is made for,, coz it really worths every penny 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CarlsonAJ
Rating: 6.5
Date: Feb 7, 2007 12:28 pm PT
Review:  Again, I just don't see what others see in a game. CoD2 is just another rail shooter, with few 
 tactical options. Ok, the differentiation between the weapons is nice -- even the bolt action rifles 
 are not all the same -- properly enough, the Springfield comes off very well. But the game positively 
 encourages ahistorical approaches. Snipers way up on the front line?? Human wave after human wave 
 after human wave? And once again, the lack of deformable terrain just costs us the suspension of 
 disbelief. Are you looking for a good shooter? I recommend No One Lives Forever. A better, overooked, 
 WW2 shooter with interesting missions? Pick up Deadly Dozen. Heck, I just bailed half through the 
 mission right after Pointe du Hoc. Just didn't care. Not anymore. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kraeg
Rating: 8.8
Date: Feb 6, 2007 11:10 am PT
Review:  This is a game that will grip you from the very first level. It throws you in at the deep end from 
 the start so you've got to learn quickly, and once you do you're still vulnerable. No matter how 
 good you are you'll still spend most of the game cowering behind trees. If you don't use every 
 piece of cover you are certain to die very quickly. The excellent graphics and sound bring the 
 game to life and almost every moment of gameplay is a joy. Occasionally the levels get a little 
 repetitive but after just one boring level comes another two of three of genius. This is definitely 
 a worthy investment for anyone. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bigruckus45
Rating: 7.9
Date: Jan 28, 2007 7:33 pm PT
Review:  The Good
  
  COD2's single player campaign is great, worth playing again. The graphics and sound are awesome, 
 if you have a good gpu card. The Bad
  
  Multiplayer is where COD2 is lacking. In Team Death Match mode, you will spawn just about anywhere. 
 Sometimes you won't even have time to move before getting hit. You'll just spawn in front the enemy. 
 On rare occasions you will spawn ON TOP OF a grenade. Because spawn locations are semingly random, 
 camping is next to impossible. However, during a 30 minute match there might be a few times when 
 both teams start spawning at locations near each other causing a huge fire fight.
  
  Summary
  
  Play through the single player campaign. Spend a little time in multiplayer. Play 
 single player again. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DanGoomba
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jan 28, 2007 9:59 am PT
Review:  Call of Duty 2 is yet another World War 2 game where you shoot Nazis, it's been done before, it's 
 been done better, but yet I still can't stop playing it. It's very similar to the original CoD, 
 but with some small changes. There's the new grenade indicator, which tells you where enemy grenades 
 are coming from, a very handy (though unrealistic) system. The new health system has no health bar, 
 when you get hit the screen flashes red, but there's no real challenge to not dying. On easier 
 modes you pretty much have to stand directly in front of a German machine gun for several seconds 
 to die, or sit on a grenade. I really preferred the health packs of the original CoD. The new smoke 
 grenades are useful at times, but as often as not mine ended up concealing a German counterattack, 
 which made for very fun, tense moments as Germans loomed out of the smoke to fight hand-to-hand.
 
  
  The game starts out great with the Russian campaign, stalking Nazis through burnt-out buildings, 
 fighting back human wave assaults, it's all great stuff. Same with the British campaign, fighting 
 across the desert, commandeering a tank... but by the American campaign it seems like the game loses 
 steam. Virtually every mission consists of: go into village, clear out Nazis house by house, then 
 just as things seem most dire, the reinforcements arrive. It really slows the game down.
  
  Graphically the game is fine, good-looking effects and enviroments but nothing astounding. Sound 
 is excellent, the battle effects are realistic. The best part is the chatter of your teamates, 
 who actually say useful things regarding enemy's position and so forth, and the angry screams and 
 death cries of Germans ratchet up the intensity.
  
  The enemy A. I. is overall very impressive, they know how to find good cover, and lay down covering 
 fire while advancing, and just where to throw grenades. My guys were pretty good too, fairly competent, 
 but sometimes they would inexplicably stay put and force me to charge ahead. I didn't particuaraly 
 like how both sides' troops seemed like useless cannon fodder, when someone on either side dies, 
 another identical minion quietly takes their place. I would have like to have seen consequences 
 if I let my A. I. friends take all the brunt of the fighting, and then not have any friends left 
 to help me, but their supply is always infinite.
  
  But despite all my complaints, the point is that is game is fun. Buy it, shoot things for about 
 10 hours, just try not to think too much. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: D_M_172007
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jan 24, 2007 8:16 am PT
Review:  dont you just love a game that you feel that your in it
  ,well:
  call of duty 2 is a game that way in it i feel like im in that war its so impressive
  
  graphics 
 great sounds awsome you feel your in a real war
  the gameplay is just wonderful all the missons you get the action
  value good
  
  call of 
 duty 1 was a great game a revolutianary game to be specific and this game adds a lot to the game 
 new weapons tanks wars and a lot more
  
  i advise you to try it and trust me you wont be disappointed :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fistblade251
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 21, 2007 2:53 pm PT
Review:  Call of Duty 2 is pretty much the best WWII shooter to date. Its realistic ties with the war is 
 phenomenal, and basically all the aspects of the game are excellent. Trust me, within your first 
 few levels of this game, you'll already be hooked-up in the action-packed single-player AND multiplayer 
 experience. This game is very fun and enjoyable. I'd recommend this game to anyone. If you want 
 a game that is filed with intense battles, immersive combat, WWII realism, and loaded with good 
 graphics, sound, etc., then get Call of Duty 2.
  
  P. S. sorry for the run-ons. I have to get in a least 100 words to submit this review. Thanks! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: okassar
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jan 19, 2007 4:45 pm PT
Review:  The combat is really good but the story line is, you know, just like any other World War 2 game's. I 
 have to say though, you're going to be challenged (if you put it at atleast medium difficulty) . The 
 replay value is pretty good, I played through the game 3 times. It's not a to-die-for game though, even 
 though it was a good seller. But overall, the combat makes up for the glitches and repetitive story 
 line. I enjoyed the game. A nice thing is that you don't really need to pick up health, you heal if 
 you avoid getting shot. Pretty obvious when you're about to die. If you haven't played the game yet, I 
 would say it's worth $30 at the most in my terms. The intense moments where you get outnumbered, out 
 maneuvered, really get you thinking. On the hardest difficulty, you'll be jumping around every 3 minutes 
 near-death. The checkpoint system is nice, the graphics are pretty good (for the time it was made 
 in) . It's not innovative though, like the Halo series and Gears of War. Makes for alot of past times 
 and is really historically accurate. The team even went out in Europe and marked the locations of 
 where the very houses in the game would be. The sound is amazing, control is nice overall, AI is great. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: harleyindanet
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jan 16, 2007 1:15 am PT
Review:  When i first borrowed Call of duty last year, i thought it was a awesome game with many decent 
 characters, levels, uniforms, guns which represented the exact era in which they were in commission. 
 The gameplay was also pretty spot on with the dialogue and speech near perfect leaving me really 
 with the graphics. Activision have always bein known for having good graphics but u can really 
 c that they put time into the whole game and its just excellent look at.
  
  Now combine all that and times it by 2 and u have call of duty 2
  
  Not only has the game's 
 name bein multyplied but the whole becomes twice as good as it predecessor.
  I recemend Call Of Duty 2 as a good world war 2 game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tomdude747
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jan 15, 2007 9:50 pm PT
Review:  Not to my surprise, the Call of Duty 2 experience blew me away just as it did in 2003 with Call 
 of Duty, perhaps even more. With stunning graphics, amazing sound. superb game play and a willingness 
 to prevail over Nazi Germany, the developers at Activision out did themselves this time. In Call 
 of Duty 2 you take the roll of soldiers of three Allie country's in the war against Nazi Germany: 
 Russian, British and American. Starting out in Russia you learn the ropes of combat in a very interesting 
 way, while in combat!!!! You fight back the Nazis in Moscow and Stalingrad then taking on the roll 
 of the British desert rats in the North Africa and also command a tank to fight against the enemy 
 in his panzer's. Then you hit the beaches with the United States Rangers at Point Du Hoc and through 
 Normandy. This has to be the far most realistic world war 2 first person shooter game I have ever 
 played. Call Of Duty 2 is also a great multi player game which has consumed many hour from me. 
 If you like WW2 FPS's then don't skip this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Black_Ice11
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jan 9, 2007 9:26 am PT
Review:  Call of Duty 2 is an overall good game. The graphics on the game are great. The way the game plays 
 is however sometimes frustrating. The storyline is decent, it's about the same as any other WW2 
 shooter. Can't really get too creative or take something out of the war that most people don't 
 know about already. Describing probably one of the best features of the game is the remarkable 
 improvement of the graphics Activision did to the game. Lots more details, the objects look well 
 near each other, no major graphical glitches except for the occasional seeing the gun pointing 
 through the wall. Nothing is perfect so it's understandable. Activision did a really good job on 
 making a nice colorful environment with plenty of vehicles and buildings to take cover and make 
 the online gaming more interesting and intense.
  
  The storyline in CoD2 is rather simple and plain. Just like the rest of the shooters. Don't expect 
 anything big with story and character development in this game. However it is entertaining and 
 interesting to play over a few times after beating the game.
  
  Activision did a great job on the controlling and gameplay in CoD2. The controls are responsive 
 and aren't too complicated to setup and figure out which ones to use. The game allows for crouching, 
 laying down, and standing up just like the first one. The aiming in the second game seems to be 
 improved greatly too. The calibration of the game is fairly on target. Your character moves smoothly 
 most of the time except for the occasional level glitches that you will run into once in awhile.
 
  
  I really recommend this game if you enjoy competitive online gameplay, good realistic graphics, 
 and full control of what you do with your shooter in the game. Hardcore and regular shooter gamers 
 will not be disappointed in the game's capabilities and features, especially with the online multiplaying 
 game CoD2 has to offer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Crispy12A
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jan 6, 2007 7:24 pm PT
Review:  I first saw Call of Duty 2 as a demo on the xbox 360 in the shops and thought it was good, After 
 I bought it for the PC i realised it didnt look good... It looked fippin' amazing. Before Call of 
 Duty 2, I played Medal of Honour and thoroughly enjoyed it however this really is something else. 
 Unlike MOH in COD2 you really get the feeling of being in a war. Some of the levels are just crazy. 
 Bullets flying from every direction. You dont get the chance to stop and think. This is especially 
 the case if you play on the Veteran Setting. The graphics are really stunning however you must 
 have a quick computer, this is not unlike most games now thought so most people should be prepared 
 for this. The sounds are another area where the game excels, In the few moments when gunfire does 
 die down you can still hear gunshots going off in the distance. The vocabulary sometimes gets a 
 little repetative but on the whole is ok. I would definatly recommend purchasing some wireless 
 headphones for COD2 because the sound really does add to the game. The enemy AI is on the whole 
 very good. The enemy will always try to out flank you and dont seem to be particularly 'stupid'. 
 They will use tables and boxes for cover and replace dead soilders on the MG42's which seem to 
 be your biggest challenge through out the game. Pros: Frantic action, No more health bar, Sound, 
 Blowing helmets of the enemy's heads.
  
  Cons: It hurts when the enemy clubs you round the head with a rifle, Very embarrassing when your 
 showing off to a mate by chucking grenades and suddenly the German throws it back at you!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: aramoe
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jan 3, 2007 12:09 pm PT
Review:  Call Of Duty 2 is a fun game but the difficulty is really too easy but veteran is almost the best 
 one of them all. The graphics are pretty good also. The AI can be real stupid at some times and 
 sometimes they can act kinda right. I like the multiplayer a lot though. It can be hard at that 
 and that is what makes it really fun. If you want a game this game might be a runner up for the 
 video games you may want to get. I am going to give this game a 9.9 and i don't agree with gamespot's 
 score at all. Hope you guys will agree with me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Doom_HellKnight
Rating: 10
Date: May 6, 2007 11:17 am PT
Review:  Call of Duty 2 is quite simply the best World War 2 Shooter I've ever played, and I've been through 
 the lot.... Call of Duty, Medal of Honor, Brothers in Arms, Hidden and Dangerous, Battlefield 1942, 
 Wolfenstein and probably every other WW2 FPS released so far.
  
  I cannot play Call of Duty 2 on DirectX9 yet, however on DirectX7 mode it still looks great, I've 
 rated the graphics as 10 because I've switched to DX9 mode just to have a look and from what I've 
 seen it looks great. The Uniforms on all sides look about right for the time. Weapons look very 
 authentic and realistic, although for some reason the bren is being held by the carrying handle, 
 which was used for carrying the gun when you're not firing it but that is minor. Tanks and Vehicles 
 look fantastic and authentic.
  
  The Sound is probably the best part of Call of Duty 2. All of the weapons sound perfect, and pretty 
 much right to what they sound (ed) like in reality.
  The MG42 makes it's distinct, terrifying 'paper-tearing' sound when it fires, German soldiers speak 
 German and the new Battle-Chatter system works great, even if it does tend to get a little repetitive. 
 Russian soldiers speak English although it's not worth knocking a point off for that.
  
  Gameplay is great too, this is one of the most intense games I've ever played. Playing alongside 
 a squad can really make a difference in World War 2 shooters, it seems like you're a small part 
 of a much bigger conflict. I also enjoy the variety of environments, from the tundra of Russia 
 to the Desert of Africa to the grassy areas and towns of Normandy. (Not sure if this belongs in 
 Graphics but i put it here anyway.) Playing as Three distict sides was great too, I love playing 
 as the Russians and the British, two sides that are never really portrayed in WW2 games, Kudos 
 Infinity Ward.
  
  There are a couple of things against the Authenticity that I would like to mention, as a World 
 War 2 buff but this wont count against the score at all.
  First off, Ammo. Every gun in the game has a different ammo pool, which of-course is incorrect. 
 For example an Enfield and a Scoped Enfield should of-course have the same ammo pool, however this 
 isnt the case in-game. Also, why is there a Panzer II tank in Normandy? In 1944 that tank had practically 
 disappeared. There is also an MG42 in Moscow '41, the MG42 of-course didnt appear until '42.
  
  Overall, this is a fantastic World War 2 game, and a Fantastic First Person Shooter. An excellent 
 Single Player Campaign tied together with brilliant and fun multiplayer come together to form one 
 of the best First Person Shooters money can buy.
  If you are a shooter fan as well as/or a World War 2 Fanatic you should not be without this game... 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gedus
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 2, 2007 2:05 pm PT
Review:  Just a great game, Ladies and Gentlemen. Everything here is absolutely great. I've completed it 
 on veteran difficulty and it was completely challenging - that means it was great.
  
  Game-play is really interesting and you can feel it at the first moment you started to play Call 
 of Duty 2. Every campaign has it's own singularities which makes this game so special. Enemies 
 are clever enough to shoot you at the first moment they see you, what makes you put more brainpower 
 how to shoot them first and that's what I really enjoyed! - That's happening during veteran difficulty 
 but you can always change it ; ) Graphics are absolutely great too. No comment here.
  
  Sounds. While playing Call of Duty 2 You will feel like a real soldier fighting out there, because 
 all sounds really great and makes a nice atmosphere.
  
  Try it and You will see! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lbomagic
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 2, 2007 7:05 am PT
Review:  If your a Big call of duty fan and wish to update your collection then this is the game to buy. 
 Although you can buy this as well on the X360, I think the only way to buy and play this is on 
 the PC.
  
  The graphics, the action, the story..... Top Notch,
  
  Like any call of duty Game you have to play 3 different Campaigns which involve three different 
 Forces Russian, British and American, all with action packed missions for fighting against the 
 Nazi Regime.
  you can play Single player as many times as you like, and I would suggest changing difficulty levels 
 as they become more challenging. But when you're done with that you can always go onto Multiplayer!!!!
 
  
  Multiplayer + COD2 = OMG. this is also the greatest multiplayer game in the world, yes if your 
 connection is slow, it can cause problems (say Dial-up) . but the faster broadband you have, the 
 more enjoyable the Multiplayer game will be.
  
  If you like First-Person Shoot'em up games, then this is one that should of been on your Christmas, 
 Don't miss out on this boys and girls, or you will regret it, I can assure you.
  
  Just make sure your computer has all the necessary system requirements, go onto multiplayer, and 
 Ill see you on there sometime. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Xeroman9999
Rating: 8.9
Date: Dec 31, 2006 6:20 am PT
Review:  If you liked the original Call of Duty, then you're sure to enjoy the sequel, which stays true 
 to the strengths of its predecessor.
  The Good: Excellent presentation; aggressive enemy ai; makes you really feel like a small part 
 of a bigger war; varied campaign; fun multiplayer.
  The Bad: Performance can chug at times.
  
  When the original Call of Duty was released a few 
 years ago, it made an impact both on critics and on consumers, even in the already-crowded WWII 
 shooter genre. Call of Duty's visceral action struck a chord with PC shooter fans, thanks to a 
 well-designed campaign, enjoyable multiplayer, and outstanding sound effects. If you liked those 
 aspects of the original, then you're sure to enjoy the sequel, which stays true to the strengths 
 of its predecessor, while enhancing the sense that you're just one soldier in the midst of a massive 
 war machine. It doesn't really break any new ground, but the game nails the core aspects of first-person-shooter 
 gameplay so well that it doesn't need to. this game rocks but i hate some parts like no recoil, auto 
 health recovery and many multiplayer bugs 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Einhanderkiller
Rating: 8.1
Date: Dec 29, 2006 5:57 pm PT
Review:  Call of Duty 2 brings another installment to the Call of Duty franchise, and it delivers. While 
 it doesn't bring much new to the table, it still is an intense and visceral shooter that'll leave 
 you wanting more. Call of Duty 2 leaves its multi-campaign system introduced in the original intact; 
 this system essentially lets you play the game from any of three perspectives: the Russians, the 
 British, or the Americans, although the latter two are required to be unlocked first. To unlock 
 a campaign, a certain number of missions from a certain campaign must be completed, e. g., two missions 
 must be completed in the Russian campaign to unlock the British campaign. These vignettes, if you 
 will, aren't particularly strong at telling a story, but that was never one of Call of Duty's strengths. 
 The game starts off with the Russian campaign, set in the snowy motherland. You'll crawl through 
 pipelines and restore power lines, among other objectives, as you fend off hoards of enemies. The 
 next campaign has you playing as the British in the deserts of Africa and the city of Caen, once 
 again fending off hoards of enemies, although one mission is purely tank based. The tank combat 
 isn't necessarily all that interesting, though, but it does help break up the on foot action. The 
 final campaign -- the American -- is certainly the most intense. Pointe du Hoc has you climbing up 
 a cliff as Axis forces shoot those below; in Hill 400, you and your buddies must climb a hill as 
 you are assaulted with mortars, then defend the hill as Tiger tanks and an army assaults your location. 
 The final mission is set near the Rhine river and ends rather anti-climatically. I won't spoil 
 it, but it doesn't end with as big a bang as the original did.
  
  The graphics in Call of Duty 2, especially on a high-end machine (Core 2 Duo 3.0 GHz; 7900GT 512mb; 
 2048MB DDR2 RAM) are phenomenal (game was played on the highest settings possible) . Everything 
 from the soldiers to the buildings and even the shell casings are incredibly detailed, although 
 this astounding visual quality takes quite a large performance hit on the machine. The Russian 
 and most of British campaigns were fairly forgiving on the computer -- I was able to maintain 60 
 FPS and above -- but the American campaign, especially with its dense foliage, brought my computer 
 to its knees. The frame rate sometimes dipped as low as 10 to 20 FPS. However, for the most part, 
 the game was still playable. The only gripe I have about the graphics are the animations. They 
 just seem a little rough. They could definitely be improved, though pretty much everything else 
 looks gorgeous.
  
  Sound is where Call of Duty 2 really shines. The team behind the sound did an incredible job with 
 this game. The patter of rain on the rooftop can be heard in a rainstorm, the cracks of gunshots 
 are audible distance, and the approach of mortars can be heard mere milliseconds before they crush 
 the ground, emitting a thunderous bang. The roar of the MG42s and crack of the M1 Garand set the 
 tone of war perfectly. Call of Duty 2's orchestral music also fits nicely within the game. Perhaps 
 the most impressive part of the game, audio-wise, is during the Battle of Hill 400 campaign, where 
 artillery shells pound the ground, sending dirt pluming upwards into the air and then descending 
 like a hail of, er, dirt, while grenades explode all around your vicinity, all the while tanks 
 crush through the barricades, crunching the metal and wood. This game is truly a game to be heard.
 
  
  The gameplay is Call of Duty 2 is fairly standard run and gun, but that's not necessarily a bad 
 thing. Call of Duty 2's gunplay is satisfying and fun, if a little repetitive. There's not much 
 that has been done to Call of Duty 2's gameplay, save the new health system (health automatically 
 recharges meaning that there is no health bar) and smoke grenades, leaving the game true to its 
 roots, but the game is still tons of fun. Call of Duty 2 does what it's done before better than 
 ever. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wolfik41
Rating: 8.8
Date: Dec 25, 2006 3:56 am PT
Review:  The second Cod is a great and exciting experience if you enjoyed the first part. The game takes 
 you to a couple of new locations, I really liked the desert missions, but there are more which 
 don't stand behind. I was surpirsed with the lenght of the game, positively of course :) . The graphics 
 seem to be improved a little bit to the 1st cod. In general it's a good game, totally worth playing. 
 Good sides :
  
  + nice graphics
  + good AI + long
  + great sound
  + the priceless WWII climate Bad sides : - a bit boring in some parts 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sirshredder
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 24, 2006 3:09 pm PT
Review:  More of the same FPS action done right. The production values are excellent, sound is incredible, 
 and the missions are fun and have some variation. Your AI teammates will follow you around and 
 sometimes it is wise to wait for them to catch up. They provide some mission hints through their 
 chatter, but mostly it is all you. My only complaints are that weapons seem a little too accurate 
 (you can make a headshot with a tommy gun at 50 yards, and endless enemy spawns until you charge 
 in and take positions. I played the game on hardened difficulty level which seemed about right. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: playdennis
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 25, 2007 9:39 pm PT
Review:  I've played a lot of games, but this one is just... AMAZING. I've finshed it a lot of times, but 
 I'm still going back to it and doing it again, and multiplayer... is probable the best...
  
  Singleplayer: Really fun! Like i said, I've finshed it a lot of times. But that's what always 
 happens: After I finsh it, I play a lot of Multiplayer, then when i'm tired of it I just uninstall 
 the game, then after a month or two I'm going back to it and do the same thing! The campaign is 
 pretty long, becouse there is about 3 parts of every mission, and there is about 12 long missions. 
 You get to play first: USSR, then the British, and then USA. the only thing thats sucks is that 
 you can't choose which country you want to play first. So, I will still give it a 9/10.
  
  Multiplayer: Really good! It's hard, but very fun!!! The best mode in my opinion is Team Deathmatch 
 (I haven't tried all of them) because I always like deathmatch / team deathmatch. There is enough 
 maps, and you would remember only the basics of them, becouse they are pretty big! I would give 
 it a... 8 or 9 because it gets boring after a while of playing (Note: this is my first Review :D) 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GenTom
Rating: 8.7
Date: Dec 24, 2006 1:59 am PT
Review:  Many of the key improvements and evolutions of Call Of Duty 2 over the original have been well 
 charted already. We'll come to them shortly. But let's throw convention out of the window and start 
 with something smaller, yet equally significant. For Call Of Duty 2 has done away with two things; 
 quick save and a health bar.
  
  Let's stop and consider that for a second. When you look at the recently-released - and highly 
 recommended - F. E. A. R., you have a game that actively encourages you to regularly hit F5 to save 
 your progress, while liberally slapping first-aid kits all around the map. It's as if the designers 
 realise you're going to die regularly and will therefore need patching up a lot.
  
  Call Of Duty 2 makes no such concessions. Here, the game chooses when it saves your progress, and 
 instead of getting you to pay attention to a bar at the bottom of the screen, to understand your 
 health you need to pay attention to visual indicators on screen.
  
  Get wheezy and bleary-eyed and you know you're in trouble. Yet you replenish your health simply 
 by stepping out of the firing line for a little while, and it works like a charm. Obviously on 
 the highest difficulty levels it's not quite so simple, but as a design choice, this actually makes 
 you focus more on the on-screen action and, crucially, on staying alive.
  
  For Call Of Duty 2 is an immense experience, and one that leaves you at times feeling suitably 
 mentally assaulted. Played across four different campaigns - over which you have an element of 
 choice about the order you tackle them - the game is primarily a first-person shooter, with occasional 
 areas when vehicles are called into action.
  
  Its missions cover intense, all-action firefights, huge set-piece face-offs between the two sides 
 and quieter, yet incredibly tense, tasks. And doing what it does best, the game produces sequences 
 and cinematic set-pieces that are absolutely staggering.
  
  Unmatched by any game in its genre, Call Of Duty 2 has other tricks up its sleeve as well. For 
 instance, the soldiers around you will constantly talk, bark orders and shout, sometimes giving 
 meaningful and useful information.
  
  Then there's the new smoke mechanics. Lots of spent grenades and munitions produce smoke, and the 
 handy smoke grenades do too. That smoke then provides an excellent cover for sneaking around the 
 enemy, and consequently adds a valid and exciting new tactical angle. And when you factor in the 
 option of tackling missions in different ways, it adds up to some significant enhancements all 
 round.
  
  But then there are a couple of worrying steps backward. The new health system may not, for instance, 
 be to everyone's taste, but there are changes on top of that which prove more controversial. First, 
 on the compass that acts as a radar of sorts to your objective, the position of enemies is marked 
 once you've spotted them. That straight away removes part of the game's challenge, especially in 
 the previously-tense situations where you try to pinpoint a rooftop sniper.
  
  Second, you're now warned when a grenade has been thrown in your direction to give you time to 
 escape. But why? Did anyone complain about the way grenades were used in previous Call Of Duty 
 games? What was wrong with the old system of having to be completely aware of what's going on? 
 In online games in particular, this is an unwelcome dumbing down and a move that simply wasn't 
 necessary.
  
  Which all makes Call Of Duty 2 an oddity of a sequel. The cinematic sequences are better than ever 
 and the sheer immersive majesty of the game on top form is unrivalled. But strange compromises 
 have somewhat tainted the experience for no apparent reason, and have the ultimate effect of pulling 
 an excellent game back down to the 'very good' category. It's still worth playing: it just could, 
 with simple adjustments, have been that bit better.
  
  At times this is a terrific sequel, albeit brought back down to earth a little by some odd gameplay 
 decisions.
  
  Highly Recommended! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ronygreat
Rating: 8.8
Date: Dec 21, 2006 11:02 pm PT
Review:  This is definitely World War 2. The environment makes it clear that World War 2 was a time of pure 
 hell. Sound: Sound is awesome. In Single Player, the people talk realistic. The other great part 
 to the game is that you can play it online, which is also a boatload of fun. there are serveral 
 gametypes, includeing search and destroy, deathmatch, team deathmatch, and capture the flag. all 
 of which are alot of fun. there is also a wide assortment of guns in the game. not alot of guns 
 but a good amount of variety and teams. Graphics. looks great, maybe not Farcry or HL2 but it is 
 still a non dated graphical presintation. gameplay. Well the game my add nothing new to the shooter 
 catagory but the firefight rage with granads and you'll watch you're enemy's scarmble if you throw 
 a grnade. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: prince_elad_69
Rating: 8.8
Date: Dec 20, 2006 10:31 am PT
Review:  this game is not a new game for the fans of the FPS games all over the world this game has amazing 
 graphics some good AI and a highly addictive gameplay take all of this and put it in call of duty 
 2 and you have your new fav FPS game
  
  GRAPHICS: the graphics in this game looks really good and the explosions in this game are just playing 
 fun to watch and any time you will explode somethind you will fill a satisfaction inside
  
  SOUND: great sound that comes perfectly in all the mayham that serrounds you in the battlefield 
 and with the right set of speakers you will fill like you are inside the game and that is an experiance 
 you will necer forget
  
  GAMEPLAY: the great gameplay that call of duty 2 offers is amazing never gets repedetive in one 
 mission you need to plant bobmbs insyde the axis base and then you need to get to safty and see 
 the building go up in flames... but if you alredy played the game you know that there is no fire 
 when the building explodes just alot of dirt fliying all over the battlefield and in another mission 
 you control a really big... cannon that you can shoot to the axis and blow them like little pieces 
 of flesh and bouns.. (i dident have something better to say) ... anyway this is a great FPS game 
 that every fan of the series will fall inlove with from the first to the last stage in the game... and 
 it might be your new favorate game
  
  BYE BYE 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AccessApproved
Rating: 9.6
Date: Dec 19, 2006 9:30 pm PT
Review:  I got Call of Duty 2 two days from now (12/19/06) . It was selling $20.00 CAN in Future Shop and 
 decided to buy it. From that day, I NEVER regretted that day. CoD2 has deep effort put into it. 
 I really liked the Single Player missions. Every mission you do, it's different. For instance, 
 on the British campaign, you can throw artillery on the swarm of Nazi's coming at you. I mean, 
 it's not always shooting the Nazi's with your gun all the time, it has substance by presenting 
 the player with MORE things to do. In addition, the multiplayer of CoD2 is very well made. The 
 filters seem accurate by separating mods and unmodded servers; it shows me that the game has good 
 modding opportunities. Strong and big community to go along with that. Onto the elements of games:
 
  
  Gameplay: Wonderful. It gives the player to use more things other than their gun (single player 
 mostly) . For example, the player can drive a tank in a mission, throw artillery in another, etc. 
 When you first start the game in Single Player, the player might think that they would not know 
 what to do. On the other hand, CoD2 presents a clear, focussed presentation to lead you to the 
 basics. In addition, when learning the basics, a random fight begins at the beginning! This really 
 made it interesting. Graphics: If you just look at that environment, you can see how much effort 
 InfinityWard has put into the game. When something explodes, it leaves a big hole, or mark on the 
 ground. The characters are clearly made. This is definitely World War 2. The environment makes 
 it clear that World War 2 was a time of pure hell. Sound: Sound is awesome. In Single Player, the 
 people talk realistic. I don't think there is a moment of peace in CoD2. Everywhere they are yelling 
 and almost exploding their lungs out. The gunfires I really like. The MP40 for example has the 
 realistic sound it had during the real World War. Value: This is all your money's worth. Please 
 don't say to yourself Probably the writer of this is trying to make the game LOOK good . No, please, 
 I am telling the hard truth here. CoD2 is one of the most awesome games I have played on the PC. 
 Guaranteed. Thanks for reading and if you don't have CoD2 for PC yet, go get 'em! I got mine for 
 $20! Absolutely great game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Seventh_reason
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 19, 2006 7:26 pm PT
Review:  Call of duty - the best selling game of the year returns with its sequel - Call of Duty 2. With 
 outstanding graphics, and incredible gameplay you could be playing this game for hours on end, 
 or days at a time.
  
  Call of duty 2 made other World War games look mediocre - even that. The realism that you can 'feel' 
 when you play the game really makes you want to fight for stalingrad - pushing back the ever-lasting 
 germans with your rifles and machine guns. The game takes you on 3 campaigns - each covering different 
 parts of the war, which includes deserts, muddy hills and snowy, blown up cities. Good points
 
  Realism:- The realism of this game makes it stand out on any machine, even if you have 256MB RAM, 
 with a 64MB graphics card - you can still enjoy this game. Sounds:- Hearing soldiers crying in 
 pain and screaming in fear - that last bullet whizzing past your head until you unleash heavy fire 
 upon youe enemy. The explosions and the Mounted machine guns churning their ammo at you - your 
 footsteps, your breathing. What more can i say?
  Gameplay:- Great fun for all ages (wouldnt go any lower than 13 yrs)
  Learning cruve:- 5 minutes. 
 I mean, whats to learn? Shoot the guys who dont wear the same uniform as you?
  
  Bad points
  Frustrating:- If you can never get to cover intime - or you die and you dont see 
 your killer, it drives you mad.
  Multiplayer:- The multiplayer games are fun and addictive, but they just give you the same as anyother 
 multiplayer FPS - deathmatches etc. Their is no variety. Again people are forming clans and there 
 is a lot of offensive people - espeically when they die. And the overuse of the word noob.
  
  Over all - the single player campaign is worth playing through over and over, and the multiplayer 
 is good fun for brief moments at a time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Marinesniper70
Rating: 8.9
Date: Dec 12, 2006 7:05 pm PT
Review:  I remember seeing a preview for Call of Duty in a magizine, I was blown away by the graphics and 
 how different this game was from other WW2 shooters of that time. So when I heard that there was 
 to be a sequle to it I was pumped. When I finaly bought CoD2 I couldent wait to play through the 
 single player game. I must admit, I was somewhat let down, the only levels that appealed to me 
 were the US beach landing and a couple of the british levels. Other than that I felt that it was 
 a weak singleplayer game. On the other hand, the multiplayer is just as good if not better than 
 it was in Call of Duty. It is hard to find a multiplayer shooter that is as good as CoD2. Overall 
 this game is one of my all time favorites and I will be playing it for years to come. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: commandercow011
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 10, 2006 9:35 pm PT
Review:  This is the best WWII game that i have ever played. it is fun but i did blaze through the campaign, 
 in regular, in about 10 hrs. it was a boatload of fun though. the other great part to the game 
 is that you can play it online, which is also a boatload of fun. there are serveral gametypes, 
 includeing search and destroy, deathmatch, team deathmatch, and capture the flag. all of which 
 are alot of fun. there is also a wide assortment of guns in the game. not alot of guns but a good 
 amount of variety and teams. unlike counter strikes 2 teams Call of Duty has 3 teams, in which 
 each has their own set of guns. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stunnaplaya
Rating: 8.8
Date: Dec 10, 2006 8:00 am PT
Review:  I'm not usually a war game fan but i must say this is one heck of a game. The graphics are awsome, 
 and the combat is exhilerating. The different weapon sets for each nationality also add a nice 
 touch. COD2 pushes past many other war games because the campaign takes you through different countries 
 fighting. It differs the weapon set and backgrounds. Its a little harder to spot people in white 
 coats out in the snow then it is to spot a man in green in the middle of a brown city. I't gives 
 the game a different feel each section of the campaign. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Percypoo
Rating: 9.1
Date: Dec 9, 2006 7:48 am PT
Review:  3 years ago, COD hit the shelves and impressed gamers and critics. Never before had an FPS had 
 such intense and exciting action. The Medal of Honor series finally had a worthy competitor. The 
 legendry series continued with COD United offensive, expansion for the original COD pc game, followed 
 by COD finest hour for game consoles, then came COD Big Red One for consoles and finally, Call 
 of Duty 2 for pc and Xbox360. This game has stretched the limits.
  
  Much like in the original COD, this game puts you in the shoes of several soldiers of different 
 nations, that you play as in 3 campaigns in chronological order for the most part. After completing 
 part of 1 campaign you can ulock the next. The campaigns are in this order. Thier is the Russian 
 campaign set in Moscow and Stalingrad, the British Campaign, set mostly in North Africa, and, ( 
 you guessed it) , an american campaign that takes you through the battles in Normandy, inluding 
 the D-day battle of Point Du Hoc, where the American forces must land on the beach and scale a 
 huge cliff, whilst being bombarded by German grenades and artillery and take out the German guns 
 beyond the top of the cliff. This campaign also includes battles in Germany in 1945, such as taking 
 and holding the heavily fortified Hill 400 from the Germans. I have picked out these two missions 
 as the most intense in the game, but there are many other missions that come close.
  
  The shooting mechanics are similar to the first game but are tweaked to be more convinient. The 
 health system is also changed so that you dont have to hunt for health packs anymore, If you are 
 hit, your vision will go increasingly red. When you have one more hit unitl you die, the game will 
 prompt you to take cover and wait for the red to dissapear and your health to come back. The biggest 
 gameplay difference to the first COD is that you can't save whenever and wherever you want. COD 
 2' new checkpoint save system is harsher than the first game and makes up for the more forgiving 
 health system. Ok, enough differences, the core gameplay is otherwise the same but better intense 
 action that players of the first game would expect to find here. You will use all your firepower 
 to kill hordes of Germans, and engage in a tense car chase. The best thing is that the combat is 
 believable.
  
  Atmosphericly, COD 2 is amazing. Gunfire and explosians sound crisp and can compare with an action 
 movie. Your brothers in arms will shout suff like, (German infantry, behind the sand bags.) Ambient 
 sounds are plentiful. You will constantly hear the crack of distant gunfire and the pitter patter 
 of raindrops. You will here planes in zooming through the air and bursts of artillery. The environments, 
 like wartorn towns, scrubby deserts and the frozen streets of Stalingrad look fantastic.
  
  Along with good sound effects, the game has brilliant music that kicks in at key moments, adding 
 vastly to the drama of the battles. Soundwise, COD 2 has more than what it takes.
  
  The game's graphics are superb, textures for environments, soldiers and veichles are beautifuly 
 detailed. They beat Medal of Honor hands down.
  
  I will mention multilplayer when I get an internet connection for my only computer that can run 
 this game.
  
  It all sound very good doesn't it. I haven't mentioned anything bad yet. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xize
Rating: 8.3
Date: Dec 7, 2006 10:02 am PT
Review:  Its a realy good game ive hearn that realy much people plays that game!
  but i dont think call of dutty 2 have more than battlefield 2121 (sorry as i say the name incorrect) 
 but call of duty have some bad points as well its not the gameplay what i need for a multiplayer 
 i will fight whith normal guns and not one of a few futures back or something but the new call 
 of duty3 is a much better i have hearn the game have more better graphics, maps, i go almost think 
 call of duty gone ownz battlefield! but the sound is good to i love snipering! but im everytime 
 naief and dont go in the vehicles! its the same as halo then i feel my stuck and i think i loose 
 mine skillz! because i going in a noobie vehicle but its a good game but not for me! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: StarFoxCOM
Rating: 8.9
Date: Dec 6, 2006 3:26 pm PT
Review:  Call of duty 2 is the first true squel to one of 2002's best games. You get to play as a russian, 
 a britsh soilder, and Amercian and the misson verity is great here my brake down.
  Graphics. looks great, maybe not Farcry or HL2 but it is still a non dated graphical presintation. 
 gameplay. Well the game my add nothing new to the shooter catagory but the firefight rage with 
 granads and you'll watch you're enemy's scarmble if you throw a grnade.
  A. I Is supreme the'll come up with startgys in the germen langauge. an example would be I was behind 
 a wall killing some guy. then one throws a grnand and there for i have to get up and run. then 
 they snipe me from a building and a couple shots later i'm dead. They'll also surprise you when 
 you walk in to a house and a Nazi hides behind a wall then you take machine gun fire.
  sound. Flawless the expolsions sound really loud and real then the Gun sounds are geart.
  lasting 
 apeal the game on normal will take around 10 hours to beat but you'll play agine for a differnt 
 difaculty and then go to multi-player for 32 people max. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: indzman
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 16, 2007 8:28 am PT
Review:  Infinity ward / Activision has presented Call of Duty 2 superbly. You get three large campaigns 
 in the whole game. A russian , British , American Campaign and you've to fight Germans along with 
 your teammates. You get 27 large missions in the three single player campigns. you get varities of 
 weapons in the game. you get to ride vechiles like WWII tank's etc. Call of duty 2's graphic's , 
 A. I ,Music etc is brilliant. You get multiplayer maps also for online action. The Multipayer also 
 is very popular and fun. Call of Duty 2 has more immense, intense, realistic battles than ever before. In 
 this game you are a allied soldier on combat. The game has tremendous action. It is a proud sequel 
 to original Call of duty and Call of Duty expansion United offensive. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Scooby2nv
Rating: 9.1
Date: Dec 5, 2006 9:08 am PT
Review:  This game is the best WW2 FPS ever! After playing this you'll find it hard to go back to medal 
 of honur. Everything about this game rocks, good variety in missions, different locations, clever 
 enemy AI (espcially on the veteran setting!) , good weapon choice and best of all such a great sense 
 of atmosphere! I mean to see planes dogfighting in the air, hearing the chatter of fellow soldiers, 
 gun shots being fired in the distance and best of all seeing grenades and artillery shells go off. 
 The enviroments are amazing, from the war torn towns of france to the freezing snow covered cities 
 of russia then on to the sweeping plains on north africa. The thing that makes this game stand 
 out from other WW2 games is your fellow soldiers. I remember a quote from the first call of duty: 
 'because wars were never one alone'. That is so true! And this game does a good job of giving you 
 an idea of what it would be like to fight alongside other soldiers. For those looking for a tactical 
 squad shooter, go elsewhere, but for everyone else GET THIS!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: highflyer800
Rating: 9.3
Date: Nov 30, 2006 7:00 am PT
Review:  Ive never really been a big callof duty fan pretty much because the first time i brought was for 
 the playstation 2 which in my mind was a big let down but saying that i did buy for the PC and 
 was alot more impressed with it even thought it still was'nt amazing in my mind. Then one day while 
 suching the net i see call of duty 2 game of the year for &pound;10 marked down from &pound;20 
 so i thought ok and snaped it up. I am finally very to say that this is the first call of duty 
 game to make my happy.
  
  The game play in both single and mulitplayer is really good. when i buy a game theses days im looking 
 for online mulitplayers but when i started to play the singleplayer i really got into it. The mulitplayer 
 is still the main thing about this game for me. There was one server i seen that could hold 64 
 players which was really cool. the also lots of games to play like TDM , CTF, S&amp; D and HQ which 
 are all different.
  
  The single player also is really good, when i started out in the training place i thought this 
 is going to be boring but it was'nt at all and about 3 mins later there was gun fire coming from 
 everywhere. this is also what call of duty 2 does really well, putting you in the moment. it kind 
 of makes you feel like your there.
  
  Graphics, even thought they are good when compearing them to the first game there not really a 
 big imporvment and considering they had about 2 years to improve them it not really that impressive. 
 but there are somethings like one one singleplayer mission you blow up a building and the smoke 
 and dust that come from it looks really good.
  
  The sound is one of the best things in this game. It kicks ass from when u hear one big ass nasty 
 tank to your squad talking is again it make you feel in the moment and the sound is just a good 
 in the mulitplayer as it is in the singleplayer. The sound in this game has to be the biggest plus 
 thought for COD2.
  
  The value, i would say there quite alot of hours of gameplay in the singleplayer not 100% sure 
 as im still playing for it but it will keep you going for a while. if you play on hard you should 
 expect to die alot as well its called hard for a reason. theres also a lot of guns in the game 
 that will keep you going for quite a while.
  
  Me being a history fan i am one of the people who will sit happy watching them cut screens talking 
 about what happened (they intreasting i really do thing u should'nt skip them.) They actully do 
 keep to the story of WW2 really well. One thing i hated about medal of honor it pretty says that 
 this one amercian won WW2. but its different with cod2. u start of as an russian then play as a 
 brit then as an american which makes the story more real. this game one of the best WW2 games out 
 there and i really think you should look for it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: _seVen_
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 29, 2006 11:05 am PT
Review:  What Call of Duty 2 does incredibly right, is to deliver the feeling of being at war.
  Medal of Honor games couldn't do that; Call of Duty can.
  
  It's just amazing to take part 
 of the war. Just a regular soldier you are, nothing more. You have 100's of enemies to face, but 
 also, you have 100's of allies who will get the job done if you can't.
  
  The game creates a very intense and adrelaine pumping atmosphere. Now all that sounds great, but...
 
  
  but, we had all that in Call of Duty ONE. Other than new locations, the game hasn't really changed. 
 They added a new health - system, which is pretty cool, you don't have any 'health', it's just 
 that if you get wounded critically, you have to take cover, cause' if you don't, you'll die, but 
 if you get in cover, and hide from the enemies for a fairly short time, you'll heal, and be perfectly 
 healthy again.
  
  Graphically, the game is quite good. I excepted more, though. Unfortunately the game framelags 
 on my system (A64 3200, 7800GT) at maximum settings, which is odd, given the fact there are much 
 better looking games which run at a much better fps, too. The single player campaign is great, 
 a little short, but still, you might find it boring after a while. The gameplay is too limited, 
 not even the occasional tank-missions can make up for it. Speaking of limited: the maps are very 
 narrow. Its either you go straight, or you are not going anywhere. The sounds are great, although, 
 after a while, it may be a little annoying that you hear the same things from the allies, and the 
 enemies too, there should've been more dialogues included. However, the music is top notch.
  
  Overally, the game is pretty good, but it doesn't really include enough new features to say 
 it's great. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KrAzY_Croat
Rating: 8.3
Date: Nov 28, 2006 10:05 am PT
Review:  Call of Duty 2 is without a doubt, the best World War II shooter the world has to offer. But is 
 it the best Shooter overall?
  Firstly, the singleplayer is pointless to persue; its dispointing and boring, but this is not meant 
 to be the highlight of the game. Mutliplayer is where the game trully shines. This mode is not 
 perfect however, and is quite frusterating at times. To demonstrate, the sniper is a ridiculously 
 overpowered weapon. A shot to the kneecap, as undoubtely painful as it may be, can not instantainousely 
 subdue a foe, however this is the case in this game. There is really no aspect of trench warfare 
 which was present at the time of WWII period. Stepping away from that, the sounds are great, the 
 graphics are crisp, and it overall has a very good gameplay value. This game is great, but it is 
 not a game that will trully impress you beyond means of any doubt. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nemesis2403
Rating: 9.2
Date: Nov 26, 2006 3:16 pm PT
Review:  I love this game. The gameplay is simple, keyboard to move, lean and 'use' and mouse to shoot and 
 aim. Go play. Call of Duty 2 lives up to its reputation offering intense single and multi player 
 modes. It's not a next-gen game but it's bloody good!
  
  The graphics are great. You feel like you could reach out and touch characters and weapons although 
 Germans have a tendancy to continue moving their mouths even when dead. A glitch but a humerous 
 one! For PC these graphics are good but older machines may not give player the best experiance 
 that you could get. The sounds are also good. Much more realistic compared to other WWII FPS games. 
 Theres also variety. Near 15,000 voice recordings were made alone!
  
  There are problems though. It can be a slow game if you're processor or RAM isn't as high a spec 
 as other machines and multi player needs a good connection speed to be of any entertainment. I 
 also think that the campaigns are short, locations seem uninspiring and they don't really follow 
 that well. One minute your in Normandy, the next your in Germany. Otherwise this game is excellent! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: airborne_101-82
Rating: 9.7
Date: Nov 25, 2006 12:52 pm PT
Review:  Altough the gameplay hasn't changed much, Call of Duty 2 is still one of the greatest WW2 shooters 
 ever made, but the graphics, sound, and game engine have greatly improved over the course of the 
 years that was taken to produce it. The story line, although not as solid as most WW2 games, allows 
 you to get to know the characters. Another new feature is the grenade indicator, as well as the 
 ability to jump over walls by simply approaching them and hitting the Jump button. What's more 
 is the ability to steady a sniper rifle so as to get straight, solid shots. The environments have 
 greatly improved, as well as the interaction the soldiers of opposing armies (i. e, the insult eachother 
 and such) , along with their reaction with eachother, which offers more realism. All in all, Call 
 of Duty 2 is a solid shooter that definitely earned its spot among the elite. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Doomer101
Rating: 9.8
Date: Nov 24, 2006 4:21 pm PT
Review:  Call of Duty 2, like its predecessor, is a WWII based shooter, in which you are a small soldier, 
 in a huge army. You get to play as the russians, the british, and finally as the Americans.
  
  Graphics : Amazing rendering, spectacular effects... Nothing to complain about. And even if 
 Your computer isn't very good, you can choose to run this game on DX7, which remarquably increases 
 the performance (i. e. FPS) , at the cost of quality. Oh and did i mention how great the smoke looks 
 like?
  
  Gameplay : Ah... The core factor that sets the bar between good and bad games. In CoD 2, You actually 
 feel like you are a small part of an army. Most of the time you have at least 10 soldiers at your 
 side, and the enemy doesnt consistently target you. It is just plain fun to blast the enemy with 
 your machineguns, rifles, or whatever you can get your hands on... From the feeling you get when 
 running on an open field to the very action of throwing a grenade, this game delivers an unforgettable 
 experience.
  The health in this game works in an interesting way : you dont have a health bar, but you cant 
 take too many shots. When you are about to die, the sides of your screen turn red and start pulsating, 
 and eventually a message appears and tells you to take cover, or you will die. When this happens, 
 find a safe place, rest for a few secs, and you are ready to get back into the fight. This makes 
 the game less frustrating, and funer overall.
  
  Another lifesaver is the grenade indicator. Whenever you are close to a grenade, a grenade danger 
 indicator will appear on-screen, telling you in which direction the grenade is from you, and from 
 there you have a few seconds to decide what to do. Of course, sometimes the grenade will fall from 
 the other side of what you are using as cover, the indicator will still appear, but you don't necessarally 
 have to move. A great addition to an amazing game, if you ask me.
  
  The only disappointement in this game is the extremely short single-player campaign. It has alot 
 of memorable moments, but its just too short.
  
  Though the Single player is short, the game is redeemed with its addicting multiplayer game. The 
 multiplayer in this game is just plain fun. Choose your side, allies or axis, select a game (Deatmatch, 
 Team Deathmatch, CTF, Headquarters...) and jump straight into the fragfest. Sound : The voice acting, 
 gunfire, explosions, even footsteps are very realistic and sound even better using the EAX option 
 in the game.
  
  Replay Value : While the game's single player is short, it keeps you coming back because of the 
 intense firefights and memorable moments, but the multiplayer aspect is what really keeps you playing.
 
  
  All in all, from the firefights to the voice acting, COD 2 stands as one of the best shooters available 
 today for the PC and the XBOX 360, and i strongly recommend it to any player, whether you are a 
 casual gamer, or a hardcore FPS player, get this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DREU66
Rating: 9.3
Date: Nov 21, 2006 6:03 am PT
Review:  Este Call of Duty 2 es un aut&eacute; ntico espect&aacute; culo visual y jugable, una aut&eacute; ntica 
 maravilla que te engancha y no te suelta hasta que lo acabas. Las novedades introducidas, fundamentalmente, 
 el sistema de recuperaci&oacute; n de da&ntilde; os lo hace m&aacute; s inmersivo ya que le da m&aacute; s 
 continuidad, aunque es cierto que le quita realismo ya que descansas un poco y ya est&aacute; s 
 recuperado.
  
  Me han encantado sobre todo las misiones con el bando brit&aacute; nico por romper con lo visto 
 en el Call of Duty original y su expansi&oacute; n. Tambi&eacute; n muy buenas las del bando nortemaericano. 
 Quiz&aacute; s algo m&aacute; s repetitiva la campa&ntilde; a rusa con lo visto anteriormente.
  
  This game is incredible ! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 42316
Rating: 9.6
Date: Nov 20, 2006 10:38 am PT
Review:  Unbelievably intense and brilliant action, an all round brilliant WW2 fps that really deserves 
 all the glory and hype its getting. It took a while to finish the SP but I enjoyed every single 
 minute of it. The gfx are great, the sounds just freaking unbelievable and the gameplay just right. 
 I LOVE IT. I don't play MP on the net that much but Call Of Duty 2 was the exception, just bloody 
 brilliant.
  The weapons are distinctly different which makes you think twice before choosing any. unluckily 
 for me I only have 512MB of ram which made loading a bit of a pain and I got a little bit of lag, 
 but otherwise it ran pretty smooth through pretty intense firefights. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: OXM-Madman
Rating: 8.1
Date: Nov 19, 2006 6:25 am PT
Review:  Activision's first Xbox 360 release Title, call Of Duty 2 follows you throughout World War II from 
 the prospective of a Russian, British and American Soldier, sending you to Stalingrad, Africa, 
 and France. One point of note, and a central part of the game, is when you play as a American, 
 leading you to the infamous D-Day Landings. The Russian Campaign is probably the one designed just 
 as a bit of training for the actual game, but is fun none the less.
  
  --------------
  Gameplay
  --------------
  
  Score: 7.6
  
  Many people will say that the Gameplay is excellent, 
 but I beg to differ. If you are a fan of the series or have played previous Titles, you would see 
 that the Gameplay still feels the same and nothing really changes the feel of it significantly; 
 bt it's still fun as hell! The gun fights are amazing, and many times you are stacked against the 
 odds.
  
  -----------
  Sound
  -----------
  
  Score: 9.2
  
  The new sounds added to Call of Duty 3 are also a great improvement. Other than the sound of the 
 Weapons, there are also moments when soldiers just shout out war Speak, such as 'Got that bloody 
 Wanker!', and so on. Even the Germans shout out in German! But we can all probably guess what **** 
 means..... ;)
  
  
  --------------
  Graphics
  --------------
  
  Score: 10
  
  But at least I agree on the graphics! They're excellent, showing the true power of the Xbox 360. 
 You can clearly see that it uses Next-Gen graphic textures, one point proving this being in the 
 American Campaign, you are saved by a Medic, and you see his face. It's just lavishly beautiful. 
 But even 'lavishly beautiful' doesn't unlock the full potential of the great Xbox 360!
  
  ---------
  Value
  ---------
  
  Score: 8.0
  
  he game is fairly simple to complete once 
 you get it. After I got it, I completed it on Normal difficulty in a Month! After that, for the 
 Achievements, it's simply completing the levels on a tougher difficulty. But it is still fun to 
 play the levels over and over and over and over..... The Multiplayer, even though limited to 8 
 Players, greatly adds to the lifespan of this Game. Unfortunately, there are also connection problems 
 when playing online, but they've been fixed recently with a patch.
  
  ---------------------
  Reviewers Tilt
  ---------------------
  
  Score: 7.4
  
  Once 
 in a while, I tilt to specific Genres. Even though FPSs are my Favourite type of Game, there is 
 no particular Tilt towards this Game, as I am a neutral Fan of the Series. 7 will be the standard 
 tilt for my Reviews, more than 7 means I am a fan of this game, or I am a fan of the Series this 
 game is in.
  
  Overall: 8.3
  
  This was a good try for the Xbox 360's first World War action game, but there is still room in 
 there for plenty of improvement, mainly being a bit of a change to the feel, a few more levels, 
 and maybe some improved gun animations. but luckily, Call Of Duty 3 is here....... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ears1991
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 19, 2006 3:40 am PT
Review:  This is the best WW2 Shooter i have played, it is stunning in every possible way. Sound, great, 
 realistic, and not just one sound on a loop all the time...
  Graphics, with a decent PC like mine, this game does not disappoint, some of the best graphics 
 ive seen on my pc, looks just as good, if not better than the xbox 360 version. Very detailed and 
 accurate guns and maps, just everything is amazing, you cant go wrong with this game.
  Stunning gameplay, both single and multiplayer...
  Great storyline, very playable and good replay 
 value.
  Multiplayer keeps you going for ages, plenty of maps and plenty of game modes, great fun to play 
 with mates online.
  
  Simply a great game, they dont get much better than this, you should definitely get this one.
 
  
  Cant wait for Call of duty 3 and I hope it lives up to my expectations. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: WertyYtrewCOD2
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 16, 2006 2:26 am PT
Review:  This game rocks! I will write this in a list way because its so hard to review a game like this!! 
 Gameplay: The gameplay is wonderful! It its shooting down tanks, taking out a flak gun, or holding 
 your position! Nothing in this game was made wrong for the gameplay! (stopping excitedness) To 
 get down to the basics of gameplay I will start out with single player. In single player mode you 
 start out as a russian rifleman who knows nothing about combat but must fight to live. Running 
 around like a crazy pig is what you do mostly in the russian campaign, but you get to relive some 
 of the bloodiest battles of WWII, learning how the russians won. Although when you play the russian 
 campaign you notice how hard it is to get from cover to cover without being shot to death. The 
 campaign is a bit hard because you don't get much training and have weapons that don't stand a 
 chance fighting the fascists. One major problem is no tank support so you must take out every tank 
 in the battlefield to win. That basically explains the russians, now the british. During the british 
 campaign you relive the battles against Rommel's Afrika Korps and the nazi hell of the invasion 
 of Normandy. In this campaign you get tank support..... that doesn't last longer than two seconds 
 because of a tiger tank blowing it up. This campaign is similar to the russian building clearing, 
 but has more space to run around and battle. Now the American campaign. The american campaign take 
 s place over in the Normandy region of France and Germany. All that is here is constant coverless 
 fighting that will likely kill you during the first try or two. I like this campagn the most because 
 of all the cool fighting in Normandy that takes place and the cool history. I should move on.
 
  
  Graphics: The graphics in this game are spectactular. The people in this game look highly realistic 
 and are down to the last detail, even wrinkles on a jacket. Even though the graphics are good, 
 that doesn't mean the game is great because of them. Now too move on to sound.
  
  Sound: The sound in this game is brilliant and highly realistic. There is one problem though..... if 
 one of your discs is scratched you will hear beotch or muahahahaha when you do a melee attack. 
 Other than that weird sound glitch, the sound is wonderful and makes the game better. Now the value.
 
  
  Value: The value of this game is great because the single player missions never get old and multiplayer 
 is there when you want to test your skills! Multiplayer is half the reason why this game is great 
 because it never ends and you can even host your own server for people to play on! Now the best 
 part.....
  
  Reviewers Tilt: I think this game is a must-have and you should buy it if your computer has the 
 right specs to play it! Call of Duty 2 is one of the greatest games I've ever played! I'm sure 
 all you peeps who love fps shooters will love this game!
  
  Hopefully this helps you! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hebri
Rating: 9.4
Date: Nov 16, 2006 1:34 am PT
Review:  If you have a powerful computer with good RAM, Processor, etc, you will be REALLY stupid if you 
 do not get this game (unless you are not a First Person Shooter fan) . When you play the game, you 
 feel that you are in a REAL war, where people screen words like: COVER ME, RELOADING, SAVE ME, 
 etc. When i first played the game, i did not really think that it is going to be THAT good, but 
 i was proven wrong at the very beginning. The excitment begins at the very beginning where you 
 immdeiaty play a war.
  
  All in all, this game will addict FPS fans a lot. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FrozenDragon123
Rating: 8.9
Date: Nov 14, 2006 6:45 pm PT
Review:  Back in 2003 a revolutionary World War 2 game was released for the pc winning over 50 game of the 
 year awards. Then, nearly 2 years later, Infinity Ward released its long awaited sequel, Call of 
 Duty 2. The gameplay is close to perfect and is known for its heart pounding action. The game provides 
 a close up perspective of what it really feels like to be in a war. You will go through the single 
 player campaign as the Russian, British, and American allied forces each with their own assortment 
 of weapons. They added a bunch of new weapons and also removed the need for med kits. How that 
 works is if you take too much damage then you simply find cover and wait for your health to regenerate, 
 while this isn't new to games its good not to spend your time looking for health packs. Though 
 the enemy AI felt a little lacking and the tanks were tough to control the single player was overall 
 good. A huge part of the game is its multiplayer. The maps varied and require good strategy to 
 be successful online. Depending on the map you will play as the German axis or one of the 3 allied 
 forces all with there own weapons. These weapons vary from MGs to shotguns to rifles. The Single 
 player is the full WW2 experience but the multiplayer is the thing that will keep you coming back. 
 If your looking for a fun and intense war game, Call of Duty 2 is the perfect game for any shooter 
 fan. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: B4thecrap
Rating: 9.2
Date: Nov 14, 2006 5:37 pm PT
Review:  I wasn't really that big of a gamer until my dad got his new computer, and u know what the first 
 game I bought for it? That's right Call of Duty 2. After I installed the six discs, sigh. I started 
 it up and I was awed by the impressive visuals, and immersive gameplay. You have three campaigns 
 that you play: the Soviets, the British, and the Americans. You unlock the British and American 
 as you play through the game. The story really pulled me in and the action was great. Not only 
 is the Singleplayer impressive, but the multiplayer is a great way to kill some time. There are 
 multiple types of matches. All are the same from the previous CoD: Death-match, Team Death-match, 
 CTF, HQ. The voice is a nice add-on, but no one ever uses it and you can never find servers with 
 it. Besides that this is a great game all around. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: WinWalter
Rating: 7.8
Date: Nov 9, 2006 11:09 pm PT
Review:  The World War II genre of first person shooters has quickly turned into a massive, gigantic gaming 
 point that is hard to ignore. Call of duty follows the tradition of it's predecessor down to a 
 tee and although there are not that many improvements, it's still a great game to play.
  
  The Call of Duty series has spanned many systems with many games and expansions and has no end 
 in sight. In this game, there is so much going on at times, that it is hard to fathom a World War 
 II simulation getting much better.
  
  Though it plays almost the exact same as the first, that is not a knock but they did add a few 
 new things. The newest feature is the health bar. Concealed, it isn't based on life as it is on 
 your heart rate. When you get hit a lot quickly in succession, you will die but if you take a hit 
 and then find cover, your life regenerates to full and you're good to go again. Though this is 
 not realistic and may have some players wondering about multilayer issues, it is most dramatically 
 seen in the single player but the game is still very, very difficult.
  
  Another new feature, as in some other games, is to hold down a button to steady your aim with rifles. 
 This added feature gives a new level of complexity while keeping in mind that games are about being 
 fun and shouldn't overload you.
  
  One feature I'm not so sure about is the save/load system. There is no actual save button as the 
 game only saves periodically and loads from the last save point. In the single player campaign, 
 there are many save points after you've done a critical objective for example, but sometimes you 
 die right before you get to it, and it can be frustrating playing the same four minutes over and 
 over again until you can get it right.
  
  The game looks and sounds great, almost like it puts you in the beaches or in the sand dunes of 
 North Africa. The models look a little better than before and when you're playing, it almost seems 
 like you're playing with real people at times with individual names and fears. Unfortunately many 
 of them will die as will the other side and made me wonder if the game can get anymore real. From 
 the MG 42s, to the crusader tanks, you really do get immersed in the game.
  
  There are literally thousands of multilayer servers with up to 64 players so finding a game online 
 won't be hard. In addition, there are many mods like air strikes and the ability to carry two weapons. 
 There's deathmatch, team deathmatch, capture the flag and many others that will keep you entertained 
 as long as you have the game.
  
  The game's single player isn't that long and can keep you busy for about 10 hours or so depending 
 on your skill and difficulty setting. In the end, the game isn't much of an upgrade from Call of 
 Duty and many of the multilayer maps are from the original but if you want to add a World War II 
 simulation game to your collection, you'd be hard pressed to find a better choice and watch out 
 for those grenades! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: USMarine47
Rating: 8.4
Date: Nov 9, 2006 9:09 pm PT
Review:  Same idea as that of COD 1, same gameplay, online play is almost identical, new maps and such, 
 I feel that it was worth the price, and am looking forward to COD 3. The games graphical performance 
 was where its at, Looks great on any Nvidia card thrown at it, not to sure about the ATI cards, 
 but assuming they work just as well. again looking forward to the great eye candy of COD 3. Hopefully 
 they can introduce a different multiplayer set up with a king of the hill version or maybe even 
 a capture the flag version. nothing more to do but keep the hopes up for a completely AIed FPS, 
 activision has done well with their COD series and hopefully it will remain as succsesful as MOHAA 
 series were in their prime 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bisherzaki
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 9, 2006 11:13 am PT
Review:  ALL OF DUTY (R) 2 README
  Last Updated: 10-06-2005
  
  =-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-
  TABLE OF CONTENTS
  =-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-
  
  INTRODUCTION
  
  INSTALLATION &amp; SET UP ISSUES 
 1. Minimum System Requirements 2. Splash screen navigation 3. Network Installation VIDEO ISSUES 1. Multiple 
 Monitors 2. In-game and Desktop resolutions 3. Game performance and Optimal System Settings 4. The 
 dynamic link library d3d9. dll could not be found error message
  
  SOUND ISSUES 1. Issues with EAX (R) Sound Provider VIDEO, SOUND &amp; PERFORMANCE OPTIONS 1. OPTIONS 
 &gt; GRAPHICS 2. OPTIONS &gt; SOUND 3. OPTIONS &gt; GAME OPTIONS 4. OPTIONS &gt; OPTIMAL SYSTEM 
 SETTINGS
  
  SINGLE PLAYER ISSUES 1. Objective indicators on the compass 2. cannot open file for saving error 
 message. 3. Loading times with 256MB of RAM.
  
  MULTIPLAYER &amp; INTERNET ISSUES 1. Recommended maximum client settings for hosting over DSL 2. 
 Dedicated server running on Windows (R) 2003
  
  WINDOWS (R) SPECIFIC OPERATING SYSTEM ISSUES 1. Virtual Memory Warnings in Windows (R) 2000 and Windows (R) 
 XP 2. Shift Key in Windows (R) 2000 and XP Interrupts Game 3. Windows (R) Key Interrupts Game in 2000/XP 
 4. CTRL-ALT-DEL Freezes System On Windows (R) 2000 5. Game Icons Are Missing From Start Menu And/Or 
 Desktop In Windows (R) 2000/XP 6. Admin rights needed to load and play on Windows (R) 2000/XP 7. Microsoft (R) 
 Intellipoint drivers and Middle-Mouse Button functionality
  
  Copyright Information
  
  =-=-=-=-=-=-=-
  INTRODUCTION
  =-=-=-=-=-=-=-
  
  Refer to this document if you encounter 
 difficulties with one or more aspects of the installation or running Call of Duty 2. Many of the 
 most commonly encountered issues are covered here.
  
  =-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=
  INSTALLATION &amp; SET UP ISSUES
  =-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=
  
  1. Minimum System Requirements
 
  
  - 3D Hardware Accelerator Card Required - 100% DirectX (R) 9.0c compatible 64 MB Hardware Accelerator 
 video card and the latest drivers
  - Microsoft (R) Windows (R) 2000/XP
  - Pentium (R) 4 1.4GHz or AMD Athlon (tm) XP 1700+
  - 256 MB RAM (512 MB RAM recommended)
  - 
 DirectX (R) 9.0c (included)
  - 100% DirectX (R) 9.0c compatible 16-bit sound card and latest drivers.
  - 100% Windows (R) 2000/XP 
 compatible mouse, keyboard and latest drivers
  - 4 GB of uncompressed free hard disk space (plus 600MB for Windows (R) 2000/XP swap file)
  - 
 8x Speed CD-ROM or 2x Speed DVD-ROM drive.
  
  Important Note: *Some 3D accelerator cards with the chipset listed here may not be compatible with 
 the 3D acceleration features utilized by Call of Duty (R) 2. Please refer to your hardware manufacturer 
 for 100% DirectX (R) 9.0c compatibility.
  
  This product does not support Microsoft (R) Windows (R) 95/98/ME or NT.
  
  SUPPORTED CHIPSETS:
 
  - ATI (R) Radeon (R) 8500
  - ATI (R) Radeon (R) 9000
  - ATI (R) Radeon (R) 9200
  - ATI (R) Radeon (R) 9500
  - ATI (R) Radeon (R) 9600
  - ATI (R) Radeon (R) 9700
  - ATI (R) Radeon (R) 
 9800
  - ATI (R) Radeon (R) X300
  - ATI (R) Radeon (R) X550
  - ATI (R) Radeon (R) X600
  - ATI (R) Radeon (R) X700
  - ATI (R) Radeon (R) X800
  - ATI (R) Radeon (R) X850
  - NVIDIA (R) GeForce (tm) 
 2 Ultra
  - All NVIDIA (R) GeForce (tm) 3/Ti Series
  - All NVIDIA (R) GeForce (tm) 4/Ti Series
  - All NVIDIA (R) GeForce (tm) FX Series
  - All NVIDIA (R) 
 GeForce (tm) 6 Series
  - All NVIDIA (R) GeForce (tm) 7 Series
  
  2, Splash Screen In order for the splash screen to function properly, the game disc must be in 
 the drive.
  
  3. Network Installation
  
  When installing the game remotely to another system, users installing from CDs may encounter a 
 message stating that some files cannot be found. If this occurs, please insert the next CD into 
 the drive and continue the installation.
  
  =-=-=-=-=-=-=-
  VIDEO ISSUES
  =-=-=-=-=-=-=-
  
  Video Cards
  
  Call of Duty (R) 2 will automatically detect and set your 
 game graphics to recommended settings for optimal performance. You can customize your settings
 
  by going to the Options menu from the main menu. 1. Multiple Monitors
  If you are running a machine with multiple monitors and the video card for each monitor is an OpenGL 
 compliant video card (e. g., GeForce series cards) , you may experience problems running the game, 
 as the game will recognize both video cards. Simply disable one of the monitors in the Windows (R) 
 Display Properties. 2. In-game and Desktop resolutions
  Do not choose an in-game resolution that is higher than your desktop resolution. You may only be 
 able to see as much of the game as is viewable at your desktop
  resolution. (For example, if your desktop resolution is set to 1024x768, and you choose an in-game 
 resolution of 1600x1200, the game screen may stretch beyond the size of your monitor screen) . 3. 
 Game performance and Optimal System Settings
  Call Of Duty (R) 2 defaults to settings according to your hardware configuration. These settings 
 are created with visual quality and performance in mind. Users
  experiencing poor performance may want to disable Anti-Aliasing in the Graphics
  portion of the 
 Options Menu. 4. The dynamic link library d3d9. dll could not be found error message
  
  If an error message occurs stating The dynamic link library d3d9. dll could not be found.. please 
 make sure you have DirectX (R) 9.0c properly installed on your system.
  
  =-=-=-=-=-=-=- SOUND ISSUES
  =-=-=-=-=-=-=-
  
  1. Issues with EAX (R) Sound Provider
  
 
  While using a sound card that supports EAX, you may experience occasions
  of loud sounds while using the EAX sound provider. To avoid this, and the potential hazard of damaging 
 your speakers, it is recommended that
  you avoid using a high speaker volume on your sound system in combination with a low Master Volume 
 setting in the Options&gt; Sound menu of Call of Duty 2. Doing so may cause damage to your hearing 
 or speaker hardware.
  
  If possible, you should turn down your speaker volume on your sound system
  and turn up the Master 
 Volume in the Options&gt; Sound menu to get desired volume levels while playing the game. If this 
 is not possible, and you are experiencing the problem mentioned above, it is recommended that you
 
  switch sound providers in the Options&gt; Sound menu to Miles Fast 2D Positional Audio.
  
  
  VIDEO, SOUND &amp; PERFORMANCE OPTIONS
  
 
  
  The Options menu in Call of Duty 2 allows you to adjust a number of different graphic, sound, and 
 general performance settings. This menu is useful for fine-tuning both the visual quality and overall 
 game performance, in order to maximize player enjoyment and insure smooth play. Call of Duty 2 
 automatically detects system hardware and sets all values to optimal settings, taking into account 
 your system's processor speed, available system RAM, video card power, video RAM, and various other 
 factors. You may wish to modify these settings, and this section is intended to be a guide to each 
 setting and the impact of changing it.
  
  OPTIONS &gt; SYSTEM &gt; GRAPHICS
  
  Video Mode
  
  Allows you to set the screen resolution for the game. IMPORTANT NOTE: You should 
 not adjust your in-game screen resolution to a setting beyond what your monitor can support. You 
 should consult your monitor's documentation in order to learn about supported resolutions.
  
  Screen Refresh Rate
  
  Allows you to change the refresh rate of your monitor. WARNING: 
 Do not set a refresh rate that is higher than your monitor supports! Check with your monitors manufacturer 
 to see all available refresh rates in all resolutions.
  
  Aspect Ratio
  
  Allows you to adjust the aspect ratio of the game. Wide 16:9 and Wide 16:10 are for widescreen 
 monitors. If you are unsure of what setting to pick, you can use the Auto setting to allow the 
 game to pick for you
  
  Texture Filter
  
  Allows you to choose between bilinear, trilinear and Anisotropic filtering for all in-game textures. 
 If you have a lower-end video card, you should choose bilinear.
  
  Anti-Alisasing
  
  Allows you to adjust anti-aliasing settings. 4x is the maximum setting. However, users experiencing 
 performance issues may want to reduce this to 2x, or OFF.
  
  Rendering Method Preference
  
  Allows users to switch between DirectX (R) 7 and 9. Users unsure as to which is correct should 
 choose AUTO. Brightness
  
  Allows you to control the brightness ( gamma ) level in the game. Move the slider to the right 
 to increase the gamma, or to the left to decrease.
  
  Sync Every Frame
  
  Setting this option to Yes will synchronize the game's redraw rate with your monitor's refresh 
 rate. This will minimize graphical tearing at the expense of some performance.
  
  Optimize for SLI (TM)
  
  Set this to YES if you are running more than one GPU.
  
  Shadows
 
  
  Toggles shadows on and off. Disabling shadows may increase performance.
  
  Number Of Dynamic Lights
  
  Allows you to adjust the amount of Dynamic Lights in the game. 
 A lower setting will improve performance at the expense of visual quality.
  
  Soften Smoke Edges
  
  This allows you to adjust how much the smoke effect is softened. Setting 
 it to EVERYTHING softens the smoke in all instances. Setting it to WORLD softens in fewer instances. 
 Setting this to WORLD or OFF may increase performance at the expense of visual quality.
  
  Number Of Corpses
  
  Sets the number of corpses that remain on the battlefield during gameplay. 
 You can choose from Tiny, Small, Medium, Large, and Insane settings. Consider reducing this setting 
 to help improve game performance.
  
  Texture Settings
  
  This allows users to manually change Texture, Normal Map, and Specular Map Resolution. Changing 
 these settings can significantly affect performace.
  
  2. OPTIONS &gt; SOUND
  
  Master Volume
  
  Controls the volume for music, sound effects, and voices. Move the slider 
 to the right to increase the overall volume of the game.
  
  Sound Quality
  
  Allows you to choose between 44KHz (high) , 22KHz (normal) and 11KHz (low) sound quality. The higher 
 the sound quality, the more memory the sound files require. If you are experiencing game performance 
 issues, a downgrade in sound quality may help.
  
  Sound Provider
  
  Sets the source for the sound in the game. Miles (tm) Fast 2D Positional Audio is the default provider. 
 If your sound card supports Creative Labs' (EAX, EAX 2 or EAX 3) audio performance systems, you 
 may want to consider changing your sound provider to the one your card supports.
  
  3. GAME OPTIONS
  
  Subtitles
  
  This option will enable subtitles to appear whenever other 
 characters say things important to gameplay.
  
  Enable Crosshair
  
  This enables or disables your crosshair.
  
  Show Blood
  
  This enables or disables blood 
 effects in the game.
  
  Enable Console This enables or disables the console for inputting console commands. Please note 
 Activision (R) does not support the use of console commands.
  
  4. OPTIONS &gt; OPTIMAL SYSTEM SETTINGS
  
  Select this to restore the auto-detect Optimal System 
 Settings.
  
  =-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-
  SINGLE PLAYER ISSUES
  =-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=- 1. Objective indicators on the compass
  
  Many missions in Call Of Duty 
 2 allow the player to complete mission objectives in any order. The objective points in the player 
 compass are sometimes indicated by gold stars and sometimes by letters. 2. Cannot open file for 
 saving error message.
  
  If you receive the cannot open file for saving error message, this most likely means your hard 
 drive does not have sufficient space required to create a save game file. Verify that your hard 
 drive has sufficient space available and then re-try the game. 3. Loading times with 256MB of RAM
 
  
  Users who have 256MB of RAM may experience extended load times as a result of Windows (R) memory 
 requirements during this process exceeding requirements during actual game play. =-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-
 
  MULTIPLAYER &amp; INTERNET ISSUES
  =-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=- 1. Recommended maximum client settings when hosting over DSL
  
 
  If hosting a Multiplayer game over a DSL connection, the following amount of clients are recommended: 
 (users hosting on listen servers should count themselves when totaling)
  128k upload: 4 players
  384k upload: 8 players
  768k upload: 10 players
  
  Exceeding these 
 numbers when hosting over DSL may result in laggy conditions. 2. Dedicated server running on Windows (R) 
 2003
  
  Creating a Call Of Duty (R) 2 dedicated server requires the presence of a profile. To manually create 
 one, do the following:
  
  Add +set dedicated [1 = LAN, 2 = Internet] to the shortcut for Multiplayer
  
  Add the following 
 folders:
  [Call of Duty 2] \main\players
  [Call of Duty 2] \main\players\ [profile name] (Ex. [Call of Duty 2] \main\players\MyProfile)
  
 
  Create a file named active. txt in [Call of Duty 2] \main\players with the profile name in the first 
 line.
  
  Create a blank file named config_mp. cfg in [Call of Duty 2] \main\players\ [profile name]
  
  
 If done correctly, the user will get a message that the configuration has changed since the last 
 time Call of Duty 2 was last run. The user will be presented two options, YES and NO. Select YES 
 to have the correct config file automatically created for you. Once that has completed, you will 
 be at the dedicated server console.
  
  
  WINDOWS (R) SPECIFIC OPERATING SYSTEM ISSUES
  
  
 
  1. Virtual Memory Warnings in Windows (R) 2000/XP
  
  Users playing on machines using the Windows (R) 2000/XP operating systems that possess less than 
 600 megabytes (MB) of virtual memory may receive low virtual memory warnings. To avoid these warnings, 
 please make sure you set your virtual memory settings to at least 600 megabytes (MB) .
  
  To adjust your virtual memory settings, please do the following:
  
  For Windows (R) XP systems:
 
  1) Right click the My Computer icon.
  2) Select Properties.
  3) Select the Performance tab.
  4) Select Virtual Memory.
  
  For Windows (R) 2000 systems:
 
  1) Right click the My Computer icon.
  2) Select Properties.
  3) Select Advanced.
  4) Select Performance Options.
  
  2. Shift Key in Windows (R) 2000/XP Interrupts Game:
  
 
  If you press the Shift key 5 times consecutively in Windows (R) 2000 or Windows (R) XP the following 
 message should appear:
  
  Pressing the SHIFT key 5 times turns on StickyKeys. StickyKeys lets you use the SHIFT, CTL, ALT, 
 or Windows Logo keys by pressing one key at a time.
  
  To Keep StickyKeys on, click OK.
  To cancel StickyKeys, click Cancel.
  To deactivate the key combination for StickyKeys, click 
 Settings. 
  
  To avoid this happening in the future, click the settings button on the window referenced above. 
 When the accessibility options screen appears, click the Settings button in the Sticky Keys portion 
 of the window. On the next window (should be labeled Settings For Sticky Keys ) , uncheck the box 
 that says Use shortcut , then click on ok . Then, click on apply and close the window. The problem 
 should not occur once the shortcut has been disabled.
  
  3. Windows (R) Key Interrupts Game in 2000/XP
  
  If the Windows (R) key is pressed during game 
 play, the Start Menu will interrupt the game. Should this happen, simply press the Escape (Esc) 
 key to close the menu and return to the game. Unfortunately, there is no way to prevent this from 
 happening again except by being careful not to hit those keys while playing.
  
  4. CTRL-ALT-DEL Freezes System On Windows (R) 2000
  
  If the CTRL-ALT-DEL keys are pressed during 
 game play, the screen will become corrupt and sometimes the system may become unstable. Should 
 this happen, simply press the Escape (Esc) key to return to the game or reboot the computer and 
 refrain from trying to access the task manager while playing the game.
  
  5. Game Icons Are Missing From Start Menu And/Or Desktop In Windows (R) 2000/XP
  
  When installing 
 Call of Duty 2 while logged into Windows (R) as a specific user, the game icons will only show up 
 when logging in as that user. For example, if you log into Windows (R) as Joeuser , install the 
 game, then log out and log back in as Janeuser , the game icons will not show up. If you wish to 
 play the game, make sure you log into Windows (R) as the same user you were logged in as when you 
 installed the game.
  
  6. Admin Rights Needed To Load and Play On Windows (R) 2000 or XP
  
  If you are running Windows (R) 2000 or Windows (R) XP, you must have Administrator rights to 
 properly install and play the game.
  
  7. Microsoft (R) Intellipoint drivers and Middle-Mouse Button functionality
  
  Currently the 
 latest version of Microsoft (R) Intellipoint drivers bind the middle-mouse button to the ALT-TAB 
 function. Using the middle-mouse button with this default setting may switch tasks while playing 
 Call Of Duty (R) 2.
  
  =-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-
  COPYRIGHT INFORMATION
  =-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-
  Call Of Duty (R) 2 uses:
  
  Speekx:
  &copy; 2002-2003, Jean-Marc 
 Valin/Xiph. Org Foundation
  
  Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without modification, are permitted 
 provided that the following conditions are met: Redistributions of source code must retain the 
 above copyright notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer. Redistributions in 
 binary form must reproduce the above copyright notice, this list of conditions and the following 
 disclaimer in the documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution. Neither 
 the name of the Xiph. org Foundation nor the names of its contributors maybe used to endorse or 
 promote products derived from this software without specific prior written permission. This software 
 is provided by the copyright holders and contributors as is and any express or implied warranties, 
 including, but not limited to, the implied warranties of merchantability and fitness for a particular 
 purpose are disclaimed. In no event shall the foundation or contributors be liable for any direct, 
 indirect, incidental, special, exemplary, or consequential damages (including, but not limited 
 to, procurement of substitute goods or services; loss of use, data, or profits; or business interruption) 
 however caused and on any theory of liability, whether in contract, strict liability, or tort (including 
 negligence or otherwise) arising in any way out of the use of this software, even if advised of 
 the possibility of such damage. ----------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  
  Zlib: Copyright (C) 1995-2004 Jean-loup Gailly and Mark Adler
  
  This software is provided 'as-is', without any express or implied
  warranty. In no event will 
 the authors be held liable for any damages
  arising from the use of this software.
  
  -----------------------------------------------------------------------
  
  Groupvoice: Copyright 
 (c) 2003, Jon Shiring, Peter Brunner
  All rights reserved.
  
  Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
  modification, are permitted 
 provided that the following conditions are
  met: * Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
  notice, this list of conditions 
 and the following disclaimer.
  * Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
  notice, this list of conditions 
 and the following disclaimer in the
  documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
  * The names of its contributors 
 may be used to endorse or promote
  products derived from this software without specific prior written
  permission.
  
  THIS SOFTWARE 
 IS PROVIDED BY THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND CONTRIBUTORS AS
  IS AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO,
  THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES 
 OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR
  PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE COPYRIGHT OWNER OR
  CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE FOR 
 ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL,
  EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO,
  PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE 
 GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR
  PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF
  LIABILITY, WHETHER IN 
 CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING
  NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS
  SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED 
 OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.
  
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------
  
  NVIDIA, the NVIDIA 
 Logo, NVIDIA SLI, and other NVIDIA Marks are registered trademarks or trademarks of NVIDIA Corporation 
 in the United States and other countries. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RedneckGamer87
Rating: 9.6
Date: Nov 6, 2006 10:52 pm PT
Review:  This is one of the best World War Two first person shooters I have played, It's way better then 
 most of the Medal of Honor games out there so far.
  
  Gameplay: The gameplay is absolutly amazing, It improves from the first call of duty by improving 
 the macanics in the game. There are a bunch of new guns like the M-1 Carbine, the Greese gun, a 
 new PPSH and so on. You get to fight though the American, British and Russian campains which are 
 not that long but it depends on what level setting your at and how good your shooting and shooting 
 reaction is because It could effect if you live or die. You get to play though D-day and the battle 
 of stalingrad, fight thoug the north african desert and all thoughs famous battles which is quite 
 entertaining. There is no health bar and health packs in the game which makes it more realistic 
 so there is no rambo like action going on. After you are done with the single player you can go 
 on to play the multiplayer which is very accitive, there is no stoping me from playing this game 
 for an hour most days after a day of work and start shooting people. i have been coming back to 
 play the multiplay for months and not got board of it. Graphics: The graphics are outstanding, 
 they are very realistic the bullets would make life like impessions on the walls and the desighs 
 of the troops and guns are very well done. Also the color and 3-D graphics it really looks nice 
 and comparing it to the first call of duty it's really come along way and back then I though the 
 graphics we good. But graphics dose not always say a good game it's the gameplay but the graphics 
 do help the game at times.
  '
  Sound: This has great sound, From the crack of the rifle to the boom of the artilery it all sounds 
 very nice and crisp on my sound sound. It really helps to bring the expereince alive.
  
  Value: This game has great replay value, you can play this game on the three difficaly setters 
 easy, medium and hard which will keep you busy for a while and give you a challange. But the Multiplayer 
 part of the game is the part that keeps you coming back for more. So this game has great replay 
 value.
  
  All in all this is a great game to add to you collection of games and should not be looked over. 
 I give this game 9 out of 10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Marko218
Rating: 9.4
Date: Nov 5, 2006 7:30 am PT
Review:  Call of Duty 2 or CoD2 is a First Person Shooter from WW2 and has the newest grafics and effects 
 that every gamer needs!. The thrill while playing online is superb! and many many people play this 
 game. it is among topp 10 on most played games list of Xfire.
  
  So if you are tired of CS and medal of honor Give this game a chance, you WILL like it!
  
  
 The Singerlplayer campaign is OK, as usually most people forget about it when they start playing 
 online. The online game is very nice setup like the previus games just much better grafics and 
 combat effects. The weapons are much Cooler and easier to get the hang of. And people use weapons 
 after what style they like. ALL weapons are beeing used nearly as much. Since they all very good 
 in their own way. Call of Duty 2 is simply a HUGE improvement too Call of Duty (game of the year 
 2003)
  
  The only thing I was missing was some of the extra stuff they had in the Expansion on United offensive, 
 Like: Tanks and jeeps, plus some extra game mods like base assault. and maybe the transportable 
 machine guns they had. They preserved some of the most populare maps from CoD. Thats all, thank 
 you for reading all this. I hope it affected you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PunkAss007
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 4, 2006 2:19 pm PT
Review:  As I said, probably the best FPS I've ever played... The Graphics is realy great, and far away 
 from it's precedors... It has high level of detail and it is realy precise... Effects are done 
 pretty good also, and by effects i mean explosions, shooting and stuf like that... The sound is 
 also stunning... You can speak (voice menu, selecting the sentences) ... I think I'm in love with 
 this game... I realy do think so, lol... Yes, I did beat the game, and I intend in beating it again, 
 and again and again and again until my PC goes crazy... It is realy awsome... But mark my words... 
 Realy realy awsome... I think I'll ask the game out on a date... I'm just preying that it's a female... 
 just kidding, lol... The game is 10/10 perfect!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mi33ke
Rating: 9.8
Date: Nov 1, 2006 5:19 pm PT
Review:  There are so many great servers i could recomend, great maps and costume maps, i elieve a few days 
 ago i played at a server whic had a map from pirates of the carribean and the lord of the rings, 
 with the correct music. The gameplay is excelent, Sound is perfect, action is overwhelming. choosing 
 your weopon, picking your team. It is so realistic it is just fun. i advise you to get this rihg 
 tnow. I play this game more then 5 hours a day, excepially if your in a really good clan. If you 
 looking for a good game thats not to much i suggest this or battle feild 2. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Donarudo88
Rating: 9.3
Date: Oct 29, 2006 10:07 am PT
Review:  Once I started playing it couldn't stop because I was so curious to see what the next crazy mission 
 was but the fun ended way too soon. There a re a lot of neat weapons I haven't seen in any other 
 army game so that's also a plus. Beat the game in 2 days though, so the fun didn't last too long. 
 The graphics and lighting are beautiful. The world detail and models are look so real you can literally 
 see the pores on your fellow soldiers faces. Nice victory music and realistic weapon sound FX. 
 Would definitely pick this up if you're a fan of the FPS genre. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JOE714
Rating: 9.8
Date: Oct 26, 2006 9:02 am PT
Review:  To say that the decision to give Call of Duty 2 a try wasnt difficult is an understatement. Given 
 the number of times I played through many of the levels in the first game over and over -- trying 
 for a higher body count or to pick a different path through the carnage  I knew that CoD2 had 
 just what I wanted for a great semi-realistic combat fix. Previews for the game promised better 
 graphics, enhanced squad AI, and another chance to ride around in some vintage war machines. With 
 those improvements and more, the game paid for itself many times over.
  
  Any time I think back on my experiences in Call of Duty 2, the games incredible particle effects 
 stand out more than any other feature in my memory. The smoke from burning battle assets is layered 
 and plentiful, and the exhaust and loose sand or snow kicked up by bullets and tank treads is suitably 
 realistic. Smoke grenades were added to CoD2 and I consistently found them essential for gaining 
 ground, particularly when faced with an MG42 that might otherwise shred me and my squadmates the 
 moment any of us popped up from behind cover. The Crusader tank levels were especially well-designed. 
 Set in the Libyan desert under a red-tinged sky, the level of detail (manmade dust storms, explosions 
 galore, and gorgeous lighting) splayed across the low hills of sand were about as near to photo-realistic 
 as I imagine DX9 rendering can get. The game looked good on my old Radeon 9600 and incredible on 
 an X850.
  
  The tank levels, as in the previous games, were over far too quickly, although the missions that 
 followed were just as interesting in a variety of ways. The very last level was an excellent street-to-street 
 tussle that culminated in the monumental (and downright suicidal, if not done just right) task 
 of pasting sticky bombs to Tiger tanks. Before that, the games Hill 400 sequences  in which the 
 player must first fight a literal uphill battle to an important German position, then hold that 
 spot with very little help from the rear echelon  were incredibly fun, building to an anything-goes 
 dogpile of Germans and GIs atop the cratered rise.
  
  There are so many other elements of Call of Duty 2 that are deserving of praise, most of which 
 already created a very favorable impression in the previous installment. Foremost among the games 
 strong suits are its dependable squad AI and wonderfully balanced armament that make all manner 
 of soldiering (sniping, close-quarters, heavy ground-to-air engagement, etc.) challenging and entertaining 
 in equal measure. As long as the Call of Duty series continues to present realistic and unique 
 scenarios with stunning graphics and immersive sound effects, Ill be here, ready to tag along 
 on the journey. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: arvievo2
Rating: 9.4
Date: Oct 26, 2006 8:57 am PT
Review:  Call of Duty 2 is a very fantastic game to play, and it has a good gameplay and more facilities 
 to use... more maps and more armies...
  
  it's a very goof first person shotting game.. it has a nice tasks, not to hard not to easy... the 
 graphics are good, with more smooth texture...
  
  we never walk alone, but we have to help our friends too... some missions, you have to go alone 
 or with a few armies...
  
  you better watchout with snipers and machine gunner (MG42) they are kind of hard to fight. use 
 granades to get those germans runs away from their machine guns...
  
  my favourite army is English.. when they are in desserts and use snipers... i can kick those gerries 
 (germans) ass from their nests..
  
  also try to play the multiplayer game, not bad too, but i never tried it... haha.. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AmarJ
Rating: 9.4
Date: Oct 25, 2006 8:31 pm PT
Review:  Surely I can bet my money on this thing that this is the best FPS one can own. Never seen an fps 
 as real as this. And there are moments when you will feel blood rushing through your body, adrenaline 
 pumping, to go KILL the enemy! Based on WW-II, you couldn't have got a better game. The game has 
 three different campaings and in each of them it puts you in shoes of a new hero. There are lots 
 of old guns to fire with, surely lovable. The AI is preety good too. And your enemies are as good 
 as you could have wished them to be. When hurt, but not dead, they lie on the ground and shoot 
 with there pistols as rifles are harder for them to shoot in that situation. Now how good is that 
 ! There are also a few really snappy missions too, where you have to hide from your enemies. All 
 in all, this game's awesome (My best fps anyways) and you should definitely put it on you PC or 
 console. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Whitsel
Rating: 9.6
Date: Oct 17, 2006 1:57 am PT
Review:  This is undoubtabley a run-n-gun shooter but with a deep and immersive cinematic &amp; dramatic 
 campaign, reletive Battlefield 2-style of roaming and a overall satisfying feel. The weapons are 
 true to life and sound almost as good as they look on the PC, which is quite unbelievabley accurate 
 and graphicly superb. The smoke and explosion effects are as good as it gets (though they could 
 be a little darker apposed to the light-gray smoke) . The gameplay is about as close to realistic 
 as it gets as well, with a fairly available roaming ability by choosing, tacticly, which building/area 
 to assault next. And finally the game's presentation of realism with enemy AI charging you when 
 your too close, hiding when under fire and laying down fire to recover fellow AI from open ground. 
 Simply Put, It Is The Best WWII Shooter To Date Either On The 360 or PC But If You Have A Good 
 PC (Vid Card Is 256mb Go 7900 GS) Then Get it For The PC For The Sake of Graphics. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jelle_schepens
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 15, 2006 2:03 am PT
Review:  Call of Duty 2 is on of the most complete games i know in the first person shooter world, they 
 say battlefield 2 rocks but Call of Duty 2 OWNS all those games, let me give you a piece of advice, 
 if you get just enough money to but 1 game, BUY CALL OF DUTY 2, and you'll thank me... if am in 
 one big gaming clan of call of duty 2 and united offensive, and ill tell you i play call of duty 
 for about 4 years now, and most games i'm sick of after 2-3 HOURS
  clan site www. nicnicfungame. be
  
  some positive sides
  - nice set of weapons, good choice....
 
  - nice graphics
  - nice gameplay
  - SWEET single-player
  - choice of uniforms, snow levels = snow uniforms and so...
  - ....
  
  downsides (like every 
 game)
  - only 1level in single-player you can ride in a tank (no tanks or other in MP)
  - loader of thompson, bullets went from 30 to 20
  - i can't come up any more downsides...
  
 
  it's a gotta-buy game for every first-person-shooter lover!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spikepigeo
Rating: 8.9
Date: Oct 11, 2006 12:12 am PT
Review:  The sound on this game is incredible by the way, let me just get that out of the way. The graphics 
 are the best of any WW2 FPS i've have yet to see and the gameplay is as good as your gonna get 
 for s WW2 FPS. So you can already tell by what i said (or if you read my review deck) that i think 
 its the best WW2 FPS EVER. I absolutely loved how long it was with the different playable armies. 
 That would be the Soviets, the British Commonwealth forces and the U. S. Army Rangers. I was also 
 proud to find that the American Campaign was the most fun out of all three. The difficulty levels 
 were really good too. I liked it how if you did Regular difficulty, you could get hit a bunch of 
 times before you went down like you were some sort of elite soldier and if you did hard or even 
 harder then you were like every other soldier. It really does make you feel like a smaller part 
 of a bigger war but you can still make a huge difference. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kemicon
Rating: 7.2
Date: Oct 10, 2006 11:53 am PT
Review:  Call of Duty 2 is a mostly mindless shooter that offers up some decent gun play for a few hours. 
 Tossed in are some well done scripted sequences and some open vehicle levels which help jazz things 
 up a bit. The basic game-play in single player is to go from point A to point B and kill everything 
 ,except for the friendly troops that fight with you in large numbers. A decent multi-player game 
 helps add fun and value.
  
  The AI shows a small amount of intelligence and enemies will duck for cover and occasionally flank. 
 Since your health will regenerate ala Halo, you never have to worry about taking any hits. If you 
 want to beat a level just charge through, it's rarely much of a challenge and some levels can be 
 beaten in under two minutes.
  
  The visuals are passable, but fail to impress on a high end PC. Forget about seeing any good physics 
 here as even the windows can't be shot out. Scattered throughout the levels are some crates and 
 barrels that can be destroyed and it should be noted that when things blow up, they blow up good.
 
  
  Where Call of Duty truly shines is in it's scripted moments and the massive amounts of on screen 
 characters at any given moment. The frame rate is solid throughout and the sound is of an extremely 
 high quality. Over all the presentation is lackluster however, with little to no CGI work and only 
 grainy World War 2 photos shown slide-show style to set the mood.
  
  If you love WW2 games and you are light on skills the single player experience will offer a marginal 
 amount of fun. Taking the fight on line extends the overall value but in the end it isn't enough 
 to warrant a higher score.
  
  Don't believe the hype. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wildamnesia
Rating: 9.6
Date: Oct 10, 2006 5:30 am PT
Review:  I loved Call of Duty on the PC and actually bought an Xbox 360 for the sole purpose of playing 
 it's sequel. I've more recently bought a high-end PC and played Call of Duty 2 all over again. 
 It's simply an amazing game. The visuals, audio and gameplay all come together in perfect harmony 
 to create the most immersive and spectacular gaming experience it's possible to achieve.
  
  I have only a tiny criticism; I would like to see a more grusome damage model for WWII games. When 
 people get shot in the head, the head tends to come apart and grenades generally cause limbs to 
 get blown off. I would just like to experience the full horror of battle in WWII, I don't want 
 to play sugar-coated version.
  
  In my opinion, it ranks as THE best first-person shooter in existence. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: linkme
Rating: 9.6
Date: Oct 8, 2006 3:00 am PT
Review:  You start the game off with your team mates talking to you, and then you are off running through 
 the gritty battlefield, go off planes a falling from the air. straight away you well like you are 
 not in your living room but back in time kicking arse in world war two. The game AI is greatly 
 detailed and you really get to see the hardship that the soldiers went through during world war 
 two. There are games that you can enjoy and there are games you fell you are involved in, and this 
 is one fell so imersed in. Don't miss it, if you are going to get call of duty 3 get this first. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bazook
Rating: 9.3
Date: Oct 7, 2006 1:21 am PT
Review:  Seriously we are gonna have to play this game over and over especially after when COD 3 comes out 
 man they should've made a PC version I think. Oh well anyway to the game the singleplayer is awesome 
 but can be pretty harsh at times like the second mission on the first chapter on the russian campaign. You 
 have to kill off loads of germans at once. But there's loads! Lol and the english missions are some 
 of those sort of fav missions but you wouldn't play them much. But the american campaign has **** 
 loads of stuff I mean I love the voices there's loads of times where someone might go. Hey Fritz 
 your sister said to say hi! Or Kiss my New York Ass! Genius and the missions are the so kl the 
 D-Day missions are the coolest and the last mission on the Hill 400 chapter is awesome in fact 
 I must play that in a min. The multiplayer is amazing and fun I just love it. Well like I said 
 I'm gonna play the game in a min so see you and I might do another review after the game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FastrBlastr
Rating: 9.8
Date: Oct 6, 2006 6:36 pm PT
Review:  This game is great! Its a very very very big multiplayer game its third most play on xfire and 
 is just plan fun. Its really cool because it just is Rofl. You can be in a clan that you have scrims 
 and matches with or you can just play. Its just really fun. You can make very cool videos of yourself 
 playing and a lot others. There is cool mods. If you want fast past first person shooter game with 
 a Very Very Very big multiplayer this is the game for you. BUT I NEVER WANT TO CATCH YOU HACKING 
 I REPEAT I NEVER WANT TO CATCH YOU HACKING. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: solid_snake_fox
Rating: 9.1
Date: Oct 6, 2006 8:41 am PT
Review:  Well i played tha last part i. e Call of Duty, really enjoyed tha game, it was my first experience 
 in war games but i really got immersed into the graphics and story. COD (R) has been a very fine 
 series and i really await COD (R) 3 on PC. Though tha game i not of much lenght, it took nearly a 
 day (6 hours) to clear tha game but i enjoyed each and every moment. I found the game play of COD (R) 2 
 is a bit hard, compared to the previous part.
  Call of Duty 2 it no doubtly the best of the both parts, the graphics are finer and the 4 campaigns 
 make it more intersting than the prvious part, i enjoyed the stories of 4 diffenrt individuals.............. i 
 rate it 9/10................ welldone guys! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: heaveyness
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 1, 2007 1:06 pm PT
Review:  When I got this title, I was stunned of the intensity and realistic graphics that were given to 
 me in the first Russian level and it kept getting more brutal. I am a fan of the easy gameplay 
 Call of duty gives you, unlike Medal of honor, you can shoot really easy. Aiming is not that difficult 
 and the guns are fast in loading and such. The missions you travel to are never really boring, 
 my favorite are the American missions, then the British and then the Russian missions. The single 
 player is fun, but its value is not very high. When you have finished the missions, you already 
 did everything in the levels, thow some levels offer you some variations of paths that you can 
 choose, like in the Normandy beach landing (my favorite :D) . A skilled fps-gamer can finish this 
 game in a short time, probably in 5 hours. It took me one week, with an hour play a day, that makes 
 my time 7 hours..... HELL YEAH!
  
  Call of duty does not give a basic storyline, but loose events of WW2 of the Americans, Britain 
 and Russians. When you play the levels, other computer controlled characters give you instructions 
 what to do, which is cool. You kinda relate to certain characters during the games, mostly during 
 the British campaigns. Yeah, that's it I suppose, not much of a storyline..
  
  Really good graphics in general, thow the ground is a bit blocky, and when you walk through smoke 
 or dust, it slows down the frame rate. sounds good to.
  
  Really great game, doesn't last all that long thow, because of the few levels available. If you 
 have played Call of duty 1, you will like this one cause of the even more intens gameplay and number 
 of artillery men. Realise that this game doesn't gives you a big single player, more of a multiplayer 
 experience. So if you don't like multiplayer gameplay, this game will be much fun for a week or 
 2, after that, it will start to get old (though playing a fast game of ss-killing stays fun forever 
 ;) !) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hamodizzo
Rating: 9.7
Date: Oct 4, 2006 7:13 pm PT
Review:  The MP is just as graphically intense! I have this game on the 360 &amp; PC, first had it when 
 it came out with the 360. Loved it so much I got it for PC for the online factor... It was nice 
 on the 360 but my boys tend to hog the console up so I took advantage of it on my PC... Just as 
 amazing! Can't doubt that it was the best at it's opening, I'm a huge WWII gamer so COD1, SOF2, 
 Wolfenstein, Vietnam, BF were all instant classics in my collection... I started off w/ CS, HL 
 but evolved into the more old classical setting FPS for the realism of past wars... A MUST PLAY! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pasirris
Rating: 6.3
Date: Oct 2, 2006 4:37 am PT
Review:  Okay overall Call of Duty 2 did okay. Graphics was okay and everything was okay. I liked that they 
 added more weapons and a better Russian story to it all. Call of Duty 2 really needs a longer single 
 player story. I finished the campaign in 15hours. Multiplayer is awesome, needs more of something 
 I can't quite explain. This game is best for any FPS fan out there. The gun sounds really need 
 to be worked. The Russian pistol sound the same as the American Colt. I don't know but there is 
 something REALLY missing from CoD 2. Also, I can't believe that CoD 3 is going to be on the X360 
 and not on the PC. This really is a downer. Overall, CoD 2 did okay. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mark_03
Rating: 8.6
Date: Sep 30, 2006 4:31 am PT
Review:  The game was ground breaking in single player and multiplayer modes. The graphics were hot and 
 gameplay was so realistic, the most realistic world war 2 shooter out their. The general length 
 of the campaign was short but tense. But theirs always multiplayer to come back to. The multplayer 
 is outstanding with heaps of maps and weapons to chose from. I highly reccomend this game to every 
 one as it just rocks. The major let down of the game is eneamy al as the tend to move and dodge 
 but seem very stupid. But this isn't all so bad as you have hundreds shooting at you at one time. 
 This fill in for the lack of eneamy intelligence. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: katwomansz
Rating: 8.3
Date: Sep 28, 2006 4:36 pm PT
Review:  I enjoyed the original Call of Duty and Its fantastic expansion United Offensive which really should 
 have been COD2.
  
  COD2 is more of the same on the level of an expansion pack.
  Nicer graphics than can be dialed down if needed. I have a Nvidia 6800GT and had to turn it down 
 for intense fights.
  And thats because COD2 IS intense. Very fast paced. I ran through the game in 3 days, that's 27 
 missions but some are very short compared to Previous COD and UO.
  
  You don't even have to waste time getting health packs.
  Just lay low and magic, you're healed 
 to kill again!
  You don't even have to save, good AutoSave system and quicksave.
  
  Since it was so quick I'm glad I didn't pay $50 for it.
  Its on sale now often at $30 New smoke 
 grenades are effective, as they are beautiful.
  Finally works with Logitech mouse buttons for prone and crouch or whatever you want, previous keyboard 
 buttons in series were tough.
  
  In this one you are more the leader, and your buddies are just cannon fodder. It has more of a 
 run and gun feel rather than hide and carefully snipe but maybe this is because of the lenient 
 healing system.
  
  Go ahead run in there and save the day. Don't worry about getting shot, you'll be fixed in no time!
 
  And then suddenly, it was over.....
  The credits recap some of the action you just went through which gives it the cinematic feel that 
 is lacking over the previous titles.
  
  Great use of chaotic battlefield sound. Best use of Surround sound I've seen in a game. But little 
 music this time around. They go for the realism.
  But this is a forgiving arcade shooter. If you want realism go for Red Orchestra. If you just want 
 some run and gun fun, pull out COD2 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Infernoply
Rating: 8.4
Date: Sep 24, 2006 11:28 am PT
Review:  Call of duty 2 (cod2) is the sequel to call of duty, a wartime fps. anyway lets get into the review
 
  
  cod2's gameplay sticks true to the fps formulae but does have some interesting mechanics. the game 
 had 3 campaign strands (english, american, russian) and there are about 5 mission in each strand. 
 theres mission are then broken down into parts and there are about 3 parts in each mission. so 
 overall there are about 45 different separate missions. in the game you can do all the normal things 
 like crouch etc but there are also some interesting and different things. one very obvious example 
 of this is that there is no health bar. instead when you are being shot red will fade in on both 
 sides and unless you get under cover and wait till the red has faded away then you will die. it 
 may not sound very good on paper but iy works very well in the game, as although unrealistic it 
 gets rid of healthpacks and armour. the shooting in cod2 is very satisfying and colourful. there 
 are assorted weapons in the game but they are brokne down into rifle, machine gun, sniper and pistol. 
 there are also frag grenades, flash grenades and smoke grenades. there are also a few vehicle levels 
 and these are pretty fun but there are very few of them
  
  the graphics in cod2 are not that impressive in my opinion. i know people will disagree witht this 
 but this is what i think. the guns do look quite nice but the textures on the levels arent amazing. 
 that said althought they could have been nicer they are not so bad that it ruins the game (far 
 from it)
  
  the sound in cod2 is very good. the guns sound great and produce realistic effects. the music is 
 good although it isnt played much. the only thing that lets it down is the repeated phrases that 
 all the armies use. they are great the first time you hear them but after a while they get repetitive
 
  
  the main campaign is reasonable lengthy as long as you dont play it on the easiest setting and 
 there is also a multiplayer mode. this can be extremylu good fun and i would recommend it any day. 
 there are a decent number of maps and overall its a very good experience
  
  so overall if your looking for a good wartime fps with good multiplayer and singleplayer then cod2 
 is the game for you 
::::::

::::::
UserName: haky2
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 21, 2006 4:21 am PT
Review:  Call of duty 2 is a perfect multiplayer and singleplayer game. This game is great. You really feel 
 yourself in the war, the singleplayer story is not to long, but if you want to finish the game 
 on every difficulties, its quite long. The multiplayer site of the game has no end. You just play 
 it, play it, play it. Online gaming with Call of Duty 2 is a great thing, you meet every new and 
 better player, every battle is a new battle, you dont play the same storyline hours. Great game, 
 try it, I think the best world war game on the Pc 
::::::

::::::
UserName: madskongen
Rating: 8.6
Date: Sep 19, 2006 2:18 pm PT
Review:  CoD 2 delivers better graphic, new weapons, alot more missions and much more..
  
  To keep it simple i'll write short about Good / Bad
  
  Good Stuff : + Good Graphics, and nice 
 models for most of the items and vehicles. + Great Storyline, where you take role of 3 or 4 (cant 
 remember) different soldiers during the missions in different locations of the war
  
  + Singleplayer offers many missions.
  
  + Instead of running around collecting health, you 
 have no health bar, only if you get hit enough without taking cover, and the screen blinks red 
 you die, take cover and wait for it to stop then jump back into action..
  
  + Sound is also great as its all authentic
  
  + AI, hmm well its not good or bad, id say in 
 between
  
  + You get to fight along side of soldiers most of the game, which is usually more fun than running 
 around solo, taking down the german empire on your own, which would obviously be impossible.. (unless 
 you are Jesus or something..)
  
  
  The Bad : - Not enough effects ( explosion wise) , no ragdolls, no blood effects
  
  - Needs 
 more variation to missions
  
  - Character models look alittle odd at times.
  
  - Weapon sounds could have a stronger output.
  
  - Would be nice with some cut scenes.
  
 
  - Multiplayer could be better, ( Getting Admiral mod will make it better though) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: behony
Rating: 8.3
Date: Sep 19, 2006 11:06 am PT
Review:  i had fun with this game.
  
  the BAD: gets kinda boring after a while. not much diversity
  
  the GOOD: graphics are awsome! 
 gameplay is exciting and realistic. sound is superb.
  
  if you like WW2 games this is one of the best. you can play as the russians, the english and the 
 americans in all sorts of battles in the europian theater. so much fun to play and it makes you 
 feel like you are there. it does however get a bit monotonouse after a while. each level is kinda 
 the same. throw grenades, kill germans and blow up tanks. thats about it. there are some side missions 
 like planting explosives, deactivating communications stuff like that butt it could use a bit more.
 
  defenantly give it a go it is well worth it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pl600
Rating: 7.3
Date: Sep 19, 2006 1:36 am PT
Review:  Allright, let's leave behind great graphics and well-created atmosphere. No one stands against 
 it, so let's just have a clear and wise view on what game offers. There are 2 very important things 
 to learn before buying COD2: 1) This game takes it's best from medal of honor series (checked by 
 me. i'm a MOH fan) . Everything new isn't so new at all, this game is a compilation of other WWII 
 games, especially MOH: PA. The only fresh thing in the gameplay is some interresting (i haven't 
 said good) changes in the game mechanics. I'm talking about the behaviour of the bullets. We all 
 know that in many FPS there is such thing as Speed of a bullet . You must shoot a target a bit 
 before the target reaches the place which we have in our crosshairs. It's ok if a bit is allmost 
 nothing, but when a bit means 3/4 of a second, it's difficult not to throw your mouse into the 
 rubbish can because of often misses. But actually it's not your fault. This game needs to be adopted 
 to, and it's a waste of time. Another strange thing about the gameplay (it also connects with the 
 second part) is that crosshairs dissapear when you move. So if you like completing games in a rush 
 style (so am i sometimes) you'll need to learn how to shoot without it. Another waste of time. 
 2) The atmospere is really important for WWII games, and COD is famous for it's atmosphere. It's 
 true, but trying to create a perfect atmosphere they've forgotten about the music (music also involves 
 atmosphere!) and made a strange script system. NOTHING HAPPENS if you don't follow the strict and 
 straight way the developers created. Just nothn. Your teammates aren't even teammates, enemies 
 aren't actually enemies, your mission is just to walk from point A to point B, completeting easy 
 tasks sometimes. Because this game is one large script, your friends die only when the script tells 
 them to die and the new one appears from nowhere, replacing dead one, creating the atmosphere of 
 crew, of global war. Enemies are a background too. No, i don't mean that they don't kill you, injure 
 you or your teammates, but they also die and respawn just to CREATE A PERFECT atmosphere. It's 
 a dangerous and not the only way to do that (remember medal of honor) ) . Dissapearing crosshairs 
 is also a part of this plan: erasing interface makes the war more realistic. But you mustn't forget 
 about the gameplay cause it's the most inportant thing in the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: L33T_HitmaN
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 19, 2006 12:04 am PT
Review:  This is a game full of killings and tanks and all that army stuff so if you like to kill people 
 like germans japanese people or anyone like that i recommend this game its definitely a 10 on my 
 scale. Do not i repeat do not listen to anyone that rates this game less than a 9 and if they do 
 tell me who they are and ill deal with them. As you should already know this is a game published 
 by activision and like all activision games it is the best game i have played yet (apart from tetris) 
 so you must get it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DR_RISK
Rating: 8.9
Date: Sep 21, 2006 11:51 pm PT
Review:  This is a game full of killings and tanks and all that army stuff so if you like to kill people 
 like germans japanese people or anyone like that i recommend this game its definitely a 10 on my 
 scale. Do not i repeat do not listen to anyone that rates this game less than a 9 and if they do 
 tell me who they are and ill deal with them. As you should already know this is a game published 
 by activision and like all activision games it is the best game i have played yet (apart from tetris) 
 so you must get it.
  
  This review may be copied but please give credit to me, DR_RISK 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DanX1013
Rating: 8.9
Date: Sep 15, 2006 10:35 pm PT
Review:  Ever since Call of Duty for the PC, I have been in love with the series. I have played and liked 
 every single COD game and this is no exception.
  SINGLE PLAYER
  Single player is amazing. It is probably the best part of the game despite the Multiplayer being 
 loads of fun. You begin with Russian, then hit British, then off to France as an American. As a 
 Russian you fight in the streets of Stalingrad during a harsh winter. The snow effects and lighting 
 during these enviornments are astonishing. I enjoy the British campaign the most. It takes place 
 in the desert and has the most exciting, tense, and thrilling moments in the game. Wether it be 
 holding the line, commanding a tank, or charging across the desert, the British campaign is the 
 coolest part of the game. The American campaign is in France, D-day stuff. Boring right?? NOPE! 
 You attack and scale the cliffs of Point Du Hoc, a whole new perspective on the D-day invasions. 
 As you scale it becomes an almost movie like presentation. Guns, explosions, people falling off 
 the cliff makes for a very cinematic approach to this battle.
  MULTIPLAYER
  If you have played Call of Duty 1, then you know the multiplayer. They took out vehicles like they 
 had in UO, but the fast pace, action packed, explosive filled that you have come to know and love 
 is still there. Overall, except for maps, MP is the same.
  
  Basically, this is a really great WWII shooter. It is very satisfying and fun to shoot a running 
 Nazi Also all the graphic points I have made, remember I changed the settings to DirectX9 instead 
 of 7. This makes a huge differance with minimal change in lag. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bumbayay
Rating: 9.7
Date: Sep 11, 2006 4:15 pm PT
Review:  Playing this game gives you an intense feeling and makes you want to go on and on. Great graphics 
 and sound really helps you get into the game, especially when you have a trillion bullets flying 
 all around you. Something that this game could have improved on is not having battle after battle. 
 Every 2 minutes after a big battle you would have another army just waiting for you. I'm not saying 
 this is a bad thing, all I'm saying is just lighten up a bit so you don't get bored of doing the 
 same thing over and over. And another thing, why couldn't we drive more vehicles? You could only 
 drive the tank and only drive it once in one level. Other then that, this games is worth your money 
 if you like shooters. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hwoarang12
Rating: 8.8
Date: Nov 14, 2006 7:24 am PT
Review:  Call of Duty 2 is a first person shooter. The action takes place in World War II.
  In CoD2 you have three campaigns. The Russian campaign, English campaign and in my opinion the 
 best campaign in the game - American.
  
  First the graphics: Ok. Call of Duty 2 has got really fantastic graphics. Infinity Ward used bamp 
 mapping, specular lighting and real time shadows.
  It means that all textures in the game were mapping. It sounds cool and it looks cool but, in my 
 opinion this is not the next generation game! A lot of games on Pc have better graphics than Call 
 of Duty 2. Of course the snow, rain and fog are rended beautifully. The environment is looking 
 very good.
  
  Sound: Call of Duty 2 has got great sound. The weapons noises, environment noises and you comrades 
 noises are super. The music brings to us the real atmosphere of the WWII.
  
  Gameplay: Gameplay is fantastic! It's not the next generation, but it's cool. Missions are not 
 boring and believe me, You will have a lot of work to do.
  
  Overall CoD2 on Pc is a really good game and everyone should play it, but just as I said, this 
 is not the next generation game in my opinion. Not graphics. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FPSGunnerDude
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 16, 2007 10:39 pm PT
Review:  Single Player - very fun and exiting, with good replayability factor. Graphics are great and AI 
 is great. Play is addicting with the new system of health regeneration and facing many more enemies, 
 although this can also get a tad repetitive. Simply one of the best single player FPS experiences 
 out there
  
  Multiplayer - Somewhat disappointing as a huge fan of the original COD and COD UO. There are less 
 gametypes (most people just play CTF or TDM) . The Headquarters game in this one is not as good 
 as the Headquarters of the original COD, which I consider one of the best gametypes I had ever 
 played.
  
  Bottom Line - Single player is great; Multiplayer is mainly just a 100 mph frag fest, but still 
 good. If you want more gametypes, and more teamplay, and more interesting multiplayer stick with 
 the originals and I also recommend Day Of Defeat Source.
  
  **edit. upon getting into and getting used to this game, it's much better than I rated. It's got 
 one of the best multiplayers ever. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Floppy_Hunter
Rating: 8.6
Date: Sep 10, 2006 11:22 am PT
Review:  Call Of Duty 2, following on from call of duty and its expansion, is another top notch game. Call 
 Of Duty is really, the same as call of duty (original) but with updated graphics, and new maps.
 
  
  The graphics on call of duty 2, are outstanding, but many people can only run it in Directx 8 graphics.
 
  My computer spec -
  2.6 p4 HT
  1gb ram
  6600 nvidia
  
  I can run it in all extra, in DX8. As soon as I stick it in DX9, everything starts to lag up.
 
  
  The call of duty 2 multiplayer is a lot better than its single player, with over 4000 servers, 
 and 1000 players, their is a lot to play with. With great gametypes. Although call of duty 2, miss's 
 out on the great call of duty gametype BEL (behind enemy lines) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: grant117
Rating: 9.3
Date: Sep 6, 2006 6:51 pm PT
Review:  this game draws you into it you feel as if your actually there. unlike other games i felt sad when 
 a teamate died i didnt go on random tk killing sprees for fun. the russians are the most intense 
 you feel obligated to kill the germans and protect your homeland even though you are not really 
 there. i have actually discovered myself sweating and cursing the germans in this game for the 
 brutality they showed to my soldiers. this in short is the best world war 2 game out there. PERIOD. 
 the multiplayer is just as immersive as the game and offers you a variety of weapons and positions 
 but mostly the people who play this game help each other they protect each other a trait i have 
 found almost unique to this game if you truly like a sense of comradery in your game you should 
 pick this up. even if you are a casual gamer this is a must have for anyone. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tau1234
Rating: 8.9
Date: Sep 6, 2006 5:29 pm PT
Review:  this game is simple awsome, the graphics are superb and the realism of the game just makes you 
 want to cry. I think the only bad thing is a health bar, instead, u get a shot a couple of times 
 then ur screen goes red and ur told too "take cover"!! i think it would be better to have the standard 
 health bar so you know if you can rush into a german trench lol, but then again that would take 
 away the realism, so i guess its what ever floats ur boat. if you cant decide, CoD one or 2, i 
 suggest number one first, the multiplayer is better and you can get the basics on that first. CoD 
 has a much better single player though, i find. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Woody121
Rating: 9.4
Date: Sep 6, 2006 2:30 am PT
Review:  Wow. Call of Duty 2 has to be one of THE best WW11 FPSes. Absolutly stunning gameplay with amazing 
 realism. Blast your way through enemy lines and take out snipers hiding in buildings, machine gunners 
 and plow through smoke grenades and find yourself face to face with an enemy and quickly press 
 the shift key. (gun smash ;) ) . The Single player game is absolutly fantastic and will be hard to 
 top. But single player is not the best part. Oh no. It's multiplayer. If I had to rate the fun 
 I had on multiplayer it would be 50/10. Yes. It's that good. Multiplayer contains a variety of 
 great maps and many different types of gameplay, such as Team Death match, Deathmatch, Capture 
 the flag, Search and destroy, etcetra. Having a team try to annihilate the other is such fun. Pick 
 your forte, sniping? Take the scoped le enfield. Crouch behind your lines and pick off stragglers 
 ;) . Or maybe you're a bolt action weapon user. Grab the kar98 and show off your amazing skills 
 at picking people off from distance without a scope. Or maybe you just want to grab a machine gun 
 and just take out some people. That's fun too ;) . Overall CoD2 is one of the most amazing games 
 I have ever played and I would HIGHLY recommend buying it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LastIsFirst
Rating: 9.8
Date: Sep 5, 2006 2:32 am PT
Review:  OMG! Reinstalled to play the singleplayercampaign one more more time.
  I'm still numb, why isn't every game like this? We've all bought frustrating games that you'll 
 only sit through bacause you've spent the money and now you'll want to get your moneys worth. This 
 is the most intense offline shooter I've ever played. There are no time to count your blessings 
 while you wait the action to build. And though it takes approx. ten hours to complete, the hours 
 just rush you by. Compared to a game like MOH Pacific Assault, COD2 owns big time, again and again. 
 Compared to the previous COD and its expansion (Which were very good indeed) , this one rocks your 
 socks off. I don't know if this game is available at a low price somewhere? But it dosn't matter, 
 cause you want this one. Can't say much about the multiplayer, I have only played it like 50 hours 
 or so. And I'm highly addicted to the Battlefield series, and this is very different from them 
 online, so...!
  But if you've been looking for a good singleplayer FPS, this is the one you want!
  3 games I 
 liked very much besides this (For comparing taste gamewise)
  
  Half life 2
  Far Cry
  F. E. A. R. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Morphieous
Rating: 9.3
Date: Sep 4, 2006 4:01 pm PT
Review:  Call Of Duty 2 (PC)
  
  Introduction
  
  Most World War games we have seen so far have not been all that great. They seem to lack the dept 
 that first person shooters are supposed to have. But the COD series really made you feel like you 
 were actually there in the war, holding that rifle. Call Of Duty 2 however, brings this same experience 
 as its previous installments and also so much more. 
  
  Brief History on Call Of Duty
  
  When the first of this series was released it did so well because it was different from many 
 other shooters. Gamers everywhere loved this game alot and wanted more from the developers. So 
 they decided to make an expansion pack of the game. This causing United Offensive to be released 
 not to later on. The expansion of COD did well also, bringing better graphics than the first installment 
 but the same deep gameplay. 
  
  But even with these two classic games released so far, gamers still longed for more. They wanted 
 another Call Of Duty game to add to their list. Thus COD 2 being released. And what a good job 
 they did on this action packed World War shooter.
  
  Gameplay
  
  In Call Of Duty 2 there are 3 different campaigns, these include the Russians, Americans and the 
 British campaigns. Playing as different sides really adds to the gameplay and really tells you 
 the story from all perspectives.
  
  Because you are able to play as different campaigns many weapons are available for your disposal. 
 And how could you play this game without all those lovely antique weapons? Everything from the 
 old pistols to automatic weapons they are all here. 
  
  But the game designers didn't stop there. They seem to go all out to make you feel like you are 
 there holding the gun. They did this by making your character tilt to the side when you reload 
 your weapon, giving you the feeling that someone was really loading the gun. This is so even with 
 running, climbing and melee attacks. 
  
  With all these weapons, melee attacks and all these sorts of movements I've talked about, you maybe 
 wondering how are the controls are they difficult? Well they are standard (WSAD being movement 
 keys) and if you have played a FPS (first person shooter) before you will have no problem here 
 at all.
  
  Another great thing I loved in this game was there they took out the health packs. No you will 
 not die quickly. They put in this recovery system where when you are shot you get injured and you 
 have to get to cover. This then giving you time to heal and get back into battle. This takes away 
 the hassle of always looking for health packs as in the first Call Of Duty.
  
  This game however, is not only about a single player experience. It also rocks in the multiplayer 
 universe. Playing whether online or on LAN it gives one of the best multiplayer experience yet. 
 This adds tons of points to the replay value of the game. Meaning that after you have completed 
 the game you can still have fun with your friends or with people around the world as well.
  
  Visuals
  
  Upon installing this game I knew the graphics would be great. I sure wasn't 
 disappointed, from the lovely effect of grenades blowing up to the clothing on soldiers; it all 
 looks great. The designers and developers really did a great job here.
  
  Sound
  
  World War music sounds boring doesn't it? Well you are quite wrong, the music found in this game 
 totally adds to the whole experience. But not only is the music great but so is the sound effects. 
 Ranging from gunfire, to grenades to even footsteps they are all well done. They even got the actual 
 weapons and recorded the sounds of it. So when you fire a weapon that is how it sounded years ago 
 in real life. That is how dedicated this team was to really bringing you a true World War experience 
 in Call Of Duty 2.
  
  Overall
  
  Call Of Duty 2 is a truly awesome game. It has amazing visuals, tight gameplay and wonderful sound 
 effects and music. COD 2 to me is how first person shooters should be made. This title is a definite 
 pick up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Goober_billions
Rating: 8.2
Date: Sep 4, 2006 11:33 am PT
Review:  Just like the Original, whic normally would dissappoint people, but in this case, its just what 
 you'd want! Just like the other ones only better graphics, and a different Campaigns. This one 
 takes place in Egypt. The Multiplayer is just like the original as well, which is fun.... alot of 
  
  
  Okay, wheres 100? lets go already........... Now? 
 no, okay maybe after this little sentence.... I wonder if periods even count. Yeah, so if you liked 
 the original, get this one too. Becuase its fun.... alot of fun and good graphics. Like the guns 
 are cool. It is cool, it is neat, it is fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mbouchey
Rating: 9.6
Date: Sep 4, 2006 10:09 am PT
Review:  This is an increadibly amazing game. First of all, the graphics are superb, right up there with 
 Half Life 2 and Doom 3. It just looks, and for that matter sounds, so realistic, it just enveloped 
 me in to the game. The single player is amazing. After I played the first Russian mission in the 
 first game, I never thought I would play a single player of the same caliber again... then this 
 game came out. Every mission is intense and enthralling. Just like in the first game, you really 
 get attached to your character and your squad members, which you dont often find in a shooter. 
 The idea of no health seemed sketchy to me at first, but it works so much better than the health 
 bar on the first game. It was a brilliantly revolutionary idea right there. The interface is a 
 little different than the first one, and that takes a little getting used to, but in general, its 
 the same. The controls aren't any different than any other shooter, so it is easy to pick up. The 
 multiplayer is just as good. Be very careful about hackers though, there are a lot, and be careful 
 with your computer, some of the hackers take it a bit too far. Look for two things, if someone 
 on line is using other people's screen names to chat, or if your character is acting eratic, like 
 you cant control him all the way, exit the server, that means someone has hacked in to your computer 
 through the server and you need to get out. This has happened to me twice, so just be careful. 
 Other than those loosers who hack online, the game is awesome. It is a bit on the expensive side, 
 but with Call of Duty 3 coming out, I dont think the price will stay up. This is definately worth 
 buying. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Fman12
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 2, 2006 4:20 pm PT
Review:  This is the most amazing game ever made. The graphics are top of the line and gameplay is awsome. 
 Story mode is awsome its the the best story mode yet to come out from the Call of Duty series. 
 I love the gameplay it is easy, but if your online your in for a challenge. The online gameplay 
 is amazing, but there are alot of hackers. the new maps are awsome. My new favorite map (tied with 
 brecourt) is toujan. I can't stop playing it it is just so amazing. This game is the true definition 
 of addictive. I love it so much. It is a pretty hard game but it doesn't matter. I love this game 
 and will always love it. It is better than Call of Duty 3 if you ask me. So if you are looking 
 for the most amazing game ever made this is a must. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AgRyan
Rating: 9.1
Date: Sep 1, 2006 8:20 pm PT
Review:  this game is probably one of the best games that i own (and believe me, i own alot...) i love fps, 
 and this is definatly one of my favorites. the level design is pretty linear, however not so much 
 so that there is only 1 path to victory. theres multiple paths/roads/directions that you can take 
 to accomplish a mission, however they all lead to pretty much the same place (with a few exceptions) 
 the graphics in this game could certainly be a little better, however they are definatly good enough 
 to maintain the myth that you are in a ww2 battle. the single player game is pretty good, it has 
 a nice story line, although i just wish i didnt have to beat the russian and the british capaign 
 before playing as a us soldier. the russian part was very fun, however the british story (set in 
 the desert) (and mostly in tanks) got extremely repetitive and boring. the multiplayer mode is 
 a blast though, and its where i got most of my enjoyment from the game. theres not too many cheaters, 
 and the games get pretty big and intese quickly, and its a game you can step right into (not a 
 high learning curve for online play) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pfasse
Rating: 8.7
Date: Sep 1, 2006 2:43 pm PT
Review:  As a fan of RPGs I am always surprised when a shooter can hold my attention for more then a few 
 hours, Call of Duty 2 is one of those games that took me by surprise and totally hooked me from 
 the start.
  
  You begin the game at various chapters as one of the three Allies in the joint attack against the 
 German forces, and play as three main characters for several chapters at a time. While the game 
 play is very fast, and action packed, it doesn't leave you wondering where the challenge is, you 
 need to use tactics to stay alive, whether it's just ducking behind some debris and firing supressive 
 fire so your comrades can lob grenades, or crossing a huge divide of open space by chucking a smoke 
 grenade for cover, you will find new ways to over come each obstacle everytime you play.
  
  Most of the action is through scripted events, so while the enemy AI isn't exactly the brightest 
 all the time, the scripted nature of their actions, like ducking behind barrels, then as you advance, 
 falling back to a better firing position, will keep you guessing.
  
  On the AI, the only reason I am giving this game a tilt of 7 is because the game lacks any real 
 replay quality in that the difficulty levels don't really increase the difficulty beyond letting 
 you get hit less. The AI doesn't react differently, or smarter for that matter and saw myself blowing 
 through the early levels fairly quickly at it's most difficult. This doesn't detract from the excelent 
 pacing and action of the game.
  
  To sum it up, after playing this game, I immeadiatly went out to see why this game was so good 
 they had to make a sequel buy picking up part one and it's expansions. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dave_gene_pico
Rating: 7.8
Date: Aug 31, 2006 6:17 pm PT
Review:  Call of Duty 2 is the sequel to the hit Activision game, Call of Duty, and was very hyped up and 
 expected to be as great as the first in the series. I believe that although the game is great, 
 it wasn't nearly as good as the first, or United Offensive.
  
  The single player campaign works differently this time around, working more historically. You play 
 battles as they actually happened over World War Two, starting with the Russian front in 1941, 
 and eventually all the way to the end in 1945, playing as a British, Russian, and American soldier 
 on all of the fronts of WWII. It is challenging and the AI will keep you on your toes.
  
  The presentation of the game is hands-down amazing. Even on medium to low graphics, the game looks 
 and sounds great. The soldiers look great, the guns and tanks look downright amazing, and the environments 
 are well-made and elaborate. You can duck behind a broken wall, a destroyed vehicle, or a cloud 
 of smoke from your smoke grenades.
  
  Multiplayer is also very amazing, having a large share of excellent servers and well-made mods 
 for the game. Although, the learning curve is hard if you're new to First-Person Shooters, as many 
 players online are hardcore soldiers. However, the only way to get better is to practice, practice, 
 practice!
  
  Although, the game seems to be harder to mod than the original Call of Duty, or United Offensive. 
 It has a share of frame per second issues, glitches and bugs, but have been recently fixed it newer 
 patches.
  
  The one thing that bothers me about Call of Duty 2, is the fact that gameplay-wise, it just feel 
 likes Call of Duty 1, with better graphics. Call of Duty: United Offensive offered things like 
 deployable machine guns, and sprinting, and Call of Duty 2 was missing with all the things United 
 Offensive added, and essentially feels like the first game. However, some players despised the 
 addition of sprinting, tanks, jeeps and deployable machine guns, so it all comes down to the preference 
 of the player.
  
  Overall, however, it is a solid shooter and an excellent addition to the Call of Duty series. If 
 you want a great shooter to have loads of fun on, this is one of those games that should be recommended 
 to all shooter fans. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: andilosha
Rating: 8.8
Date: Aug 30, 2006 10:18 am PT
Review:  This is a good game, really it is a good game. But it is just too similiar to Call of Duty, the 
 first game, in fact nothing big happened! It has some small changes, OF coarse, like the new Porche 
 911, it is different in fact, but you can't tell unless you have both to compare them. I was hopping 
 to see some military cutscenes, special effects, nice dessined characters and a story at least, 
 but not. It still is nice, but it could be better. If Call of Duty 3 works on those details, Call 
 of Duty can get to a whole new dimmension. Military multiplayer modes are always better than single 
 players. If you play alone, don't get this one! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: usy911
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 30, 2006 4:46 am PT
Review:  mind blowing action, dont even let u take 1min rest, just constant action. man this is my type of 
 game. i think its 100% better than ea war franchise. i think its one of the best ww2 franchises. game 
 is rocking from start to end. some levels lke point ad hoc is just mind blowing. when u climb the 
 mountain up and bullets & bombs raining on u it looks very scary. my god. British campaign is also 
 very good full of action & same goes for russian one. game is true masterpiece. game has pretty god 
 melee attacks too. game dosent have health packs. when u r hit just go into cover & then back in 
 action. game direction is very good. this game deserve 10/10 . just cant wait for cod3. person who 
 loves war games .than this your game. just go for it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jefvhees_basic
Rating: 8.9
Date: Aug 28, 2006 2:10 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay: Verry solid! It plays like a WWII shooter. The action is very intense! You just feel 
 like you're in the battles! The lack of health bars is a big improvement! The weapons are fun to 
 shoot! You know some solid gameplay here.
  
  Graphics: Nice and up to date. Nothing very special just nice to look at without all the blingbling. 
 I couldn't run it at max settings but it was still beautifful!
  
  Sound: The weapons sound hard and cold, just like they should. The people's screams are absloutely 
 good. But hey just say the same thing just once too often. But thats just a minor point.
  
  Value: Here is the biggest problem: Altough the level design and all was solid. I just felt something 
 was missing. Lets take a look at the OMAHA mission. That was probably the worst mission i ever 
 played in a WWII shooter. Just look at MOH! Now that ws how you do OMAHA! As fore all the missions, 
 i just feel they could have just been a little more, just a little.
  
  Revieuwers tilt: Well, this is a FPS. I'm a more 3PS fan and a huge SPORE fan. But i really got 
 the feel this game was awesome.
  Ive played:
  MoH, RTCW, COD, BIA. I think i can have a good opinion about WWII shooters. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: selek_99
Rating: 8.1
Date: Aug 28, 2006 1:40 pm PT
Review:  When I stood in line.... for 7 hours..... picking up my Xbox 360, I chose this game because it 
 there was a demo at the local wal-mart that you could play around with and CoD2 looked absolutely 
 amazing. It is definately something that microsoft can be proud to put on the Xbox 360 launch list. 
 For a launch game, it is an excellent choice. The opening scenes of the game show off the awesome 
 graphics and cool twist on the WWII storyline that drags you into the game and keeps you going. 
 My only complaint about the game is that my 360 kind of lagged during multiplay and that most of 
 those games (when they weren't lagging) just weren't that exciting to begin with. Most online gamers 
 gave in to sniping from a great distance which brought me much frustration as I kept having to 
 respawn after being one-shotted even when i thought I was behind cover! Fun game overall, just 
 not much replay value. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bernie_chiu
Rating: 8.7
Date: Aug 23, 2006 8:39 pm PT
Review:  This game becomes quite a disappointment to everyone. In the past few years, many WWII games has 
 been created. Call of Duy 2 simply shows another "classic" features and history that pulls the 
 conservative cognition out of our knowledge in Call of Duty series. Although it is not an revolution 
 comparing to other WWII games on the game market, the well-organized game-play and intense battlefield 
 give us a realistic environment in the game. However, many things are limited like tank usage in 
 the game and large range of weapon which could be used. The story mode is awesome, but on-line 
 playing disgrace many players. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: andrea120
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 22, 2006 12:04 pm PT
Review:  coolest game on the planet there will never be a better game
  
  
  
  best best best best best best best best best best best best best best best best best best best 
 best best best best best best best best best best best best best best best best best best best 
 best best best best best best best best best best best best best best best best best best best 
 best best best best best best best best best best best best best best best best best best best 
 best best best best best best best best best best best best best best best best best best best 
 best best best best best best best best best best best best best best best best best best best 
 best best best best best best best best best best best best best best best best best best best 
 best best best best best best best best best best best best best best best best best best best 
 best best best best best best best best best best best best best best best best best best best 
 best best best best best best best best best 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sharpshot2002
Rating: 7
Date: Aug 20, 2006 5:39 pm PT
Review:  The game it self is just so dam good but I think that the SP modes was way to short. But the online 
 game play makes up for that with so many server and game type you can play the game and just forget 
 the time. The graphics make the game really amazing EVEN the interruption with the AI but they 
 has been times I just want to blow one of the allying AIs head off as they seem to get in the 
 way time to time.
  
  I hope you will enjoy this game as I did and dont forget to try it online.
  
  SharpShot. gif
 
  Have Fun And Good Luck. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: exgamer4life
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 18, 2006 9:49 pm PT
Review:  this game is truly the greatest i mean it takes u through the battlegrounds that happend in the 
 wars like the russian and american and british i got to say it was real cool it was a real nice 
 gift from my friend and i am greatful he bought it for me and u guys should get this game to it 
 is really worth the wait and rush it has real good graphics and the controls are easy to figure 
 out ,my favorite thing is the online gaming u challenge people online on ctf and deathmaches and 
 u get to select your wep and player 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FunkWeasel
Rating: 9.7
Date: Aug 17, 2006 9:17 am PT
Review:  If you'd heard bad things about countless WW2 shooters, of how they have bland missions or multiplayer, 
 you would never here the words Call of Duty 2. CoD2 is the most realistic, most intense, and most 
 fun WW2 FPS ever. To start off, the game is beautiful, taking full advantage of dx9, this is one 
 of the top 5 best looking games eveer, behind FEAR and Oblivion. CoD2 will eat your machine though, 
 but you can still have a good experience with older weaker cards (it runs fine on an x300) and with 
 the option of dx7 support, almost everyone with a computer built after 2003 can play. This game's 
 best feature is probably the sound, as it sounds just as gritty and intense as what WW2 would've 
 sounded like. You'll get goosebumps when you crank up the surround sound as you approach the shore 
 of normandy in a U-boat. The single-player is pretty lengthy, It'll last you 10-12 hours depending 
 on the difficulty level. But what will keep you coming back is the game's multiplayer, supporting 
 up to 64 players In all the CoD game types you know and love, with the Behind Enemy Lines mode 
 replaced with Headquarters mode. The game's large roster of weapons from semi-automatic rifles 
 to submachineguns and varied maps that suit either close or long range combat, CoD2 will entertain 
 you for a long time. Plus with a steady mod base, expect to see an endless supply of interesting 
 and varied mod maps and game types. To put it short, If you want a realistic and lengthy FPS with 
 good multiplayer, CoD2 is your game. But if you want any type of game for that matter, CoD2 will 
 provide you with hours upon hours of entertainment. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AKASchwanksta
Rating: 8.9
Date: Aug 13, 2006 8:00 pm PT
Review:  In a world of bland WWII games, Call of Duty 2 stands out for its ability to really imerse you 
 in the WWII experience. To make it easier on the eyes, I will highlight a part of the game and 
 describe it.
  
  Gameplay- The gameplay is nothing extremely innovative for a WWII, however, its sound and visuals 
 really enhance it to something of beauty. You play as either the Americans (In france, among other 
 places) , the Russians (in the ruthless defense of Russia) , and the British (in the battle against 
 Rommel, among other places) . The change of roles is great, though there are no noticeable changes 
 in the way the different armies play, the surroundings, weapons, and people have their own personalities. 
 What a really like is the full scale sense of the game. There are some missions where you really 
 feel like you are about to shoot your way through hell's highway. To be realistic, one must play 
 on either the hard or very hard setting, just because the amount of damage able to be taken in 
 normal difficulty is very unrealistic. Though many seem to criticize this game's lack of a damage 
 meter, I think it creates a healthy gaming enviorment. It actually influences taking cover, rather 
 than allowing you go in for big rushes and then just get a med pack after it. 
  
  The AI is relatively good, but they seem to not have much individual thought and most of the action 
 is scripted. However, it is nice to see that they properly utilize their grenades, and even more 
 satisfying to watch one of your comrades throw it back at the Germans. When you enter a large battlefield 
 and you are advancing by way of smoke grenades and support fire, you will suddenly find that you 
 feel like you are really out their on the battlefield. The weapons are realistic and fun to use. 
 There is a lot of variety in the sort of objectives you have too. Sometimes you'll be defending 
 a point, sometimes getting a good angle and picking off Germans rushing up the hill you just overtook. 
 In gameplay respects, it adds nothing really new, but improves on everything all those WWII shooters 
 left out and does them really well. 
  
  Graphics- I tried not to infuse them for the review, but for this game, the graphics and gameplay 
 really go hand in hand. The visuals simply make everything look like it's on a tremendous scale. 
 They really wanted to go with a cinematic feel for the game, and i think they achieved it brilliantly. 
 For example, in one mission, you will arrive on the beach while your friends are being shot down 
 one by one, then, just as you exit the boat, a big shell explodes near you and sends you face first 
 on the beach. Your hearing goes out and all you can see is thousands of other Americans rushing 
 out of their boats, being shot down constantly. Suddenly, a face appears above you and drags you 
 to you feet. The guy tells you that you must climb up the cliff and pick off the snipers. This 
 turns into a perilous climb up a hill as your allies fall off, almost knocking you down the rope. 
 
  
  This kind of thing really immerses you into the world. Other than that, the player models look 
 great, however, some of the buildings could look better. A lot of the battlegrounds are very interesting 
 and authentic looking too.
  
  Sound- Well, just like graphics, the sound really enhances the gameplay. It just brings the whole 
 "mayhem" feel to the next level. If you have a good sound card and some surround speakers, the 
 sound is nothing short of spectacular. You'll hear your allies shooting behind you, shouting out 
 things like, "POTATO MASHER, watch out". The sense of mayhem of hearing is enhanced by the German 
 troops screaming in German, Americans and Brits using slang to talk about their enemies. It really 
 just makes you feel like you're on the battlefield. There is also a little section when there is 
 an artiliery strike, as you suddenly go deaf and feel rumblings as the artilery digs up your position. 
 You have to run for cover and once you get there, you'll see the screen shaking and the ground 
 kicking up and the erie rumbling of the strike. This is just another way that the sound and graphics 
 enhance the gameplay. 
  
  Value- The battles are so much fun that you'll keep on going back to them for a few runs, taking 
 different routes on the battlefield and trying the endless amount of guns. Other than that though, 
 there aren't many achievements or rewards.
  
  Multiplayer- The multiplayer is a good deal of fun, it has a good pace and it is very active community. 
 I myself would prefer CSS, but that's just me.
  
  All in all, this a great game for just about anyone, though it doesn't really encorporate any other 
 genres, i can say with certainty that this a must have for any FPS fan. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: razza95
Rating: 9.7
Date: Aug 13, 2007 5:48 am PT
Review:  I'll deal with Single Player first: the story is fantastic. You follow three campaigns, the Soviet 
 Union trying to defend Stalingrad, the British attacking North Africa and France, and the Americans, 
 through the D-Day landings, France and on to Berlin. In those campaigns, you play the role of certain 
 soldiers, and at the start of each mission you get their view on it. Anyway... the graphics are 
 brilliant, and you don't need a particularly fast computer to run it on high quality. The smoke, 
 explosion and blood effects are simply awesome. The sound is also fantastic. It feels like surround 
 sound so you can tell where your enemies are and also hear artillery strikes that are far from 
 you. The gameplay also follows the 'great' pattern. The use of cover is very realistic, seeing 
 as almost anything can be used, and the AI knowledge is also good. And bashing an enemy with your 
 rifle is possibly the most fun way to kill them ever.
  
  And now Multiplayer: again, superb. There are lots of different modes to choose from, Deathmatch, 
 Team Deathmatch, Capture the Flag etc etc. Kill-Cam is also featured, and while it shows you march 
 to your death, it also answers the annoying question of Where the hell was he? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Or-G
Rating: 9.8
Date: Aug 11, 2006 8:58 pm PT
Review:  Introduction
  Call of Duty 2 takes place during World War 2. There are three different campaigns in this game: 
 Russian, English, and American. In the beginning, you only have the Russian campaign open to you 
 (which is my favorite btw) , but as you progress, somewhere halfway through the Russian campaign, 
 you unlock the English campaign, and so forth.
  The Russian campaign takes place in Moscow, Russia. The English campaign in Egypt and then France 
 and the American campaign in Normandy (D-Day) , and then France also.
  
  There are four difficulties in this game, ranging from very easy to elite.
  
  Gameplay 10/10
 
  The gameplay was one of the things that I enjoyed most about this game. The games feeling felt 
 quite good and balanced. Walking, running, jumping, etc. all seemed quite realistic, and just as 
 you would expect a good FPS to play out.
  
  One of the new features in this game, and my personal favourite, was that there was no health bar. 
 Instead, as you got hurt the screen would become redder and redder as the damage increased and 
 your character will start to grunt and pant. If you continued to take a lot of damage you would 
 die. So as you get shot, take cover somewhere away from danger and wait until your vision clears 
 and youre good to go again. Unfortunately the enemy also has the same health system so it can 
 get quite frustrating, seeing the fact that they recharge all the time.
  
  Another new feature of this game is that you may now climb over ledges and obstacles of that sort. 
 I was very pleased with that, because I hate jumping and find it quite unrealistic , in games anyway. 
 It also made my life much easier. You can also go from prone, crouch and standing positions in 
 the game, and the fact that they locked and you didnt have to keep on holding the button was another 
 plus.
  
  Your weapons varied from the regular rifles, pistols, and sub-machine guns and all felt quite realistic 
 in terms of shooting and the like. You also have the ability to whack the crap out of enemies with 
 your gun, so thats always fun. There are two types of grenades, one is the regular frag grenade 
 that explodes and kills a bunch of people, the other is a smoke grenade, which can be extremely 
 useful to obscure the view of snipers and machine gun nests.
  
  Graphics 9.5/10
  The graphics in this game are outstanding, all options on highest of course. The indoor and outdoor 
 environments look magnificent. The smoke from the smoke grenades and the explosions were also some 
 of the best I have seen in any game. Although, textures can be a little less sharp when standing 
 really close to something, but the game is so chaotic that you wont notice much of it anyway.
 
  
  Sound 10/10
  Sound is where CoD2 excels like no other. Between the stirring score that kicks up during key moments, 
 to the top-notch gun explosion effects, the game sounds amazing. The speech is also great, especially 
 the yelling between squadmates and enemies during battle, which plays right into the excitement 
 and tension as you fight.
  
  Artificial Intelligence-AI 9/10 (On hardest) , 8/10 (On easier)
  The artificial intelligence in 
 this game is amazing, in elite anyway. Your teammates will kick down super indestructible tables 
 and take cover behind them, pick up and throw enemy grenades back at them, and basically react 
 like any proper soldier would in combat. Enemy soldiers would behave the same way. In some of the 
 easier difficulties teammates and enemy soldiers alike would run out into the open and get shot, 
 which I found extremely hilarious, yet quite frustrating.
  Its just too bad you cant pick up grenades and throw it back at them, and kick down super indestructible 
 tables and the like.
  
  Pros:
  Very realistic
  Great gameplay elements
  Great graphics
  Great AI
  Great sound
  Great Optimization
  
  Cons:
  Cant do many of 
 the things that the cpu can
  Same health system for everyone
  Enemies didnt have much variety
  I put great too many times :1eye:
  
  Conclusion:
  IMHO, 
 Call of Duty 2 is definitely one of the best games, ever. Superb gameplay, great graphics, even 
 better sound and very good artificial intelligence. Basically Call of Duty 2 has everything you 
 may hope for in a successful world war 2 shooter, and more. If you enjoyed the original and are 
 thirsting for more, Cod2 will definitely deliver that.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: BlueAtlas
Rating: 9.4
Date: Aug 11, 2006 1:51 am PT
Review:  Infinity Ward and Activision have done it again and released another great WWII shooter. I can 
 easily see why this was Game of the Year. The graphics are really amazing when being played on 
 a high end video card. After playing for only less than an hour, I easily noticed just how much 
 smarter the enemy was. Not to fear though, your fellow comrades have gotten a little smarter as 
 well. I remember in the first few games my teammates would just stand around in the middle of the 
 crossfire and get killed. The developers of this game have done a great job replicating the recoil 
 and detail to each anitque weapon. I can't wait to what they have in store for the next installment 
 in the series. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hozhoz
Rating: 9.3
Date: Aug 10, 2006 10:58 am PT
Review:  Youre running through the amazing looking streets with grenades exploding around you and bullets 
 being fired at you from all directions, some clinking into metal objects and ricocheting off. You 
 run to cover to get out of the way of the sniper who had his sight on you and think "wow, I could 
 actually be there"
  
  There is an intensity and realism to Call of Duty 2 no other First Person Shooter (FPS) has created. 
 It does little to radicalize the genre but it does every old idea brilliantly.
  
  I'm going to split the four categories (gameplay, graphics, sound and value) into two separate 
 categories single-player and multiplayer.
  
  Gameplay:
  
  Very well designed storylines and differing gameplay make the single-player campaign a full-filling 
 experience. The difficulty options are well designed and give you a description of what sort of 
 gamer should play each. The game splits into the lives of 3 soldiers in WWII, all from the allied 
 forces, and tells the story of their war time lives as soldiers. The story stands up well and is 
 support by old black and white footage before each mission which is interesting but not necessary 
 to enjoy single-player. There are four nations in the game, British, American, Russian (the Allied 
 forces) and the Germans (Axis forces) each have differing weapons and look.
  
  Single-player is rather long but as the missions are set in completely different places and has 
 varying objectives they are highly enjoyable, but I would not call the single-player campaign the 
 main reason you should buy the game. It is helpful to improve your skills with all kinds of different 
 weapons and find out which ones you favour. All in all single-player should be more of a "side 
 game" to what I find the most exciting and intense online FPS of all time.
  
  The Artificial Intelligence of the computer is very well done you feel part of a team and you must 
 advance together to get past enemy forces. Allies will provide cover fire or take the task of sniping 
 or manning a Gatling gun.
  Allied soldiers shout commands and say where enemy soldiers are and enemy soldiers shout in they're 
 national language. It adds to the experience and it helps greatly when someone shouts "enemy soldier 
 behind you" and you can turn round and shoot him.
  
  Even though before I said they have not added much to revolutionize FPS's Infinity Ward have made 
 a step forward in the health system of FPS games. Gone are the health bars of old and now the interface 
 looks much cleaner adding to the realism, now health recharges and it pays to be safe. Okay you 
 may think "thats stupid, that must detract from the realism" but you would be completely wrong, 
 firstly it eliminates health packs and the like which did look a bit silly in the first place. 
 Secondly you can see some physical effects when you are injured, the screen goes red, your vision 
 is blurred and you stumble around, it makes you feel hurt.
  
  Aiming is always a talking point in FPS's and it is one of the only gameplay niggles I have in 
 COD2. A lot of the time it is fine, machines guns when 'sprayed' go off in one direction; sniper 
 rifles have big recoil, etc. But some guns they haven't quite got the balance right. To get more 
 accuracy with weapons you have to right click to look down the sight, on some weapons the sight 
 is obscured by big clips or dodgy sights, this is an annoyance that isn't really necessary to the 
 game. In perspective it is very few weapons and most are ones which don't always require aiming. 
 Sniper rifles have a magnified sight but shaky aiming so you have to breathe in to stop the shaking, 
 this system is handled very well and it isn't hard to quickly aim down the sight then breath in 
 when you get used to it.
  
  There are six main types of guns, pistols, machines guns, heavy machines guns, fast-fire rifles, 
 bolt action rifles and sniper rifles; there is also a rocket launcher in single-player only and 
 a few shotguns. There are also grenades which all act the same and play a part in strategic manoeuvres; 
 there are frag and smoke grenades. You usually start with a pistol and a weapon of your choice 
 but this can change slightly. Every weapon is slightly or vastly different from another which makes 
 the game differ and the choice in weapons greater. But sometimes weapons are a bit unbalanced and 
 don't stay up to the standards of other weapons, for example the fastest gun in the game, the PPSH. 
 Its probably used by 75%+ of the people on the Russians; it is powerful, fast and in short bursts 
 not inaccurate and is regarded as the most annoying and 'sprayish' weapon in the game, on most 
 maps its a fair weapon but on small maps it is an unfair advantage. To be honest it isn't a huge 
 problem but it wouldn't be so hard to fix with a downgrade of the weapon.
  
  Running speed is affected depending on which weapon you currently have out, with pistols you run 
 at full speed, but with a sniper rifle you make run at half. In multiplayer games you can see the 
 adjustment to your running speed each weapon has as well as there power and accuracy.
  
  The maps on the game are really special and are well thought out and designed and give little advantage 
 to either force. On each map there are spots to hide for cover, to take up sniping positions or 
 to have an all-out rush on the enemies base. All the maps differ in appearance and set-up and 
 add to the experience in single-player and multiplayer. Learning the maps is an integral part of 
 getting better at the game as they are so complex and knowing the one hiding spot where the Russians 
 always run round can give you an advantage.
  
  On to multiplayer, where the really amazing gameplay starts. Its the thrill of the main game but 
 you know you are competing against real people with better intelligence than the computer (most 
 of the time) . The online experience is one where you can be killed one minute then taking on three 
 people the next. It is so intense at times you feel your head might explode. You will be playing 
 the multiplayer for a long time and most likely making friends and finding good servers. Oh and 
 there is very little lag and its easy to meet friends in the same server; the search option is 
 very good and fast.
  
  Gameplay: 9/10
  Almost a 10, just a few discrepancies make it miss the perfect mark.
  
  Graphics:
  
  Amazing. 
 To fully experience the graphics of the Cal of Duty 2 you don't need a top-end PC just a slightly 
 better than average graphics card and a good processor. The graphics are simply perfect. The enemies 
 blend into the scenery and it adds a whole new dimension to the gameplay, on a lot of other shoot 
 'em ups you can easily see the enemy and its just about aiming but now you have to look twice round 
 every corner and check every bush and tree and if you don't you might get blown to bits.
  
  The maps all look vastly different and look well compared to there real life areas. The building 
 all slightly different, some plain, some with interesting patterns, some little more than one wall, 
 all add to the differing environments. There are also many war time objects about, broken down 
 tanks, artillery, etc. The sky, trees and bushes are all realistic and trees and bushes can be 
 used as hiding spots or cover. The terrain also looks realistic to the different places and gains 
 and drops in height.
  
  There is a mini-radar which shows, allied soldiers positions, enemy positions who are shooting 
 and flags in capture the flag mode. The radar is useful in locating the flag and enemies but sometimes 
 confusing when a lot of people are clumped up together.
  
  In single-player every person has a unique face design. You can see they're emotions, some looking 
 petrified while getting shot at or some looking brave while running into battle. The guns also 
 look unique and interesting and even bullets differ in size and look. In multiplayer there is no 
 slowdown in busy areas and there is an indication of who killed who and how; showing the weapon 
 or if it was a headshot which is cool if not also useful.
  
  Graphics: 10/10
  Pretty much perfect, very good but not overly good or busy to produce slowdown. Adds to the complete 
 experience.
  
  Sound:
  
  The sound is another very good part of the experience of the game. You hear bullets whiz past you 
 into a tree or a metal object and makes an overly realistic sound. With a good soundcard and headphones 
 you can feel like your actually just being missed by a bullet. Another feature is when walking 
 while standing up or falling off something of moderate height you make noise so you must either 
 crouch while walking or not fall off so other players can not hear you. You can also hear changing 
 weapons, picking up weapons and breathing in with a sniper rifle.
  
  The sounds are very realistic and the shouts of comrades and enemies add to the feeling that you 
 could be in a bunker in WWII. Also in multiplayer sounds can be an integral part of play as hearing 
 your opponent can sometimes help you locate them much more easily than just randomly searching.
 
  
  Sound: 9/10
  Very realistic sounds and quality bullet and grenade sounds, could be more differing ones depending 
 on terrain and such.
  
  Value:
  
  Going to be a quick one here. This game is complete value for money; it currently is half the price 
 of newer game and will last you many times longer. The online mode is free and will last you a 
 long time, I see no reason not to add this to your collection right now if you are an FPS fan or 
 just a fan of games.
  
  Value: 10/10
  If you only buy one game in the next six months get this.
  
  Rent or Buy?
  
  Buy, Buy, 
 Buy! A classic game that you will remember with joy in years to come. Will last you a long time 
 and be a memorable experience. You'll probably have lots of late nights with this game.
  
  The best game I have bought in a long while and one with the best value too. Hope you enjoy it 
 as much as I have. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zHELLDOG
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 1, 2007 11:00 am PT
Review:  Call of Duty 2 is one of the most widely played games on xbox live, and alot of pc gamers play 
 online too. The graphics went under a big improvement from its predecessor, as did the gameplay. 
 I can't really get into it's campaign, but the online play is really fun. New weapons and stuff. 
 One thing ive noticed on single player is that many of the german troops are big boned which i 
 suppose is some comic relief to the situation. In this game there are no health packs or even a 
 health bar, much to my dissapointment. Instead, you can get shot thousands of times and never die. 
 I say that as a bad thing because the screen turns red when you are close to death, which is really 
 annoying. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: herodotus2006
Rating: 8.3
Date: Sep 29, 2006 5:59 am PT
Review:  I am a great fan of Call of Duty having survived the mawling I received in MOHAA and its' 2 expansion 
 packs. Replaying the MOH series you realize just how diverse and varied your objectives, scenarios 
 and playing experience are. Sometimes it plays like Doom 3 , with a dog jumping you out of nowhere, 
 or a shattering hail of bullets from a quiet little orchard. And boy, your health bar plummets 
 like lead in water. COD could be just as frantic, but it was more fun, less hectic, and you quite 
 often have a squad to keep you company (though the mission goals are up to you as always) . COD: UO 
 upped the ante enormously. When I first played (and reloaded x 10) the Ardennes Campaign I couldn't 
 believe the staggering number of Germans I had to fend off. The campaigns were even more diverse 
 (a bomber gunner?) and far more vicious (the Russian section is savage) . CoD: UO was designed by 
 Grey Matter and they obviously felt they had something to prove. Like serving your head to you 
 in your own helmet. Cod2 went back to Infinity Ward and you might think they'd want to up the ante 
 yet again. Guess not. Its' actually far easier. GRAPHICS: Great if you have the goods. The Russian 
 section is gritty and harsh as it should be. The desert section suitably arid with lovely sunsets 
 and long shadows. The American Normandy section wet, muddy and dreary (as it was) . The other change 
 from the previous installment is the colouring. COD and UO were quite colourful, with bright yellow 
 fires, orange/black explosions and lovely red-bricked buildings. COD2 strips that colour away. 
 It looks like someone has watched too much Band Of Brothers . Grey is the colour of the day (apart 
 from the desert, but even then it is a very washed-out) . Explosions are more smoke than flame, 
 and if you don't believe me, play the British campaign and see how Captain Price's red beret stands 
 out. Gives the game a downright dirty feel. So, in comparison with the first WWII comes to your 
 monitor in all its' non-glory (more realistic, that is) . The attention to detail is much higher. 
 In the original you would come to generic farmhouse, see the alleyways and know the enemy is only 
 going to appear at the doorway or around the corner. This time that farmhouse is modelled on photos 
 from the region, the alleys are shadowed, and this time you'll find yourself slowing to check those 
 alleys and corners. A lot more depth. You decide if it works for you. For me, I feel like I have 
 a very different game from the first, which is good, and better executed than Brothers In Arms 
 .
  
  GAMEPLAY: The interface is streamlined. No more health bar (which I never had time to look at in 
 UO anyway) . No more quicksaves, strange, but oddly not a problem. Once the first Russkie section 
 is complete you can continue or branch off into the British. First British mission done, the US 
 campaign opens. Some reviewers found this weird, but it actually works well. You get more of a 
 feeling of a WORLD war. Now the negatives.
  The enemy is always in front of or above you. 9 times out of 10 a direct rush at an enemy position 
 actually works. They look at you, then look away. Tatatatata. Up the difficulty a level, and they'll 
 throw your grenades right back at you. If you're running low on ammo for your Thompson, let your 
 mates run ahead, get mown down, and restock from them. Heh heh! Apart from some tank missions, 
 the bulk of all 3 campaigns are based on house-to-house fighting. In the US Campaign, I ran to 
 the doors of the houses to be cleared, and my mates actually went in and completed the objectives 
 for me. By then, I was very, very tired of street fighting. The diversity was gone. If this was 
 a RTS, I would say that tank-rush tactics were the way to win. I expected much, particularly since 
 UO . There is actually more tension, varied and different fighting techniques and overall polish 
 in MOH: PA . SOUND: Deserves a special mention. The soundtrack, from film composer Greame Revell 
 is very dramatic. But the voice acting is the best part. Squad mates will yell Sniper on the balcony 
 to the left , and sure enough he'll be there. If you take different routes to your objective the 
 vocal responses will adapt and yell appropriate warnings. This Battle Chatter is something Infinity 
 Ward is proud of, and rightly so. Gives you an extra feeling of authenticity.
  
  SUMMARY: I enjoyed COD2 , and will replay it again and again like the others, but there is not 
 the Oh yeah!!!! rush at completing a hard mission that you got from the MOH series or COD: UO . 
 I like the changes they've made in gameplay, but overall its' as easy to complete as the first 
 installment, but it actually feels shorter. I finished it in one days' sitting, and rushing doorways 
 really does get tiresome. Outflanking MG nests is also a doddle, and just as monotonous. Throw 
 4 grenades (one will come back at you, so duck) , pop smoke and mow them down as they stagger out. 
 It could have been a great jump forward for WWII FPS's, but missed the sandpit. Still, I love it 
 (especially if I just play it for its' more realistic feel over the others) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wordss
Rating: 8.9
Date: Aug 4, 2006 10:13 pm PT
Review:  this is a wicked fun first person shooter. it has so many guns and even different types of grenades. 
 One of the best parts is being able to command your soldiers how ever you want. It is definitley 
 one of those games where it takes alot of shots for you to die. It gets to b wicked hard at some 
 points and kinda easy at others. Its kina a short game too but it takes pretty long to beat. This 
 is probably one of the greatest war games i have ever played. And definitley one of the most realistic. 
 The tanks are wicked fun to drive in and the tanks even have thei own missions! I think thats awesome. 
 Some of the guns are the luger, the tommy gun, and a **** of other ones that are really powerful. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BlaZe_irl
Rating: 8.8
Date: Aug 4, 2006 3:48 am PT
Review:  There are many WW2 FPS games out there and the sequel to Call of Duty had big shoes to fill and 
 had high expectations from fans and reviewers to meet. I am glad to say that it does just that. 
 
  
  Gameplay- The gameplay is amazing. COD 2 allows you to play as American, British and Russian soldiers 
 in different campaigns spanning many different locations. You will always be with your squad, and 
 it is hard to just "run n gun". You have to think tacticaly to advance, although it is quite frustrating 
 to have to move forward before the endless reams of germans stop coming. Some missions seam repetitive 
 at times aswell.
  
  Graphics- By having quite a low end graphics card, i wasnt able to experience the the full potential 
 of CoD2, although i was quite amazed at how it looked even on low/med setings. 
  
  Sound- One of the best features of the game, is how well done the sound effects are. Every explosion, 
 every bullet wizzing past your head, really helps the authentic experience. Your squad mates are 
 constantly barking orders and enemy locations which i find cool. 
  
  Multiplayer- The multiplayer is good fun and will expand the life of the game. The traditional 
 gametypes are back and so are a few of the old maps, with new features of course. Although multiplayer 
 is a bit slower-paced, it still provides the same adrenaline rush as the ordinal.
  
  This is another great world war 2 shooter from Activion which any FPS fan should pick up.
  
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ThEtHoMaS
Rating: 8.1
Date: Aug 2, 2006 7:45 pm PT
Review:  Campaign
  
  When I first played this game, it felt alot like Call of Duty 1 but alot more flashier, and looked 
 nicer. They also added more of squad based gameplay, like they promised, but in the end it didnt 
 feel like i was in a squad. It felt like i was in a mob which had no direction. The thing that 
 i was amazed with was the details on the map. I visited these places that the allies faught in, 
 during the Normandy campaign, and the level detail is amazing. The gameplay I thaught was way to 
 repetitive, and very unrealistic. You are the guy who has to take out a whole bunker of German 
 troops, and somehow make it out alive. I just wish they made the squad play alot more innovative 
 and realistic. Your teamates are basically useless in this game. Besides the invincible ones, who 
 you can hide behind. I just wish Infinity Ward put more realism into the campaign. A huge dissapointment 
 is Point Du Hoc, where right when you get off the Higgins craft your ship blows up and you dont 
 really see any action, you just get carried around like your injured and get back up miraculously.
 
  
  Multiplayer
  
  Multipayer feels exactly like it did in Call of Duty 1 without the expansion. They dont have tanks 
 anymore or jeeps, which i found really fun to play. Its just infantry combat. Its fun for about 
 a week, then its just so repetitive. Theres not any replayable factor in any of the missions of 
 search and destroy, and the team death match and deathmatches require no real tactics or team works.
 
  
  Overall
  
  This game was dissapointing, because they did promise more teamwork, that they did not deliver, 
 and just mainly looks prettier than Call of Duty 1. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: diablo9601
Rating: 9.4
Date: Aug 2, 2006 4:18 am PT
Review:  Amazing game i must say! It's a huge step forward since call of duty game of the year edition! I 
 loved the first release of call of duty and i couldn't get enough of it, Stunning graphics, amazing 
 gameplay, realistic stories etc.. And thi has all been improved in call of duty 2! The multiplayer 
 2 is even alot better, a complete new storyline with different campaign (american, russian) makes 
 us more excited to play this game! I was first of all amazed with the new graphical engine which 
 is simply amazing! The sound of each gun, tank, grenade sounds so real that sometimes you feel as 
 if you are really inside the game... I have no doubt that this game might become "game of the year" 
 edition just like the first call of duty for all the world war 2 fans, make sure that you buy this 
 game because it's simply the best in it's genre and alot better then medal of honor! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nickster1992
Rating: 9.3
Date: Aug 2, 2006 12:35 pm PT
Review:  This is one of my favorite games that I have for one reason, Online.
  The single player is great but in the end you will just love Multiplayer the most. 
  
  Single 
 Player: Not as fun as online play but really what game is better than its online feature? Single 
 player is a decent length. You can choose your difficulty which is great. There are lots of guns 
 that you can use and one very cool thing is all your comrades have different faces. You can see 
 their emotions; some look scared heading into battle, while some look fearless. Single player is 
 a great way to train for online play. And after you completed it you can replay each mission that 
 you did at any difficulty that you choose.
  
  Multiplayer: This will have you glued to your computer for hours. I have had this game for about 
 8 months, and I still enjoy playing online, thats the best part, you wont get tired of this game! 
 You might start out good or maybe as a noob, but dont give up, most start out clueless and end 
 up undefeatable. In my opinion this is the best online First Person Shooter game out there, well 
 that is until Call of Duty 3
  
  Rent or Buy? If you read my review you would know I would tell you to buy, but thats your decision. 
 If you are a FPS fan than you should definitely get this game, if notwell get this game and your 
 mind will be changed.
  
  Now if youll excuse Im going to play Cod2 online now, Hope you liked my review and hope it helps!
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mr_Beckham
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jul 31, 2006 3:38 pm PT
Review:  Definitely improved graphics on this version.... 
  After finishing both Call of Duty (One) and its expansion, I was looking forward at taking on the 
 newest version of Activision's Call of Duty...
  
  Putting you in the shoes of some of the brave fighters in midst of World War 2, one genuinely gets 
 the real feel of what those people feeling. Specially with extreme graphical detail. Just to see 
 bullits flying over and around your head!!! Really makes it a stunning war game. Perhaps the best 
 ever!!! Seeing people die for their countries makes you wonder why on earth did all this really 
 happen. Was it for fame or for the love of their country?
  
  Perhaps it was both... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jbernhard99
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jul 29, 2006 10:15 am PT
Review:  It's the best WWII FPS I've played to date -- except for a strange, modular approach to the missions. 
 If I wanted this type of approach, I'd buy the console version of the game; the fact that completing 
 missions unlocks other missions that can be completed in any random order kinda' takes the fun 
 out of it in that you play different people throughout the game. I know it's not realistic to have 
 the same character fight in battle after battle, mission after mission, but that's the beauty of 
 the PC platform; you can acquire skills, strenghts, attributes, experience over time that makes 
 you a more effective avatar... I wonder why they can't develop a random RPG / WWII shooter -- something 
 inbetween 'Oblivion', 'Call of Duty 2' and the movie 'Saving Private Ryan'. That essentially was 
 a long quest with lots of hurdles, people dying, etc. -- I would love to see a game like that.
 
  
  COD2 is not bad, though. The gameplay is highly immersive; bullets whiz buy and thunk into walls 
 and snow; tanks roar and clank along; men scream when they are hurt; the enemies curse and swear 
 and come at you with Satan in their eyes; there were many moments during gameplay where I thought, 
 "Damn, this feels pretty freaking realistic."
  
  So, all in all, I good game; I'd recommend it, especially if you have a rig with enough juice to 
 drive the graphics (which includes gorgeous explosions, very realistic smoke and flames, snowflakes, 
 fog, and the like...)
  
  Good game -- except for the modular approach. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: joe_calzone
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 29, 2006 2:22 am PT
Review:  This is truly a heck of a game!
  
  Graphics and sound are very good, gameplay is superb. Very easy to control, fantastic cooperation 
 with the support mates (without that hassle to issue orders) , very satisfactory experience.
  
  In few scenes you'll have to repulse attack waves with tons of enemies, assisted by your mates, 
 this turns into a real mess! Maybe a semi-realistic scenario of the front line in WW2.
  
  Even at the most difficult level the game is playable. The only problematic situations are the 
 ones described above, in which you may die very quickly.
  
  Maybe it could be resource-demanding to be run at full detail, but the amount of soldiers that 
 fills the battlefiled even in the most crowded scenes is impressive, and is well managed without 
 noticeable slowdowns.
  
  One thing I missed is the gore, I mean, this is a war game: I expected guts on the walls and dismemberments, 
 but there's none. That could have contributed to a more vivid depiction of WW2 battles.
  
  To sum up: play this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JCWojtowicz
Rating: 7
Date: Jul 28, 2006 7:57 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay-The campaigns are very diverse and makes the game far less repetative than it could have 
 been and some of the levels are incredible to play because of its scripted sequences, but the combat 
 does eventually become a system of grenading the hell out of something to win.
  One other factor of gameplay that dissapoints me is its complete and total lack of strategy which 
 is where games in the brothers in arms series excell.
  
  Graphics-CoD2 does deliver some good visuals (smoke especialy)
  but even though it cam out quite 
 recently it completely and utterly lacks any kind of physics whatsoever which was quite surprising 
 seeing such games as HL2 delivering incredible physics as i was hoping games such as call of duty 
 2 with so much hype would atleast be compareable to such games.
  
  Sound-CoD2 delivers some simply amazing sounds and evry thing from footsteps to an artillery strike 
 sound incredibly realistic (aswell as very loud)
  and this increases the alround experience of play to a much higher level.
  
  Value-The game 
 is worth the cost.
  
  Tilt/Overall-If your expecting biggest game yet and something equal to brothers in arms RTH30 or 
 maybe evn HL2 (probly not) then you will be dissapointed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: aaronpremo
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 27, 2006 5:54 pm PT
Review:  Don't listen to the guy who gave it a 2.0 he needs to get back to his WOW or Elder Scrolls, hello 
 its a war yeah things are suppose to be destroyed and all that and i mean what do you want you 
 aim a gun and shoot in real life, if you like your fantasy buddy stick with that then don't come 
 gripping here, well enough of that on to the game.
  
  First off Call of Duty series has really taken the World War shooters to the next level, and yeah 
 maybe it's time to give the ol WW2 a rest but still this game offers what i wanted in a WW2 shooter.
 
  
  Graphics
  Wow is all i can say i played the others but this one just looks very good, I just have a Geforce 
 6600 GT and it still looks great. The smoke effects, the detail on the soldiers, just the little things 
 here and there and make it feel like you are really in war torn Europe.
  
  Gameplay
  If it's not broke don't fix it and thats what this is. It's still the fast paced thrill ride with 
 a few thing's added to spice it up. No med packs for one, i mean yeah it really does'nt add to the 
 realism but better than having to spend time running around while German MG42's are peppering your 
 ass looking for a med pack. The only thing is you have to hold Shift to hold a sniper weapon still, but 
 that is just me being lazy nice little touch though.
  
  Sound
  All I have to say is turn the sound WAY up put on your helmet and prepare yourself for feeling 
 like you are there. The guns, the yelling of troops, the sound of a tank coming, bombers flying overhead 
 you name it, it just grabs you and pulls you in.
  
  Value
  This is a little low for me cause after you beat it, you just have the different skill settings, and 
 i don't multiplay cause of a bad internet connection and lousy friend's lol but I'm sure given 
 the last 2 thing's would bump that up more.
  
  Conclusion
  If you liked the original Call of Duty games, and are a fan of War games or just want to take vent 
 some frustrations this is the game for you. Fast paced action, awesome game play and unforgettable 
 atmosphere. I highly recommend you go and pick a copy up.... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: black_gable
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jul 24, 2006 9:05 am PT
Review:  This is a great game about WWII with great Single and Mulitplayer Modes. Its action packed single 
 player is great you can be British, American, and Russian agains Germans. The Singleplayer has 
 many missions with 3 diffrent campaigns. One of the greatest highlights about this game is the 
 mulitplayer. The mulitplayer modes include: Deathmatch, Team Deathmatch, Capture the Flag, Search 
 and Destroy, and more. A Great game i reccomend to anyone who likes FPS's even if you dont like 
 war. If you have a 360 or a good PC then difently buy this game. I give this game a 8.6-9 because 
 it has great gameplay, value, graphics, and is just a plain cool and fun game. If you dont have 
 this game get it!!!! This concludes my review thank you for reading. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ackad
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 23, 2006 3:08 pm PT
Review:  I love World War Two. The Most Important time for Veterans and American Citizens right? Well, This 
 videogame called Call Of Duty Two really shows you how World War Two was like. This game shows 
 you how much violence there was in Worl War Two, This game shows you what has happnened during 
 te stories of veterans, and this game shows you how their weapons used to look like. This game 
 really gets me excited because I love World War two. If I was twenty around the war time, I would 
 really join.
  This is the best war game ever. This game is even better than Brother's in Arms. This is a must 
 buy for Computer Gamers. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: duxup
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jul 23, 2006 7:00 pm PT
Review:  Call of Duty 2 takes the proven Call of Duty formula of fast paced and frantic World War II infantry 
 battles and tosses in an improved AI and crisp graphics. The result is a game that despite a saturated 
 World War II shooter market manages to stand out as a great game that shouldnt be missed by those 
 who can take just a little more WWII.
  
  Call of Duty 2 successfully subscribes to the theory that if it aint broke dont fix it and at 
 the same time seems to fill in some of the small gaps that the original Call of Duty had. Like 
 its predecessor Call of Duty 2 presents you with a series of campaigns (Russian, American and British) 
 that successfully introduce a welcome variety of environments for you to fight thru. Like the previous 
 game you will fight on the beaches, in the fields, and in the streets, and in what could now be 
 considered classic Call of Duty style as you fight to take strategic positions and then occasionally 
 have to hold those positions in the face of large counterattacks. 
  
  One improvement that makes these defensive missions more enjoyable is the improved allied AI. In 
 previous Call of Duty games your squad mates were only mildly effective as solders. They took out 
 enemies here or there but most of the time their biggest benefit to you was to act as a distraction 
 to the enemy so that you didnt take all the fire. In Call of Duty 2 your squad mates will do a 
 pretty good job taking out opponents as they appear. Theyll rarely clear an entire position of 
 enemy troops for you, as there seems to be some sort of artificial system that prevents them from 
 doing so, and their long range shooting ability (even with rifles) is pretty spotty. Yet even with 
 those handicaps your squad mates feel a great deal more useful than ever before as you will find 
 yourself free to take some cover for a moment to reload or heal during even the fiercest of firefights. 
 
  
  Speaking of healing, another improvement to the Call of Duty series found in COD2 is total lack 
 of health packs. The health system has been scaled back to the point that it doesnt even need 
 to appear on the screen. The system is simple. As you take damage the edges of the screen turn 
 red. Take enough damage in a short period of time and youre dead. If you wish to heal simply find 
 a place on the battlefield where you wont be shot (even ducking behind the crate you were firing 
 from will work) and you will heal as about fast as you were injured. This keeps the action of the 
 game focused on the battles and this means that as soon as you start taking fire to your body you 
 need to either take cover or quickly maneuver to a better protected position as the enemy AI is 
 often very quick to follow up one successful shot after another.
  
  The result is a game where you will often determine where you move by how much cover each position 
 has followed by some exciting sprints from position to position as you try to find the best cover. 
 While this maneuvering can be exhilarating this also touches on one of the Call of Duty 2s weaknesses, 
 reliability. While many of Call of Duty 2s missions are well designed and memorable often the 
 greatest challenge is figuring out exactly how you should progress thru the mission in terms of 
 finding the best firing position and when exactly to move there. Once you find the best spot to 
 fight from you are often rewarded with some satisfying sequences where you can fire on your opponents 
 while they are desperately maneuvering to avoid your fire or simply surprise the enemy who gave 
 you so much trouble earlier by creeping up behind them and mowing them down. The catch being that 
 once you figure out where to go in each mission much of the challenge is lost.
  
  Thats not to say that once you find that nice warm supply crate, or overturned truck to hide behind 
 it is smooth sailing. An entrenched player in Call of Duty 2 is a man living on borrowed time. 
 Stay in one place long enough and one of two things will happen. One is that AI will actually charge 
 you in numbers. This is actually quite surprising the first few time it happens as the enemy can 
 move just as fast as you can. Often this will lead to you being taken out before you realize what 
 is happening by an enemy solider knocking you across the head with the butt of his rifle. The second 
 possible fate for an entrenched Call of Duty 2 player is rain, kind of.
  
  Call of Duty 2 doesnt have any significant weather effects but that doesnt keep the enemy AI 
 from raining on you fairly frequently, not with water, but with grenades. Sometimes er pretty 
 much all the time you when you find that great position to shoot from you will attract the attention 
 of the enemy AIs favorite weapon, the grenade. The result is that many times you will find yourself 
 moving back and forth between your last two positions as you wait for a grenade to detonate at 
 your most recent position before you can return to it. While not an entirely unnatural strategy, 
 the enemy never seems to follow up their success in moving you back to a previous position meaning 
 that the back and forth game of maneuvering to avoid the numerous grenades can become tedious. 
 Especially during some missions where the supply of fresh enemy troops seems to go on a bit longer 
 than you would like. Havent I already shot twelve guys who have hidden behind that car already?
 
  
  Yet the grenade odds arent entirely in the enemy AIs favor. You will find yourself well supplied 
 with grenades thru most of Call of Duty 2 and they can be very useful for clearing buildings and 
 encouraging the enemy to move from a position so you can fire on them as they run. In fact you 
 will find yourself well supplied with pretty much any ammo you want throughout the game. Occasionally 
 you may run dry of ammo for your Allied weapons, but of you dont want to swap to Axis weapons 
 all you have to do is wait a while and eventually one of your squad mates carrying a similar weapon 
 will take one for the team and youll flush with ammo once again. Fortunately when one of your 
 squad mates does go down they are often replaced in a timely fashion by new trooper who arrives 
 just in the nick of time to take the down solders position, or another bullet, whatever the case 
 may be. War is hell.
  
  As for weaponry Call of Duty 2 packs the standard WWII weapons. Pistols, sub machine guns, bolt-action 
 rifles, sniper rifles, semi automatic rifles, automatic rifles, and fixed machine guns. Like just 
 about every other WWII shooter youre introduced to the more advanced weaponry such as the American 
 BAR and German STG-44 as you progress thru the game. If youre bored of WWII weapons Call of Duty 
 doesnt do much to help you there, but its hard to fault the game as WWII just doesnt get those 
 new fangled weapon designs like current conflicts do.
  
  You can carry only two weapons at a time in Call of Duty 2 but that doesnt present much of a challenges 
 as sniper rifles are provided when needed and most players will find themselves playing with the 
 standard sub machine gun and rifle combo. One noteworthy observation is that headshots seem to 
 be the only way to pull off one shot kills in Call of Duty 2. Rifle shots at point blank range 
 didnt have much more effect than the sub machine gun at distance as such often require a follow 
 up second shot to finish the opponent. While somewhat surprising it only seems fair as the enemy 
 has no access to health packs nor can it completely heal by hiding for a few seconds behind a crate 
 as the player can.
  
  One of the most impressive aspects of Call of Duty 2 are its the graphics. Call of Duty 2 features 
 some wonderful bright and lively graphics that benefit from the interesting locations you visit 
 during the campaign. Explosions (especially the big ones) look great and smoke effects look nice. 
 The only downside is that without a powerful system players will hit frame rate issues during some 
 of the larger scale sequences, but nothing that should prevent the player from progressing in the 
 game. The only downside to the graphics is that they can feel sterile at times. Despite a massive 
 firefight fixed objects that arent intended to move such as walls, artillery, and the obligatory 
 crate never change despite how many grenades and bullet impacts they take. This gives the game 
 a sort of artificial shooting gallery feel at times where those fixed objects seem a bit out of 
 place. Of course youll be spending most of your time scrambling around and looking down the sights 
 of your weapon so it rarely isnt a big issue. 
  
  Call of Duty 2s graphics are only surpassed by its sound. War is loud and so is Call of Duty 2. 
 In fact the numerous effects of guns firing, grenades exploding and yelling solders create an effective 
 atmosphere and even adds some early tension as your ears try to filter out all the chaos. Occasionally 
 there is more than just noise. Call of Duty 2 has some outstanding music as well. When the orchestral 
 music kicks in it is genuinely inspiring and adds a great deal to the climax of some battles. The 
 only complaint there is that the outstanding orchestral music plays more in the menus than in game. 
 It seems sort of sad to waste such great music mostly in the menus.
  
  As for multiplayer Call of Duty 2 sports some quality content for single player focused game. The 
 multiplayer game isnt nearly as squad intensive as the single player game. As with many online 
 games even when there are teams youre sometimes better off maneuvering on your own unless youre 
 playing with a well-practiced team. With 13 maps and multiple modes of play such as death mach, 
 team death match, capture the flag, and so on Call of Duty 2s multiplayer offerings manage to 
 extend the value of the game a bit more for those who want to experience the maps in a fashon or 
 hop on line and shoot their friends in the face. 
  
  The length of the game is probably Call of Duty 2s only issue. At about 8 to 10 hours, depending 
 on your experience and what difficulty level you play at, Call of Duty 2 is a bit on the short 
 side of first person shooter experiences. Yet what Call of Duty 2 does provide is high quality 
 and for those looking for a frantic jaunt thru the African and European World War II theaters it 
 is worth the trip providing everything you would expect from a Call of Duty game.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ViperCPT
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jul 23, 2006 1:44 pm PT
Review:  Well what can I say... Except well done! Once again the creators of Call of Duty has out done themselves 
 again... The game just keeps getting better.
  
  After starting to play COD 2 I was hooked in front of my PC for days, because I wanted more. Every 
 aspect of the game just keeps you hooked. Been playing all of the COD releases this by far takes 
 the gold medal.
  
  If you want to feel how war feels like, COD2 comes real close to it... Hold on to your helmets 
 guys and take the war to the enemy. 
  
  Well done once again. A game worth spending money on. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: neerajkumar_4
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jul 23, 2006 5:57 am PT
Review:  
  COD 2 :-
  
  By,
  
  $rpi_g@mr a. k. a Neerajkumar_4 
  
  About The Game IN SHORT :- 
  
  The GooD : Smart AI -- Great War Environment and Sound -- 27 
 missions (3 campaigns) -- Very immersive, Very Intense and realistic battles -- Sniping is fun 
 -- You get to use WW II vehicles
  
  The BaD : None !!! Ya but it can give u a Head Ache!!! :P 
  
  Introduction:-
  
  This is 
 the sequel to the famous World War I game named Call Of Duty, published my Activision and Infinity 
 Ward. Its a great and a Super-Hit sequel. FPS fans wont be disappointed, even those who dont like 
 Historic FPS, must give it a try. The game has 3 Campaigns ( 27 Missions) , you get to play as a 
 Russian, British and US. 
  
  Game-play:-
  
  You get to snipe your enemies down, use WW II tanks, blow up tanks either by planting bombs or 
 by the rocket launcher etc.... 
  
  This game has no health bar jus that if you get hurt badly you'll die ! you can see when you are 
 hurt as the screen goes red and you'll be taking deep breaths (just take cover for a while and 
 Voila ! you've recovered) . Your foe's will give you cover at all times and will be with you always 
 coz "In a War no one fights alone". You have to smoke the places to give you cover, Shoot every 
 one & throw grenades but don't forget to take cover !! The AI is very aggresive, so watch out ! 
 
  
  As soon as you die the game loads to the last Check point ( the last Auto-save) and you read few 
 quotes about the WAR told by few famous people. The Auto-Saving feature is used perfectly. 
  
  Graphics:-
  
  The Graphics are pretty cool as the war environment is very much realistic, 
 character animation is great. The smoke effects are awesome ! 
  
  Sound:-
  
  The sound of the game is just simply fabulous! Its feel too realistic, you'll really enjoy the 
 game with the war sound ! The voice acting is nice.
  
  Conclusion:-
  
  I used to hate Historic FPS but after playing this game, i've changed my mind ! Its an Instant 
 Classic ! The game is a bit short but you have different levels of difficultys to play on, its 
 very challenging!! Its a must play and a must own game!! 
  
  Graphics - 8/10
  
  Sound- 10/10
  
  Gameplay-9/10
  
  Overall- 9/10
  
   
 $rpi_g@mr :- Remember there is NO such thing as GAME OVER!!
  So keep GAMING.!!
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: zappa02
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jul 22, 2006 2:44 pm PT
Review:  This game was real good the difflculty was just right, the leaning curve takes
  about 30 minutes. The graphics are amzaing it look so realy , the gameplay is very good. But the 
 bad thing is the game is to short. And the sound is great, and the tilt was good. I have to say 
 this game is a great game go out and buy one. Do not make me say it five times This game was real 
 good the difflculty was just right, the leaning curve takes
  about 30 minutes. The graphics are amzaing it look so realy , the gameplay is very good. But the 
 bad thing is the game is to short. And the sound is great, and the tilt was good. I have to say 
 this game is a great game go out and
  buy one. This game was real good the difflculty was just right, the leaning curve takes
  about 
 30 minutes. The graphics are amzaing it look so realy , the gameplay is very good. But the bad 
 thing is the game is to short. And the sound is great, and the tilt was good. I have to say this 
 game is a great game go out and
  buy one. This game was real good the difflculty was just right, the leaning curve takes
  about 
 30 minutes. The graphics are amzaing it look so realy , the gameplay is very good. But the bad 
 thing is the game is to short. And the sound is great, and the tilt was good. I have to say this 
 game is a great game go out and
  buy one. This game was real good the difflculty was just right, the leaning curve takes
  about 
 30 minutes. The graphics are amzaing it look so realy , the gameplay is very good. But the bad 
 thing is the game is to short. And the sound is great, and the tilt was good. I have to say this 
 game is a great game go out and buy one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: leoisfat
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jul 20, 2006 12:02 pm PT
Review:  Call of Duty 2 for the PC is really good...... the singleplayer is kind of short, you could beat 
 it in a day if u try hard enough. It took me 2 or 3 days. If you put it on a hard difficulty it 
 could take a while. Anyways this game is cool.... the graphics are really good, they look real 
 especially on the D-Day level. Yes there is a D-Day level. The enemy aren't push overs anymore..... 
 in other ww2 games if u get close they bash you once, in this game if u get close they repeatedly 
 bash u and chase u. You can also feel the experience. The first level which is played as a russian 
 private....... you are taught how to shoot and throw grenades along wih a few comrades..... then 
 you recieve a message and go into battle during your training.
  
  Now to the multiplayer.......... i play the multiplayer almost everyday... especially one of the 
 game modes Search and Destroy which is if u die your out until the next round. There is also deathmatch 
 team deathmatch, capture the flag and others. You get to choose ur side and your weapon. I think 
 call of duty 2 online is very very good. I really recommend this game for online play alone as 
 well as singleplayer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Oche
Rating: 7.7
Date: Jul 20, 2006 10:14 am PT
Review:  I only played this game because i loaned it, after playing COD i decided i was not gonna buy COD 
 2 when i heard they were making it. I was VERY scheptical about this game and some of my fears 
 about it seem to have become real. I must admit that the ambience, action, intensity is SUPERB, 
 it really hooks you off, is addictive as hell. Each time i look at my watch 2 hours have passed. 
 You really think you're in Omaha beach, or tunisia, etc. Artificial Intelligence is very well done. 
 But ironically there is something i don't understand, like for example you have find cover to heal 
 yourself, the medpacks you found in other games are gone for sure!, maybe that's why there is more 
 room now for effects and intensity, but really not wanting to be unfair, COD2 FEELS LIKE A TWO 
 YEARS DELAYED PATCH FOR COD . Someone figured out that realism doesn't buy the audience but arcade 
 does, that explains the really lame MP mode, of which i cannot see any difference from COD 1. Either 
 i'm becoming a boring military realism enthusiast or the tendency for shooters like this one are 
 to have a very arcade approach. I've never decided to buy Day of Defeat, but after i finish making 
 this report, i'm gonna order it, because realism on War tactical and 3d shooters must be rewarded, 
 and playing the lacking MP mode of COD2 just encouraged me to explore other more realistic WW2 
 3d shooters. So i guess if it's WW2 shooter for MP it's gonna be either DOD or Red Orchestra so 
 far, COD2 really didn't quite make it for me.
  
  Bottom Line: If you liked COD's single player campaigns you MUST play COD2 NOW!!!! YOU DON'T KNOW 
 WHAT YOU ARE MISSING.
  
  Multiplayer?? same as COD, don't expect anytyhing new. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: asian_marine
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jul 19, 2006 9:51 pm PT
Review:  What can i say COD2 is an incredible game! This is so far by far the best ww2 shooter on the market, 
 and will probably stay that way until CoD3 comes out.
  
  The AI in this game is not revolutionary, but is pretty good. i like th fact that the nazis will 
 fallback and regroup and launch a counter attack and at other times will try to abush you. The 
 sounds is so immersive, be sure to have a good audio card though. The graphics are what really 
 impressed me the most though.
  
  There is a very distinct differene between the directx7 and 9 versions of the game. The x9 versions 
 is so much better, but it also taxs you GPU a lot more. so if you want more frame rates, go with 
 the x7 version.
  
  another cool things about this game is the health meter. There isn't one. That's so cool, as soon 
 as the red vision clears, your good to go. Although it does take away from the reality of have 
 to find a health kit, or try to be carefull. I like the way the developers designed this game, 
 it's made to make you feel like you're part of a larger war, of course which you are.
  
  I think my favorite part of the game is climbing the cliffs at point du hoc. absolutely thrilling 
 aspect of the game. Anyone who hasn't played this game needs to try it out some time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: istidarkman
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 16, 2006 8:37 am PT
Review:  Developed by Infinity Ward, Call of Duty 2 is in every way a sequel to the original. As in the 
 original, there are American, British and Russian campaigns, set from 1941-1945 - the Russians 
 fighting in the area around Moscow and Stalingrad, the British fighting in North Africa and Normandy, 
 and the Americans fighting in Normandy and Germany. This time out, though, you do not have to play 
 the three campaigns in a linear order. You'll be free to switch between campaigns this time - you 
 can jump from one campaign to the next to play through all the missions in chronological order, 
 play through each individual campaign, or jump back and forth as you please. There are 27 missions 
 in all where the first 7 are included in the Russian campaign, the next 13 in the English, and 
 the last 7 in the American campaign. The missions themselves are full of drama, dragging you ever 
 further into the unfolding action. 
  
  Call of Duty 2 plays in almost exactly the same way as the previous game with a few new additions. 
 Perhaps the biggest advancement over the previous installments was made in the visual department. 
 Large outdoor environments, detailed textures, weather effects, realistic explosions all put together 
 a solid performance. You have the option of letting the graphics engine choose what's best for 
 you of you can go full manual. The new system allows you to choose if you want to play DirectX 
 9 or DirectX 7. The effects and dynamic lighting give the game atmosphere - as bombs are going 
 off and the city streets are filled with dense smoke... If there is one thing negative to say about 
 the graphics though, it's the fact that you can't destroy vases or any other object except those 
 red explosive barrels. 
  
  Audio is also awesome when you hear explosions and bullets whizzing by your head. You gets orders, 
 threats, requests and maneuvers from your squad mates, even more unnerving is that you can hear 
 the enemy AI doing the same in their own language. And there's nothing quite as scary as the sound 
 of enemy armor approaching your lowly infantryman. The positional audio (with EAX3 enabled) is 
 immersing and breathtaking. 
  
  One of the biggest changes in the gameplay is the health system. Instead of a traditional health 
 bar and medkits, the developer has decided to use a system where if you take cover for a few seconds, 
 any damage you have taken will disappear. You can still virtually die, but you're more like Terminator 
 now. That may sound like the game is too easy and in some ways it can be, but you'll find yourself 
 restarting from the last checkpoint many times - especially on the higher difficulty where you'll 
 get killed in one or two shots. There is also a grenade indicator - something I want to see in 
 every shooter from now on. When the enemy is rude enough to toss a grenade in your general vicinity 
 an indicator appears in the center of the screen with an arrow pointing to the grenade's location. 
 Its very handy to know where the grenade landed, and get away from it. 
  
  Another notable improvement is with the AI of both friends and foes. Although there are a lot of 
 parts in the game which are obviously scripted, the German soldiers hide, attack, and retreat when 
 they need to and using tactics like flanking and throwing grenades. At the higher difficulty levels 
 the enemies will adopt more player type behaviors like pitching all the grenades they can, so there 
 is some replay value :P Also your squad mates do a very capable job of attacking the enemy and 
 doing so with a good degree of coordination. 
  
  You can only carry 2 weapons at a time, plus your smoke grenade and standard grenade. This can 
 be two rifles or machine guns, not necessarily one smaller and one larger weapon. The selection 
 on hand is as you'd expect from the era, so there's nothing really new here - M1 Carbine, M1 Garand, 
 Thompson, Browning Automatic Rifle, Springfield, Colt 45, PPSh, Mosin-Nagant, Mosin-Nagant (with 
 scope) , Lee Enfield, SVT 40, Sten, Bren LMG, MP40, MP44, Kar98, Kar98 Scoped, Luger, Panzerfaust, 
 MG42. Smoke grenades are your best friend and they have a noticeable effect on the AI, once deployed, 
 the smoke grenade lets you move about without threat. 
  
  After playing through the intense single-player, you can take it online just like the original 
 Call of Duty. Multiplayer is fun and offers plenty of variety. You can choose between Deathmatch, 
 Team Deathmatch, Capture the Flag, HQ (both sides trying to establish a base, or Headquarters, 
 while the other side has to try and destroy it and then set up their own HQ) , and Seek and Destroy 
 modes (your team working to destroy a certain object without being killed) - each with a whole 
 array of settings to customize at your leisure. The game comes with 13 maps, including 3 remakes 
 from the original Call of Duty, and support for up to 32 players. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Distortion_Lane
Rating: 7.7
Date: Jul 14, 2006 11:07 pm PT
Review:  Call of Duty 2 does deliver some great moments by drawing the player in with dialogue from comrades 
 and great graphics. 
  
  Gameplay:
  +Play solo but feel as though you're in a team
  +No looking for health packs 
  +No saving and frequent check points
  +Tank driving and use 
 of smoke grenades is quite well done
  -repetative gameplay (especially without looking for health all you're doing is shooting)
  -the 
 multipayer shotgun is not in the game (ya it wouldn't be realistic but could have been an exra)
 
  -short
  -British campaigh is the longest one (I can't stand british accent!)
  -Nothing but multiplayer once you beat it
  -No score system and no way to check your accuracy 
 after a mission
  +Multiplayer does have some neat maps
  -invisible walls
  -no replay
  
  Graphics:
  +Nice use of direct x 9 features
  +Direct x 7 compatiple (so it could run on 
 low spec machines or gfx cards)
  +Russian campaign looks awesome 
  +Great atmosphere in the rainy american levels
  +Awesome smoke effects
  -bad sky textures
 
  -inconsistent detail (desert levels don't look all that great)
  -not as much variety as one would hope
  
  Sound:
  +guns sound alright
  +good music
  -germans 
 speak german, but russians speak english? wtf!? (no native language option like in splinter cell: 
 chaos theory)
  -some screams get really annoying
  
  Value:
  -as mentioned before its short and repetative
  +good multiplayer
  
  If you can get this game 
 cheap, then buy it, otherwise might wanna rent a 360 version or play at a friends house first.
 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Valkyrie_44
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jul 14, 2006 10:08 am PT
Review:  Infiniiy Ward developed another good title with this game, comes with well rounded features and 
 forigivng specifications. Even that die hard gamer you know who has a AMD Athlon 1700+ can play 
 the game.
  
  The only thing that gave me a slightly negitive impact was the graphics, even with my X1900XT video 
 card alot of 2GB DDR2 RAM its too bad I couldn't get the same pretty graphics as FEAR. This doesn't 
 mean that COD2 is ugly, in fact its very nice looking, and the smoke effects are a plus.
  
  The sound is great, the nearby explosions and the weapons fire are really on the mark when you 
 are able to discern the types of weapons in the environment being used.
  
  Multiplayer, its the same faire as the previous iterations, alot of it is deathmatch and team deathmatch. 
 Its a kill or be killed environment. Out of the box COD2 does not come with Punkbuster, but it 
 has been patched on.
  
  This is one of those games that do well in a LAN Party environment. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: oblivion2403
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jul 13, 2006 9:13 am PT
Review:  The first thing that really hit me about this game is the graphics. They're amazing. Everything 
 seems to be how it should be: rough textures on dammaged buildings, smooth yet ruffled clothing 
 and fantastic scenery and conditions. 8/10!
  
  Theres only one word for the sounds: immersive! Everything from gunshots to soldiers chatting to 
 ambience really sets the scene brilliantly. You do almost feel like your there. 7/10!
  
  Multiplayer is also great too! It's explosive, and will fill your days with hours of fun. Smoke 
 grenades, however, REALLY frustrate me. If you havn't got a particually good PC, you might find 
 things really slowing down. Sometimes it's just a case of shoot 'n' hope. The same applies with 
 single player. 7/10
  
  The variety of missions and weapons are really what this game is about. It's packed with realism 
 and a whole range of missions (Moscow, El Alamein, Normandy) and several great weapons (Mosin Nagant, 
 Sten, Thompson) . It's this that does the game justice. This alone is worth the price tag! 9/10
 
  
  Overall, a great game. If you love or like first-person shooters. I highly recommend this! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cellbamp
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jul 13, 2006 6:16 am PT
Review:  This game is based on the American marines that landed on point du hoc on D-Day and fought the 
 german war machine up onto the crossing of the Rhine.
  The graphics are amazing and compared to other pc ww2 games this is superb. It has good raf doll 
 effects when a person is hit by a grenade the body immedietly reacts aand very well and there is 
 a long and satisfying campaign to it. The action in this game is very saisfying as you are immersed 
 in a feeling of panic and courage as you shoot your enemy opens fire on you .
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Inuyasha_Iic
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jul 12, 2006 10:10 pm PT
Review:  Call of Duty 2 was really a big increase from the original Call of Duty. It's extremely fun, good 
 graphics, and keeps you busy. One thing I really like is the open areas. It made it so you actually 
 had to hide in places to get past the enemy. Grenades played too big of a part. When you couldn't 
 pick off anybody with your gun, just toss a grenade in and watch their bodies fly. One tiny boring 
 thing about this game is when you get to a part where you have to hold your position and keep the 
 base clean of all enemies. You could be there for 20-30 minutes just watching and waiting to kill 
 more people. There is also little variation in the way to fight, just go in get the same weapon 
 you've been using the entire game, walk around walls and shoot all the enemies. But all that doesn't 
 matter. Constant action, keeping you on your toes is all you need to realize anything but, YES!
 
  Like I said this is a must have for all PC owners. Get it ASAP. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: protossdragoon
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jul 12, 2006 1:01 am PT
Review:  Call of duty 2 was a game which improved both graphical and gameplay elements of the first episode. 
 here there will be new campagins and battles to fight. first u start out as the Russians trying 
 to take back their cities from the gremans. after that u play as the desert rats (the British) 
 and this is where the game starts to get interesting. The new desert area of the game gives the 
 player a whole new experence to the game. This is also the only campagin where u get to drive a 
 veichle which is a tank and it was also done quite well. The best thing about the game is the graphics 
 and that is what i liked about it. but then after a few more missions, u get to experence the same 
 old clearing a room or rooms of germans in the town and it is very furstritating. the worse part 
 is that this has been done too many times in the game and brings some repetitivness which makes 
 u wish if there will be something different other than clearing rooms. The ai was not much different 
 from the first one except that now they throw granades at u. stil when u are clearing rooms, most 
 of the time u get to go alone. somthimes they follow u and sometimes they don't. there was not 
 very much experence of "suqad based shooterto it except the illusion of yur teamates backing 
 u up and getting killed faster than the clips that u have used. overall. the game improved over 
 the first episode and brought more better experience to it. for people that liked the first one, 
 this is for You. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HellsKing
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 10, 2006 7:16 am PT
Review:  This game had me going from the moment I found myself in a jeep heading for a city out in the middle 
 of the desert. Planes flyn and burning over head while dust was blowing in my face! Great graphics 
 and beautiful aiming system, they should make all real life first person shooters like this. The 
 great thing of this game is that you get to play as the Russians, English, American's or even the 
 Germans ( who Italy beat in the world cup this year, go Italia) . The graphics are perfect for all 
 computers and the sound is just amazing! The gameplay keeps you on your feet and moving. All in 
 all it's just an nonstop bad ass action pack game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Brendissimo35
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jul 9, 2006 7:25 am PT
Review:  I felt that call of duty 2 was a very good shooter, almost as good as its predecessor, but it is 
 very much the same thing. IT gets boring, ulness you are addicted to the multiplayer. THe graphics, 
 sound, and gameply are all great, but its simply doesnt hold interest for very long. I felt the 
 russian campiagn was boring, although the american and british ones were interesting, and I think 
 they wasted an oppourtunity with not making a german one. In any case, the game was far from revolutionary, 
 playing on concepts from previous games, but the single player was decently exciting, and the multiplayer 
 is better than the first. Its worth your buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sime47
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jul 8, 2006 4:22 pm PT
Review:  Today there is a lot of games with theme of WWII and lot of them are good like Brothers In Arms, 
 Commandos, Medal Of Honor, Battlefield... But there is something missing in there and that is the 
 felling that you are in WWII and Call Of Duty 2 is the game with that felling. You are on battlefield 
 with hundreds of soldiers which are very clever and there is always shooting around, explosions... 
 You can almost lose yourself and shoot everywere. You are just one soldier and you are not commanding 
 any team. You are just responsible for your life. Graphic in the game is very great. Great animations, 
 nice enviorment, a lot of happenings. This is also the WWII game with the best sounds. I already 
 told you about gameplay. There is 3 campaigns in the game and they are very variable. Also there 
 are 4 difficulties and there is a big replayvalue. This is the best WWII game so... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: timbo0827
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jul 8, 2006 3:36 pm PT
Review:  Call of Duty 2 is probably one of the greatest games made that is based on World War 2. Although 
 it is a little short and in ways very easy Call of Duty 2 is highly addictive. The graphics are 
 amazing, especially the explosions and smoke effects. CoD2 also has some of the most advanced AI 
 I have ever seen. Allies will ask for assistance during combat while your enemy will try to outflank 
 you. The only bad thing about Call of Duty 2 is the way your health is. Your health is a feature 
 in which you get shot so many times you will be told to take cover to recover. Overall Call of 
 Duty 2 is a game no one should miss and everyone will enjoy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Camaro4ever
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jul 7, 2006 8:28 am PT
Review:  Activision did a perfect job in making COD2 a perfect shooter for pc. While the multiplayer is 
 not like Battlefield 2, it offers mayhem and some good moments. The single-player is amazing, the 
 enemies try so hard to flank you. The friendly-ai is also spot-on. The single-player campaign is 
 very immersive and almost to realistic, you will sweat. That about sums up this game that was underappreciated 
 on the pc. I'll be playing it for a long time, a lot of mod potential. I wish it had more weapons, 
 while it does have more than the previous installments, it does feel repetitive sometimes. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HAMODA
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jul 5, 2006 6:47 am PT
Review:  this is what i think on cod2
  
  i played three missions of the British, and finished the Soviet campaign. i found that the graphics 
 are great and ur specs dont need to be that high. I love the game, .Gameplay is great, graphics 
 are excellent and sound is very realistic, u feel as if u were really in ww2
  
  here are some problems i found with it.
  
  1. Health IW decided that health regeneration was 
 the way to go. they decided that if u get hit by the enemy and straight away afterwards look for 
 cover and hide ur health regenerates which aint realistic, i honestly dont like that. my suggestion: 
 dont regenarate have more medics or health packs.
  
  2. Movement: There is no sprint option that I can see, and I hope this is modded in at some point, 
 somehow. Right now, you can run at "normal" speed with no issues of exhaustion. My suggestion: 
 bring back the sprint. i always like to use sprint in a sticky situation.
  
  3. Vehicles: no vechiles in multiplayer. i heard that they want to be original and not like battlefield 
 but still it ads character and i love riding vechiles over my enemy.
  
  great things in the game is:
  
  1: when u kill omeone in multiplayer. e. g. i killed u. the 
 u will see a replay of what i saw before i killed u. u can even see when i sniped in. now u can 
 never camp. i hate campers
  
  this gameisn't perfect but lots of fun so i suggest u buy it or win it. u wont be dissapionted.
 
  
  gameplay 8
  
  graphics 9
  
  sound 8
  
  missions 9
  
  multiplayer 9
  
  overall 43/50
  
  that aint bad as i judge games harshly.
  
  well thats my review
  just 
 as a ps. single player is really short finish it in 4 hours
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: cbsbyte
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 5, 2006 2:24 pm PT
Review:  This is a great shooters game. It has fast paced, intense gameplay. With very good graphics, sound 
 and AI. IMHO, Unlike other period shooters, where one is a super solider taking on the whole German 
 army, in CoD2 the player is only a cog in the wheel of the Allied War machine and only a small 
 part to the overall conflict. The player will be given certain task to preform, such as blowing 
 up German bunkers or sniping enemy Mortar crews before they tak you out. There is no storyline 
 or plot to this game, so the battles are much more fluid, with men pressing on, and some dieing 
 as more soliders come to replace them. Overall it is one, if not the best WWII shooters out there 
 in the market. 
  
  As most know by now in ths game one starts off play as a conscript Russian solider fighting off 
 the Germans in frozen Stalingrad. Then when a few of those mission under the belt, the British 
 campaigns in the deserts of N. Arfica and then urban France, are unlocked, then finally the American 
 campaigns in France, and Germany. As you play a different solider in each campaign one will have 
 to get use to different weapons from each nation. The weapons all seem to be similar to each other 
 within their respective classes, such as sub-machine guns all seem to similar accuracy, and knock 
 down power. Though there magazine capacity is different. One can also pick up German weapons, and 
 gernades. And use German heavy machine guns and vehicles in limited roles. 
  
  The enemy AI is quite good, though in the harder levels they tend to charge positions, or wait 
 for you to make a move then react to it. They will flank when possible as others pin you down with 
 wither suppressive fire or they might hide in some bushes waiting for the player to pass. There 
 does seem to be alot of scripting on the battlefields, as certain action seem to play out the same 
 way each time you play. Though, the enemy AI will react different to the players moves. Your squad 
 mates are good in a supportive role though you have to lead the charge, across the terrian, your 
 teammates will then follow. New team mates are always spawned in when more are needed. 
  
  Issues I have with this game is the very linear gameplay. One is always moving through restricted 
 narrow areas. At times it is very confinig to be lead down city streets and be able to take cover 
 in buildings. Another issue is the non destructive enviorments. Very little of the world can be 
 damaged by gun fire. Only in scripted sequences do walls or buildings collapse. The player can 
 only destroy some small items like glass bottles. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: JestaDude
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jul 2, 2006 9:51 am PT
Review:  This game throws you straight into the action with all of its well placed and random events. Obviously 
 if you've played almost any WWII shooter, you're already familiar with the missions and point. 
 Fortunately though, Call of Duty 2 adds everything from tank missions, to completely random events 
 when you least expect them! While switching between two weapons (and the usual grenades of course) 
 you'll have to face of against waves and waves of enemy soldiers with some brutally impressive 
 AI. Objectives like having to defend a bunker with your squad for 10 minutes until help arrives 
 can get pretty intense, especially if you loose a lot of men and the enemies start to overrun your 
 position! This game has a bunch of great moments to remember. If you happen to have surrounds sound, 
 use it! If you can turn the bass up on your speakers, do it! This game is like playing through 
 a movie! It's simply amazing.
  
  If you have ever played a WWII shooter though, you may not be too impressed even with all of the 
 wonderful graphics and random events simply because you're already familiar with the plot. If you're 
 just looking for an awesome shooter for your PC or Xbox 360 though, this is the one to get.
  
  I loved the game. I hope you have just as much fun with it as I have had. Thanks for reading 
 and be sure to check out my other reviews some time! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Edward1211
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jun 29, 2006 5:26 pm PT
Review:  COD1 changed the way e looked at WWII shooters. The amazing gameplay and addicting multiplayer 
 was one of the best at its time. COD2 is no different. It bumped up the graphics engine and put 
 some new gameplay machanics and weapons too. The multiplayer is alot easyer to get into and just 
 play a quick round.
  
  Gameplay: The gamplay is still the same with some new features. You can jump over small cover's 
 so its a real tactical advantage for players to hop over cover and head toward the building without 
 getting hit by enemy fire. There are some new guns like British shotguns and pistols and snipers. 
 There are also some new russian auto rifle's. The gameplay is simple yet very fun. After you beat 
 the single player you should head to the multiplayer and see how good you are with out the cross 
 hair. 
  
  Graphics: Are amazing and are definatly an improvement from the origional. You can see the snow 
 on your comrades shoulders and also alot of detail on the face's. You really don't need a powerful 
 video crad to see the graphics on the highest level.
  
  Sound: is amazing!! The sound on the guns are top notch! You can really hear the bark of the Thompson 
 machine gun and the and the loud poping sound of the sniper and hearing the bullet hiss through 
 the air. The voices of you commrades are very cool and also help in the gameplay. The tell you 
 where the enemy is coming from and tell you objectives that you need to accomplish. 
  
  Value: There is a pretty good amount of lenght to the game heading to about 15-20 hours of just 
 single player gameplay. The enviorments are always different and have a really fun feel to them. 
 There is barley any back tracking. 
  
  Overall: COD2 is a very fun game that is really only for fans of the origional. It's also for people 
 who want something new to there WWII shooters. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: galstyan
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jun 27, 2006 3:44 pm PT
Review:  Call of Duty 2 is my favorite PC game so far. It is my favorite because it gives a very realistic 
 feeling of World War 2. This game has excellent sound, and that is probably what makes the game 
 so realistic. Also, the graphics are great and fit for any war game. The gameplay is superb, and 
 any fan of first person shooters will love it. As for the campaign mode, this game is very lengthy, 
 and it gives you a taste of the Russian, American, and British sides of the story. The multiplayer 
 is my personal favorite part of this game. It is very challenging, but fun. So, what I am saying 
 is, this is a great game, and you have to play it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zhonginator
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jun 26, 2006 10:55 am PT
Review:  Overview:
  The good: excellent graphics, astounding AI, awesome and diverse single-player campaign, fun multiplayer
 
  
  The bad: Call of Duty 2's very high system requirements can make teh game slow down very often, 
 especially when settings are turned all the way up.
  
  If you liked liked the original Call of Duty and have denied yourself to the experierence of Call 
 of Duty 2, DO NOT WAIT ANY LONGER!! Buy it today. Call of Dut y2 is one of the best PC I've ever 
 played. Excellent graphics, very realistic, smart and asoutning enemy AI, and just excellent overall. 
 
  
  However, all the good graphics and gameplay of Call of Dut y 2 have come at a price: the game requires 
 very advnaced and state-of-the-art computers to run. If you just meet the minimum system requirements, 
 especially in the areas of CPU speed, RAM, and video card, I do not recommend buying the game unless 
 you're willing to deal with one of the following:
  1) Your game will run extremely slow and there will be many technical issues, such as slow loading, 
 low frame rates, and blurred graphics.
  2) You will have to turn down the settings, making the graphics of Call of Duty 2 look much worse 
 than it could be. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: atomicskis55
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jun 25, 2006 8:57 pm PT
Review:  Call of Duty is back and kicking!!!! The sequel to the hit game Call of Duty lives up to the high 
 standards of its older brother. With this game, there was much hype about if it would live up to 
 be as great as the original. With much improved graphics, a. i., and even a new health system, Call 
 of Duty 2 for the PC is one good game. 
  
  The graphics in this game are simply breathtaking, from the snowy villages in Stalingrad, to the 
 Coast of France, this game is graphically stunning. This game is sure to give any video card a 
 workout.
  
  The game-play of this game is magnificent. You can spend hours upon hours with the single player 
 campaign alone. The replay value is great due to the difficulty settings. Then, you can see what 
 you are really made of when you go online. The multiplayer mode is hours upon hours of fun, whether 
 youre new to the game, and expert, or just looking for a challenge.
  
  The sound is another thing of beauty. The gunfire makes it feel and sound like you are actually 
 shooting down the nazis.
  
  If youve got 50 bux burning a whole in your pocket, go out and buy this game (but make sure your 
 system can play this beastly game) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bwms12345
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jun 24, 2006 8:20 pm PT
Review:  First of all I want to say that this game is amazing. It makes you feel like you are actually fighting 
 in world war 2. One of this games strongest points is the sound. Running from cover to cover, hearing 
 bullets wiz by with mortar round going off around you mixed with the voices of your fellow soldiers 
 is an amazing experiance. Mix that with the amazing graphics gives you a amazing experiance. This 
 game can make you realize the bravery of soldiers and the horrors of war. 
  
  The controls in the game work very well. The game puts you in many varying places, allowing you 
 to experiance all parts of the war. One of the complaints I have though is that the tank levels 
 arent very well done and feel kind of like a side game. Some of the levels also feel similair. 
 You will find yourself taking houses that look very similair over and over again. This isnt a very 
 big problem though. 
  
  Being a world war 2 game you may think it will be more of the same, but there are some points that 
 make the game stand out. My favorite is D-Day. Instead of crossing the beach you find yourself 
 climbing up cliffs on to a huge battle ground. Though this level is well designed My favorite by 
 far would have to be the 2nd mission on hill 400. There is nothing more exiting (although it wouldnt 
 be to fun in real life) than charging up a hill with mortars ond bullets going off all around you. 
 
  
  One part of the game that I enjoyed were the quotes given to you when you died. The last complaint 
 I have is that the levels are pretty linear although it doesnt really distract you from the experiance. 
 The multiplayer is a nice add on but it doesnt really do anything special.
  
  All in all COD2 is an amazing game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 2FacedJanus
Rating: 8.2
Date: Jun 25, 2006 9:34 am PT
Review:  Call of Duty 2 is the sequel to the multi-award winning WW2 shooter Call of Duty. You play as either 
 a British, American or Russian soldier during the single-player campaign and get to kill a whole 
 bunch of Nazis with a presentation that easily matches the Oscar-winning movie "Saving Private 
 Ryan". The game is very cinematic and spectacular visuals and audio creates one of the most thrilling 
 World War 2 experiences found anywhere. 
  
  You start your first mission in the besieged city of Stalingrad where the game tutorial kicks in, 
 you should a couple of things, bash something with your rifle and move on to throwing potatoes 
 as hand-grenade practice. One thing thats you quickly pick up is that you immediately feel like 
 youre in a war by hearing distant gunfire and explosions. Though as soon as battle starts it becomes 
 even more so with screaming fellow soldiers and Nazis. What they scream is very context sensitive 
 though, get discovered by the Nazis and theyll immediately scream your faction and your location, 
 throw a grenade and theyll yell that theres a grenade and either run away or throw it back. Your 
 team-mates do the exact same thing which makes you overall better aware of your battlefield and 
 it just enhances the thrill.
  
  The game is filled with thrilling moments including the obligatory massive Normandy beach landing 
 where as soon as you jump out of your boat you get struck by artillery fire and you lie half-awake 
 on the beach as you watch fellow soldiers burn, followed by hearing a faint voice saying youre 
 going to be ok as youre dragged off closer to the cliffs, watching another medic behind you carrying 
 a wounded soldier and then getting completely filled with bullets. Such experiences are what truly 
 makes this game so great and immersive. Another one is where you are defending a German field HQ 
 you captured moments ago where the counter-attack becomes heavier and heavier as a Tiger tank approaches 
 and blasts away part of the HQ, making you speed up your movements to eliminate this huge threat. 
 Each mission is filled with soldiers either on the German side or both making battles sometime 
 seem as epic as those found in Braveheart though without the swords, make-up and kilts. The game 
 does feature a not-too-bright Scottish squadmate however.
  
  During the course of the missions youll be given various tasks, from clearing out tiger tanks 
 in your own tank, to directing artillery strikes, to sniping mortar teams. There a plenty of objects 
 and buildings from which youll encounter the Germans, youll never fight on an open field and 
 even when it seems like you do, there are bodies of cows to hide behind. Each mission has a very 
 open feel to it when looking around, but that feeling is wrong. The main problem I have with Call 
 of Duty 2 is how linear the campaign is. Sure you can go another route to your objective, but whether 
 youll survive remains in question. You see, your team-mates follow their own route. They dont 
 follow you, youre supposed to follow them. If you dont follow them youll likely end up overrun 
 by the Nazis. Another problem that appears is that your team-mates are very easily replaced, if 
 one dies another one just shows up, making you unable to care about them. Even though youre fighting 
 with a squad, youll always feel that its every man for himself. 
  
  Unlike its predecessor however this game doesnt feature a health-bar. Instead if you get hit 
 too much a message will appear saying youve been hurt and need to find cover, as well as the screen 
 being filled with a pulsing red border. This seems quite a step up from the health-bar but there 
 is a downside to this, get to cover and once you stop hearing your own heartbeat you can go back 
 in the action taking as many bullets as before, making the game fairly easy. Grenades are also 
 indicated, so if one is thrown near you but you didnt see you can still run away. This also reduces 
 the amount of challenge found in this game but I think we can all agree that getting killed like 
 that is quite annoying and makes the process very trial-and error otherwise.
  
  Another new element is that you have no crosshair and HUD, unless you are aiming over a target, 
 reloading or picking up weapons/ammo/grenades. However for shooting you'll definitely want to click 
 the right mouse button and look over the barrel of your weapon because it increases your accuracy 
 immensely, to the point where you can make headshots with your submachine gun from quite a distance, 
 but in general that doesn't really spoil the fun. There should be more allied weapons and ammo 
 throughout the campaign though. I found myself to be blasting through most missions using German 
 weapons and while they were good, the Thompson and BAR rifle just feel underused throughout the 
 game.
  
  In the visual department CoD 2 shines however. Showing incredible looking weapons, characters and 
 environments as well as on-screen effects when a grenade near you has gone off or when getting 
 hit. But what stands out most is the smoke found from burning objects to smoke-grenades. Combine 
 that with the high-quality sound effects from the massive amount of gunshots to screaming soldiers 
 and it truly gives you a very cinematic WW2 experience for as long as it last. 
  
  Yes because of CoD 2s single-player campaign is short. You can finish this game under 10 hours 
 which really is a shame because despite being too easy and very linear, you keep wanting for more 
 of this cinematic action. The multiplayer is a great way to squeeze some life out of this game 
 but it isnt really bringing anything new to the table except for one new mode.
  
  Headquarters, in this mode there are two points on the map in which the teams can set up a Headquarters, 
 once one HQ is set up the points for that team begin to rise and the other team must overtake it. 
 However the defending team cannot respawn when they die until the HQ is either overrun or until 
 the round expires. If that happens there will be two new locations on the map where the teams can 
 race to and set up a HQ, and so it goes on. This mode is arguably the most enjoyable out of all 
 of the multiplayer modes found in CoD2.
  
  In short CoD2 is quite a great game despite its flaws and length. Its a game for the lazy person 
 who really doesnt want too much asked of him/her and just wants a really good time shooting up 
 a bunch of evil Nazis. All things are pointing that infinity ward was shooting for this and they 
 have succeeded greatly by offering a very good one-shot rollercoaster ride. However if youre only 
 interested in the single-player I dont feel like the full-price is justified. But as far as renting 
 a game to play through the weekend this is a very good choice.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: gstonyr
Rating: 8.2
Date: Jun 23, 2006 7:23 pm PT
Review:  Call of Duty 2 is a good game, but it lacks the personal character. When I played the original, 
 I would try to keep my friends alive no mater what, even when I beat the mission, and I lost a 
 man, I would replay the mission, and try to save my men, but here I find the characters arent 
 so personal, and you dont get as attached to them. I find the storyline as a classical wwll war 
 story, I find it more like a move, and destroy mode. Witch really brings down the gameplay. 
  The multiplayer is nothing special, and is the same as original, and there is no stat server like 
 bf2, and no classical game ideas like the original Medal of Honor with the freeze tag, more. Since 
 the multiplayer isn't so great I had no choice but to lower the gameplay, and the value. I was 
 also expecting more of a challenge like united offence.
  The graphics are amazing, and are one of the best to date. The sound is great, and it still has 
 that background sound, and the realistic gunshots. Like I said personally I was a little disappointed, 
 so that killed the tilt.
  Hope you read this review, and liked it, anyway, please see my other call of duty reviews, and 
 all my others, and please leave a feedback.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: cmiquila
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 22, 2006 8:23 pm PT
Review:  This game is probably better than Call of Duty and United Offensive, but it is still focused in 
 the war Europe. Gameplay is very good and has been improved from the first games which was something 
 hard to do, but still a bit repetitive as it still the European Theater of WWII, just seen from 
 another perspective
  
  However, it will be good to see something on the Pacific Theater for some of the missions on the 
 Russian side that were a bit repetitive. Maybe Call of Duty 3?
  
  Nevertheless, playing it is an excellent experience and overall it is a great game, highly recommended
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: AzDraon
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jun 20, 2006 12:19 pm PT
Review:  CoD2 is just as good as the original, just one problem, it is exatcly the same as the original 
 one. The only difference I could really find betweeen these two games was that CoD2 has a taken 
 you drive for 2 missions, and a Jeep you drive in, and updated graphics. There were some levels 
 that were engaging, others that I felt I was just replaying a mission in CoD. I did not play the 
 multiplayer on this game, but it sounded like a lot of cheaters were doing things for a while. 
 This game really had no replayability for me, but if you were big into the second one and could 
 not wait for 2 or 3 to come out. This one is for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xxxgangsta
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 20, 2006 12:10 pm PT
Review:  like in all my reviews i say that this game is cool , great , amazing in anather words its amazing 
 like first call of duty part , but this was realy good because it had realistic game play , wonderfull 
 places , sound was great like all call of duty parts it has shooting worth 10 points . It allso 
 wasnt very long game about 1 h longer then 1'st part , I liked that germans were more agressive 
 , but easy killed ... One thing i realy didnt like that was ending I didnt understand it realy 
 at call of duty the end was realy the end but in second part it was dificult to understant it .... 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HUNTO1
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jun 17, 2006 9:39 pm PT
Review:  This is a great game with great graphics and incredible gameplay. The mission always in a WW2 game 
 is D-Day, but they put you in a different location on D-Day at Point Du Hoc. Just like the 1st 
 CoD you have Russian missions, British missions, and American missions. The British campaign in 
 my opinion is the best one of all, and the American one is OK. Overall the game has better graphics 
 compared to the 1st CoD and the gameplay is the same. You may not run the game unless you have 
 an outstanding graphics card though. I think the multiplayer sucks. I think they could have put 
 more effort into the campaigns. They are generic. Overall the game is decent and is definitely 
 a WW2 FPS lover's buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Wirbelwind1038
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jun 16, 2006 8:52 pm PT
Review:  Call Of Duty, when I finally bought it back in 2004, was my favorite game of all time. Then came 
 the expansion which, though short, was absolutley fantastic. When I heard that the long anticipated 
 sequal was being released I simply had to get it. I was nervous though: this was a next gen. game, 
 and I had ATI Radeon 9600; "oooooh". Thankfully, that Christmas I got a brand new, top of the line 
 NViDIA GeForce 6800, as well as the game! Now the original has been all but whiped away from my 
 mind as this brand new WWII FPS fan's Mesiah has emerged, and it is Call Of Duty 2 ! When I finally 
 beat the game I felt so accomplished, and yet I yearned for more, more ! I LOVED the last level, 
 Crossing The Rheine, and it made me hanker for the hopeful news of an expansion, but none came. 
 Now, nearly 7 months later, my cravings have been wavered by my discovery of Elder Scrolls IV: 
 Oblivion, but I will always be waiting for an expansion and/or sequel to what I have long since 
 come to think of THE greatest FPS ever !!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: marijuana_man2
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jun 16, 2006 11:44 am PT
Review:  The sequel to the first Call of Duty, COD II is a great game that still sticks to the formula it's 
 predacessor did, the graphics are amazing, and as usual the sound is surpassed by the constant 
 noise of gunshots, exsplosions, and orchestra in a good, voice-acting is top-notched, and the A. I. 
 in this game are actually not stupid, when see you they'll go for cover, and when they are down, 
 they'll either crawl, or take out their Luger and try to kill you....
  
  But what really bugs me is that there's no Italians in the game, after all, Mussolini did invaded 
 Africa, but they're just Germans in different colored uniforms, and of course the regenerating 
 it's not realistic, after all people do bleed to death real life...
  
  What I also like is the multiplayer, and now punkbuster is added in the patches , no one can aimbot, 
 and all the custom maps are now able to download, and amount of people playing COD II is Ridiculous, 
 COD II is one of many games that will never go stale... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dsking41
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jun 15, 2006 6:23 am PT
Review:  for those hwo like WW2 Games like me you must have this game.
  14 hours of Unstop action.
  i have completed in Easy Level and Now im in Normal (Regular)
  the game bring the FAS (First Action 
 Shooter) to next level.
  What that i didn't like in this game it's why we play only 3 missions with the Russians and 3 missions 
 with the Americans?
  I mean the USA Army is the most wanted played level
  If you like games like:
  Brothers in Arms
  Serious Sam 
  you're gonna like this game a lot 
 like me.
  i give it a 9.4
  Very Good AI And graphics
  
  Just couple words: BUY IT NOW! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hvarregaard
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jun 14, 2006 5:10 am PT
Review:  World War 2 game
  
  The Game is very good and is recomended. The sound in the game er so fantastic. When you are on 
 the big battlefield can you hear a lot of sreaming and soldiers who are yelling all over the place. 
 So if you have soruond sound will you really fell like you are in the battle. The graphic is one 
 of the most beautiful I have ever seen. And the detajls is very very realistic, and when you shoot 
 somebody the blood is every where.
  
  The game is the best in th eCall of Duty series and is a lot better than all the others World War 
 2 games.
  
  So if you are wild with World War 2 games and first-person Shooter this is the game for you.
 
  
  P. S. The only minus with the game and is also a big one, is that you can bee to quick to finish 
 the game, but if you take the touhgest where to finish it takes about 4-5 days. So don't start 
 playing easy but realistic...!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MrSkull016
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jun 11, 2006 11:44 am PT
Review:  this is what i think on cod2 
  
  i played three missions of the British, and finished the Soviet campaign. i found that the graphics 
 are great and ur specs dont need to be that high. I love the game, .Gameplay is great, graphics 
 are excellent and sound is very realistic, u feel as if u were really in ww2 
  
  here are some problems i found with it. 
  
  1. Health IW decided that health regeneration was 
 the way to go. they decided that if u get hit by the enemy and straight away afterwards look for 
 cover and hide ur health regenerates which aint realistic, i honestly dont like that. my suggestion: 
 dont regenarate have more medics or health packs. 
  
  2. Movement: There is no sprint option that I can see, and I hope this is modded in at some point, 
 somehow. Right now, you can run at "normal" speed with no issues of exhaustion. My suggestion: 
 bring back the sprint. i always like to use sprint in a sticky situation. 
  
  3. Vehicles: no vechiles in multiplayer. i heard that they want to be original and not like battlefield 
 but still it ads character and i love riding vechiles over my enemy. 
  
  great things in the game is: 
  
  1: when u kill omeone in multiplayer. e. g. i killed u. the 
 u will see a replay of what i saw before i killed u. u can even see when i sniped in. now u can 
 never camp. i hate campers 
  
  this gameisn't perfect but lots of fun so i suggest u buy it or win it. u wont be dissapionted. 
 
  
  gameplay 8 
  
  graphics 9 
  
  sound 8 
  
  missions 9 
  
  multiplayer 9 
  
  overall 43/50 
  
  that aint bad as i judge games harshly. 
  
  well 
 thats my review 
  just as a ps. single player is really short finish it in 4 hours 
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: TwisstedLogic
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jun 11, 2006 10:37 am PT
Review:  Simply put, this game rocks! At least the single-player part does.
  
  I bought F. E. A. R. because I heard it was the best-of-the-best in terms of graphics. Well, COD2 
 in my opinion blows F. E. A. R. away in the quality and believability of graphics. In short, the graphics 
 are awesome. And with COD2 on full eye-candy, it runs WAY faster than F. E. A. Rgo figure. But thats 
 a tribute to Infinity Wards effort of re-writing the graphics engine themselves. It shows, and 
 really makes a difference.
  
  Soundis awesome. There is an unbelievable level of realism when youre lying prone behind a pile 
 of rubble to avoid the barrage of bullets whizzing over your head, and you hear the metallic clink 
 of a enemy grenade landing just on the other side of the rubble. You stay where you arealmost 
 coweringhoping the rubble protects you from the imminent blast of the grenade. And then it detonates. 
 For a few seconds, all you can hear is the blast of the grenade and the subsequent debris falling 
 all around you. The smoke and dust keeps you from returning fire, but you may decide to use it 
 as cover and get the heck out of there.
  
  Moving on to the AI. Best Ive seen so far. Of course, the industry still has a lot of room to 
 grow here, but it keeps getting better for us gamers. In COD2, the enemy will flank you, team up 
 on you, and just when you think you have a good hiding spottheyll grenade you. Ive played a 
 lot of FPS in single-player (my favorite due to my flaky Internet connection) and Im always left 
 a bit disappointed. This is the first FPS where I actually sat back and said to myselfHoly smoke, 
 those guys are really good. Your teams AI is also pretty good, but you dont see it as much because 
 youre not really watching what they are doing. Sometimes they make forward, covering, or flanking 
 maneuvers that really work, other times they just run out in the street, crouch and die. There 
 is an obvious triggering system where they wait until you move some distance away from them before 
 they maneuver to the next building, hedgerow, etc. But its still pretty good. I like the fact 
 that they stay with you no matter where youre going, but it took some getting used to. For example, 
 Id be in a battle with my forces suppressing the enemy and Id get the idea to flank. However 
 as I flanked, my forces followed me. With my forces moving and no longer suppressing the enemy, 
 I really wasnt flanking anymore, rather I was just moving the core firefight to another location.
 
  
  I didnt like the auto-healing system at first, but that was because the first couple levels are 
 pretty easy. Once I moved into the harder levels, I REALLY liked the auto-healing system. It kept 
 the action hot and heavy without me having to leave it every few minutes to find med kits. With 
 the combination of auto-healing and both friendly and enemy forces that keep spawning until you 
 occupy some trigger point, it makes for battles that rage on for a long time with lots of covering, 
 displacing, occupying, retreatingand then the same thing all over again. To me, this is a lot 
 of fun and is what I would expect from real battle. You fight hard to gain a few feet, hold it 
 for just a while, and then youre pushed back by a successful enemy maneuver. You take up a defensible 
 position, fight off the enemy push, then regroup and re-take the same few feet you had only minutes 
 ago. Eventually, you make it far enough to capture the objectiveand when you do, it really feels 
 like you earned it.
  
  My recommendation is to play the game on the hardest setting for the first half of the game (through 
 the end of the first British set of levels) , then play the rest at the second-hardest setting. 
 In the second half of the game, at the hardest setting, youll find yourself replaying scenes dozens 
 of times and trying to learn the timings and patterns of the enemy. Thats just not fun. So turn 
 down the difficulty one level, ignore the enemy AIs timings, and just play like you were really 
 there.
  
  In conclusion, I applaud Infinity Ward on an awesome game. Theyve pushed the envelope in terms 
 of graphics and AI, and chosen the right combinations of game features that perfectly balance the 
 reality of WW2 combat with super-fun FPS game play.
  
  I cant wait to play their next title.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: stealth89
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jun 10, 2006 7:42 pm PT
Review:  gameplay: missions get slightly repetitve, but you forget all about that when your running for 
 dear life to try and find some cover from the barrage of enemy bullets wizzing all around you and 
 your fellow soldiers.
  graphics: excellent maps, textures, and character models, and the guns are pretty well detailed, 
 and the smoke effects are awesome. but, alas, it has its flaws.. some bland textures here and there, 
 and the blood is not exactly blood-looking... a bit to pink.
  sound: wow. the sound. in order to get the full effect of CoD2's sound, you need a pretty massive 
 surround sound speaker set for your computer. but, even with headphones, you feel like your right 
 in the middle of a real firefight.
  but, the thing that meakes me love this game is the multiplayer - with a very nice selection of 
 maps, the 5 different game modes, ability to choose any weapon from the game (allie or axis pending) , 
 the constant meeting of new challenges... its awesome. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Homes225
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 9, 2006 8:56 am PT
Review:  Call of duty 2 was released after the WWII FPS era where every developer tried to release a good 
 WWII FPS and it got old so COD 2 had a lot to live up to since it was the sequel to the great COD. 
 The first thing one usually notices about COD 2 is the sweet next gen graphics and the thing about 
 them is they don't need an uber computer to run them. Gameplay is a huge difference than other 
 FPS's, which is good, with artillery shells flying over your head as the screen shakes and bullets 
 hit the ground in front of you. COD2 really makes you think you are in WWII and even more so if 
 you have a good quality sound system because it has great sound effects all around. Call of Duty 
 2 takes around 10 to 12 hours to complete with all of its missions ranging from the Russians in 
 the snow, England in Egypt, and the US in germany. There are many weapons such as the M1 Carbine 
 and ST-44 which are also historyically accurate just like the battlefields. The multiplayer also 
 brings new maps and fun gameplay which lasts a longtime. Though Call of Duty 2 has many great features 
 it also has some downsides such as no health bar so you just hide behind cover for 5 seconds to 
 gain full health making it unrealistic. As with any FPS sometimes the enemy models glitch and the 
 MP doesn't have the best anticheat protection so hackers can be common. Other than its minor faults, 
 Call of Duty 2 is a must have WWII FPS with lasting play and great graphics that make it not just 
 another first person shooter game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: delta01138
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 8, 2006 8:56 pm PT
Review:  This game is probably going to be in many gaming award shows. Looks great and sounds better. The 
 enemy AI is defenetly smarter. The weapon graphics are much, much, much better. The storyline is 
 pretty accurate and has quite a bit of humor (Macklowsky is hillarious!) . This game deserves like, 
 1000 awards and people will always be fans! Though it does seem to have the same objectives from 
 the first game such as kill these people, destroy this, or get this. The game is a must try (but 
 i reccomend it to be a must HAVE) due to its overall greatness. I cant wait to see what Activision 
 and Infinity Ward are gonna do with the CoD sieries. All have been great and all I have played. 
 Over all, it is a great, must have, kick a$$ game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MedoX5
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jun 8, 2006 1:33 am PT
Review:  This game is a very nice and i think - if i'm not wrong - this is the best action game dealing 
 with world war 2 because it makes you feel that you are in this war, and don't want to forget that 
 the game engine was excellent and the graphics - even i played it on low graphic - were very good 
 i don't know what can i say about that game it is amazing and i'm waiting the next - not edition 
 but- editions and i wish i can find another game like this one, i know many of you will say there 
 is medal of honor but i'm saying that - for me - it isn't like call of duty 
::::::

::::::
UserName: geosparovany
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 4, 2006 5:12 pm PT
Review:  best sound 
  best story
  best graphic
  new wepons
  new areas
  
  u r in the ww2
  
  Call of Duty 2 redefines the cinematic intensity and chaos of battle as seen through the eyes 
 of ordinary soldiers fighting together in epic WWII conflicts. The sequel to 2003's Call of Duty, 
 winner of over 80 Game of the Year awards, Call of Duty 2 offers more immense, more intense, more 
 realistic battles than ever before, thanks to the stunning visuals of the new COD2 engine.
  brings you bigger battles, with more tanks, troops, and explosions on-screen, and bigger scope, 
 with a wide range of locales and environments across the European Theater. Fight "The Desert Fox" 
 across the scorching sands of North Africa as wave upon wave of tanks clash in the desert. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chuiv
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jun 3, 2006 10:16 pm PT
Review:  i just love world war 2 games. they're heart pounding, and will keep you playing for hours and 
 hours.
  first the game is very realistic, second muiltiplayers is very very addictive, third many weapons 
 to chose from, fourth .......... well there is no fourth.
  Can be hard in some parts in the game, will need an ok computer to play and internet must not be 
 very horrible, then theres really no point of playing online.
  o yah, fourth graphics very very nice. 
  the game can be very boring of you keep playing it. 
 Because all you do is shoot and hear people say "cherry's at the west ..... something or shoot those 
 bastards or see you in H E double hockey sticks. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: disbadaszfool
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jun 3, 2006 12:58 pm PT
Review:  COD2 is the best in the series of Call of Duty games. The graphics are amazing, the game play is 
 great, and the realism is real! The major set backs for me is:
  1) The Veteran difficulty. I don't see how Hardend can be so easy, and then it just like leaps 
 10x and you cant even go out in to cover without getting shot. 
  2) Your teams AI, your teamates are about the stupidest people in the world, they have no clue 
 what their doing, and they don't help you, but when they want to.
  
  Overview:
  
  Gameplay - Amazing, Good for everyone. Although, there is some language, it is still good for everyone 
 in my opionion.
  
  Graphics - AMAZING, simply amazing that's all I can say.
  
  Sound - Very good, there is no weird lag crap, like a grenade going off then 10 seconds later you 
 hear the blast. It all sounds real!
  
  Value - This is deffinatly worth 50-60 bucks. PICK IT UP! MUST HAVE!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: TallicaFan2005
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 1, 2006 1:35 am PT
Review:  I got this game along with my new graphics card back in November and it blew me away. The visuals 
 are amazing and cooperate pleasantly with the realistic sounds to bring you into World War II. 
 
  
  The environment is so real that you will feel your heart pound while bullets pass by your virtual 
 character's head. You might even duck under your desk when an explosion lands near. In your scope 
 there is the uniform of an enemy soldier rustling in the wind and you hesitate before pulling the 
 trigger. 'Is this real?'. You may find yourself asking that over and over and every time you'll 
 love it.
  
  The campaign is lengthy and yet enjoyable throughout. From time to time you might find yourself 
 just slightly bored but the environment will pull you in and before you know it you don't even 
 care about the slight boredom. Also note this is no 'run and gun' game, at least on any moderate 
 difficulty level. You have to hunt smart to keep yourself and your troops alive. Speaking of the 
 troops, they are more lifelike in this game than any other. They act human, they look human, heck 
 they sound human. That is what the developers wanted and surely they succeeded in the goal.
  
  I have no doubt you will love this game no matter what type of gamer you are. The sheer reality 
 of things is bound to have you hooked from the first time you pull the trigger. I give the game 
 a 10 because it is the best at what it's trying to do. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BioHazard117
Rating: 8.7
Date: May 30, 2006 5:59 am PT
Review:  Call of Duty 2 is Infinity Ward and Activision's latest PC Call of Duty game. It is a first-person 
 shooter that takes place during the second World War, just as the first Call of Duty. 
  
  In the single-player part of the game you play as three soldiers from three different nations of 
 the allies, all with one common goal, eliminate the Nazis! You will play as the Russians defending 
 their homeland at Stalingrad, the British fighting in North Africa against the tough Afrika Corps, 
 and last but not least, the Americans in the heart of Germany. The missions for all these nations 
 are all fairly similar. Although, there are a couple of interesting tank missions in the North 
 African desert and some missions where you must defend your truck while you are sitting in it with 
 panzerschreks. The missions may bore some but if you are a shooter fan, you will enjoy them greatly. 
 The AI is pretty damn good for an FPS that has many enemy soldiers that you will encounter in one 
 mission. Although, you will not have to go about the missions alone. In about every mission you 
 will have many teamates to help you defeat the German war machine. They are not the stupid ones 
 either, in fact they are very helpful. For example, they call out many enemy locations such as, 
 "Second floor, 4th window!" The weapons in Call of Duty 2 are the same as they were in the first 
 CoD. You have your usual MP-40s, M1 Garands, Springfield snipers, etc. The weapon sounds are also 
 similar too what they are in the first CoD, which isnt quite a bad thing. 
  
  Speaking of sound, if you have a surround setup, this is a great game to use it for. This game 
 has great sound to immerse into the action. You may feel that you there on Point du Hoc, inside 
 the hot tank chamber of you tank, or crawling through the pipes above Stalingrad. It is a very 
 intense game, just as the first Call of Duty. 
  
  The graphics in this game are such an improvement over the first game. Although you may need a 
 fairly hefty rig to max out the settings. However, Call of Duty 2 can be enjoyed on many lower 
 graphics settings. Head over to http://www. srtest. com/referrer/srtest to check if your machine 
 can run Call of Duty 2, and how well. But hey, isn't the gameplay that matters? Hehe.
  
  The multiplayer is where some think CoD2 shines. This part of the game is what makes this game 
 some re-playable. All the guns from the single-player aspect of the game return for some fragging! 
 Also returning are the mult-player game modes. Such as, the usual deathmatch, team deatchmatch, 
 capture the flag, and search and destroy (which is similar to Counter-Strike's bomb-defusal game 
 type) . There is also a wide variety of maps ranging from the snowy lands of Stalingrad, to the 
 hot, blazing desert of North Afirica. The maps you will recgonize from areas the the single-player 
 aspect of CoD2. You can either play as American/Britsh/Russian soldier or a German soldier in the 
 multi-player modes. You can get very addicted to the multi-player in Call of Duty 2 and play for 
 hours on end. 
  
  Overall, Call of Duty 2 is an extremely fun FPS that has high replayablity. It is more of the same 
 of the first Call of Duty, which is most certainly not a bad thing. I strongly recommend this game 
 to any shooter fan that has the PC to run it. And of course I recommend it to any CoD fan. 
  
  Pros: Very similar to the first Call of Duty, crisp graphics, a verimmersive experience.
 
  
  Cons: Very similar to the first Call of Duty, demanding graphics, single-player is fairly repetative. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: m071104
Rating: 9.8
Date: May 29, 2006 10:22 pm PT
Review:  Okay, the first time I heard that another Call of Duty was coming out, I sighed. This sub-genre 
 has been milked for every dollar and needs to DIE! But then I got CoD2 for Christmas, loaded it 
 up, and played through the campaign. I suddenly had a complete opposite oppinion. The graphics 
 are amazing, the bullets buzzing everywhere sounded fantastic! But, the greatest thing about the 
 campaign is how real and immersive it is! The Russian campaign was my favorite. The urban sprawls 
 and countless soldiers running in and getting gunned down by MG42's. I was amazed at how the friendly 
 AI acted. They alerted you about everything on the battlefield and gave you the most information 
 to stay alive. Another thing I loved was how unscripted battles were. Each and every time I restarted 
 a mission, there was always another way you could beat it. You could flank the enemy and grab a 
 sniper rifle and stay in the background, or run in, guns blazing and die quickly. I often got immersed 
 in the missions and after killing a German officer, I'd run up to him and empty a clip of Thompson 
 ammo into his head, saying aloud, "take that, you Kraut bastaard! That's for Private MacGregor!". 
 The map design was also another amazing thing. All of the Russian maps were so huge and detailed, 
 it looked real. Well, I'm done explaining this game. If you have a medium to high-spec computer, 
 go buy this game! You'll never regret it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bensindunk
Rating: 9.6
Date: May 28, 2006 1:44 am PT
Review:  amazing game! play as Russia, England or America. the game look fantastic. the smoke is awesome. 
 the sounds. The best with the game. your allies shout out almost everything like "cover me while 
 i reload!" or "sniper, grey building, third floor!" or "the Germans is trying to flank us at our 
 right." The best with it: they shout it at the right time too! The ai is really good without when 
 your enemies throw a grenade. then they don't run away. they just like scream "german grenade!" 
 but otherwise great campaign. (just a little to short.) and the multiplayer looks brilliant too!
 
  
  Why are you still reading this? go get the game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ElendilElessar
Rating: 9.4
Date: May 26, 2006 8:57 pm PT
Review:  Ever since the first Call of Duty game that debuted in late 2003, many sites award this fanastic 
 game and also has a high reputation known by people. Throughout the years, the Call of Duty series 
 reach into the consoles and recieve a lower rating ever since the expansion of Call of Duty was 
 released. Now this highly anticipated game, this sequel Call of Duty 2 got back up and got back 
 their reputation in late 2005 when the release of the next gen. console, Xbox 360 and also on PC. Like 
 its predecessors, this game is still a Historical First Person Shooter. If you enjoyed the aspects 
 of the original, you will definitely enjoy this sequel including people who are new to this series 
 or 1st person shooter with a action-packed campaign that is a bit equivalent to its predecessors.
 
  
  Story: Like its predecessors, this game puts you in different shoes of different soldiers fighting 
 against the german war machine putting you in antithetic allied fractions. You first start off 
 as a Russian avenger that want to get revenge on the Naxis because his parents were killed by them 
 and got recuited along other inexperience soldiers that are visciously fighting off the Germans 
 invading Russia which refered by them, the Motherland, like most Call of Duty series, they don't 
 tolerate cowards or traitors. The British Commonwealth is unlocked after you finished one or two 
 missions, unlike its predecessors this one features missions, you can play anytime you want if 
 unlocked. For most of these mission, you and the Desert Rats will be fighting in the deserts of 
 Nothern Africa alongside with Field Marshall Rommel's Desert Foxes and his soldiers. The last final 
 missions, you and the British travel to the war-torned Europe in Caen, France that is truly astounding. 
 Finally, the last campaign, you will played as an American corporal in Western Europe and anticipate 
 in the truly popular, the D-Day landing but not Omaha Beach or other popular beaches you play in 
 Frontline or other Call of Duty games, no you're landing in the high cliffs of Pointe du Hoc as 
 the artilley are pounding at your USA mates. If you ever think rock climbing is your favourite, 
 then your surely will need to climb will the hellish ropes that your american friends provide, 
 with artilley barrages and machine gun raining down on you and your mates.
  
  Gameplay: Unlike the series, this one changed alot since the series is processing. These new features 
 are without a doubt very revolutionary, such as your health bar is gone, but not to worry, when 
 you are losing health some kind of blood will pop in the screen recommending you to take cover, 
 making it like your in a real war in a first person perceptive, the compass is still like its predecessors, 
 in the bottom corner navigating you to the specific objective to achieve victory, also unlike the 
 series, when the grenades in your inventory, but now you can access by pressing the "g" button 
 and a new grenade called a smoke grenade that can blind your enemies like Counter-Strike and finally 
 they added some new weapons or renewed them from the previous ones on all sides. Each of the game's 
 10 missions is broken up into few different stages. If you beat it in the regular difficulty, you 
 can blow through about 10 years but I finished it between 6 or 7 hours. After that if you aren't 
 satisfied, you can continue choosing the other difficulty making it tactical and harder for hardercore, 
 1st person shooters. Since you'll be more careful dodging artilley barrages and gunfire, you'll 
 lengthen the campaign significantly, and enjoy it more. And finally when you die, quotes will appear 
 like the first call of duty but this one has the most popular and motivational quotes in history. 
 Multiplayer, like its predecessors, has its beneficts in this game, well i didn't played the multiplayer 
 version but my first impressions on the multiplayer gameplay movies that gamespot provided was 
 that it looked kind of like Medal of Honor with Capture the Flag and the ever popular, Death-Match.
 
  
  Audio: Only one word the defines this category, outstanding and polish remarkably one of the best 
 sound and music of 2005. With a music throughout the campaigns and the main theme composed by people 
 in Infinity Ward gives one of the best war music ever. The sounds sound very impressive with gunfire, 
 artilley barrages and explosions. 
  
  Graphics: The graphics are very amazing, it fully revolutionize the game, with real-life models, 
 guns and structures. But performance will clung into the missions.
  
  Overall: I would recommend to all the people who enjoyed 1st person shooters and fans of that game 
 or people who are starting to change a genre. This series will surely be known as the best 1st 
 person shooter ever in history along side with the crowning F. E. A. R and Doom 3.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: pwnr
Rating: 8.3
Date: May 25, 2006 6:37 pm PT
Review:  This WWII game really exceeded my expectations. This runs at 30 FPS on my GeForce 5200, which really 
 suprised me because of the level of detail in this game. The player's skin was too pale, though. 
 This game could've had more of the "fun factor" which includes doing things like picking up things 
 and throwing them at people. The most fun I had with this game was with the Thompson SMG. Mow down 
 waves of germans with its .45 ammunition. Thompsons, man. What really sucked was that it should've 
 been longer and fast-paced. And you should've been able to pick up a MG or .30cal and move it, 
 like the other characters. There should've been a mission where you're in an airplane and you drop 
 bombs on targets. That would've been fun. So anyways, this game was good. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: granposho
Rating: 9.6
Date: May 25, 2006 4:06 am PT
Review:  From the first moment to the last, this games is a total a$$ kicker!! First I got it for pc, the 
 visuals are the greatest seen on any ww2 shooter, the movie like situations always puts you in 
 the middle of the experience making you forget that actually it's just a game...
  As far as the sound and music goes... speechless, specially at certain moments, like on d day or 
 even when you storm at the 3 map of the russian campaign, getting ready for a counter attack at 
 the german outpost... this game is so full of great moments that makes you thank god the moment 
 you got that very pc or that very 360.
  You might want to know what differences (if any) are there between the 360 and PC version, and 
 I can assure you that there aren't any except for minor details, on the PC you can make the corpes 
 stay a lot longer while in the 360 they stay for a while and then they are gone. Other than that, 
 both are pretty much the very same game. This game kicks a$$ no matter when or where you play it, 
 but of course, the achievement system of the 360 makes you replay it so you can at least get to 
 gain those precious points, and of course, playing it at veteran level it's... breath taking, frustrating 
 at certain moments, but breath taking non the less. Bottom line, MUST HAVE!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jrhawk42
Rating: 9.3
Date: May 23, 2006 5:37 pm PT
Review:  Call of Duty 2 isn't the greatest war game ever, but it really has alot of factors that make it 
 a worthy addition in a flooded genre. The gameplay has mixed reactions since it has something that 
 are amazing, and others that aren't that great. One of the amazing aspects of this game is how 
 great you feel defeating the enemy after a battle, because you really feel like you did something. 
 Unlike several games that leave you feeling a little empty when you beat a level. 
  
  The battles are quite chaotic, and you'll feel a bit like you really are in the middle of a warzone. 
 Sometimes you will feel lost, and not really know what the next objective is, or how to accomplish 
 it, but there are compass markers, and dialog to help you on your way. One gameplay problem is 
 the enemy A. I.. It isn't that great, and alot of the action can seem scripted at times. Also hardly 
 any enemies, surrender, keel over in pain, or surcome to injuries, which keeps you from being evenmore 
 immersed into the game. I couldn't help but laugh when one of my squad member was shot, and didn't 
 even bother to move. The controls are pretty advance with standing, crouched, and laying positions. 
 There is an aiming button which has you look down the sights of your weapon, and move slower which 
 is pretty realistic, or you can try your luck at shooting from the hip. Overall the controls are 
 probably the best we currently have for this type of game, but there are some areas that need improvement. 
 Despite a few scripting, and AI flaws there are alot of other factors of gameplay that make up 
 for it.
  
  The graphcis are pretty good also, but I felt some of the objects were being reused quite a bit 
 towards the end, and I will never take cover behind a dead cow again in my life. The graphics are 
 also kinda generically stylized in that WWII brownish dust design we are so use to seeing not only 
 in WWII games, but in films also. I can't blame them for using this style since if they didn't 
 this game would probably be outcasted by alot of gamers. There was nothing spectacular about the 
 graphics to warrent a perfect score, but they are better than most games out there.
  
  The sound is great, but I didn't find anything that I was amazed by. Voice acting was better than 
 most games, and I liked the accents. Overall a good surround sound set-up will not go wasted on 
 this game.
  
  Overall this is one of the better WWII games, and it's really action packed, you're almost always 
 in the heat of battle, running to cover, and surpressing the enemy. Eventhough the scripting isn't 
 that great it isn't as bad as a majority of games in this genre. There has been some critism that 
 Call of Duty 2 is too short, but that all depends on how you play it. If you have a fairly difficult 
 setting, and are using a conservative battle style the game is quite long, but if you want to put 
 the game on easy, and rush through missions that's possible (though not recomened for an immersive 
 gaming experience) . I haven't played every new WWII game on the market right now, but if you're 
 not sure which one to get Call of Duty 2 is a guaranteed good experience. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Masta_Pimp
Rating: 9.6
Date: May 22, 2006 9:31 am PT
Review:  Call of Duty 2 is a great game, great graphics, & I love the sounds. (So real) All the guns have 
 very realistic aiming, & I like the fact that your men help you, instead of just sitting there 
 & getting shot. Again the graphics & the sound are great in this game!! I only wish it was a lot 
 longer. I was just getting into it, then it was over. If you like war game this is a MUST PLAY 
 in my book. I give it a 9.6 if you have not played Call of Duty 2 What are you waiting for?
 
  
  Have Fun Playing
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ChrisM16
Rating: 9.6
Date: May 22, 2006 6:51 am PT
Review:  this game is all around good. single player mode which is 27 missions spanning 3 campaigns is fun 
 to the end although i find a few parts get repetitive its still fun to play with turrets, tanks 
 and boats to shooting down airplanes.
  
  once youve beaten single player mode you can jump over to the highly addictive multiplayer which 
 is the best thing about this game. In multiplayer youll have a number of maps in france, russia 
 and africa. The more people you play with the funner it will be. What i find good about the multiplayer 
 is that all the guns are equally balanced so if one person has a sniper rifle and is getting on 
 everyones nerves by killing them all the time you can choose a thompson or a trench gun and run 
 up to them at gunpoint and shoot them in the face. with all the different mods out there this game 
 will never get boring.
  
  The graphics in this game are good the sound is good and like i said at the beginning its all around 
 good
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheWalrusBeast
Rating: 9.7
Date: May 21, 2006 7:58 pm PT
Review:  An amazing game. Call of Duty 2 makes you feel like you are ACTUALLY fighting in world war 2. from 
 the early battles at Moscow and Stalingrad to crossing the Rhine, this game has it all. Your frantic 
 comrades yelling "FASCISTS!!!," "KRAUTS!!!" or "JERRIES!!!" to the nazis yelling "KOMMEN SIE" or 
 "AMERIKANER" this game makes you feel like you might die any moment.
  
  Good stuff
  -Great graphics
  -fantastic sound
  -great multiplayer 
  -Single player is absolutely amazing
 
  
  However, this game needs a good graphics card to play on high setting and there are no vehicles 
 (won't affect me much because I never liked vehicles) .
  
  I definitely recomment get this game. It is just really intense.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sarah-1988
Rating: 9.6
Date: May 18, 2006 10:54 am PT
Review:  Call of Duty 2 is overall a good game. Call of Duty 2 has enough action for about anybody and its 
 fun. The game's graphics are good and the missions you have to do are well done. In Call of Duty 
 2, it could get repetitive. Same thing, kill and destroy. Call of Duty 2 does have some mini scenes 
 that could be rather entertaining to watch. Call of Duty 2 wouldnt be bad to be a resource to 
 teach you of World War 2. This game is better then Wolfenstein: Enemy Territory and better then 
 Medal of Honor and also better then Big Red One. The game is probably as good as Americas Army. 
 Overall Call of Duty 2 is magnificent! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GBU_Reviews
Rating: 9.6
Date: May 17, 2006 5:48 pm PT
Review:  With CoD2, I quickly found myself imersed in the breathtaking sound effects and graphics of a dreadful 
 war. Each campaign is really fun to play. Although you can change the difficulty level, the campaigns 
 are relatively easy to beat on Veteren because Veteren mode doesn't make the enemies smarter, it 
 just allows you to be killed with one or two shots. 
  
  Activision doesn't leave you hanging after you've mastered the campaign though, because there is 
 still multiplayer. Having a slow connection really affects your gameplay and it becomes really 
 frustrating having a lag. If you have a good connection you are fine. You will quickly learn new 
 techniques on multiplayer that will quickly help get you on level terms with the others. Unfortunately, 
 updates are extremely rare so you end up memorizing every single knook and cranny before you get 
 to play in ONE new map.
  
  Overall CoD2 is definetly worth your time if you enjoy online teamwork and games about WWII 
::::::

::::::
UserName: christmasisland
Rating: 8.9
Date: May 16, 2006 7:26 pm PT
Review:  I love this game. Gameplay was wonderful and immersive. I was upset to find I finished it so quick 
 ... in about three evenings after work.
  
  I'm not sure whether I will try again at the Veteran level, that is why I rated the game at an 
 7 for value.
  
  I played a couple of times online, but the mayhem was a bit to much for me, I would rather enjoy 
 another 10-20 missions and get rid of the online portion of the game but I know that would never 
 happen.
  
  I would buy it again and will probably buy an expansion pack if the release one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cellaphone
Rating: 9.3
Date: May 16, 2006 3:42 pm PT
Review:  This is definitley one of the most challenging and funnest games i have ever played. With 3 campains 
 and 27 missions this is a game you hold on to for a while. This game has got great battles filled 
 with alot of troops from both sides. The online is great. The controls may be a little hard to 
 get use to on the pc but after a while you will have no problems. If your looking for a war game 
 then here it it. This was a great spend of 50$. You can also learn alot about World War 2 during 
 playing this game. I bet that once you play and beat this one you will be waiting for number 3. 
 The graphics are great and the character modules are even better. The enemys Ai was superb. But 
 it could also be a bit frustrating sometimes when you can make that bit further. Some of the battles 
 that you play can takes about 30 minutes through an hour. To experience a true WW2 experience you 
 should play on the last two dificultys which are hardened and Veteran. The sound makes you feel 
 as if you are actually there. This is the kind of war game ive been waiting for and maybe you as 
 well. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Join_XtremePC
Rating: 9.4
Date: May 15, 2006 1:19 pm PT
Review:  Introduction
  Call of Duty 2 takes place in World War 2. There are three different campaigns in this game, Russian, 
 English, and American. In the beginning, you only have the Russian campaign open to you (which 
 is my favorite btw) , as you progress, somewhere half way through the Russian campaign you unlock 
 the English campaign, and so long.
  The Russian campaign takes place in Moscow, Russia. The English campaign in Egypt and then France 
 and the American campaign in Normandy (D-Day) , and then France also.
  
  There are four difficulties in this game, ranging from very easy to elite.
  
  Gameplay 10/10
 
  The gameplay was one of the things that I enjoyed most about this game. The games feeling felt 
 quite good and balanced. Walking, running, jumping, etc. all seemed quite realistic, and just as 
 you would expect a good fps to play out. 
  
  One of the new features in this game, and my personal favorite, was that there was no health, sort 
 of. As you get hurt you will see the screen become redder and redder as the damage increases and 
 your character will start to grunt and pant, if you continue to take a lot of damage you will die. 
 So as you get shot, take cover somewhere away from danger and wait until your vision clears and 
 youre good to go again. Unfortunately the enemy also has the same health system so it can get 
 quite frustrating, seeing the fact that they recharge all the time. 
  
  Another new feature of this game is that you may now climb over ledges and obstacles of that sort. 
 I was very pleased with that, because I hate jumping and find it quite unrealistic , in 
 games anyway, it also made my life much easier. You can also go from prone, crouch and standing 
 positions in the game, and the fact that they locked and you didnt have to keep on holding the 
 button was another plus.
  
  Your weapons varied from the regular rifles, pistols, and sub-machine guns and all felt quite realistic 
 in terms of shooting and the like, you can also whack the crap out of enemies with your gun, so 
 thats always fun. :p There are two types of grenades, one is the regular frag grenade that explodes 
 and kills a bunch of people, the other is a smoke grenade, which can be extremely useful to obscure 
 the view of snipers and machine gun nests.
  
  Graphics 9./10
  The graphics in this game are outstanding, all options on highest of course. :p The indoor and 
 outdoor environments look magnificent. The smoke from the smoke grenades and the explosions were 
 also some of the best I have seen in any game. Although, textures can be a little less sharp when 
 standing really close to something, but the game is so chaotic that you wont notice much of it 
 anyway.
  
  Sound 10/10
  Sound is where CoD2 excels like no other. Between the stirring score that kicks up during key moments, 
 to the top-notch gun explosion effects, the game sounds amazing. The speech is also great, especially 
 the yelling between squadmates and enemies during battle, which plays right into the excitement 
 and tension as you fight.
  
  Artificial Intelligence-AI 9/10 (On hardest) , 8/10 (On easier)
  The artificial intelligence in 
 this game is amazing, in elite anyway. Your teammates will kick down super indestructible tables 
 and take cover behind them, pick up and throw enemy grenades back at them, and basically react 
 like any proper soldier would in combat. Enemy soldiers would behave the same way. In some of the 
 easier difficulties teammates and enemy soldiers alike would run out into the open and get shot, 
 which I found extremely hilarious, yet quite frustrating.
  Its just too bad you cant pick up grenades and throw it back at them, and kick down super indestructible 
 tables and the like.
  
  Pros:
  Very realistic
  Great gameplay elements
  Great graphics
  Great AI
  Great sound
  Great Optimization
  
  Cons:
  Cant do many of 
 the things that the cpu can
  Same health system for everyone 
  Enemies didnt have much variety
  I put great too many times
  
  Conclusion:
  IMHO, Call 
 of Duty 2 is definitely one of the best game, ever. Superb gameplay, great graphics, even better 
 sound and very good artificial intelligence. Basically Call of Duty 2 has everything you may hope 
 for in a successful world war 2 shooter, and more. If you enjoyed the original and are thirsting 
 for more, Cod2 will definitely deliver that.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: doctor_kaz
Rating: 8.8
Date: May 15, 2006 6:09 am PT
Review:  I was not a huge fan of the first Call of Duty. The game was nothing but Medal of Honor v 1.1 with 
 average graphics and five hour game length to me. Call of Duty 2 though, is a lot better and a 
 lot different. The battles are more intense, the pace is even faster, the graphics are better, 
 the level design is much better, and the battles are much bigger. This sequel is a great game, 
 and its better than the first game in every imaginable way.
  
  One of the selling points of the first Call of Duty was that it was supposed to make you feel like 
 a small part of a huge conflict, instead of the usual FPS protagonist. The game often failed to 
 do this. Instead, its Call of Duty 2 that truly gives you this epic feeling. The battles are huge, 
 with often a dozen or more enemies and NPCs on the screen for in some pretty big spaces. The mayhem 
 is over the top. There are friends and enemies barking out orders and taunts everywhere, explosions 
 going off, and automatic weapons fire going off all around you. Your ears are constantly being 
 bombarded with the intense sounds of warfare. You never go through a level by yourself, just clearing 
 away enemies one-by-one. Youve always got a big contingent of pals with you storming buildings, 
 clearing trenches, and blowing up stuff. The game is designed so that your AI buddies always feel 
 important, but they never take over the game for you entirely. You cant do much by yourself in 
 this game, but you do still need to play an important part. Its rare to play a game with that 
 type of balance. 
  
  Call of Duty 2 gets rid of health packs and allows you to recover health simply by hiding somewhere 
 or taking cover for a few seconds. I didnt think that this would work, and at the default difficulty, 
 it made the game too easy. Once I turned up a notch though, it suddenly made the game different. 
 Call of Duty 2 on the second highest level has a perfect level of difficulty. Whatever is lost 
 here in realism is more than made up for with fun. The game encourages you to react swiftly and 
 aim well, but it doesnt penalize you for sticking your head around the corner and getting picked 
 off by some guy with super perfect insta-aim. You have to use cover when you move and always be 
 aware of your surroundings. If you hide behind a barrel but leave yourself open to a guy on your 
 flank, then youll probably get killed. This means youll just have to replay a few minutes of 
 game time, since the game saves checkpoints very generously. The pacing of the game is excellent, 
 and the game is always challenging, but rarely frustrating.
  
  Call of Duty is the most stripped down and simple FPS that I have played in years, perhaps ever. 
 There is absolutely no exploration, no collection of health packs, no health indicator, and no 
 foraging for ammo. The most that you will ever do is pick up a weapon off of a dead German if you 
 want to swap out. This wont be necessary though, since ammo for your own weapons is plentiful. 
 In many subtle ways, Call of Duty 2 separates itself from the pack. One way is the grenade danger 
 indicator, which shows on screen when a grenade is about to go off on you. It may seem like the 
 game is getting spoonfed to you, but it ultimately makes the game more fun by removing a frustrating 
 element. Who likes to get killed by an invisible grenade that you didnt hear or see land next 
 to you? This is an excellent example of how Call of Duty 2s streamlining makes the experience 
 better.
  
  The first game was sometimes absurdly linear, with some puzzle sequences disguised as action (e. g. 
 the beginning of the Stalingrad level) . The level design in Call of Duty 2 is also vastly improved 
 over its predecessor, and its amongst the finest in the genre. Levels are very big and usually 
 include lots of outdoor spaces. The levels are pretty linear, but there are lots of flanking opportunities. 
 The pacing of the levels is awesome. You and your AI buddies encounter groups of Germans and engage 
 them in wild, intense firefights. Then, you quickly move on to the next group of Germans. Theres 
 rarely a dull or a quiet moment, except for the eerie silence at the end of every level after you 
 have killed all of the Germans. The game doesnt rely on ambush or surprise encounters to provide 
 challenge. Instead, it has clusters of well-placed, entrenched Germans with pretty decent AI. The 
 game is still pretty scripted, but it doesnt feel like youre on rails all the time like the first 
 game (and lots of others) did.
  
  Graphically, Call of Duty is very good. Theres nothing extraordinary about the environments when 
 they are still, but the screen comes alive during the battles. The particle effects (i. e. smoke 
 and dust) are excellent. Explosions or bullets hitting sand or snow cause the screen to be obscured 
 in a great big cloud, which hides enemy and friend alike. Character models and weapons both look 
 really good, and the screen usually has lots of detail. The bigger battles have as many as a couple 
 dozen characters on screen, along with all of the visual carnage that is unparalled in todays 
 shooters. This game wont challenge Oblivion as the PCs best-looking game, but it still is very 
 pleasing to the eye. The audio is the best part of the games presentation though. As I said previously, 
 theres rarely a quiet moment. Every tenth of a second has the sound of machine-gun fire, the whistle 
 of artillery shells, the dull explosion of a grenade, or the distinguishing crack of a rifle shot. 
 Your ears are constantly being barraged with the sounds of battle and the cries of your teammates 
 and your enemies. The soundtrack is pretty ordinary, but the rest of the sound adds a lot to the 
 game.
  
  Call of Duty 2 has 10 missions, each of which are divided up into 2 or 3 sub-missions. The game 
 took me about 11 or 12 hours to play through once. Thats about average length nowadays, but at 
 least its longer than the first game, and the content is all really high quality. I thought that 
 this game would be just another cinematic scripted WW2 shooter. I was surprised by how much better 
 it was than that. If you have any interest in this genre at all, then you should play this game. 
 The intense action and challenging but forgiving gameplay makes this a great choice for any first 
 person shooter fan. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: newyork_graffit
Rating: 9.6
Date: May 14, 2006 8:16 am PT
Review:  Call Of Duty 2 is a FPS set in World War 2. It is the best one ever. First off, the graphics. They 
 are amazing in every way shape and form. The environments are beautiful and the characters and 
 Nazis look crisp. Then there is the gameplay. Yet again, phenominal. The gunplay works really well. 
 The sound is pretty good espicially the guns and the Russians, Americans, and the British. They 
 are all skillfully done by voice actors. The problem is that the Germans always say the same but 
 they sound pretty good when they're saying it. 
  
  Call of Duty 2 is easily the best WWII shooter ever. It surpasses the original. If you are looking 
 for a great FPS, look no further than Call of Duty 2. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: priest17
Rating: 9.7
Date: May 14, 2006 8:01 am PT
Review:  ... I say that because the game is just so fun and good without a reason. I dont know what about 
 this game makes it a good FPS. It just is. The weird part is that the gameplay is basically point 
 and shoot only and it still doesnt get repetitive. Ive finished this game 2 times (once hard and 
 once veteran) and I still love it. I guess the sound and feel of guns, the way you aim them when 
 you click the right mouse botton and the way the game has just right amount of strategy- and action 
 element (you dont just jump out and shoot every one while youre running and jumping and you dont 
 have to think five minutes before you shoot one guy) are the reasons CoD2 is so fun. And I guess 
 the sniping parts in missions, times you have to plant bombs on tanks, gunturret parts of missions 
 and Tank missions are what make the game non repetitive.
  Eventrough the PC version doesnt have very good graphics and most of the game is scripted the gameplay 
 makes it up. Who cares about good graphics and psychics systems when you got a super great FPS. 
 I gotta say CoD2 is a better game than F. E. A. R. just because its SO FUN. I would give this game 
 10 put I cant lie about the graphics.
  Now quick go buy CoD2 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BriT19
Rating: 8.9
Date: May 12, 2006 12:12 pm PT
Review:  I, like many ppl these days, are getting tired of the numerous WWII shooter games that come out. 
 The subject is just gettin boring with the same game pretty much coming out all the time. But this 
 game is different. It doesnt feel like any other WWII game, as the misson in the game, seem challenging 
 yet fun to play. The audio is fantastic, and ust the overall presentation is good. Although the 
 online isnt that great, it is good enough to play and there canbe some stiff competition at some 
 times. Well worth the money. Can't wait for expansion pack or number 3!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cuteperv
Rating: 9.3
Date: May 9, 2006 1:57 am PT
Review:  First I must say that Call of Duty 2 is not the first shooting game I've played. I've played Call 
 of Duty one, Medal of Honor, Doom 3,... u name it, and I must say that this game is very solid.
 
  The story plot - very important compare to all other aspects. Call of Duty 2 is well written, 
 all the missions are detailed and made sense. Plus the way the story introduced is quick and simple, 
 which I prefer, that way I don't have to watch a 30 mins video before I can even start getting 
 my adreline on and start my mission.
  The Game Play - the aiming system I would say flawless. If you aim at an enemy head and shoot, 
 he will definitely get shot, unlike in Brothers in Arms Road to Hill, I aim many times even in 
 their head, I would never get a shot (don't ask me why) . The missions is varies, from doing an 
 assault (Normandy Invasion D-Day mission -hardest I say- to tank combating, or doing snipping job, 
 crawling through pipes to get to a destination, detonate buildings, tanks, rescue your soldiers 
 -the german village, this game has most of all, no swimming in water though. 
  Weapon, many varieties of weapons, plus you can even use like turret weapons from enemies to blow 
 up tanks and enemies.
  The Game Engine - I don't know what the software designer wrote, but this game runs increasing 
 fast on my AMD 64 Athlon 3500+, equipped w/ BFG Nvidia 7600GT OC, and Sound Blaster X-Fi Xtreme 
 Music compare to other games. I ran everything at maximum resolution (except the smoke) and everything 
 still runs extremely fast. Start up is a snap unlike other games, yet the installation was flawless.
 
  Graphic - I would say at 8 out of 10. The grahpic could have been better if there was more blood, 
 yet even at maximum smoke resolution, the scene wasn't as realistic as in The Elder Scrolls IV. 
 
  Sound Effects - I won't say much about sound effect since I only have a 2D speakers w/ a sub-wof, 
 but I still say that the sound comes out very good.
  Last but not least, during the game there can be frustration if you play as Veteran as I did, there 
 is mission I replayed at least 20 times. So this game can really pose a challenge for you, definitely 
 not boring. Multiplayer is a plus where you can harden your "head-shot" skill against innocent 
 newbies, lol. 
  Is this game suprisingly good? yes, worth buying and playing? Definitely.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: myniceicelife
Rating: 7.7
Date: May 6, 2006 11:02 pm PT
Review:  When Call of Duty first came out, it revitalized the WW2 genre. It had an incredible single player 
 campaign where you were able to play as a Russian, British, and American soldier. The graphics 
 were good and the sound was excellent. Even better was the multiplayer. Two years have passed and 
 the sequel to the original Call of Duty has arrived. But is it all that it is cracked up to be?
 
  
  If you have a computer with excellent specs than you will be able to appreciate the games incredible 
 graphics. The game looks absolutely great in DirectX 9; however, if you don't have a high end computer 
 you'll be stuck in DirectX 7. The graphics in DX7 are still good, but it doesn't seem to be a great 
 step up from the original Call of Duty or the expansion pack United Offensive. Also, even after 
 the first patch for the game (I'll talk about that latter) there are still problems with FPS in 
 both DX9 and DX7 for even high end computers.
  
  The one thing that Call of Duty has always been known for is it's excellent sound, and CoD2 audio 
 is even better. From the bullets wizzing by your head to the yelling and screaming from your fellow 
 commrades, you really feel like your in a epic battle. Also the music is great as you can tell 
 when something is about to happen as the music intensifies. It really makes you wishing for more 
 game to hear the great sounds.
  
  One of the main strengths/weaknesses in CoD2 is that although the campaign is good, you'll easily 
 blow through it in about 8-12 hours. Even though it may be over quickly, it takes you for one hell 
 of a ride will it lasts. You start out as a Russian soldier as you fight off the German army. You 
 then switch to the British and fight Rommel's soldiers in North Africa. Finally you end up playing 
 as a Cpl. for the US army as you storm Pointe Du Hoc and end up securing a city near the Rhine. 
 The AI is pretty smart even on easy, so you won't have the easiest of time mowing through German 
 after German, but the game does leave you the option to play both quick paced or tactically. So 
 even if you don't plan on playing the multiplayer, you are left with an incredible single player 
 campaign that may not be very long, but is still fun to play.
  
  However, if you have played the multiplayer from the original game and the expansion pack, you 
 will expect to have lots of fun. This is where CoD2 comes up short. The first thing that you will 
 notice is that the multiplayer maps are very small, showing that they were most likely designed 
 for the 360 in mind. Now this can be good if there are about 10-12 players in a server, but when 
 there are 32 people playing on one of these maps it can be very chaotic and you'll be lucky to 
 get 5 steps out of spawn before being killed by a random shot or a nade spam. This is all good 
 if you don't mind just running around jumping like the Easter Bunny, but if you try to do even 
 a little bit of tactical play you'll have difficulty. To make matters worse, Infinity Ward didn't 
 release a map editing tool until six months after the game was released, so the community was forced 
 to make due with the original maps and any of the single player map conversions that some people 
 were able to make. 
  
  So, if it took that long to get a map editor, surely IW was working very hard on getting a patch 
 completed. Well, that was what the community was told in December after some rather upset people 
 cordinated a boycott on CoD2. IW told everyone that the game would be released soon, sometime in 
 early 2006. Four months later, in April, the patch was finally released with the much anticipated 
 PunkBuster and increased gamestate to make the game be able to have bigger maps. Unfortunately 
 ever since the patch, PB has been a major hassle and the gamestate wasn't increased at all. If 
 you enjoy the run n' gun style gameplay with close combat then you may enjoy the multiplayer of 
 CoD2, but if you get easily annoyed from small sized maps were the bunny hoppers roam then you 
 may be turned off or be lucky to find a server with some sort of mod that cuts back on the run 
 n' gun.
  
  While Call of Duty 2 may not be the big step that the original Call of Duty was, it still is a 
 good game. The graphics are great if your computer can handle them and the sound is phenomenal. 
 The single player campaigns will keep you engaged, until it ends. And the multiplayer is hit and 
 miss depending on your style of play. If you enjoyed the first two CoD games, you'll enjoy yourself, 
 but be forewarned that the support from IW is not really there and the game can be dissapointing 
 if you loved United Offensive. For newbies to the game, wait for it to go down in price before 
 you go out and get the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mtryon
Rating: 9.8
Date: May 6, 2006 8:30 am PT
Review:  It isnt fair only 8.8. Its a perfect TEN!!!. Ok, 9.9 cause its too short (real fun last too 
 low in real life) , but the multiplayer its otstanding (Lack of multiplayer maps too???... mmm, 
 ok... 9.8) . Weathers efects are amazing, its impressive the bunch of soldiers fighting and the 
 hundreds of bullets fliying at the same time, with better AI. Cant wait for the expansion. But, 
 with a bit of patient, Im sure soon we will get all of this pretty soon. Menawhile, I still have 
 tons of gerrys to shoot and, guess what, I even close to get borred. What! More gerrys from the 
 east??? Watch out with the "potato masher"... Die Die Die you little... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AcydRaine
Rating: 9.1
Date: May 5, 2006 9:50 am PT
Review:  Call of Duty 2 is a FPS set in WW2 where you play the rolls of an American, British, and Russians 
 soldiers. And while this sounds similar to other FPS (since there are a lot of WW2 FPS) the game 
 is able to stand out of the crowd. The game has a great single player campaigns, and a good multiplayer 
 element. Although this isnt to imply that there arent flaws with those things. If you have played 
 the first Call of Duty then you should be at home in this game, if you havent then youre in for 
 a good surprise.
  
  The single player campaigns in the game are divided up into three forces, though the American and 
 British levels switch off with each other so it feels like two. The game starts you off as a Russian 
 during training. It quickly picks up speed as your training mission becomes a real battle when 
 the Germans attack. One of the first things you bound to notice is that there is no health bar 
 in this game. Instead there a system of endurance that allows you to take X amount of damage (depending 
 on the difficult level your on) before you go down. This is made interesting by the fact that you 
 regenerate endurance, so if you are close to death all you have to do is wait a few seconds and 
 you will be as good as new. However, do not think that this means that the game is easy. If youre 
 on the higher difficult levels you will see that a single bullet from any random enemy can kill 
 you in a second. Another new object in the series is smoke grenades. This is what it sound like, 
 a grenade that releases smoke in a small area to block the vision of all those looking in or through 
 it. You will find these to be useful when you need them, and very annoying when the enemy uses 
 them. Other then these things there should be nothing else that should surprise you. You will find 
 that the campaigns in this game are quite fun, however, they are also repetitive and short for 
 the most part. You should be able to beat the game on normal in about 10 hours, if it even takes 
 you that long. And most of that time will be spent doing the same actions over and over again. 
 For most missions you start off by attacking a German strong point/base after which you defend 
 that place from a German counter attack. This formula is done over and over again for the entire 
 game. Overall the single player part of the game is enjoyable even if it is short and formulaic.
 
  
  The multiplayer part of Call of Duty 2 is a blast. The experience here however is largely based 
 on who you are playing with and how much lag you have. You will quickly learn that it doesnt take 
 much for you to go down. If you go off by your self to attack the enemy, then you will get killed 
 most likely. The key to winning most of the games is team work (when you have a team) . If the teams 
 are balance skill wise then it can be a lot of fun, however, if youre on a team that does not 
 posses the needed skills then the game will be unbearable. The problem with a bad team, other then 
 them not being good, is that spawn points in certain maps allow one team to corner another one. 
 The losing team will get stuck in a small area and to make matters worst is that there no spawn 
 protection so the other team can (and often does) throw grenades in constantly to spawn kill the 
 corner team. Still, for the most part this doesnt happen, but when it does it more or less ends 
 the match. Another problem that happens with the game is lag. Lag is not anything new to online 
 games, in this game it is particularly annoying since it only takes a second for you to get gunned 
 down. If youre on a laggy server then there a good chance that you will see the screen start to 
 be jumpy and then you will find yourself dead. Still, the overall experience of the game multiplayer 
 is good.
  
  Considering these factors, I have to say that this game is great but not prefect. The single player 
 offers a lot of memorable moments, but it doesnt last long enough and gets a bit formulaic. The 
 multiplayer part of the game adds a lot of value to it, even though the experience of playing online 
 heavy relies on lag and team mate skills. If you looking for a great FPS for the PC and do not 
 mind playing another WW2 shooter, then you should get Call of Duty 2.
  
  -AcydRaine 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RedPanther95
Rating: 8.3
Date: May 5, 2006 7:16 am PT
Review:  Call of Duty 2 for the PC is better than the PS2 XBOX and GCN versions! This game is kinda short 
 but really fun. 
  THE GOOD: Great gameplay, multiplayer is really fun, graphics are amazing pretty good! The weapon 
 sound is also amazinng!
  
  THE BAD: Kinda short music isn't good voiceovers could have been better if you like Call of Duty 
 1 you might be dissaponted with Call of Duty 2.
  
  Gameplay: The multiplayer is fun! The modes are really fun the missions are really fun and the 
 battles are all so fun! But the game is kinda short nad kinda easy!
  
  Graphics: Not a single problem at all with these graphics!!!
  
  Sound: The weapons are awesome 
 I watched the making of this game on G4 they worked hard. But the voiceovers could have been better 
 along with the music of the game!
  
  Value: Like I said in the good or bad section of my review you might be dissapointed with this 
 game. If you're looking for a fun multiplayer game for your PC get Unreal Tournament or Battlefield 
 2 give this game a shot though.
  
  I was loopking for some more action but I thought the game was pretty good anyways the game is 
 kinda short and easy. This game is really fun. Give it a shot! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: everlars
Rating: 9
Date: May 4, 2006 9:04 pm PT
Review:  aaaaaaaaaaa aaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaa aaaaaaaaaaaaa aaaa aaaaaaa aaaaa
  aaaaaaaaaaa aaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaa aaaaaaaaaaaaa aaaa aaaaaaa aaaaa
  aaaaaaaaaaa aaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaa 
 aaaaaaaaaaaaa aaaa aaaaaaa aaaaa
  aaaaaaaaaaa aaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaa aaaaaaaaaaaaa aaaa aaaaaaa aaaaa
  aaaaaaaaaaa aaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaa 
 aaaaaaaaaaaaa aaaa aaaaaaa aaaaa
  aaaaaaaaaaa aaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaa aaaaaaaaaaaaa aaaa aaaaaaa aaaaaaaaaaaaaaaa aaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaa aaaaaaaaaaaaa 
 aaaa aaaaaaa aaaaa
  aaaaaaaaaaa aaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaa aaaaaaaaaaaaa aaaa aaaaaaa aaaaa
  aaaaaaaaaaa aaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaa aaaaaaaaaaaaa aaaa aaaaaaa aaaaa
  aaaaaaaaaaa aaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaa 
 aaaaaaaaaaaaa aaaa aaaaaaa aaaaaaaaaaaaaaaa aaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaa aaaaaaaaaaaaa aaaa aaaaaaa aaaaaaaaaaaaaaaa 
 aaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaa aaaaaaaaaaaaa aaaa aaaaaaa aaaaaaaaaaaaaaaa aaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaa aaaaaaaaaaaaa aaaa 
 aaaaaaa aaaaaaaaaaaaaaaa aaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaa aaaaaaaaaaaaa aaaa aaaaaaa aaaaaaaaaaaaaaaa aaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaa 
 aaaaaaaaaaaaa aaaa aaaaaaa aaaaaaaaaaaaaaaa aaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaa aaaaaaaaaaaaa aaaa aaaaaaa aaaaaaaaaaaaaaaa 
 aaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaa aaaaaaaaaaaaa aaaa aaaaaaa aaaaaaaaaaaaaaaa aaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaa aaaaaaaaaaaaa aaaa 
 aaaaaaa aaaaaaaaaaaaaaaa aaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaa aaaaaaaaaaaaa aaaa aaaaaaa aaaaa
  aaaaaaaaaaa aaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaa aaaaaaaaaaaaa aaaa aaaaaaa aaaaa
  aaaaaaaaaaa aaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaa 
 aaaaaaaaaaaaa aaaa aaaaaaa aaaaa
  aaaaaaaaaaa aaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaa aaaaaaaaaaaaa aaaa aaaaaaa aaaaa
  aaaaaaaaaaa aaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaa 
 aaaaaaaaaaaaa aaaa aaaaaaa aaaaaaaaaaaaaaaa aaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaa aaaaaaaaaaaaa aaaa aaaaaaa aaaaaaaaaaaaaaaa 
 aaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaa aaaaaaaaaaaaa aaaa aaaaaaa aaaaa 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jj3ysk
Rating: 8.7
Date: May 3, 2006 2:59 am PT
Review:  Call of Duty 2 keeps the idea of the World War 2 shooter from being too stale. Bringing to the 
 table solid gameplay elements, great visuals, and even better sound makes this game the culmination 
 of the World War 2 FPS experience. The only significant drawback is after playing Call of Duty 
 2, you may never want to play a European Theater of Operations based WW2 shooter ever again. The 
 other end of the world hasnt been touched on enough, so the Call of Duty series may end up being 
 on that and, and bringing in a relatively fresher view of the whole war. Until then, Call of Duty 
 2 is like the cherry to top the sundae. I highly recommend playing this quality title. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sgt5thboard
Rating: 10
Date: May 1, 2006 7:50 am PT
Review:  Well, after Infinity ward and activision released Call of Duty ,which is also a very strong game, they 
 released the sequel, Call of Duty 2. The graphics are unbelivable which better smoke visual and some 
 new features like jumping over a wall, which saves time when climbing down the stairs. There also 
 a new bunch of weapons never released in Call of Duty like the SVT40, G3 rifle, smoke grenade, Panzershreck 
 and the scoped Lee-Enfield and all of them are drawn into detail. But some of the guns like the 
 BAR really pissed me off because it recoils so hard aiming down the sight is not going to help 
 you, I; m also disappointed with the Thompson SMG, yes I know there are 20-bullet clips for Thompson 
 but so what? We all want the traditional and fame 30-bullet clip Thompson! When sniping, they really 
 make the adrenalin pushing when you hold the shift button you can hear your heart pumping and it 
 really gives a real challenge for snipers and instead of pressing the "3"key to use the grenade, you 
 just need to press the "g" key button to throw it while holding your weapon!
  
  Another new thing they put in Call of Duty 2 is that they change the way your complete the campaign. Instead 
 of going mission 1 to the end, you can play the Russian campaign halfway and play the British campaign (unless 
 of course you unlock it while playing for the Soviets) . Another thing that enhance the gameplay 
 is that you ca have multiple choice to complete an objective. Say that you need to kill all the 
 Nazi's in several houses which they label A, B, C and so on.. you can either go A-B-C or B-A-C! there 
 is this part where you need to destroy some Tiger tanks with your explosives, you can use the flak 
 88 gun to do the job!
  
  Overall, Call of Duty 2 is just way too good and every WWII FPS fanatic should consider buying it. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BenHoot
Rating: 8.7
Date: Apr 30, 2006 7:58 pm PT
Review:  Call of Duty 2 is an excellent game. The core aspects of this game are absolutely outstanding and 
 very intense and exciting gameplay.
  
  The gameplay in COD2 is outstanding. The action is fast paced and easy to pick up yet hard to master. 
 Online play is quite addicting and adds many hours of playtime to this title. The single player 
 is mighty sweet. With the vast environments in each of the 3 campaigns, it makes the game very 
 thrilling. The downside is that the objectives seem to get repetitive. It always seems that you're 
 killing Nazis left and right on your way to an objective. Once you get their you have to defend 
 that objective from several waves of Nazis until your reinforcements arrive. A feature in COD2 
 is that the game's health system is much like the one in Halo 2. Where you have a "shield" that 
 is worn down with getting hit and once the shield is gone you are easy to kill. The shield, however, 
 regenerates when you are no longer being shot. This makes the searching for health kits, no longer 
 apart of the game.
  
  The graphics in COD2 are beautiful. The smoke looks real and the bloom effects are outstanding. 
 The problem with that is that you need a very good system to run this game in order to see all 
 the goodies of the engine.
  
  The sound in COD2 is amazing. With the constant bullets whizzing by your head, grenades exploding, 
 and your squad mates yelling at you to cover them or to watch out, it makes for an almost realistic 
 sound of war. The voice acting in this game is truly what sets it above other game in terms of 
 sound.
  
  The multiplayer in COD2 is very addictive. With several maps to choose from and the normal modes 
 of play, it makes for hours upon hours of gameplay online.
  
  This game, however, does not add too much to the game in terms that this is a SEQUEL. There werent 
 really any innovations that separated itself besides a new engine. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: frenchierr
Rating: 8.9
Date: Apr 28, 2006 7:21 am PT
Review:  Call of duty 2 has overpased the multiplayer battles everywear, its todays number one shotting 
 game #1 now all i see when i go to a PLAYNET or Pioneer center ( CP GAME CAFE) is 30 people playing 
 Call of Duty in a huge mass there you wont last more than 2 minuits alive, its always a battle 
 to stay alive and kill as many as you can before they kill you the trick is to constantly be moving, 
 im always in the top 3, i realy like the new inprovments of call od duty 2 like smoke granades 
 and the weppons, specialy the sniper they have taken many deatails in consideration !!! this game 
 rock and makes you feel TRUE adrenaline! youll go nuts playing it and once you beat it plating 
 against other real people The GAME PLAY COULD CHANGE drastically when plying against friend its 
 totaly different from the campaing game so PLAY ON! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: IainHerd
Rating: 8.9
Date: Apr 26, 2006 10:43 pm PT
Review:  Yes, yes - another WWll shooter. So what is does that make COD2? Some where near the 6000th World 
 War II based shooter release in the past half-decade? Yeah... seems that way. And how many of these 
 shooters claimed to be the next big thing? 500? (psssh. At least!)
  
  Well believe the hype! Because not even 10 minutes into the game and I was hooked.
  
  Right 
 off the bat, my training camp is raided by 'jerries' and my target no longer becomes fine china 
 but an onslaught of German fodder. Boom! First guy I take out: drops dead, leaving his helmet pivoting 
 on its center axis for a good second - just to land on his corpse. Right there I knew I was in 
 love. 
  
  Though I have only had chance to play a few campaigns (with no attempt at multi-player) , the levels 
 seem to be high-octane, yet straight forward (just how I like it) with a few stages that allow 
 you to find your own way home. And though stage setup was simple; Infinity Ward managed to brings 
 home the "this war is bigger than you or me" feeling right away. Team mates scattered the screen 
 assisting you as you can or acting as a human shield when you take cover. All and all, it created 
 a sense that you were part of something much smaller, though you still were the one that had to 
 do all the 'hero stuff' (ie: sticky bomb multiple tanks while your team "watched your back") . 
 
  
  Performance wise: Sound was incredible - not an audiophile, so I can't elaborate on it more than 
 that. And performance was sleek, with no frame lag when the screen bacame smoke filled (despite 
 what I was told) . 
  
  In the end, I believe this is an awesome shooter. Especially by World War ll genre standards. I 
 dare say that it is my premier WWII shooter thus far.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ice-vanilla
Rating: 9.7
Date: Apr 26, 2006 11:00 pm PT
Review:  WWII shooters were starting to make me sick with their never ending list of expansion packs... Medal 
 of Honor certainly got to be a bore!!! But Call of Duty 2 changed it all. Without deviating from 
 the formula that made the first one a hit , COD 2 is immensely addictive!!!
  
  The game mirrors much of what we have seen in the previous installments. There's not much difference 
 in the game's core gameplay like reaching your objectives, holding your position until reinforcements 
 arrive etc. The openness, level design and the pace of the game has certainly changed. It hasn't made 
 much change in linearity but you can complete your objectives in the order you wish to do so.
 
  
  The emulation of wide-open spaces in COD 2 is simply amazing. COD 2 would not be complete with 
 it's cinema-like set pieces like Point Du Hoc, which we saw in the trailer, where you climb a rope 
 up the side of a cliff as bullets ricochet off the cliff walls!!
  
  Like it's older siblings COD 2 covers WWII across three interwoven campaigns featuring the Russians, Americans 
 and the British.
  
  The game maintains a perfect pace throughout. There are no health packs or armor packs in the game 
 which may be a bit disappointing to hardcore FPS gamers. Instead your health is regenerated automaticaly. Whenever 
 you take too many shots your screen turns bloody and and you start hearing your heavy heartbeat. This, to 
 me at least, is much better than looking for a health pack when you are being fired at from all 
 directions. This game also does not sport a HUD. Stupid as it may sound it surely helps you immerse 
 yourself in the game.
  
  True life-savers are the grenade and damage direction indicators. 
  Whenever you are shot or 
 a grenade is thrown near you an indicator comes on the screen indicating the direction it came 
 from. It's up to you to get your polygon ass outta there!!!
  
  This game does not have a quick-save feature but it has a very robust auto-save feature that acts 
 very much like quick save. All these innovations lead to lesser frustrations during gameplay.
  
  Your comrades don't dumbly stand in the path of machine gun fire or kamikaze when you fire 
 at them!!! Squad mates are extremely helpful, they do a great job of sticking with you, opening fire 
 and calling out targets and enemy grenades.
  
  This game runs smooth, looks really beautiful, with best ever seen smoke effects and sounds equally 
 awesome. This is one FPS you don't wanna miss!!! 
  
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: sokunthy
Rating: 9.6
Date: Apr 26, 2006 4:00 am PT
Review:  I've just got this game today and i think this game is kick ass! ( PC-DVD )
  Afew days ago when i downloaded this game demo and play i knew that this game is a really fun game 
 and the graphic is amazing...........
  At first my computer is running on Anvidia Geforce 6100, omg this graphic card can't handle this 
 game! it lags like hell on the loswest graphic!
  Afew weeks later i bought my self an Anvidia Geforce 6600gt (PCI-EXPRESS) and it runs this game 
 so smooth like a baby head on it highest graphic!
  
  On the COD2 performance guide test Anvidia Geforce 6600gt scores quite low compared to other graphic 
 cards but it runs this game so smooth. I honestly don't think you need to buy any other better 
 cards to run this game. ( Geforce 7800GTX ) One of the reason why i buy this game is because i 
 want to know how well my Geforce 6600gt run this game, and what are you know is card is aren't 
 bad as i though it would be. If you are looking for mid range graphic card, Anvidia Geforce 6600gt 
 is a must buy! 
  I also has age of empires 3 and battlefield 2, this card can handle them all! (Multiplayer hm.... 
 depend on your internet speed)
  
  It's a really good game to play, it keeps you sitting down on you chair for quite sometime.....
 
  
  Love the graphic, love the game play, recommended to anyone who likes WWII first person shooting 
 games. Haha and i don't even like shooting game and love this game VERY VERY MUCH!
  
  Pick Up Your Weapon Soldiers! 
  
  My computer spec is:
  
  AMD Athlon 64 2.0Ghz 3200+
 
  DDR400 running at 1GB
  Anvidia Geforce 6600gt in PCI Epress slot.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: andy-t-
Rating: 9.2
Date: Apr 23, 2006 5:50 am PT
Review:  The most explosive FPS of its era, with an excellant single player mode with superb level design 
 and reality. A multiplayer mode like the last CoD but with better maps, some old maps but improved 
 make an appearance too.
  We have also just recently seen the 1.2 patch for Multiplayer mode, which introduces two new maps 
 (mp_harbour, mp_rhine) which are both superb. Rhine is brand new set in Wellandar, Germany, whereas 
 mp_harbour is an old UO (united offensive) map, but is improved with more attention to detail and 
 an excellant setup of props.
  Over all a very impressive WW2 game and i am looking forward to a possible expansion (like United 
 Offensive) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bob_rulz
Rating: 9.3
Date: Apr 29, 2006 1:57 am PT
Review:  GOOD: Total immersion; fantastic sound; non-stop combat; great technical aspect of graphics; forces 
 you to think to win; makes you feel like a single soldier in a larger war, but still makes you 
 feel important; Halo-type health system; inteligent and challenging AI
  BAD: Repetitive objectives; almost too intense at times; sometimes feel too powerful; difficulty 
 almost frustrating at times; can't save
  
  All I can say is: wow! Call of Duty 2 is a spectacular game. As soon as you start the game, you're 
 thrown into the immersive world of Call of Duty 2.
  
  The first campaign has you fighting in the cold, snowy streets of Moscow and Stalingrad. While 
 the graphics aren't amazing, the attention to the technical details is awesome. Grenades throw 
 up a chunk of the ground when they explode. This isn't just a flashy touch; it actually obscures 
 your vision for a time. The snow flying through the air blurs your vision beyond a certain distance.
 
  
  As you advance through the campaign, you'll notice that, while the game ultimately relies upon 
 a series of mostly linear objectives and scripted sequences, they're integrated into the game so 
 smoothly that you'll hardly notice them. In addition, the AI is intelligent and puts up a good 
 fight. You're part of a squad of team members, and while your allies continually respawn, the enemy 
 puts up a fierce resistance. They'll use grenades to flush you out, advance or move to a safer 
 position, scramble out of the way of grenades, corner you, flank you, use smoke grenades to obscure 
 their advance, and even hit you with their gun when deemed appropriate. All the while, your allies 
 will fight just as intelligently as the enemy.
  
  In addition, the game uses a Halo-type health system. Although at some points it can make you feel 
 almost too powerful, it really does help the flow of the game. It's pretty obvious when you're 
 badly hurt, as you'll fall to the ground and gasp for breath as the screen gets flushed with red, 
 forcing you to duck behind the nearest building or sandbag while you recover. While sometimes the 
 game turns into a one-man show, you'll never be able to sustain that for more than a couple of 
 small fights, as whenever you're fighting alone you'll always wish that an ally will soon rush 
 up beside you and provide cover fire (and they will, eventually) . 
  
  The game also uses a series of relatively linear objectives. While at first it introduces a nice 
 variety of objectives, it eventually does bogs down into "advance on this position, destroy the 
 tanks, hold position until reinforcements arrive, destroy mortar/artillery teams." There is one 
 level where you're in a tank, but the tank controls don't feel as smooth or easy as you'd like 
 them to (especially when compared to such games as Battlefield) . In addition, in some of the later 
 levels some of the combat can be frustratingly difficult. The game autosaves frequently (and never 
 autosaves while you're actually fighting somebody) , but you'll still sometimes wish you could save 
 it whenever you wanted, as there are a few select difficult sequences where it doesn't save often 
 enough, and the hordes and hordes of enemies never stop coming at any point during the game. And 
 while your objectives are always clear when you get to where you need to be, you won't always know 
 how exactly you're supposed to get there. Your squad will stand around the path to the next place, 
 but it's not always clear exactly where they're standing around (they'll rarely ever advance until 
 you do) .
  
  The truly phenomenal thing about this game, however, is the atmosphere and immersiveness. As you're 
 fighting you'll hear a constant stream of bullets, explosions, and shoting from your allies. They'll 
 yell a veriety of things, such as asking someone to cover them while they reload, warning of a 
 cluster of enemies behind so and so object, warning of grenades, etc. There are two simple types 
 of guns you can use: rifles and machine guns, and both are important in their niche rolls (rifles 
 generally from far away, machine guns in intense, close-up combat) . There's sniper rifles and anti-tank 
 rocket launchers, too, but they're only available in select sequences. Also like Halo, you can 
 only carry 2 weapons at a time, but that's all you'll ever need (a rifle and a machine gun, generally) . 
 There's also grenades, which are extremely useful in this game, and smoke grenades, which you can 
 use as a screen to advance to the next position. The smoke looks awesome from afar and within. 
 In addition, there's a handy grenade indicator that warns you of grenades anytime they fall near 
 you, allowing you to scramble and take cover. The sheer number of sounds that are going on around 
 you are absolutely phenomenal and must be experienced to be believed. No amount of words can do 
 it justice. One level even featured you wiping out numerous houses filled with Germans one by one... as 
 a lightning storm rages overhead and rain falls heavily. However, the game features no leeway on 
 friendly fire. Accidentally killing even one teammate automatically forces you to reload, and it 
 can be hard to diferrentiate between ally and enemy. There will surely be several times throughout 
 the campaign where you accidentally kill a teammate and have to reload from the last save.
  
  The game also features a wide variety of enviroments, from fighting on the cold, snowy streets 
 of Moscow and Stalingrad in the Russian campaign, to fighting Rommel in the dusty desert towns 
 of North Africa in the British campaign, to fighting in quaint European villages house-by-house 
 in the American campaign, providing you with a solid 12 hours of gameplay. The scripted sequences 
 are incredibly believable, helped in no small part by the fantastic voice acting. One particularly 
 awesome sequence has you riding in the back of a truck right before you collide almost head-on 
 with an oncoming German truck. Another has you riding to the beaches of Normandy and climbing up 
 the side of the cliff on D-Day as bullet fire and dead bodies rain down on you. It's a thrilling 
 experience. The entire D-Day level is maximum intensity from start to finish as you climb the cliff, 
 advance methodically through the trenches, move onto a small village to blow up artillery, advance 
 back through the town, and fight your way back to the beach to rendesvous with reinforcements. 
 The game is insanely immersive and intense from start to finish. Sometimes, especially in the D-Day 
 level, the action was so non-stop and intense that I actually had to take a breath and gather my 
 senses for a few minutes. No other game has ever made me do that.
  
  While I certainly didn't cover everything (I haven't even scratched multiplayer yet) , the game 
 is truly an inredible experience. It forces you to work with your teammates, take cover, and think 
 strategically to win, while providing you with non-stop combat. The interface is non-existent and 
 there are no performance issues. It provides an excellent experience in graphics and sound, while 
 making them both essential parts of the gameplay experience. So, if you don't like shooters, there's 
 nothing here that's going to convince you otherwise, because it's still definitely a shooter at 
 heart. However, if you're looking for an intense, combat-intensive game that strays just a bit 
 from the traditional shooter formula yet nails down every aspect of a typical shooter with near-perfection, 
 this game is for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AllH3llbroklose
Rating: 9.6
Date: Apr 21, 2006 12:03 pm PT
Review:  (Review on Gameplay, not graphics.. sorry.)
  
  Call of duty 2 is the sequel to the great Call of Duty PC game. The campaign is very realistic 
 as you take the place of three diffrent soldiers fighting in WWII (Russian, British, American) .
 
  
  The Campaign....
  
  The campaign is a very, very enjoyable experience and it is also very realistic. You start off 
 as a Russian soldier who is in training, but you momentarily join battle. Thats when all the fun 
 begins. 
  
  First off, the voice overs are awesome. Soldiers scream and give out some valuable information 
 sometimes (such as "RIGHT FLANK" or "ENEMIE APPROACHING") . You really just have to experience the 
 game to know how awesome these voice-overs are. 
  
  Another awesome thing about the game is how you ALWAYS have soldiers with you; fighting along side 
 with you. Theres no Rambo action going on through the whole game. This is great because it makes 
 every moment you play like it was a real battle and that you are actually re-living events from 
 WWII.
  
  The sound is kick-a**. I have a bass speaker that I cranked up, and every time there was an explosion, 
 my whole desktop would shake. The gunshots and echoing of other shots and explosions make the game 
 more realistic; therefore making the campaign just as good.
  
  The multiplayer is pretty cool. Theres a whole bunch of servers to choose from, and theres always 
 someone playing no matter what time it is. Theres standard deathmatch and team death match that 
 are fun. Theres also the traditional search and destroy mode which is also pretty popular.
  
  Overall, the game has good features in both campaign and multiplayer. The campaign is compelling 
 and is just incredibly awesome. This is a must own for any PC gamer out there. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bulldawg8879
Rating: 8.8
Date: Apr 21, 2006 10:00 am PT
Review:  This game is great from start to finish although can be a bit repetitive at extended play. At times 
 it does really feel like you are in a warzone from the great sound effects of guns and soldiers 
 shouting to the graphics with smoke billowing up into the sky and germans climbing over walls for 
 cover. I never really cared much for world war 2 games but this must be the best ww2 game because 
 at the end I felt I appreciated the war more. The ending was a bit abrupt for me since I thought 
 I had at least two more missions to go but it was the end. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 360player
Rating: 9.3
Date: Apr 20, 2006 10:34 pm PT
Review:  Right from the beginning you get the satisfaction of shooting Nazis in the nads, and smashing the 
 back of their heads in. Just dont let the retarded ones come up behind you. But pretty much the 
 whole game the AI just stand in front of you and shoot at you, especially on easy. Once in a while 
 you get a grenade thrown at you, but you can most of the time crawl away from them. Even if you 
 dont have HD, this game looks amazing. When you throw a smoke grenade, it's actually smoke that 
 comes out and not just some gray wall. When you kill someone they dont just disappear. Every once 
 and a while, the AI do this play dead thing and start shooting at you as they drag themselves to 
 safety. Altogether, this is a great game that you can show off to your friends that have PS2s. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tomdogg
Rating: 9.7
Date: Apr 19, 2006 1:37 pm PT
Review:  Call of Duty 2 is a cross platform title released along with the Xbox 360, and is also the first 
 next-gen game I ever played. This game is just downright amazing, and it just blew my mind away 
 when I first played. It is the most realistic FPS that I have ever played, and Ive played a good 
 amount of FPSs in my lifetime. This game is really intense and not for the faint of heart.
  
  Graphics- 9/10
  The visuals in this game are awesome when compared with others of its kind, 
 but, it wasnt really what I expected the next-gen visuals to look like. Sure they have many more 
 smaller details done to it, but it just dosent really show off what the next- gen should be. Aside 
 of that, this game look unbelievably amazing, and very real at the same time. Call of Duty 2 also 
 has a framerate that manages to stay smooth and strong, even when there are a ton of bullets, explosion, 
 and gunfights heating up on screen. I was staring at one of the most intense gunfights of the game, 
 and there was no slowdown. In fact, I havent detected any slowdown in this game, and thats no 
 small feat, given Call of Duty 2s open expansive environments. The lighting effects are very lavish, 
 especially with the character models, and the weather effects just rock. 
  
  Sound- 10/10
  The sound is just flawless, with ultra crisp voice acting, all the way to the individual 
 footsteps. If you listen closely, you can hear footsteps all around from either your enemies, or 
 you teammates. Every sound is on cue with the actions happening on screen, and the developers hammered 
 down the individual different sounds with the different types of flooring. The guns sound very 
 realistic, and the vehicle sounds almost fooled me into thinking that they were real. If I had 
 closed my eyes while playing this game, I might have been fooled that it wasnt real. 
  
  Gameplay- 10/10
  This game is almost too intense!!! The game can become so real at times, that 
 you may feel like you are actually part of World War II. Thats how intense this is. They have 
 a variety of Russian, British, American, and German weapons from WWII, and everything about them 
 has been nailed down perfectly. There are some weapons that were very accurate in WWII, and some 
 that couldnt hit an enemy soldier to save its life. The developers nailed down those distinguishing 
 characteristics of each and every weapon during the game. In addition to that, there are a couple 
 of missions where you actually get to drive a tank, and those couple of levels in my opinion, are 
 the most intense levels in the game. I would have like to have seen more American, until I realized 
 that this game sets aside the minor battles, and focuses more on the significant battles of WWII. 
 Other than that, this game is just plain intense, and the multiplayer mode, adds even more replay 
 value to an already extremely polished game.
  
  Q. Should I buy, or should I rent?
  A. If you are a huge fan of WWII, buy this game. If not, rent it first, and theres a strong chance 
 that you will want to buy this baby!!!
  
  In the end, fans of WWII and people searching for a solid first person shooter would be fools not 
 to pick up this game. Its really that good. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: _-TKC-_karakias
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 19, 2006 5:47 am PT
Review:  This game is amzing it packs all the booty you'd expect from a classic shootem 'up then spits it 
 back t ylou with loads of superb extras also the mods on multiplayer make this game one of a kind. 
 The thing i found about this game was the single player AND the multiplayer were great usually 
 (this is shown greatly in the halo series) you'd get good single player or good multiplayer yet 
 this has both so i'd recommend it to everyone. Also i like the game cos i did best on all my games 
 for 1 month but noobs will to! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: soadslipknot
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 19, 2006 4:01 am PT
Review:  I have played the single player on hardened mode from the start and it can be very challenging 
 at points but also great fun. If you have played the previous Call of Duty then I would suggest 
 you can probably start on hardened mode. The AI is very good in this mode. I cant compare it to 
 other modes as I have not played with them. I am a skilled player at least in single player and 
 even find it challenging at times myself in this mode which is what should happen as games need 
 a challenge.
  
  If you chuck grenades then they will attempt to run away from these and will not just look at them 
 exploding. You will also hear calls of grenade (in German) as they run away which you would expect 
 in a war. If you surprise the enemy such as charging around a corner at them they attempt to take 
 cover if they have some near whilst they fight back.
  
  The sound for this game has to stand out as one of the best features as it is very realistic. The 
 sound of the gun fire was recorded from the real guns. If you have a 3D sound card then you can 
 easily pin point were people are. It is also realistic in the fact of if you are within a building 
 then sound from outside can sound quiet as it is coming through a wall.
  
  The graphics on a good system are unbelievably good. I run mine on medium settings for multiplayer 
 to improve my FPS (Frames per Second) and even with these settings it look crystal clear.
  
  The single player does last a long time and has a lot of action involved. It is definately 
 the best WW2 single player I have ever played.
  
  The multiplayer mode has such a large replay value. I have been playing multiplayer mode since 
 the game came out and still am not even slightly bored with it. When you first join you will usually 
 find it very hard to get a kill as most players know all the maps and have some experience with 
 multiplayer, but with continueus play you will improve.
  
  There are many clans around which are filled with friendly people willing to let you join them. 
 This adds to the multiplayer as you can play with a group of people you know and work as a team 
 in leagues or just friendly matches.
  
  All in all this is the best WW2 game around and in my opinion the best Online multiplayer game 
 available. Would definately recommend it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thetsar
Rating: 9.3
Date: Apr 18, 2006 7:43 pm PT
Review:  This is the game that all WWII fans should have. The single player is great on this game. The developers 
 did good on nailing down the look and feel of the game. After playing a level with my surround 
 sound on, I felt like I needed a nap. You get to play as Russian, American, and British armies. 
 My favorite is the Russians. The multiplayer is also a strong contender in this game. The online 
 play is fluid with no lag on my end. Massive deathmatches will leave you with an overall feeling 
 of being overpowered. This game is a bit of a system hog on PC though. I have to run the game at 
 medium graphics to play, but it still looks awesome. The health system also removes some of the 
 challenge. It follows a Halo health system that recharges between fighting. This can remove some 
 of the challenge. In conclusion, if you like WWII games or just shooter or you need this game. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Devouring_One
Rating: 8.9
Date: Apr 18, 2006 7:09 pm PT
Review:  Call of Duty 2 is just like its predecessor. It has intense action and engaging gameplay. I remember 
 the original one, it was great and it had real good action. This is just like it. So if you were 
 expecting it to be like the first one, it is; which is good and bad at the same time.
  
  It's good since it has great action. The realistic combat and action filled gameplay will keep 
 you satisfied. You do a lot of shooting and there are plenty of different weapons for you to choose 
 from. You play as different people throughout the game like Americans, Russians, and British. So 
 each type of campaign will give you different weapons to choose from. You get to drive tanks and 
 use gun turrets. Those dont get boring. One thing that will play a significant role in this game 
 is grenades. The AI in this game is intelligent, so youll have to think more strategically. You 
 might want to use grenades to frag them and use smoke grenades to conceal yourself. But the AI 
 is not stupid. When you throw grenades at them, they will throw it back. So its probably better 
 to stick to smoke grenades.
  
  Some say that this is too much like the original and there was nothing different. This I happen 
 to agree with. This game isn't really any different from the first one. There's a lot of shooting 
 and fighting. So if you played the first one, it's almost the same. All this gameplay is recycled. 
 There are different campaigns that allow you to play as different people, but they all feel the 
 same; especially if it's the same from the first one.
  
  Some things did change in this game. One of the first things you might notice is that there's no 
 life bar. You don't need to keep track of it and get life now. The screen is your life. When you 
 get hit your screen turns red and it encloses in the more you get hit. So if you get hit too much, 
 the whole screen turns red and you can't see as much. This makes the war fighting feeling more 
 powerful. So the more you get hit, the redder it becomes until you die. After a while it heals, 
 which makes it quite easy to get your life back. Also, you can hold your breath now, which makes 
 it easier to sniper people. You don't shake as much.
  
  The presentation of this game is excellent. This game does a great job at looking real. The graphics 
 are phenomenal and the how the game is shown is good. It looks like your in the war fighting. You 
 camera shakes if there's an explosion like you're actually the person in the game.
  
  The audio is outstanding. There's great voice acting and plenty of sound effects. The effects are 
 great. It makes you feel like you in the war. There are plenty of explosions and shooting like 
 a real war and you hear all of it.
  
  This game is short though. The game can last you, but it ends pretty quick. It feels like each 
 mission ends pretty quickly. They aren't too short, but there should have been more. Theres not 
 much so it ends faster than you expect.
  
  This is a great action game for you gamers who like action. If you played the first one, you might 
 feel like its the same as the first one. But it's worth getting. It's quite fun and easy to learn 
 to play. So if you want action, get this game, it will not disappoint.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jdh77dsp
Rating: 9.8
Date: Apr 16, 2006 12:37 pm PT
Review:  I thought the first Call of Duty was good but this game is just so much better. The best war game 
 I have ever played. This game is awesome, truly outstanding. There was only one serious problem 
 that barely kept it from being perfect. The gameplay was awesome. The graphics were so real. The 
 sound was great. The value was the one thing wrong with this game.
  
  Gameplay-10
  The gameplay deserves ten all the way, maybe thats just because I am a big first person shooter 
 fan, I have absolutly no idea why gamespot only gave it a nine. All the different country's you 
 got to play as (Russians, British, and U. S. A) only made it better. The replay value it great, it 
 never gets boring no madder how many times you have played it. They could have put in a little 
 bit more variety of guns, that is the only (small) problem that the gameplay had.
  
  Graphics-10
  The graphics were extremely good. They couldn't have been that much better. They 
 were great, if you were stupid enough you could have believed that you were actually in WW2.
  
  Sound-10
  The sound was yet another perfect thing about the game. The guns sounded real. 
 The voices were really good, they had a real accent that was right for the country that person 
 was fighting for. The vehicles sounded like real vehicles.
  
  Value-9
  So close to a ten, but the problem was when one of your teammates that was clearly shot and killed, 
 you would see them again later. Other than that one little problem the value was pretty close to 
 a ten.
  
  Final thought-Other than the value this game was perfect, if you han'nt bought this game yet, you 
 should, this game is extremely fun especially if you like first person shooter based in WW2. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: foever86
Rating: 9.1
Date: Apr 15, 2006 4:42 pm PT
Review:  As you start your first mission as soviet soldier, you will already feel like you are in the middle 
 of a intense war. After very quick training session, you will start shooting at germain right away. 
 Improved control interface, improved graphic, and better AI, I would say this game improved alot, 
 but there is one thing I do not understand. Apparently, developers got rid of your health meters. 
 In fact, you don't have any limited health. If you get shot enough by enemy, the dege of the screen 
 will turn red, and "You are hurt, take cover" will flash in the middle of the screen. At this moment, 
 if you get additional shot, you will die, but if you take cover successfully until the screen comes 
 back to normal, it seems like you have got your full health back. So, unlike from the previous 
 one, (If you get 50 damage, your health will stay at 50 permanently until you get medicine or finish 
 the mission) , you can just take cover to get your health back to 100. (If you get some damage, you 
 just take cover to get your health back to 100) . Although it's got a wierd way to heal yourself, 
 it is still a great game to play, and in fact if you don't really care about this fact, you might 
 like the game better because you don't have to run around looking for health kit. With great sound 
 and great graphic, I would say this is one of the best World War themed first person shooter so 
 far. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cabelhigh
Rating: 9.7
Date: Apr 15, 2006 1:27 pm PT
Review:  really this game is frigen awsome. The action is nonstop and the sound sucks you in like it's a 
 real war. The weapons look fantastic, but i thought that the textuires could be improved a lot. 
 The multiplayer is some of the best ever, with nonstop choatic action with grenades flying everywere 
 and dying every two seconds. it sometimes gets a bit monatnus, as some of the mission objestives 
 are the same in every mission, but overall the sp is great. highly recommened to anyone who likes 
 shooters.
  
  grenades grenades grenades grenades grenades grenades grenades grenades grenades grenades vgrenades 
 grenades grenades grenades grenades grenades grenades 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Deveousdevil
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 14, 2006 6:57 am PT
Review:  This is the BEST WW2 game ever. The graphics are unparralel. The details are incredible. The way 
 you see the other characters breath, and the texture of the snowflakes and the rain, and in the 
 britsh levels, the way the sand flies in teh air. The gaming is just insane. This game has the 
 best gameplay, and the coolest levels. Another thing about all Call of Duty games in general, are 
 the black and white movies about the war. The objectives are really fun. The game is extremely 
 realistic, and great. teh best part about the game, is that you dont have a health meter, if you 
 get hurt really bad, everything goes in slow-mo, like in the other call of duties. I love this 
 game sssoo much but i cant play it cuz my computer sucks. If yu have a good graphics card and ram, 
 do not wait another second, either download this game or buy it, no matter what!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ryaz_weaponx
Rating: 9.1
Date: Apr 14, 2006 12:05 am PT
Review:  STORY  The game follows the real life events which look place during World War II. You play The 
 Russians, British & American all revolting & taking down the Germans.
  
  SOUND  The musical score, sound effects & voice overs are just too realistic, you actually feel 
 the tension, agony & emotions through the voice actings.
  
  GRAPHICS  Bringing history to the present aint an easy job but the guys at ACTIVISON & INFINITY 
 WARD have done a great job. The environments are simply beautifull, the real time physics, gun models, 
 your uniform, your troops are just an exact replica of WW2.
  
  GAMEPLAY - Now heres the best part, CALL OF DUTY 2 does not make you feel as if youre playing 
 a game, it just takes you back in time to the past, & makes you fight the wars that changed today. COD2 
 puts you in reality check which means that you cant carry more than two guns, four frag grenades 
 & four smoke grenades. The funny thing is that there is no med pack system so its like you just 
 heal on yourself which is a bit weird but that wont bother you. The gameplay is really challenging 
 as the games AI is just awesome for e. g. If you throw a grenade at your enemy theyll throw it 
 right back at you, if they run out of bullets theyll run towards you & slam you with theyre gun. 
 Apart from the usual shooting you also get to control armored cars, tanks, anti air guns & you 
 also control shellings in certain parts in other words you get to fight a real war. Locations 
 & mission designs are just overwhelming.
  
  PROS  A. I., amazing gameplay, beautiful environments & sound.
  
  VERDICT  A MUST PLAY FOR 
 ALL.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: EliteHacker3
Rating: 8.5
Date: May 27, 2006 6:02 am PT
Review:  There is nothing more exciting than running through an open field with guns blazing on both sides. 
 The **** war machine furiously shoots at you. Nearing your objective, boom. You've been shot with 
 the infamous Kar98.
  
  Universally, there are two opposing sides. The Third Reich vs the Allies. In every single map, 
 the German side is always present. The opposition varies from the Americans, British, and Russian. 
 The guns, though with different names, do not vary much in function. They include the Pistol, 2 
 Submachine guns, a bolt action rifle, a semi rifle, and a shotgun. Sometimes, there are special 
 weapons, such as the BAR.
  
  In the multiplayer, it is a general run 'n' gun, with little to no strategy unless playing in small 
 servers with numbers like 5 on 5. Though many do not like those games, it shows the true tactical 
 side, with a more unified sense, with people working together. I feel that this is one of the major 
 drawbacks as most servers have huge amounts of players, making to too chaotic for beginners to 
 learn. It is often frustrating as you don't leave your spawn for 10 deaths in a row. 
  
  The single player is breath taking, with strategy, often making you plan your course of action. 
 However, there is usually one linear path to take, and if you don't get it right the first time, 
 just do the same thing and hope for better. Still very fun and the graphics and sound effects will 
 draw you in and probably won't let you go until your parents are beating you from behind. More 
 so, After your done with single player, there are hordes of enemies and friends you will meet online, 
 ensuring a fun replay ability.
  
  Although everything is gorgeous, the DX9 optimization is a real joke. With my machine, a 7800GT, 
 AMD 4000+ San Diego 2.4ghz, 2GB RAM, I get a mere 40-50FPS on DX9. A good piece of advice is to 
 run it on DX9 for single player so you get the full expierence but turn it to DX7 for internet.
 
  
  All in all, Call of Duty 2 has to be one of the best World War II games ever made, with very few 
 flaws. The major drawback in my honest opinion, is also what makes it such a good game, giving 
 it a chaotic feel that is present in war. Though a great game, it's somewhat messy and crude. However, 
 the sheer fun draws away from the lack of orginization. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: easteast
Rating: 9.8
Date: Apr 13, 2006 12:55 pm PT
Review:  I bought this game with the birthday money I had leftover. I have only had this game for about 
 2 weeks, and it is already one of my all-time favorite games! Keep reading this review, I promise 
 it will answer any questions you have about the game. If not, then just send me a message.
  
  First off, this is worth every penny you spent. There are 3 campaigns you can follow. The Russians, 
 The British, and The Americans :) . I like the British campaign best because I 've gotten so used 
 to it from the demo. The weapons in the game are totally awesome! I love the 2 missions where you 
 are leading a tank around the egyptian desert in the British campaign. It adds a lot of variety.
 
  
  The really only bad part is that it only took me about 3 days with 5 hour periods of time each 
 day to finish the easy setting on the game. Oh and also, if you like to cheat, then don't expect 
 to do that here. It's really hard to get the cheat codes to work. Otherwise, the game is phenomonal.
 
  
  Overall, This is an amazing experience that everyone should have. I don't care whether it's on 
 the PC or Xbox 360, go out and buy this game if you haven't already. 
  
  I would recommend this to somone no matter what. Even if they don't like video games, they'll love 
 it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GamingBoy2009
Rating: 9.1
Date: Apr 12, 2006 3:57 pm PT
Review:  COD2 has 3 campaigns: Soviet, British, and American campaigns. And each one is awesome. Not to 
 mention some tank missions. COD2 takes you to places such as North Africa, Stalingrad, and the 
 stormy areas of France. Many authentic weapons including the Lee-Enfield rifle and the M1 Garand. 
 not to mention many automatic weapons including the old American favorite the Thompson or Tommy 
 gun. Though the campaigns are short, it makes up in the next-gen graphics. Unfortunatly the game 
 play can be choppy because the computer (at least my computer) has to take in so much data that 
 the game can slow down a lot. Still I like it and its well worth the money. Not to mention the 
 sound is neat. (that spling noise that the M1 Garand makes when the clip is empty is still there 
 too.) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Keurig
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 11, 2006 4:26 pm PT
Review:  This is in my opinion one of the best World War II first person shooters. The single player in 
 the game is fantastic, the single player game-play is fantastic.
  The multi-player is fantastic, a great maps to play on. the types of maps are great. they are great 
 for anyone. and at this point in time there is a great number of servers to play on.
  But it is not without its flaws, it at times can be difficult to find your favorite servers if 
 you keep the automatic download feature on, it just displays the server and any others that they 
 own.
  
  But overall a great game, it brings some uniqueness to a genre thats been way to overdone 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gamer150
Rating: 8.9
Date: Apr 10, 2006 7:10 pm PT
Review:  Let's face it, there is an overflow of WWII shooters out on the market. Do we really need another? 
 Maybe not, but COD2 provides a great combination of intense gameplay and a solid single player 
 campaign to be worthy of your PC game collection.
  
  Gameplay:
  
  No other game has pulled me into the chaos of war as much as COD2 has. Enemies come from everywhere 
 it seems, so you have to be on your toes. The AI isn't stupid either, as they work like a team. 
 You also can't just charge out firing and hope to kill all the bad guys, like in some FPS's. That's 
 a good way to die in this game. You'll have to take cover, watch out for grenades, and take your 
 shots when you have the opportunity. There are a variety of weapons in this game, and each of them 
 handle differently. Mastering the nuisances of each gun is important if you hope to stay alive. 
 
  
  Graphics:
  
  Without a doubt, COD2 has some of the best graphics I have ever seen. There are details such as 
 dust clouds in the desert and snow caked on a soldier's uniform. Character models are well animated 
 and very detailed as well. However, to enjoy the graphics, you need a high-end PC. My rig has 3.2ghz, 
 1 gig of ram, and a 256mb PCI-E graphics card and I can't run it on max settings without serious 
 lag, but I can still run it on fairly high settings. Unfortunately, running it on the lowest settings 
 will take away all the great graphic effects that make this game so visually stunning, to paraphrase 
 Gamespot's COD2 hardware guide.
  
  Sound:
  
  Explosions, gunshots, and other soliders shouting at each other really put you in the middle of 
 an intense battle. If you got a good sound system, you'll swear that there are bombs dropping all 
 around you. Also, all the guns sound different as well. Belive me, I can tell the difference in 
 this game between the sound of a M-1 Garande and the sound of a Lee-Enfield.
  
  Value:
  
  The single player campaign has 27 missions to go through. At the higher levels it will take 
 you awhile to get through them all. Unfortunately like many other games, once you beat single player, 
 there is really no reason to do it again. Fortunately, COD2 features a solid multiplayer mode. 
 There's a good variety of maps and the action is even more intense than the single player. However, 
 the variety of game types available isn't all that great. Even so, you'll want to play multiplayer 
 again and again.
  
  Reviewers Tilt:
  
  Simply put, this is a must have game if you are into FPS. If your system can handle it, go pick 
 up COD2 and have fun blasting **** 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Crusaderlord
Rating: 8.9
Date: Apr 10, 2006 10:53 am PT
Review:  Intensive combats, Historicly loyal, realistic theres no more to say !
  Gentlemans this game is a winner. The only bad thing is too short.
  From the URSS, North Africa, 
 France and Germany, from land and water theres COD2.
  Describes very good the WWII living and combat experience wich of course are somewhat very heroic 
 in some cases.
  Variaty is also other vallour to this game as we can play as a russian soldier , brittish sergeant, 
 tank commander and american corporal prepare for sweat, tears and blood.
  Finishing wich master scenes, explosions in a middle of the combat , the battlecries of both sides 
 the game projects the player in its reality in a very intuitive way. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Slunks
Rating: 8.9
Date: Apr 28, 2006 8:34 pm PT
Review: A pint of sweat will save a gallon of blood. "
  
  -Gen. George S. Patton
  
  It's sayings like these you will be thinking in the back of 
 your head as you are running across the open fields while a MG42 is firing upon you, and mortar 
 bombs landing all around you as you are trying to make way to your comrades.
  
  The first word that comes to my mind when I think about this game has to be; Intense. Like crap 
 your pants intense. After you play a level or two, you'll begin to think to yourself. People actually 
 went through this!? This has to be one of the most gut-wrenching games I have played in a long 
 while.
  
  In Call of Duty 2 you will be playing a few characters such as the "Tank Hunter" known as Vasili 
 for the Soviet Union who is trying to protect their Motherland from the overrunning Germans using 
 Blitzkrieg tactics. You also play two characters whose name I cannot remember for the British. 
 Then you do the good ol' DDay thing with the American's.
  
  Now when you think of Blitzkrieg tactics as mentioned about, you probably thinkOh great an excuse 
 for bad AI who just charge at you without second thought ". Actually, the AI in this game is actually 
 rather good. I won't say that it's the best I've ever seen either. There's a few bugs/glitches 
 I've encountered with them. But nonetheless they areabove average ".
  
  And when your teammates aren't properly keeping you covered, don't worry. Healthbars are so last 
 FPS. They now have it so you have no Healthbar, and if you get shot too many times depending on 
 the difficulty your dead. The more you get shot you will start to pant heavily. You must take cover 
 and not get shot for a few seconds and you will be back to normal.
  
  Speaking of difficulty, to explain it. If you have it on Easy you will probably be able to take 
 7 or so shots. And for the hardest difficulty you will probably be only to take 2 to 4 at the max. 
 I've played through all of the difficultys, and they about, Just Right ". There are a few spots 
 in levels that may be easier or harder then the regular flow of the game. But it doesn't throw 
 anything off.
  
  The graphics are definitely crisp and fluid, especially with DirectX9 on. The smoke is unreal looking, 
 as in it's very nice. The snow pouring down on you in -30C weather is a nice touch to.
  
  Expect your jaw to be hitting the floor hard when you are literally doing a "protect the Alamo-like 
 fight. When it's about 20vs200, 20 being you. Of course. Seriously the stuff you witness and you 
 think to yourself that people actually went through all of this. You'll feel proud.
  
 But Mr. Slunks reviewer guy, what about the sound in this game? ". Game!? I laugh at you, ha 
 ha ha ha. The sound is VERY good in this game. From the short military snare drum riffs for the 
 title screen to the bullets flying by you. The sound is top-notch quality. They actually went out 
 and got all of the guns in real life that you play in the game and recording the sound of them 
 shooting it and used it in the game.
  
  If you're used to FPS's you'll get used to the controls within 10 minutes or so, plus the tutorial 
 really sets you up nice. And the tutorial isn't boring at all, considering it lasts only about 
 3 minutes at the most depending on how fast or slow you are. Then you jump right into the action 
 and your already shooting up those crazy Germans.
  
  The performance of this game is solid, you can turn off DirectX9 and turn on DirectX7 at the in 
 game config menu, this will turn off many details in the game such as the snow on the Russia levels 
 and the crinkles in the peoples clothes. Which greatly reduces any FPS trouble you may be having.
 
  
  The online gameplay is well done to, many different modes to play on. But I wasn't on it much considering 
 I spent too much time on this game then I should and now I have a backpile. But it was fun and 
 some servers feature a killcam, which is a replay of the last 10 seconds or so, but your viewing 
 your opponents screen. So you can see how he killed you, it's really a nice feature.
  
  So to sum all of this up, if you've read this far. This is a great WWII shooter, which might sound 
 old, reused & done before. But it's different, and not boring different. Expect your jaw hanging 
 or being on your toes through this game. There's alot of big time scenarios you will be going through 
 and experiences this game has brought me I will not be forgetting anytime this year.
  
  There is nothing particularly bad about this game, the AI is above average but it lacks at certain 
 times. Also you can't pick up nades and throw them back, however your teammates can. The game will 
 take you about 10 hours to beat or so. But you can find yourself playing through Singleplayer again 
 on another difficulty. Not to mention the Multiplayer can make it last even longer.
  
  The only reason not to buy this game is if you are not happy with blood, which there is an option 
 to turn it off last time I checked. Go buy Call of Duty 2, you won't regret the memories this game 
 will bring you....
  
 WWII games have been done so many times, but it has never been done this well before. "
  
 
  The Pro's
  +Great Singleplayer campaign
  +Incredibly intense
  +AI is more then decent
  +Events are incredibly well done
  +Great sound
  +Health system
  +Multiplayer isn't half bad
 
  
  The Con's
  -AI is buggy in rare cases
  -Ends abruptly 
::::::

::::::
UserName: g0t12ic3
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 9, 2006 12:06 am PT
Review:  Call of Duty 2 is the sequel to Call of Duty which had I believe 2 expansion packs. Though I never 
 played the original or it's expansions I can tell you this Call of Duty 2 is among of one of the 
 best WWII shooters available on the market today. The graphics are one of the best on the PC and 
 isn't a system hog which is great for those with older video cards. Fortunately it also rewards 
 those with the newer ones as it looks beautiful on a flat screen monitor and will immerse you into 
 the game thanks to the presentation and the sounds that accompany it. Now first lets talk about 
 the single player campaign. This is where Call of Duty 2 impresses me the most is the campaign. 
 Not even that it has a great level design but the enemy AI is also impressive! Though not as amazing 
 as the enemies in FEAR they're good enough to not be a dumbass and stand there. It also lasts anywhere 
 between 6-9 hours to beat. The multiplayer also is very chaotic and exilerates you with excitement. 
 Since in most servers there will most likely be many players especially on CTF there is just chaos 
 and confusion as grenades will be going off and if the server had the ADMIRAL mod they will also 
 include artillery fire. All in all though if your looking for a fun fast-paced or slow-paced shooter 
 (depends the way you play) I couldn't think of a better game to choose than this one. Unless of 
 course you only can spare $20 which you can go ahead and get DOD: Source which wallah another a 
 great WWII shooter. Though the genre is often over played and used this game happens to freshen 
 everything up with a satisfying taste. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mongolchikn
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 8, 2006 3:09 pm PT
Review:  I know it may seem like I rated this game a little high, but after playing it i cant give it anything 
 lower. When you first pop this game in, usually the average gamer would start playing on normal, 
 but trust me when i say that after the first level youll want to play it on veteran. Playing this 
 game on veteran is like being there in real life, and if you ever thought that tou were good enough 
 in the game to be good in real life, your wrong. getting through the game on veteran sithout dying 
 is virtually impossible, but worth it. Another great part of the game is the Halo like health system. 
 you have "sheilds", and then the screen gets red. if you get hit while your screen is red you will 
 probably die.
  
  Don't even think of pressing that multiplayer button when you boot up for the first time, because 
 you will never play the campaign. Words cannot describe how much fun (and how much I own) in multiplayer. 
 there are tons of maps and modes, and every level is fun to play in. wether your playing with 64 
 or 4 other people, fun will be had during every battle. this game is best played with a new graphics 
 card, and 5.1 surround sound. if you dont have the latest and greatest sound/graphics, it will 
 take away from the experience. Without a doubt, this is the best call of duty yet, and worth every 
 penny, buy this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: superb_01
Rating: 9.3
Date: Apr 6, 2006 6:54 pm PT
Review:  Another World war 2 shooter. It dosen't realy looks like Battlefield 1942 but a bit similiar to 
 Medal of honors. As gamespot said. And i think the same think.
  
  This game won't bored you off the computer with all it's noise. All you hear in the game is shoots 
 comin out of nowhere. It has realy cool sounds. And if you turn your speaker on... it feels like playing 
 for a long long time.
  
  The graphics are cool. They are awsome. The envirement is good expet when you fight on night that's 
 boring and it's hard to see enemy not every time but some time. The AI are good. The game is not 
 hard to play and it realy feels like a World War 2 movie.
  
  I recomend you Call of Duty.
  
  I give it 9.3!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Flatline911
Rating: 9.2
Date: Apr 6, 2006 1:27 pm PT
Review:  this game is very intense... the missions are great and fun... it has nonstop action the whole time 
 on single player and on multiplayer it is very good too... the graphics are great and this is a 
 very good game
  i just bought the game and played it for a couple missions and a little on multiplayer, but so far, from 
 what i have played, the game is great and very intense
  
                                                                 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wow7009
Rating: 7
Date: Apr 6, 2006 12:16 pm PT
Review:  This is a very good game but Infinity Ward has alot of work to do on this game to make it the very 
 best WW 2 FPS. 1st, there no vehicles, no physics engine which many fps's have to date, no "variety 
 of gamplay", the maps are not truly open ended, and the game needs more features to make it stand 
 out.
  
  When you play cod 2, you feel like your basicly playin cod but with hyped up graphics. There no 
 added features, no artillery, bomb raids, no parachute drops, nobodys flyin or displayin realistic 
 physics. Litle things like being able to rest your gun on a sand bag for example, is missing. ALOT 
 could have been added to make this game a 10. The game seems repetative and boring. Hopefully COD 
 3 will be a bigger hit than this game.
  
  I was looking forward to a realistic, intense, never seen before ww2 flps and I didnt get that. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: darthrevan1
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 5, 2006 4:11 pm PT
Review:  Call of duty 2 is about as good as a game can get
  great graphics sound and gameplay mix to make a game that lives up to the high expectations set 
 by previous games in the series 
  there are 3 basic components of the singleplayer game 
  Russian
  English 
  and American
  each brings new and fun mission styles and new skills that 
 you are required to learn in order to succeed
  the multiplayer as in the first one, is great with 5 or 6 different modes to choose from
  so 
 overall, call of duty 2 is a great historical fps that if you don't allready own it, would be a 
 fine addition to your library 
::::::

::::::
UserName: revolutionrulez
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 5, 2006 2:54 am PT
Review:  call of duty 2 is THE game for anyone expecially if you like war games the multiplayer is a great 
 thing but you need internet access and the story mode rocks this game has insane graphics and deserves 
 10/10 i love this game so much and i dont think its possible to get bored with it because there 
 is such a big varity of things to do in it and if anyone says to you its not a good game they are 
 lying i even got my pc upgraded to play it because my old one didnt have the minimum system requirements 
 so all in all it cost me about 100 but i dont care cause it is worth every penny 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zoostyle
Rating: 9.6
Date: Apr 4, 2006 6:52 pm PT
Review:  Awesome game! I have not finished it yet but what I have played (the first 6 levels) I am blown 
 away by it!
  
  You are pretty much in World War II, save for the real deal, which many of us would NOT want to 
 go through! You play as a Soviet infantryman, a British Tommy, or a US Army Ranger on D-Day at 
 Pont-du-Hoc. The graphics are AMAZING! As close to next gen as you can get nowadays on a PC. I 
 saw the X-360 version too and it looks comparable. My PC chugs it right along and brings the battles 
 home to my living room, so to speak.
  
  Sound is awesome and your weapons sound authentic and boom out. Grenades explode, bullets wizz 
 by, enemy soldiers scream at you in German (what else?) you are there! Immersion is damn near complete!
 
  
  I still play it time to time I have not gotten into MP as I usually don't for some reason (except 
 for BF series of games)
  
  BUY THIS GAME!!!!
  
  "COMMUNISTA!!!" 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JabbasChef
Rating: 8.9
Date: Apr 3, 2006 11:34 pm PT
Review:  Call of duty was a great game still is a great game call of duty 2 is almost just as good. 
  
  (Gameplay) Call of duty2 has the same feel as call of duty which is a good thing. the pc version 
 is way better than the xbox360 one. the gameplay is really just load the map pick team weapon then 
 head out and have fun its really great. the single player is intencse just like multiplayer and 
 its just as fun. the multiplayer does have some changes from cod1 such as there's less recoil and 
 there net coding is a little messed up but not a really big problem
  
  (graphics) The enviroments are just amazing it looks even better with a high quality pc it looks 
 sooo real you will be amazed.
  
  (Sound) The enviroment sounds and the weapons noises are just great you fire an mp44 and it sounds 
 great
  
  (value) 50$ well spent 
  
  (final thoughts) this game is great fun and excitment for call of duty vetrans to newbies alike 
 this game in my opinion is one of the best war games ever.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rocker500
Rating: 9.6
Date: Apr 3, 2006 2:49 pm PT
Review:  Story- 10/10: Call of Duty 2 does a great job of sticking you right in the middle of these famous 
 WWII battles.
  
  Gameplay- 10/10: It probably won't take you longer than 30 minutes to master the controls of this 
 game, if you've played a FPS for PC before.
  
  Graphics- 10/10: These graphics were great when the game first came out, and they are still pretty 
 good today.
  
  Sound- 9/10: Awesome since they got the gun sounds directly from the actual guns.
  
  Value- 
 8/10: After beating the single player campaign, you'll have alot of fun in multiplayer, but sometimes 
 it can get repetitive. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: IcyGamer
Rating: 9.1
Date: Apr 2, 2006 2:31 pm PT
Review:  This is probably one of the best games dealing about the second World War. Honestly, earlier, when 
 i had not played the game yet, i considered it a sequest garbage about the second World War. I 
 changed my mind as i saw the graphic of this game which is also one of the best of one's time.
 
  The first thing i look at the game is just the graphic, thereafter the story, and if both are 
 good, i like the game. With Call of Duty 2 both were excellent, what is not been seen everyday. 
 There is no lack of reality and real physics as well as in many other games.
  The missions were diverse and not too short. A good thing is that if a weapon made in one's own 
 country does not please, one can snap a weapon of a dead enemy which might be better. My favourites 
 were German weapons, for 32 bullets/shots in a gun barrel is better than British 20. Smoke grenades 
 are of great help in the game too, these can be used successfully almost everywhere.
  Audioeffects are also quite real and enjoyable, what supports the rating of the game.
  The mobility 
 and control of the character is not a problem in CoD2, this is just extremely good! There has not 
 been added any movement which has remained unused, this means that there are very few of disterbing 
 factors.
  There are no bad features i might point out, maybe only that the story of the game has already 
 been used up, as there are enormously many of games concerning the second World War.
  In conclusion, CoD2 offers an amazing and great playing experience, i would recommend it to everybody 
 who has not played it.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: zeph_
Rating: 8.3
Date: Apr 1, 2006 11:40 am PT
Review:  great game eaasy too play and always fun. normally in reviews i talk about overall game play on 
 this one im going to hype about the multi player internet play. its the best thing ever. killing 
 the nazis. killing the yanks. killing everyone in site. its absoloutly FANTASTIC. two player two 
 player two player two player two player two player two player two player two player two player 
 two player two player two player two player two player two player two player two player two player 
 two player two player two player two player two player two player two player. the BEST thing ever 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: eka424
Rating: 8.9
Date: Mar 31, 2006 6:36 pm PT
Review:  Ok, My Review For CoD 2. I've been into the CoD gaming community for a little over a year now. 
 CoD 1 Was great, Uo was Great. And now heres CoD 2. Now as most fo you know there are very mixed 
 opinions for CoD 2, some gave it 5.0's and some gave it 10's. Here is your real answer to the world 
 of CoD 2. CoD 2 has a very nice presentation, VERY great realistic war sounds, infact some of the 
 best, great gun modelling, historically accurate, Graphics are amazing as well if puit on dx9. 
 If you dont have a top card you may not enjoy this part of CoD 2, as dx7 grpahics look a bit better 
 then cod UO. Singe player action is very well done as well, some of the maps are beautifully rendered, 
 AI is pretty good, and it is ACTION packed, makes you really feel like wanting to take cover while 
 your squad covers for you, but it does have some good quality solo action as well. Anyone new to 
 CoD series should no doubt buy this game. Now, the multiplayer seems to grudge many on CoD 2. Multiplayter 
 gives you a variety of different maps and modes to keep you on it for a while, SD, TDM, HQ, CTF 
 HTF. The maps are generally well designed and most are fun to play on. So anyone who hasnt gotten 
 a cod series yet, CoD 2 will deffo impress u. Now, many say the mjulti sucks in cod 2 (ppl with 
 cod experience do) , i definately felt that way as well, ONLY because it was different. Darker, 
 recoil ,sprinting etc. And things like no anti cheat, which will come out in a ptach soon to be 
 released btw. If all you experienced UO/Cod 1 gamers gave a week into 2, youll love it, trust me, 
 youll just say **** the differences, its all the same COD 
::::::

::::::
UserName: laxdaddy
Rating: 9.4
Date: Mar 31, 2006 5:16 am PT
Review:  Most anyone who plays games would more than likely be very impressed with Call of Duty 2's authentic 
 presentation, well designed and often very intense single-player missions, and fast-paced, entertaining 
 multiplayer modes. , this first-rate WWII first-person shooter is every bit as intense and hard-hitting 
 as the 1st version of the game. You will always want to come back for more and will never stop 
 playing! The graphics put you inside the game and makes it real. They added every little detail 
 to a butterfly to the crumbling buildings. Online play gives you maps from the game and give you 
 a chance to play with the best of the best. Know your opponents and anticipate there moves! Choose 
 from a variety of different weapons. Its an endless classic. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Armor_Key
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 31, 2006 12:02 am PT
Review:  Well, in my opinion, I think Battlefield is way better. Yes, you can play online, but it is'n fun 
 as in the Battlefield. Not to mention the Single Player mode, which can be really frustrating and 
 it's not that fun anyways. 
  Well, the graphics are good, but still aren't better than Battlefield's. Well, graphics aren't 
 really that important anyways. 
  Sounds are pretty good, they are hard to compare to Battlefield, sounds also feel pretty realistic 
 in this game too. This is where it takes the right direction.
  The game is still fun to play online or in single player, as long as you can keep your cool. The 
 enemy's AI is good as in the Battlefield and that's also a good thing, still I prefer you go with 
 the Battlefield before you try this game. I know I wasn't disappointed.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: nocturnalwolf
Rating: 8.7
Date: Mar 30, 2006 8:40 pm PT
Review:  This is great game but i believe that they could've done better job. Yes the Graphics improved 
 and they changed game play a bit such like you don't have to run around get health to recover health 
 and there is always some one next you not like preview games in the series. But I too do feel that 
 COD: UO was best in series in a sense that it has lengtheir campaign and it just feels more comfortable 
 and on-line play is better. I hope they make COD2 expansion and make it better. COD series is the 
 best WW2 game out there for both Singe and Mutiplayer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BkbSR
Rating: 9.4
Date: Mar 30, 2006 3:25 am PT
Review:  I played Call of Duty for a long time (matter of fact up until about a month ago it was sill on 
 my system!) It was for a while my favorite game. I had watched Saving Private Ryan and short ly 
 after I bought COD. It was the first "combat" game I had played where the combat actually looked 
 real. When you see some one get shot, instead of just falling they grabbed the injured area, or 
 flailed around for a second, or if a grenade hit near them their bodies would actually fly up in 
 the air. The explosions would leave them deaf for a few seconds or leave a ringing in their ears... It 
 was just like in the movie. I had seen the expansion packs in the stores and was curious but I 
 was determined to hold out til COD 2 was released. I can honestly say IT WAS WORTH THE WAIT! The 
 graphics are better the sounds are better and the missions are just as intense as the in the first 
 game if not more so. A favorite part of the game for me, is when you shoot at an enemy with the 
 sniper rifle and hit them in the head their helmet flies off and instinctively they look around 
 to see where it went and then look back at you and POW! I'm glad I waited for this one. Also the 
 multi-player is awesome.... I had the chance to play on a Sniper server (only sniper rifles allowed) 
 and it was very interesting and fun 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fireworld2406
Rating: 6.5
Date: Mar 29, 2006 6:28 pm PT
Review:  I do not believe that this is as good as Call of Duty: United Offensive. You get more weapons and 
 more missions and better multiplayer in Call of Duty: United Offensive. I would suggest that you 
 check out the original Call of Duty as well as Call of Duty: United Offensive before making you 
 decision. Call of Duty 2 also has several advantages though such as Mission Select, not having 
 to scour huge places for health packs, and a very good training mission. I would seriously buy/rent 
 the first Call of Duty and Call of Duty: United Offensive first and then renting Call of Duty 2 
 to see which one is better in your opinion. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kramermyth88
Rating: 8.8
Date: Mar 29, 2006 5:18 pm PT
Review:  Call of Duty is a great first person shooter that takes place in WW2 because the fact that it can 
 deliver a great experence though the game's graphics and and very close accuracy to WW2. But what 
 really delivers the experience is the sound and the level design. For instance what makes the A. I. 
 very great is not only the fact of where they position them selfs and fight they challenge you 
 with but the fact that you can hear your allies yell out where they are by using spcefic areas 
 from where they are whether its "Krauts by the broken wall cut em down" to when a grenade is lobbed 
 next to you and they srceempotato masher run". so with all that said along with the great convincing 
 sounds of the weapons will bring you an experince like no onther.
  
  Now the down side but don't let this part keep you away from this game. The fact that this game 
 does give you that experience it doesn't offer any unique gameplay. It borrows the halo 2 health 
 and the quick grenade throw. this being said the game is nothing to be turly cheristed forever 
 because whether its like call of duty 3 later on it is able to outdo the experince. The multiplayer 
 i wasn't to attracked to the fact that its way to fast passed and it feels like WW2 arena comat. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gzaneski
Rating: 9.6
Date: Mar 29, 2006 2:37 pm PT
Review:  This game has to be THE BEST WW2 shooter yet! Keep it up Activision, you guys are amazing!!!! I 
 can't beleive Activision pulled us out of the boring Medal of Honor series to the revolutionary 
 Call of Duty (Brothers in Arms copied Call of Duty :P) . I give this game a 9.9/10 because there 
 are only a few weapon balance flaws, but overall.... WHOOT BABY! Whew, you gotta love the intense 
 squad action, and the almost scary multiplayer! I always have to keep my head down because annoying 
 snipers or noobs are always around the map which cuts into the gameplay for us serious gamers, 
 but hopefully there will be patches to keep us happy!!!! ;D 
::::::

::::::
UserName: undertaker335
Rating: 9.7
Date: Mar 29, 2006 12:20 pm PT
Review:  This is the best Historical First Person Shooter i ever played.
  Call of Duty 2 shows you how it is as a Soldier in the War.
  COD 2 is not like Medal of Honor 
 it is hundred times better.
  Realistic game with perfect smoke, water cool explosions and much more.
  The game includes Thompson, BAR, Trench 
 Gun, Kar98, Scoped Kar98,
  Grenades and other weapons.
  You can play as Russian, Britain and American.
  Its not a game it is History.
  
  Great Graphics, great 
 Sound and the historic moments are making COD 2
  one of the best FPS games ever.
  When you want to buy a FPS get your self Call of Duty 2.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: sschacha
Rating: 8.9
Date: Mar 28, 2006 8:03 pm PT
Review:  this game still becons me to the comp every time the World of Warcraft server is down. i love the 
 graphics and the teamwork the game has. the multiplayer rocks. and the AI in the game is awesome. 
 under its hardest difficulty i still cant beat it, it is one of the games that actually gives up 
 a challenge. now many people think of all the WWII shooters that come out now are all the same 
 blah blah blah, not this one. has ture life events, awsome epic battles and yes the good people 
 actually die. all in all it is an awesome game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Zaxex
Rating: 9.3
Date: Mar 27, 2006 1:55 am PT
Review:  Call of duty 2 is a first person shooter set in World War II as many have in the past. The game 
 has two basic modes, story and multiplayer. Surprisingly the game, once installed, doesnt need 
 the disk at all though it does take up a great deal of hard drive space.
  
  Throughout story mode you'll play missions as the allied forces, these being Britain, Russia and 
 America, each have a set of missions that can take around 10 hours to go through the lot. Call 
 of duty 2 sticks to the plot and doesn't drift too far from the war, in doing gives a realistic 
 experience.
  
  The graphics in Call of duty 2 are very good and it doesn't require a particularly high computer 
 to play it. There are some technical issues and the rendering can be slightly choppy at times, 
 though it does hold up well in furious fire-fights. The graphics in general aren't overly detailed 
 as they focus on the action mainly but nor are they simplistic, the small details such as bullet 
 holes, empty shells, smoke grenades and ruins are exceptionally well made and such small details 
 add to the game's overall appeal. There are a handful of scenarios which have fitting buildings 
 and unique methods will be needed for each. In some even the weather differs, such as the snow 
 in Russia or the barren desert in Tunisia.
  
  The gameplay in Call of duty 2 is exceptional and gives an excellent level of control. There are 
 around 35 weapons in the game, many are very similar and simply the other factions' versions of 
 the same gun. They control slightly differently depending on their weight, range, rapidity, reload 
 times and crosshairs. The moving throughout the game is simple without any complicated buttons, 
 the actions are made with a single button press, for example you can: Jump, crouch, crawl, throw 
 a grenade, run, shoot, climb and more with just one click. The action is fast and furious and exciting, 
 the gameplay in general is enough to make this game a must buy.
  
  The AI in the game is so-so, in story mode you'll sometimes have enemies doing stupid things, they 
 can still be challenging but they won't play with as much strategy as you might. The multi-player 
 however doesn't have such an issue as it's player vs player, this is perhaps even less realistic 
 but still holds up well. The intelligence of the enemies throughout the missions won't be too noticeably 
 poor, and it does have some quite surprisingly good strategies.
  
  The game isn't overly difficult and gives you a choice of difficulty, it'll take a short while 
 to get to grips with the controls for the first time first person shooter fans will feel right 
 at home however and will likely easily get stuck in. After perhaps 30 minutes to an hour you'll 
 easily know how to play and have likely mastered the basics. The multi-player will be more difficult 
 as some people have been playing the game for 100s of hours and won't go easy on you; it's the 
 sort of game that'll make you want to play 100s of hours as well.
  
  The game has two modes as Ive said, the story mode will last somewhere between 8 and 10 hours, 
 which is about average for games, in addition to this there is the multiplayer which has an unlimited 
 re-playability, it can occupy 100s of hours of gameplay and adds a great deal of value to the game. 
 The story mode can take over 50 hours to complete in every difficulty, and even once this is done 
 it can be played through again. As you need a high-speed internet connection to play this game 
 online some won't have it. I'd say it's still worth buying if you don't have online, but will loose 
 some value.
  
  The multi-player in the game contains the bulk of the package. There are several modes to play 
 with 100s of other players online at any time. The game contains the classic capture the flag, 
 death match and team death match as seen in previous games time and time again. As well as these 
 there are a few other modes such as Search and destroy (a sabotage game) Zombie (a modification 
 which turns the game to each time a zombie kills the person killed becomes a zombie and so on) . 
 Overall the multiplayer is great and can keep you playing for hours on end.
  
  The sounds throughout the game are fitting and realistic. The music in the background of the missions 
 is epic with the gun-fire and other effects sounding very realistic and adding to the game's appeal. 
 The overall effect of the sound is very good and just confirms the opinion that the game is realistic.
 
  
  Overall Call of duty 2 is an excellent game with great graphics, superb gameplay, vibrant scenarios, 
 an expansive multi-player and is the best WWII experience there is. It has a great epic feel and 
 the gameplay alone makes it a must buy for shooter fans and I completely recommend this game to 
 anyone with even the slightest interest.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: UnrealGwar
Rating: 8.8
Date: Mar 26, 2006 8:55 pm PT
Review:  Call of Duty 2 feels epic in scale and very immersive. I actually felt a sense of pride whenever 
 I would beat a level. It is also one of the most intense games that I have ever played. You will 
 often find yourself surrounded by Nazis and not only surprised, but grateful as well whenever you 
 escape a German attack. The multi-player part of the game is quite fun and adds some re-playability 
 to the game. However, the game does get a little dull after a while and you will find yourself 
 losing interest after playing the levels multiple times. This game is definitely wort playing. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: reignman
Rating: 9.3
Date: Mar 26, 2006 3:36 pm PT
Review:  This game is great. I never play games through a second time and i am on my Third time threw this 
 game. I am on my 1st time through veteran and the game is scary hard. 
  
  The gameplay is amazing. The AI is really good on both sides. There is a lot of differnet levels 
 and the mixing it up of the three countries is really good.
  
  Graphics are great, i have a 7800gt and i cranked up those graphics and just stand back and watch 
 the beauty in front of me. The smoke gernades are so real that you get lost in them some times 
 . 
  
  The sounds of the guns in this game are great. Turn it up and see if you can get the neighbors 
 to feel like they are really in a war. With you buddies yelling at you to get down and to coever 
 this and kill that you really fall into this game and forget where you are.
  
  The Multiplayer of this game is the best. There are some servers of 60 people.. thats right 60 
 people running around killing some fools. Just take my word for it the single player is great but 
 the multiplayer take s the prize.
  
  If your still reading thanks but you should already be at the store getting this game so i can 
 be shooting you in some multiplayer fun
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: dragonmaster989
Rating: 8.8
Date: Mar 26, 2006 7:48 am PT
Review:  If it werent for a few flaws, Call of Duty 2 could have been better than the original. Some of 
 the missions in CoD2 are just too boring, they start off great and are fascinating, but then they 
 descend into monotony. Also CoD2 was way too short; I finished this game after 5 days of play. 
 Call of Duty 2 looks great, but to run it on the highest settings, you need technology not made 
 yet for good framerates. Thats the problem; CoD2 is a hardware hog, meaning that you need a really 
 nice graphics card to get a decent framerate. Aside from this though, CoD2 is astonishing, this 
 is one of the BEST WWII FPSs. The shootouts in CoD2 are utterly intense, I cant tell you the 
 number of times I have been pinned down under machine gun fire and had to deal with soldiers throwing 
 grenades at me, forcing me to move. CoD2 grips you, the same soldiers follow you throughout your 
 missions, and you feel like they are really fighting there beside you. The AI is wonderful on both 
 sides, they attempt to flank you, use grenades to their advantage, and on your team they help you 
 clear rooms and buildings, call out positions of enemies, and provide cover fire. If you are looking 
 for intense FPS action, look no further than Call of Duty 2. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cdpaliden
Rating: 9.8
Date: Mar 25, 2006 8:20 pm PT
Review:  Whats this, a sequel that totally, in every department beat its predecessor? Burry CoD because 
 youll never want to play it again after you play CoD2. For CoD players (like myself,) the only 
 thing that youll find in common is the controls, the war and the compass. They totally revamped 
 the HUD, got rid of the old health-bar set up and made those Nazi S#^!$ smart! Now theyre real 
 opponents, ducking from fire, returning grenades and actually killing you (sometimes) .
  Again, you play as the Americans, the British and the Soviets. This time they take you to some 
 new places and a few old ones. 
  For the starting missions you play as the Soviets Given about 5mins of training then being put 
 into *real* combat! This starts outside Moscow and ends in Stalingrad.
  Next, the British 8th armored known as the desert rats storm across Africa towards Tunisia.
 
  Finally, the Americans hit the beaches as US Rangers at Point du Hoc in France to storm across 
 the Rhine river into Germany.
  This Game wouldve gotten a perfect 10 except every time you head into a dust cloud (even with 
 1GB of ram) the machine SLOWS DOWN! If this is the only bad thing I Can live with it! Keep it 
 up Activision! 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: jacobs_1
Rating: 9.7
Date: Mar 25, 2006 7:13 pm PT
Review:  The graphics of this game has truly increased, and I love it. In fact, I love it so much, that 
 me and my friends go to a local PC Gaming Cafe and play online for HOURS! THe owner knows me and 
 my friends as "The Death Squad" definetly a fitting name. But the thing I enjoyed most of the game 
 is how the blast fro mthe grenade leaves a mark on the ground. And the sound effects. The sound 
 of the M1 Garand emptying its last round sends shivers down my spine. That loud, sexy "PING!"
 
  
  The reason why its a step down is because theres no sprint, and no vehicles? NO VEHICLES!? WHATS 
 THE FUN IN THAT!? I loved driving around Foy in my Jeep and running over those poor saps that just 
 happened to be in my way. Its still fun, but I hope the next COD installment has everything from 
 United Offensive, COD 2 and MORE! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BigBoss028
Rating: 8.6
Date: Mar 25, 2006 6:54 pm PT
Review:  CoD 2 is just about the best WW2 shooter out there. I have never been a fan of WW2 games, I mean 
 after billions of games based on this on war, the games start getting a little played out, but 
 CoD2 is a different story.
  
  CoD2's got stunning graphics, indredible sound, great campaign. All of these emmerse you into the 
 war. Yet CoD2 has its draw back like the campign is to short, I just wish they would and some forces 
 to the Axis like Italy and Japan, and the server finder is clumsy making it difficult to find a 
 game, sometimes i would join a server the said there where players on it and when i got in no one 
 was there.
  
  Overall CoD2 is a great game and I would recommend it to anyone who enjoys WW2 game or to anyone 
 who is looking for a good shooter. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jdpunk
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 25, 2006 6:43 pm PT
Review:  This game is the most intense first person shooter you will ever play so far in the world. The 
 game first in Single Player gives you 3 campains to complete you first start off in the russian 
 campain blowing up buildings and sniping out the enemy, then you go to the scorching deserts on 
 the british sides and from there you drive tanks to give cordinates for bombs, and before you know 
 it your on the american side in playing the D-Day mission. Fourtunatly there are a lot of missions 
 for each campaign so it will take you a while to finish. DirectX9 graphics are just amazing, you 
 can get sun glare to seeing the weather like snow drop down and seeing soldiers breath when there 
 in the cold. Even if your video card isnt good enough and you have to play on DirectX7 its still 
 a amazing game! This game is deffintly a buyer and I reccomend it to everyone!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wolflegresley
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 25, 2006 11:13 am PT
Review:  Now I know what you must all be thinking, ANOTHER stupid ww2 shooter. But in fact.. if you were 
 to play any WW2 shooter this is the one that you should play, The best ww2 shooter since Day of 
 Defeat. The game offers an accurate historical lessons over 3 diffrent campaigns in which you play 
 3 diffrent armies. You get to drive around in a British tank for several levels giving you the 
 feel of what it must of been like to be a tank driver. This game brings in elemments from star 
 wars battlefront, and battlefield 2 in the 360 degree battlefield. The mission objectives are neat 
 as well is the storie and the commradishp you develop with your commanding officers. In essence, 
 If you were to own any wwII shooters. This is it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: redwarrior101
Rating: 9.6
Date: Mar 24, 2006 10:00 pm PT
Review:  If You like to play shooters then this is the game for you to buy. This game has great possibilities. 
 The Single player game has great goals that really test your skills. Some of the battlefields aren't 
 as real life as other game but it still is really fun and enjoyable. The multi player adds to the 
 game a whole lot. This game is one of the top played multi player games. The maps are not the biggest 
 but they are perfect for death matches and capture the flag. The mods that are out for Call of 
 Duty 2 really add things to the game that make the game more real life. The graphics are some of 
 the best graphics I have ever seen. But I definitely would recommend buying this game if you like 
 first person shooters. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: webchuzz
Rating: 8.2
Date: Mar 24, 2006 4:18 am PT
Review:  If you were looking so hard to find a really good game that would envolve the WWII, then here it 
 is! Call of Duty II offers you a great performance and outstanding graphics quality. It is very 
 reallist, as the missions that you accomplish are done in the place of some known soldiers (like 
 Vasili) .
  As you play, the sound of exploding bombs and the voices of your general are very reallist, making 
 the game even more real. This game is very exciting, as it is full of action, offering reallistic 
 moves: the weapon reloading, the ordering voices, the horizon sounds, the ambient, etc...
  The only disadvantage in this game is that it is a little smaller than te first Call of Duty. But 
 that doesn't mean that this game is not good. It's a game that you always like to play. With its 
 online gaming feature, Call of Duty II gets more fun and exciting, since you can play along with 
 people from the other side of the world. A great game, may I say. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mcphillipsl
Rating: 9.6
Date: Mar 24, 2006 2:02 am PT
Review:  This game has two sides. One is bad and the 2nd is simply great. Frist i will
  start on the bad note now i have had this game for about four mouths now
  but in the first 5 
 days i finish the game on hard now!!!! don't get me wrong 
  this is a great game. the graphics are great the way when something get's blow up is very good 
 and the shooting is quite good as well anyway it is much better then the old call of duty game's 
 anyway to some this game
  up i personal give this game a 10 OUT OF 10 i really enjoyed this game
  i hope you do to and 
 one more thing if you like fast war go to your local
  game store and get a  
::::::

::::::
UserName: thetruekilla69
Rating: 5.8
Date: Mar 23, 2006 8:24 pm PT
Review:  C. O. D. 2 was a step down from C. O. D. U. O. in gameplay because it took a lot of things out of the 
 game sutch as sprint and in multi player some realy good maps the graphics were kicked up but graphics 
 alone dont make a game i think an EXP to C. O. D. 2 should be put out replaceing the things that 
 were good ideas left out of C O D 2 from C O D U O it would make the game a mutch better and funner 
 exp. and the gametime was a let down it dident even take me most of 1 day to beat it and im not 
 the best at shooters.... im good but not the best this game is sompthing u should rent and ull 
 beat it and get bored of it enless u wana play online and dont mind the little let downs of unused 
 things from the exp to cod 1 -Shane- 
::::::

::::::
UserName: deadzombiesoldi
Rating: 9.4
Date: Mar 23, 2006 6:02 am PT
Review:  This game has to be the very best COD game that I have ever played, and I have played all of them 
 including the console versions.
  
  Look at the graphics for starters, the smoke effects are masterfully done down to the the tee. 
 Once you pop smoke, the entire area is surrrounded in a thick, choking cloud that is really intense 
 when you are running into the smoke anticipating whether or not the enemy will be waiting on you 
 to emerge.
  Also the the surroundings of the game and weather effects are also well done from the blazing heat 
 in Tunisa to the blistering bitter cold while in Stalingrad to the dreary rain in the British and 
 American campaigns.
  
  Audio is top notch even if you do not own 5.1 surrround sound. From guns blazing in every direction, 
 to the rumble of tanks battling each other.
  
  Gameplay is really really immersive and captivating. Once I poped the dvd into my machine, I could 
 not put the game down.
  
  Once you are done with the single player, the mulitplayer will open up worlds more of fun and excitement 
 from death match, team death match, capture the flag, and search and destroy to name a few.
  
  This game gets an A in my book, not an A+ though.
  
  We have the languages spot on from 
 every country except Russia. Why does the Russians speak in broken English? Why cant they speak 
 in their native tongues? I mean the Germans speak German, Americans speak English, and the British 
 speak in ther proper English, but not the Russians.
  
  Also, where is the sprinting? They have mods for sprinting in the mulitplayer now, but no sprinting 
 in single player? Cookable nades? They too are also missing from the game.
  
  My final little tiny fault is, no tanks or jeeps to drive? This little issue really isnt a bother 
 to me, but a bunch of people have complained about not being able to drive anything in the game.
 
  
  These little issues should not deter anyone from buying this game though, this game is a must have 
 for anyone's pc collection.
  
  COD 3 cannot come any sooner. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Moto19
Rating: 8.8
Date: Mar 21, 2006 11:18 pm PT
Review:  Call of Duty 2, PC Games, Shooters 
  
   
  
  
  
  REVIEWED
 
  Throughout Video gaming history there have been many games set in World War IIsuch as Medal of 
 Honor and Brothers in Arms, but none of them have come close tothe realism and intense action that 
 the Call of Duty series delivers perfectly. The course of the game you play as the British, American 
 and Russian who all of them set in diffrent parts of the European theatre of World War II.
  I played through the game with ease but I think the developers wanted you to play this on Veteran (highest 
 difficulty) in order to feel the full affect of being in battle against German soldiers who will 
 stop at nothing to make sure you're dead. A strong point in this game is it's graphics. they're 
 are amazing but sadly it requires a high end PC to run this game on all high settings. But not 
 just the graphics are good also the audio how you can hear each bullet whizzing past your head 
 or hearing a Grenade hit the groun near you, or even the music that plays during those dramatic 
 moments that give you the dramatic feeling during the game.
  This game besides the graphics and realism lacks something else but barely takes effect on game 
 itself but would've been nice to have, and this is, Ragdoll physics. It's annoying to see when 
 you kill a German soldier his body falls and is somehow stuck in the wall, you will see this from 
 alot of dead corpses both enemy and friend and I think this is where Ragdolls would of fitted in 
 nicely.
  Another low point is the sqaud system, and no i'm not talking about a Brothers in Arms style sqaud 
 system. Through out the game you're followed by a sqaud of soldiers who are usually replaced by 
 someone else if killed and also a few key figures who stick out from the crowd (Cpt. Price, Sgt 
 Randall, Pvt McGregor) . The thing that got to me was that they would stick behind and wait behind 
 walls while you rush ahead and they still stick to the wall while you're rushing a building possibly 
 filled with German paratroopers. Key figures like Sgt. Randall will stick with you the entire game
 
  
  So in conclusion here are the Highs and Lows of Call of Duty 2
  
  Highs
  
  -Intense battles
  
  -Great graphics
  
  -Good Audio
  
  Lows
  
  -Great graphics require 
 High End PC
  
  -Sqaud AI is a bit dumb at times
  
  I would recommend this game to anyone who enjoys FPS shooters, World War II oriented video games 
 or just having fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: penguinwarrior3
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 21, 2006 4:31 pm PT
Review:  This is a great game that you will sit in front of the computer for hours and have tons of fun. 
 The game has a rather short story mode, but a great multiplayer. The game lets you take on the 
 role of 3 soldiers durring world war 2. (you can also be german in multiplayer) . The single player 
 is really fun and has great missions from stalingrad, to africa, and then to europe. Each type 
 of soldier can use different weapons. The multiplayer is the real meaning of the game. It gives 
 you many different types of games like team deathmatch, capture the flag, and many more. It lets 
 you be four different types of soldiers and puts you in a wide variety of maps. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Saniusss
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 21, 2006 1:23 pm PT
Review:  Call of Duty 2 is a sequel to Infinity Ward's WWII First Person Shooter, Call of Duty. These guys 
 know how to make a good WWII game, and the call of duty 2 series shows this, and the sequal is 
 easily worth a $50 purchase, even with some of it's problems.
  
  The game starts you off in the Russian campaign as Private Vasili Ivanovich Koslov of the 13th 
 Guards Rifle Division. You start off with seeing you and your fellow comrades in training. You 
 are told to do simple things such as shoot targets, and throw potatoes (grenades) at certain targets. 
 It's not till shortly after that where you find out that the location is being ambushed by Germans, 
 and it all goes on from there. 
  
  The game features some great missions and epic moments, such as planes closing in and firing their 
 machine guns at you in alleyways, or the obvious mentioning of the landing of Normandy, and that's 
 just a taste of what's left in store for you.
  
  I don't think there's much going for the sound design, but this game really shines with EAX and 
 a loud pair of headphones. Every bullet flies past you with striking realism, and houses echo with 
 the sound of gunfire. 
  
  There's also the new AI system called the "Battle Chatter System". This makes for realistic, and 
 un-predictable responses from your fellow teammates and enemies. If there's an enemy behind a broken 
 wall, by the second story window at the third building to the left, your teammates will respond 
 accordingly and let you know where they are, which makes things alot easier. But the A. I is not 
 without it's faults, it can be rather annoying. I've had several moments where I will be trying 
 to snipe an enemy from afar, only to have my teammate move towards my crosshair right as I shoot, 
 causing me to teamkill him and lose the mission, or not firing at all.
  
  The games presentation is fabulous, as well. The smoke is realistic and stunning, fire and smoke 
 send of heat haze, and every character and detail in the world is filled with bump mapping and 
 specular mapping. But all this graphical power comes at a price, because, even with a beefy machine, 
 you won't be able to handle these effects with anything more then 20~30 FPS on average.
  
  While the single player campaign is well worth the full retail price, the multi player leaves something 
 to be desired. It has your usual old styled deathmatch, and team death match based modes, aswell 
 as capture the flag. One of the more interesting modes is "HQ" and "SD". "HQ" stands for Head Quarters, 
 and it requires each team to take over the other teams base, and hold it while defending their 
 base until the other enemies points run out. "SD" is Search and Destroy, where one team must defend 
 an objective, and one team has to destroy the objective, all while both teams are killing the opposing 
 force. The main problem with multiplayer is that it felt like it was thrown in at the last second. 
 There's no lag problems, but the game does suffer from not having any cheat protection, and it 
 just does not compare to today's top multi player FPS games like battlefield 2, and counter-strike 
 source.
  
  All in all, this is a good game. If you are looking for a worth-while WW2 game that does something 
 different, get this. But if not, look somewhere else. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HugoFromBoss
Rating: 7.8
Date: Mar 21, 2006 5:04 am PT
Review:  I'm a big fan of first person shooters, especially WWII based ones. But sometimes a game falls 
 far short of the hype and I fear that Call of Duty 2 is one those. I played and loved the original 
 Call of Duty and bought the sequel because of that. Except for better graphics & scripting, there 
 really aren't that many advances in game play to be found here. 
  
  Like its predecessor the in-game experience is more like a concentrated war flick than reality. 
 The game contains three distinct campaigns where you play as a Russian, British or US soldier. 
 The game itself borrows heavily from Saving Private Ryan, Band of Brothers and Enemy at the Gates. 
 If you've seen any of those then you know what to expect. Let's not beat around the bush here, 
 the Pointe Du Hoc level is such a blatant ripoff of Saving Private Ryan that it screams lawsuit. 
 Despite the ripoff clichs throughout, the production is very high. For each campaign you unlock 
 more levels as you progress. The graphics engine has obviously been overhauled and looks very nice. 
 Some levels are very well designed and the detail in the soldiers and levels is excellent. But 
 if you were expecting swaying trees, destructive scenery, doors that you can kick open, foot prints, 
 gravity or anything else  forget it. The scenery is basically a maze to hem you into the level. 
 Aside from scripted effects, and weapon pockmarks, your ability to interact with it is zero. 
 
  So the game is a lot more graphically advanced than its predecessor, but the feel of the game 
 is virtually the same. Each level consists of a series of objectives which you must complete in 
 order to finish it. While reaching for the objective, scripted events such as bombs go off around 
 you, soldiers shout, and you hide behind walls fighting a machine gun nest or some other obstacle. 
 Your fellow soldiers are pretty dumb although they do kill some enemy for you. The enemy themselves 
 also suffer from spawn-itis, appearing from nowhere (often infinitely) until you overcome them. 
 Once you do, you advance, trigger the next wave and repeat. 
  Some levels are extremely intense and well designed, others are boring invisible rail shooters. 
 The best levels are those that open up a bit with several paths to the same objective, or where 
 you must defend some position. But there are far too many levels where you plod from one crate 
 to the next along a preset route. One Russian level actually has a visible rail - you must run 
 the length of a field telephone cable which bizarrely goes down tunnels, over buildings and straight 
 through numerous enemy emplacements en route! I wonder if the dev team put that in as a joke. You 
 certainly won't be in any doubt where you are meant to go. 
  Multiplayer mode is actually distinct and IHMO much better than the single player game. I question 
 if anyone used to Enemy Territory, America's Army or H&D2 would think that much of it but it is 
 very well executed. I also witnessed some suspiciously accurate players through the player cam. 
 No one is that good unless they are cheating. Perhaps they were since the game has no obvious cheat 
 protection (e. g. Punkbuster) . 
  Some other points about the game. It's very short and it won't take you more than 8 hours to finish 
 it. Such an inadequate length screams expansion pack, but I won't be biting. The game also has 
 some insidious bugs. There were a number of occasions where the script stuck midway or the save 
 point never fired so that you couldn't advance or if you did you just died and kept on doing so 
 forever. The only solution was to restart the level from scratch to fix the issue. Finally, why 
 is there no German campaign? It's absurd to not include one even for reasons of political correctness. 
 
  So to wrap up. If you like arcade style WWII games with nice graphics where you don't mind walking 
 the invisible line then you might like Call of Duty 2. For others, this game will feel old-fashioned 
 despite its graphics. There is little strategy here, no depth. You point, shoot, move forward and 
 repeat.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: haugeng
Rating: 9.3
Date: Mar 21, 2006 2:29 am PT
Review:  If you have played the first of the Call Of Duty, you would find many of the good points returning 
 in this installment. COD 2 continues to live up to the good name of COD.
  
  From the start, it provides you that great part-of-a-team single-player first-person-shooter experience. 
 You would be unlikely to ever feel lonely or claustrophobic in this game. You fight as part of 
 a larger group, and with the introduction of multiple objectives, you get to roam freely in the 
 huge map from objective to objective, having total control of which one to tackle first. And the 
 rest of your teammates will follow you to provide support.
  
  Technical details are still good. The games looks and sounds fantastic as a whole. Frame rates 
 are consistently good throughout the game, although I did experience slow frame rates during heavy 
 firefights with lots of smoke.
  
  The new auto health recovery system (think Halo) does give the game a new twist. I would not say 
 it's better or worse, just different. Depending on your personal preference, you will have a different 
 opinion on it. However it does not make the game any more unrealistic. After all, how realistic 
 is picking up health packs in war?
  
  The reason I rate COD2 slightly lower than COD1 (rated 9.7) , was that the storyline was not as 
 immersive as COD1. A lot of time, I feel, was devoted to the development of providing players with 
 more free will and planning attacking strategies, and as such, the storyline was not as strong 
 and does not really compel players to complete the game.
  
  Well AI remains quite unrealistic at high difficulty levels, that they focus on you more than your 
 other teammates, that they seem to enjoy firing at you even though they have better targets. You 
 would find your experience with the AI somewhat similar to that of COD1.
  
  So all in all, still a great game, and a must have for Call of Duty fans. And it is one of the 
 better WWII shooters out there, so a game for FPS fans too. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: adijan
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 20, 2006 4:27 pm PT
Review:  Witht he new release of Call of Duty 2 , activision has created a unique and extremely well done 
 sequel to Call of duty. Here now there are new weapons, and new mission to fight for america. The 
 strong cutscenes and strong and emotional war zone era places you closer then brothers in arms. 
 Here you get new allies (men) and new commands to do as you fight for your country to help rid the 
 world of terror and restore freedomt he the world. The new style of gameplay adds you to a whole 
 new experience of the meaning HELL, by this i mean you going through a hard time and seeing what 
 horrors this sage of violence has inflicted on our war veterans. Close as you can get to world 
 war 2 (ww2) which is very well done and the sound is terrific, graphics are splended. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Xlaten
Rating: 8.7
Date: Mar 19, 2006 10:53 pm PT
Review:  I have played many action-war games, too many to list and non of them were even that great so I 
 have forgotten their titles. But I can be certain this title will be etched in my mind for years 
 to come.
  
  This game pits you against the nazi war machine throughout WWII, you fight as the Russians, British, 
 and American forces. If you don't know alot about WWII this game may teach you a thing or too. 
 Before each mission you will get a short briefing on the history of your specific mission.
  
  The gameplay in this isn't that spectacular, alot of stop/aim/shoot/repeat with an occasional 
 grenade chucked at your head.
  
  The graphics in this game are great, not very revolutionary or next gen but definetly good for 
 its time. The character models look exceptionally good.
  
  As for the sound well its the best sounding game to come in awhile! I hope that makes sense... 
 There is alot of atmosperic sounds you can hear alot of gunfire that sounds like its coming from 
 miles and miles away. Your comrades all around you will be barking commands and writhing in pain 
 as they are hit by incoming fire. You really feel like your in a warzone!
  
  This game has its low point though, its really short and has little replay value, I played around 
 with the multiplayer but its nothing special.
  
  If your looking for a exceptionally good WWII game I would check this out, but I would reccomend 
 renting this or borrowing from a friend because after you beat it once I doubt you will be spending 
 much more time on this.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: wizoforb
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 19, 2006 7:24 pm PT
Review:  The way this game feels can not, and will not be matched by any other game! The COD series thus 
 far has always had the fast paced in depth action. That's what made COD the best of it's kind. 
 The graphics are superb with the right rig, and the sound effects, and visuals are stunning. They 
 put a lot of work in this one! The common argument is that the game was short. I agree with that. 
 Before I knew it the game was over. I was just starting to get into it. I suggest playing easy, 
 or medium first then trying Veteran. Don't bother with MOH. (especially Pacific Assault) . I mean 
 I have the MOH series, but going from MOH to COD was like a (Once you COD you'll never go back) . 
 This is a must buy for any FPS person! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: akshayasok
Rating: 8.8
Date: Mar 19, 2006 4:12 pm PT
Review:  Call Of Duty Was Certainly One Of The Best Shooters Of Its Tiem And Certainly Improved The Gameplay 
 Of WWII Shooters To an Extent But Sadly The Gameplay Of Call OF Duty Only lasted For bout 10 hrs 
 NAd Tats Sadly Also The Case Of Its Successor . 
  
  COD2 IS A Very Immersive AND Engaging SHooting With Lots Of Tense Moments But Like They Say Good 
 THings Never Last . Although It Only lasts For 10 Hours It WIll Leave A Great Memory And Certainly 
 MAke U Fell That U Ddin't waste Ur Money Which the Multiplayer Makes Up
  
  The Graphics In COD2 IS Smooth And Immersive It Wll Even Work In Older Systems With Reference Which 
 Was Really A Good Idea By Infinity Ward. The Graphics Are Perfect And The Huge Battlefields U WIll 
 Be Fighting Makes U Fell Like Ur A Part Of larger War Which Is Really The Advantage Here
  
  The SOund Here is Outstanding . Thats ALl I Can Say Aboout cuz it has been payed a lot of attention 
 just like its predeccesor 
  
  Well I AM Not Gonna Make This Long And I Would Close With The Concluding Thoughts That It IS Certainly 
 One Of The Best Shooters Out There And that U WIll Certainly Enjoy he Short But Sweet Experience 
 No Matter WHoever You Are
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: SadExchange
Rating: 8.9
Date: Mar 19, 2006 1:09 pm PT
Review:  You would think with all the first person shooters based during World War II, that another one 
 coming out on October 25th of 2005 would be a little too much for gamers, but Infinity Ward proves 
 us wrong. Using the same technique from the previous game, theyve put together a wonderful, intense 
 presentation where the player will be hooked from beginning till the end. Without a doubt, this 
 is one of the most intense first person shooters set in the time of World War II yet.
  
  The story, like any other World War II shooter is pretty much the same, but Infinity Ward tends 
 to make the experience a little more dramatic then other games. You, the player, will progress 
 through three different campaigns much like the first game consisting of the Americans, the British, 
 and the oppressed Russians. Youll play a different soldier in each of these armies using the different 
 weapons of each nation while you plow your way past the German lines. Unlike the first game though, 
 youll have a little more choice in which campaign you would like to play, but only to a certain 
 point. As you progress through one of the campaigns, youll be given the option to begin a different 
 campaign. This may not seem like a huge benefit, but it certainly mixes up the gameplay somewhat 
 if youre stuck on a level and youre just tired of the scenery. Chances are you wont get bored 
 with the different levels, because of the intensity involved and the decent artificial intelligence 
 of the enemy, but Infinity Ward just wanted to give the player the option to switch it up a little. 
 
  
  The levels themselves are different from the previous game, but some of the main historical situations 
 do arise again, but only because they provide such a realism to the games environment and atmosphere. 
 The level design of each individual mission is unique enough to keep the player interested throughout 
 the three different campaigns and the different non-player characters that youll interact with 
 throughout the storyline add a little to the gameplay as you progress through missions. Although 
 there are three different campaigns with over twenty-five missions, Call of Duty 2 suffers from 
 the same setback that its prequel did. The length of the single player campaign. Veteran Call of 
 duty players who are used to the intensity of the game will probably be able to beat this game 
 in around ten hours, while those new to the series will take a little bit longer, but the intensity 
 that infinity War procures throughout the overall game can be a double-edged sword because as the 
 intensity increases, the players want to progress through the levels does also and this wanting 
 to see more can tend to make the game become shorter each time you play through.
  
  The players health was done a little bit differently this time around, with Infinity Ward taking 
 out all health packs that could be collected during the missions. Instead, they took a sort of 
 Halo approach where if youre getting hit multiple times, youre view in-game with pitch back 
 and forth and become blurry giving you fair warning to find cover or else die, but as soon as you 
 find protection, youll rejuvenate back to normal and be able to take another full round of bullets. 
 Although it doesnt have the shields that Halo 1 and 2 did, youll easily be able to tell when 
 youre about to die. Many fans are upset by this idea of player health in the game because in the 
 past Call of Duty strived to be a realistic game, but with the inclusion of this new health system, 
 it only seems like Infinity Ward is regressing from reality.
  
  The graphics within the game are definitely a step up from the original game. Different effects 
 within the game including smoke look absolutely wonderful and each and every mission looks spectacular. 
 The developers and artists took quite a bit of time with giving the player a different and unique 
 experience with the levels throughout the game and with the better graphics engine, they were able 
 to take the dramatic situations that transpire during the campaigns and intensify them even more 
 with the impressive graphics engine. Different from the first game, when youre character is repeatedly 
 shot, the screen will flex and become red around the edges, giving you the awkward visual of actually 
 being shot. Little touches like this truly add a lot to the gameplay. The different non-player 
 characters that you meet throughout the storyline will have facial expressions and detailed appearances 
 that will look great on good computer. There has been some troubles with the game engine though 
 with different computers though. Some who have computers which easily surpass the recommended requirements, 
 have complained of the game chugging during gameplay. Normally I wouldnt mention this if it 
 were an isolated experience, but there have been quite a few players who have complained about 
 this problem. This would probably have something dealing with the optimization of the actual game 
 engine, which the developers can probably fix with a patch or two, but well have to wait and see.
 
  
  The musical score during your twenty-five plus levels is done extremely well. I would have to say 
 that its probably the best part of the game. Where ever you are, no matter what level, beginning 
 or end, the music adds an extreme amount of atmosphere to the gameplay. And the sound effects in 
 the game are great themselves. As youre hunched down behind a bunker, youll hear bullets flying 
 by ricocheting off bricks and metal behind you. The screams and shouts of your fellow soldiers 
 behind you will only add to the gameplay telling you to flank the enemy or hole up inside a bunker 
 as they try to fend off the ragged Germans. The voice acting of your different commanders and generals 
 are well done and directions given to you before and congratulations after each mission adds quite 
 a bit to your overall game.
  
  The game, like the first, has a good multiplayer where you and your friends can get together and 
 compete either against each other or others online. There is one drawback though and thats the 
 lack of cheater protection for online gameplay. The lack of punkbuster included in the installment 
 really gives online players a little grief when they try to have a good honest game. Numerous petitions 
 and community members have stepped forward to try to get some kind of patch from Infinity Ward 
 not only for some minor gameplay bugs, but also some anti-cheat programs for online gameplay, but 
 nothing more than a, Were working on it, has been replied back yet and its been since release 
 in October of 2005. 
  
  In the end, if you enjoyed the intensity of the original game, Call of Duty 2 can do nothing but 
 exceed your expectations. With the wonderful musical score, the decent voice acting and intensive 
 gameplay, Call of Duty 2 brings together a realistic presentation of the times during World War 
 II. A few bugs here, and the lack of anti-cheat for multiplayer dont truly hinder players too 
 dramatically, but are yet to be patched by the developers. Overall, Call of Duty 2 is a worthy 
 sequel to a great game and should be played by any fan of either first person shooters or of the 
 historical nature of World War II.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Trigger_of_SUI
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 19, 2006 8:40 am PT
Review:  Very impressive game. COD 2 takes you back to WW ll and experience the heat of battle. Taking on 
 Germans, Russians, Brits, and the US in numerous battle fields. when you fight your way through 
 enemy lines, you feel like you are apart of the game itself.
  
  With a well balance gameplay and easy to learn controls, will put you in ahh... The graphic's is 
 a step up from the first COD. Multiplayer is the most fun taking you on with others around the 
 world. try out the CTF, Deathmatch, and Headquarters. with will knock you socks off!!! 
  
  The only thing the game is missing is more inter active weapons and in game commons. Such as aircrafts 
 and flank guns ex.. On this game, you only have a few tank missions and armored jeeps. I would 
 of like to take my own platoon and give them orders, instead of just following the leader. Other 
 than that its a game to own! 
  
  This is a must have game for the war and first person shooters fans across the nation. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mouzz
Rating: 9.1
Date: Mar 19, 2006 3:53 am PT
Review:  The original Call of Duty took the WWII FPS genre into another level with its cinematic settings, 
 its amazing action and its great visuals, so for its sequel the developers took this formula and 
 simply made it better in almost every way.
  The action in CoD2 is divided into three major campaigns American, British and Russian that takes 
 place in some location similar to the first game but not quite the same (some of the Russian and 
 American missions) and others completely new like north Africa in the British campaign, which is 
 nice change between the green villages of France and the ice cold Russian cities.
  The actual action in the game is still chaotic as ever, and now it has been improved as well with 
 better friendly and enemy AI, so now the enemies will not stand around wait for you shoot them 
 in the face, and thanks to the games amazing set-piece they [enemies\Nazis] will counter maneuver 
 you, plus the addition of the excellent smoke grenades.
  Also Infinity Ward gives a sense of faux non-linearity to the game by giving you choices (although 
 limited) in deciding what mission to go on next, which is a nice touch that slightly improves the 
 whole experience.
  CoD2 has few mistakes that doesnt really kill the experience like that the pointless tank missions 
 that feels like been add so the game would appeal to xbox360 owners, the lack of anything that 
 resemble a story (but for CoD who really cares?) , and the new health system that basically makes 
 the challenge disappear for anyone playing with a difficulty lower than normal.
  But all-in-all this is the Call of Duty sequel that were all been waiting for, even with some 
 of its mistake CoD2 delivered us with best WWII experience to date, beating all the competition 
 with ease.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cordata
Rating: 3
Date: Mar 18, 2006 8:05 pm PT
Review:  It's rare for me to get overly bored with a first person shooter, but after a few missions it was 
 time to uninstall this POS and dump it on someone else. Strangely enough, when I tried to uninstall 
 the game, it spent 5 minutes verifying my installation. Who cares if it's installed right, I was 
 UNINSTALLING it.
  
  The graphics looked nice, but the gameplay itself was dull and boring. After a while, I was looking 
 for new ways to kill myself. There isn't much of a challange to point the gun and never miss. I'm 
 guessing this is what the majority of the console type games have become. Specifically that you 
 don't seem to need any skill to play the game, or it's been dumbed down enough to the point that 
 anyone can play it starting from minute one.
  
  To me anything spent on this one is a waste of perfectly good money. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Wesker16
Rating: 9.8
Date: Mar 18, 2006 8:00 am PT
Review:  This is the best war game in world war 2 in the 1940s because the Levels are bigger, more imposing 
 and longer. Often, parts of a map get recycled as the players side finds that roles have reversed 
 from an influx of enemy reinforcements, or perhaps the Germans were driven back. The levels are 
 no longer quite as linear for the most part, and some are almost entirely non-linear. In many situations, 
 like approaches to a machinegun nest or tank, the player is offered more than one approach to the 
 target. Of course, this doesnt hold a candle to the levels where youre told to seize half a dozen 
 or more objectives located at various points in the map. Theres no particular order given, though 
 they are numbered, but there is some strategy in how to capture them. Often, its a great deal 
 more difficult capturing one point without first owning another, especially in situations that 
 create a crossfire. The enemy wont recapture your objectives but they will occupy the buildings 
 around them as well, creating buffer zones for their own protection 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Smallone85
Rating: 8.7
Date: Mar 16, 2006 4:26 pm PT
Review:  Some people complain that the World War II setting has been over used in First Person Shooters, 
 those people would be right but that does not mean that anyone should dismiss CoD2 as just another 
 WW2 clone. CoD is still one of the corner stones of any good FPS player and should be in most any 
 PC fans collection.
  
  The game does however have some flaws. Again the single player game is short and can easily be 
 completed with a few hours of effort. Most seasoned players should be able to beat the game in 
 an afternoon gaming session. The enemies also have not gotten terribly clever and have not applied 
 realistic battle tactics. However this may be a good thing for people playing on harder difficulties 
 because if the enemies have not figured out how to effectively lay cover fire and how to leap frog 
 then you can bet your teammates haven't either.
  
  While the game is a solid piece of work the inclusion of some squad based tactics would be admirable 
 and make the gameplay more enjoyable, your going to end up being a one man army in this game.
 
  
  However the multiplayer is again solid like it was in CoD1 and offers a very fast paced and chaotic 
 landscape to maim and murder strangers and friends online. This game is almost completely worth 
 it for the online experience
  
  If you can only afford one WW2 FPS check out Brothers in Arms and see if that doesn't wet your 
 appetite for Nazi killing action. Pretty good Infinity Ward, not great but pretty good. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Simins4
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 14, 2006 8:25 pm PT
Review:  Call of duty 2 is a grate game, With grate graphics, And Amasing sound qality. Just put on some 
 hedfons and craink up the sound, And you will be diving from grinaids in no time. Also the game 
 is pritty drumatic. Also, dificlty ranges from "that was easy" to "JESUS F---ING CRIST!!! WHY WONT 
 THEY JUST F---ING DIE!!! DIE! DIE! JUST F---ING DIE!!!", But if you have plaid the originl Call 
 of Duty, You alredy know all of this, Actuly, i would sugjest the originl COD for multiplaer, Becase 
 one of the big problems in this game, is that the multiplaer, well, isint as good. No mashene guns 
 or tainks whatsoever. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Feyre
Rating: 9.2
Date: Mar 19, 2006 4:55 pm PT
Review:  If you have to describe Call of Duty 2 in one word, the word that immediately springs to mind is 
 "immersive". The only thing that will keep you shouting out from "yes sir!" to you computer when 
 told to blow up that tank is the fact that you're biting on your lips.
  
  Gameplay: Probably the best part of the game. One of the first things you'll notice in the game 
 is that there is no healthbar, when you recieve damage you have to withdraw behind cover to regain 
 your breath, much like the halo system. This is excellent as you can fight hours on end without 
 searching for healthpacks or wondering wether you'll still make it with your amount of health. 
 The game isn't that long on either of the two easy modes but I don't recommend using them, you 
 should play at least at hardened, good players at veteran. You'll die a lot but the game is ten 
 times better that way. There's no running and gunning involved, but battles that seem very realistic. 
 On veteran two bullets from a rifle might kill you, a direct hit from a grenade kills you at every 
 difficulty, so you'll be leaning around corners and taking cover a lot of time. But it never get's 
 boring, in fact there's so much to do, you can blow up tanks, fight in a tank, shoot down aircrafts, 
 man machine guns, retreat while fighting off overwhelming amounts of enemies. The game will keep 
 you immersed throughout the whole game, many times in a row. And completing the entire game in 
 veteran, now there's a fun and difficult challenge.
  
  The graphics are not as impressive as those of the other hit games of 2005 but somehow they take 
 a huge toll on your engine. For some reason I can run FEAR at higher settings than CoD2. But the 
 firefights are a visual spectactle none the less as you'll literally see the bullets flying around 
 your ears. The most impressive are the player characters.
  
  Another impressive feat of CoD2 is the amount of things the AI can say during combat. Both your 
 allies as your enemies will be asking for cover to reload, telling their teammates to take cover 
 or just shouting insults at their enemies. They also call eachother by their names, now there's 
 an achievement! This really puts you inside the game. (Did I mention Immersive yet?)
  
  Value: The game is a probably few bucks more than you're used to. But it's worth it! Especcialy 
 seing how much time you'll spend playing the game.
  
  Tilt: Time will fly by as never before, or as Homer (no not Simpson) said long ago: "Men will grow 
 tired of dancing, singing and making love sooner than war."
  
  All in all a superb game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: uchitha
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 13, 2006 12:03 pm PT
Review:  Its the best of its kind. The gameplay is totally different from what other FPS games offer. The 
 developers have done it to the best you can feel the difference. Comparing with any other war game 
 or World War games this one is the best without any doubt.
  
  Graphics are so cool some blast and the effects are superb. The best part is you get this special 
 feeling and you are not alone like most of the FPS. You get this team spirit. The sad thing about 
 this game is that its very easy and anyone who plays it properly can finish it in one day. But 
 the experience you get from this is incredible.
  
  I strongly suggest you play this game if you haven't coz you are missing one best game all time. 
 Rated 10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sniper0993
Rating: 9.3
Date: Mar 12, 2006 2:02 pm PT
Review:  From the first Call of Duty to Medal of Honor, its easy to say that this is the best WWII shooter 
 to ever exist. Right when you first step off that boat onto the beach, you enter a new world of 
 history. This game takes you deep into the history of WWII with military videos of what was really 
 filmed in the 1940's. Even after beating the game's campaign, its hard to not play it again. Its 
 fun knowing that your not all alone. You always have your squad mates with you. That puts a greater 
 responsibility on you though. You actually have to protect your squad mates. If they die, they're 
 not coming back. You may start out a level with 6 squad mates, and if you don't watch out for them, 
 you'll end the level with probably 1 left. The AI in this game is revolutionary. The enemies no 
 longer stay in one position to attack you. If you're suppressing fire on a small group of Nazis 
 trapped behind a sand bag wall, their teammates will flank you. They'll try to sneak around to 
 attack you from behind, throw grenades at you, or send in a sniper. These are very tricky enemies. 
 Your team members are the same. When they spot some enemies, they will yell to everyone where they 
 are. They won't just say "Enemies!". They'll yell out comments like "Enemies behind the sand bags!", 
 "Enemies entering south side of house!", and more. When you hear them yell those comments, you'll 
 actually see some team members moving positions to attack or hold off the enemies instead of pretending 
 to be deaf and dumb. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ObviousMan
Rating: 9.6
Date: Mar 11, 2006 7:32 pm PT
Review:  The origianal Call of Duty was my favorite game before every picking up a copy of Call of Duty 
 2. I had played the demo version of the game and was afraid that the game as a whole would not 
 live up to its predicesor, but I was wrong. Infinity Ward has surpassed the original Call of Duty 
 in every way.
  
  Starting with Gameplay, I gave it a 9/10. It would have been a perfect 10 if not for the poor performance 
 of the graphics engine even on high end systems. However this game is never boring. There is always 
 an objective to work toward and even though the game is fairly linear, it has a high replay value.
 
  
  Graphics also get a 9/10. It too would have recieved a 10 accept there are very, very few systems 
 out there who can experience the true beauty of this game because of the high system requirements.
 
  
  Sound gets a perfect 10, it is simply the best of any game... ever! Even with the cheap sound card 
 and speakers that I have this game imerses you into the world of WWII. Bullets are always passing 
 close by and the realistic dialog of the other soldiers around you makes everything so real.
  
  Value is a perfect 10. The single player game is great, and will last about 15 hours on normal 
 but the multiplayer is also great. Really, it is easy to get hooked.
  
  Overall 9.6 out of 10. What are you waiting for, buy this game now! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ghostmag
Rating: 8.7
Date: Mar 11, 2006 11:31 am PT
Review:  Call Of Duty 2 (COD2) is the last COD game, and it is a very good game. However there are a few 
 draw backs. In the game there are glitches that are extremely annoying during gameplay and they 
 take the fun out of the game when people use them. Also the vehicles you used to use in Call Of 
 Duty: United Offensive (CODUO) are no longer usable. The rest of the game is extremly good. Especially 
 when you have a Scoped Mosin Nagant in your hands, sniping across the map and get a head shot off 
 another sniper. The gameplay can get very intense and when it does, you have a good time. As time 
 goes by the game will get better when more patches come out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gunman357
Rating: 9.2
Date: Mar 10, 2006 5:31 pm PT
Review:  When the first Call of Duty came out, I knew it was gonna be a hit.
  The gameplay rocks, the story's accurate (WWII style) , and the graphics were AWESOME!!!!!!!!!
  
 
  But when the second one came out, I was immedietly excited to play it.....
  
  The gameplay did'nt change much, but a few changes a noticable.
  
  For instance, the way you 
 take damage is just like HALO 2, if you get shot to much, you'll start pulsing, and if you don't go 
 for cover soon, you'll die.
  
  Throwing grenades is easier cause it was shortcutted to a single button.
  
  The game itself 
 I found quite short, therefore sucking the value of it down a bit, but the multiplayer brings it 
 right back up!!!!!!
  
  This is a great game, muliplayer or single player.
  
  
  GO FOR IT!!!!!!!!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: q8hr
Rating: 8.8
Date: Mar 9, 2006 8:10 am PT
Review:  When I first played the Demo of this game I was quite suprised, most demo's of games usually suck 
 because you dont get the full experence. Once I played the demo I was amazing, the game made me 
 feel like I was in Europe fighting WW2. This review will talk about how this game is better than 
 CoD1, the graphics, and the online game play.
  
  When Call of Duty 1 was released on PC I was one of the first to get it here where I live, I liked 
 the gameplay aspect of it and felt like I was in an actual war. In call of Duty 1, You have a health 
 bar in which you loose health if you get shot, you can heal by getting health packs. In Call of 
 Duty 2 you dont have this health bar, now when you get shot your screen will show blood and if 
 you duck to cover and wait a few seconds you can heal up and go back into battle. I found this 
 aspect very amusing because now instead of me dieing everytime I try to finish a level I can heal 
 up by just going somewhere where there is no guns shooting at me. Also in Call of Duty 1 the computer 
 AI was not as well made as in Call of Duty 2. In Call of Duty 2 I felt that the computers knew 
 what they were doing, if I went up to the and was not shooting they would shoot, if I started to 
 shoot at them they would hide and throw grenades. In Call of Duty 1 the computer just stood and 
 shot at you and did not hide. That made the game feel non-realistic. 
  
  Call of duty 2 was made to run on a lot of systems, obviosly if you had a better system you would 
 run the game better. I am currently running on a 7800GT so the game looks stunning. The people 
 and the enviroment looks very realistic, it may not be the best looking game but I can tell you 
 it sure beats the 360 version of Call of Duty 2. The great addition in graphics in this game is 
 the smoke grenades, now when you throw a smoke grenade they actually help by making the area fogged 
 up by a really good looking grey smoke, in Call of Duty 1 smoke grenades did not do much. 
  
  Once your done the single player aspect of the game your going to want more, Actavision made 
 CoD2 online just like CoD1 was. You can go and play various types of online style games such as: 
 Deathmatch, Capture the flag, Team deathmath, etc. There are many players that play online and 
 you can choose to be British, German, or American. Each side has different guns, depending on which 
 side you are. Many people say the CoD1 online aspect was better than CoD2 but I personally played 
 both and say CoD2 online aspect was better because the shure amazment of the realism of the game. 
 
  
  There is not much I would really want to change about Call of Duty 2, I think it was a well made 
 game. If there was something I would like to change I would like Canada to be a side in the game, 
 even though Canada was not a fully independent country it was still fighting on the name "Canada" 
 in ww2. It deserves to be recognized as a country that contributed a lot to the war. Please feel 
 free to PM me on my Review if you have any concerns
  
  -q8hr AKA Slowmode 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nambybamby
Rating: 8.8
Date: Mar 8, 2006 8:02 pm PT
Review:  Great game, but nothing like the original Call of Duty.
  In this game all you do is walk around shooting some german troops. The russian campaign was disastrous. 
 But it got the training mission. After that, shooting germans all the way. I liked the pipe mission.
 
  British campaign is pretty, pretty what? The tank was improved, and looked more like Battlefield 
 1942 style. And yeah.......... same....... keep shooting up some german butt.
  American campaign, hmm, I am in the middle of it. The D-Dat part was realisticly excellent. Although 
 my computer is weak so it cannot have same experience as other players such as: shining graphics, 
 and some special effects. I think you will find United Offensive or Original more interesting, 
 but short. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: brianpoetzel
Rating: 8.9
Date: Mar 8, 2006 12:07 pm PT
Review:  This game grabs you and doesnt let go. The graphics are top notch. The gameplay is smooth and 
 intuitive. The AI is decent, not great but workable. The weapons are satisfying to use. When I 
 completed a level I really felt like I accomplished something. Its really immersive. I dont really 
 have anything bad to say about this game. I suppose Id like to see a few more weapons available. 
 And you can only carry two at a time. While that may be realistic it leaves a little to be desired 
 for me. 
  
  Ive heard that the multiplayer is great. I havent played online yet so I cant comment on that.
 
  
  This game is great and I recommend it to anyone that likes a good FPS game.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Icarus405
Rating: 8.9
Date: Mar 8, 2006 9:57 am PT
Review:  Call of Duty 2 is the sequel to one of the best World War 2 games of all time, Call of Duty, which 
 was released back in 2003. It also had a Expansion Pack by the name of United Offensive, which 
 i will compare COD 2 to later. But now, on to the review...
  Call of Duty 2 will surely appeal to those who have played it before, but the non existent story 
 will also be good for players who have not played COD before and are afraid to play a 2003 game 
 in 2006. However, as in the previous games, you will fight as a American, Britt and Russian in 
 this game, but in this game you start as a Russian, then play as a Britt and the American missions 
 are the last. There are 3 campaigns for each nation with a whole lot of missions, but instead of 
 3, the Britts have 4 campaigns, which might possibly be because in Call of Duty Finest Hour, the 
 British missions were over just when they got interesting.
  The Gameplay is as great as ever. Scripted scenes make for a realistic feel, and the brutal AI 
 makes it even better. There is nothing bad to say about the AI, if you fire at them, while someone 
 else is, they will know where you are after a few shots, they will hide and make you hide and once 
 you do, they try to flush you out with grenades. So if you find a nice tight spot to take a rest, 
 a Potato masher (German Stielhandgranate) is guaranteed to
  come for a visit. The grenades are easy to find though, since there is now a marker showing where 
 it is, but if you are careless and remain to close, it is instant death... A good thing now is 
 that there is no health bar. If you are shot a certain number of times (depending on the game difficulty) 
 your screen will go red and the character will start to breath heavily. If you get shot in this 
 state, you are dead, but if you hide and wait a few seconds, everything will be fine again. This 
 makes it easier to play on harder difficulty 
  modes, if you are already a good shot and know the Fire-Hide-Fire tactics well. The difficulties 
 are Easy (and it really is easy) , Regular (not so bad) , Hardened (hard at certain points) and Veteran 
 (Hardened mode with enemies who should all have higher class marksman badges) . The weapons are 
 still great, but there aren't really any new weapons this time, but who cares, the old ones will 
 do just fine. Weapon aiming is cooler now too, since when you turn, the weapon moves much more 
 freely in your hands than in COD, this doesn't give you the feel that your player is like a robot, 
 turning around his weapon with stone stiff hands. The weapons system is now easier, instead of 
 2 weapons a handgun and grenades you now have no inventory, 2 weapons and grenades are thrown at 
 the press of a button. Smoke grenades are also added and work like smoke grenades should. Dodging 
 MG42's is not as rare as in COD, so these will help at those times. A bad thing is that they have 
 forgotten about some of the weapons in the previous COD games (most of all, heavy MG's that can 
 be carried around) and you can no longer choose firing modes. There are also no plane missions 
 like in UO, but the 2 British tank missions are much more fun to play than in COD (probably because 
 in COD you had to save and load all the time, to not get hit, because you couldn't recharge your 
 tanks health. They have also made reloading very cool, since now while reloading, the camera will 
 bob a bit to make it feel like the character is looking at what he is doing. They have also added 
 a sniper steadying option (Hold Breath) , which, when holding the button down, will make the background 
 more quiet so that you will only hear your breathing and your heartbeat when the crosshair is steady 
 for a dead-eye shot. But even with all the problems, COD 2 is a worthy sequel...
  The Graphics are without doubt, a huge improvement. The game looks stunning on max graphics, but 
 to those of you who have less powerful PC's, fear not! The Developers of this game were nice enough 
 to add an option to switch from DirectX 9 settings to DirectX 7 settings, which will make the game 
 look and run as good as COD, the looks are actually even better, the animations are much more realistic 
 this time and the game feels more fresh too. I personally have a older GPU, so i played this game 
 on the maximum DirectX 7 settings and i enjoyed myself very much, the only missions in which you 
 will understand that the graphics are old this way, are the American missions, where the game really 
 does look old, but if you have a great PC, all the better... 
  The Sound is just flawless. All weapons have fresh sounds and everything from the environment to 
 tanks and enemy soldiers have sounds that make you feel like you are really in a World War. The 
 only problem is that the Russians still speak in English 90 % of the time and the acted British 
 accents will sometimes get you shot because you were too busy laughing instead of shooting. Another 
 great aspect is, that the soldiers now use their own words too (when a german throws a grenade, 
 your boys will yell: "Potato masher, get down!!!", etc...
  The Controls have surely improved, everything is much more easier to do now (throwing grenades, 
 switching weapons, etc) and you can even switch off the crosshair to make it feel like you are 
 really firing your gun from the hip and it makes shooting from the shoulder more important for 
 you.
  Although the single player part doesn't let you do much besides letting you choose the order you 
 complete some objectives in, the fun gameplay and excellent AI will still make you come back for 
 more and try harder difficulties. The Multiplayer is also good i have heard...
  Overall, Call of Duty 2 is disapointing but still a worthy sequel. Anyone who likes WW-2 games 
 and the Call of Duty series must try this game. This game also has a Demo, so if this review has 
 drawn your attention, try the demo and see what you think of this game. If you like World War II 
 games, you should also try Hidden and Dangerous 2 and Hidden and Dangerous II Sabre Squadron. Find 
 the reviews for those two games in my profile and demos for them on this site... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wallace_rok
Rating: 8.8
Date: Mar 8, 2006 7:16 am PT
Review:  Call of Duty 2 mostly emulates the successful mold of its predecessor. Two years later, though, 
 is more of the same enough to make a good game? To keep things fresh, Call of Duty 2 changes and 
 adds key features while still bringing to life the experience of playing a small part in the larger, 
 staggering conflict of World War II. It is a great game because it has taken every thing about 
 its predecessorgraphics, AI, level design, etc. and made them all a little better, but its ultimate 
 impact is reduced because it has been done before. All in all I would have to say this sequel to 
 the 2003 "Game of the Year," delivers an unparalleled portrayal of the chaos and cinematic intensity 
 of World War II through stunningly detailed graphics, advanced AI, realistic character animations 
 and explosive on-screen action - all powered by Infinity Ward's brand new proprietary engine
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ennt1
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 7, 2006 5:07 pm PT
Review:  This game was awsome. The guns the mens faces every thing was awsome. I liked how it did not start 
 on june 6,1944 as someothers do it actully started at 1940 and floowed through the being Russian, Britian, and 
 American. I liked how instead of going to normendy u went to a place called port du hoc and fought 
 there. The grapics in this game were gd just a tiny bit bad when you shot someone and they died 
 the could fall in a wall. the game was to short but it was still the best war game. If u hate this 
 game you are nuts this game is the best. When u aim down the scope of a sniper it shakes and that 
 is pretty cool. Also u were not justa private you were a seargent and a corperal. I thought were 
 was all the sky missions?
  I would like some of thoses. I hope in call of duty 3 they put air missions in it. But overall 
 it is one of the best war games. I can not wait to play 
  call of duty 3 and see wats different and better from call of duty 2. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: manofsecrets
Rating: 8.7
Date: Mar 7, 2006 3:57 pm PT
Review:  I thought it was a great game while it lasted, but i beat the single player in like 6 hours, and 
 then played online for a while, but I found I was quickly board with the multiplayer. The sound 
 is awesome, especially with an awesome sound system, graphics are also great, I don't have a top 
 of the line system, but I found the graphics great even at a lower level. Must buy if you like 
 shooters, recommended even if you don't. The lack of story line is made up for constant action 
 and great battle scenes around you. I give it a 8.7 out of 10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gigagamer2
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 7, 2006 11:08 am PT
Review:  This is a game with a heavy burden on its shoulders. CoD was a fantastic game in terms of multiplayer 
 and it was fun. CoD2 needed to be as good but i think Activision have cracked it.
  
  The Graphics are superb and it plays surprisingly well on my PC (Intel P4 2.8HT, 1GB Ram, 6600GT) . 
 it can get choppy but its not bad. The smoke effects are BEAUTIFUL and the whole scenery is fantastic
 
  
  This game is arcade style online which makes it fun but in single player you need to think about 
 tactics. The expert levels are nearly impossible (even when you hide) It has a lot of realism and 
 driving tanks is fun. The games controls are like any other FPS. The range of weapons is good with 
 some new additions from the last game. The thompson feels more solid and the PPSh has got new sounds 
 and fire rates. 
  
  Overall this game is an improvement over the original game with updated Graphics, Sounds, More 
 realism, harder and more dynamic gameplay and new weapons 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gmanr26
Rating: 9.3
Date: Mar 7, 2006 10:19 am PT
Review:  I got this game with very high expectations because I loved Call Of Duty 1, and can I say that 
 it doesn't let the fans down...
  Even though some may not like the health issue for this game, I mean that there is technically 
 no health bar/status, basically if u continually get hit u die, otherwise ur good. And some ppl 
 wont like the fact that the game is highly scripted, meaning that ur given a mission and there 
 is basically only 1 or 2 ways to complete it, and only one way to go. But even with those elements, 
 the game has the biggest factor that all games should have.... ITS FUN!!!!!
  Who ever knew that shooting down some enemies in the desert was so fun :P..
  So if you own a 
 PC that can run this game... what are you doing reading this far??? Get your ass up and go and 
 get this game, or your life will not feel complete. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Archrivel
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 7, 2006 8:50 am PT
Review:  CoD2, i found was simply breath taking, trying to be unbyest as I possibly can be. As I'm a fan 
 of the WWII genre. This game simply delievers.
  
  You enter the Arena of the battle and you feel like you've stepped into the the film Band of Brothers. 
 Everything is created just right to give you the player the emotional feel and drag of war and 
 battle. I just completed the D-day and the next mission on, and I feel drained. As If I actualy 
 faught the battle. 
  
  The game also teaches and does it's bit to respect the Rangers and those who, faught on that day. 
 In side this game on the British you have what seems like the Battle of the Buldge, The Russian 
 repairing the phone line, is lke from the War film about the Hero Russian Sniper even the detail 
 of how they got the snipers attention. The "sticky-bombs" and the Shell-shock effect classic saving 
 private Rynn. This game has the elemants of all 3 films and more. 
  
  For me the Graphics and the dust in particular is equally great. I can't fault the game at all. 
 Except for the 1 slightest potential problem. As people may not always read the letter before the 
 mission loads they may have no idea who their characters are. So when the AI calls out your name 
 you wouldn't know it. 
  
  Perfect absoulutly perfection. I recomend you turn up ur volumes play the game of 4 speakers and 
 experiance the Essence of war. Or at least part of it.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: n0s2004
Rating: 8.9
Date: Mar 16, 2006 10:36 am PT
Review:  When Call Of Duty was released in 2003 it was nominated for the FPS of the year & one of the best 
 WWII shooters of All time & it stood shoulder to shoulder with Medal Of Honor. So Call 0f Duty 2 
 isn't any exception it's true to it's predecessor & delivers in every respect.
  
  Graphically it's amazing & in a lot of way improves over the original, sound is just off the hook. Gameplay 
 is just as good. The only very little flaw is that the Single Player Campaign is a little bit short. The 
 American campaign is getting a bit old with similar type of missions seen in MOH Allied Assault, while 
 the Russian campaign is very impressive but short again. This time the British campaign takes the 
 crown by delivering one of the best & most intense & action packed battles every, The Battle Of 
 El Alamein is simply amazing.
  
  One of the interesting feature is that you no longer have a health bar, as u take damage your screen 
 will turn red which means your nearing your death. Stay covered or away from enemy fire will regenerate 
 you & you'll become good as new. Another thing is that the save anytime has been removed with a 
 checkpoint system which isn't problem since you regenerate your full health bar in 4-5 seconds.
 
  
  This game is an absolute must buy for FPS or WWII fans, the rest should play it as well & get ready 
 for an adrenaline rush like no other. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lanze
Rating: 8.9
Date: Mar 6, 2006 8:07 pm PT
Review:  This game was amazing simply amazing. The developers must of thought when they worked on it ;lets 
 take the original Call of Duty then times the intensity by 20. You are never without soldiers at 
 your side in this game it makes it feel like a real war. The soldiers of both sides shout out stuff 
 during battle which really adds to the feeling of battle. What's even more cool and useful is that 
 your soldiers will point out exactly where the enemies are. Instead of "GERMANS!!" they will say 
 something like "Germans in that window" or "Germans incoming south road". You can also hear the 
 germans shout stuff that sounds like they are strategizing realisticly too. The German ai is incredible 
 too they will retreat when things arn't going their way and always use cover. Your soldiers are 
 just as good at using cover too. Although alot of the stuff in this game is scripted, including 
 the entrence of many soldiers it is done very well. However my 2nd time through I could tell exactly 
 when soldiers would come, it became rather predictable. There is no health meter in the game anymore 
 instead when you are hit alot the screen will flash red and you will have to find cover until it 
 goes away. This adds to the intensity of battle, instead of running around looking for med kits 
 you can stay in battle. Another major addition to this game other than the major graphic update, 
 better AI, and more intense feel is the addition of smoke grenades. You can use these to take cover 
 under a cloud of smoke, it is great for advancing your position in combat but you have to be careful 
 where you use it because you could accidently conceal some germans and have a hard time finishing 
 them off. The sound is just as good as ever it really captures the sounds of battle, and with the 
 incredible musical score it's almost like jumping into a hollywood movie. The difficulty is actually 
 various it can be incredibly easy on the easiest difficulty, you are almost like a super soldier 
 who can take tons of bullets. On the hardest difficulty you die in only a hit or two which is incredibly 
 hard at first but it is the best way to experiance the game because you have to use your squad, 
 it makes it feel like a real battle. On top of the amazing single player you get the same type 
 of multiplayer as the old game. The only difference is their is a grenade indicator so grenades 
 are more used to clear people out then to kill them. This game is a must buy if you're a First 
 person shooter fan , don't miss out on it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ThieveryCo
Rating: 9.1
Date: Mar 6, 2006 5:46 am PT
Review:  Usually, I am not a huge fan of FPS, especially about WW2 which was exploited too much time in 
 video games just as in movies also. But this game, Call of Duty II is astonishing. 
  
  Graphics: environmental background beyond belief. The graphics just rules, and there is nothing 
 else to say about it. 
  
  Sounds: probably what I enjoy the most about this game. Don't be surprised to find yourself bent 
 on your chair while in the middle of an action scene on the front line, trying to avoid bullets. 
 I definitely suggest to anyone playing this game to put headphones on because everyone will want 
 to kill you at your place getting annoyed to hear all those rounds being shot, and also because 
 you'll get deeper into the action. Even a brother in arms yelling at you will make you jump from 
 you chair. 
  
  Gameplay: really user friendly and realistic. I mean, when you get shot, you don't loose energy 
 on a classic energy bar, and you can't use medic kit to restore your health. Instead, you start 
 to see blur just like being in the middle of a dense fog and to breath heavily. That is what I 
 call innovation and this is one of the many reasons why I enjoyed Call of Duty II in comparison 
 with other FPS.
  
  The single player campaign is kinda hard and challenging. Also, you'll be playing for the Russians, 
 the British and then the Americans. Too bad, no campaign under the Canadians troops when will 
 se see this? Just joking!
  
  Have fun playing this game. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: RebornJeremiah
Rating: 9.4
Date: Mar 5, 2006 9:35 pm PT
Review:  I never play COD series and I did have my doubt when I was going to pick up a copy in beginning 
 but this game is definitely the best war game I can find so far. I love how you don't "go to war" 
 on your own and how intense the battle can be. The graphic is amazing and you can even use the 
 direct x7 card to play and it still looks amazing. The game consists of 3 campaigns (Russian, British 
 and US) . Just like how most of the fps game, the story is pretty linear but some of the dialogues 
 in the campaign can be really funny sometimes. I can say that this game portray how the real war 
 and how chaotic it is. It is definitely one of the best war game so far. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mr_Monkdawg91
Rating: 9.3
Date: Mar 5, 2006 7:17 am PT
Review:  Call of Duty was freakin sweet. Infinity Ward used the same overall engine but upgraded the graphics 
 and sound.
  
  The gamesplay is so intense and you feel like your in ww2 battles. There are a lot [almost too much] ww2 
 shooters out there, but I have to say this might be the best. The shellshock effects from explosions 
 are back and better than ever. The guns are sweetness and realistic.
  
  The graphics are massively updated since CoD. They are great for PC standards and are the same on 
 the 360.
  
  The sound makes the gameplay even more intense. It sounds like they worked real hard to make it 
 sound authentic. Explosions and bullets whizzing by sound terrific.
  
  Overall, CoD2 is better than the first in almost every way, and definetely worth your dollar. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DeathSquad75
Rating: 9.8
Date: Mar 4, 2006 7:58 pm PT
Review:  I loved this game, not only because i am a true fan of FPS on the PC, but the graphics were impressive, 
 the AI is good, both for your men and the enemies. Personally it's almost different each time i've 
 played it. I would recommend starting on regular and then trying to beat the game on veteran after 
 you finish once. It is a real challenge. Even though you can hide and have your health return, 
 you die so quickly on veteran, that it still manages to maintain that sense of realism. also, it 
 lacks the magic water canteen like in many other games that magically heal you, but that is a good 
 thing to lack. this soundtrack and ambient sounds are great and immerse you into the game from 
 the first few minutes. sure, it's another reiteration of a WWII shooting game, but it's done right 
 and they have made it easy enough to beat to keep you playing but hard enough to challenge you 
 and make you want to beat the next level. well put together game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Colonel_Roy
Rating: 9.7
Date: Mar 4, 2006 5:12 am PT
Review:  When I originally picked up COD1 in April of last year, I was in a rut. Medal of Honor was starting 
 to diminish in its glory. I needed something new. And lo and behold, I find a copy of COD, and 
 my gameplay hasn't been the same since. 
  
  What COD2 does for me is simple. It improves the original in many ways.
  
  1. I no longer have 
 to switch to grenades to throw them. 
  
  2. I don't have to worry about Thompson spammers anymore because bashing is so much easier now.
 
  
  3. The scoped Lee-Enfield... Now that's a sniper rifle!
  
  Add these up, and this is why I like COD2. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GroundBomber
Rating: 9.6
Date: Mar 4, 2006 12:55 am PT
Review:  Ok, it's all started back in Call Of Duty that was released in 2003, before the release of COD1 
 Medal Of Honor Allied Assualt was one of the best WW2 FPS game, don't get me wrong MOH: AA were 
 very good game however it's not good as COD1. From the Cinematic Production to it's totally insane 
 Battles with lots of enemies you won't find yourself setting and getting boring while the game 
 tries to make it intersting, no Call Of Duty 2 toally even better then the first COD1, 3 Campigns 
 that connected to each other moreover it's really revive the history and it has the best connection 
 to the history from what i have seen started from the weapons M1A Caribne, Thompson, Tiger Tank, 
 Sheman Tanks, German Bombing Runs, Artilliry Barrage... it has very impressive gameplay but the 
 thing except the insane gameplay that i liked the most was the sentences of the leaders that were 
 there like P. D. Rooswelt, Churchill, Truman... it's authentic cinematic production impressed me.
 
  To Sun It Up if you really want to have a better look on how things turned on during WW2 from 
 the Dominations of Germany all over Europe from 1939-1942, to the day that things started to change 
 and Germany loss 1942-1945 and play a game that has way much to offer, up to date graphic, excellent 
 gameplay on Single player and multi player so GET call of duty 2, Soldier that is your duty!!!! 
 DISMISSED!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BigE_mustang
Rating: 9.3
Date: Mar 3, 2006 9:33 pm PT
Review:  This is a great game i have only played single player but its the best campaign ive played to date 
 and the sound in this game is rediculous its so amazing the graphics are pretty good too the overall 
 effects of this game will make u fall in love and they do a good job of throwing new situations 
 at you so it doesnt become repetitive ...... i hear multiplayer is fun as well so that would make 
 this game orgasmic but even if multiplayer sux the campaign is well worth your money they also 
 do a good job of being able to have it run on low end pc's with the settings down but also able 
 to run some great lookin (and especially sounding) stuff with a high end PC (like mine) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Alphawolf102
Rating: 8.8
Date: Mar 7, 2006 3:43 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay: it is your basic shotem up world war 2 game but redifines the gene of WWII games. Its 
 probably the best titles to get on the PC right now because it is a flat out shooter. The game 
 doesn't do a thing wrong but yet does improve the games sticks with if it aint broke dont fix approch 
 which works.
  
  Graphics: I truely think this is one of the best looking games that came out this year. The detail 
 on the soilders is just amazing. Unfoutenly you can not say that for the envoirment. But the graphics 
 won't win everybody over and the definenlty won't turn anyone away. Can run sloppy at times
  
  Sound: Pretty the sound is really truely amazing the sound of the BAR is like it is right beside 
 u
  
  A. I. : I felt the AI derserved it on spot only for me to say they are smart. they know where u 
 are and u must plan ur attack on bunker etc. They are hard and u will get mad.
  
  I still prefer the muti -player on the PC over the 360 version but this game is good and worth 
 $50 
::::::

::::::
UserName: titomag
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jun 20, 2006 12:45 am PT
Review:  I had played many WW2 game titles, most being First Person Shooters, but Call of Duty 2 has to 
 be the best so far. Its hard to say if there is anything so bad about this game.... i find it amazing! 
 The battles are crazy, its like your in a real war, with your ally soilders helping out anf having 
 to take cover from more than 10 nazis on screen, heck... probably more. One thing i liked about 
 this game is that your not a 1 man army like the Medal of Honor games, who the hell goes to a war 
 alone?? Anyway, the enemy and ally AI is good enough to really make the game challenging. 
  
  Enemies will throw grenades, take cover and do other things just to survive, your allies will 
 do the same also. The graphics in this game is breath taking, its visuals and detail is incredible. 
 Even if you cant play the Direct X9 setting.... its ok, the DX7 setting looks good enough and its 
 great fun. The musical score fits well with the game, and the sounds is loud and clear, especially 
 the 3D sound effects when going in a cave or bunkers. 
  
  You are mostly in foot in this game, but you can use a Tank in a certain level. The gameplay may 
 not be much but the MP will bring you back for more. There is something new about this game, you 
 dont have a health bar... your life deplenishes when you are shot repeatedly and you will start 
 to see a red ring around the screen indicating to take cover ( wich is like recovering your health) 
 Sometimes it can suck for MP tho. I know this game is run, cover and shoot, but its alot of fun, 
 I am sure this game is the best WW2 game out now! overall this game is a must have and its a classic 
 in my game library.
  
  Graphics: 
  
  + Graphic visual, quality and effects are great, mostly for the Direct x9 setting. 
  +good game 
 even works on older graphic cards. 
  +/-even tho you can tweak the settings for performance, the game is still a system hog.
  
  
 Sound: 
  
  + The musical score fits the game well, you will mostly hear that orchestra music like most WW2 
 games. 
  + Gun shot, explosions and other sound effects are real loud and clear, EAX effect makes you feel 
 like your in the game. 
  +Voice acting is well done, the quotes are funny, Mcregor made me laugh alot... cant forget about 
 the russians either.
  
  Game Play: 
  
  + Plenty of weapons to choose from, machine guns, rifles, pistols grenades etc.. 
  + Enemy AI 
 is smart. 
  +/- Even tho its a run and shot game, its still alot of fun, especially MP.
  - sometimes the smoke grenades and the "cover life recovery" can be annoying for others.
  
 
  Replay Value: 
  
  + MP is great fun, plenty of matches and players duking it out. 
  - not much to do when you beat the game, you will either go for the MP. 
  + Time to kill those 
 jerry bastards!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BMW_GTR
Rating: 8.9
Date: Mar 2, 2006 1:53 am PT
Review:  CALL OF DUTY
  Being the little brother of one of the most highly acclaimed shooters of 2003 is not necessarily 
 an enviable position. While it means a certain degree of easy sales, you have a lot to live up 
 to. However, Activision and company were careful not to crank the Hype-O-Meter up too high, choosing 
 instead to talk about the game in small doses; an interview here, a batch of screenshots there. 
 When I got the 6-CD package amid a flurry of other shooters coming out in the same time frame, 
 my initial reaction was mild. Then I began the install, the music swelled, and all those fuzzily 
 warm memories of ricocheting bullets and constant explosions came back like long-lost friends. 
 Call of Duty, it's been a while. We're glad to have you back. 
  
  Like its older sibling, CoD 2 covers World War II across three interwoven campaigns featuring the 
 Russians, the British, and the Americans. However, now you can skip ahead from one faction to another, 
 once you've played through a batch of missions. I personally wasn't champing at the bit to play 
 one or the other, but I guess it's nice to have the functionality there. The game also auto-detects 
 16:9 and 16:10 widescreen ratios, as well as the funky 5:4 ratio for LCD monitors (like 1280x1024) . 
 You'll have a solid selection of performance tweaking options, or you can let the game set what 
 it thinks will be optimal settings. With a 6800GT, 3.0GHz P4 and 1GB of RAM, the game plays quite 
 smoothly at 1280x1024, with anisotropic filtering (to make textures look nicer) and 4xAA (to reduce 
 jagged edges) . There were slowdowns when it rained and when there was a lot of smoke on screen, 
 but it was otherwise quite playable with the latest official nVidia drivers. Speaking of those 
 guys, there's also an "Optimize for SLI" toggle, but I don't have the luxury of two hot boards, 
 so let's move on. 
  
  Many of you who grabbed the single-player demo noted that the game didn't run all that great. All 
 I can tell you is that the retail version appears to have been optimized. Textures look great, 
 and there's lots of shiny stuff going on. Normal mapping is fairly subtle, except for a few elderly 
 character models who look like they're bathed in a sheen of sweat. It's not quite on par with FEAR, 
 but I think even the hardcore shooter fan will find little to complain about. Most importantly: 
 I saw little sign of cutting corners for multi-platform development (as the game is also coming 
 out on the 360) . I'm pleased to report that everything looks quite sharp. 
  
  And CoD 2 is about the grisliest game I've seen get the ESRB T rating. There's no blood and guts 
 splashing all over the place, but you will have dying soldiers attempting to drag themselves to 
 safety, only to be bludgeoned to death by a nearby enemy. And they'll scream bloody murder when 
 they die. On the other hand, the only blood you'll see is when you shoot someone, and the profanity 
 stays firmly in PG-13 territory. And there's none of the chunky dismemberment we've seen in Brothers 
 in Arms. 
  
  One of the other things I noticed is that CoD isn't as oppressively scripted as the first installment. 
 You'll typically only have one path to one objective, but the game often breaks things up by putting 
 you in a battlefield and giving you a batch of locations you have to reach, typically to kill people 
 or blow something up. And in these situations, you can choose what order you want to go in. There 
 are still the dreaded minefields painted into areas that diverge from where the level designers 
 want you to go, and objects piled up just so at key junctions, funneling you down one arbitrary 
 path. 
  
  But it's good to see that Infinity Ward is making an effort to open things up a little. I also 
 noticed that there didn't appear to be the Infinite Soldier problem, where the bad guys (always 
 the German army) keep on spawning from behind an obstacle until you've crossed an invisible threshold 
 on the map. They will eventually stop coming (and I also noticed that it's a good idea to keep 
 your eye on any nearby MG42, as they tend to gravitate towards the emplaced machine gun) . Lastly, 
 there's no Medal of Honor-style sniper gauntlet to deal with, and few snipers in general -- which 
 is not to say that the Germans don't have any tricks up their sleeves. But I won't spoil anything 
 for you. 
  You'll have plenty of other gauntlets to deal with, a gameplay loop that Infinity Ward has honed 
 to a science -- almost to a fault, in fact. The tempo almost always leads up to "defend this location 
 while waiting for reinforcements," complete with a timer that, while helpful, does reduce immersion, 
 in my opinion. Then the cavalry comes in, the music swells emotionally, and someone says something 
 dramatic. It's still an effective device, but it does get a little exhausting at times. The climactic 
 mission of each campaign doesn't have the nearly cartoonish difficulty and scope of United Offensive, 
 instead choosing to emphasize a lower-key but nevertheless crucial engagement, like Brothers in 
 Arms did. You'll still go through some famous locations, like Stalingrad and the American landing 
 at Normandy, but the bulk of your effort will be in securing key locations and gradually pushing 
 back the German offensive. CoD still often meets and sometimes exceeds the grandeur of the original, 
 but it does so typically by pitting you against an amazing number of enemies, rather than letting 
 the historic scenery and cinematic music do a lot of the legwork. 
  
  Your non-interactive squad mates will also do a good deal of legwork on their own, and I think 
 their power level was nicely balanced. This is a very difficult thing to get right apparently, 
 with some games turning your cohorts into cannon fodder and others making them dumb automatons 
 who don't move out of a line of fire unless you give them enough space nearby. No, the soldiers 
 here do a great job of sticking with you, opening fire and calling out targets and enemy grenades. 
 They do such a good job of following along with your progress that they'll position themselves 
 and wait apparently forever if they get a little too far ahead of you, which is another one of 
 those moments where scripted gameplay can be a blessing and a curse. It doesn't happen often, but 
 you'll notice when the invisible choreographer is waiting for you to pick up the cue and continue 
 on. 
  
  But for a script-oriented game, the enemy AI is pretty darned impressive, especially with their 
 grenades. They might catch themselves in the face every once in a while, but hey, who doesn't? 
 The overwhelming majority of the time, they'll be menacing you with "potato mashers" flung expertly 
 at your location, forcing you to back up, potentially into their line of sight. Your cohorts don't 
 do a consistently good job of getting out of the way, but they're constantly and subtly replaced, 
 which is another element you make like or dislike. Personally, I thought, "The more, the merrier," 
 but I could see how the constant refill of meat shields will feel a little artificial. Believe 
 me, though, there will be times when you be extremely grateful for every extra hand. 
  If it wasn't for the grenade indicator popping up every time a German decided to turn me into soldier 
 salad, I would have been toast more times than I can count. Yes, another potentially immersion-breaking 
 artifice, but also a life saver. Especially when you have more than one of them coming at you. 
 The enemy will also progressively retreat, stay behind cover, run from grenades (which you can't 
 cook, unfortunately) , aim effectively, savage you with melee attacks when you get too close, and 
 generally provide a challenging opponent who's nearly as good at the game as you are. If the terrain 
 is wide open enough, they might even flank you, although it's typically not an option. But they 
 will toss the mashers at you just when you think you've gotten comfortable behind that wall. They 
 won't really use the smoke grenades that much, but you certainly will, because there are a lot 
 of guns, people, and other problems sitting between you and victory; a little extra battlefield 
 haze goes a long way. 
  However, smoke grenades won't be the difference between life and death, since you can rapidly regenerate 
 health. Yep, as long as you duck behind something for a few seconds, after taking a bullet or three 
 in the face, you'll be just fine. You won't be able to sit on grenades or dive into a nest of angry 
 Germans, but you'll be able to stick and move like Arnold Schwarzenegger. Even an MG42 is manageable, 
 as long as you have something solid in between it and you. Hide, pop up, fix, fire, drop back down, 
 repeat ad infinitum. This Wolverine-like feature will be essential in certain high-powered engagements, 
 but I would sooner have health packs or a medic, rather than be able to take hordes of enemies 
 almost single-handedly. It's cool for a while, but then things get a little too easy, once you 
 get the rhythm down. And it's there on all difficulty levels, and in multiplayer. The only way 
 you're going to die is if you can't somehow escape from a grenade or if you stumble into several 
 enemies at once, where their melee attacks will make quick work of you. The amount of damage you 
 can handle dwindles quite a lot as you ramp up the difficulty levels, but you'll always be able 
 to fully recover from pretty serious damage. 
  
  Fortunately, this dynamic isn't as useful in multiplayer, because the damage model is pretty steep. 
 Unless you're on a large map with few people, you'll get popped before you can regenerate. Snipers 
 can get one-shot kills, and other weapons can as well, if you aim for the head. In addition to 
 deathmatch, team deathmatch, and CTF, you'll also get an HQ Mode and a Search and Destroy Mode. 
 The last two are objective-based, with icons showing up on the map indicating where you need to 
 go. In HQ mode, each side must attempt to establish their base. When their HQ is enabled, your 
 team members can't respawn when they die, and you must destroy their HQ object to bring those folks 
 back to life. If everyone on your team dies, it's game over. You'll also get one point for every 
 second that your HQ is up, with the winner also determined by who gets the highest score, but primarily 
 by who survives. Search and Destroy is pretty self-descriptive. You have to get to a object, typically 
 an 88 gun or the like, and blow it up. The defender can defuse the bomb, or they can also win by 
 killing your team before you plant the explosive. 
  All in all, the weapons feel pretty well balanced, and the gameplay should be familiar to those 
 who played the original Call of Duty. It doesn't outdo the single-player portion (nor did we expect 
 it to) , but it serves as a fine complement that should extend the life of the game. It has 13 maps, 
 including three remakes from the original game, up to 32 players per server, VOIP chat, and two 
 weapons not available in single-player. The levels I played felt generally balanced towards the 
 maximum, and most of them are wide-open and multi-tiered. Campers will have a tough time finding 
 a place to roost.
  
  Closing Comments
  Call of Duty is part of a proud, if tired, subgenre of shooters, and once again it manages to rise 
 above the weariness of the material to find something not only fresh but visceral and immediate. 
 It looks great, it sounds awesome, and it provides both meaty single-player and multiplayer. 
 
  
  However, I find implementing regenerating health to be a little troublesome. It allows you to experience 
 a kind of combat only a mythical super-soldier could withstand, and in so doing, propels the game 
 from gritty authenticity to John Woo fantasy. It's difficult to feel like you're really there when 
 you continue to move unabated after taking several MP44 rounds to the chest. Maybe I've just become 
 to accustomed to the necessary fiction of health packs, but this doesn't feel like an honest alternative. 
 Perhaps Call of Duty did fall sway to the evils of multi-platform development after all in implementing 
 a Master Chief-like health system -- but without the science fiction context to go along with it. 
 In the long run, it's up to the gamer to decide whether he can she can dig it. If you do, there's 
 a really fun game to be found. It's just not as fun as it might have been. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: aeris100182
Rating: 9.6
Date: Mar 1, 2006 11:05 pm PT
Review:  In the newest installment of Call of Duty..... Its much improved from its presessor with rich improved 
 graphics. In most WWII fps you can never really go wrong with the storyline but in this installment 
 I felt very much as if I was watching a movie and becoming part of the movie in a real time gaming 
 enviroment. Most of the game is action packed with intense campains.. This is one of those games 
 that won't go dull for years and indeed the best $50 I ever spent. If you are looking for the best 
 wwii fps to date I would suggest Call of Duty 2. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nxn3
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 1, 2006 1:04 pm PT
Review:  First of all the gameplay is brilliant as the health system is the best in any game i have ever 
 played as there are no health packs all yo do is take cover and watch your screen unblur from blood. The 
 ai is great and the aiming system is sooo real that you have to aim down the sight for a more accurate 
 shot. Unlike the Big Red One version this is far better every gun has a different way to reload 
 as in ps2/xbox1/gamecube version most of the guns reload the excately same but anyway its online 
 mode is one of the best out there (but i would not say better than battlefield 2) as it goes up 
 64 players.
  
  The graphics are detailed to the max as bricks and walls look real and the detail on the guns are 
 smooth and beautiful. The troops are at a good amount of detail aswell.
  
  The sound on this is excellent with the sounds of explosions and bullets firing everywhere. The 
 Voice work is another good thing about this game and it makes the game intense.
  
  Overall this is a must have if you have a good graphics card and love fps'.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: mkamau
Rating: 7
Date: Feb 28, 2006 2:40 am PT
Review:  this is one of the best games ever created on pc. Actualy it is the best game i have enjoyed playing 
 on the pc. For the missions are interesting and creative. The looks and creativity is so intreaving 
 that i cannot even put into words. i played the game at my friends house and he had instaled it 
 and lent me the cd so that i could instal it to mine and play it when ever i wanted to but there 
 was a little problem and that was my friend lost his case with the cd keys to instal and that ment 
 l couldnt instal it so i tried looking for it on the net but i couldt find it so who ever is has 
 the game and the cd keys for it can you please send it to me at "kamau. mwangi@googlemail. com"
 
  PLEASE 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mikedevilsfan
Rating: 7.8
Date: Feb 27, 2006 8:08 pm PT
Review:  Call of duty 2 is awesome, as you would expect. It does, however contain massive amounts of bugs, 
 bugs, bugs!
  This game is tons of fun when it works. Some of the problems you will encounter are AI problems, 
 soldiers on both sides standing with their arms spread like scarecrows, and missions that don't 
 work right. In particular, you will complete a mission and get stuck waiting for it to move on, 
 while your men run around for hours doing nothing. Infinity has been super slow releasing a patch 
 that is desperately needed. Other than that it is a great game.
  
  -MSM 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rdhnightwolf
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 27, 2006 12:34 pm PT
Review:  Call of Duty was awsome, Call of Duty 2 is even better! Forget UO, this game does not need vehicles. 
 The main reason the game was so successful in the early stages was because of the lack of vehicles. 
 
  
  The graphics are great, the sound is outstanding! MP is where this game is at. Play this game both 
 SP and MP and you will not be disappointed.
  
  Multiplayer has the same great modes it did back in CoD1 with CTF and HQ added. The effects on 
 the field are great and the overall feel is very solid.
  
  Call of Duty 2 is CoD1 all hopped up on good crack! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Yazon
Rating: 8.8
Date: Feb 26, 2006 9:28 am PT
Review:  One of the greatest historical shooters Call of Duty continued with the sequel that brings the 
 whole new gameplay and the strategy of the battle in the field.
  In Call of Duty 2 your are giving the opportunity to fight for USSR, UK and US soldiers. The main 
 idea of the game is the same: complete the objective and stay alive! But the way of game is playing 
 has changed from ground up. There is no more 100% system of health (like you are some sort of machine) 
 now, during the battle, you can be hurt or killed but the way you will understand it depends on 
 the visuals: now when you are hurt and near to death the display of your PC or TV will become red-blooded 
 like in real life and you will have to hide and rest a litle.
  The AI of the enemies is also very important. Now they are much smarter. During the battle they 
 will not stay in one place waiting for you to kill them. They will hide, drop a smoke granade and 
 then attack with the all forses they got.
  But the so famous "without script" missions are not so real! During the compliting of the game 
 I was always able to complete all of them without some trouble. And I hadn't noticed the difference 
 from games like Medal of Honor or CoD. As the same you are compliting the objective like "Destroy....." 
 or "Capture......". And there is only one way to complete it - COMPLETE It! 
  The graphics and sound are one of the best that I have ever seen. Ofcourse the graphics could be 
 better while the Sound is perfect! You can hear the bullets flying by!
  At the end of review I would like to add: If you like the WW@ games or just high quality shooters 
 - Play this game and you will not be dissapointed.
  Tillyaev "Yazon" Tahir. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jawbreaker13o
Rating: 4
Date: Feb 25, 2006 6:33 pm PT
Review:  This game is supposed to be one of the best WW2 games out there. COME ON, This game cant even compare 
 to being good. The Guns are super fake looking and they have inaccurate sounds and it is whatever 
 gun has the most bullets wins. The walk speed is slow and the only good thing is the smoke nade 
 graphics. Speaking of graphics... Everyone says this game has good graphics. Yes the Images may 
 make it seem like that but they are not so good looking. I find them ugly. All the guns are fat 
 and the textures are dumb, too plain. Overall this Game is not worth anyones money or time! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sudantha8527
Rating: 8.6
Date: Feb 25, 2006 5:47 pm PT
Review:  Gave me a real War feeling that lacked in Delta Force... The graphics are super and the sound takes 
 me to a real war world it's like disconnecting from real life.. The AI is pretty good they hide 
 and shoot unlike in Delta Force where they love to get shot up by you... The best part I loved 
 is that you play next to real team mates and it really gets to you when one of them goes down, 
 another thing Delta Force lacked which I really wanted in games. The game for me was a bit short. 
 But it really got me addicted and kept me at the computer.. Diffiiculty is easy you don't actully 
 die if you play the game with the mind set of a soldier. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ziggy56
Rating: 9.4
Date: Feb 25, 2006 11:38 am PT
Review:  Alright call of duty 2 is first of all a FPS if you didn't know, and it is great. the mutiplayer 
 is mostly all i play now cause i beat the first player which you can get about 30-60 hours out 
 of depending on how familiar you are to first person shooters and the difficulty you put it on. 
 the only thing that upset me was the lack of maps, you only have about 10 to play on in multiplayer; 
 and that you can't use a controler. but besides that its a great game and i here there coming out 
 with a patch with more maps. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Alilas1093
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 24, 2006 11:13 am PT
Review:  They took out all the good stuff from United Offensive , like the portable MG's, and the cook nades, 
 and sprint. The tanks were fine didnt miss them thats why i got BF2 for. But to me its a console 
 game on PC? If you look at the pre-realease screens there all for the 360, and when the time came 
 for the PcC, they just copied and paste. I mean they realse it with no punkbuster and NO map editor! what! 
 I could have wait an extra month for them to put it to it, but they felt it was important at the 
 time. And this health regen think is totally console. I mean techically you have god mode for both 
 SP and MP, in sp you get shot just look for some cover and realx... Full healt same in mp, hit a 
 guy with a nade thinking hes deasd with one shot, boom he runs out with a shotgun. Ya why did they 
 put a SHOTGUN in the game, during the war in Europe, there were very little accounts of shotguns 
 being used there but in the Pacfice were Jungle and guriella war constant it was hard to know when 
 the emeny would just pop out and shoot ya. Overall Sp is freakin awesome they capture the drama 
 and destrcution of WWII Europe, But MP is fun but gets old REALLY FAST same maps, no map editor 
 and theres a chance of a guy to come into a server with wall hacks and aim-bots. I just with the 
 upcoming patch that was supposed to come out this early 2006 they will fix this and give us a map 
 editor and PB, and some changes to MP. But if you want a realy good WWII GAME THIS IS IT!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wsammut
Rating: 8.3
Date: Feb 24, 2006 9:08 am PT
Review:  First of all i am a call of duty fan, i have played call of duty from when it first came out, and 
 i emediatly bought call of duty 2 when it was released. Even though my pc is not the best money 
 could buy and so the graphics are not the best, they still are amazing, and the sound just makes 
 the game much much more enjoyable. The main missions of each campaign are awesome for example the 
 first american mission is one of the best, and it is most ejoyable in veteran mode. Simple buy 
 this game cause u will never regret it 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RUSKULL
Rating: 9.3
Date: Feb 24, 2006 6:59 am PT
Review:  The only reason Call of Duty 2 doesn't mark as important a milestone for the video game industry 
 is simply because it is a sequel, and it's still another WW2 shooter. That being said however, 
 it still deserves no less than being ranked as 2005's best FPS. 
  
  What COD 1 and 2 have both managed to capture is a real sense of action, realism, and awe. Deliberately 
 triggered scripted events to help deliver an experience that goes beyond reality by bringing a 
 big "show" right to your feet. You could easily say that any FPS does this, simply because the 
 efforts of every developer involved is presented to you beyond the gun at the front of your screen. 
 But COD delivers an experience "for you" that is head and shoulders above what most other developers 
 are doing.
  
  Take Quake 4. Indeed it's graphics were amazing, but the gameplay efforts were unchanged from level 
 one, right to the final boss. In fact, the bosses were the only thing interesting about it, and 
 even then we've seen that stuff done a million times before. I will leave my full Quake 4 review 
 for another time (although what can I say that nobody else has) , but it helps my point. Ironically, 
 the historically based COD games are more of a sign of the future of video games, than the futuristic 
 looking dinosaur that is Quake 4. I'll also note that I rated Resident Evil 4 as being just as 
 important for the very same reason, so obviously others are catching on and moving forward with 
 the genre, 1st or 3rd person.
  
  So developers everywhere, take note of what guys like Infinity Ward are doing, because they get 
 it, they understand what gamers want. Deliver a cinematic experience for the gamer, as though it 
 were the greatest spectacle Steven Spielberg wanted you to experience, whether you were actually 
 in the game or not.
  
  -Russ
  
  Final note, even if your computer cannot handle the graphics at full, playing this game on the 
 360 would only lessen the experience simply by relying on a controller. Why you would play this 
 without the proper mouse/keyboard set-up is beyond me unless your only choice was your 360. But 
 I suppose that would be a different review anyway ; ) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tuff_gong92
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 1, 2007 9:37 am PT
Review:  Call of Duty 2 is the WWII game you have been waiting for. This is as good as it gets. Gripping 
 live action sequences, best graphics for a world war shooter ever, and intense immersive action. 
 The multiplayer will become a cult classic. The Smoke graphics and physics that are too good to 
 be true. The weapons are exactly as they should be. You actually need to think and work to get 
 through this. This not the same monotonous moment after another. From the rigid streets of Moscow 
 to the piercing hot deserts of Tunisia and the wet and muddy streets of France. Plus there are 
 GOOD tank sequences. This game is great moment after another and that is good enough for me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nickdastick
Rating: 9.8
Date: Feb 23, 2006 11:00 am PT
Review:  I got this game the day the 360 came out. I have never been happier with a video game purchase. 
 I have played through this game many times and plan to keep on playing it. There are so many things 
 this game does right and almost nothing it does wrong. The smoke effects are just insane and the 
 combat is so crazy I sometimes feel drained after playing this with the surround sound turned up. 
 Every person that has played this with me loves it! It is our favorite multiplayer game. The only 
 thing that would have made it better was co-op but that still doesn't hamper the game much. If 
 you don't have this game you need to buy it. It is a must have for sure! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LordOfDark19
Rating: 9.4
Date: Feb 23, 2006 6:43 am PT
Review:  First of all Call of Duty is one of the best shooters around. I must say that this is the first 
 game that I played from the Call of Duty series. The campaign is long and you can play as the Soviet 
 army, British army, and the American army as the story of the WWII happened. The game is good and 
 very fun. Oh, what am I talking about!? This game is awesome and you must play it!!! Especially 
 if you are a shooters guy. Overall, Activision done excellent work, and provides lots of satisfying, 
 and this is one of the greatest titles of Activision that you can play. Here is the details of 
 the categories about this masterpiece:
  
  *Gameplay*
  
  The gameplay is just fast paced and very fun. The campaign offers really good hours as long as 
 it lasts. Every mission is different and has its own style. Sometimes the missions offers strong 
 and erosive action, and sometimes you must be patient and wait for the right moment to attack the 
 enemy, but it don't sucks the fun and the action from it. The AI is done impressive, and the enemies 
 are slickers and smart, if you will do mistakes they can take it for their advantage, although 
 sometimes they do stupid things. There is a little of improvements, but overall the gameplay is 
 terrific and don't disappoints.
  Score:9.
  
  *Graphics*
  
  The graphics is one of the best benefits in this game. It looks so good that its hurts, but to 
 run this game on highest settings without slow speed, and with high frame rate, you must have a 
 strong system. Everything is detailed smooth and sharp, if it is to the explosions and the environment. 
 The characters, the vehicles, the planes, the buildings looks extremely good, including the spacial 
 effects that surrounding the game. What can I say more... The graphics is perfect.
  Score:10.
  
  *Sound*
  
  The sounds also don't disappoints and contains good speech acting, 
 awesome musics that come in the right times, and all the sound effects of the shoots, explosions, 
 and the destruction. It provides great fun and increases the experience of the game.
  Score: 9.
  
  My overall score: 9.5.
  Until next time!
  
  Reviewer: Lord of Darkness. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SolidSnake4
Rating: 7
Date: Feb 22, 2006 1:25 pm PT
Review:  World War II, a lot of games are about that war, you've pretty much fired every gun, drove every 
 vehicle, fought in every area. The genre is near to exhausted for storyline, and that is what this 
 game does'nt focus on :) . This game enhances it predecessor of Call of Duty.
  
  The good in the game play: it feels good (walking, firing guns) , and you got perfect control, jumping 
 over edge's, trough windows. Also Friendly keep spawning in your back, making you feel you're part 
 of an army, not a small elite group. Also your friends will trow back grenades if they are thrown 
 on their feet. The enemy AI is good as well, even on veteran they miss often, just like you would.
 
  
  The bad in game play: Your friends are almost useless, they cant shoot, they don't move if almost/all 
 enemies are dead, and they don't cover your back well (you're sniping, and you got 5 friends in 
 the same building, but still you get shot from the inside) . And sometimes it feels like the game 
 is re-spawning until you move out. Level design isn't refreshing, you repeat a lot, and things 
 you do alot in other games.
  Also there is no climatic buildup, nor is there a storyline. You feel like you're playing a game, 
 not a war.
  
  Graphics: The close range graphics are great, but you don't got to long to admire your enemies 
 face :) . Long range is a little bit worse. Also if you fire across the Rhine with an '88 you don't 
 see an explosion.
  
  Sound: Its intense, maybe a little over the edge, but is overall good
  
  Music: One word, Bad. 
 You know when your missions ends, thats it.
  
  If i still had to buy it, it would'nt be my first choice, get some other better games first, then 
 try this one.
  
  Game play - if i would include things like storyline and climatic build up, a 6. If i just look 
 at how it plays, and how much fun you have in that, and 9.
  
  Graphics - nothing you haven't seen before, but not worse either. an 8.
  
  Sound - Giving a 
 9 for that, Sound effects are well done.
  
  Value - Not special, but fun anyway.
  
  Reviewer's tilt - Not thrilled, but it is fun to play.
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: reedler1234
Rating: 7.6
Date: Feb 22, 2006 12:46 pm PT
Review:  Call of duty 2 puts you in the shoes of a soldier in the world war 2, and ltes you go around killing 
 the nazis and has some tactical shooting but also can take a long time to get from one point to 
 another.
  
  This game has the campaign mode and the ability to replay missions for fun and possibly the best 
 online play but otherwise theres nothing, but theres enough to keep you occupied forever if youre 
 a fan. This game's campaign is engrossing, and i would have continued it if it wasnt so long, long 
 in terms of getting from one place to another.
  
  Theres objectives that require you to go to a point and do something like plant a bomb or repair 
 a wire or go to a phone and many others to to get somewhere, you have to clear that area of so 
 many soldiers, who are obseesed with hiding from you, and who are incredibly accurate, so you cant 
 run through the gunfire to get somewhere and hope you live, you will die, so your only hope is 
 to stay in a crawling position or ducked and sit there trying to kill these soldiers with your 
 somewhat stupid teammates, who tend to die quite easily, which can take 10 minutes or more which 
 has made me quit the game and play something else countless times.
  
  This game looks and sounds amazing, the graphics can be adjusted so you get the most realistic 
 looking thing ever, the enemies are well designed, they look distinct and unique and real, and 
 your squad look like and behave like they're on your side, you can even see them breathing the 
 smoke when its cold. the sounds are great to, the gunfire to the accents in the dialogue and the 
 music, its all great sounding, possible the best ive heard.
  
  You can hold 2 guns at once and a collection of grenades which add to the realism, and you cant 
 stay in a standing poisition when you reload or are aiming, so you spend a lot of your time hiding, 
 then coming out of hiding to shoot and hiding again, so it can get tiring unless youre a fan of 
 war games.
  
  This game is still on my shelf, not being played, i go back to it every now and then to see if 
 i can tolerate hiding for ages and then shooting to no avail, i always end up quitting but i can 
 tell you, if i was a fan of these types of games, then id be hooked to this game, if you love war 
 games, youll eat this one up. im more of a timesplitters / halo shooter fan so i didnt like this 
 title but there are some great aspects of this game that should be put into upcoming shooters. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sCaReCr0W
Rating: 8.9
Date: Feb 22, 2006 11:28 am PT
Review:  Call of Duty 2 (PC) Review
  
  
  
  The first-person-shooter genre of gaming has been almost completely exhausted of World War II themed 
 shooters by this time but developers keep churning them out anyway. Developer Infinity Ward returns 
 to the same theme for inspiration once again with the sequel to the popular PC game Call of Duty, 
 suitably titled Call of Duty 2. Both the graphical and auditory presentation see improvement in 
 this follow-up but unfortunately the gameplay, particularly in multiplayer, shows signs of imbalance. 
 The single-player campaign of Call of Duty 2 is in fact technically superior to its predecessor 
 but lacks some of the shock-and-awe moments the first game illustrated like never before seen; 
 the rush on Stalingrad, for example. And the multiplayer, although extremely similar to the excellent 
 and traditional multiplayer of the original, can be awfully frustrating. Call of Duty 2 is not 
 a better game than its ancestor but still provides plenty of new content that any player who can 
 stand one more World War II shooter will undeniably enjoy. 
  
  
  
  An explanation of the events you will take part in is generally unnecessary since its obvious 
 that youll be shooting up Nazis in battles that took place during World War II. Russian, British, 
 and American campaigns will be the backdrops once again, but instead of one seamless progression 
 you can unlock missions at certain times allowing you to mix it up a little. Generally youll take 
 the role of one soldier grouped with many more, on foot, finding cover, shooting Nazi scum, and 
 advancing at the opportune time closing in on your objective. There are many different types of 
 terrain in which youll be performing these actions; from snow drenched fields to dry desert bunkers. 
 And mandatory in any World War II game, youll have a dramatic beach-landing to overcome. Each 
 and every mission is intense and exciting and the scenery is never boring. 
  
  
  
  The standard shooting mechanics are virtually unchanged but the gameplay does have a different 
 feel to it nevertheless. The primary reason for this dissimilar feeling is the altered health system. 
 No more health packs. No more frantically searching for health packs. No more getting stuck at 
 a checkpoint with no health packs. As a substitute to health packs you have a more Halo-esque health-regenerating 
 system. When you get shot the screen will turn red around the outer edges and start cutting off 
 your vision, and you need to get behind cover to recuperate. After a few seconds youre ready to 
 go again. Obviously this isnt anything even remotely realistic for a World War II era shooter, 
 but it improves the fun-factorand thats what really matters. When implemented into the multiplayer 
 one may assume that it doesnt work that well, allowing people to regain all their health simply 
 by rounding a corner and waiting for a couple seconds. Fortunately the system hardly poses a problem 
 for multiplayer in that way at all; the guns all seem more powerful than they did in the previous 
 game, and so youll rarely be able to escape from fire quick enough before going down. 
  
  
  
  The aforementioned imbalance in multiplayer is mostly due to the fact that all the guns 
 have little-to-no kick-back. This, coupled with the increased deadliness of the weapons, makes 
 the game more frantic since youll need super-quick reactions to win in a close-quarters duel. 
 This fact alone doesnt necessarily make the game frustrating, but the extremely overpowered Trench 
 gun and MP-44 succeed easily enough at creating I hate this game and want to throw my computer 
 out the window moments. The Trench gun (Shotgun) is meant to be primarily close-range oriented, 
 but ends up being one of the deadliest weapons at even mid-range. It has no kick-back whatsoever 
 and is vastly overpowered considering. The MP-44 on the other hand is the single best weapon that 
 you can use since it is fully-automatic and yet still shoots straight enough to snipe someone on 
 the other side of the map, and again has nearly no kick-back. 
  
  
  
  If youre a self-respecting player then youll more than likely try and defeat the multitude of 
 players using the overpowered weaponry with more traditional, balanced, and skill-based weapons 
 such as the Kar 98 rifleBut even the best of players have lapses in judgment, or simply must fight 
 fire with fire. God forgives you for those times, and you must assemble all the will-power in you 
 to try to give up those sinful urgesSeriously, the game is a great deal of fun the majority of 
 the time when you overcome the imbalances. The game is nearly as fun as its predecessor, and has 
 a number of gameplay modes to choose from. There are the traditional modes such as Search and Destroy, 
 and Capture the Flag, or the popular Headquarters mode which provides a good dose of frantic, ever-changing, 
 stay-on-your-toes type of gameplay. The HQ mode was in actuality first conceived and released for 
 one of the original Call of Duty patches and soon became a hit. 
  
  
  
  The basic concept of the mode is still in place; one team needs to take control of the radio at 
 a specific point on the map, and hold it for as long as possible preventing the opposing team from 
 destroying it; for every second a team has control of the radio they gain one point. There are 
 a few key changes that differentiate the mode from the original incarnation. Previously there was 
 only one point on the map where the radio was hinted at being deployed, and so both teams would 
 quickly clash at that point for control of that position. In Call of Duty 2 there are two possible 
 positions where the radio can be set up thus creating a new layer of strategy and teamwork if victory 
 is to be achieved, since splitting the team up to take hold of both positions could be the way 
 to take control of the radio. The other major difference is in how players no longer spawn at a 
 consistent rate; there was previously a timer of which was counting down from 35 seconds over and 
 over, and if you died you could have to wait anywhere from 33 seconds to 2 or 3 seconds. In this 
 updated version of the mode when you die either when the radio has not been captured, or when the 
 other team has control of the radio, you simply have to wait ten seconds until youre back in the 
 action. If you happen to be on the team that has control of the radio as you die, then you must 
 wait however long until the radio is neutralized. To neutralize the radio it must either be destroyed 
 by the opposing team or defended for more than a few minutes by your own. 
  
  
  
  The graphics in Call of Duty 2 look great on pretty much every level, even if theyre not as advanced 
 as a game like F. E. A. R and not as artistically inspired as a game like Half-Life 2. And as always, 
 the sound presentation is once again in the neighborhood of flawlessness. Just as the original 
 Call of Duty accomplished at creating a truly epic and terrifying war experience, this sequel continues 
 the trend. There are some moments in the single player campaign that are especially memorable even 
 if theyre not quite on the same level of the original game. Crawling through an above ground pipe 
 on Russian soil, as bullets pierce the pipe just inches from you; seeing tanks roll right over 
 the bunker youre hiding in; and the climbing of the precipitous beach cliff on the landing of 
 Pointe du Hoc, watching as your fellow soldiers get shot and fall to their gruesome deaths. This 
 game is intense by every definition of the word and rarely lets up in its enthralling onslaught. 
 The game never gets tedious, boring or very frustrating and yet still provides a good challenge. 
 The actual graphical effects and techniques are impressive in their own way. Theres bump-mapping, 
 blur effects, and plenty of other fancy effects, but theyre used in conjunction with excellent 
 level design and detailed environments. And to top it off the game doesnt need a massive monster 
 of a system to run it well, since the game has been wonderfully optimized. 
  
  
  
  Call of Duty 2 is the type of sequel we should hope to see more often, playing up what was excellent 
 about its predecessor, taking steps forward for the series, but not reinventing the series completely. 
 For a fan of Call of Duty theres absolutely no reason why you should miss this game, and to be 
 perfectly honest anyone looking for an intensely engaging game should give Call of Duty 2 a look. 
 There are points during the multiplayer in which youll become increasingly frustrated by the imbalanced 
 and overpowered weapons. But the good outweighs the bad. The original Call of Duty set the bar 
 pretty high with its freakishly intense combat situations and conventional but radiant multiplayer 
 that kept you coming back for more. Call of Duty 2 continues down that same route.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: themubashir
Rating: 8.9
Date: Feb 21, 2006 9:36 am PT
Review:  Here Comes the Sequel to one of the greatest WWII Shooters ever.
  After too much of waiting, Call Of Duty 2 Comes for the PC with a Bang.
  This game is Seriously 
 Intense. Each battle is very effectively depicted. You feel a part of those battles.
  GAMEPLAY - The gameplay is Good enough. The A. I of u r Allies as well as the Enemies is good. They 
 respond to the current situation very efficiently 
  For e. g If u throw a bomb at the enemies they Hide for cover and counter u by throwing a bomb) 
 even u r allies pick up the bombs of the enemies and throw back at them. There is something missing 
 though, like u cant Sprint and there is no health meter. But its good that our health increases if 
 v can get good cover. Gameplay is Nothing to boast about, but its sure an improvement compared to 
 its Prequels.
  SOUND - Magnifient is the word that comes to my mouth when i talk about sound in COD2. Each gun 
 has its own sound which makes it much more realistic. You can hear Bullets being shot in the Midst 
 of a fiery battle,
  Music is excellent. Soud in the game makes it much more fun.
  GRAPHICS - graphics in COD2 are nothing short of amazing. Everything from soldiers to Bomb Blasts 
 to Environments look so real. Youll be immersed in the World.
  I would like to say that Call of Duty 2 is a sequel worthy of praise.
  although the Saving System 
 is not user friendly (You cant save manually) .
  The battles are just brilliant you wish u were a part of it (well actually NO) .
  COD franchise 
 delivers yet again with an awesome game.
  All in all a must have for all Gamers.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: AvalancheRider
Rating: 9.7
Date: Feb 21, 2006 8:48 am PT
Review:  Unfortunately, CoD2 isn't QUITE as amazing as CoD: UO was to me, but it's still an amazing game. 
 I feel as though the GS reviewer did an accurate and complete job reviewing the single player mode, 
 so I'm going to focus entirely on multiplayer.
  
  I'd like to start by saying what I miss from CoD: UO. There are no more tanks. No more domination 
 or base assault game types and no more mobile LMGs. There is no more ranking system, which is also 
 disappointing to me. I also really wish we could see some Italians in a World War II game for once 
 (well, for twice) , as once again we lack for them.
  
  Now, on to the changes and additions. The new health system as described in the GS review makes 
 the multiplayer game kind of odd; if you get shot, you can hide and heal, which makes it much more 
 important for your attacker to leap around corners and over fences to finish you off if they hit 
 you so you don't just heal again. Beyond this, they finally gave the Brits access to a lot of the 
 American weapons that their armed forces ended up using throughout the war; the thompson and the 
 garand are both available for use. The Russians finally have the PPS (gameplay-wise very similar 
 to the British sten) , a much more common variant on the PPSh that I'm surprised wasn't in the first 
 two games. The Americans now have access to the grease gun, which is mechanically reminiscent of 
 the German MP40. All sides have the added option of the trench gun, which is essentially a pump 
 action shotgun.
  
  As far as balance is concerned, I think that adding the trench gun was a big mistake. On some maps 
 it can be a disturbingly dominant weapon with entire teams using them almost exclusively. Furthermore, 
 it adds an uncomfortable element of randomness in that it often has drastically different results 
 from shot to shot; sometimes you can fire at a distant target and kill them, but sometimes a shot 
 from only a few feet away yields almost no damage. I'd like to see it changed in the patch so that 
 its buckshot fires in a more or less straight line, which would effectively make it function in 
 gameplay as a short-range bolt-action rifle.
  
  Overall, I'd say the thing I would most like to see changed in an expansion would be the re-inclusion 
 of the UO game types, tanks, and mobile LMGs and possibly the addition of air units. In CoD3 I 
 would like to see some Italians. I think it's high-time for a World War II game to show us some 
 of the less well-known parts of the war, and when's the last time you heard about a battle the 
 Italians had a hand in? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ernelson1976
Rating: 8.6
Date: Feb 21, 2006 8:41 am PT
Review:  One of the best things about Call of Duty is that it puts you in what were real situations during 
 World War II. No ridiculous secret missions against the Nazis here -- just the real thing, storming 
 through small towns and across countryside battlefields with your brothers in arms. And by giving 
 gamers a diverse set of environments on multiple fronts of the war, the game never ceases from 
 throwing new challenges your way.
  
  COD2 really captures the chaotic feel of battle. It does so through incredible sound, great voice 
 acting and beautiful graphics. COD2 benefits greatly from a single great graphic detail -- volumetric 
 smoke. Smoke from a destroyed tank billows and grows as it climbs into the sky. It's a simple effect, 
 really, but it really adds that extra bit of realism. And it's frickin' hard to see through. So 
 not only does it add a nice aesthetic touch to the game, it actually impacts how you play the game.
 
  
  The game is solid, if not terribly innovative, in other matters. The FPS genre is notoriously immune 
 to innovation. But this game gets everything right. The difficulty varies. Early missions are relatively 
 easy, and are only slightly difficult on the harder difficulty levels. Later on, the game does 
 become quite difficult. On the easy difficulty level it is hard to die. Just hide around the corner 
 and wait a minute and you'll be fine. Not realistic, but a game element that newbies to the genre 
 (and others who want an easy ride) will like. Die-hard FPS players will find more challenge on 
 the hardest difficulty levels, but even then the game is not the most difficult to survive.
  
  The voice acting was excellent compared to other games in the genre. It did get a bit over-the-top 
 from time to time, but the dialogue during the missions and firefights was usually spot on and 
 even helpful. The sound in general was excellent, with satisfying explosions rumbling. Even in 
 quiet moments, the distant rattle of gunfire was a nice touch.
  
  The game is neither long nor short by FPS standards. You'll find it more satisfying to play on 
 the two highest difficulty levels, otherwise you'll blaze through it in no time.
  
  If you like WWII shooters, this is by far one of the best available. Not a whole lot of replay 
 value here, but your one or two trips through will definitely be worth it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: radu_cool
Rating: 9.3
Date: Feb 21, 2006 2:29 am PT
Review:  When the original Call of Duty was released a few years ago, it made an impact both on critics 
 and on consumers, even in the already-crowded WWII shooter genre. Call of Duty's visceral action 
 struck a chord with PC shooter fans, thanks to a well-designed campaign, enjoyable multiplayer, 
 and outstanding sound effects. If you liked those aspects of the original, then you're sure to 
 enjoy the sequel, which stays true to the strengths of its predecessor, while enhancing the sense 
 that you're just one soldier in the midst of a massive war machine. It doesn't really break any 
 new ground, but the game nails the core aspects of first-person-shooter gameplay so well that it 
 doesn't need to. 
  
  
  Call of Duty 2 picks up right where its celebrated predecessor left off. 
  As in the first game, 
 Call of Duty 2's campaign will put you in the shoes of a few different soldiers fighting for different 
 Allied factions. You start off as a private in the Russian army, visciously fighting off the invading 
 Germans in Moscow and Stalingrad. The British campaign is unlocked after beating the first Russian 
 mission. For most of these missions you'll be fighting in the sand-swept deserts of North Africa 
 alongside the Desert Rats against Field Marshal Rommel's troops. The final mission in the British 
 campaign sends you to the bombed-out houses and hedgerows of Caen, France. After you're done with 
 that, you'll play as an American corporal in Europe. Yes, you will be doing a D-Day landing, but 
 not on Omaha Beach or Utah Beach, which you've probably played several times before. Instead, you'll 
 be scaling the sheer cliffs of Pointe du Hoc as artillery with the Army Rangers. If you already 
 thought rock climbing was an "extreme" sport, try doing it with artillery and machine-gun fire 
 raining down on you. 
  
  Each of the game's 10 missions is broken up into a few different stages. If you play the game on 
 regular difficulty, you could blow through it in about 10 hours. Ratcheting up the difficulty a 
 notch makes the game much harder and more tactical (this is probably the experience the designers 
 intended) . Since you'll be creeping and peeking more carefully through all the encounters, you'll 
 lengthen the campaign significantly, and enjoy it more. 
  
  Breaking up the campaign into several different narrative vignettes arguably weakens the impact 
 of the plot as a whole, although that was never the strength of Call of Duty in the first place. 
 What this does is allow the designers to put you in a lot of different, interesting situations. 
 One memorable moment in the Russian campaign has you crawling through a raised pipeline to sneak 
 behind German lines and into a fortified factory building. As you make your way through the pipeline, 
 you'll spot and snipe small pockets of German infantry through holes in the pipe. When they fire 
 back up at you, you'll notice bullets tearing through the rusted pipe, ripping open holes for shafts 
 of light to poke through. It's a thrilling effect. You'll also get quite a rush from both participating 
 in and defending against all-out infantry charges across open city squares in Stalingrad. But just 
 as the novelty of these wears off, you're shunted over to the British campaign in North Africa, 
 where you'll do things like participate in night raids of small Tunisian towns, climb up to the 
 top of spires to call in artillery on enemy tanks, and even drive a tank yourself. The American 
 campaign has its own memorable moments, like scaling the cliffs of Pointe du Hoc, or sniping at 
 German mortar crews from the top of a grain silo. The game paces itself so that you're always on 
 your toes, and you'll find yourself switching back and forth almost constantly from an offensive 
 position to making a defensive stand against counterattacks on the objective you've just captured. 
 Yes, at the end of the day you're still just shooting a lot of Nazis, but the constantly varying 
 contexts of how and why you're doing it keep the game compelling from start to finish. 
  
  
  Massive amounts of infantry can populate the battlefield. 
  You won't be participating in 
 these forays alone; far from it. In every setting you'll be surrounded by what seems like dozens 
 of soldiers, both friends and foes, who move and act in a realistic fashion. Lots of your artificially 
 intelligent mates will die by your side, along with the dozens of enemy soldiers you kill, but 
 more will come in from the rear echelons to take their place. The designers often do a good job 
 of reminding you that the war isn't just the infantry skirmish in which you're fighting. From time 
 to time you'll see planes engaged in dogfights flying overhead, or when you complete an objective 
 of capturing a German harbor, you'll call in a naval strike and see enemy merchant ships being 
 sunk at the docks. 
  
  In each confrontation, you'll find yourself setting up at logical stopping points to exchange fire 
 with German resistance. You can snipe dozens of enemies out of the windows and from the trenches 
 in front of a house, for example, but reinforcements replace them. It never feels as though the 
 game is cheaply spawning in more fodder for you; it just does a great job of making you feel like 
 there are a realistic number of soldiers holed up in a building. You need to get a feel for the 
 flow of each pitched battle, and this can be done by advancing your line when the enemy ranks look 
 thin enough, and then breaking into the house or bunker. Your allies will follow you in and help 
 you clear out the objective. Of course, if you're too meek at attacking and pressing your advantage, 
 the enemy AI is wily and aggressive enough to take charge. They're not afraid to pour fire on your 
 position and toss tons of grenades at you. Thankfully, a handy grenade danger indicator lets you 
 know when and where you have to scurry away from an impending blast. When you do die, the game 
 reloads very quickly, and you're even treated to a quote about war from various historical figures. 
 One that sticks out in our minds is an ironic one from Solomon Short: "The only winner in the War 
 of 1812 was Tchaikovsky." 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: child1
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jul 14, 2006 4:13 pm PT
Review:  COD 2 is one of my favorite games, mainly because it really brings me out there into the war scene. 
 The dramatic intensity of some of those battles like Pointe Du Hoc just cant be executed as well 
 as CoD 2 does when compared to other World War 2 games. The great graphics, the amazing sound, 
 and the overall atmosphere make Call of Duty a Great Sequel. Most sequels dont end up as well as 
 their predessecors, but Call of Duty 2 lands right next to the original. The Game is long enough 
 to make it worthwhile, and battles like El Alamein, Pointe Du Hoc, and Stalingrad, are truly represented 
 in a satisfying form. The only complaints i have of the game are that it tends to be a bit too 
 hard in some spots on the default difficulty, and the ending abruptly ends in a way i wish it had 
 not. But besides that, Call of Duty 2 makes up a great gaming experience. 
  
  The multiplayer aspect of the game is still good, but didnt strike me as well as the single player 
 game did. While the COD game elements are still there, the constant grenade lobbing and intense 
 fighting seems to go nowhere over time, and makes me want to shut the game off at certain times 
 as a result of boredom.
  
  However, this does not stop me from enjoying the game altogether. I feel that the single player 
 game is more important than the multiplayer overall, and that aspect works well for this game. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: axw3rm31
Rating: 8.9
Date: Feb 20, 2006 6:23 pm PT
Review:  WOW! wut a wwII game. and if that wont get devs to stop making them then i give up. lets start with 
 graphics. excelent even for a pc game. its not cool to see the wrinkles on all the guys faces though. audio 
 is un-believable. turn those speakers up to hear wind gun shots and forigen voices in great detail. the 
 vo isint bad either. gameplay is classic cod but it added awesome smoke and the ability to duck 
 under cover to regain ur health with no annoying life bars!! the multi is very good too.64 people 
 a round WOW! great game defanitly earns a 9.0. go pick this 1 up for pc or xbox 360 if ur into that.
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: jjj13
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 20, 2006 3:38 pm PT
Review:  This game is so much fun. Lets start out with the gameplay. It is loads of fun. 27 missions is 
 a great amount. The missions on veteran is great. I suggest going on normal first and work your 
 way up. Now that we have covered that, let's talk about the mutiplayer. The multiplayer is great. 
 Split screen is fun on a big screen so that it would be easy to stay fixed on your side of your 
 screen. The online is great when you could get in and there would be no lag. I hope you enjoyed 
 this reveiw and if you did, please suggest this review. Thanks!
  
  -John JJ 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: mech126
Rating: 9.7
Date: Feb 19, 2006 4:02 am PT
Review:  Call Of Duty 2 is an amazing FPS.
  The sounds during gameplay are simply remarkable, makes you feel like a battle is going on over 
 there while your still fighting over here. You can even hear the airplanes flying and crashing, 
 tanks shooting, soldiers screaming and much more for your World War needs.
  Graphics are nice with realistic facial expressions by your fellow soldiers.
  The Gameplay is 
 what stirs it all up, This is just more than just a Shoot em' up FPS your going to have to use 
 smoke grenades to hide from turrets, jump over some debri and such.
  
  Call Of Duty 2 is a definite must buy for FPS fans. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: flibblewerfer
Rating: 7.8
Date: Jun 7, 2006 8:01 pm PT
Review:  Call of Duty 2 is a good game, but not as good as the first to my opinion, not enough gore or anything. 
 Also they could have made the game a little more realistic
  
  Gameplay:
  The gameplay I thought wasn't that good, in every level there's an infinite amount of enemies, 
 so you can kill thousands upon thoussands... if you're really bored, and they'll keep coming. Unless 
 you kill every single person in an area, when you pass that area the enemies may stop coming for 
 a few minutes, but then they come from behind later on, in the worst situation. If every little 
 fight of the day in a huge war with 60 of these fights at once, then you'd be losing tens of thousands 
 of men a day, kind of too unrealistic for me. The guns are 100% accurate, seems a little unrealistic 
 to me. Also in real life, someone can't recover an armor piercing round through the head in 5 seconds, 
 and be able to fight... never mind taking 4 more to the head and dozens to the rest of the body.
 
  
  Graphics:
  The graphics I thought were great, good detail and lighting was great, which is why I gave it such 
 a high score, but also as I stated earlier, there's not enough gore, which makes the game seem 
 a little cheesy to me. In real life when you die of your whole body being engulfed in flames, maybe 
 your skin will begin to peel and bubble... but not here, after the guy died i went over to get 
 his gun and i noticed it was in mint condition. 
  
  Sound:
  The sound was great, I mean really great, it did make you seem like in a huge all-out war... in 
 a little street shoot-out that probably shouldn't make that much sound... but really, that's gameplay, 
 the sound was magnificent, very detaile and I also enjoyed the music, since they added it in for 
 the perfect times.
  
  Overall I think it was a goo game, though it was too unrealistic for me, I still enjoyed the game. 
 It's worth the money once it's about 40 or 50 dollars, but if you liked the first one, you'll love 
 this one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: VFA-102
Rating: 7.8
Date: Feb 17, 2006 2:31 pm PT
Review:  I hate to have to put down an almost perfect game, but, I must. The single player campaign is awesome, 
 but there are some minor glitches in your allies AI. Sometimes grenades will fall at the feet of 
 your fellow soldiers and they will duck, 3 feet from the grenade, and die. While this is a limited 
 problem, it does exist. I also find not being able to pick up and throw the enemies own grenades 
 back them slightly irritating. The main flaw though is multi-player. This is definitely a game 
 that should have more than 16 people playing at a time. The lag on the servers though is inexcusable. 
 I have rarely been able to play through a match and not have SERIOUS lag problems. About half of 
 the players in any match will leave because it gets waayy to laggy. DOA 4, PGR3, PDZ, never have 
 this huge problem. While I have encountered lag problems on these games, never to the extent of 
 CD2. For those reasons, CD2 is so close, yet so far, from being a perfect game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: warmack1
Rating: 8.8
Date: Feb 17, 2006 2:19 pm PT
Review:  Call of Duty 2 is a beautiful looking game and plays very well. The missions are solid with your 
 enemies having good A. I. . The game is not overly hard because you can retreat and find cover to 
 get your health back, as it is, there is no heath meter Ala Halo 2. Call of Duty 2 is a relatively 
 short game, only about 10 to 12 hours. Although what there is of the game it is very addictive 
 and nice diversity in game play ranging from standard fps style shooting to tank missions and escorts. 
 There is a nice use of the A. I. as you will repeatedly use smoke grenades to cover your self and 
 your unit to advance past of to the enemy, and looks great too with the volumetric smoke. Call 
 of Duty 2 is a system hog so be sure you have a nice rig to handle the frame rates needed to have 
 solid game play. The multiplayer is alittle above average at best, definitely not as good as the 
 other fps's out there ( BF2, Far cry, UT2004, ect. ) and does not live up to the first installment 
 of the series in that department. But all in all this is a very solid fps for sure worth the buy, 
 but if you are looking for a lot of replay ability as a prerequisite to buy the you might want 
 to stick to BF2 because the multiplayer is light years better than COD 2. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zeustitan
Rating: 8.8
Date: Feb 17, 2006 11:37 am PT
Review:  well what can i say.. the best fps game i have played, the gameplay was wonder ful, it was more 
 like ur in a movie playing with all the other soliders, well the title in the origional call of 
 duty that "NO ONE FIGHTS THE WAR ALONE" has brought a different kind of trend in the fps war game 
 which is quiet amazing and wonderful to play,
  the different campaign which u play during the game you will find that most of the scenes hav been 
 taken from the super hit block buters like "SAVING PVT RYAN" i especially like that part the beganing 
 of the american campain, it also have a little touch of ENEMY AT THE GATES in the russian campaingn, 
 in short its a must buy game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: oreilly
Rating: 9.1
Date: Feb 17, 2006 10:12 am PT
Review:  I thought they nailed it wih the first COD, but when COD 2 came out I was equally impressed. Infinity 
 Ward outdid themselves by improving sound, graphics and AI tomake an even better WWII shooter.
 
  
  Maybe its just me, but I like WWII shooters. I like the pace. I like the realism. I like the historiocal 
 significance. COD is simply the best one out there.
  
  The graphics are fantastic. Smoke, fire and other organic tectures look amazing. The bets part 
 for me was the performance on my mediocre desktop (1.3 gh) .
  
  Add in the great sound effects and technical gameplay, and this PC FPS is stunning and fun. Get 
 it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stangsaleen2000
Rating: 9.2
Date: Feb 14, 2006 6:36 pm PT
Review:  At first when I played the demo on the 360 many many times, I thought of this game as nothing new 
 and just another first-person shooter. When I got this game as a gift I played it and realized 
 I was wrong... greatly. This game has some of the best WW2 renactment I ever seen. I know that 
 I wasn't in WW2 and that I have never meet a WW2 veteran that was on the ground. I still think 
 that this game puts you into the action the best. If your going to play this game then you need 
 to play it on hard. The challenge makes this game more fun and gives you something to work for. 
 The beginning starts out with the wonderful Soviet Union and has you in training. Then you get 
 to go into the action and see that this time it's a little different cause the A. I. isn't mindless 
 and you kind of feel like your teammates are actually doing something this time. The Soviet campaign 
 is just like the first game, but it does end quick and then you move on to the better part of the 
 game. The British campaign has most of the best levels. You feel like your actually in a battle 
 this time since your not always the superhuman of the battle. There are sometimes that the feeling 
 does come around, but not always. Then comes the best campaign. The American campaign has the most 
 challenge and the best battles. The only real problem with the game is the ending. It kind of throws 
 it out there that the game is over and the last level feels like the battles in Europe that meant 
 nothing to the rest of the war. Overall if your a first-person shooter fan then don't miss this 
 game, if not... I would say that this game wouldn't change your mind. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: havokmaster
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 14, 2006 12:49 pm PT
Review:  Call Of Duty 2 for the PC is as realistic as it can get. An original campaign mode introducing 
 many new elements for the first time in the series, and an even better online multiplayer.
  
  The single player campaign mode has you fight as 3 different allied forces, the Russians, the 
 British and the Americans. You will fight in different enviorenments such as the snowy Stalingrad, 
 dusty Matmata, and of course in France, particularly Normandy.
  
  On easy, the campaign will take you no more than 10 hours, but the fun lies in the veteran difficulty 
 setting. This is on par with Halo's legendary mode, and really add's extra, well needed, lifespan 
 to the game.
  
  In the multiplayer you have virtually all the weapons used in the SP mode, and the MP can be very 
 addictive, especially on a 60 player server.
  
  If you have a PC that can run this game, get it... it's worth it... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shadowofamn1
Rating: 6.8
Date: Feb 14, 2006 9:06 am PT
Review:  CoD2 lacks any improvement other than the graphics, even on pc little change seen. XBOX 360 CoD2 
 graphic is awsome but NOT IN PC, you can tune your graphic to max but you will see problem later.
 
  
  Gameplay is the same, new missions, some new items and all you do is do your objective while trying 
 to survive. Smoke grenade is a good addition only if it doesnt lag you so bad that I have to put 
 my display back to medium quality. It is called the LAG GRENADE. On the other hand there is my 
 tank action in the game. Multiplayer is like most other shooting game, nothing to comment here.
 
  
  Graphic is not as good as XBOX 360 and with the smoke grenade its hard to keep visual at high quality.
 
  
  Sounds are mostly recycle from CoD1 with some new sounds for the new weapons and some missions.
 
  
  CoD2 still cost in the 40~50s, not a good game to buy unless you want for multiplayer purposes. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ghost2138
Rating: 6.8
Date: Feb 13, 2006 5:49 pm PT
Review:  In some ways, games that fall short of realizing their full potential are that much more disappointing 
 than games that are simply bad. You know the ones: those that have the pedigree, the power of the 
 predecessor, the ones that nothing should be wrong with, and yet somehow there is. It's games like 
 "Master of Orion 2," which, instead of simply expanding on the original's brilliant formula, buried 
 us in even more numbers, variables, and stats that needed tracking; games like "Knights of the 
 Old Republic 2," which, instead of wrapping up the story -- or at least advancing it to a more 
 logical conclusion -- left gaping holes in the plot, confusing the player rather than bringing 
 about a satisfying resolution to the story. Sadly, "Call of Duty 2" can be grouped with games like 
 these, but not because it fails miserably in any department -- far from it. What's so thoroughly 
 frustrating about "Call of Duty 2" is just that: it does everything almost right.
  
  Before we get down to the brass tacks, let's get one thing out of the way: "Call of Duty 2" is 
 not a bad game. If anything, its production values are some of the most polished work that's hit 
 the market in quite some time. The audio-visual presentation the game sports is a veritable masterpiece. 
 Those blessed with a powerful gaming rig and a DirectX 9.0 capable video card that can hold its 
 own against the onslaught of self-shading models, particle and weather effects, and nauseatingly 
 high polygon counts will find themselves in a visceral, brutal Hell that manages to look absolutely 
 stunningly gorgeous. The various visual bells and whistles, particularly on the Pointe-du-Hoc missions, 
 are staggering in their near-realism, and these visuals are only further complimented by an excellent 
 music score and expertly recorded sound effects. The dialog is well-delivered and never ham-fisted 
 or corny (fitting, since "Call of Duty 2"'s goal is recreating at least some of the realism of 
 a World War 2 battlefield) , and the sound effects, especially when piped through a good pair of 
 speakers and a subwoofer, will set your teeth on edge. All in all, the game is lacking very little, 
 if anything at all, in the presentation department.
  
  That, unfortunately, is where the game's strong points end. Everything else about the game projects 
 the same feeling a "Combat!" rerun does -- intriguing and quirky, but only for that archaeological, 
  experience. For the most part, the game's flow and progression 
 feel like a sort of Frankenstein monster, sewn together out of the best bits and pieces of games 
 like "Brothers in Arms," the prequel "Call of Duty" and its expansion, and the half-dozen "Medal 
 of Honors" out there. Perhaps the setting is partially to blame. World War II did, in fact, become 
 such a popular motif for game makers that there's hardly a genre, except maybe adventure and puzzle 
 games, in which there isn't at least one World War II-themed game. There is no logical flow or 
 progression to the missions, as you are thrown first into the battle of Moscow in 1941, then the 
 battle of Stalingrad in 1943, then El Alamein, then D-Day, then Western Germany. Non-player characters 
 with the beginnings of personalities appear for short intervals, but these glimpses of personality 
 are so fleeting as to make virtually no impact on the player. A pity, really, considering some 
 of them, especially the kilt-wearing Scotsman Private McGregor, would be far, far more interesting 
 if properly fleshed out. When pitted against 2003's superb "Vietcong," this is a huge point against 
 "Call of Duty 2." "Vietcong" showed us that having a persistent squad that can take care of itself 
 as well as the player makes a huge difference on the battlefield, as you not only get to command 
 your squadmates -- you get to depend on them. In "Call of Duty 2," you depend on no one but yourself. 
 The AI-controlled allies are mostly useless, even though they occasionally exhibit what appears 
 to be bits and pieces of unscripted intelligence, such as taking cover or flanking an enemy. Most 
 of the work will be done by you, and the game suffers from it, as it prevents the suspension of 
 disbelief even further.
  
  The missions themselves in "Call of Duty 2" are even less so exciting, and all of them have a "been 
 there, done that" feel. There's the "tutorial cleverly disguised as a real battle" mission, the 
 "kill every enemy on the map" mission, the "sniper" mission, and everyone's favorite, the "take 
 the building and hold it for a set period of time" mission. In fact, the game frequently relies 
 on repetition, forcing you to play through missions that are different in presentation but remarkably 
 identical in content, making you do a double-take and go: "Huh? Haven't we just done this like 
 five minutes ago?" All of the missions have a contrived heroic quality to them, and although it 
 has long been established that "Call of Duty" is shooting less for historical accuracy and more 
 for cinematic presentation similar to films like "Commandoes Strike at Dawn" and "Guns of Navarone" 
 it still feels trivialized.
  
  A few changes with the user interface and the heads-up display don't help either. Gone is the health 
 bar of yore, replaced by a Halo-esque "shield." Take enough hits, and your screen will start to 
 flash red. At this point you should take cover for a few seconds, at which point, your health will 
 be restored. Issues of realism aside, this makes the game ridiculously easy at places without fundamentally 
 changing the way the game is played. The save system has also been overhauled, perhaps to accommodate 
 the XBox 360 release more, with the Quick Save feature permanently replaced with save points. Granted, 
 these save points are frequent and seamless, but the principle of it is still offensive. If you 
 drop $50 (or, in the case of the X360 version $60) on a game, you should save wherever you damn 
 well please, not where the developers think you should. It's not a major issue, but it's irritating 
 enough to turn someone off to the game even more.
  
  The game's multiplayer suite is a functional, if somewhat simple, addition to the single-player 
 campaign. There is, of course, no cooperative play -- something that's almost a standard these 
 days. The multiplayer itself is fairly standard-fare, and those who were expecting vehicular combat 
 to remain intact from "United Offensive" are advised to look elsewhere, as it was removed. Overall, 
 if you are looking for a strong multiplayer component and your computer has the cojones to run 
 "Call of Duty 2" with all the visual doodads intact, you're advised to pass this one and go straight 
 to "Battlefield 2." 
  
  Overall, there's plenty to like about "Call of Duty 2," the presentation making up the most significant 
 chunk of the game's appeal. However, those interested in a more profound World War II experience, 
 or those simply looking for more depth and impact from their shooter are going to find themselves 
 cheated out of their hard-earned $50 by this one. Definitely grab it, but not until you can get 
 it used or cheap. Or both.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: rbur16
Rating: 6
Date: Feb 13, 2006 4:03 pm PT
Review:  so ive had a long time to sit with this game now. dont get me wrong im a huge fan of the series. 
 COD and COD: UO were really fun. i expected something different from COD2. sure the visuals are 
 improved..... thats about it. its all downhill from here. most people will look past the games enormous 
 short comings and praise its graphics and sound. the biggest let down is that the game itself is 
 flat out boring. the levels are not fun. the COD series seems to lean toward historically accurate 
 battles...... but in the old medal of honor you were in the towns, on the battleships in the sub 
 pens off in an african jungle or town. COD2 offers no variety. all you basically do is kill infantry 
 blow up a tank here and there and youre done. as everyone knows the regenerating health is an issue. 
 an issue that allowed me to blow through the game in about 8 hours. sure i could always go back 
 and play again with the difficulty bumped up but the levels are just not fun. everyone here is 
 so gung-ho about this game that my review will probably say recommended by 0 out of 100000 users. 
 but guess what, aside from the sound and graphics this game just isnt fun and the makers have not 
 given the gamers anything new. multi player on the other hand would be the only reason to own this 
 game because the single player campaign is far from memorable. none of the levels seemed to stand 
 out. it is inevitable that an expansion pack will soon be coming and probably call of duty 3..... so 
 can we please get a game with a little more diversity in its levels and objectives. i feel like 
 im playing the same game over and over. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dyvasey
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 13, 2006 2:36 pm PT
Review:  World War II shooters are everywhere. There have been good ones; There have been bad ones, but 
 none of them can offer as much as Call of Duty 2. For starters, Call of Duty 2 has incredible graphics. 
 Characters faces' are highly detailed, weapons look realistic, smoke grenades are just plain sweet; 
 The list goes on and on. Sometimes glitches an occur, like when a dead German's foot sticks through 
 a wall, but its not a serious problem. Obviously, Call of Duty's graphics alone do not make it 
 an excellent game, but the incredible, intense gameplay does. The game continuously sticks you 
 into the oven. Scenes include: charging across an open field against German machine gunners at 
 Pointe du Hoc, escaping from an occupied German town in Africa in and armored car with only two 
 other soldiers, and more. By putting you through 3 campaigns, the game also allows you to experience 
 different parts of the war from different perspectives. And instead of forcing you to waste time 
 looking for medpacs, the game has a subtle "Halo-esque" healing system. Call of Duty has a great 
 orchestral soundtrack, unfortunately, it isn't used much. However, the weapon effects and chatter 
 from fellow soldiers sound nice, although the chatter gets repetitive later on. As if the sweet 
 single player wasn't enough, COD2 also has a great, if not ground-breaking multiplayer. It has 
 multiple modes online and is pretty balanced and will allow for the game to be fun for hours after 
 you "beat it." If you enjoy WWII shooters in any way, you should have Call of Duty 2. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jimboryno
Rating: 9.3
Date: Feb 13, 2006 6:13 am PT
Review:  After finishing both Call of Duty (One) and its expansion, I was looking forward at taking on the 
 newest version of Activision's Call of Duty...
  
  Putting you in the shoes of some of the brave fighters in midst of World War 2, one genuinely gets 
 the real feel of what those people feeling. Specially with extreme graphical detail. Just to see 
 bullits flying over and around your head!!! Really makes it a stunning war game. Perhaps the best 
 ever!!! Seeing people die for their countries makes you wonder why on earth did all this really 
 happen. Was it for fame or for the love of their country?
  
  Perhaps it was both... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: banafor1988
Rating: 9.2
Date: Feb 12, 2006 3:46 pm PT
Review:  This game has all the great things from the first game plus many more. I do have to say that taking 
 the vehicles out of mp sucks, but somone will eventually mod it so they can be used, and then it 
 will be all right. What impresses me the most is the fact that such a new game even runs on my 
 pc. I have pretty slow machine, it being a celeron 2.5 with a pci geforce 5500 video card, but 
 the game runs great with all the special effects on, although at 800*600. It runs constant 50 fps 
 except on infantry rushes and inside smoke grenade's smoke where it drops to like 10 fps. The action 
 is always quick and realistic, and the multiplayer portion is great except, as I said before, for 
 the lack of vehicles.
  In conclusion, its a great game that any first person shooter lover should get, even if they don't 
 have a top of the line pc. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: joelhole
Rating: 9.7
Date: Feb 12, 2006 12:32 pm PT
Review:  BEST~ shooter/war/multiplayer game ever
  if u dont belive me buy it now
  i reccomend it on computer b. c most people have internet on their comp. and not xbox
  and its 
 just better (my oppinion)
  
  i love this game so much ever since i got it im addicted
  First of all Good graphics
  Great sound exspecialy when in war
  Great guns
  Best gameplay 
 and story ever!!!!@! EVER!
  
  I love the multiplayer best multiplayer ever
  MEET NEW PEOPLE THEN KILL THEM!
  how great multiplayer is sooooo goood
  Not to brag but i own 
 at it too :)
  
  Anyone that does not have this game needs to buy it like right now
   props to this game!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: LordRandom
Rating: 8.6
Date: Feb 11, 2006 11:43 pm PT
Review:  Its a sin to play this game as it revives a terrible nightmare in history. However, it is down 
 right patriotic. It is totally immersive. Better than the first one, CoD2 allows you to fight the 
 war in more significant places of ww2 history. Its weapons feels a little more accurate than the 
 first one. Its cut scenes are also dramatic. However, its AI is still weak. Its physics is neither 
 great. It is not possible to see blood repelling off the enemies' body after gunning them down. 
 However, the smoke is truly worth admiring. Textures are pretty life-like, but nothing new. Gameplay 
 can get boring in single player as its mission is very linear and straight forward. In mulitplayer 
 wise, this game doesn't match up to more successful Mulitplayer FPS. All in all, this game has 
 a dramatic gameplay and story which is possible to encourage anyone to play its missions again 
 and again. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xthric3x
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 11, 2006 10:15 am PT
Review:  The Best WWII game i have ever played. The Graphics are amazing. The game-play makes you feel as 
 if your there in Europe fighting against the reign of Hitler with your fellow soldiers. It doesn't 
 take you that long to get use to the controls either. And the difficulty is just right not to hard 
 for the beginners, and definitely not to hard for the hardcore veteran players out there. And you 
 could really play the multi-player all day without stopping to take a piss. The levels are amazing 
 from Stalingrad all the way to El Alamein. And playing from the Russians, and trying to fight against 
 the enemy forces in Russia. To taking out Africa with the British. And then fighting in the most 
 bloody battle D-Day as the Americans. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: _OKO_
Rating: 9.2
Date: Feb 11, 2006 3:58 am PT
Review:  Call of Duty was an extremely succesful shooter by Infinity Ward. 
  The Game was renouned for it's gameplay and relaism. The first game left you fighting in Russia- 
 against the Axis War Force, this game continues from where you left off. 
  
  You play as three different characters, a Russian, A Brit and an American, and understandably the 
 Game gets harder with every mission you progress in. 
  You will fight in some very well known Battles; you will really feel like you are taking a part 
 in the War yourself. 
  The Game is very pretty to look at, if your PC has a good enough specification, the effects of 
 Grenades blowing up, Bullets firing and the way everything looks is just incredible. The Environments 
 are incredible; truly authentic, you'll be running through French Villages shooting aimlessly at 
 Germans in the pouring Rain and Mist, it's that incredible. And the Sound used in the game is so 
 authentic it really does feel like your in the War- the Guns sound incredible- the sounds of the 
 Weather, and people's speech are just awesome. 
  
  One little niggle I do have with the game is that; the Game starts to become empty and repetive 
 in the Middle on Occassions; it simply is a case that you are overpowering the German's, and your 
 simply walking all over them, but that eventually subsides and it becomes a challenging game again. 
 
  
  You won't be playing the Story Mode for too long, if you really try you can get it done easily 
 in one full day, but then again- when that experience has finished, you always still have the Multiplayer.
 
  
  The Multiplayer is alot of fun to be playing if you ever get bored of killing Germans in the Game, 
 you can go online and pick whoever you want to be, you can participate in Team Deathmatch, Capture 
 The Flag, Headquarters- there are lots of modes that will keep you entertained online for a long, 
 long time.
  
  Call of Duty 2 is a masterpiece in it's own way. It has outranked The Medal of Honour series on 
 two occassions now; and offers a new, fresh experience to the World War gaming front, now what 
 I would like to see is a World War I game from Infinity Ward... 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: eternal_dragon0
Rating: 9.8
Date: Feb 10, 2006 10:45 pm PT
Review:  Graphics: 9/10
  The graphics are a little disappointing, considering the time of release. But the experience can 
 still be thrilling and the choppy graphics could be actually enhancing the effect of a WWII fighter. 
 Compared to MOHAA (Medal of Honor Allied Assault) , the graphics aren't much improved, so if you 
 didn't like MOHAA, you most likely wouldn't like COD2.
  Sound: 10/10
  The sound's great, complete with all the explosions, surround sound, and stutter of gunfire. Very 
 realistic and no lag. No complaints in this department.
  Gameplay: 10/10
  Now here's where COD2 excels. It's objectives usually allow a few ways to tackle a problem, especially 
 if it's a large battleground. So instead of games such as MOHAA, where there's only 1 single way 
 to complete a stage, COD2 offers slight deviations from the "original" plan. Another great feature 
 of COD2 is the ability for you to pick up fallen comrades or enemies' weapons. So if you don't 
 like the weapons you're assigned, all you have to do is kill an enemy sniper and take his gun! 
 Also, the guns are very different and have special traits, so this keeps the fun going after the 
 initial excitement wears off.
  
  The bad
  There is one annoying thing about COD2 that isn't too realistic. If you keep on talking to your 
 teamates at a position where there is continuous enemy fire, such as a blockade or mounted machine 
 gun, your team will eventually run into the line of fire. Normally, you'd think you're left alone 
 or only with a secondary backup team. However, you'd find that there is an UNLIMITED number of 
 reinforcements!!! I find that this takes the realism away somewhat.
  
  The good
  There are very different difficulty settings. This allows new players to really get the hang of 
 the game, and also give a challenge to the best FPS player out there. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SpartanAD01
Rating: 9.9
Date: Feb 10, 2006 8:10 pm PT
Review:  this is definetely one of the best shooter games of all time. everything about this game is excellent.
 
  
  the sound, the graphics & the realism are all good. watch out for smokes though (they literally 
 go everywhere!) . the AI is superb. they will use squad tactics & pay FULL attention (or at least 
 try) to everything. the missions are are tough, but not really really repetative (unlike some other 
 games)
  
  (props to Infinity Ward)
  
  just to save your time I'll end it right here. to find more info, play the demo or go to the official 
 website.
  
  thx for readin my review 
::::::

::::::
UserName: usmansm
Rating: 8.7
Date: Feb 10, 2006 2:02 am PT
Review:  When I started playing CoD 2 I thought to myself, Wow such nice graphics and the sound have certainly 
 improved compared to Cod 1. But when I finished the single player campaign came I was a tad disappointed. 
 I mean this game was quite short compared to Cod. I know things have improved but certainly more 
 missions would have been nice.
  
  The game is addicting as ever and you feel as if you are in a middle of a war and you sort start 
 caring for even your computer controlled characters. The voice work has improved greatly as well. 
 The smoke and fire effects have greatly improved and the smoke grenade option is quite cool. The 
 graphics engine hasnt change much but that doesnt mean they havent got better. I only wish there 
 was more variety on the missions as most of them are on foot.
  
  All in all this is a great game and for anyone looking for a war based FPS shooter. They should 
 not look any further.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Animal_Cracker
Rating: 9.7
Date: Feb 9, 2006 7:18 am PT
Review:  In Call of Duty 2 you play as 4 different soldiers from 3 different countries in famous World War 
 II battles. You experience being a Russian Private defending the borders of your motherland, an 
 American Corporal storming the beaches of Europe and a British Sergeant fighting to retake Egypt 
 for the Common Wealth. You will even experience being a Commander of a British Crusader tank as 
 you battle it out with German Panzer tanks in Libya.
  
  You are accompanied by your fellow troops throughout the game and you must depend on them as they 
 must depend on you. The A. I. of your comrades is amazing. They will cover you when you need to 
 advance, they will yell out if there is a grenade which is too close for comfort or if there is 
 a Jerry hiding on the left side of that broken wall. 
  
  The German A. I. doesn't slack off either. They will find the best cover available to them and shoot 
 at you with precision. If you do not find cover yourself you're as good as dead within seconds. 
 This game is best experienced in Veteran difficulty where it doesn't take much to kill you so you 
 must rely on any and all cover and your fellow soldiers to get through this war alive.
  
  Overall this Call of Duty 2 is THE best war FPS game I have ever play and would recommend it for 
 WWII game junkies and FPS lovers alike. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: aliens1234
Rating: 9.3
Date: Feb 9, 2006 4:56 am PT
Review:  CoD2 captures the intensity of combat in WWII more closely than anything to date. Considering how 
 many WWII shooters there have been, CoD2 needed to be right on song to make an impression, and 
 so it did.
  
  When compared to the original, the first thing that can be noticed is the graphical improvements. 
 Characters and landscape are looking far more realistic now with improved texture quality and HDR 
 lighting (looking especially cool on a certain British mission involving lightning) . The effects 
 of bullets hitting walls and shells landing is incredible along with the sound to go with it. With 
 a 5.1 system set up, the game becomes even more immersive with the best sounds for weapon fire 
 and explosions since forever.
  
  Certain gameplay elements have been changed, most notably, the removal of the health bar. Instead 
 you are left to find cover once your screen is bloodied up enough until such a time as your vision 
 has cleared. This provides a slightly more realistic approach when compared to using health packs.
 
  
  One criticism that could be made is that maybe the game has not come far enough from its predecessor. 
 When compared to United Offensive (expansion pack to CoD) gameplay elements have in fact been stripped 
 down. There are no deployable machine guns and you are unable to cook grenades (most frustrating 
 on MP) . In addition the multiplayer feature is without vehicles that made UO so great to play online.
 
  
  That said there is no way a right-minded person would even think of playing CoD over its sequel. 
 The mulitplayer levels have been designed better than the previous installment and has recreated 
 some of the CoD favourites like the Brecourt map.
  
  In terms of difficulty, there is a large gap between the different settings so anyone can play 
 from noobs to experts. The game is easy to understand and takes no time to get to grips with.
 
  
  All in all this game is the best WWII shooter to date and kicks the living daylights out of the 
 console versions (big red one) . Arguably it is one of the best shooters of all time and I suggest 
 that you buy it if you haven't already. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Fire_Fly
Rating: 9.1
Date: Feb 7, 2006 12:53 pm PT
Review:  
  Call of Duty 2 is simply put, one of the most immersing FPS around. It deals plenty of action in 
 a brilliant setting, WWII games keep coming but if this is anything to show for the future they 
 wont get old for a while.
  
  You play as three different nations. The Soviet will be fighting in the USSR, the USA fighting 
 in France/Germany and the British who spend most of their time in Africa. While these locations 
 offer something else to look at the action remains similar throughout. That action being in your 
 face, loud, bloody and very intense.
  
  The game mechanics don't really chage the genre much, all the normal stuff is here but it is the 
 way it is delivered that makes this game so fun. Whether is be hiding in a sandy trench, crouching 
 behind a mound of snow or peering through a broken window there are always enemies to be killed 
 and they are always thinking of ways to kill you.
  
  There are some great set pieces in this game. Climbing a cliff in France being the most memorable 
 but driving tanks through Africa or the demolition of a Nazi strong hold in USSR. While this game 
 doesn't deliver the set pieces like D-Day it makes up for it by having consistantly great fighting 
 and scenery all through the game. The UK Africa fighting is good but the most forgetable (thankfully 
 they do get a trip to Europe) . The Soviet fighting is some of the best but because it is the first 
 few levels of the game that you play as them the weapons aren't that good. The USA fighting is 
 probably the best, storming (and holding) Hill 400 and Sniping Mortars from the top of a grain 
 Silo being some of the best bits.
  Well actually the best bits of this game are the "bog-standard" fighting that is in all FPS, nothing 
 can beat the feeling of smoking out a barn then letting the bullets fly in the confusion.
  
  Of course this game isn't perfect. The AI (which is great on the most part) can act a bit weird 
 at times. Like in Russia when your TEN comrades let you clear out a building on your own. Or if 
 you are lining up your aim with a distant enemie your comrades sometin=me walk into view just as 
 you shoot. BANG. Dead mate and the enemie is still alive.
  Also you can get lost sometimes as your teammates stay still till you make an advance, giving you 
 no clue of where to go next.
  The biggest problem has to be the scenery. While on the whole it is GREAT and very nice to look 
 at, it just feels a bit static. You can destroy plates and wine bottles, thats about it. The worst 
 thing is that fact that things like tables can stop rockets. HOPEFULLY by the next game things 
 like WOOD and MESH FENCES will not be a ble to stop bullets as when you see guys hiding behind 
 tables which manage to stop bullets it is laughable.
  Another problem is the frame rate, on the whole it is consistant but the smoke effects will KILL 
 mid end machines. Have 1gb of RAM before you play because otherwise the Smoke Grenade will become 
 your worst enemy (even though it is a VERY useful weapon in reality)
  
  Gameplay
  Consistanly briliant throughout
  Graphics
  Very detailed but wont push the system too far so 
 even mid/high PC's can handle it. Unfortunatley the use of a smoke grenade will kill mid end machines.
 
  Sound
  Great effect and the banta between your comrades is useful as well as entertaining
  Value
  The campaign is pretty short but this game BEGS to be played through on a higher difficulty.
 
  
  On the whole a GREAT game worth a purchse by everybody who has a PC that can play it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: telos182
Rating: 9.4
Date: Feb 7, 2006 12:40 pm PT
Review:  I say like so many others but thats not really a bad thing, I like them all for the most part. 
 
  
  I really find the historical information at the start of each mission very interesting, I wish 
 more games did a better job with it though. I like the history channel and war channels so when 
 they incorporate things of that nature I love it. I just wish it was a little more extensive.
 
  
  You will need a good PC to play it in DX9 mode, however DX7 is still a great looking experience. 
 And just in case there was any doubt this game is best played on PC (not xbox360) you will need 
 the faster/more accurate mouse and keyboard over a controller. Plus with my new Nvidia 7800 it 
 looks better with a higher res. then the xbox360 could ever hope for.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: MasterMind2006
Rating: 9.1
Date: Feb 7, 2006 7:27 am PT
Review:  This is a totally awesome game!!! The singleplayer rocks and is accually not too short like other 
 games. The multyplayer isn't he best but it's good enough to give the adrenaline pump. 
  The graphics and sound.. superb!! The best sound I've ever heard and some of the best graphics. 
 This game can even run @50 FPS with 1200x1024 and all high texture qualitys on my Radeon 9200. 
 This game is awesome!
  There are three campaigns which offer lots of variety to the game. My favorite were the Russain 
 missions, but there all totally awesome. The difficulty just perfect, the first time through i 
 could beat the game on hard/veteran from there on i had more fun on regular. Very intense game! 
 The game only needs more replayability, it doesnt have much of it, but it's still a great game! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: skyyfox1
Rating: 8.7
Date: Feb 7, 2006 2:21 am PT
Review:  I really enjoyed this game. I have both the xbox 360 and pc versions of the game. you might be 
 wondering which one is better. well it depends on what kind of pc you have, and what kind of controls 
 you like. if you have a radeon x800 or better, or a geforce 6 series or better, then the pc version 
 will run very nicely. I play the pc version with mouse and keyboard because that's what i like. 
 this game starts off as an fps, but it gets better. there are a ton of different things you can 
 do in this game. it follows ww2 history pretty nicely, starting off in france and going through 
 north africa. the variety of things you can do in this game is what appeals to me. you can use 
 your binoculars to direct artillery fire, you can drive a tank. everyone loves to drive tanks. 
 this game has a well made multi-player mode as well. you can fight the germans on a real battlefield 
 and kick their butts! multi-player is comparable to a game like quake 4, or countertrike source. 
 it is alot of fun. if you are a beginner though, it will take some practice to get good at it. 
 don't give up though, it only takes some practice. pretty soon you will be killing germans left 
 and right. of course you can play as a german as well, and kill americans, if that's your thing. 
 all in all, this is a great game for those ww2 buffs out there, and for those that just want some 
 good old shootem up action. is is pretty easy so those of you who want an easy game to play, this 
 is for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Arc_Angel2k4
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 6, 2006 2:33 pm PT
Review:  I loved this game the graphics are on par with some of the best games of 2005. The weapon selection 
 is modest and missions are fun but leave you wanting an expansion pack more. The godlike feeling 
 is new to most FPS because you always have to worrie about life well in COD2 you dont. I love the 
 crusader tanks in the British campaine and your team actually say things that help. Smoke effect 
 is awsome and the grenades work. The sounds are fun and the game is not vesicle relyent. The good 
 points are sound, Gameplay, Graphics and Value. The bad is the multiplayer its fun but not very 
 friendly if you want good online multiplayer play Counter Strike Source or Halflife2 Deathmatch. 
 Do not get me wrong the multiplayer is great if you good at the game but it will take some adjustmen. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sasan552
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 6, 2006 11:01 am PT
Review:  It's the best game of WW2 in all times.
  If you liked the original Call of Duty, then you're sure to enjoy the sequel, which 
  stays true 
 to the strengths of its predecessor.
  Excellent presentation; aggressive enemy ai; makes you really feel like a small part of a bigger 
 war; varied campaign; fun multiplayer
  If you liked the original Call of Duty, then you're sure to enjoy the sequel, which stays true 
 to the strengths of its predecessor.
  The Good: Excellent presentation; aggressive enemy ai; makes you really feel like a small part 
 of a bigger war; varied campaign; fun multiplayer 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MasterX-slo
Rating: 8.9
Date: Feb 6, 2006 5:12 am PT
Review:  COD2 is great, I mean the Multi-Player Is great, You can never get tired of it The Single-Player 
 campaign is rather short but great, but the shame is that in all of the Call of duty games, there 
 is no German Campaign, I hope there will be one in COD3. So when you start playing this game you 
 see that this game is the greatest game of all-time. But when you go online, there you will se 
 a bunch of Pwned N00Bs that i owned. So when you go play online look for me MasterX, and i'm goona 
 pwn you. In the single-player campaign 
  I know that most of you is gonna start with easy, so that's good so that first of all you can see 
 how good the game is. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cod2expert
Rating: 9.2
Date: Feb 5, 2006 3:03 pm PT
Review:  This game is great! If you'r looking for a good fps call of duty 2 is the one you want to buy! 
 The graphics are great but could be a little better. The buy this game buy it!!! buy it!! The online 
 play is great it is the best thing about this game! Really good game!! BUY IT!! BUY IT!!! BUY IT 
 !!!! BUY IT!!! 
  
  I would have like to have seen more american missions, but other than that it was ok thats pretty 
 much the only dissapointment with this game. In the online play i would have like to have seen more 
 types of matchs you could play in stead of just capture the flag and team deathmatch and deathmatch 
 and search and destroy and headquarters. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sontian
Rating: 9.8
Date: Feb 5, 2006 11:58 am PT
Review:  Call of Duty 2 is an extremely good gam. Its 27 Single player missions spanning 3 campaigns makes 
 the life time of the game pretty damn long, longer for some that wish to challenge a harder option 
 of single player.
  
  To top the great single player playing, the online is excelent, I would freely call the online 
 Call of Duty 2 'perfect' except that there is not a patch containing Punk Buster for the game yet. 
 This means people are able to use certain hacks and ruin the online gameplay. Even so, the game 
 is outstanding, all over the internet there is leagues and tourniments you can join. Clan leagues 
 or simple one on one leagues.
  
  I would call Call of Duty 2 the best PC war game out at this time, so what other rate can you give 
 the best?
  
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  
  If you do not have this game, I strongy advise you to consider buying it, if you are not sure about 
 it, borrow it from a friend and give it a go. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: royvanderhoorn
Rating: 9.4
Date: Feb 5, 2006 9:48 am PT
Review:  The Call of Duty series has blown away the Medal Of Honor series with ease. But why is CoD so much 
 better? Is it just the graphics, or is simply the gameplay much deeper than MoH???
  
  If you've played the first mission of either Cod 1 or 2, you'll probably know the answer. The realism 
 is at first say awesome. People around you screaming for help or some supressing fire. The enemy 
 who will try to flank you and try to be smarter than you in CoD 2. It's very hard for a FPS to 
 innovate, as in great lines all War games are basically the same. But what CoD make different is 
 the experience after you've played the single player story line. You will get the feeling that 
 you're not alone, as your allies try to beat the enemy as well. Only - is that the allies keep 
 coming no matter how many have died, they keep respawning behind your back. In CoD you will have 
 to move in, as the enemy will do everything to protect the areas they have taken. If you want to 
 enjoy the full CoD I suggest you get a real good graphics Card, if not, you will lose the full 
 excitement of the game. I played this game with my Radeon 9800 PRO, but it dind't really stand 
 out that much at high resolution. The sound of the game is reallly good, especially when you've 
 got a 5.1 or higher speakerset (A) . You will really get the feeling that you are in the war, and 
 if some of you're compagnions die, I felt the loss, but on the other hand they did return after 
 10 sec, they just respawnd ... :S. Gameplay hasn't changed much only that you're life bar has been 
 replaced for a red glow around the screen that suggest you get cover if you don't want you're ass 
 blown off. They say that the lineair gameplay has lowered, but in fact it's still quite lineair, 
 only the feeling that you only can go one way has been lowered. The multiplayer is back of course, 
 and better than ever. A better tactic is needed in the multiplayer, as your aim has to be much 
 better than CoD 1. The online modes are still the same, only the flag mode has been renewed, and 
 works fine. It's really fun to play online, and it raises the replay very much. In overall, this 
 game rocks, 1 of the best games of this year. Highly recommended! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hellmen21
Rating: 9.1
Date: Feb 4, 2006 10:29 pm PT
Review:  We all know that in the meat of the FPS genre that the WWII section is easily the most noticable 
 and also the most overused of all. And as they keep churning out more and more of the same thing, 
 very few gems manage to escape the horrid fate of their many brothers and sisters. Fortunately 
 for us, Call of Duty 2 is that particular diamond in the rough.
  
  Now typically, most WWII shooters put you in the shoes of one man, traveling through various landscapes 
 of war-ridden Europe trying to rid the world of the eivl Nazi regime. CoD2 strays away from that 
 formula (with the exception of the Nazi's) by letting you take control of multiple characters, 
 each one coming from a different nationality, namely three. These three nationalities are: The 
 British, The Russians, and finally, The Americans. All three really have no difference in terms 
 of controls and gameplay, but even so, they are all equal in terms of exciting, visceral action, 
 that is for sure.
  
  So basically what you are doing is shooting Germans, and lots of them. You will also be given certain 
 mission objectives like destroying their supply bases, capturing documents from their HQ's and 
 so forth. What seperates CoD2 from other historic shooters is both the incredible sense of immersion 
 in the game, and the equally incredible and brutal AI.
  
  First off, I have played many, and I do mean MANY, WWII shooters in my lifetime, but none of them 
 have delivered this insane sesne of realism before. For instance, if a mortar explosion goes off 
 right by you, you get knocked out a little bit with a deafening sound riningin your ears and not 
 being able to move as quickly as you could beforehand. Another is your health; There isn't any! 
 Well, let's just say that it's like a "rip-off" of Halo 2's energy shield. Basically, if you take 
 too may hits, your vision will start to go red, and you'll die, whereas if you take his and stay 
 behind cover, you'll soon start to recover back to full health. Yes, it's not a sense of "realism", 
 but it beats having to look for health packs, doesn't it?
  
  As for the AI, I have never really encountered any that are as brutal, nor as smart, as CoD2's. 
 They will do basic things like shoot behind cover and throw grenades, but you'll be surprised at 
 things you thought they'd never do. Such examples are: Throwing back a grenade you just threw at 
 them, running at you trying to bash your head in at close-quarters, dragging themselves to cover 
 when they are extremly wounded, etc. As you could probably tell, this isn't your everyday AI.
 
  
  Soundwise, it sounds outstanding. Gunshots, mortar explosions, tanks, pretty much every weapon 
 sounds like you are right there listening to it. The music is also well done, with a riveting score 
 in some of the most important battle sequences, to a good 'ole victory tone at the end. Franky 
 speaking, this is the best sounding WWII by far that i've ever listened too.
  
  Graphically, it looks great. Soldiers are incredibly detailed, as is the beautiful (at times) environment. 
 But undeniably the best part is the gun models. I must admit, I have held my Great Grandfathers 
 old WWII sniper rifle, and I must say that the game's model of that rifle looks exactly alike. 
 The Thompson, the M1 Garand, pretty much every weapon in CoD2 looks unbelievably realistic in every 
 way you could imagine 
  
  You would think that the graphics wouldn't have any other problems if it sounds that good, right? 
 Well, unfortunately, there are a few problems with it. The most recognizable of these problems 
 is the framerate. It'll chug here and there, and it'll most likey mess up the sound as well. But 
 if you are up to date on your graphics engine, I wouldn't suspect that you would have any problems 
 with it.
  
  Overall, if you are getting tired of the same old-same old, you would do well to at least give 
 Call of Duty 2 a try, because it doen't run the beaten path like the rest of the family. And for 
 all we know, The Call of Duty series might be the only WWII shooters to accomplish that mission. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bigpimpfattony
Rating: 9.6
Date: Feb 4, 2006 3:52 pm PT
Review:  With three short, but memorable storylines, stunning gameplay, amazing sound, and decent graphics, 
 this game crawls up to a 9.6/10. The gamespot reviewers gave it a 8.8 out of 10 which is a bit 
 low, and 9/10 for call of duty 1 which wasnt even close as good as this one. Call of duty 2 takes 
 you through the streets of russia, the dunes of egypt, and hills of france for an exciting, and 
 adventurous experience. You can shape your own way of how to finish rounds, there are no guidelines, 
 it's all up to you. Call of duty 2, 
  9.6 out of 10
  A must-get. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: blitsie
Rating: 8.8
Date: Feb 4, 2006 12:10 pm PT
Review:  fun fun fun this game rocks you will love it
  
  this brings all the fun a man can have
  only problem is it is short yes short
  but it still rocks
  
  lets settle things, you get 
 to play diffrent campaigns british, UK ,America (USA)
  that is as far as i can remember and everyone is great like the USA just is the best part for me 
 and getting to handle a tank is great you will like it but one thing you will need a PC that can 
 handle a lot of explosins and bullet holes at ones because I suffered at some spot of my PC just 
 freezing in its tracks don't know if it will happen to you but just get a good pc 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dasc00
Rating: 9.3
Date: Feb 22, 2006 4:44 am PT
Review:  i love this game, especially on multiplayer.......
  
  GOOD THINGS: 
  It's hectic, and fun
  AMAZING GRAPHICS EVEN ON LOW SETTINGS
  IT'S GOT VOICE ON MP :D
  Lots 
 of guns
  
  Bad things : (:
  Laggy on medium settings
  It's not as realistic as i thought it would be...... No grease gun on SP, and you get a thompson 
 and a garand....
  
  Get Call of duty 2 for both the single player and multiplayer, but mostly the multiplayer....... theres 
 no vehicles, but its still amazing.... the multiplayer still has no pb, but it should come out soon, 
 but we rarely meet hackers. there are lots of mods out, most servers have mods that add grenade 
 cooking, more realism, a class system, and weapon mods. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gargarensi
Rating: 9.3
Date: Feb 3, 2006 9:00 am PT
Review:  Activision came out with the new Call of Duty 2. You may ask yourself, is it worth the wait? The 
 answer is yes. The game rocks beyond all doubt and the AI is very life-like. Memorable missions 
 include scaling the cliffs of Pointe Du Hoc (Let's face it, scaling some cliffs are more fun than 
 stroming a beach. I'm talking to you Medal of Honor!) and croosing the Rye. 
  
  For people who complain their little butts about too many enemies or it's too hard, then you can't 
 call yourself a gamer. for instance, Of course there's going to be waves and waves of soldiers! 
 It's a damn FPS! You'd think people would know that before actually buying the game. The graphics 
 are the best!!! You can see so much detail unlike Big Red 1 where if a person dies, you see their 
 eyes open.
  
  The sound isn't too shabby too. What really pisses me off the is frame rate. Having too many people 
 on the screen at once can really annoy you. But that still doesn't stop me from having the greatest 
 fun. This game makes killing Krauts fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Shatilov
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 2, 2006 11:17 am PT
Review:  The Good : So far this WWII 1st person shooter is the best in it's series & type it combines great 
 sound effects with the Direct X 9.0b shader quality to make a hell of a game & the players will 
 definitly realise the difference in both sound ( EAX 2.0 , 3.0 , 4.0 ) & graphic ( Direct X 9.0b 
 or Direct X 7 shader ) . Also to the great story line of American , British & Russian campaigns 
 against the Germans , were the fight take's place in Russia , North Africa in general ( Egypt , 
 Tunisia ) , & in France ( Normandy , D-Day , etc ... ) were you really feel as a part in the fight 
 of this WWII . Also not to forget the great multiplayer gaming this is filled with intensive fighting 
 against other players weather that it was online or LAN , & not to forget that new mod when you 
 are hit , they give you the sign to go & look for cover were you can heal & be safe considering 
 that there is no health bar shown on the screen , so that was a great idea that they thought of 
 it .
  
  The Bad : This is game is so great & not funny but seriously , which made me notice few & few not 
 bugs but places were the mission really start to suck because it is hard & you keep on loosing 
 , & that as I think the gameplay of the game wast fast , really it is fast it should be a little 
 bit slow I think but other than that I have nothing against it . It is GREAT :!:
  
  At the end I want to say that is game is worth buying especially those who love WWII 1st person 
 shooter games , it is great & worth buying , it's graphics are not that high ( 9 , 10 ) out of 
 ten , so it will definitely work on most computer out their on medium or probably high to those 
 who know in graphics because they can set their own graphical option in it were they can choose 
 the power of Anti Alising ( 2x , 4x ) or the Anisotrophic Filtering & many other things so I give 
 this game a Two Thumbs Up & recommend people not to hesitate but to buy it . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gty_gty
Rating: 9.8
Date: Feb 1, 2006 3:05 pm PT
Review:  Its hard to describe everything and not sound like a baby whos learning english for the first time. 
 so here we go:
  
  The graphics. Can someone say amazing? Cause all you'll be saying as you see krauts die, tanks 
 go boom and grenades blowing up you buddies. The graphics are second to none. Not only the character 
 bitmaps but the environment to, like trucks, tanks, explosions, the clouds, water etc.
  
  The sound sounds great especially with surround sound. YOu got surround sound speakers? This game 
 is worth picking up just to see how masterfully Infinity Ward did on its sound.
  
  Gameplay. Its ****ing amazing. Nuff said.
  
  Should you get this game? Hell yea! Go get one, 
 hell, get two. Thats an order soldier! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: soulfulDAGGER
Rating: 9.6
Date: Feb 1, 2006 1:49 pm PT
Review:  This game is awesome. The graphics, sounds, play control. All on par with perfection. These guys 
 know how to make a game. The multiplayer is fantastic. Infinity Ward should be commended on creating 
 an astounding piece of work. 
  When you play this game make sure you turn up the volume. The ambient sounds in the distance are 
 incredible. Try playing this game with some headphones. 
  Gameplay is great. The character is smooth and responsive. The enemy A. I is some of the best i 
 have seen. My only complaint is that the tank-play sections are too short. There could have been 
 more vehicles to drive and mingle with. Also would have been nice to have more destructable environments. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cablestein
Rating: 9.3
Date: Feb 1, 2006 11:12 am PT
Review:  Call of Duty 2 gets an 8 out of 10, definately worth the sticker price.
  
  Call of Duty 2 continues the popular series and gives you more of the same great action. Intense, 
 heart-pumping action combined in famous World War 2 scenarios, combing with incredible audio effects 
 and symphonic music.
  
  More guns, more levels and a little more detail.
  
  The negative I would say is that it seemed like a mission pack for Call of Duty with DirectX9 graphics 
 slapped on. Aside from the no-health-packs, there didn't seem to be much innovation. I was expecting 
 much more out of this sequel, but I guess we have to wait for Call of Duty 3.
  
  Shooting off helmets is cool but that seems to be the only thing you can do to a target you are 
 shooting at. I don't remember being able to shoot the gun out of a guys' hand. As well, if you 
 graze a shoulder you should see the uniform torn up at that spot.
  
  The only special death animations you see if a guy pulling a pistol out or crawling away... very 
 cool, but it got very repetitive. How about a guy who looks dead but is hiding a grenade? How about 
 a guy firing his machine gun wildly in all directions?
  
  Turn off DirectX9 shaders and it looks exactly like original Call of Duty style graphics.
  
 
  It does get 8 out of 10 simply because it's more levels, more missions, excellent audio and more 
 Call of Duty!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vufor
Rating: 9.6
Date: Feb 1, 2006 2:47 am PT
Review:  Well, lets start from new designed campaign mode which allow you to chose any part of game to play 
 again. That is just right no need to mess up with save-games or so. 
  Another good innovation is that at the start you are as a part of the game getting through control 
 learning process, which well prepared by developers, and suddenly you start game. A big battle 
 for city of Stalingrad! You have ever seen movie Enemy at the Gates about Russian sniper-hero 
 Vasili Zay4ev. That is our hero in Call of Duty2 Russian campaign. What he has done during this 
 battle just changed course of the World War II at east front of Europe. Amazingly at The first 
 part of Call of Duty we heard about that one person can change whole course of the war. Here 
 we go in first part we did it, and in COD 2 we did it again.
  
  Next campaign is British Campaign. I would say British part I liked most. May be that because of 
 desert and good dynamic lightening which used in game, may be for other unexplained reason. But 
 I liked it very much. Especially I liked El- Almein and El-Daba parts, which is in Egypt.
  
  At last is American campaign. Of course, of coursewhat a American part is that, if it is not 
 start with D-Day battle. That is right this part start with that D-day battle, and going on with 
 cruel and hard battle.
  
  With out saying nothing about graphic of course this review would be just bunch of words. Graphic 
 at the game is superb, thanks to new developed engine which allows to build around it highly realistic 
 environment and make item more real. When you pressing right button of the mouse to shout target 
 with high accuracy, you just stuck and forgot about target and focusing you look at the realistic 
 and brilliant view of the gun. How that impress you, is just amazing. Sound at the game is really 
 good as well.
  Gameplay as we talked above you can see that it is just prepared with wise ness.
  
  In general 
 I would like to say that this game is the best in my collection of WW II first person shooters. 
 Looking forward to collect the best one even from this one!
  
  Enjoy your game!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SturmGeschuetZ
Rating: 5.5
Date: Jan 31, 2006 8:16 pm PT
Review:  The game has terrible flaws such as anti-lag , the no "life bars" leave your opponent running away 
 and magically gaining back full health. He then could come back , and kill you .
  
  For example. You heavily wound an enemy from a kar98k round , in The Original Call Of Duty , a 
 pistol shot could finish him off. In the new Call of Duty 2 , he can now run away , and gain his 
 health back within seconds. Now he can rush you with his thompson , grease gun , etc. and take 
 you down even though you really wounded him bad , he is like the guy from the terminator , he just 
 molds back to full health. 
  
  Another thing , Anti-Lag , you appear to prone , but actually you arent prone , your exposed for 
 about another half a second to the enemy. you put your head up and prone quickly , you are fully 
 exposed after you shot on your screen for a few more seconds. 
  
  Again- No Punkbuster - Hackers may roam the servers as they please. 
  
  Grenades & Weapons 
 Interface - You no longer get to choose 1 , 2 ,3 ,4 for choosing your weapons but rather you press 
 the middle mouse and your nade goes flying , its lame , no grenade bashes anymore. Grenades do 
 not fly far but rather like MOH: AA grenades , dont get very far. They are very powerful , as i 
 have been on the other side of a tank and killed by one.
  
  I prey to god you dont waste $50 on this game , Stick to vcod , and cod: uo
  
  Cod2 will leave 
 you frustrated. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Legions192
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jan 31, 2006 3:13 pm PT
Review:  This game will always live up to its name. Great graphics, sound, ok physics and alot more to explore 
 when playing. the game will increase ur heart rate. love the way game is rushed brings war to ur 
 room or lounge or excetra. there are some downs to the game but the game has alot more great ups 
 to offer. some humor to what the ai sometimes have to say. And the best of all the batle grounds 
 are amazing to actualy see things revolving around you such as plain fights excetra. This is one 
 game one must get no matter what game you fancy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: psnead
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 31, 2006 10:10 am PT
Review:  This call of duty game was the best. I hvae realy in the past four years found that I love the 
 games like this. I have played all the medal of honor games and all the call of duty games and 
 I love them. I have even got my son play Call of duty with me. I like the action and the graphics 
 are great. I would like to learn how to play this game on two monitors. Thanks would even make 
 it better. I have beat the game on easy mode and I am not trying it on veteran. It is very hard. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Chapski
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jan 31, 2006 9:43 am PT
Review:  The campaigns are great starting with a simple and short training session that turns into a rendezvous 
 with the Germans rather than a boring tutorial. From there the action never slows. Submachine guns, 
 rifles, bazookas, smoke grenades, and even sticky bombs used to take out the enemy on a nice selection 
 of very detailed maps. You push back the Germans on all fronts - a Soviet soldier on the east front, 
 a British tank commander against the Afrika Korps, and an US Ranger at Normandy! Lots of objectives 
 and very challenging. The AI is INCREDIBLE!!! You'll think you took out a German with your rifle 
 just to rush up and find him propped up on one arm with his pistol drawn! The health system is 
 a bit unrealistic since you'll be able to take an infinite amount of hits as long as they're spaced 
 far enough apart. Too many hits will screw up your vision and the game will tell you to get to 
 cover but after a few seconds of ducking behind an APC you're at full health. The only other drawback 
 that won't even be a concern to most is the language. The Soviets speak in English with a Russian 
 accent which is necessary considering the nature of the game but I would have liked to have heard 
 some Russian during the fights (like in other games like BF1942) . Your comrades point out enemy 
 soldiers quite frequently so the English seems pretty necessary since no one is going to want to 
 read subtitles while being shot. Other features include a variety of fitting war/peace quotes displayed 
 after each death and a slow-motion, muted shell-shock mode when a German shell explodes nearby! 
 Overall it's pretty damn good on all fronts. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: I_AM_G_O_D
Rating: 1.9
Date: Jan 31, 2006 7:28 am PT
Review:  This is one of the worst games I've played in recent history. The only good thing is the graphics 
 are nice, and sound is ok, but the gameplay is the worst I think I've ever seen. As you move through 
 the levels, each area is basically the same: The enemy keep coming until you rush their position. 
 Over, and over, and over your faced with endless waves of enemy, and instead of being careful, 
 developing a strategy, and attacking a weak point, you must mindlessly rush the enemy position 
 so the enemy will stop coming in that area. The first Call of Duty was not too bad, but if you 
 remember the apartment building you had to defend against wave after wave of enemy until reinforcements 
 arrived, I hated that board, now that is the ENTIRE GAME in Call of Duty 2. Another stupid thing, 
 when your given an order, such as put a sticky bomb on the tank, you keep hearing your commander 
 over, and over, and over "The tank is to the southeast" even though you nowhere near him. As if 
 you dont know how to check your objectives, or look at your compass. Another stupid thing, no heath 
 meter. Another stupid thing, the hud fades out. Another stupid thing, health regenerates. Another 
 stupid thing, after dying from a grenade they KEEP on telling you to watch for the grenade symbol. 
 Or when you get shot a huge "You've been shot Get to some cover" appears on the screen, DUH! It's 
 like your sitll in training the ENTIRE GAME. They tell you things over and over, as if you cant 
 remember anything. This game is just stupid, a waste of time, and money. On a scale of 1 to a billion, 
 I give this non-game -50. Activision should go back to the arcade where they belong, and leave 
 the PC games to REAL developers. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: platinumpt
Rating: 7.8
Date: Jan 31, 2006 6:25 am PT
Review:  Alright, this is going to be a tough one for me.
  
  Technically, CoD2 equals perfection. It has superb graphics, its engine assures the best playability 
 I've ever experienced on a FPS, the enemies AI is so good that it actually looks like you're killing 
 human opponents.
  
  So, what's the problem with this game exactly? Well, in my opinion it's so repetitive that ir hurts. 
 The entire game is very big. It has a **** of campaigns where you're asked to do many different 
 objectives. However, nothing of this is new, I've been through the same objectives on the first 
 CoD. I'd even say that CoD's missions were more inspired than the CoD2 missions were. Besides, 
 the whole WWII genre is overexplored. There are already too many games exploring the whole theme, 
 and it's getting more boring as games come out.
  
  I must admit that I loved the Soviet campaign. The whole thing with the snow, the soldiers' breathing, 
 etc etc, but it gets repetitive after a while. When I got to the American campaign, I start to 
 think "when is this thing supposed to end?", because it all started to sound like an annoying deja 
 vu. Most missions end up being about killing jerries and defending strategic positions for a certain 
 amount of time, until the backup arrives. When I finally finished the last mission, I was surprised, 
 because it didn't feel like a last mission. It felt like a regular mission, when I saw the credits 
 roll I even checked a walkthrough, just to make sure there weren't any additional missions.
  
  All in all, technically CoD2 is perfect. But being around the same theme gets boring after 
 a short while. It'll get a great score anyway. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: brettlee01
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 31, 2006 5:42 am PT
Review:  the sequel to the 2003 "Game of the Year," Call of Duty 2 delivers an unparalleled portrayal of 
 the chaos and cinematic intensity of World War II through stunningly detailed graphics, advanced 
 AI, realistic character animations and explosive on-screen action - all powered by Infinity Ward's 
 brand new proprietary engine.
  
  but the single player is a bit short the graphics are agressive and this game can be delivered 
 on a avererage computer. Most anyone who plays games would more than likely be very impressed with 
 Call of Duty's authentic presentation, well designed and often very intense single-player missions, 
 and fast-paced, entertaining multiplayer modes. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mkeelahi
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 30, 2006 9:48 pm PT
Review:  Infinity Ward has once again shown their perfection in Call of Duty 2. This mind-blowing, highly 
 addictive, impressive looking and legend making game proves that it's the best WWII shooter.
  The most attractive stuff in this game is it's graphics. It can easily demand 11 out of 10!!!!!!! 
 in graphics. Another thing that made the game intensive (and easy too) is it's auto recharged health 
 like Halo.
  Call of Duty series has it's reputation for featuring all the allied forces campeign. This time 
 the three different nation's will give you different tastes.
  So, if u are a FPS fan, don't miss it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ksr_rules
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jan 30, 2006 6:09 pm PT
Review:  This is the best WWII and First Person Shooter if I could give advice any gamer that loves shooters 
 then it would be to get off your chair, out your door and into the store to get this game. Everything 
 is amazing in this game, graphics, AI, sound etc... The only thing that is not so good is that.. 
 ITS TOO SHORT i finished it during one weekend on hard difficulty but i guess there is one more 
 thing.. I wish that the game had more types of guns you dont get much variety in this game when 
 it comes to guns.. The feeling of the game and the huge battles is better then fantastic so many 
 men are on the field and sound makes you feel as if you there. I dont think you need to know more 
 (if you do go read other reviews) so just get off you computer and buy the game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RustyBolt
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jan 30, 2006 2:57 pm PT
Review:  Call of duty 2 returns with a vengeance. 
  
  In short, COD2 will bite a good chunk off your neck, and throw you ten feet across the room. In 
 Call of duty 2, you play three campaigns, with russian, british, and american soldiers. The game 
 is constant action this time around, no puzzles, no RPG elements, nothing. Just constant jerry-water 
 killing! This may be put off some people because they'll undoubtebly sack their underwear... but 
 it's mostly good.
  
  A. I. is challenging on veteran, and their shot is dead accurate. They'll come after you agressively, 
 and when you throw a grenade at them... guess what?! they'll throw right back in your face. Sometimes 
 it explodes in their hands which is hilarious. Little exploits that work in other FPS won't work 
 here. You want to nick off a mg42'er from the piss edge of a corner? Guess what? If you can see 
 him, he can see you, and he will shoot you back. 
  
  The game plays pretty good, despite the number of jerry's on-screen. In the British campaign, you 
 can see groups of 24 something germans charging towards you team, the chaos never stops! 
  
  The graphics in this game are breathtaking, hate to say it, but except for the water, the graphics 
 are even better than F. E. A. R! Imagine Far Cry styled graphics. Now polish them 3 fold, and take 
 out the cartoony-ness. The result is some incredibly detailed character models and environment. 
 
  
  The audio is top-notch and call of duty's trademark. Everything has a great cinematic flair to 
 it, and the exclusion of a health bar makes the game more immersive. When you're health is flashing 
 red, you can duck for 3 seconds, and your good to kill some more JERRY! Yes, it's incredibly unrealistic, 
 but guess what? It's a game!
  
  Multiplayer doesn't dissapoint either, but you still can't ride vehicles. Players online are incredibly 
 skilled lunatics (that's a no brainer) , and you'll need to pitch in a fair amount of hours... to 
 be umero one (yeah that was lame) . 
  
  
  Oh yeah one more thing, I played this game on a 3.0 GHZ machine, with 1 GB or RAM, and a 256 MB 
 video card. This game ran fine, but as with everyone else, it did chug when there was chunk loads 
 of smoke. From what I've heard, this game plays fine on a low processor and ram, you just need 
 a good video card. Oh yeah! The game needs a heavy graphics card. I suggest a nvidia 6800 or an 
 ATI x800 or higher, both will play the game great.
  
  People complain the game baby-sits you sometimes (you're never lost) , and some say it's linear, 
 which it is to some extent. But these flaws are minor. In the end, COD2 is COD1, except it's bigger, 
 badder, and meaner. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MetalMaster08
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jan 30, 2006 11:19 am PT
Review:  This game is literaly amazing I would have to say it is the greatesr WWII shooter out to date. 
 First there is the absolutely Jaw dropping graphics {this is all based on my awesome comp} You 
 see someone get shot you will see the blood free from their head. Then there is the genious A. I 
 they are so smart that when they getshot and dont die they will crawl away and shoot u if u tryto 
 follow them. They will also take cover behindanything they can find amazingly your team mates are 
 just as evenly skilled as youare so itfeels like an actual war it does not feel like your sitting 
 there by yourself theywill fightby your side til death. Then there is the multiplayer it will sometimes 
 lag but it is still fun I also reccomend a lot of campaign before heading into multiplayer [unless 
 you have some considerable skills and experience in the computer FPS world. An amazing gameIwould 
 highly reccomend will ensure at least a couple good months of good fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: VeiZZ
Rating: 7.8
Date: Jan 30, 2006 12:06 am PT
Review:  It is a big fault not using healthpacks, it feels very unreal and the edge is gone! Change that, 
 and you have a beutiful game! The graphic engine is brilliant, it takes almost no power running 
 it, sound effects are beutiful especially the whitsle when you are close to enemy artillery. There 
 is also one setting with which you can increase the number of bodies to the extreme, that really 
 makes you get in a world war 2 state of mind! Although i must admit that it is a higly addictive 
 game it is just to short, i finished it in about 6-8 hours and that is just not enough. But to 
 it's defence it has a very potent multiplayer sequence. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kaust111
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jan 29, 2006 9:24 pm PT
Review:  yep heres another call of duty and its as ever before really good ,if you havnt played the previous 
 ones you will enjoy this, if you have you will enjoy it even more.... it has it all that its predecessor 
 have and addd quite much more .
  
  The AI is just excellent ,extreme fun .the halo styled regeneration works very well and seamlessly 
 .. the campain is also very good and quite varient though some times might feel a bit repetative 
 .also playing cod 2 on max settings can qiute take the breath out of some very powerful gaming 
 rigs out there..
  
  The campain is divided into 3 parts as russian ,british and the americans
  you start off as a 
 russian soilder vasii putin ,the scene is set around the time of the german invasion of Stalingrad, 
 and you fight out the germans in around 10 misions to repel them out .the british campain is unlocked 
 after the russian campain ,mostrly consists of the british forces fighting against the germans 
 in the deserts of north africa.. the tanks missions in this campain are just excellent and aweasome 
 fun.. the american campain is rather short and includes taking over a heavily fortified hill 400 
 and the final push against the german forces..
  
  the ai is also very good and manages efficiently to pose some very challenging situations around 
 you .. the will take cover ,run around and lob grenades at you to flush you out of your hiding places 
 .you have to realyy plan your moves carefully cause the ai rarely do mistakes.. your friendly forces 
 also do act quite good in there battles lobbing grenades ,providing covering fire and warning you 
 of enemy grenades..
  
  All in all it is a very good game and a must play of all fans of the cod series as well as all 
 shooting fans 
::::::

::::::
UserName: huss2215
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jan 29, 2006 7:40 pm PT
Review:  The best war game CALL OF DUTY and now with its sequel, it shows how powerful in graphics it superly 
 has become. Once again in war no one fights alone! Now I have reviewed this game as the same as 
 the first one. Now I think that the first Call Of Duty was much more superior in it's single player 
 and multiplayer. Now COD: UO the expansion delivered the best multiplayer for COD which makes the 
 first COD the best, but it also had a weak short singleplayer which is mainly why I did not review 
 it.  would be the order of what 
 call of duties I like best, the original PC one being my best. Anyways continuing my review for 
 COD2. Now the gameplay changed but also downgraded in a way. The game has no medikit pickups and 
 your health refills when taking cover from being shot at alot. Now I truly hate that becuz it reminds 
 me of a similarity in halo 2's refillable shield. Also the fact of only holding 2 guns at once 
 and 2 side grenades smoke and frag. Now come on why not keep it the same where you can hold 2 big 
 weapons with a secndry pistol and your nades. Which was a bit of a downgrade on COD2. Also they 
 should of looked into the COD: UO's online where vehiles could be driven with Base Assaulty amemodes. 
 There are no vehicles online and u just drive a tank single player wise. The graphics, sound and 
 value all superb and worth it. This game is also very amazing especially if u have a high, great 
 pc with like a 512mb graphic card, because it is just amazing and is still all out crazy war and 
 very fun to play if you dodge some of the downgradable disappointments that activision should of 
 looked into. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sr-gogeta-goku
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 29, 2006 8:58 am PT
Review:  It is one of the most liked war shooters i've ever played .as i played the game i found it very 
 intresting the thunderous bombing of the shell adds on to the excitement. it has a addictive gamepaly, eventhoug 
 it is basicaly a shoot and run game the gamers are provided with minial tasks like placing bombs 
 and blasting bunkers. the ai is quite good the are very aggresive and they know how to defend themselves 
 our team ai is also equally good, it is a highly addictive wartime game ,additonal footages in between 
 
  the missions just adds on to the realism and the feel to the game, COD is a pretty nice game those 
 who have played the previous sequels will not be dissapointed 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xmater
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 29, 2006 4:40 am PT
Review:  Then Infinity Ward make a game they make it soo cool that i not could leave my computer until i 
 have completed the game. And at the same time i have play the demo of the game 100 times. But it 
 was a bit harder then the demo. And the sound of the German then they get a grenade in from the 
 back is soo fun.
  I give it 10 and perfect because it is a perfect game. So if you not have the game, and loves FPS 
 in the WW2, go out and buy it, and play it to you not can play anymore. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: major_mayhem_01
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 29, 2006 3:34 am PT
Review:  Considering you have a computer system that can put out, COD 2 definitely delivers! This installment 
 of the COD family paves the way for WW II shooters. Game play is easier to adjust to now that you 
 don't have to waste time hunting down health packs a mile away. This feature keeps the flow of 
 battle at a constant and the intensity of staying alive longer. This is why the game seems shorter 
 than usual. The same goes for ammo and grenades. Just pick up a pack of goods from a fallen soldier 
 or an enemy and away you go.
  The graphics on this puppy are nothing short of amazing. I've found myself getting killed by the 
 enemy, at times, when I stopped to admire the scenery! Kinda freaky on how video games are getting 
 so realistic compared to the pastel colors of yesteryear. Look at the water in this game, or your 
 weapon, and you'll see what I mean. 
  Even the sound is fantastic. I only use headphones, but I know on a surround sound system this 
 game would ROCK! A good example are the echoes you hear from your Russian comrades shouting in 
 the streets of Stalingrad. Or the acoustic sounds of shouting and gunfire within concrete bunkers. 
 
  Any cons? Yeah, there's a few. It does seem short considering there's SIX installment discs. Moreover 
 the constant yelling from the Germans gets to you after awhile. Especially when it seems like the 
 Germans all have the same voice. A mix up of tones and tempos would have been better. Aiming seems 
 to be a bit off too at long distances. Head shots should be one kill, but I've found myself shooting 
 a German, dead to rights, more than once in the head. My biggest gripe though is the way these 
 games go to retail BEFORE the computer hardware that can play them does! 
  Nonetheless, this game is a blast to play. Very fun and immersive. It really gives you that gritty 
 taste of war and the horrors of it. Thank goodness it's just a game! Anymore real and you'd think 
 you had enlisted. 
  COD 2, at first, was a reluctant buy for me, but after completing the game I have no regrets! If 
 you don't choke on the virtual dust then the competition surely will! GOOD JOB GUYS N' GALS! 
 
  I hope there's an expansion pack on the way! Because theres plenty of battles within a war! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: metkillerjoe
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jan 28, 2006 5:41 pm PT
Review:  Awesome game. Made me wanna quite sometimes, but in all, it was good. This is really the most intense 
 one out there.
  
  I started at Regualar difficulty. I got this game because a lot of people around me were playing 
 it and enjoyed. I picked up a copy and started playing and I was really astounded at how well everything 
 went; I have a low end Geforce card and there was no lag in the graphics, AT ALL (but there was 
 a crap load of artifacting because I had overclocked it) . Right from training the the Red Army 
 you are immersed, and really, you just have to play the game to see how intense it gets. It gets 
 intense fast, but you don't realize it until you have 5 enemies with mausers in front of you and 
 you are about to die. Then you go into cover and see all of your comrades dying, getting hit, taking 
 cover, and last and least, shooting.
  
  Even if you aren't the type of person for WWII FPS, I really suggest this. The gameplay could not 
 be better. The graphics and sound I really am biased on because I couldn't actually test the best 
 available.
  
  I am not gonna lie; it will get boring sometimes because you will be able to predict the AIs movements, 
 but this can also get annoying because you throw and grenade and then, as it sails through the 
 air, you just realized that the enemy will just dodge it. There are no bosses in this game (which 
 I adore because I was never really liking that boss concept in the old school games) , but there 
 are massive tanks which you sometimes have to get extremely close to and defeat with sticky grenades. 
 
  
  I could say a million more things about this game, but really, those would just be spoilers. Get 
 the game. Play it. And Enjoy. Really, that is the only way to enjoy this intense WW2 shooter. 
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: GIF
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jan 28, 2006 12:54 pm PT
Review:  If you have an Xbox 360 and like First Person Shooters yet haven't played this game, you are missing 
 out. Its a masterpiece. Its immersive, the graphics are good and the sound is great. One thing 
 I expected not to see though are the enclosed environments and the fact that theya re small. One 
 great thing is the scripted environments which immerse you into the action. The UI is great because 
 its organic yet functional. Sure its not an innovative game but its fun as hell and the closest 
 thing to Saving Private Ryan yet. This game is a testament to what Infinity Ward can do with High 
 end PC hardware. I'm extremely anxious to see what they can do with the Xbox 360 hardware for their 
 next game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: yuddengard
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jan 27, 2006 12:36 pm PT
Review:  I never had a full contact with the first game and neither I imported myself with this, cus definitively 
 first person shooters aren't my favorite style. But in a day I decided to go to store and buy some 
 titles and there is it. I bought.
  \o/
  Your first steps in the war: I liked the way as you're launched into game with only the little 
 tuto. Yeah bro, it's with you from there.
  In this game you don't need to be worried about specific tactics, but all of them as it was of 
 if waiting in a war game. You have some freedom to go and back.
  No matter how hard I try I can't like most kind of modern shooters so I come back toward the past 
 to play what I can't find in that games.
  The graphics are marvellous. Real special moke effects that really work. I throw a grenade smoke 
 and I can pass throughout this without be shoted.
  The sound... left, right, surrounding you, shots, airplanes, panzers it's fantastic all that more 
 than realistic battlefield.
  The Egyptian campaign was the one that I liked more.
  At last you cannot be without this game.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: xbloholic
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 26, 2006 2:29 pm PT
Review:  This game is AMAZING!!! its alot better than what i thought it would be, i actually only played 
 the demo in a walmart (lol) but i couldnt belive my eyes how realistic this game was, i mean the 
 combat and everything so real! sound was fantastic and this is a game the 360 was made for.
  
  i played this single demo game for over an hour and i was still having a blast, i highly recomend 
 this game to all fpsers.
  
  i really cant say anything more about this game except its awesomeness and it abilitie to fully 
 submerge you into the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Royas
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jan 25, 2006 7:37 pm PT
Review:  War, as it has been noted before, is hell. Those who have been in actual battles will usually tell 
 you that they are chaotic, unpredictable, noisy and confusing. The common soldier rarely has a 
 very good idea of what they are doing beyond the immediate moment. Most FPS games do not capture 
 this reality very well. You always know where the enemy is, the goals are usually clear cut, and 
 you are alone with nobody else to worry about that. Call of Duty 2, on the other hand, is not like 
 most other shooters. It throws you into the chaos and bedlam that is war.
  
  In the game, you will play three separate campaigns, one for the Russian, British and American 
 forces. Each campaign casts you as a common soldier. You will start out with the Russian campaign 
 with a short tutorial/basic training scene which will have you using potatoes as grenades (Because 
 grenades are worth more than you are!) just before dropping you into a sneak attack by the German 
 forces. Right away, things get confusing. Keeping track of the enemy, finding good cover, using 
 your team mates for support... these are critical to succeeding. If you go charging out into the 
 open, gun ablazin', you will not win. You will die a quick death instead. This ain't Doom!
  
  Tactically, the AI enemies are not dummies. If you hunker down behind cover, they'll toss a 
 grenade or two your way. They won't ignore you in favor of your squadmates. They get behind cover, 
 and use it to fire from. Naturally, they aren't as smart or as flexible as human enemies would 
 be, but for AI, they do a good job of keeping the player honest. To deal with these all too smart 
 enemies, you have a wide variety of WWII era weapons to use. These weapon models look great and 
 perform very much like you would expect them to in real life. They sound great, too. Ammo can be 
 a real problem sometimes, I frequently found myself grabbing up German weapons because I would 
 always be able to find more ammo from their corpses.
  
  During gameplay, the you will encounter several different types of tasks, sometimes all in the 
 same mission. You will crew machine guns, use bombs on tanks, repair cable and, yes, shoot a lot 
 of enemy soldiers. A lot. The terrains you will fight through are varied and authentic looking. 
 There are often multiple routes to get from point A to B, and there is a lot of cover to use cleverly. 
 You also have the option of using smoke grenades to provide cover where none exists, a nice addition 
 to the game.
  
  Visually, CoD2 is magnificent. With a high end gaming rig, which I am fortunate to possess, the 
 game looks near real. Textures are vivid and clear, and very detailed, while the human models move 
 well and look great. The high grade visuals do come at a price, the game can get very demanding 
 on the system. There are a few (very few) points where even a top of the line machine will stutter 
 a bit, but for the most part the game is very smooth. The sounds are as good as the graphics. You 
 can clearly hear movement, track gunfire by sound alone, and the explosions can loosen your teeth 
 if you turn the sub-woofer up enough. Voice acting is better than average, but the shouts from 
 your teammates do get a bit repetitive after a time. At least they serve a purpose... if your friend 
 is yelling to cover him because he's reloading, that means he really is reloading.
  
  I do have to ding the game a bit in difficulty at points. It seemed to me to be a bit too difficult 
 at points, to the point of frustrating me. I had to turn it off and walk away more than once at 
 different points, so as not to damage my keyboard. That being said, I'm not the best FPS player 
 on Earth, I'm sure others will have had a much easier time than I did. So, not really a ding, more 
 of a comment, really.
  
  CoD2 is nothing revolutionary in the field of FPS. It is, however, evolutionary. It takes the formula 
 of the WWII shooter and improves upon it. While it doesn't do anything that hasn't been done before 
 to some level or another, it does all of it very well, perhaps better than any game to date. This 
 is truly a game worthy of being called a next generation game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fuhrerJack
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jan 25, 2006 4:59 pm PT
Review:  Lets see.... Cod 2 is a great game. It reminds me of the original cod especially online. Because 
 in the beginning, the vcod had a huge scope and was just too easy. Hopefully Punk Buster will come 
 and they will make it a little harder. I get bored when i own everyone. THe shotgun is a great 
 gun if you just want to pub. Everyone will get mad but it is what a shotgun does. The SIngle player 
 is not lacking either. SP with extra graphics on and a decent computer is beautiful. Although i 
 am a Multi-Player junky and need my 120 fps. So i suggest you put your settings as direct x 7 instead 
 of 9. It makes about a 100 fps difference for me and i have an ati radeon 9800 pro. I even have 
 good to great graphics on. PB would make this MP stay for a long time, and the use of older maps 
 like Carentan, Brecourt, Railyard (which changed its name for some reason) and bocage make it fun 
 for vcod players. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chrisofsteel
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jan 25, 2006 10:18 am PT
Review:  I must commend the idea to add smoke grenades! When pinned down in a tight spot, just lob some 
 smoke and run through the chaos. The detail for both the smoke and dust is incredible, giving great 
 cover for flanking. All the other weapons are pretty much the same as in the first COD with the 
 sniper rifle being a must have. Also, as in the first game, you get to play as Russian, Brits, 
 and Americans, but unlike the previous version you will jump between the countries at different 
 times during the game. The closer to the end of the game you get the more intense the fighting 
 gets. Storming then defending the German bunker at the top of the mountain is quite exhausting. 
 Overall this game is a must have. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Krusher222
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jan 25, 2006 7:19 am PT
Review:  Great game! Call of Duty II has lots of action, authentic and is a very addicting game. Although 
 for me too short! If you like 1st person shooters and WWI/ War games this is a must have. Although 
 Im sometimes not sure what I like best in games i. e. driving a tank or being a foot soldier CODII 
 gives you a great mix if everything. The campaign mode is fun, lots of neat mission (although very 
 repetitive at times) but what it lacks in the cutting edge story line it makes up for in the graphics 
 (smoke screens are awesome!) . In the end, I would have to say CODII is excellent game play for 
 everyone who is either a history/military buff or hardcore 1st person shooter. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: soulessjay
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jan 25, 2006 6:39 am PT
Review:  This is the very first historic war game that I have ever played and I must say that I thoroughly 
 enjoyed it. I thought the level of detail was wonderful in the game. They have really great graphics. 
 With surround sound I really believe that the game really comes alive. It really makes the game 
 shine.
  
  I personally enjoyed multi-player. There were a few things that need to be fixed (like getting 
 stuck in a car) but for the most part it was a good experience.
  
  Overall I would say anyone interested in World War 2 games, should definitely pick this one up.
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: nguba
Rating: 6.9
Date: Jan 25, 2006 2:36 am PT
Review:  The single player is great. I was particularly impressed with the AI which is far more aggressive 
 and reactive than before. However, my main reason for playing this game was to play it on-line, 
 in multiplayer. And that's where the disappointment strikes hard. It looks like the multiplayer 
 mode has been rushed out or quickly bolted on without giving it too much thought. cross-hairs turning 
 RED when over an opponent and hideous CVAR exploits just don't add to the fun. There are also quite 
 a lot of bugs in the mp maps themselves which can be exploited as well as some engine bugs. What 
 is really annoying is that when you think you stand behind an object and lean out you are effectively 
 still in full view. I am not sure where the camera is but it does not seem that it is effectively 
 at eye level. I expected CoD2 to raise the mulitplayer experience - not lower it. And the public 
 speaks for itself. Most CoD2 on-line servers are empty.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: kegster202
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jan 24, 2006 4:20 pm PT
Review:  Wow, the first second you step onto the battlefield, u are immeresed in a game when you actually 
 feel like ur one solider in a big battle. You immediatly start the short tutorial, which tells 
 u all u need to know to kick some german butt. Then the attack starts and your taken into the ehat 
 of battle with your fellow comrades. The games graphic are great, if u have a good video card the 
 game looks amazing, excepesially the desert levels. The smoke effects from the smoke gernades are 
 the best ive ever seen, you have to see them to believe them. The graphics rae good but its the 
 sound effects that really make this game shine. If you have a good sound system, prepare for intensity 
 at the next level. The multiplayer is great to, you can have 16-64 player battles, in a variety 
 of maps and with lots of fun modes including attack and defend, capture the flag, deathmatch and 
 team deathmatch.
  
  Althought this is a awesome game, it does have some minor flaws. The game slows down and get repetitive 
 at the last few missions and you kinda just want it to be over. The frame slows right down at some 
 parts, and i jsut upgraded my computer with top of the line hardware, which kinda ruins the action. 
 
  
  This is a great game and should not be missed by world war 2 shooter fans. It really immerses you 
 and is one of the most intence games ive ever played 
::::::

::::::
UserName: choppa13
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jan 24, 2006 2:56 pm PT
Review:  Call of Duty 2 places you in the role of three different soldiers across three campaigns, British, 
 Russian, and American. During the campaign not only are you limited to infantry you are able to 
 control mounted guns, anti-aircraft weaponry, and certain levels you have the control of a tank. 
 
  
  Gameplay
  
  Call of Duty 2 has the most immersive gameplay to cross the pc in a while. It does a great job 
 continuing the factor that you are one man in a huge scale war. The ai is fierce, lobbing grenades 
 if you stay stationary too long, and flanking your position. But it is not as difficult as it seems, 
 with the addition of the health regeneration ability it makes it much more exciting having to duck 
 for cover, instead of hunting for health packs.
  
  Graphics
  
  This game looks phenomenal, from the modeling of each soldier, to the environment, and vehicles. 
 When walking through demolished cities, and war torn deserts, you can't help to stop and look in 
 awe at the beautifully rendered settings. 
  
  Sound
  
  I am willing to argue that this game has the best overrall sound to grace any platform. The authentic 
 sounds of the weapons, the hum of a vehicles engine, yelling of the enemies and allies, the distant 
 crackling of enemy fire, the explosion of a close grenade put all together at once really makes 
 you feel like you are in a war. 
  
  Value
  
  The price of call of duty 2 is easily worth dishing out for, you might even want to spend the extra 
 ten bucks for the collectors edition. You can replay this game many times and many ways on single 
 player, and multi-player never seems to get old. 
  
  Overall, if you are a fan of any type of FPS, you owe yourself to try out Call of Duty 2. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: man_child23
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jan 24, 2006 10:49 am PT
Review:  Call of duty 2 is going to be great if you liked the first one. This time, the stages aren't as 
 linear, though not exactly open ended either. Most of the time you find yourself taking over a 
 town with about 5 objectives, and you can choose which order you want to take them. You then usually 
 have to defend that town against a counter attach. Though most of the stages are towns, you will 
 find yourself on the beach, attacking and defending a hill that looks over a town, and in the desert. 
 
  The best part of the game is the action - its basically nonstop from beginning to end. Cool sounds 
 effects, lots of eye candy. I guess the fiip flop of this is that you don't get much of a story 
 to go along with it. This may not be a bad thing, depending on the player. 
  Overall, worth playing if you are a fan of the genre. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lukeriela
Rating: 8.1
Date: Jan 23, 2006 7:41 pm PT
Review:  It hurts me deeply to give such a well-made and well-polished games just a 'good' score. Don't 
 get me wrong Call of Duty 2 is one of the most intense shooters ever, there is only two things 
 in its way of FPS nirvana. That thing is Call of Duty and its expansion Call of Duty: United Offensive.
 
  
  Call of Duty was one of the best World War 2 shooters ever created, which sets the bar pretty high 
 for Call of Duty 2. Call of Duty 2 meets the standards set by Call of Duty, but goes no further. 
 Call of Duty was a great game, why change that formula? Well, theres no point in buying Call of 
 Duty 2 if it doesn't offer anything new. Call of Duty 2 is a small step forward, but a huge leap 
 backwards for the series.
  
  Call of Duty 2, like Call of Duty, lets you play as a soldier from Russia, Great Britain, and of 
 course America. In the middle of the Great Britain campaign you will get the chance to play as 
 a tank commander. This mission is, in fact, made pretty well and is pretty entertaining, but the 
 real meat is in the other missions. The missions are just as intense as you would expect them to 
 be and offer up some varied objectives, such as laying down targets for the artillery to shoot 
 at or sniping enemy mortar teams. Each mission feels pretty fresh and every mission is intense 
 thanks to the revampred AI. The AI for the soldiers on your side are excellent, they take cover 
 well and even call out the positions of the enemies. The enemies will now throw grenades, lots 
 of them, so the game never lets you stay behind one piece of cover for too long. Luckily for you 
 there is a new grenade indicator that tells you where nearby grenades are. While this may seem 
 a little cheap, the grenade indicator will save your life countless number of times, especially 
 playing on veteran difficulty.
  
  With all that said, there are a few flaws that keep this title from surpassing its similar predecessor. 
 While the AI is one of the best new additions to the Call of Duty series, sometimes the AI is just 
 plain dumb. Sometimes your own guys will duck for cover when a grenade is right in front of them. 
 Although, the biggest problem is when the enemy AI waits for a few seconds before shooting at you, 
 but these minor problems only occur every once in a while. Although, the one addition that really 
 hurts the game is the fact that you have no health bar, when you are hurt, simply duck behind some 
 cover for a few seconds and you will be fine. This may sound fine, but it takes alot of intensity 
 out of clearing out rooms and advancing on the enemies position, you don't really have to be careful.
 
  
  There are some of the small list of changes from Call of Duty that I did enjoy such as how the 
 game makes you use a lot of grenades. By the American campaign you will be used throwing smoke 
 grenades in the middle of an intense fire fight and throwing frag grenades into a house packed 
 full of nazis. The only other addition is just the added touch of polish from the fierce melee 
 attacks to the sights of a rifle.
  
  Speaking of rifles, this games weapons are extrordinary, from the Luger to the Bazooka, every gun 
 feels so solid. You can tell that every gun is created with every detail and it really adds a lot 
 to the game. Also the games enemies drop a very wide variety of weapons which adds a cool touch 
 to the game. Call of Duty has the same weapon carrying system as Halo and Halo 2, which is that 
 you can only hold two weapons at a time, this fits in perfectly with Call of Duty 2.
  
  On highest settings Call of Duty 2 will take your breathe away, sadly, unless you have an exceptionally 
 fast computer, you will have to upgrade your computer to see it. Or atleast to see CoD 2 on highest 
 graphics with an FPS in the double digits. Although, when you turn CoD 2 on highest graphics you 
 will understand why it is so important to upgrade your computer, you can see every stitching in 
 your characters jacket and every dirt speck on your gun.
  
  Call of Duty 2 has to have one of the best audio ever created in a game. There is no music (besides 
 at the end of a level) , CoD 2 leaves you to hear the real sound of war, bullets wooshing above 
 your head, mortars flying down in front of you and the yelling of allies and enemies. CoD 2 is 
 one game that would have to be heard, if CoD didn't sound just as great.
  
  The other great thing about CoD 2 is the multiplayer. With ability for up to 64 players on the 
 same server to play is great. The other thing that is cool about the multiplayer is that CoD 2 
 has a Kill cam which shows you the last 5 seconds before your death from the person who killed 
 you. While I am not a big fan of the added weapons in multiplayer, the multiplayer in CoD 2 is 
 sure to keep you playing for a while longer.
  
  In the end, Call of Duty 2 is a great shooter with great level design and wonderful AI, I just 
 cant recommend it. I reccomend buying the first Call of Duty and its expansion pack. If you already 
 have both of those games and if you are a big fan of Call of Duty, Call of Duty 2 might be worth 
 your fifty bucks, but I am just warning you that it will feel familiar. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: klusps
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 30, 2007 4:18 pm PT
Review:  From the developers of Infinity Ward which has been known for their excellent COD games, they brought 
 about Call of Duty 2. If you don't already know COD2 is a FPS set in the WWII. You play as a soldier 
 in the American, Russian, and British. Each campagin is set in different part of Europe. The first 
 thing I have to say is that Infinity Ward has built a master piece of a WWII game. It captures 
 the absolute feel when you're in battle. Because of the next gen technology, this game can go beyound 
 anything you seen before in a WWII FPS. You will fight with hundreds of allies by your side and 
 hundreds of enemies. One of the things I hate in WWII soldiers is even though you get a lot of 
 allies with you, they're mainly in the background, and you don't get to fight side by side with 
 them. Well in COD2 you can. The campaign is a thing to experience if you're into this game. (which 
 we'll talk later) The developers has change things around with the gameplay, which differs from 
 the other COD game. First you will have no life bars, and there won't be any medic kits. What the 
 developers did was if you get hit too much your screen will go red, if you take anymore damage, 
 you die, so you need to find cover quickly. The other thing is that you can now use smoke grenades 
 to blind the enemy to knowing where you are. The campaign is the thing that shine in this game. 
 Being with many ally charging through with tanks, and explosion everywhere really feels great. 
 The campaign really captures the epic field of a WWII battlefield. Ally and enemy soldiers will 
 be litterly be screaming out orders for you which adds on to the drama of the chaotic battle. In 
 most of the campaign levels will be pretty open. You get to choose which objectives to do first. 
 In some parts of the campagin you can drive vehicles like tanks. Controls are really easy to pick 
 up and is fun to be blast soldiers with a tank cannon. Also this game has one of the best epic 
 tank battles I've seen. The AI is really and the enemy is not to underesitmated. They will find 
 cover if they're being fired on. They will throw grenades if they got you pinned down. And they 
 know how to flank you. One of the best AI I've seen in a game. Another touch to the AI is if you 
 almost killed a enemy and he's down on the ground, he will pull out a pistol and fight to the death. 
 Just a little thing that makes the game more realistic. The graphic in this game is amazing. The 
 snowfall in Russia looks realistic then any other snow I've seen in the game. The shadowing and 
 details of a soldier is really realistic. The explosions and smoke looks really good. It is just 
 amazing. The audio is great in this game. The voice acting is solid and your friendly allies yelling 
 in the battlefield is great. The music in this game is hardly noticable sense all you're going 
 to be hearing is explosion and gun fire. The value in this game is good. The multiplayer is pretty 
 fun, which can hold up to 32 players at once. Overall this game is just absolutely amazing. If 
 you're a fan of FPS or WWII games then I would diffidently recommend checking this game out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zerkeer
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jan 23, 2006 7:06 am PT
Review:  This Review is directed to the single-player Mode of COD2, as i've not come to test the multiplayer 
 modes yet.
  
  I never played COD original before, i've only seen it once and it didnt appeal to me at all.. although 
 i've got no prejudices at all against older game.
  
  So i really didnt know what to expect from COD 2.
  
  And thats what i got: The game is really 
 compelling and sucks you into the whole world war feeling. Only the moments where your teammates 
 wait for you to continue the story/fight or where suddenly a reinforcement of soldiers starts supporting 
 you in your assaults look a bit strange..
  But it's still implemented quite neatly and doesnt bother the player too much.
  
  The smoke 
 grenades mechanics surprised me; They also work great against Computer AI. As soon the Smoke expanded 
 a bit the enemies wont fire through the smoke anymore.
  
  The missions are entertaining and fun. You find yourself losing orientation completely from time 
 to time as if you were in war yourself ;) Most of the time you dont feel very restricted, so the 
 war feels wide-spread.. but there are also some invisible blockers, or minefields to direct you 
 on a given path.
  
  They managed to make a good game with all of the feats sticking together neatly. Only at the middle 
 of the game i got a little bit bored, but the curve gets increasing when going to the last tertiary 
 of the game progress. So i consider this still as a big plus. 
  
  The Health-System also reminds me a little bit of Guildwars and is very helpful regarding the flow 
 of the game. As you can play continously, and still die often enough :D
  
  I dont know how long i still find the singleplayer fun, but im looking forward to experience COD2's 
 multiplayer qualities.
  
  Good Evil Karma. ^_^ 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CoolDude34519
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jan 22, 2006 7:48 pm PT
Review:  Let me first say that I have never really played a WWII game before, simply because they bored 
 me quickly. I never really liked the clunky guns and the basically the whole WWII environment. 
 But ever since I played COD2, my whole perspective changed. What I expected from COD2 was a "Medal 
 of Honor, same game, same concepts" type game. Little did I know that this game would exceed my 
 whole expectations.
  
  Graphics: If you have the PC powerful enough to run this game at DX9 settings with dynamic lights 
 and all other details on high, this game looks absolutely amazing. Much detail is present in the 
 the whole COD2 enviroment. It is quite hard for me to explain how immersive the graphics are, so 
 look at the screenshots to see what I mean.
  
  Sound: The sound, like the graphics, is completely immersive and authentic. There is always someone 
 screaming commands and things like "Grenade" and feels like you're really in the war. 
  
  Value: The single player doesn't take that long to complete, so fortunately there is multiplayer 
 after single player. COD2 has many multiplayer modes including Deathmatch, Team Deathmatch, and 
 CTF.
  
  Overall, this game is an excellent buy and would be awesome for people who likes these types of 
 games and even people who don't like these types of WWII games. If you have a powerful enough of 
 a PC to play this, I highly recommend Call of Duty 2. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CaptainCrazy
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 22, 2006 7:27 pm PT
Review:  I don't know which horse has been beaten to death worse, the GTA rip-offs or the WWII first person 
 shooters. This genre is already well overdone on the original Xbox and it takes a really stellar 
 game to stand out in the crowd these days. Call of Duty 2 manages to do WWII combat better than 
 any other game out there and that's why it is still a great game. 
  
  For those who have played many WWII shooters on consoles or the PC, you won't find anything ground 
 breaking in this game in terms of gameplay or story. What you will be treated to is the most realistic 
 immersion into a warzone you've ever experienced. This is achievable due to the Xbox 360's brute 
 graphics processing power and amazing 5.1 surround sound support. There is no other shooter as 
 visually or auditorilly astounding as this game. 
  
  Every texture of the environment is rendered in incredibly high detail giving you an amazing high 
 definition treat for your eyes. Character models still don't look really life-like in the face 
 but there is still just so much detail in everything else. Tanks, jeeps and artillery guns are 
 full of every little detail so even up close they look like the real thing. I believe the most 
 impressive and innovative graphics feature though, is the realism of smoke and dust. This game 
 makes full use of Xbox 360's power to produce huge amounts of realistic smoke from explosions, 
 grenades and other smouldering ruins and this is no easy task. You will also see a lot of sand 
 and dust kicked up in the desert missions. Perhaps they made use of smoke a little too much because 
 I was dissapointed that I couldn't see very much of the actual flames from explosions. There are 
 occassions where you will see the fireball but sadly, the developers still haven't managed to make 
 a good fireball effect. I guess this must be very hard to do becuase I haven't played a game yet 
 that had realistic explosions. One final note about the graphics; the game runs buttery smooth 
 at 60fps 99% of the time. No PC can put out graphics like this and run at rock solid frame rates. 
 Now if the developers had made the graphics overall look a little more realistic then I would have 
 to give it a perfect 10.
  
  The missions are action packed from beginning to end. There is nothing sneaky or covert about COD2. 
 You are immediately thrown into an insane, chaotic battle with many of your comrades fighting alongside 
 you. Above are plains dog fighting while artillery shells explode all around you. The screams and 
 frantic yells of allies and the enemy can be heard constantly as bullets and tracer fire zip by 
 your head. This is just my way of giving you a small description of a small part of what the action 
 is like. 
  
  Most of the fighting takes place with you in the thick of the action surrounded by allied soldiers 
 fighting with you which helps to give you the feeling of being part of a large scale assault. But 
 the downside is that your helpful little buddies always get in your way. For example, you're ducking 
 behind some crates for cover while peaking out to shoot at the enemy then suddenly you realize 
 you can't move back to cover because an ally has sat down right beside you. I think they should 
 have just let you be able to push them out of the way so this creates some frustrating moments.
 
  
  One of the more interesting aspects of the game is the absence of a health bar. It may seem strange 
 or scary but really it is much better than the standard health system. When you get shot the screen 
 flashes red in the direction you were hit from so there won't be any cheap kills where you can't 
 find your killer. Also the whole perimeter of the screen will glow red when you are almost dead 
 giving you a few seconds to duck into cover and while you are resting you regain your "health". 
 This feature eliminates the constant watching of your health and encourages you to take risks because 
 there is always time to recover if you happen to get shot up really bad. Even if you die your respawn 
 area is not far from where you died thanks to the many checkpoints.
  
  On the downside I was dissapointed that this "next-gen" game doesn't have many destructable areas. 
 There is the odd crates and barrels you can destroy but not much else which is a real shame and 
 detracts from the realism the rest of the game provides. Thankfully some variety is thrown in, 
 in the form of vehicle missions where you take control of a tank or ride on a jeep. Here you can 
 finally get to blow up lots of other vehicles and objects and some of these missions are extremely 
 fun.
  
  The sound perfectly matches the caliber of the graphics. With a 5.1 surround sound system you will 
 be literally ducking for cover as you swear there is a tank about to roll right into your living 
 room! Big booms and deep base from explosions will shake your boots and the loud crackle and sputtering 
 of weapons fire will jolt you out of your chair. There is just so much going on visually and audibly 
 in this game that it all comes together to give you the most intense WWII shooter anywhere.
  
  Sadly I do not have anything good to say about the online play becuase, well, I could only 
 log in once and that was only for a few minutes until I got disconnected. Everywhere you go you 
 will find people complaining that they cannot log into an online game at all. Activision wrote 
 an apology at www. xbox. com and gives empty promises that they are working to fix these issues. 
 As far as I can see they totally dropped the ball on the online component. There is hardly any 
 options for customizing online games as well. Maybe the game was rushed to meet the launch deadline 
 and multiplayer had to suffer but I sure hope that they come up with a good fix for the disconnect 
 and lag issues soon.
  
  As it stands, COD2 is one of the best single player games on the Xbox 360. It has great graphics 
 with some surprisingly good use of smoke and other environmental effects. The action is frantic, 
 fast and fun to play and the sound will knock your socks off. Just don't expect much when you try 
 playing on Xbox Live just yet. If you are hoping for some great online action then check out Perfect 
 Dark Zero. COD2 can't quite shake off that compromised launch game feel but it is still a very 
 good accomplishment and showcase for the Xbox 360 thus far.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Axsuul
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jan 22, 2006 2:53 pm PT
Review:  This is one of the most realistic World War II shooters out there. Especially if you play it on 
 the hardest difficulty setting, you will find yourself taking cover behind whatever is out there 
 and strategically dodging machine gun fire or providing yourself smoke cover. 
  
  The campaign stretches across three different factions where you will be playing as the Russians, 
 British, and Americans. There is no health bar by the way so the only way you can tell how injured 
 you are your rate of breathing or when you are almost dying there will be flashes of red on your 
 screen. The graphics are simply amazing but I haven't tried the multiplayer yet. Recommended. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: emy_vi
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jan 22, 2006 1:31 pm PT
Review:  This game is really great...
  The graphics are amazing, and we can even choose to use Direct-X 7 or Direct-X 9 to render the 
 game. It means low spec machine also can play this game quite good with playable framerates... 
 but if u have a monster machine at your home, this game will look far more better...
  When i first played this game, i was quite bored with its beginning... but when i played America-Germany 
 war campaign, i felt alive... it was great, and i am looking forward to play the game again, if 
 i have a spare time... hahahaha... because if u start playing this game, u just cannot stop... 
 
  
  but very sad, it is way too short than i expected... i can even finish this game in a day... arghhhhhhh, 
 now what?? i hope Activision / Infinityward will release an expansion pack for this game... it's 
 TOO short, man... they should make the gameplay a little longer... arghhh, please... i'm addicted 
 to WWII FPS genre game especially like CoD series... 
  
  OK... that's all... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bigammer915
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jan 21, 2006 6:20 pm PT
Review:  I'm was a fan of the first one which was a little short and easy for me and when i got this one 
 i was totally blown away. First of all the graphics are amazing (don't believe the crap gamespot 
 says about lag in this game it's not true.) Also its a varied campaign you could be fighting in 
 the steets of Russia than be fighting in Africa in a tank the next. Also, the difficulty is very 
 well set (im almost done with veteran at this point 2 missions left) because for new PC FPS gamers 
 recuit is good and if your like me i went to hardened first or veterean. The only real downside 
 is that the game is too short and when your really addicted to it the game ends. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: andrewswallow
Rating: 7.6
Date: Jan 21, 2006 12:39 pm PT
Review:  Call of Duty 2, what can I say?
  
  For starters I am impressed that the graphics are very high, with the models looking smooth.
 
  
  The gameplay was good, and quite easy to control, but with the odd reaching over the keyboard to 
 get the keys for the commands.
  
  However, even with the high graphics and my computer now starting to slip from the top of the high-end 
 table, the graphics could have been increased with no problem of lag issues.
  
  The main is laid out nicely, but the cursor may not be on the text to allow it to be clickable, 
 so maybe this was laziness that there couldn't be bothered the crop the images or that it was a 
 deliberate action.
  
  I was like "Oh its finished?" when the credits just started to roll on the screen, I would have 
 prefered the game to last longer than it actually does... Yes, time had been sent for good details, 
 but it would have been nice for another location to play in.
  
  My conclusion is that its a good game with high hopes of the 3rd being a masterpiece of a game.
 
  I would recommend this game, as the multiplayer will allow many extra hours of enjoyment.
  
  Thank you for reading! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: supercrazymike
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jan 20, 2006 6:25 pm PT
Review:  This is hard to explain how this game is good. You get to fight with Russia, USA, England. The 
 maps are superb and filled with new stuff like the animation, or the way your friends talk, telling 
 you infos about where is the enemy situated and much more. There is new options. And wow!
  
  one of the greatest battle was Point Du Hoc (it's the americains arriving in Normandy by beach) .
 
  
  Also, if you have doubts about how well can your computer run it, download the demo and judge by 
 yourself.
  
  really, you should get this game! best WWII game out in my opinion.
  
  This game is for all fans of first person shooter (even if WWII games is not your speciality, and 
 if it is, you will be pleased.)
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: mark9158
Rating: 9.2
Date: May 21, 2006 3:37 am PT
Review:  Graphics, sounds, game play, atmosphere, especially 3d engine is all very good but game is too 
 short (if you have time) . Game gives the feeling of what a war like is. AI is much developed from 
 the previous COD. You can die in seconds with raising your head. I often found myself thinking 
 how to approach the enemy in the battlefield. There is no health bar nor first aid kits in the 
 game, instead when you hit your vision blurs, breathing fastens and you have to find a cover immediately 
 for recover. Weapons are various as you can take from opponents also. Looking forward for expansions. 
 Must play. An update: I taste the multiplayer after writing this review. I am playing on servers 
 quite often and still dont get bored. Most enjoyable multiplayer game I have ever played. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Darksamurai900
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 20, 2006 12:06 pm PT
Review:  Boy am I glad that the developers of Call of Duty 2 decided to put it on not just the xbox360. 
 But also putting it on the PC. For anybody who is a fan of this series you should be proud to find 
 out that this is one of the two games that has been recognized by the veteran's of WWII to historically 
 accurate. Also the fans get to play as the Russians, British, and the good old Americans. The Game 
 is so awesome that it is not even funny. What I mean is that it is polished six ways from Sunday. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Wild_Card
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jan 20, 2006 10:50 am PT
Review:  Firts let me state that i may be sligtly biased on this game. I have a great intrest in most things 
 WW2 and thus may make me see this game threw rose colored glasses :) . 
  
  CoD2 is in fact a fun game to play. CoD2 does not stray to far from the first CoD and its expasion. 
 the game puts you onb a more or less set patch how ever this actualy leads to a more intense exp. 
 Graphics in CoD2 is defenitly uped from the last game. Some people have complained that the graphics 
 are not up to Doom3, HL2 ect how ever alot of people neglect to think about just how massive most 
 of the battles are in CoD2. 
  
  Sound is also much improved over the last outing as well. i happen to own a m1A1 30 cal carbine 
 and i can confirm that the moddle in game sounds very close to the real things minus the echo. 
 
  
  The level disign is well done and the paceing of the story is great. You never get bord that for 
 sure. All though the mission objectives can kinda run togather. The multi play is almost just like 
 the first game, even has some of the same maps ect.
  
  Now for the bad, First the AI is horrible. for a game that relies heavy on squad tactics and "No 
 one fights alone" game play the friendly AI is hardly friendly lol. thay are eather standing right 
 in your way or standing in the very spot were thay can do nothing at all. and what compounds this 
 is while the german AI is good enough it for some reson tends to single the player out in situations 
 like abushes even when there are multible squade mates around you. 
  
  Also The game is not im my exp with it optomized well. the FRP is far lower than need to be in 
 a given situation. also iv incounted times were the game will slow to around 3 FPS. im guessing 
 a memmory leak of some kind. i will have to exit the game and restart and only some times will 
 that work. and keep in mind my specs run doom2, HL2, Q4 at highst settings and fear at high settings. 
 hopefully the first patch wich is do out soon will help smooth things out.
  
  Also like the first game i find that online even in "sucure" rooms is slap full of cheating. far 
 to many one shoot kills and guys who can take 4 times the number of hits others can not to mentune 
 the guys who magicly move twice as fast as others. some of those things can be blamed on lag, packet 
 loos ext but not in the level it happens. even in low ping servers. like the first game this will 
 ease up for a few weeks after a new patch with a freash version of punk buster but will pick up 
 once the makers of mods and cheats hack it lol. 
  
  All in all the game is worth buying how ever i would recommend that if your not 100% in love with 
 this type of game you wait for a price drop. 49.99 walmart price is steap for this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nkenobi
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jan 20, 2006 8:19 am PT
Review:  This is the kind of game that I can sit and play for long periods of time. Fairly clever AI and 
 nice weapon balance really help support this. Probably the thing that stands out the most is the 
 cinematic and epic experience received while playing COD2. Having a plane swoop down to the ground 
 so close you can almost feel the heat of the engines, and watching in horror as it sprays the ground 
 taking out a multitude of your allies is defiantly a sight, and sure gets that adrenalin rushing. 
 Graphics were extremely nice as well, and I have no complaints there either.
  
  Now for what did suck. Lack of physics... Little baskets stick to the ground, and fallen comrades 
 play death animations rather than bailing out with some nice rag doll effects.
  The single player also got very repetitive after a while, it felt same old, same old as I when 
 through it. AI started using all the same tactics, and things really started to get old. However, 
 the same cannot be said for multi player. Well balanced game play and well designed maps keeps 
 multi player alive for a long time, and I have found myself playing it for full days at a time.
 
  
  Over all a great game defiantly worth buying, with a few minor drawbacks.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: -Agarwaen-
Rating: 6.6
Date: Jan 20, 2006 1:47 am PT
Review:  
  This game was a big let down for me. I am a huge Call of Duty fan and bought this game the day 
 it came out and only played for about 8 hours before i was bored silly. If u are new to WW2 FPS's 
 then you will like this game, if u play Call of Duty: United Offense or F. E. A. R. or Battlefield 
 2 there is no reason to get this game.
  
  Graphics: Good graphics that improve upon the old game. Smoke grenades and blowing snow and sand 
 look great. Nice textures, lighting and shadows are improved. Corpse and object physics are crappy 
 in this game and no where near the quality of other 2005 FPS titles. I was really hoping for a 
 improved more realistic physics engine like in HL:2 or F. E. A. R. after seeing what those games can 
 do this game just seems bleh. Other than that it looks great if u have a nice computer and high 
 end video card. If u don't have those u will most likely experience lag at intense moments that 
 will get you shot.
  
  Gameplay: No more mutliplayer Vehicles, No more deployable heavy machines guns like in UO, and 
 no more sprinting. WHY? I can't understand why these aren't in the game since they where in the 
 old game and most certainly around in WW2. I thought this game was about realism?
  
  Sound: Excellent sound, very immersive. Some guns sound a little weak while other sound a little 
 better than the previous game.
  
  Singleplayer: Extemely linear scripted predictable shooting gallery as in every previous game nothing 
 new. No replay value. AI has been improved tho.
  
  Multiplayer: No punkbuster, way too many of same old boring french and russian maps from the first 
 game. The lack of new intresting maps is pathetic and not worth my 50$. The desert maps are pretty 
 cool tho.
  
  Overall Value: Not worth the money. It takes more than better graphics for me to like a sequeI. 
 I really REALLY wanted to like this game, but being a vetern of Cod: UO i just couldn't get into 
 a lesser product. If u played Cod: UO don't even waste your money. On the other hand if u are new 
 to WW2 shooter games and have a good system i recommend this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: WrlrdDrake5
Rating: 7
Date: Jan 19, 2006 5:54 pm PT
Review:  Going right down the line.
  
  Graphics: Aparently they're good. What I've seen of them, they're alright. The engine needs some 
 work. I have a 9800 pro, and I have to use the DX7 option if I want any framerate at all.
  
  Sound: Not bad. Not great either.
  
  Gameplay: Oh, boy. Well, the bad guys ar OK. Par with 
 what else is out there. The Allies are not very bright, though. On more than one occasion, I've 
 seen them shooting the cover in front of them trying to hit the enemy in front of them. That's 
 not to mention all the times they run in front of you while you're shooting. And game over if you 
 accidently (or otherwise) kill them.
  Multiplayer is standard multiplayer; nothing outstanding there.
  
  All in all, not a bad game. 
 Plenty of historical tidbits for those that like it. Get the Collectors Edition if you do. It has 
 making of films and a Ranger documentary. It feels rushed at times, but if you're willing to overlook 
 that, it's an enjoyable experience. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BtMav
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jan 17, 2006 8:44 pm PT
Review:  Call of Duty 2 for the pc is one of the greatest games available right now. In my opinion, it was 
 what exactly what i was looking for and MORE! The muliplayer and single player campaign were both 
 very addicting. The smoke effect on this game is the best by far and future war games will have 
 a hard time competing with this one. I expected the multiplayer action to be a little better, it 
 didnt disappoint me but i was just as impressed with the fist game. Im just making up stuff now 
 because this has to be 100 words and i dont have that many. Sorry but hurray for PC games and keep 
 on rocking o and i love BLINK AND HIM sorry. Hurray for Cod 2 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hackerdork
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jan 17, 2006 12:38 pm PT
Review:  
  Those of you that are fans of a military FPS will love COD2.
  
  This game is a bit slow to start in single player mod as you need to follow the story line. I could'nt 
 wait to start blasting. A good set of speakers and a sound card with EAX just makes this World 
 War II shoot go over the top.
  
  You're best freind in this game is you ability to shot, run and duck for cover. Don't play this 
 game just to blow stuff up as you will miss some of the most realistic rendering of build and people 
 I have seen. You can get up close and personal with people using the binoculars and see even the 
 blemishes on their face.
  
  Then you start shooting away, laying down explosives and a few head shots later you are into the 
 game. I love using the smoke greades to confuse the enemy the blow them away.
  
  Loved it. Can't wait for more of the same.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: bountyhunterj
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jan 17, 2006 10:46 am PT
Review:  I here today to review a game that changed the look of first person shooters based in World War 
 II, Call of Duty. Now, I am not going to go into detail about the first one or the expansions, 
 but review the newest one, Call of Duty 2: Big Red One for the PC and Xbox 360. A demo for it came 
 out and I was able to enjoy a level of the game. The level was entitled Farewell to Friends and 
 was situated in Troina, Sicily. I started out with an assortment of weapons including the M1 Garand, 
 Bar, and Thompson but was able to pick up some of the new Italian weaponry available in the game 
 from fallen enemies. The first thing I had noticed off the bat with the game was the lack of a 
 health bar. In Call of Duty 2, you take will bite the dust if you get hit a certain number of times 
 in a relatively short time (I myself had almost died when the game told me that I was being shot 
 a lot and that I should take cover) . The same game elements are present such as looking down the 
 sights and diving for cover, but now you are able to jump over obstacles with more flair. In the 
 game, there was a German hiding behind some sandbags. While my team and I provided suppressing 
 fire, I was able to sprint up to the sandbags and was able to perform a move where I leaped over 
 the sandbags and right on top of the German's head, killing him. Also, as I walked up to windows, 
 I had the option of climbing onto the windowsill instead of trying to awkward jumping through them 
 in the previous ones. As stated above, the weapons in the game are not much different than in the 
 previous ones, but they are a little more realistic. I found myself shooting only while looking 
 down the sights of the gun. The game is designed where it is extremely hard to kill someone without 
 aiming down the sights. The only time I didn't use the sight was when I was running into a room 
 providing suppression fire while trying to dive behind a table. The Thompson proved extremely useful 
 for this type of fire, but even so I was still hammered by gunfire. Grenades are easier to use 
 whereas instead of selecting them to use, you just hit a button and the grenade is thrown. The 
 great advantage to this is that after the grenade is thrown, the game rearms you with the gun you 
 had before you threw it. This makes nading a room quicker and easier and allows you to start firing 
 right after you throw the grenade instead of having to reselect your weapon. Enemy and Ally AI 
 is bumped up with enemies always trying to gain cover and allies provide better covering fire and 
 even through smoke grenades to cross certain areas. Grenades are used a little more than they used 
 to and almost everywhere you go you need to dive behind some sort of cover. In conclusion, this 
 game will cause even the Medal of Honor series to revamp itself again and imply some of these elements 
 as well. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: essam24
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jan 17, 2006 5:58 am PT
Review:  the amazing graphics (depending on your resolution) ! This is quite possibly the best Historic World 
 War II First Person Shooter I've have ever played. he only thing i could truely desire is more 
 Russian campaigns. Other than that in my eyes this game is absolutely flawless. The sounds are 
 beautiful. As I am in Stalingrad i slowly await a german MG42 to stop firing. The rounds fade away. 
 Then with a thrilling shock I hear the familiar soundtrack go of when i rip through the enemy trenches 
 that plagued me for so long. Another thing that is amazing is the pure capabilites of customization. 
 All the controls are customizable to your liking making this game easy to handle! 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: amogley
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jan 17, 2006 4:21 am PT
Review:  Love it or hate it .. the WWII genre continues strongly on the PC platform even though most people 
 would think that it has reached it's limit now.
  
  Call Of Duty 2 adds another title (albeit a sequel) to the growing list of WW2 FPS games. But what 
 does it really *add* to the genre?
  
  On first playing, two things will strike you .. OMG it's exactly the same .. and OMG look at those 
 graphics!! ... and that really sums up the game (review over then? .. not quite)
  
  Veterens of CoD1 and the expansion pack United Offensive, will feel right at home. The mission 
 based structure and linear approach to the missions remains essentially the same but with slightly 
 different scenarios and locations. The british missions now take place in the desert for example. 
 
  
  For each mission, you work through each of the objectives with new goals being added as you go 
 along. A compass on the screen leads you in the right direction for your current objective so you 
 don't get lost. 
  
  Ordinarily this would be as linear as hell and most people would complain that the game would be 
 boring. But here, the CoD series has always excelled over its counterparts. The missions, the battles, 
 and firefights are brilliantly scripted and sculpted. They are ultra intense, and you really feel 
 like you have been in a battle. Throughout most of the missions you will be part of a squad who 
 fight alongside you, and you will have the feeling that you are playing a multiplayer game even 
 though this is really SinglePlayer. Unfortunately you will be occasionally be reminded that this 
 is all handled by AI by teammates doing some dumb stunts .. but don't we see that online too.
 
  On the harder sets, the missions can be difficult to complete, and can be challenging (leading 
 to frustrating) when your AI team mates fail to deliver. 
  
  Again, you will be able to play through the game as a soldier in the allied armies of Russian, 
 British, and American. A nice touch here though, is the ability to play through each without having 
 to complete the previous one. So you can complete a mission in the russian campaign which may unlock 
 a mission in the american campaign.
  
  To complete your missions, you have at your disposal the standard array of WWII weaponary. Including 
 Smoke Grenades which apart from looking spectacularily real on high end cards, bring a whole new 
 strategic element to the game (especially in the multiplayer) , smoke can do a great job of hiding 
 you from annoying mg's or snipers. Learn to use it well and smoke will become a great friend (and 
 you will miss it when you don't have it - believe me)
  
  Whilst on the subject of graphics, the game looks gorgeous ... if your card can support it. The 
 models, scenery, and graphics look fantastic. Unfortunately during the run and gun melee, you don't 
 get to stop and enjoy the sites, everything flies by at breakneck speed but the details are there 
 believe me.
  
  The multiplayer game has always been intense, but then again most of the online shooters are always 
 intense. Where CoD2 benefits over it's rivals is in the number of different gameplay types that 
 are available. From deathmatch and team deathmatch, to the standard CTF, and the quite different 
 "Search and Destroy" and "Capture the Headquarters" (with a distinctly CS feel to the match) .
 
  
  So where does the game fail? The major question mark for most hangs over the "health" aspect of 
 the game. There are no longer any medpacks to heal you and there is no longer a health meter displayed 
 in the HUD to alert you to your state of health. Instead the developers have opted for a method 
 of automatic healing. If you take hits during a firefight, simply stay out of the line of fire 
 for a short while and you will miraculously heal back to health. Some people like this, some people 
 hate this, and there are arguments from both camps. But does it detract from the gameplay ... well 
 not as far as I was concerned.
  
  The only other minus points, it demands a good PC, and a fairly decent graphics card but what top-end 
 titles doesn't these days. The difficulty is just right. People new to the genre might struggle, 
 but veterans should be able to cope reasonably easily. You can always crank up the settings a notch 
 to push your own personal "envelopes" just that little bit further.
  
  Overall the game does what it does well. The sounds are arguably the best in the genre. The music 
 and the move clips give it a very cinematic feel.
  If you like this genre, you will find it highly immersive, and enjoyable (occasionally frustrating) . 
 But if you complete the game, you will leave it with some very fond memories and there are gameplay 
 moments that you will never forget .... and from a personal point of view , I could ask any more 
 from any game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shootme437
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 16, 2006 2:13 pm PT
Review:  I would like to say that this game is awsome. it toltay rules. If you are a fan of the first, like 
 me this game is for you. THE multiplayer in the the game is so good i havent ever play the signle 
 player yet. but i plan to. i havent spent that much time on the game yet because i just got it 
 but i problr play like 400 hours on this game. i say anybody who like cod or WW 2 games this is 
 a must have. i dont know why gamespot gave this game a 8.8 it should so get a ten 
::::::

::::::
UserName: coolio26
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jan 16, 2006 11:36 am PT
Review:  
  This game is great. It worked really well on my computer and looked 
  
  stunning. Its a little short, but you can always switch to multiplayer for 
  
  hours of fun! 
 The sound is unbelievable, especially if you have a $25,000 
  
  stereo system. For everybody else, its still great. It's nice that you can 
  
  bring down 
 the game's settings to work on a DX 7 computer, but you lose 
  
  all the next-gen detail. The game is truly a lot of fun, though. So buy it if you
  
  love shooting 
 things really good, but not for a really long time. That's all i 
  
  have to say, but to make up the hundred words, I'll post a song. 
  
  You can't touch this (Repeat 
 5x)
  
  My, my, my music hits me so hard
  Makes me say "Oh my Lord"
  Thank you for blessing me
  With a mind to rhyme and two hype feet
  It feels good, when you 
 know you're down
  A super dope homeboy from the O-town
  And I'm known as such
  And this is a beat, uh, you can't touch
  
  I told you homeboy (You can't touch this)
  Yeah, 
 that's how we living and you know (You can't touch this)
  Look at my eyes, man (You can't touch this)
  Yo, let me bust the funky lyrics (You can't touch 
 this)
  
  Fresh new kicks, advance
  You gotta like that, now you know you wanna dance
  So move, outta your seat
  And get a fly girl and catch this beat
  While it's rolling, hold 
 on
  Pump a little bit and let 'em know it's going on
  Like that, like that
  Cold on a mission so fall them back
  Let 'em know, that you're too much
  And this is a beat, 
 uh, you can't touch
  
  Yo, I told you (You can't touch this)
  Why you standing there, man? (You can't touch this)
  Yo, sound the bell, school is in, sucka 
 (You can't touch this)
  
  Give me a song, or rhythm
  Make 'em sweat, that's what I'm giving 'em
  Now, they know
  You talking about the Hammer you 
 talking about a show
  That's hype, and tight
  Singers are sweating so pass them a wipe
  Or a tape, to learn
  What's it gonna take in the 90's to burn
  The charts? Legit
  Either 
 work hard or you might as well quit
  
  That's word because you know... 
  
  You can't touch this (Repeat 2x)
  
  Break it down! (Music breaks down) Stop, Hammer time!
 
  
  Go with the funk, it is said
  That if you can't groove to this then you probably are dead
  So wave your hands in the air
 
  Bust a few moves, run your fingers through your hair
  This is it, for a winner
  Dance to this and you're gonna get thinner
  Move, slide your rump
  Just for a minute let's 
 all do the bump, bump, bump
  
  Yeah... (You can't touch this)
  Look, man (You can't touch this)
  You better get hype, boy, because you know (You can't touch 
 this)
  Ring the bell, school's back in
  
  Break it down! (Music breaks down) Stop, Hammer time!
  
  You can't touch this (Repeat 3x)
 
  
  Break it down! (Music breaks down) Stop, Hammer time!
  
  Every time you see me
  The Hammer's just so hype
  I'm dope on the floor and I'm magic on the mic
  Now why would I 
 ever stop doing this?
  With others making records that just don't hit
  I've toured around the world, from London to the Bay
  It's "Hammer, go Hammer, MC Hammer, yo 
 Hammer"
  And the rest can go and play
  
  You can't touch this (Repeat 7x)
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Curufinwe8
Rating: 8.2
Date: Jan 16, 2006 10:41 am PT
Review:  Gameplay: Singleplayer is good, but that isn't even 1/4 of what makes up a truly remarkable FPS 
 game. Multiplayer is lacking.
  
  Graphics: Top notch, though smoke grenades and just regular smoke kicked up during combat is excessive.
 
  
  Sound: Music is really nothing to write home about, and the sound of guns isn't anything special. 
 I just turn on ym WWII german military anthems.
  
  Value: 50 dollars (USD) For this game is excessive. Once we get a few patches out, then it will 
 be worth top dollar.
  
  WHat was a step back: -Maps meant for a kiddie console of 20 people have to dulfill the needs of 
 a 60 person server.
  -Lack of jeeps, tanks, heavy weapons or the maps to utlize them.
  -No punkbuster so shameless cheating is apparent. 
  -Guns have been tweaked to attract the kiddies 
 from halo and WoW. the PPSH has virtually no recoil now and can damn near snipe. One bullet from 
 a bar in the hip can kill. Rifles have been toned down.... again to appeal to halo kids. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: holback111
Rating: 4.6
Date: Jan 16, 2006 8:25 am PT
Review:  When compared to the precious release in this series, Call of Duty United Offensive, the multiplayer 
 in CoD2 is just plain bad.
  Released with no Anti-Cheat software (UO was) . Alot of the same exploits that were repaired in 
 UO and CoD are found again in CoD2??????
  The box says it will run on 64k video card... good luck with this one.
  UO has drivable jeeps 
 and tanks in MP, CoD2 does not
  UO has capability to sprint, CoD2 does not.
  UO is based on a 64k game engine making it a pleasure to mod, CoD2 is 16k making it nearly impossible 
 to eben build a small custom map.
  UO came with PunkBuster Anti-Cheat, CoD2 does not.
  There is so much dust and smoke in the maps in CoD2 that you're lucky to get over 30fps out of 
 a 128k video card???
  The only thing new in sequal is the graphics, they look good, but are video memory killers. The 
 new maps are pretty good. The single player is just awesome.
  
  After a patch that incudes fixing guns that dead players have dropped from floating and spinning 
 in mid-air, player hit (kill) boxes that are not consistant, being able to see guns and body-parts 
 sticking through walls and adding a good Anti-Cheat this game may be worth the 60 bucks I paid 
 for it.
  Is this what PC gaming is coming to? Making a game for the console and porting it to the PC? What 
 happened to good old platform independent programming? How can you call this a sequal when it has 
 less options and features the its previous release? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jaym09
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jan 16, 2006 8:05 am PT
Review:  When I first read the reviews of this game, I was skeptical about the whole health issue (not using 
 medpacks, but allowing you to "rest") ; however, I came to love the game the more I played it. I 
 played it on normal setting and it was still tough. 
  
  The graphics were very well done as well. Lots of energy throughout the game made it an enjoyable 
 experience. One of my favorite levels was the Silo level and trying to snipe the mortar teams before 
 they blew you up.
  
  I am planning on going back and playing on vetran. I recommend the game to anyone who like FPS 
 games. The game play was great and the graphics were good as well.
  
  Highly recommended. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tehkillerkoala
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 16, 2006 7:50 am PT
Review:  This game should be played by anyone with a good pc!!! If you don't have a good pc then that really 
 sux, go play it on 360 (PC IS BETTER) . Also I have surround sound for my pc and this game brings 
 a new meaning to instensity when you hear bullets behind you. The graphics were unlike anything 
 I had ever seen, especially on D-Day when water is splashing everywhere. Despite the fact that 
 the gameplay is unbelievable, it is VERY VERY short. I beat the game in a couple of days but thankfully 
 for Activision the multiplayer is great. It's fast paced and has the basic fps modes like team 
 death match, capture the flag, and even search and destroy which is reminiscent of counter strike. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 7ranc3
Rating: 8.2
Date: Jan 16, 2006 4:56 am PT
Review:  Set in the overdone WWII setting, this is a still a game worth visiting. It places you right in 
 the middle of the action of famous WWII spots that you have probably visited before, although proably 
 not as engrossing nor as thrilling. With a good sound system and great graphics, you feel the explosions 
 going off a kilometre away. 
  
  This game is definitely worth playing if you like FPS games, and if not, just for some of the best 
 graphics to ever appear on the computer. My only beef with it was that even at it hardest setting 
 it took less than 12 hours to beat. Beyond that the online play is pretty standard fare, and with 
 games like BF2 out for online players, this game wont stand up against that. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: flicker66
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jan 16, 2006 3:01 am PT
Review:  I'd gone right through COD 1 on all four difficulty levels and thought I was becoming pretty good... until 
 I bought this!
  
  Using skills you learned on the original game, you'll be greatly challenged this time around as 
 the gameplay is even faster, slicker and more action-packed than ever. Each mission is full to 
 bursting with danger, action and just plain noise and you really need your wits about you as you 
 push on through. 
  
  The open-endedness of a good deal of the individual missions means that there are several ways 
 to complete a level so you're not obliged to hit that objective before going onto the next as in 
 COD 1. 
  
  Everything's been expanded and upgraded from the original game. I even found that the phrases and 
 accents used by various characters to be realistic so be prepared to hear some barrack room language 
 here and there! 
  
  At least one character, Captain Price, makes a return here which is strange because he never made 
 it off the Tirpitz-sinking mission in the previous game! It's also great that the Desert Rats' 
 fantastic desert campaign under Monty gets a staring role here and their environments contrast 
 with the bitter snows of Stalingrad during Operation Barbarossa, Hitler's disasterous invasion 
 of Russia.
  
  The guys at Infinity Ward have really done their homework here so there's a great deal of authenticity 
 about the weapons, environments and 'feel' of the game. If there's a COD 3 planned I'd like to 
 see some of the more unusual 2nd World War theatres be featured such as the defence of Malta, possibly 
 the Scandinavian or Pacific theatres. Taking on the Japs at Singapore or even the Italians at Monte 
 Cassino might be pretty good.
  
  All in all, this is a winner. If you're only planning on buying one FPS this year, make it this 
 one as you won't be sorry. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: theking52
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jan 15, 2006 8:38 pm PT
Review:  ok first thing... graphics. they're not the best there is but the amount of things going on at 
 any given time... WOW! the sound... all the soldiers. play this with digital 5.1 surround and you'll 
 feel like you're in the war. that's all i can say. other than its standard length for shooters 
 a little over 10 hrs but its a lot of fun while it lasts that's for sure.
  
  at easier difficulties its not a great challenge but at harder ones where you die in a couple of 
 hits just as the enemy does make you seem like just another soldier in the war trying to fight 
 his way. and thats the wayto play the game and make it more enjoyable. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Acurev
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 15, 2006 7:37 pm PT
Review:  Call of Duty 2 is a WWII FPS BUT it manages to do something the others cant. Its got something 
 special the others dont have. 
  
  Graphics: The Graphics are stunning and throughout the game youll see some of the best visual effects 
 ive ever seen in any game ever! Everything looks so real from character models to snow, rain, etc 
 effects, fire, smoke, explosions, lighting, the list goes on. Everything is perfect and performance 
 despite what lots of people say is pretty good. I was able to run it real nice on my AMD 64 3000+, 
 1GB Ram, 6600GT system.
  
  Sound: Sound plays a huge role in this game and it really draws you into it. From your men screaming 
 to their men screaming to explosions, and everything in between. Voice acting is VERY well done 
 and very believable.
  
  Gameplay: The gameplay is very nice. Its easy to get into and is good for fans of general FPS games. 
 This is really one of my first WWII FPS games and ive tried others and didnt like the gameplay 
 but this game fit the bill just nice. Aiming is done down the barrel instead of with a reticle 
 which adds to. There are also no healt packs but rather your screen will turn red when your taking 
 to much damage and you need to stay out of fire to revive your health. This innovative health system 
 works really nice.
  
  Story: The story is your typical WWII story with not much done to make it different from the others. 
 It is however pretty interesting. Youll see very well laid out cutscenes of real footage from WWII. 
 And ill admit I got a little emotional during the American campaigne.
  
  Overall: If a game can make me break down and cry its gotta be good. This games tells a GREAT story. 
 The levels are all different so theres no way youll get bored with it. The game does an amazing 
 job at sucking you into the surroundings and you really feel like your fighting in WWII.
  
  Definitly a most have for all FPS Fans!! Ill definitly be playing through the game a few more times! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: d-dog33
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jan 15, 2006 11:34 am PT
Review:  I like call of duty because it is realistick and all the guns are real from world war ll . the 
 sound is very good it kinda seems like u are really in the war. Cool how you get to be the russieans, 
 british, and america but why didnt they put canada in it ? . . . . . . . . . .. . . . . . .. . 
 .. . .. . . ... . . .. . . . . . .. . . .. . .. . great game you should buy it but i dont know 
 what the prices are when it was bran new i got it for like 59.99 canadian
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Beefycake
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jan 15, 2006 11:18 am PT
Review:  We all can consider Call of Duty and instant classic in war games in gaming today. Well know for 
 its amazing sounds and more importantly its extremely intense battles and combat... we can pretty 
 say that Call of Duty 2 is once again a great edition in gaming.
  
  As you may know from the previous Call of Duty.. you can play in 4 campaign.. 3 of which you can 
 experience in the eyes of the Russian infantry.. the British army and in the us rangers.. Whether 
 you are defending your line in the freezing region of Russia.. or blowing up cannon in the deserts 
 with the British and even dashing through the beaches on D-day as an American.. this is what you 
 can expect in Call of Duty 2
  
  the improvement of Call of Duty 2 is greatly noticed as well
  
  the Graphics are outstanding 
 and the realism is too
  the sound is powerful and amazing
  the gaming is intense and the battle are memoriable
  
  Overall Call of Duty 2 is a must have 
 and must play... if you have played call of duty then play this one.. if you never heard of call 
 of duty.. then play either on son.. cause WERE GOING TO WAR!!!
  
  I give this game a F@%K ya!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kerry12424
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 15, 2006 9:12 am PT
Review:  Call of Duty 2 brings you great detail in what World War II was like. It shows the difficulties 
 that three different countries faced: Russia, England, and the United States of America. Russia 
 has much difficulty pushing the Germans out. England is doing the best they can to help libarate 
 Northern Africa. And of course, the United States are busy in Normandy. This game shows all that.
 
  
  The graphics are great, the sound is great, the gameplay is great; do I need to spell it out for 
 ya! I have completed the game, and it is definatly worth playing. And for you online adicts, it's 
 got multiplayer. Now get out there and go buy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Odhit
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jan 15, 2006 12:35 am PT
Review:  I loved the whole series of Call of Duty, and Call of Duty: United Offensive. They offer the greatest 
 World War II (and most alive) atmosphere I have ever felt. Remember, Nobody Fights Alone... We 
 Stand Alone Together!
  
  ****GAMEPLAY - 9/10
  The Single Player Campaigns won't get you bored, you should note. But some things have been missing 
 from the Call of Duty: United Offensive. Like the Grenade Cooking for example, and deployable Light 
 Machine Guns. If you have visited some sites about World War II, you WILL see very many similarities 
 between the Game's Environment and the Real-World's Environment. The D-Day Mission on Pointe Du 
 Hoc beach reflects the real lands out there in Normandy. Everytime your mates die, one will replace 
 him. But not always though, when too many mates are killed, and the reinforcements are taken out 
 also, you will have to face them yourself. This also goes for the Germans. No health bars here. 
 The new "Regenerating" health system DOES add a tactical theme to the game. You will have to go 
 slowly from cover to cover. Instead of running like idiots and then find some healthpacks. Both 
 Allies and Axis soldiers will talk to each other rather than commanding through telepathy.
  
  - Single Player/Multiplayer
  Infinity Ward, once again - concentrates more on the Single 
 Player, so you are more likely to love the Single Player Campaigns compared with the Multiplayer. 
 But if you are a MultiPlayer guy, Battlefield is the best for you. 
  
  ****GRAPHICS - 10/10
  The graphics were impressive, if you have the hardware that is. My New 
 computer is a [GeForce 7800 GTX 256.0MB, 200GBs of HDD, 3.4 GHz, P4] and the game runs like hot 
 knife through butter with 1024x768 Resolution and ALL settings on. Although I still have lags on 
 some points Right After a mission starts. Infinity Ward did use a new Graphics Engine built from 
 scratch. Not so one graphical elements from the Call of Duty series were "re-cooked".
  
  ****SOUNDS 10/10
  The sound effects are very-very realistic. If any of you have seen the Band 
 of Brothers series, you will see that the sounds are pretty same, and that Band of Brothers took 
 the weapon sounds from the original WWII D-Day Invasion Videos. The sound of a tank coming while 
 you are being stormed by a whole Company will surely make you have Goosebumps. 
  
  ****OVERALL 9.7/10
  For those who like intense story-driven Single Player First Person Shoother 
 WWII game, then this is your match. If you like SP and MP, get conversion mods for them if you're 
 bored. Wait for the Expansion or Sequel. 
  
  Buy or Rent?
  B U Y!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: slipknot9183
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jan 14, 2006 9:37 pm PT
Review:  the amazing graphics (depending on your resolution) ! This is quite possibly the best Historic World 
 War II First Person Shooter I've have ever played. he only thing i could truely desire is more 
 Russian campaigns. Other than that in my eyes this game is absolutely flawless. The sounds are 
 beautiful. As I am in Stalingrad i slowly await a german MG42 to stop firing. The rounds fade away. 
 Then with a thrilling shock I hear the familiar soundtrack go of when i rip through the enemy trenches 
 that plagued me for so long. Another thing that is amazing is the pure capabilites of customization. 
 All the controls are customizable to your liking making this game easy to handle! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HamanZz
Rating: 9.3
Date: Apr 5, 2006 9:19 pm PT
Review:  As in the first game, Call of Duty 2's campaign will put you in the shoes of a few different soldiers 
 fighting for different Allied factions. You start off as a private in the Russian army, visciously 
 fighting off the invading Germans in Moscow and Stalingrad. The British campaign is unlocked after 
 beating the first Russian mission. For most of these missions you'll be fighting in the sand-swept 
 deserts of North Africa alongside the Desert Rats against Field Marshal Rommel's troops. The final 
 mission in the British campaign sends you to the bombed-out houses and hedgerows of Caen, France. 
 After you're done with that, you'll play as an American corporal in Europe. Yes, you will be doing 
 a D-Day landing, but not on Omaha Beach or Utah Beach, which you've probably played several times 
 before. Instead, you'll be scaling the sheer cliffs of Pointe du Hoc as artillery with the Army 
 Rangers. If you already thought rock climbing was an "extreme" sport, try doing it with artillery 
 and machine-gun fire raining down on you 
::::::

::::::
UserName: duerdest
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 14, 2006 11:02 am PT
Review:  Call of Duty 2 is simply put on of the most immersing FPS around. It deals plenty of action in 
 a brilliant setting, WWII games keep coming but if this is anything to show for the future they 
 wont get old for a while.
  
  You play as three different nations. The Soviet will be fighting in the USSR, the USA fighting 
 in France/Germany and the British who spend most of thir time in Africa. While these locations 
 offer something else to look at the action remains similar throughout. That action being in your 
 face, loud, bloody and very intense.
  
  The game mechanics don't really chage the genre much, all the normal stuff is here but it is the 
 way it is delivered that makes this game so fun. Whether is be hiding in a sandy trench, crouching 
 behind a mound of snow or peering through a broken window there are always enemies to be killed 
 and they are always thinking of ways to kill you.
  
  There are some great set pieces in this game. Climbing a cliff in France being the most memorable 
 but driving tanks through Africa or the demolition of a Nazi strong hold in USSR. While this game 
 doesn't deliver the set pieces like D-Day it makes up for it by having consistantly great fighting 
 and scenery all through the game. The UK Africa fighting is good but the most forgetable (thankfully 
 they do get a trip to Europe) . The Soviet fighting is some of the best but because it is the first 
 few levels of the game that you play as them the weapons aren't that good. The USA fighting is 
 probably the best, storming (and holding) Hill 400 and Sniping Mortars from the top of a grain 
 Silo being some of the best bits.
  Well actually the best bits of this game are the "bog-standard" fighting that is in all FPS, nothing 
 can beat the feeling of smoking out a barn then letting the bullets fly in the confusion.
  
  Of course this game isn't perfect. The AI (which is great on the most part) can act a bit weird 
 at times. Like in Russia when your TEN comrades let you clear out a building on your own. Or if 
 you are lining up your aim with a distant enemie your comrades sometin=me walk into view just as 
 you shoot. BANG. Dead mate and the enemie is still alive.
  Also you can get lost sometimes as your teammates stay still till you make an advance, giving you 
 no clue of where to go next.
  The biggest problem has to be the scenery. While on the whole it is GREAT and very nice to look 
 at, it just feels a bit static. You can destroy plates and wine bottles, thats about it. The worst 
 thing is that fact that things like tables can stop rockets. HOPEFULLY by the next game things 
 like WOOD and MESH FENCES will not be a ble to stop bullets as when you see guys hiding behind 
 tables which manage to stop bullets it is laughable.
  Another problem is the frame rate, on the whole it is consistant but the smoke effects will KILL 
 mid end machines. Have 1gb of RAM before you play because otherwise the Smoke Grenade will become 
 your worst enemy (even though it is a VERY useful weapon in reality)
  
  Gameplay
  Consistanly briliant throughout
  Graphics
  Very detailed but wont push the system too far so 
 even mid/high PC's can handle it. Unfortunatley the use of a smoke grenade will kill mid end machines.
 
  Sound
  Great effect and the banta between your comrades is useful as well as entertaining
  Value
  The campaign is pretty short but this game BEGS to be played through on a higher difficulty.
 
  
  On the whole a GREAT game worth a purchse by everybody who has a PC that can play it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Maegnas
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jan 14, 2006 8:32 am PT
Review:  Call of Duty 2, being one of the best World War II games, one of the millions it seems... lol, has 
 progressed very well since the prequel. The graphics are up to par, and that makes the world so 
 much more intense. You can actually hide well enough that you cannot be seen, the bushes and colors 
 can blend you into the environment in ways i have never seen before. It has a very good story that 
 keeps your interest, and the multiplayer is just utterly amazing. I could and have spent hours 
 upon hours playing the multiplayer, and i have never gotten sick of it. Great FPS, would recommend 
 to anyone looking for a great shooting game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Docto878
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jan 13, 2006 9:54 pm PT
Review:  I do not know how they do it but Call of Duty 2 is the best WW 2 game made. The game is smooth 
 as silk on my PC and the graphics are great. I have a P4 with 1 gig of ram and an ATI Radeon 9600SE 
 and I run the game on high settings with good frame rate. The game allows me to feel as if I am 
 a part of the war. The AI is great on both the enemy and my side. The music is terrific and the 
 voice acting is excellent. The game is challenging yet not punishing. In other words if you play 
 smart you are rewarded but if you play dumb you are penalized. One complaint I have is that you 
 cannot save on the fly. You have to wait for auto saves. I hate to get killed just as I am reaching 
 the end of a battle and them have to start over. Also the environments are not all destructible 
 like FEAR. That being said, this game is leaps and bounds better than the other WW 2 games. If 
 you are going to buy one WW 2 game then get this one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SKLDMARK
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 13, 2006 8:53 am PT
Review:  Call of Duty 2 is another one of my top favorite first person shooter game. It reminds me of Wolfenstein 
 but this one covers everything from being in the Russian, British, and American infantry. Learning 
 curve for this game was a breeze kept about the same control set up as BattleField 2. The detail 
 in itself is quite extraordinary on PC and on the Xbox 360. Very realistic in gameplay it does 
 lack certain things such as a health bar. I don't mind this much but it does lose the reality of 
 actual combat without a Medic to help patch you up in battle. But still it is definately a game 
 to have for your gaming pleasure. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: davidwwone
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jan 13, 2006 5:15 am PT
Review:  every year I always seem to want a ww2 shooter mainly because you know what your going to get with 
 them a fast paced game with lots of action. if you want this then call of duty 2 is an amazing 
 game its really fast paced and lots of fun. And if you like violence this is game for you its brutal 
 in some places but this all adds to the game. the missions are all really good and are varied enough 
 not to get you bored the one problem with this game is the mission objectives are extremely linear 
 and are quite easy until the last couple of missions that is. All in all a fantastic game will 
 lots of action, violence, good missions, superb graphics (even with a 64mb graphics card) if you 
 want a first person shooter buy this one you can't go wrong. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: carlos_febras
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 13, 2006 2:23 am PT
Review:  its the best wwii game ever, and in what concerns of FPS its one the best games ever also. It have 
 a fantastic auto-save system, so good that i didnt miss quick-save and quick-load, when you die 
 the you resume the game a few moments before you die because auto-save system is saving automaticly 
 almost every 30 seconds. you also have excelent graphics (whit a very goog graphic card) and a 
 easy/usefull character movement (lean, aim, crouch, etc) , i played it in 1024*768 whit a Geforce 
 FX Go5700 128MB, 3,4Ghz processor and 1GB ram and it runs just great, if you increase resoluction 
 than it runs slow
  i finish it in 11/13 hours in normal difficulty.
  i just love it and make me cry for more. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: activematx
Rating: 6
Date: Jan 12, 2006 6:29 pm PT
Review:  Basically if you are new to the series then pick this game up. You will like it. If you are a HUGE 
 fan of WW2 games then pick this up.
  
  I played and liked the first call of duty, but was disaapointed in the 2nd one. It feels like the 
 same game except with nicer graphics. I am not a fan of WW2 games, so maybe I am a bit biased. 
 This game is great polished, and has everything one could ask for......
  
  except new elements. The game feels very repetitive, and the story isn't too good. I would reccomend 
 this game to people who have never played call of duty before, or are a big fan of WW2 games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: waikit25
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jan 12, 2006 12:24 am PT
Review:  I got to try this a few days ago. It instantly got me hooked on. I only got time to play the Russian 
 campaign, starting the rest soon. The graphics are phenomenal, easily one of the best looking games. 
 I can say that it can match FEAR or Quake 4. The story is not the game's strongest point. It just 
 puts the player in a series of interesting situations and each only has a short and basic intro. 
 The gameplay are almost the same except for a few things (eg. they forgo the health kit finding, 
 lets me concentrate more on the fighting) . In short, i highly recommend this game to all FPS fans 
 out there and even if you are not a fan, this game is certainly worth the try and money. :) hahahahahaha 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nascarfan123
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jan 11, 2006 6:32 pm PT
Review:  Call of Duty 2 is even better than its predecessor. If you haven't played the first game or are 
 coming back for the 2nd game this picks of where Call of Duty left off and advances where the first 
 one left behind.
  
  One of the best things in Call of Duty 2 is the sound in the game. When you are fighting in a battle, 
 it actually sounds like that you are fighting in WWII. There is also very great music in the game 
 but sometimes you won't be able to hear it over all of the gunfighting. The game sounds very real 
 almost too real.
  
  Call of Duty 2 also looks very great. The environments in the game are detailed very well and there 
 are some very cool visual effects in the game. Sometimes when an explosion happens right next to 
 you you can't hear anything and you are only able to just look around at the fighting while you 
 are very dazed. Eventually you regain control and go back to fighting. The explosions real, and 
 the way they are supposed to be. Meaning that if there is only a small blast happening you will 
 only see a little debris fly, and if you see a big explosion a lot of debris will fly. What I am 
 trying to say is that the explosions are consistent to their magnitude, which is something some 
 games aren't. It's also really cool to see the tracers fly around next to you the game overall 
 looks fantastic.
  
  The gameplay in COD2 is very fast paced. There is very little rest in between missions, and you 
 rarely fight alone. The campaign takes about 10 to 15 hours and you only spend about 15 minutes 
 tops fighting alone. So you are always fighting in bigger battles, which is nice because you don't 
 have to do all of the work. However, you still have to do most of the work because the AI is not 
 always dependable. During the champaign it always felt like the enemy AI was always smarter than 
 your friendly AI that worked with you. Something that bothered me was that sometimes your fellow 
 rangers would either get in the way of your firing, run torwards danger instead of away from it 
 (like a grenade) , and what bothered me the most was sometimes I would advance in position and the 
 rest would not do anything for a few minutes. I don't know if it was intentional or not if you 
 were supposed to do some parts alone but it was annoying when they wouldn't back me up when I was 
 going to do something. The enemies seemed to be too accurate when it comes to throwing grenades. 
 9 out of 10 times if they threw a grenade and I didn't move then it would land perfectly were I 
 am standing. It is nice to have AI that knows how to throw grenades, but they don't need to be 
 too accurate like that. Also it always felt like in any battle that the sides weren't even. I'm 
 not talking a little uneven, but some battles it felt like it was 4 v 15. There are a couple of 
 battles where its supposed to be like that but I felt it was too uneven for too long. What was 
 a nice idea was to do the no health bar thing like in Halo 2. Its nice to not have to worry about 
 finding health it keeps you focused on the fighting more. I think that more games will pick up 
 on that type of health.
  
  Multiplayer in COD2 is not revolutionary, but it is still a whole lot of fun to play. The champaign 
 is what got you to come to the game, but the multiplayer makes the replay value really high for 
 COD2. Most of the gametypes are team based and you can choose what type of class you want which 
 all feature different weapons you can use. Also what was brought over from the first game was the 
 death cam, which is really nice to see how you died.
  
  Call of Duty 2 a superb game that is even better than the original. It is worth playing for anybody 
 no matter who you are. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CrazyGamr_basic
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jan 11, 2006 9:20 am PT
Review:  Lets face it, the WW2 game genre is no longer an original enterprise. Therefore, a game based on 
 this event must raise the bar in order to prove itself as much more than just another WW2 game. 
 I believe Call of Duty 2 does this. Infact, in my opinion, Call of Duty 2 is the best WW2 game 
 ever made.
  
  The graphics in this game are incredible. Even with an average setup (I am using a 9800pro) this 
 game looks amazing. I can only but wonder how this game must look like on a more advance gaming 
 rig.
  
  The story does a tremendous job of immersing the player in the game. One does not feel as though 
 they are playing the game, rather, it feels like you are taking part in the game. The story, and 
 constant scripted events, leave the player on the edge of their seat on countless occasions.
  
  Another great part of the game is the sound. Whether it is the sound of your allies barking 
 out orders, or the sound of bullets flying inches away from your head, everything sounds as authentic 
 as possible, and aids in the overall game immersion.
  
  I did have a few gripes with the game. For one, the AI seems to be rather dumb. The just rush at 
 you like a bunch of mindless zombies waiting to be shot. Secondly, some of the events tend to get 
 repetitive. Thus far, I have had to defend a certain position from countless enemy attacks approximately 
 4 times now. While this is fun, it left me with the feeling that I have done this before (countless 
 times!!) . Also, I found the game to be a little to easy, even on the harder modes.
  
  Even though the multiplayer does not do much to innovate, it is still very fun and entertaining.
 
  
  Other than these few gripes (which are common in may games) , i definitely recommend this game to 
 all 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cav27
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jan 11, 2006 4:37 am PT
Review:  I have just finished one of the greatest FPS games in recent years, not for a very very long time 
 have I been so totally absorbed into a shooter. 
  
  The gameplay is so fast and frenitic and filled with so many moments of raw tension. The AI (friend 
 and foe alike) was a lot smarter than I have come to expect from these games regularly using suppressive 
 fire and flanking movements, not to mention extremely effective use of grenades.
  
  The level design was superb, from the bombed streets and squares of Stalingrad to the vast desert 
 of North Africa to the war torn landscape of Northern France and Germany. I was particularly pleased 
 with the fact that the obligitary D-Day level was not the usual Omaha beach rush but the scaling 
 of the cliff at Point du Hoc. 
  
  The graphics and sound really compliment what is already an amazing experience. You are really 
 made to feel that you only a very small part in a much bigger conflict, be it fighters dogfighting 
 overhead or a Tiger decimating a tank column while you desperatly try to clear buildings of resistance 
 to the fact that your squadmates and the germans are constantly communicating in the heat of a 
 firefight.
  
  The only issue I have is the inaccuracy of the weapons. While I am sure this is to make the game 
 more authentic, it is frustrating when you unload a clip on a soldier and he gets up and owns you 
 while you are reloading. It doesent havent often but is very frustrating when it does.
  
  Overall in my opinion you can keep your Half-lifes, your Dooms and your Quakes, this was the FPS 
 of the year!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: koolgraphic
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jun 19, 2006 12:55 pm PT
Review:  There are a lot of world war 2 shooters around and for me it is not difficult to recognize real 
 from fake. This game is real in the sense that it makes you want to play it often. 
  
  The game is good, graphics is top notch and the AI are better shooters than i am. I did not get 
 the first COD. My war games include Medal of honor: allied assault and brothers in arms: RTH30 and 
 im glad to add COD2 among my favorite war games. 
  
  I recommend this game for PC fans. Skip evrything else and get this game. If you want to enjoy 
 this game start with the normal difficult and complete the campaign while playing multiplayer and 
 then repeat the campaign with the hardest difficulty and see how things gos. 
  
  Its fun and sometimes funny when those germans rush at you. I regret not buying a standalone game 
 becos my game came with the new Geforce 7800GT that i bought. But its worth it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 700652948163
Rating: 8.1
Date: Jan 9, 2006 5:38 pm PT
Review:  The second part of Call of Duty, Call of Duty 2 is powered by a proprietary new engine featuring 
 striking new visuals, advanced A. I. technology, the most realistic squad combat and explosive action 
 in new historic campaigns. 
  Call of Duty 2 lets you experience four individual soldier stories as they overcome insurmountable 
 odds in multiple campaigns. Players have the freedom to follow each of the four storylines through 
 for the ultimate character-driven experience, or they can engage in the historic battles chronologically 
 for quick hitting action. 
  Call of Duty 2's new engine and A. I. technology set the stage for authentic squad combat and astonishing 
 action. Concealment can be key as battlefield smoke or even deployed smoke grenades cloud visibility. 
 Weather effects such as the dusty sandstorms of North Africa and whiteout blizzard conditions of 
 Russia. Playing the game you do get the sense of being in the action and taking part in some thing 
 BIG. In all good stuff go out and buy this.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: DioXin_5
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jan 9, 2006 11:33 am PT
Review:  World War II apparently hasn't yet satiated the creative urges of many game developers. The past 
 year witnessed a barrage of WWII based titles flood the market; most of which were downright boring. 
 When I heard Infinity Ward was planning a sequel to Call of Duty (COD) , I was a tad skeptical at 
 first. Would this turn out like Medal of Honor: Pacific Assault (which in my humble opinion was 
 a big fat shiny turd) ? However, after playing COD2, all my worries have been put to rest and I 
 can happily say Infinity Ward has done a brilliant job with COD2 making it every bit as enjoyable 
 as the first. Gear up people... Duty calls! 
  The premise of COD2 is more or less the same as its predecessor; face an onslaught of Nazi soldiers 
 till re-enforcements arrive (which by the way makes for some most excellent and intense moments) , 
 clear buildings out (only to destroy them later) or steal certain valuable documents. The structure 
 of the single player campaign is the same as COD; come to terms with the brutalities of war through 
 three different campaigns; American, British and Russian. This time though you can choose the order 
 in which you wish to progress. For example, you can unlock the British campaign after merely completing 
 a few Russian missions; you don't have to play through the whole campaign. Even though the game's 
 as linear as it gets (move from point A to B) , it offers multiple paths towards an objective. So 
 if a mission's taking place in a city, you'll be able to maneuver through tons of streets and by 
 lanes to reach your destination. 
  COD was well known for its "Whoa cool!" moments by presenting cinematics and scripted sequences 
 at the right time. COD2 is no slouch in that department; on the contrary it's got a few more tricks 
 up its sleeve. Picture this; you're climbing a mountain behind two of your team mates. One of them 
 has managed to reach the top when suddenly a grenade explodes at his feet, throwing him down the 
 mountain. He clashes with the soldier in front of you (missing you by mere inches) taking him to 
 his untimely doom. To provide respite from on-foot missions you'll be able to man tanks, turrets 
 and ride shotgun in vehicles blasting any Nazis unfortunate enough to mess with you. Tanks are 
 a bit clunky to control at first but you'll get the hang of it after it gets blown to smithereens 
 a few times by German Panzers (heavily armored tanks) . 
  
  In a surprising move, developer Infinity Ward has completely axed the health bar from the game. 
 That's right; your character will no longer rely on health packs or even armor for that matter. 
 When you start taking hits, the screen shake violently and your vision starts blurring. Don't move 
 from the line of fire and the screen then starts to take on shades of red (probably indicating 
 the fact that you're bleeding like a stuck pig) and your characters starts breathing heavily. However, 
 even at that near death level if you manage to avoid damage for a few seconds your character regains 
 his health completely (think Master Chief's regenerating body armor) . This mechanic does seem stupid 
 at first but you'll get used to it along the way and at times even appreciate it. Unfortunately, 
 it makes the game pretty easy at times removing that sense of urgency from the game. 
  
  Armed and Dangerous 
  For those who haven't played COD, you need to understand something now; 
 playing like Rambo will get you killed fast. This doesn't mean the game is team based like Brothers 
 in Arms, it means you'll have to progress using your wits, and skill. Taking cover, going prone 
 at the right time, and running from (painfully) accurate grenades will ensure your survival on 
 the battlefield. The game only allows you to carry two guns at a time, so make every shot count. 
 You can always pick up an enemy's gun but they aren't as accurate as the ones you'll be carrying. 
 The new crosshair doesn't allow you to shoot while in motion so you'll have to stand still or aim 
 down the site to get a precise shot. 
  AI in the game has been revamped as well. Friendly AI no longer gets in your way; on the contrary 
 they'll even look out for you providing that much needed backup during crucial moments. Just like 
 your enemies they'll look for cover, avoid grenades and even lob them back at times. Path finding 
 is excellent as they'll jump over fences, crawl through fox holes and pretty much do the same things 
 you are supposed to. 
  
  World War II may have been brutal but looks extremely pretty, courtesy of Infinity Ward's new proprietary 
 engine. Character models looks extremely realistic, locales and environments are beautifully detailed 
 with all the latest bells and whistles like dynamic lighting, shadows, particle and weather effects 
 and motion blur used well to depict injury. On an AMD 3200+ with a Gainward 6600 card and a Gig 
 of RAM I was able to play the game extremely smoothly except for that rare glitch. 
  
  There is some encouraging news for those stuck with a relatively older PC. The game runs fine even 
 on something as modest as a 1.5 GHz CPU, 512 MB RAM and a GeForce 2 MX card. Yes, you will need 
 to tone down the visuals and certain effects like explosions and smoke will not look as picturesque 
 as in case of the recent generation cards; but the game is very much playable. Another pat of the 
 back for Infinity Ward for optimizing the engine so well. 
  
  COD 2's sound is as brilliant and perfectly complements the pandemonium on screen. The score which 
 is extremely orchestral will make you feel patriotic at times and explosions and gun fire (which 
 you'll hear through out the game) sound as authentic as the real deal. Voice actors have done a 
 decent job and accents sound pretty genuine. The only problem in the voice department is that dialogues 
 and particular words are repeated a lot and towards the end you'll literally tear your hair apart 
 if you hear "Fascist pigs" or "Jerries" again. 
  
  In recent times, when sequels are churned merely to cash franchises, COD2 feels like a well done 
 job. With its epic fights and extremely chaotic (I swear that's the last time I'll use that word) 
 gameplay, COD2 will be enjoyed by Call of Duty veterans and freshers alike. 
  
  
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gerg1988
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jan 9, 2006 2:16 am PT
Review:  Infinity Ward's World War 2 based games Call of Duty; provide some of the most intense and best 
 first person shooter experiences on the market. The release of Call of Duty 2 caused a bland genre 
 back to when it was in its prime four years ago, with Allied Assault. 
  
  Call of Duty 2, is definitely the best WW2 shooter on the market with different campaigns, though 
 limited to three nations, still a refreshing step from the American dominated genre. The single 
 player further boasts the revolutionary "Battle Chatter" and "portable concealment (aka Smoke) ".
 
  The use of Battle Chatter and smoke has created a more intense game through the emotion in which 
 the player is actually there, with the fellow soldiers pointing out the numerous enemies encountered. 
 
  
  The graphics of the game are awesome with, beautiful backgrounds in Egypt, Russia and Europe, each 
 a fantastically designed for both game play and artistically. The soldiers are also perfectly sculpted 
 with the addition of minor details such as entrenching tools, coats and other minute details creating 
 a more atmosphere.
  
  The sound of the game, is most probably the best I have ever heard, the sound of each of the guns, 
 artillery, mortars, tanks, half tracks and fellow soldiers are so well integrated that it creates 
 a seamless sense of the battle and the feelings that you are not a one man army when a MG42 is 
 heard in the distance. The integration of battle chatter further creates perfect sound with, soldiers 
 shouting over the top of the other sounds, to warn the protagonist of grenades, and enemies.
  
  The multiplayer is also great but takes getting used to with a steeper learning curve than 
 the single player, with death match, CTF and team variants being fun also. The addition of battle 
 chatter is also a hilarious addition when fellow players use the system to abuse their enemies.
 
  
  Thus Call of Duty 2, in my view is an underappreciated game of 2005, in which other games have 
 out shun this "overused" genre, in which many will leave this game, due to the receptiveness of 
 the genre over the past four years.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: cikame
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 9, 2006 12:39 am PT
Review:  This'll be short since this is the greatest game i think i've ever played since Perfect Dark on 
 the N64 and i'll get carried away.
  
  Ok, the first thing that hit me about this game is how well it runs, i'm used to fps problems in 
 shooters when things get hectic, but its more of a game problem it seems... earned in blood lags 
 out in normal fire fights (on low graphics) , never lag in f. e. a. r (on medium graphics) , now call 
 of duty 2 on the highest graphics settings and resolution runs smooth as syrup... i think its because 
 there are no rag dolls or physical objects, objects such as a helmet on a table will stay on the 
 table... and the table will be nailed to the ground, i think this is an excellent decision because 
 to be honest rag dolls were getting repetitive, its nice to watch the enemy try and crawl away 
 and surprise you later when he pulls out a pistol, clear rooms will never be clear if bodies are 
 on the floor... one will shoot you in the back. The enemy A. I provides a decent challenge even on 
 easy mode, you're not going to die if you run out on easy but prepare to take a few bullets then 
 hide and rest abit, health is indicated by subtle hints (breathing, dizziness then a big red flashing 
 screen, big bangs such as tank shells hitting walls you're hiding behind knock you over giving 
 the appropriate shell shock effect that wasn't used enough in brothers in arms road to hill 30) .
 
  
  Brothers in arms did the whole squad thing but playing this then going back to it makes it feel 
 abit robotic... *gunfire* "ALLEN... ALLEN....... ALLEN!" call of duty 2 gives the soldiers around 
 you personality (and very detailed faces) by having them shouting orders at each other, enemy positions 
 and situations they are in, its very thrilling to be around fellow british and having them shout 
 "DIE YOU JERRY ROTTAH!" hehe... with their socks pulled up, love it.
  
  The single player is an amazing experience by itself, after completing it 3 times i tried the multiplayer 
 and i now no longer play cs, i haven't had a moment yet where 'i missed because the reg is s***' 
 quick enough loading times, plenty of weapons plus the weapons the other team drop and a wide selection 
 of game modes but team deathmatch is all that matters ;P, there's also a hell of alot of servers 
 online so others must love it aswell.
  
  Yeah i'm stopping before i really get carried away, in order to compensate for missing the first 
 game i downloaded the demo, maybe i'll trade in earned in blood for it... BUY THIS GAME - seriously, 
 you'll be missing out otherwise, even lower spec pc's, just click directx 7 and boom no lag for 
 you mr/miss 1.7 ghtz. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ProGamer7382
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jan 8, 2006 8:58 pm PT
Review:  Wow what an experiance. When I went into my local game store to buy this game I wasnt sure I made 
 the rite decision. On top of that my video card couldnt handle it so I had to go out to Best Buy 
 and buy a new one. But now with that all said and done I really think I made the rite choice by 
 buying this game. After I installed my video card I played this game for about 5 hours. In "COD2" 
 there r 3 campagins russian, british, and american. I would rate the russian and brit. campaigns 
 about an 8.5 and the american campaign 10. I love the use of smoke grenades which really add a 
 stealth feature. All the guns you can pick from is great. Some of the levels do look the same though 
 and COD2 can be a system hog. I couldnt imagine why anyone would say this game isnt worth buying. 
 And after you complete the single player mode you will find yourself spending hours on the addictive 
 multiplayer mode. Great game close this window and run out to ur local game store and buy this 
 game as quick as you can. I hope I have made an impact on your gaming experiance. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tonytoenails
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 8, 2006 7:26 am PT
Review:  Wow what an experience - youve got the fantastic sequences the true cinematic pieces that make 
 you so glad you bought this game - then it kicks in - this is just a little too repetitive towards 
 the later stages of the game. The graphics and sound are nothing short of brilliant and its good 
 to see some of the games cropping up utilising the use of dual core processors. The AI is some 
 of the best seen in any game, but some of your fellow team members can sometimes stand on top of 
 grenades which is a bit of a stupid thing to do. Great move to include a 'Halo' esque health system 
 where by you replenish health by taking a breather from the action - but when you do die you start 
 not far from where you left off so theres virtually no trudging around to get back to where you 
 died. However sometimes you restart back in the same place where you get killed unable to do anything 
 to prevent the inevitable. This is one of the best games for the first three quarters of the game 
 but then it gets let down by the repetitve "move through buildings then shoot Germans" action - 
 also the guns dont have a different enough feel to them to make it worth picking up different weapons. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: w0rmy
Rating: 7.8
Date: Jan 7, 2006 10:51 pm PT
Review:  The first Call of Duty was one of my favorite games of all time. I loved the simplicity and action 
 of the game. For the most part that's all here in Call of Duty 2 but at times I felt the game was 
 a bit too frantic. 
  
  Your teammates spend a lot of time yelling various things. Some times it's pretty annoying since 
 it's hard to be sure who you should be listening to. They also frequently refer to you by name. 
 The only problem with that is that I couldn't always remember what my name was.
  
  The game play can be a little redundant. There seems to be far more "house to house" fighting than 
 I would have liked. There are a few missions that break from this but not many.
  
  Other than that I found the game to be pretty fun for the most part. The American missions were 
 much more interesting than the others as you got a few more chances to do something besides shoot 
 at German's hiding behind boxes.
  
  I admit, I was a little disappointed with the game at first but I've actually enjoyed going back 
 through the game a second time. Knowing what you need to be doing makes the game play a lot more 
 fun.
  
  For the most part, if you liked the first one there's probably some things you'll like about this 
 one but don't expect the varied game play that made the original an instant classic. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kurtus
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jan 7, 2006 7:54 pm PT
Review:  Possibly the only reveiw in PC Power Play that i have dissagreed with is the one when they where 
 saying COD is better then COD2. mmm i strongly disagree with this statement as COD2 has given us 
 a fresh new war shooter that the only thing in common it has with the first, is that it is set 
 in world war2 and it shares the same name. Both have completely diffrent storylines pros and cons. 
 
  
  Concerning Multiplayer:
  The thing that is most improved about the game is the health meter. If you dont know already the 
 producers of COD2 have created revivng health feature that allows you to take a couple of shots 
 - hit the deck and then slowly revive. This is most usful to better gamers as it allows greater 
 killing sprees because the health regenerates. For n00bs however i can see that this would cause 
 much disruption in game play as they are more of the "spaming + all guns blazing" type where they 
 would run into the open atacking while a more experienced player would be undercover so they can 
 get wounded regenerate and utimatly kill the n00b. Thus this game could be seen as being a FPS 
 that higher class gamers would only fully enjoy. 
  
  And single player:
  With the diffrent difficulty settings that the game offers for single player, gamers of all skill 
 levels can easily enjoy and ge the most out of the game.
  Every level of the singleplayer is exciting with battalions of men fighting each other- yes your 
 squad actually has good AI they help all the way through the game. On some of the easiest difficulties 
 if you let them, they will do all the killing for you while you sit back and take in the amazing 
 atmosphere. 
  
  All in all this isnt as much as a sequal as it is a complete new war shooter. It is very exciting 
 and the battle scenes are breath taking. This is a must have for war shooter fanatics. It also 
 offers great online gameplay that you can get your teeth stuck into after you finish the singleplayer. 
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: hotplayer220
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jan 7, 2006 1:54 pm PT
Review:  Picking up from where the last set left off, this game is so great" In single player mode you get 
 to play as each Allied country. This allows you to revisit the battlfields on each front. In general 
 gaming physics have increased in leaps and bounds. The missions you opartake in are very original 
 and don't become repetitive at all. Like always you can select game difficulty to your skill level. 
 One recent addition is the removal of the health bar, which has be replaced by regenative health. 
 This does not subtract from the game but brings new tactics to the gamer.
  
  In multiplayer, most everything has seen an inprovement. Battle Rank has been removed but is not 
 missed. One possible negative has been the addition of the Trench Gun "shotgun". This allows for 
 less skillful players to score easily and disturbs a bit of flow, but for the experienced gamer 
 it can be easily adverted. A problem being solved is the absence of PunkBuster. Servers have reported 
 kicking and banning over 200 different players for the use of hacks. PunkBuster aswell as many 
 more new features are scheduled for the next patch.
  
  It can only get better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: djnet
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jan 10, 2006 2:41 pm PT
Review:  As in the first game, Call of Duty 2's campaign will put you in the shoes of a few different soldiers 
 fighting for different Allied factions. You start off as a private in the Russian army, visciously 
 fighting off the invading Germans in Moscow and Stalingrad. The British campaign is unlocked after 
 beating the first Russian mission. For most of these missions you'll be fighting in the sand-swept 
 deserts of North Africa alongside the Desert Rats against Field Marshal Rommel's troops. The final 
 mission in the British campaign sends you to the bombed-out houses and hedgerows of Caen, France. 
 After you're done with that, you'll play as an American corporal in Europe. Yes, you will be doing 
 a D-Day landing, but not on Omaha Beach or Utah Beach, which you've probably played several times 
 before. Instead, you'll be scaling the sheer cliffs of Pointe du Hoc as artillery with the Army 
 Rangers. If you already thought rock climbing was an "extreme" sport, try doing it with artillery 
 and machine-gun fire raining down on you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: viper_najem
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jan 15, 2006 5:23 am PT
Review:  Sequels are really hard to judge. But when it comes to Call of Duty 2, it's a different story.
 
  
  I can start by saying the gameplay hasn't changed much... And what to change? It's a WWII FPS. 
 In war, nothing is original. And this game sticks faithfully to the formula created by the first 
 Call of Duty, and that's exactly what makes this game an excellent sequel. There is some new stuff 
 like holding your breath to aim in sniper mode, or the fact that you can't die unless you're overwhelmed 
 with shots which isn't 100% realistic but is still a major improvement over the whole "medkit" 
 thing. Multiplayer is hysterical and will provide you with weeks and months of fun...
  
  The graphics are improved especially the weather effects. The blizzards in Stalingrad will wash 
 you away... The smoke grenade explodes shrouding the entire battle field with the most realistic 
 smoke cloud to date. The whole setting, along with weapon and soldier models, looks excellent as 
 well. Performance may lag at times, but no one said throwing hundreds of elements in one single 
 area is an easy thing.
  
  The sound is more than perfect. It's the very definition of unique, realistic and out of this world. 
 You will indeed feel you're only one soldier in this hellish setting where one stray bullet can 
 blind your vision, injuring you and badly distorting your life. Music is mostly epic and changes 
 with the action.
  
  This game continues the winning saga. Go and get it now. It's as good as FPS gets... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: evilernie67
Rating: 9.1
Date: Mar 27, 2006 10:16 pm PT
Review:  What can you say about Call of Duty 2 that hasnt been said about Call of Duty.
  Its an intense WWII action shooter, you play 3 different campaigns Americian, British, Russian, 
 you have one hell of a good time doing it.
  The biggest difference between COD and COD2 is the graphics. COD2s graphics are amazing, If anything 
 it gives the tense battles an even more visceral feel than in the first installment. The AI has 
 also been given an upgrade. The enemy will try to out flank you, will seek out cover and will even 
 toss your well placed grenade back at you if given the chance (something you are not allowed to 
 do I am afraid) . Your teammates AI still has a bit of work needed; they will duck for cover and 
 scream for you to watch out for that MG42 only to rush around the corner and get turned into hamburger.
 
  The very handy compass from the first game is back and has been rendered not only handy but invaluable. 
 Now spotted enemies will show up on you compass for a brief period, along with friendly tanks during 
 escort missions, as well as your teammates. You are still tied to basically a rail shooter, but 
 Infinity Ward has tried to give you the feeling of being in control. When you are presented with 
 multiple objectives you are allowed to complete them in any order you choose, although it is fairly 
 clear that completing objective A before moving on to B is a good idea, dont want any nasty Nazis 
 sneaking up behind you. The health bar has been done away with as have the shooter staple health 
 packs, now when injured the screen goes red and you have to find cover so you can rest for a bit 
 to heal up. It takes a bit getting used to, but it works very well in the game.
  Running this game on any thing but Gods own PC and you quickly have to turn down some of the niceties 
 that make this game so good looking. Thankfully the game can automatically adjust the game settings 
 for you based on what it finds in your system and this actually works pretty good, running this 
 on an AMD 4200+ X2 with 2 GIG of RAM and an XFX Ge-Force 7800 GT card with 2X AA and 8X AF (using 
 the games auto adjust option) and I saw no hiccups or slowdowns. Word of warning COD2 does not 
 like dual core processors, so if you have one you may run into problems getting the game to run 
 (the latest patch seems to have fixed this issue) .
  All in all COD2 is an action packed thrill ride from start to finish. A must for every shooter 
 fan, hardcore and casual alike you owe it to yourself to go pick this one up.
  
  DH
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Yunchao
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jan 6, 2006 7:45 pm PT
Review:  This game really incorporates what nobody knows about the small battle of WWII with the large infamous 
 battles that legends are made of. You start out as the Russians and wouldn't you know it, the Germans 
 are right at Moscow's doorstep. Defend the city with just some very basic training and your off 
 to the British campaign.
  
  The game then switches several times between the USA campaign and the British campaign so this 
 game has a much more of a chronological feel to it.
  
  This is an absolute must for anyone who loves first-person shooters however, be warned, you will 
 need a pretty good up to date graphics card to get all that you can out of this game. With my Gforce 
 4, there were no shadows in the game which should give you an idea about the range. In other words 
 the better the card, the better the game!
  
  Still a brilliant game with lots of replay! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: naylor182
Rating: 6.2
Date: Jan 6, 2006 4:11 pm PT
Review:  Having been an avid player of the original Call of Duty, I was very much obliged to buy the sequel.
 
  However, only minutes in, I sensed this was (in the words of Fall Out Boy) going down, down. 
 
  It's probably the most repetitive game I've ever played. In the Russian and British levels, the 
 Germans keep on spawning from nowhere - often behind you from areas you've already cleared. Infuriating. 
 The missions, especially in the Russian bits, are all the same. 'Kill endless waves of Germans' 
 'Maybe do *insert mission* as well... as a sidenote, comrade!' It's just so samey.
  The tank missions have been greatly improved, though. The El Alamein tank charge was inspired. 
 A marked improvement on the Russian tank mission in the original.
  
  But I protest at Infinity Ward living up to the first part of its name concerning the amount of 
 German troops coming from nowhere. It's just boring.
  
  Activision and IW need to play the original CoD for a LONG time, and learn HARD from it if they 
 wish to release CoD 3. Something I'll hesitate to buy, despite being a regular on CoD 1 online 
 servers. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: karpar
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jan 5, 2006 7:40 pm PT
Review:  World War II games are certainly not hard to come by, and they've delivered some of the best experiences 
 of the last few years. The reasons are fairly obvious - the conflict was an almost completely unambiguous 
 case of good vs. evil, free of the confusion and moral difficulty of later wars. It was fought 
 on a wide variety of fronts, from the deserts of North Africa to the snowy forests of the Belgian 
 Ardennes, from the craggy seawalls of Normandy to and through ruined cities across Europe, providing 
 built-in variety in scenery. And, frankly, there are very few gaming experiences more satisfying 
 than giving the Third Reich what-for. Still, after so many stirring victories against Hitler's 
 war machine, is there any need for one more? Infinity Ward knows the answer, and it is a resounding 
 yes. Just as they did with the original Call of Duty, they have set the high-water mark for any 
 followers.
  
  Call of Duty 2 follows the overall format of the original by including Soviet, British, and American 
 campaigns, but unlike the original, these campaigns are not presented in a strictly linear fashion. 
 By winning a handful of Soviet missions, you unlock the British campaign, which you can switch 
 to at any time. You can also choose to play the campaigns in order, which is how I opted to play.
 
  
  In the Soviet campaign, you battle the German war machine through the decimated cities of the Soviet 
 Union in brutal room-to-room fighting. The British missions include plenty of standard first-person 
 shooter combat, along with well-executed tank missions and rail shooter sequences. The American 
 offerings are all about a man and his gun, but with plenty of unusual twists on the expected format. 
 Through all of these, you will fight alongside hordes of AI friendlies and swap lead with truly 
 staggering numbers of enemies. Almost immediately upon completion of the very short training level, 
 you'll be confronted with relentless waves of Germans - so many that you'll feel genuinely overwhelmed 
 quite often - but in the best possible way.
  
  In another welcome departure from its predecessors, the game doesn't allow players to hang back 
 and handle things from a safe distance. To make progress, the player will have to press forward 
 into extremely dangerous situations in order to completely unseat the enemy. Trying to handle things 
 from long range will allow reinforcements to move in. This holds true even when the enemy has multiple 
 mounted machine guns trained on your only path forward. For these harrowing encounters, the game 
 arms you with smoke grenades. We've seen those in plenty of games, though not as effectively as 
 in CoD2. They are not clever options - they are entirely necessary. By tossing smoke, you rob the 
 often overwhelming enemy forces of their advantage, giving you a chance to get in close and even 
 the odds. At the same time, you are forced to barrel through the thick (and beautifully rendered) 
 clouds of smoke, every bit as blind as your enemies. The result is incredibly tense, with a fantastic 
 sense of danger and vulnerability. The game also manages to create plenty of situations where the 
 usual "super-soldier" mentality common in first-person shooters is completely destroyed - you'll 
 find yourself scrambling desperately for cover while your AI friends stand their ground. This creates 
 an excellent sense of cooperation, something that's usually sorely lacking in single-player games.
 
  
  The game also relies heavily on set-piece battles and scripted events, but without feeling as rigid 
 as other similar titles. Enemies react differently on different playthroughs, and scripted events 
 are well placed - getting killed and having to reload rarely means having to watch the same major 
 sequence over and over again. The big sequences are usually saved for the completion of a mission, 
 and some are breathtaking. When you survive wave after wave of attacking Germans and finally see 
 a group of P-51 Mustangs come in low over the horizon to strafe your tormentors, it can be hard 
 to stifle a triumphant shout.
  
  On the technical side, the game is very impressive. The graphics are on par with anything else 
 currently on the shelves, with highly detailed character models and great environments. The special 
 effects - snow, rain, debris from explosions - are all among the best I've seen in a game. The 
 sound effects are top-notch, with solid, convincing voice acting and judiciously placed and satisfying 
 music. The interface is virtually unchanged from the original, which shows that Infinity Ward is 
 more than familiar with "if it ain't broke, don't fix it."
  
  Things are not entirely perfect, though the negatives are fairly minor. The worst is the hardware 
 required to do the game justice. With a 128MB ATI Radeon 9800 Pro, things became entirely unplayable 
 from time to time. Upgrading to a 256MB GeForce 6600 eliminated this problem, but the recommended 
 settings seemed pretty low for a card that robust. Still, even at the seemingly low-end settings, 
 the game looked great and maintained a solid frame rate on the 256MB card.
  
  Another drawback lies in the presentation - each major segment of the campaigns begins with footage 
 provided by the Military Channel. Combined with the ability to play things in a fairly arbitrary 
 order, the presence of the Military Channel logo can take away from a sense of immersion. This 
 is compounded by the inclusion of Ronald Reagan's 1984 speech at Pointe du Hoc commemorating the 
 40th anniversary of D-Day. The speech, played over the footage leading up to the D-Day mission, 
 seems like a strange anachronism. Luckily, the immersion is quickly reestablished when the player 
 takes control, but these presentation choices seem a bit odd.
  
  There are a few minor quirks in the AI - occasionally you'll encounter an enemy that seems completely 
 oblivious to your presence, or another that storms up to your line only to turn around and present 
 his back to you. It's possible that these hiccups are instances of the AI deeming one of your comrades 
 a greater threat than you, which is perfectly valid, but it be jarring to get such a freebie in 
 the middle of a pitched battle.
  
  These complaints pale in the light of the game's overall quality. If you have any interest in WWII 
 games (or just first-person shooters) and a machine that can handle the load, Call of Duty 2 is 
 as close to a must-have as I've seen in a long time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sam_2006
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jul 24, 2006 8:19 pm PT
Review:  I played cod2 and i was definitely startled at such pure environment and fascinating game-play. 
 I actually have not finished it yet, but because of the pleasure of the game i often replay some 
 missions 5 to 6 times but never get board with it. It is really a flaw that the game's quite short 
 and that's what makes me repeat some missions because i don't want to finish it up !!!! very strange, 
 isn't it? but believe me call of duty 2 is worth playing thousands of times. What i loved also 
 about the game is the AI which is extremely well worked; going to hide against the wall or even 
 using the different shelters in the game to take cover and throw grenades is what your enemies 
 would often do. Finally, the sound is just great; you hear the yelling of soldiers left and right, 
 explosions of grenades, and gun-fire from all ways it's totally real and great. one piece of advice 
 guys : this game should never be missed !! it's plenty of fun !!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DeadRipper
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jan 5, 2006 6:28 am PT
Review:  This is probably the best call of duty game made but it is almost exactly the same gameplay... 
 The first call of duty was great because it was new and played completely different from any other 
 wwII game out.. There just tring to squeeze out as much money as they can get from it by just making 
 the graphics better. 
  
  Dont misunderstand me tho.. this game is great and i definitely have to recommend the game to anyone 
 that either hasnt or has played a call of duty game before.. Call of Duty is the kind of game to 
 submerse you into it with its AMAZING sound and the greatly improved graphics. This is definitely 
 a game that any one who likes fps will enjoy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: yachtboy
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jan 5, 2006 12:22 am PT
Review:  To start this review I would like to say that cod 2 does just what a seque should do: add to the 
 gameplay just alittle bit, improve the graphics, sound, and add alot of missions. So let's break 
 those things down and then talk about the total feel of the end product. As far as added gameplay 
 there are three things that come to mind. First is the new health system which lets you "heal" 
 by taking cover without the need to find health packs on the field. Now at first you may say "no 
 health bar that's just not real", last time I checked I didn't have a health bar over my head :) 
 . What this does is FORCE you to take cover when you are taking alot of fire. Now in real life 
 you would do it do you would have a better chance of living (you coward :) ) , but admit it you 
 don't value your charticer's life as much as your own real life so this add's a new depth that 
 just wasn't there before. The next gameplay tweak that comes to mind would have to be the smoke. 
 This lets you mod the battlefield in your favor like shooting out lights in splinter cell. It really 
 add's tactical points in a ww2 fps which is pretty hard to do. The last gameplay tweek is the grenade 
 indicter which simply show your where grenades are. Sure it is alittle out there but while on vet 
 setting your enemies will throw ALOT of gernades your way and I do mean alot so this just makes 
 since from a players points of view. Sure I would have liked to had the option to turn it off but 
 I am not going to hate the game just because of that. The sound in cod2 is pretty good I would 
 rather not go into detail about the sound as I don't have 5.1 speakers which I am sure would add 
 another level of realism. But let's just say that the sound in this game will make you feel like 
 you are there even with 2.1 speakers. Aw the missions, you start out in a russion uniform fighter 
 nazi's in Stalingrad and will end up driving tanks in Egypt and even climbing the cliffs on d-day. 
 You will fight tanks with sticky bombs, mow down hordes of germans with mg-42's, and clear city 
 after city, house after house, and even room after room of germans that are set on defending germany 
 at any cost. All in all the mission's if played on the vet settings will make you feel like you 
 are really fighting in ww2 and will take a good amount of time to complete. Over all this game 
 is what I would call the climax of ww2 fps. With the graphics reaching new heights, the sound putting 
 you in a room with explosions going off all around you, and as many as 30+ germans storming your 
 line and trying to push you back you can't help but feel like you are there. This is one great 
 game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: coolguy1111
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jan 4, 2006 4:25 pm PT
Review:  Its a great WW2 FPS with the best graphics in a game ive seen so far, if you got a good computer 
 with awsome graphics. The single player is fun, and the visuals are amazing, but its gameplay isnt 
 as good as thefirst. The fact you dont have health also makes the game seem unrealistic and easier, 
 if u get hurt can just hide for a few secounds, then your find. But other then that, its a great 
 game. I havnt played online, but i heard from other people that the online is fun, but because 
 reqs are so high, you will face lagg very often. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DPir1320
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jan 4, 2006 10:20 am PT
Review:  Having played both Call of Duty and the expansion pack Call of Duty: United Offensive, I had high 
 hopes for Call of Duty 2 and for the most part, I wasn't disappointed. The graphics make the biggest 
 jump fromt the original game. From the character animations to the cities, landscapes and weapons, 
 you can definitely see the improvements. AI has also been improved as both your squadmates and 
 enemies will react to gunfire, look for cover and attempt to out-flank each other to be in better 
 position to attack. The only things I saw as being wrong was the length of gameplay and the lack 
 of vehicles. Even with 27 single player missions, the game ends entirely too soon. I felt like 
 I was really just getting into the game when I discovered that I was done. Multi-player does help 
 to ease this though, and going online to battle against other people is a blast. But having a loading 
 screen come up before you can watch the credits is just wrong. Vehicles again seem as though they're 
 put in the game as afterthoughts. I know this is an infantry FPS, but COD: UO had as many and more 
 varied vehicle levels. Overall this is a great game. The single biggest problem is that there's 
 a been there, done that kind of feeling to it all. This is no fault of COD2 as much as the entire 
 WWII FPS industry. You can only storm the beaches of Normandy so many times. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MetalMartenhead
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jan 4, 2006 8:50 am PT
Review:  This game as the same engine as the first game. Better graphic, better effect, all this to put 
 you in the war like you never was. The AI have been improved. Don't try to charge, you will not 
 survive, even if your at the first dificulty. And yes there's the bug, at the first dificulty you 
 are invincible, well I will say in theory. If your ennemy chalenge you in close combat you better 
 watch out cause he can kill you. Any way it's not acceptable from this company to make such mistake.
 
  
  Each mission will test your reflex, and will ask you to anticipate the move of the enemy. At some 
 point you can't stay in your hole and kill the enemy at distance cause they will reach you. And 
 it seem's that there's a infinit source of tug on your side as well as in the enemy troop.
  
  You will explore different part of the europe in a multitude of wheater condition.
  
  The 
 bad aspect of this game is his life time. As the most of first person shooter, the story will take 
 you less than 10 hours to complete. So if you have the courage to restart at a higher difficulty 
 the game will survive another 10 hours.
  
  Call of duty 2 is one of the good game on the second world war but there's nothing new. Same weapon, 
 same story we know that, there's only one world war 2. Ejoy the graphic and visul effect. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tiefster
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jan 4, 2006 8:32 am PT
Review:  Call of Duty 2 is the intense sequel to Call of Duty and it is probably one of the best WWII shooters 
 of all time. Graphics are better on 360 than on the computer but you will like it either way. The 
 aren't realy any new controls for it and there seemed to be no new weapons but that may be the 
 good thing about it. Instead of starting off as American and finishing Russian like in the original 
 CoD, you start out as a Russian soldier and finish as an American one. If you like Stalingrad, 
 dont worry because its one of the cities you fight in during the Campaign. The British Campaign 
 takes you to Northern Africa where you switch between 2 characters and you get to drive a Crusader 
 tank and blow up panzers. The American Campaign was without a doubt the hardest Campaign particularily 
 when you first start out. The American Campaign will rock. The battles are insane to the max and 
 you use a lot of smoke grenades to hide yourself from German MG-42s.
  And what would a CoD game be without the British and the American soldiers trash talking the Nazis. 
 It is extremly entertaining and it definitely adds some more realism to the game. When your getting 
 shelled or bombed is quite remarkable too. If you turn up the volume you actually feel like you're 
 there and it sort of adds to the intensity and it makes you nervous, especially when you're a sniper 
 or you're just gunning down Nazi scumbags.
  The online system is basically the same but it adds hours of fun onto the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PFC_SilverMan
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jan 4, 2006 5:48 am PT
Review:  Call of Duty 2 is the best WWII shooter on the market, it has great gameplay, graphics and sound. 
 
  
  The gameplay: The singleplayer campaign is like is predecessor... very intense and fun.... the 
 AI is well scripted (smoke grenades really works) ,
  The multiplayer is great... the maps are excellent and If your opponent fires a shot, It pings 
 on the radar (very useful if you dont have good sound) .
  
  The graphics: Not the most innovating graphics but they are still pretty good, the models and weapons 
 are very well designed... and the scenario is very realistic.
  
  The sound: The sound environment is absolutely brilliant... the explosions, and shoots on background, 
 the voice acting of both allies and nazis soldiers, the sound of your gun.... it all fits like 
 a perfect symphony!
  The AI is present here too... you will ear things likeX get in to cover" and "Enemy troops.... 
 by the barrels... to your right" and you look and you see the X soldier is in fact out of cover 
 and a Nazi is hide behind the barrel... 10/10 if you have a 5.1 sound system.
  
  At the end of all this..... you just cant stop scoring Nazis...
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: crazycanadain
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 3, 2006 9:07 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay was very immerssive you have to take steps to take one place of importance or your dead. 
 very authentic weapons and missions. graphics are very good and very underdemanding a very good 
 thing for smooth gameplay. multiplayer is great very open combat. more choice of weapons on multiplayer 
 is a good addition. the greatest thing is that it doesnt take long for you to get used to the controls. 
 might take longer for beginers but i have a lot of these games so it was easy. another aboutt he 
 mutiplayer is the balance seems better then COD 1 there doesnt seem to be one person who is dominating 
 unless everyone sucks. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: _knife_
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jan 3, 2006 5:42 pm PT
Review:  I've played allot of FPS and just keep going back to Counter-strike because the game play and the 
 feel of the charector movement and gun machanics are just the best.. well maby not anymore
  
  Playing other fps like the quakes, UT's, DOD, (Cartoon charectors and stupid looking guns) 
 just dont feel right. 
  
  Call of Duty 2 though really hits the nail, i could own people all day in this. Which i have done 
 at quite a few lans allready. And unlike CS which the people i LAN with refuse to play because 
 i just pwn them to much, they come back to life reletively quick so they dont get so anoyed and 
 i get to kill them more WIN WIN. :)
  
  THE SOUND man the sound in some games are just lame and u cant tell where anyone is at all but 
 in call of duty 2 i can basically aim at someone moving arround behind a wall its awesome to sneak 
 right up behind people. People without sound watchout.
  
  Graphics are cool. wish it was cheaper though 
::::::

::::::
UserName: crazy_ferret123
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 3, 2006 1:50 pm PT
Review:  NOW this is what im talking about. agme developers, take a note, PLAY THIS GAME TO MAKE GOOD GAMES!! 
 its like, these guys are like camp counslers, and all the other publishers/developers are like 
 2 year olds. this game is so good, that it puts brothers in arms and medal of honor AND all those 
 other WW2 games to shame. literally kiks them in the nuts until there are no nuts anymore, and 
 there is jst a fleshy patch were there nuts used to be. the graphics for one thing, and amazing, 
 they are the best on the pc tied with fear. im not just saying that. they really are, and the smoke 
 is directly affected with the wind, and can make your vision of the enemy off for over a minute. 
 the sound is the best part, its simply fantastic, its gave me goosbumps when i beat a mission, 
 its great really, and the voice overs are the best i have seen in a game ever, i mean these guys 
 are the real **** there voices are like diretly recorded from warfare, its that good. and the gameplay 
 is the best part, its like a mix of BIA with MOH, blended in with a little of the greatest war 
 movies in history. its a true spectacle to behold the D day mission, its truely breathtakeing, 
 i almost through up seeing all these people die. and it is so cinimatic, its like prerecorded like 
 vents that get you pumped up for the fight ahead, adn the AI is just amazing, they try to flank 
 you, they trough smoke grenades at you, and once you shoot them and they are on the ground, they 
 gather up every thing they have, and come at you with two more shots of there pistol before you 
 come after them to put them out of there misery. i recommend this game to everyone, and im not just 
 saying that to sell the game, there is so much replay value, and theres multiplayer that is just 
 as tense as single player. all of this with A SMOOTH FRAMERATE!! Bravo infinity ward Bravo 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Qulzam
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 3, 2006 3:48 am PT
Review:  Take your gun, be ready to kill or be killed for you motherland. Call of duty 2 is a good sequel 
 that has a much fun!, This is far the interesting game in 2005 and have great graphics, cool sounds 
 which will stop the heartbeat of yours. This game is the game for the lovers of BF2, BIA, and other 
 war games. this is the good game but we cannot say that it is the best game in the sequel, but 
 still the most fun can be pointed out from this game. This the third installment of COD, infinity 
 ward has done again! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ShraZ_Zy
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jan 2, 2006 11:28 pm PT
Review:  Ever since Call of Duty came out I've been amazed on how much detailed this game is. I used to 
 be a fan of MOH when it came out but now that MOH have going downhill ever since the staffs went 
 to COD. Call of Duty expansion pack was my favorite how intense it was.
  
  COD II brings alot of awesomeness. The game graphics are top-of-the-line, sound/music are awesome, 
 voice acting is solid, AI well scripted, and it has great old WWII movies. You have alot of variety 
 campaign, you play in different parts of Europe and Africa. I mostly died from grenade. The smoke 
 grenade is really well done, and when you rush in it and see a german coming at you it is hilarious!
 
  
  The only con I can see is that It doesn't have rated-R language as the first one which I miss but 
 it is still fun. Abit too much grenade killing.
  
  If you owned COD I or not you will enjoy this epic game. Can't wait for the expansion! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fuzzyclam
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 2, 2006 10:03 pm PT
Review:  It was an amazing game. Great graphics and great levels. The new thing were there is no life packs 
 is awesome and its overall an awesome game. Anyone who says it isnt is a very silly person. amazing 
 game, no one can say different. I loved it and everyone else i know loved it and loved the graphics. It 
 was hard but not too hard. Just perfect. The best campaign is the american one. By far the best 
 and i liked the beginning training. The whole game is a great idea and its the best of the series. 
 I loved it. The best part is when you a climbing u and charging thte beah of pointe du hoc and 
 you see a boat on fire and the men on fire. Amazing game. Never a dull part and great sniping. 
 you can also pick what objective to do first
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: vietkongmonkey
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jan 2, 2006 8:59 pm PT
Review:  This is a great game. The best WWII game. If BiA is special forces, this is the regular mans game. 
 However. They pushed the graphics to far. Leading to horrible resolution. The made it to Halo like. 
 I mean I should be able to carry a Pistol and two rifles or at least one. However now I get two 
 rifles and the grenade button can be hit accidentaly, Making a terribly arcady experince. The only 
 good bit was the damage system. What would have been better is to get hit and wait for a medic, 
 making a crazy realistic game.
  They also didn't ad the moble bi-pod gun. I'm going back to united offensive. This was good, if 
 you never played a Call of Duty before. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: devildweller98
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jan 2, 2006 8:39 pm PT
Review:  Call of duty 2 amazing. The greatest WWII shooter is back. Bloody brilliant. Call of duty 2 blows 
 Medal of honor right out of the water. Infinity ward returns with more cinematic intensity and 
 chaos than ever before, in World War II's most climactic battles. Join your squad and choose your 
 Single Player missions, or go online for intense Multiplayer action. Intense as hell. Graphics 
 are amazing. And the gameplay is damn right brilliant. Amazing levels. D-Day the battle of Pointe 
 du hoc was amazing. A brilliant level. Highly addictive online play. A blood must have. Grenade 
 are your friends. You really need them in this. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PheaRMe-
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jan 2, 2006 4:54 pm PT
Review:  This game is awesome awesome grapics, sound. The game is worth the 50$ hell i would buy it if it 
 was even 100$ this game owns battlefield2 and F. E. A. R awesome Single Player and awesome Multiplayer. 
 The single player has decent length, but is very immersive and you get "sucked in". When you first 
 play, you will think "Holy ****!". The multiplayer is great too. Very awesome. Everything about 
 it is great. It does get boring after awhile, but within that time it is the most fun I have ever 
 had. Like I said, choose this over Battlefield 2 or FEAR when the time comes. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: judgementday666
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jan 2, 2006 3:01 pm PT
Review:  I have played three hours of this game and it was so much fun i had to run up stairs and tell everyone. 
 the game play is so great. there is over twenty guns i have seen so far and the enemys are super 
 smart, for AI. expect to really have to think to get through a level. the enemy is great at ducking 
 re- loading and throwing grenades. also, your allies are just as powerful as you. making it seem 
 less like a halo juggernot type game. you can die just as easily as everyone else. i must go back 
 and play some more. buy this game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bigshizzzle
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jan 2, 2006 1:20 pm PT
Review:  The only thing you notice bout this game is the lack of gameplay from the original call of duty 
 games. Either than that an action filled game with great sound and a great feel of the war.
  
  The only thing you notice bout this game is the lack of gameplay from the original call of 
 duty games. Either than that an action filled game with great sound and a great feel of the war.
 
  
  The only thing you notice bout this game is the lack of gameplay from the original call of duty 
 games. Either than that an action filled game with great sound and a great feel of the war. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hybridhuman
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jan 2, 2006 12:28 pm PT
Review:  Call of Duty 2, this game is awsome. Wondering which ww2 inspired shooter to pick up, well my friend, 
 this is the one. The graphics are great and the game supports older systems very effectivley. Sound 
 is superb with bullets streaking by and the shout of nazis and comrades alike spark up a firefight. 
 The gameplay shines with awsome enemy and squad AI and the halo-ish health regeneration mechanic 
 works well. The multiplayer is good but if you have the first game, not much changed and your not 
 missing out. Overall, Singleplayer rocks, albeit a tad short, its very intense, the most amazing 
 experience in the game is when you have finished a massive firefight of nonstop explosions and 
 gunshots, the silence and distance ambience you hear of planes and gunfire in the distance is something 
 to enjoy. I would literally stand and just close my eyes and listen to the silent war. Immersion 
 at its finest! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: iggy_23
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jan 2, 2006 7:16 am PT
Review:  This game is great. It looks extremely good, and sounds like your'e actually there. There are many 
 great battles, extremely well recrreated from the actual thing, making this game the peak in realistic 
 gaming quality. The sound of machine guns blasting through your house when your sound system is 
 cranked up to dangerous levels is simply beautiful. The only little problem about this game is 
 the fact that it is very similar to the first., but this is easily admissable. This game is great 
 for any fans of the previous Call of Duty and anyone who is even slightly a fan of WWII or likes 
 shooters should check this game out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: seano12
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jan 1, 2006 11:02 pm PT
Review:  *Yawn* i wake up on Christmas Morning but to find a sqaure present to Sean, I open it To find Call 
 of Duty Two
  I imitietdly Install it, i thought "Damn 6 cd's? man this thing is gonna wreck my hard drive". 
 I go play some single player and start the Russian training level, were you have potatoes as grenades 
 (nades) shoot some helmets, then run get a mg and smoke nades and kill those filthy nazis. 
  The grapics are very good if you have two video cards, a Radeon 9000+ AGP card and Nividia GeForce 
 6000+.
  This is The only game in the World that Has you fighting as a ranger going up a cliff at point 
 du hoc i should know cause all my games are pretty much shooters, and cause i saw D-Day The lost 
 Evidence on the History Channel.
  You fight in North Africa, France, and Russia. Sorry no Captin Foley this time, the only charachter 
 that has retured is well......... CPT. PRICE,
  YES HE'S BACK, THE CAPTIN IS BACK. 
  Sound: Sound is the 2'nd most important thing in any game is sound, this game has some of the best 
 explosion sounds a game could have and that you'd could ever want, theres some like neat orchestra 
 music in the game and more realistic gun sounds.
  New Guns in this game is the 4'th most important thing in this game, infinity ward has made the 
 classic gun ssuch as the m1, the B. A. R., the Mauser k98 (the kar 98... ITS REALY the k98 MAUSER, 
 these guys should get there gun names right) , and of course the ppsh sound more realistic and look 
 more realistic than ever before. There are a few new guns such as the PPSH 42 (the pre version 
 of the ppsh) Grease Gun, and the scoped Lee Enfied Mk.1, there are a couple of guns and other things 
 that are only in single player and not in multiplayer, such as the Scoped Gewher 43.
  
  Multiplayer: If you get tired or on a hard mission in singleplayer, here's something, Multiplayer!!! 
 Invented In 1999. It's fun to Kill nazis with ur budies while you drink some Ginger Beer (mmmm... Ginger) 
 same thing as always, choose ur gun.... and kill some nazis, Americans... Basicly anyone, Same modes 
 as Cod 1. (sorry no tanks) 1 Noobish gun, The Shotgun, feared by all its the trench shotgun, it 
 is the most powerful shotgun of its time and it will blow your head completely off ur body, too 
 many shotgun noobs, nut there are servers with no shotguns and 1 or 2 rifle only servers... with 
 about an average of 22 people per server, servers usally carry 32 people but some people alter 
 it so they could have 60 people.
  
  Very good game if you have the right pc and video cards.
  I'll be on the servers on the weekends 
 as Sgt. Matt Baker
  You have any questions email me via newte22001@yahoo. com
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Z39040
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 1, 2006 10:45 pm PT
Review:  Like i said, anyone who does not like this game deserves to die. This is a great World War 2 game, 
 possibly the best out in the United States. I'm going to go straight to the point. The sound in 
 this game is great i have surround sound and i nearly shat myself with this game tuned up. The 
 graphics are pretty good to i can only run the game with all settings up on my brothers computer. 
 The multi-player gaming on this is great. I can spend hours and hours playing multi-player. I recommend 
 anyone to get this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Slinger11
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jan 1, 2006 9:42 pm PT
Review:  You have no health bar so it does not matter how often you get shot as long as you are not in a 
 short period of time. Also when you do die you are re spawned at the very firefight you lost in. 
 Makes it to easy but its still fun to play. The sound was very realistic. I also liked how your 
 team would give you cover fire and support but the would not do everything for you. Compared to 
 the older version of call of duty I like it a bit more and the graphics look nice. The levels where 
 you play as a tank can be hard tho. I also like the historical cut scenes they put in between each 
 of the chapters of the game. Really made you feel like you were a bigger part in the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lev_six
Rating: 7.8
Date: Feb 22, 2006 6:00 pm PT
Review:  When someone creates a title with a new number after it, you expect some major improvements and 
 changes. Sure, it is one thing to not fix what isn't broken, but I found that it was just too similar 
 to be worth the purchase price. The graphics are cleaner though not as sharp as some of the other 
 FPS coming out right now. For example, while playing on a high end system, I found that the texture 
 and patterns of the environment was generally weak.
  
  It is the same game set in new maps with only very minor gameplay changes. This should have been 
 released as a major expansion pack instead of a "2" because it just doesn't cut it!
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: andrew_ribbons
Rating: 8.9
Date: Dec 15, 2006 9:19 am PT
Review:  I installed the demo. I loaded it up, it ran like a dream considering the slowness of the system, 
 and looked, and felt, like nothing i; d ever seen before. The action was as intense and involving 
 as real life, if not much better, as you don't ACTUALLY get shot with this! infact, it was so intense, 
 i paused the game to take a breath. The graphics are superbly crisp, with one of the best smoke 
 effects i've ever seen. The AI was deadly! I can't recall the amount of times i respawned at one 
 point, because the enemy kept sneaking up behind me, then meleeing me round the head, instant kill.
 
  
  Perfect for dual-card systems and other new components, and has a dual-card optimiser in the settings, 
 which is pretty sweet.
  
  Not recommended for the faint of heart, this game gets it pumping!
  
  The only let down: It 
 gets to feel repetetive sometimes in the final missions, which is a major gameplay letdown these 
 days.
  
  *update* I actually own the game now, it's nothing short of spectacular and the action is superb. 
 I would seriously recommend using the game in DX9 mode only if you have a Geforce 6100 or better, 
 as otherwise the general performance is too low. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 2nd_II_None
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jan 1, 2006 1:39 pm PT
Review:  I just went out and bought this game and believe me if you dont have a POWERFUL computer, you will 
 experience LAG like you've never experienced before, it is a huge game that takes a lot of space 
 off of your hard drive, but you will have an amazing gameplay experience. The multiplayer is just 
 as before FUN. It connects all over, wherever you live (so i dont exclude certain areas) and you 
 will be able to chat with everyone in the game. The single player is good but that'snot reall what 
 this game is about, free internet play is what it's about, all you have to do is click multiplayer 
 and you will automatically hook up to the internet provider you use. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MartyVice30
Rating: 9.1
Date: Dec 31, 2005 8:32 pm PT
Review:  I really loved playing this game from beginning to end. Pros and Cons below.
  
  Pros:
  - Really got you into the game and made you feel like a real soldier
  - Amazing cinematic battles 
 and cutscenes and some very fun moments that got you pumped up
  - Great graphics if your computer can handle it
  - AMAZING sound Guns sounded real and distant 
 gunfire and explosions in background and allies talk to u like in a real battle
  - great aiming system and health system
  - really good AI
  - really got u to know the soldiers 
 fighting around you and if u saw one of your friends die u felt sad
  - you cant just go running in blasting (on veteran) it promotes taking cover more
  
  Cons:
 
  - Too short, even though there was 27 missions, the game keeps you hooked so if you play alot 
 you can blast through this game in 5 days
  - Gameplay got a little repetative in the mid parts of the game like in British campaign
  - Sometimes 
 it got a little unrealistic and felt like your buddies werent doing anything
  - You need a pretty good system to run this game properly.
  
  Gameplay: really good and fun. 
 And gets u into it and pumped up. A little repetative but not much and u have fun through the whole 
 game.
  
  Graphics: Spectacular but u cant have a crappy computer or else they will be crappy. My system 
 below runs the game fine on Direct X 9 with medium settings.
  
  AMD Athlon XP 2800+
  2.08 GHz, 512 MB of Ram
  Video Card: Radeon 9800 Pro
  
  Not the best system but runs the 
 game fine on 800x600 resolution you might say 800x600 is insanity but it looks spectacular and 
 looks no different than 1024x768 and when I ran it on 1024x768 i got massive lag and 800x600 ran 
 fine. So my hint to you is if your getting lag lower your resolution rather than your settings.
 
  
  Sound: Best sound ever in a game the effects of gunfire and explosions in background and the tune 
 that plays when you pass or are about to pass a mission adds alot to the game and makes it more 
 realistic.
  
  Value: Value is good and bad. It is a great game and worth every penny, but it is a tad short and 
 you will pass it quickly. But then there i always multiplayer so u can keep playing.
  
  Another touch I really liked is whenever you die you are treated with an old war quote which I 
 really like.
  Great game and some missions are really fun and you will want to replay them once you pass the 
 game.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: TalSet_11
Rating: 8.7
Date: Dec 31, 2005 2:57 pm PT
Review:  well, i remember the original call of duty quite well. it was ahead of its time in both graphics 
 and gameplay. does call of duty 2 fill the large, bloodstained boots of its predecessor?
  
  pretty much, yeah.
  
  the graphics on the pc are really crisp and good. blood spray, grenade 
 explosions, all of it looks true to life and incredibly good. the sound is spot on perfect and 
 the character models.... whooo! it's a crazy, hectic experience that takes you from being a russian 
 soldier in the very beginning, to an english soldier in egypt in the middle, and wraps it all up 
 with an american campaign going from d-day to germany! it's awesome. one thing though:
  
  call of duty 2: big red one is NOT the same game! don't expect it to be any thing like the xbox 
 360 or pc versions! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: renegadedod
Rating: 9.8
Date: Feb 5, 2006 2:30 pm PT
Review:  I have finally finished the Single Player Campaign for this fantastic game, and have decided to 
 write a review on it.
  
  Activision, and all those who put an effort into this game, have outdone themselves. Call of Duty 
 2 has put the Call of Duty series on a new level, and makes the original game loot like crap when 
 in comparison with this game (and that game was amazing) .
  
  The new placement for the events of Call of Duty 2 are great. If they keep going at this rate, 
 then the next Call of Duty - if made, hopefully - will almost finish off the whole war as a summary 
 (except maybe the pacific part of the war) .
  
  The campaigns were amazing. They lacked that certain inspirational, empowering, and blood-pumping 
 touch that they had in Call of Duty: United Offensive - the music playing on the last mission as 
 you held out against almost inpossible odds against the enemy's waves to be just saved before being 
 crushed by reinforcements.
  
  This game was just utterly amazing. I find the weapon recoil to be the best in any game... it has 
 the lleast recoil, yet it seems a lot more realistic than the others games for having less recoil... 
 it should be less accurate, but recoild should stay the same. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Flaming_Blood
Rating: 8.3
Date: Dec 31, 2005 9:58 am PT
Review:  This game by far is one of the best games that illistrates the battles of WWII to date. Also if 
 you have an outstanding computer it will make the experience even more enjoyable. The grahpics 
 are outstanding, the new health system is more realistic, the sound brings you further into the 
 game and the way the menu is set up you can quickly click and replay any level you want. However 
 there is a downside, how the single player is perfect, the muliplayer is not. The new health system 
 is horrible online, causing a "Form" of realism that no one likes. The levels even add to the problems 
 caused by the health system, causing confusions in big levels. There is no protecion or cover in 
 parts of the level that are needed, so you get cut down and get frustrated. Even worse is that 
 if there are lots of players on a server the game is so fast paced you wont know what to do. For 
 instance you life span will be about 10sec.-5minuets no matter how good you are, you life will 
 flash before your eyes enough times to make you dizzy. The last problem will the multiplayer is 
 the mods people make and cause you to download before you go into their server, here are two of 
 the mods that pissed me off. The first one causes a head to blow off a players shoulder depending 
 on the amount of the blast, but this is a stupid modification because you can bash peoples heads 
 off and the heads dont even look real, it looks like a mask you would wear at Halloween! The other 
 mod is a blood mod, causing ever kill to drain every pint of blood in the players body spraying 
 covering a whole room with red liquid (talk about overkill) also the animation they have for it 
 looks like they are spraying red sand. 
  If you are looking for a game that has a great campaign that you can play over and over again and 
 dont really mind the muliplayer, then this is a game to buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FlashMagic91
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 31, 2005 2:23 am PT
Review:  Call of duty 2 is a great WWII fps. If you love WWII and a good fps this game is for you. The graphics 
 are good but not as good as some other games that are out know. The Gameplay and sound are exceptionnally 
 good, the sound makes you feel ur actually there with bullets whizzing past ur head and artiallry 
 going off. 
  The Gameplay itself is good with around 25-30 different weapons to choose from. Singeplyer is reasonably 
 short if you play it on anything but veteran mode but very good. You play as the Russians, British 
 and Amercans.
  In Multiplayer it is very strong with , team death match, death match, seach and destroy, headquarteurs 
 and capture the flag to choose from. Some great maps to choose from aswell. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zwulith
Rating: 9.1
Date: Dec 30, 2005 11:29 pm PT
Review:  In 2003 Infinity Ward released Call of duty, a rather intense and exciting First person shooter, 
 set in WW 2. You played as the 3 allied forces: England, America, and Russia. You went through 
 these 3 campaigns as various common soldiers and it was one of the first games that made you feel 
 as though you were a smaller part of a much bigger war. You also always fought with other troops 
 by your side and it was one of the most intense WW 2 games ever made. After that, Greymatter made 
 United offensive, which also captured much of what made Call of duty so great. After a misstep 
 with Finest hour, it's nice to see the original Call of duty developers creating yet another masterpiece: 
 Call of duty 2. Not much has really changed with this game, so if you've played the original, your 
 going to be in for the same intense, white-knuckle action.
  
  You start off the game playing as as a Russian soldier who just joined. This is probably the shortest 
 and easiest campaign of the 3, since it's the one that starts it all. Call of duty 2 immediately 
 starts off right after your training is done and you can see why everyone calls Call of duty 2 
 so intense and exciting. Waves upon waves of soldiers comes your way, friendly and enemy soldiers 
 yelling directions and where troops are, your shooting frantically hoping you don't get killed 
 while trying to follow objectives. This type of gameplay can be found throughout the entire game, 
 there really is no dull moment in Call of duty 2. 
  
  The Russian campaign is all about recapturing Stalingrad and it basically takes place right after 
 the original Call of duty. The entire Russian campaign takes place in Stalingrad and so it's nothing 
 but urban fighting. Throughout the campaign, you'll do certain objectives such as, shooting tanks, 
 retaking different parts of Stalingrad, and just shooting lots and lots of Nazi's. 
  
  The real fun part about Call of duty 2 is how satisfying the shooting is. As you fire off rounds 
 from your machingun or rifle, your foes react to every shot and their bodies go flying. The death 
 animation is done quickly, so you can tell who's dead and who isn't.
  
  As you progress through the campaign, you get to take the shoes of a British enlisted soldier, 
 who fights his way through northern Africa. This is the longest of the 3 campaigns. The British 
 campaign is all about taking out many soldiers of course and retaking certain towns from Germany. 
 Although it doesn't sound to significant compared to taking a whole city over and really doesn't 
 sound as much fun, it definitely has it's moments. The British campaign is the only one with a 
 few tank missions, wich are pretty well done, especially sinc eyou have quite a few other allied 
 tanks right along with you.
  
  After you finish the British campaign, you then start the final the 3rd, the American campaign. 
 The American campaign is all about D-day and retaking a German city. It is pretty action packed, 
 but then again the whole game is action packed.
  
  Call of duty 2 has quite a bit of weaponry and depending on which allied force your playing as, 
 you'll get different types of machine guns, pistols and rifles. Those are the only 3 types of weapons 
 besides the Panzerschrek. You don't get any shotguns in this game, but that's ok because the campaign 
 is so action packed and so fast paced that you won't have time to use the shotgun, you barely even 
 have enough time to use the rifles. All 3 sides has their own unique type of guns, but some are 
 way better than others. For instance, the British Sten machine gun is downright terrible. The firing 
 rate is low, the damage is low and the accuracy is abysmal. The German MP 40 on the other hand, 
 is way better and will likely be the machine gun you will be using throughout the entire game since 
 that's your enemies and that's the weapon they will be dropping. Thankfully, the MP 40 is quite 
 nice. The rifles and sniper rifles work out pretty well from a long range, but unfortunately, they 
 aren't to great. The biggest reason is because, right when you get ready to fire, chances are, 
 your allies have already shot half the German's you were about to kill and are ready to move on 
 to the next objective. 
  
  Call of duty 2 has changed some parts of it's gameplay. The biggest is the fact that you don't 
 have to pick up health anymore. As you take damage, you start to get red on your screen in the 
 direction where your getting shot, as you back off, this red will go away and your just fine, but 
 if you keep getting shot, soon the red will cover your entire screen and you will get killed. Although 
 this does ake off some of the intensity if your just facing a few soldiers, I mean no way can a 
 few soldiers kill you with this type of healing system, but I look at this in a good way, no longer 
 will you have to backtrack and look for health. You can clearly see that Infinity Ward wanted to 
 make sure you were in non stop action from start to finish and without a doubt, they succeeded. The 
 campaign isn't insanely long and shouldn't take you more than 10 hours to complete, but there's 
 still many reasons to go back.
  
  Call of duty 2's graphics are pretty good. Character models are very well detailed and your surroundings 
 are well done, but the animation of soldiers running seems somewhat stilted and the textures are 
 surprisingly bland. The good news is, you won't be noticing this to much thanks to the non stop 
 action.
  
  One of the best aspects of Call of duty 2 has to be the A. I. As I mentioned before, your allies 
 will be yelling where enemy soldiers are. In previous WW 2 games, your soldiers would yell out 
 useless words such as: "German soldiers are coming"! In Call of duty 2 however, soldiers will yell 
 "German soldier to the left behind the barrel"! That changes everything. Your allies and enemies 
 will also do things such as, flanking you out, turning tables up to use as cover, and even throwing 
 grenades back at you when you throw them. It really changes the whole gameplay experience and helps 
 making you feel more like a single soldier in a bigger war instead of the "one man army" that EA's 
 Medal of honor emphasizes.
  
  The sound department of Call of duty 2 however, is some of the most impressive ever put to a game. 
 The voice acting is superb, the weapon sounds are spot on, and overall, Call of duty 2's sound 
 is top notch. Everything flows from one battlefield to the other and you can hear all the bombing 
 runs from the planes and soldiers yelling, it really adds to the experience.
  
  Call of duty 2 is a great game. Everything about it is perfect, from the music, to the dramatic 
 voice acting, to the fast paced and always intense action, Call of duty 2 ranks as a game that 
 you must play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: iluvjapanesegrl
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 30, 2005 11:58 am PT
Review:  This game has a lot of strong points. It sounds and looks great, and the A. I is very excellent. 
 The only bad part of it is that the game is a little bit on the short side. A skilled 1st person 
 shooter can get through with this game in no more than 5-6 hours. A lengthened campaign option 
 would make this game perfect. The intellegence of the units in this game is outright incredible. 
 They will do anything to stay alive: from knocking down tables to taking cover behind walls and 
 throwing smoke grenades to cover their tracks. The sound gets you right into the battlefield and 
 you can literally hear the bullets whizzing past your head. The graphics intesify your environment 
 and keep you alert at all times. The Haloish healt setting is very good because it keeps you in 
 the gameplay better and you don 't have to go around searching for healthpacks whenever your blood 
 is low, just take cover and wait before re-entering battle. This game is an excellent 1st person 
 shooter, and I've enjoyed playing it up to date. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: December_Man
Rating: 6.5
Date: Sep 12, 2008 4:50 am PT
Review:  Call of Duty 1 was one of the best games I have ever played in my life. The expansion, United Offensive, 
 delivered an extremely good multiplayer. Call of Duty 2 has none of these.
  
  The biggest advantage of CoD2 are the epic battles. However the truth is that IW overdid it. Too 
 many huge battles and not even one quiet mission. The only night mission evolves from quiet to 
 'holy s*it, wtf is happening?!'. I think the silent missions in the first game gave a feeling of 
 variety. In CoD2 boredom comes fast. Too fast. 
  
  Oh, and the SP campaign is about 2 times longer than in the first game, which is a really noticeable 
 improvement.
  
  Graphics are just right. Nothing great nor some total crap. The DX9 mode available in the game 
 is much better, but nothing fancy.
  
  Now the MP. Total embarrassment. New types of gameplay, new (deployable) weapons, vehicles, much 
 larger maps, sprinting, which was presented in UO, all this is GONE in CoD2. There isn't even an 
 anticheat (!!!) . 
  What's more, the weapons are overbalanced. SMGs are both good at short and long ranges, rifles 
 - the same (!) . 
  The hitboxes are messed up, sometimes you are hit in the leg, but it says it was a headshot. 
 
  There's health regeneration and no medpacks which totally messed up the overall gameplay. 
  Grenade and enemy indicators? Please...
  Ability to jump AND shoot at the same time? Is this 
 a Quake game or what?
  
  The game has been totally noobified.
  
  The upcoming patch may fix that, but I'm reviewing what I got in the package.
  
  All in all: 
 DON'T BELIEVE THE HYPE! Better wait for some summer sales when the price goes down... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: onealrl
Rating: 8.8
Date: Dec 30, 2005 6:08 am PT
Review:  Normally I don't like a game when I can't save it whenever I want, but the autosaves come frquent 
 enough that it's not a problem. The way the game plays out is much like the first, with the three 
 nation single player campaign. I do like that they didn't leave you out to dry as much during the 
 Russian campaign as they did during the first. 
  The sounds and gameplay haven't dropped off a bit. Some of the AI character models have been updated 
 and the game still looks good overall. I'm still on the Russian campaign, can't wait to play the 
 other two; especially the desert campaign since it's kinda new for the series.
  Overall it's a good game that keeps you entertained but doesn't really break any new ground. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FirebladeC
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jan 11, 2007 12:35 pm PT
Review:  Call of Duty 2 is the sequal to one greatest second world war games ever made, and this new sequal 
 plays just as great as the first, the game has the same campaign layout with the chance to play 
 as an American, British and Russian soldier, the graphics have been highly detailed and improved, 
 which is great for someone with a powerfull computer but if not you have the option to turn these 
 options off making it have a 256 Ram mininum. The Gameplay is still staying to the original gameplay 
 with you staying with your squad and working through the missions, the new features allow to choose 
 which mission you want to do first allowing you to make your own path through the battle field, 
 the AI is much smarter so the enemy will stay as a squad and will work together. The health bar 
 system has been thrown out the window and made the health system similar to Halo, letting you survive 
 for longer when shot at a red blur will appear on screen, to stop this take cover and wait till 
 the red fades away then you can get back into the action other feature are that grenades kill you 
 instantly making it more realistic, so how to stop that from happening is to look out for an indicator 
 appearing telling you a simple direction of where the grenade is to tell you that theres a grenade 
 run like hell. you can play through all new campaigns and experience realistic gameplay and billiant 
 sound, original weapons and more with multiplayer available you can take the action to the world 
 and player against offers in Call of Duty 2 tournaments. one of the best first person shooters 
 of 2005, a must buy for anyone whos played and enjoyed the first. Not got a powerful enough PC, 
 getting a XBOX 360 then this another chance to relive the Second world war as its also available 
 on microsofts new XBOX 360. its well worth your money and is the best playing and looking game 
 of the year. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HenkeThaMan
Rating: 9.4
Date: Dec 30, 2005 3:42 am PT
Review:  Call of duty 2 is a WW2 Fps.
  If you dont has playd any WW2 games you better check this game out!
  Its the BEST FPS game 
 i ever has play (after halo 2.)
  Its not like you will start a mission and you have like 5-8 teamates and after 5 min they are 
 shoot!
  NO! Its more like they do all the work!
  Its realy cool when you hear they screem all over : get some cover! Queen six to King seven! do 
 you copy? and we take that machine gun out from the right!
  Well now to the graphics.. THEY ROCK! has never see something better!
  And the gameplay. Its 
 too one of the best i ever played! this game is amaszing! 
  And the suond! Its realy cool suond too!
  
  So this game is amazing! buy it!;)
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Eskouster
Rating: 8.3
Date: Dec 29, 2005 5:32 pm PT
Review:  Urban warfare in Call of Duty 2 is intense, gritty and chaotic, and is at times perhaps too realistic. 
 Germans pop up in expected places, MG42s can mow down swaths of infantry and houses have to be 
 cleared out room by room. But clearing out dozens of rooms in each mission can get a little old. 
 
  
  For the first time in my gaming experience, basic infantry tactics are integrated into the game. 
 You must use smoke grenades to cover your movement, flanking the enemy (especially machine guns 
 and tuns) is essential, and each soldier in the squad supports the other. 
  
  The AI on both sides is great. Your fellow soldiers will yell out the position of new enemies ("red 
 building, fourth floor, left side!") and your commander will give you orders and get your squadmates 
 to cover you. The Germans act believably, running for cover when they spot you, charging at you 
 in closed quarters. One of the most humorous and human reactions is when a German soldier runs 
 out from cover, is met by your squad's fire, and then runs back to cover. 
  
  I never really understood before how chaotic urban combat is. Enemies can literally pop out of 
 anywhere and kill you. It makes things very tense, the work methodical, and progress slow. When 
 everything is clicking, it makes for strong gameplay. But clearing out the third and fourth bunker 
 of a mission, or the sixth and seventh house, gets somewhat tiresome. 
  
  The Russian and American campaigns in particular have slightly repetitive objectives. There are 
 some fun breaks in the British campaign though. Tank combat is always fun, and there's the mandatory 
 Call of Duty armored car ride. 
  
  Co-Op would have been a nice feature - the sense of teamwork is already strong with AI, it would 
 have been a blast with a friend. 
  
  One huge issue: The game sometimes loses all your saved progress. There's a few workarounds you 
 can find online on the xbox. com forums that you should definitely check out before playing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Homosygus
Rating: 9.7
Date: Dec 29, 2005 5:09 pm PT
Review:  Man this game is so cool i got it on christmas and beat it a few days later. I think it is so much 
 better than the first because better sound, cooler graphics increase squad A. I. the squad actually 
 talks to you and tells you to take cover and tells you were the enemy is.
  Don't even get my started on the multiplayer it is so intense and they added some changes to the 
 old maps, and added some new ones, they added changes to some of the guns. The bad thing is is 
 that they took at the cooking off grenades and the sprint features. They also took out the portable 
 machine guns in the multiplayer, but they traded them off with so many other things it still makes 
 the game fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: akiri_uk
Rating: 9.3
Date: Dec 29, 2005 2:52 pm PT
Review:  The latest installment in the Call of Duty series seemed to be well worth the wait when I was playing 
 it offline. It was very immersive and set the scene very well. The length of the game was ok but 
 it was maybe too easy when played on the 'Regular' setting. But over all it was quite good as it 
 sustained amusement and entertainment very well. 
  But the multiplayer showed not much difference from the previous game: "United Offensive" so the 
 die hard fans might feel a bit ripped of at the multiplayer aspect whilst the new will feel the 
 multiplayer is pleasing and has it's values. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: killerkeebler
Rating: 9.3
Date: Dec 29, 2005 2:33 pm PT
Review:  Call of Duty 2 brings more eye candy, a smarter AI, and new content brings me in, however, it doesn't 
 bring anything really new. The improvements make it all worth it, however.
  
  The most noticeable improvement, or atleast in my eyes, is the elimination of crosshairs while 
 your moving. It does make sense, it does add a certain ammount of realism, and it definetly balances 
 out submachine guns in multiplayer. Dont get me wrong, you can still run and gun, but your not 
 going to be 100% accurate.
  
  The second thing you notice, that is if your playing singleplayer, is the AI, because we all know 
 you died the first time the enemy threw your own gernade back in your face. Gernades become your 
 most feared enemy with the new health system. The indicator is usefull... which brings me back 
 to the health system. Healthkits are gone, moving to a more halo-esque style system. Once your 
 hit, your screen starts turning red around the edges and you begin to hear your heartbeat. Once 
 you get into cover and lay low for a few seconds, your back to being good as new. However, running 
 into an enemy machine gun or being stuck in the open with enemy submachine gunners, your still 
 in danger of dieing.
  
  Multiplayer is the main seller of CoD2. Yes, the AI and well thought out missions makes single 
 player worth playing, over time multiplayer will be played more. The game types remain the same, 
 but new, well designed maps make things more fun. A bigger gun rack can't hurt either, with more 
 semi-auto rifles and submachine guns added in, along with the "trenchsweeper" shotgun. 
  
  Visually, the game looks much nicer. More attention was paid to adding things to the uniforms or 
 the guns to make it look nicer. And this was done without requiring you to bust open your case 
 for the newest videocard. My system for example is limited by its 64mb radeon 9200, which can't 
 handle Battlefield2. However, this game runs, and runs decently, only encountering lag, or percieved 
 lag, in smoke from smoke gernades. Online, I haven't lagged yet. 
  
  Overall, theres no reason to knock the game. It's more than worth it if you like WW2 shooters. 
 Graphically, it more than holds its own. Definetely worthy of a buy based on the gameplay. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Chillay
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 29, 2005 2:27 pm PT
Review:  1st thing i must say is make sure you put it on hard coz normal is way to easy!!
  okay its one of the best games i have played, once you have done single player u end up doin mulitiplayer.
 
  the grafics are great but seein as its actervision there always good.
  the controls are easy.
  the only let down is that there arnt enough single player missions.
 
  
  its so eintence lyk the first pactice mission you are already in war.
  it doesnt really take a good comp to play it but you shud have a good graphics card!
  
  The 
 game is so real and its set in WW2 so it has some old weapons but u still can kick ass with em 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: whazza600
Rating: 9.6
Date: Dec 28, 2005 7:58 pm PT
Review:  In all honesty, this is one of the best games ever. The single player is actually fun to play (im 
 a multiplayer guy myself) and it's intense. It makes you feel like you are actually in the war 
 fighting for your life. The multiplayer is some of the best I've ever played. The only problem 
 I have with the online, is on servers with more than 16 people. I don't like some of the maps, 
 because they are too small for over 16 people, and you can't even spawn without getting hit by 
 a grenade. The graphics in this game are some of if not the best I've ever seen. The screenshots 
 that gamespot has on their CoD2 page are garbage. They look like crap. If you have a good system, 
 this game looks AMAZING on maxed out graphics with AA and AF cranked up. Gamespot should've used 
 a better PC to take their screens. All in all, this game is a must have. Easily the best game of 
 2005. Buy this game if you don't already have it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sh4d0wc4st3r
Rating: 9.3
Date: Dec 28, 2005 7:17 pm PT
Review:  Call of Duty 2 is the next installment from the popular World War II game, Call of Duty, which 
 was released 2 years ago. Call of Duty 2 returns with new missions and more intense game play. 
 If you have played many other World War II games, this game will still have you entertained for 
 quite some time. With a realistic and of course, memorable single player mode and a rather competitive 
 multiplayer mode that works very well. The single player campaign is fun and long experience that 
 may have you playing it more than one time for sure. The multiplayer is a fast, exciting, and competitive. 
 Since, there are Death matches, once you die, you just respawn immediately. There are many servers 
 that play all of your favorite maps from the single player mode. Many servers are up and running 
 so you can easily jump into a server without any trouble. You play as three countries, the USSR, 
 Britain and the USA. All with different objectives that will effect the future. The invisible health 
 bar is a great feature. If you receive multiple hits by artillery, the edge of the screen will 
 turn red indicating that youre health is at its low. All you have to do is seek cover and youll 
 regain your health. Its like Halo 2 without the bar that tells you the health. Another feature 
 is the down the barrel shooting where you turn the gun and look through the aimers for precise 
 shooting far away targets. Most or all of the guns have there own melee attacks for close encounters 
 or if you manage to use up all of youre ammunition. And speaking of ammunition, you can easily 
 swap guns the are laying on the ground if youre out of ammo. 
  
  The game play in this game is top notch. The controls are basic with W, A, S, and D to move and 
 R as reload etc. If you dislike that well placed controls, you can just go to the settings and 
 change whatever command you wish. With the controls that well done, it makes the game more exciting 
 and more enjoyable to play. There are four difficulty modes to choose from if you need more practice 
 or youre just looking for a challenge. The game play overall is a great experience that helps 
 the game push to the top of its category.
  
  The graphics in this game is very well done. The environments that you play through, either if 
 its in Stalingrad or in Normandy, France, all look really, really good. That means that you have 
 a very realistic game that makes it that much more fun to play. The maps look really life like 
 and resembles history well. The character models and the gun models all look fantastic. There are 
 only graphically glitches when you put all of the setting to full. Either than that, youll have 
 a great looking game that runs smoothly.
  
  There isnt much to say about the game. The sound effects makes you feel like you were actually 
 there during World War II. Your teammates on the battlegrounds in single player all have their 
 on dialogue. Since youre not the General or Captain of your team, you will be receiving orders 
 that will keep your mission objectives updating. The gun sound effects are very realistic and all 
 have unique sounds. The explosions are very convincing and have you shaking if you turn the speakers 
 to full and are really into the game, which isnt hard to do. Its really that good.
  
  The value of this game is high. With all of the effort that was put into this game, it makes sense 
 that it was priced at $59.99 (Canadian) . Although, a lot of effort was put into this great game, 
 it feels quite repetitive at times. With similar missions and environments. But the country switching 
 makes that go away, but only for a limited time. The lengthy single player campaign and the competitive 
 multiplayer mode will have you playing this game for hour after hour.
  
  For me personally, I believe that this is hands down one of the greatest shooters of all time and 
 for sure the best World War II shooter until Call of Duty 3 comes out. Im still having a blast 
 playing this game and it doesnt look like Ill be stopping for a long time. Overall this is a 
 game to buy. Unlike console games, you cant rent this. But the fact is, you dont have to, its 
 worth every dollar and youll enjoy it for days, weeks, months, or even years to come.
  
  Final thoughts:
  This game is an instant classic, nothing so far can live up to this game. Every 
 single category is at high and nothing at low. This is a must buy game. If you're looking for an 
 experience that is unforgettable and memorable, there is completely no reason why you shouldnt 
 get this game. And plus you don't need a top of the line PC. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Eerron
Rating: 8.8
Date: Dec 28, 2005 3:05 pm PT
Review:  The game starts out in Russia. The training is very easy, but will learn you everything you need. 
 You learn to move, look, and the most important of all, shooting. The tutorial is exactly how any 
 tutorial in every game should be, short but very learning.
  
  Now you get into the real battles, Moscow is under attack, and you, Vasili (A famous Russian character 
 who sniped a lot of German officers under WW2) are going to repair a phone line which the Germans 
 have destroyed. This mission is not quite easy, since the save game system is pretty bad. You can't 
 save or quick-save the game yourself, and the automatic save system really needs patching, it's 
 not very often it knows when it has to save. Sometimes it saves when it has to, and sometimes it 
 doesn't even save in a whole mission, very frustrating.
  
  The Russian campaign is the most boring one. It's all the same most of the time. The health system 
 is not perfect either, when your breath is heavy it means that you are close to dying, and when 
 not, then you are at full health. There are no health packages in the game, and your character 
 doesn't seem to regain health, very annoying. 
  
  When you get to the British and the American campaign the game starts to shine. It's here you will 
 get the most out of your game, since all the missions here are great. The maps in these two campaigns 
 are more diverse, meaning that there much more variety for every corner you turn around.
  
  The sound everywhere is absolutely stunning. I love how it sounds on my X-fi and 5.1 surround sound. 
 Please listen carefully when you play this game, it's awesome!
  
  It's a great game really, but it just needed a few more weeks or months before it was done. Infinity 
 Ward, please patch this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TransAm-Jeff
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jan 11, 2006 7:27 am PT
Review:  Good question. A lot of people miss the tanks and sprinting that Call of Duty United Offensive 
 introduced to us. Most of those don't realize that Infinity Ward didn't make that expansion. That's 
 not the problem with this game though. 
  
  Problems, while small, are still a major factor in what makes MP not as fun as it was for CoD and 
 CoD: UO. 
  
  1. Hit Boxes. They seem totally out of whack. You can miss a target by a few inches yet the bullet 
 magically strikes them and kills them. I hope this is resolved with the next patch.
  
  2. Small maps. The maps are entirely too small. Especially when you're on a server with 32 players. 
 It becomes clustered up. It seems the maps were designed for DM and TDM while the folks that enjoy 
 Searcch and Destroy gametypes were left out. S&D plays better on larger maps. 
  
  3. Lack of new maps. Re-hashing old maps seems like laziness to me. Sure some of them are nice 
 but overall they're the same old-same old. 
  
  4. Lack of punkbuster or some kind of anti-cheat. There's entirely too much wallhacking and aimbots 
 in this game. They should've done like EA did with BF2 and included it with the game at launch.
 
  
  Still though, the game can be fun but it really needs all of those areas fixed.
  
  All of this being said, the single player campaign is amazing, just like on the xbox 360. You will 
 need a top of the line machine to get the most out of it graphically and without lag though. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Deathisnature
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 28, 2005 8:46 am PT
Review:  Call of Duty 2 is Amazon, the graphics are awesome. The explosions alone are the best I ever seen 
 in a game. Battle field earth 2 is good, but I have more fun with call of duty 2. I cant say enough 
 on how much I love the game play and the graphics. The Maps could probably be bigger, but overall 
 I have to give this game a Ten. I have the graphics turned up to highest levels possible and I 
 have no problems playing it on my G-force 5500. This game is the best game that I played in a while. 
 I recommend this game if you like first person games. The accuracy of the weapons are alway's perfect 
 . This game brought me back to PC gaming . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sabrefencing
Rating: 9.6
Date: Dec 28, 2005 8:23 am PT
Review:  This game is completely awesome, totally worth the money. The graphics are great, it almost never 
 lags and its a lot more fun not having a health metre like in the original. Overall, the game is 
 practically flawless. There is a wide assortment of weapons, and extremely realistic physic mechanics. 
 Fighting with a large group of allied soldiers instead of flying solo like in Medal of Honour Allied 
 is very appealing. There are plenty of guns to swap with, particularly the very dependable and 
 supurb German guns. the controls are very easy to pick up and the gameplay style only needs 5 minutes 
 to practice. An outstanding first person shooter, GET IT! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Texas69
Rating: 8.8
Date: Dec 27, 2005 4:32 pm PT
Review:  They've really done it this time. Activision and Infinity Ward have made a fantastic game and sequel 
 to the first Call of Duty. A very immersive game you feel more like your there, but your having 
 a blast while doing it. The only real problem in the game is there could be more realism. For some 
 reason your squad mates and you can take a bullet and wave it off as if nothing has happened. Also, 
 some levels would've been way cooler if you could go any where you wanted and the enemies react 
 to you. Even though tank controls are a little sketchy and for some reason you can be hit with 
 a millon bullets and never die, the game itself is great and has some reasonable challenging AI. 
 I give it an 8.8. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JrPere
Rating: 8.9
Date: Dec 27, 2005 1:30 pm PT
Review:  The first one was a big success. We' ve liked it, we' ve played it. It was worth waiting for the 
 next sequel. When I first started the game, I was amazed by the great graphics. If you have a sound 
 card that support dolby surround you will stay speachless, when you hear the sound. The gameplay 
 is easy ( we are used to it from the first part ) so there will not have problems. Maybe you will 
 need a more powerfull computer configuration for you to notice all the great things, but you may 
 also play with slower computer with minimal system settings instead. So that's it, I hope you will 
 enjoy your play, and have a lot of fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gamerman0203
Rating: 9.7
Date: Dec 27, 2005 10:41 am PT
Review:  It's an awesome game! Nothing really stands out as being drastically different from the first COD 
 which is the great part! It stays true to form! A few important changes like graphic quality and 
 new playability features give this game the extra it needs while keeps what made COD1 Game of the 
 Year. My favorite aspect is the enemy will keep coming at you if you sit and shoot! You can shoot 
 til your blue in the face. You won't actually make progress unless you take risks!!! The new health 
 system is great also! No hording around for health boxes. You can keep playing the game with no 
 distractions! A+ 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NJFragger
Rating: 9.1
Date: Dec 27, 2005 9:04 am PT
Review:  Pros: Graphics are excellent. Sound is realistic as it gets (although the M1's firing sound is 
 sub-par) . New grenade system. Battle-chatter system. New health system allows you to continue without 
 searching for health packs. Offers some non-linear gameplay.
  
  Cons: Friendly AI will shoot at crawling enemies instead of just using their melee attacks. New 
 health system makes the game Halo-ish. Multiplayer is sub-par, but still fun. Can only carry two 
 guns.
  
  Overall: If you're not sick of WW2 themed games yet, or a fan of Call of Duty, this game is the 
 one for you.
  
  Notes: Post Call of Duty 2, action mainly consisted of following a compass around and scrounging 
 for health packs along the way. In Call of Duty 2, you're still following the little star on your 
 compass. But wait, there's five little stars!
  
  Smoke grenades add a real of realism and tension. Example: You're pinned down by enemy fire. You're 
 low on Thompson ammo. A comrade has fallen and dropped his ammunition, but his corpse is out in 
 the open. You toss a smoke grenade in front of his corpse or in front of the enemies and make a 
 dash for the gun. You reload and charge their positions. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vikings1184
Rating: 9.7
Date: Dec 27, 2005 1:16 am PT
Review:  In all honesty, this is one of the best games ever. The single player is actually fun to play (im 
 a multiplayer guy myself) and it's intense. It makes you feel like you are actually in the war 
 fighting for your life. The multiplayer is some of the best I've ever played. The only problem 
 I have with the online, is on servers with more than 16 people. I don't like some of the maps, 
 because they are too small for over 16 people, and you can't even spawn without getting hit by 
 a grenade. The graphics in this game are some of if not the best I've ever seen. The screenshots 
 that gamespot has on their CoD2 page are garbage. They look like crap. If you have a good system, 
 this game looks AMAZING on maxed out graphics with AA and AF cranked up. Gamespot should've used 
 a better PC to take their screens. All in all, this game is a must have. Easily the best game of 
 2005. Buy this game if you don't already have it. 9.8/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: angel_gabriel
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 26, 2005 1:25 pm PT
Review:  Awesome, Amazing, Thrilling , the game u hardly get bored of...... well once u beat it, so far i 
 have played the demo and i have to tell it is amazing my computer system is the following:
  
  Amd athlon xp +2500 2 ghz 
  738 of ddr ram
  40 gb hard drive (weak!!!) 
  Radeon X700 
 Pro Agp (speed set x2)
  230 watt power supply
  
  And it runs great hardly no fuzz i mean the graphics are great, gameplay is fun and addictive the 
 the a. i. is tough, once u put it on veteran... the aiming is great makes u feel like ur really 
 in the war the sound quality is great with srg. screaming orders it feels like your really there. 
 all i have to say is play and experience this war game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gmreedy
Rating: 9.1
Date: Dec 26, 2005 12:21 pm PT
Review:  Here it is, Call of Duty 2 for the PC and XBox 360. I have it for my PC, and what a great reaction 
 out of me. Activision and Infinity Ward have done everything possible to expand on the original 
 Call of Duty, and have done it in a way that will definitely start the next - gen games series. 
 
  
  Gameplay -
  
  The gameplay that you can find in CoD2 is amazing compared to other WW2 FPS shooters such as the 
 Brothers in Arms series, and Medal of Honor games. CoD2 pulls out an excellent way of what real 
 war is like, as you can instantly find yourself in many conflicted situations, where just Runnin 
 and Gunnin is not gonna suffice. CoD2 makes you run for cover as artillery explodes near you, as 
 German soldiers try to suppress and flank your position, and it makes you fight back with intense 
 adrenaline. CoD2 also brought back some CoD type missions, whereas you would obviously have to 
 use sticky bombs in order to take out tanks or Panzerwerfers.
  
  Graphics -
  
  The graphics are absolutely amazing for CoD2's time right now. Compared to CoD's graphics engine, 
 this sequel will amaze you with state of the art general textures, real life soldier faces, all 
 the way to how Soviet soldier's breaths are visible in the freezing temperatures. This new CoD2 
 graphics engine is another addition to the realisim of the game, as you will take time off, as 
 I did, between battles to admire the beautiful landscapes and environments. Even with CoD2's graphical 
 beauty, make sure the Graphics settings are just right, or your game WILL suffer extremely low 
 FPS rates. Probably about 5 - 10 frames per second at the most if your graphics are set to high 
 proportions.
  
  Sound -
  
  The sound is even better than the graphics, with real life WW2 gun sounds, realistic grenade explosions, 
 and the best Orchestral score you can ever find in a WW2 game.
  
  Value -
  
  For 50 dollars, the game fits the market prices pretty good for most people. For the Collectors 
 Edition, 60 dollars is a bit too much to ask for, for just two DvD extras.
  
  Online Play -
  
  The online play is excellent for CoD2, and will excite many CoD fans to come. 
 The absolute worst thing done to CoD2 online is the Trench Gun, or the shotgun. It has been dubbed 
 as a big N00B's weapon, as it takes all the skill and fun out of the CoD game we knew. All it does 
 for people is that it enables them to run up to players and blow the brains without no skill or 
 concept of war whatsoever. Using Run and Gun is very selfish and noobish in mine and many other 
 player's opinions. Using the Duck for cover, suppress the enemy, and flank the enemy, along with 
 teamwork, finishes the job like a soldier. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: oamorap
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 26, 2005 11:39 am PT
Review:  Esperaba un poco mas de este juego, a pesar de tener una excelente calidad grfica y un sonido 
 espectacular digno de un COD, quede francamente decepcionado por que lo encontre demasiado corto 
 y demasiado sencillo ( y no, no es cosa de cuadrarle la dificultad) . Si usted ya ha pasado por 
 otros juegos de este estilo como cualquier Medal Of Honor o el mismo Call Of Duty, COD2 no le ofrecera 
 gran reto, si, lo acepto, los nazis son un poco mas dificiles de matar, pero no es nada del otro 
 mundo.
  
  Entre lo bueno, de nuevo el ambiente de guerra es impresionante, lo ya mencionado del apartado 
 grfico, el sonido y la variedad de misiones. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lpfan4life0904
Rating: 9.1
Date: Dec 26, 2005 11:26 am PT
Review:  Where to begin...
  
  First off, let me just say this game is amazing. In my opinion, it's the best in the series.
 
  
  Graphics in this game are incredible, Infinity Ward definatly put a lot of time in visuals in this 
 game. It's just crazy how good the game looks. The weapon models look fantastic. Along with the 
 sounds. It gives you that feeling of actually being there and showing you what actual people went 
 through. Overall gameplay is once again amazing. As i stated above, when play, it gives you the 
 feeling of actually being in the war.
  
  Though, i wasn't to happy about the fact you can only carry to weapons with you now. Unlike in 
 CoD & COD: UO, you were able to carry two weapons, a side arm, and a couple of grenades. While in 
 CoD2, you can only carry only two weapons and a few grenades. But what made up for that is some 
 of the new weapons they put in.
  
  To me, the single player in this game seemed much longer then both previouse CoD games. As usual, 
 once you start playing SP, you have to keep playing until you beat it. It's very addictive like 
 CoD & CoD: UO. Multiplayer is just like before, just new maps that are fun to play once you get 
 used to them. They did however bring back some maps from CoD, like Railyard (which is now Stalingrad, 
 Russia) , Brecourt (Brecourt, France) , Dawnville (St. Mere Eglise, France) , which they have made 
 some tiny changes to.
  
  The health system in the game is okay, though it's not very realistic. Because once you get shot, 
 the screen starts flashing red, which means you have to take cover and wait off until it stops 
 flashing then you can go back out again and won't have to worry about the health meter on the side. 
 Which doesn't give too much realism because in real life if you get shot quite a bit you can't 
 take cover and wait, then you'll be fine. The only other thing is the smoke grenades, especially 
 in multiplayer it can tend to get really laggy.
  
  But overall, CoD2 is simply awesome. This WWII FPS gives you the overall feeling of actual war.
 
  
  This game is certainly not a dissapoinment, and for anyone who likes FPS should check the game 
 out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheDotCom
Rating: 9.1
Date: Dec 26, 2005 10:15 am PT
Review:  After completing Call of Duty 2 I found it to be an amazing game overall but there were a few flaws 
 that I didn't quite catch in the first one.
  
  The gameplay was the same but that's not a bad thing. Once you find something good, stick with 
 it. Though I did find it to be easy when it wasn't on the easy difficulty which I didn't think 
 the first Call of Duty was easy at all. I found it quite difficult. I'm not saying you breeze right 
 through the game without dying but you'll find you can finish this game in less then 10 hours. 
 
  
  The graphics were amazing. Very realistic looking. There were a few things though that did stand 
 out. The blood looked a bit.... Well fake. Yes, it is fake, it's a game, but when they make a game 
 that looks awesome overall but the blood looks fake is not good. The gravel and few explosions 
 looked pretty corny as well. Overall though the graphics were stunning.
  
  The sound was the best part of the game. When playing this game you must have the volume turned 
 up as loud as possible because with it so loud it makes you feel like your really in the war along 
 with the amazing graphics that help out alot. I though all the sound effects sounded great just 
 like the last game.
  
  After you complete the game, you have the multiplayer mode which is just as fun and addictive as 
 ever before. You'll find yourself playing hours after hours and through the nights. You serouisly 
 will be playing the multiplayer for a long time. There are lots of maps but I wish there could 
 of been more. After playing so long I feel like I've played every map a thousand times. Even though, 
 I still keep going back just so I can't get better and improve my skills. Overall, there isn't 
 much to complain about in the multiplayer except a few glitches, but that can all be taken care 
 of with a few patches.
  
  Overall, Call of Duty 2 is a must have whether you like wars game or hate them or if you like first-person 
 shooters. I highly recommend this game to any
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: stevey_p7
Rating: 9.6
Date: Dec 26, 2005 8:25 am PT
Review:  Call of Duty 2 has everything you need to get into the World war. The mix between graphics and 
 gameplay are soooo class and when playing online the game speed is not slurred at all and pixelation 
 remains fantastic!
  The game is just so easy to get online and play!
  
  When you play this game you feel like your actually in the real time atmosphere of Allied-German 
 Warfare, the many maps and modded maps to choose from is a real score with many online users!
 
  
  A must buy for any person who loves shoot em up games!!!!!! :-)
  
  www. ubisoft. com/callofduty2 
  
  Take a look at the screenshots to see the grahics, im still 
 amazed at how good it is! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: geckoguy
Rating: 9.7
Date: Dec 26, 2005 8:09 am PT
Review:  i got this christmas day and i was able to jump right into action with campaign. the graphics are 
 the most lifelike you will ever see and the multiplayer on this game has replaced halo 2 live with 
 realistic infantry axis vs allies ctf, deathmath, and search and destroy. i give this game a 9.7 
 the good is that the the graphics are stunning and the dialouge in campaign is great along with 
 the overall presentation. in my opinion there was nothing bad and its better than the xbox 360 
 version and dont get me started with the problems of big red one. there is a good variety of guns 
 from machineguns to rifles and even shotguns. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheCrazyGuy1
Rating: 9.4
Date: Feb 11, 2006 2:54 am PT
Review:  Call of Duty 2 is one of the best first person shooter games this year. It features many cool weapons, 
 intense shootouts and loads of fun missions!
  
  You get to play as Russian, British and American soldiers in 3 fun campaigns in many different 
 environments and battlefields. From Moscow to El Alamein, from North Africa to Normandy, this is 
 a action packed game thats so fun, you can't stop playing!
  
  In every video game, there are highs and lows. Here they are....
  
  Highs
  1. Intense shootouts
 
  2. Cool weapons
  3. Fun D-Day Mission
  
  Lows
  1. Several missions tend to get boring
  2. Lame game design
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: dregolith
Rating: 9.6
Date: Dec 25, 2005 9:22 pm PT
Review:  I must say that Infinity Ward and Activision have done it again. As soon as you play you are instantly 
 hooked and I suggest that if you haven't already get a graphics card that can handle running this 
 on high. My jaw dropped at the lv of detail and how easily you are immersed into this sea of war. 
 If your graphics card cant handle it then it may just seem the same as COD1, though even if it 
 is like the first it is still a great game. I recommend buying this as soon as you can but take 
 your time with it, don't make the mistake I made in rushing through the game in less that 2 days. 
 The multi-player is also awesome and it is a very smooth game. I gave it 9.5 because if your graphics 
 card cant live up to the game it just seems like the other ones. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: drowningfish999
Rating: 8.9
Date: Dec 25, 2005 9:20 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay: 9/10
  If you've played the first Call of Duty, you probably have a good idea of what to expect in the 
 single player campaign. Not much has changed in this respect, except for more enemies, and more 
 explosions. It's still an action-packed, exciting experience. However after the first or second 
 time, it begins to get repetitive, and the AI of the other soldiers isn't good enough to make it 
 seem like a different scenario each time.
  The multiplayer on the other hand, is a step down from the previous game. Not only are a number 
 of features removed, such as cooked grenades, vehicles, and sprinting. But a number of multiplayer 
 modes are removed as well. Leaving only Deathmatch, Team Deathmatch, CTF, and Search and Destroy. 
 A number of mods however, have solved a few of these losses, especially the cooked grenades, but 
 it is still a long way off from the first game.
  
  Graphics: 10/10
  No debate here, this game has graphics like none other. They are extremely realistic, and although 
 this can get slightly laggy at times, especially while sniping or with smoke, it still is amazing 
 how detailed and realistic the game looks.
  
  Sound: 10/10
  Again, no competition. The sound is realistic, exciting, and very good sounding, adding immensely 
 to the gameplay value.
  
  Value: 9/10
  The game is definitely a masterpiece of its generation. And it is also extremely popular. Chances 
 are, you will not be disappointed with the purchase of this game. However, you may also find it 
 to be a waste of money, seeing as some of the gameplay elements may not be worth the price that 
 you pay.
  
  Tilt: 8/10
  My biggest concern about this game is the lack of customer support. Although if you buy it for 
 the single player part, it doesn't make a huge difference, it definitely affects the multiplayer 
 aspects. There has yet to be a patch released for this game, and it desperately needs one. Any 
 server you join is almost GUARANTEED to have at least 10% of the people using some sort of hack 
 or aimbot. Needless to say, this really hurts the gameplay, especially when your being beaten around 
 by someone who talks all tough, yet is clearly not that good. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hacker90
Rating: 9.1
Date: Dec 25, 2005 9:09 pm PT
Review:  So you start off in Russia in the Moscow Defense. Fun? Yep. Well then you might think you would 
 get to play some of it. But, then you get shipped off to Stalingrad for the rest of the Russian 
 Campaign. How boring it is to play the same old crap isn't it?
  
  The game is quite short. Which is one of the screwed up things in the game. One thing that bugs 
 me is that Activision really does not know its history at all for WW2. The weapons look great. 
 But, the detail is just horrible for the Sides. I. E the Armor. I don't think a German Panzer 2 
 with a 20mm 10 clip cannon can destroy a T34 Come on!! Only 2 Tanks you will see for Germany. A 
 piece of crap Panzer 2 and the Nice Tiger Tank. Helloo... Panther. Panzer 3. Panzer 4 comes to mind?
 
  
  The graphics are excellent. Gameplay is solid but, a real lack of missions. Well worth buying in 
 my opinion.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: rwjvernon
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 25, 2005 2:31 pm PT
Review:  This games has spectacular action, sounds and graphics that immerse the player in a WW2 environment 
 - the sequences are brilliantly thought out, such as the pipeline with the shots coming through, 
 and dogfights in the sky taking your eye off the people shooting at you on the ground.
  
  On the easier levels it is maybe too forgiving so I would recommend one of the tougher levels.
 
  
  You just know, instantly, that you will love this game when you play it - and it is done with a 
 level of respect for the history - hence the Military Channel footage etc - I'm not saying the 
 gameplay is recreating reality, it is more Half Life than True Life, but the look and feel is genuine.
 
  
  I found this for 20 - so a bargain as well!
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: razipagazi
Rating: 9.8
Date: Dec 25, 2005 12:36 pm PT
Review:  Lets begin with the title --  Call Of Duty 
  The first game was aowsome ( 9 on gamespot)
  
  Weapons:
  (You got a F--- shot-gun!!) the guns are great and solid you can accshuly feel like 
 your holding them and making hole's in nazi's head's. there is a lot of weapons to use/ each one 
 with his spcial abilitis.
  
  sound:
  (F --- great!!)
  I gave the sound in this game 10 beacuse it is perfect!, and the voice acting! holy ---- , and 
 the voice acting was great also, sound effects perfect ( very nice with the russians!) 
  
  graphics:
  when its on the highest level its amazing!! 
  all the explotions and the boombed 
 full of fogg world of WW2 looks great!
  
  in conclution, its your DUTY to have it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ernest132132
Rating: 9.3
Date: Dec 25, 2005 12:09 pm PT
Review:  THis game rocks! THere are 3 primary things about this game that makes it diffrent than others. 
 First, you can play in all places. RUSSIAN 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AzraeLskI
Rating: 8.8
Date: Dec 25, 2005 10:04 am PT
Review:  Its a fantastic game and if anything you should buy it because it fells like the first game. But 
 thats the problem. It doesent add anything new to this serial. I looks like some better expansion 
 and its still too short . I mastered the game in just 4 days. But dont thnk its not worth playing. 
 Nothing can compare to the feeling of defending the hi against nazi attacks or the feeling of invading 
 normandy and running to shelter when the artilery barrage starts. Weapons in the game are still 
 cool but there are no new ones. Still its a greaat game to play and I think you should try it out 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xbox_4_ever
Rating: 9.6
Date: Mar 4, 2006 2:23 am PT
Review:  Where to begin in this perfect game? im gonna start with the best thing in the game the sound.
 
  
  this one is perfect don't put your sound system to loud or else you'll bounce out of your seat!!! 
 almost every part of the game is really loud and intense with your comrades screaming or nazis 
 firing weapons. its a really wild atmosphere.
  
  There's one thing i don't like is the game being kinda short, its really fun while its not completed 
 but you'll want to throughout the campaign again that's what saves it, well that and the multiplayer 
 mode which is soooooo awesome with a max of 32 players online. just great
  
  now about the graphics their really good even if u haven't got a good video card but you really 
 need to have a good amount of ram memory for the loadings and at least a 1,6Ghz processor to enjoy 
 this game.
  
  you need to buy this great game, the multiplayer mode is really good too but the single player 
 it self its the best part of the game.
  this game is the best WWII fps game of all time.
  definitely worth playing!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: blaze0506
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 25, 2005 1:21 am PT
Review:  Well, now im reviewing on the full game. There was only downside i could find about this game.... no 
 sprinting. i dont care if the new health system isnt "realistic" did Activision say that it was 
 supposed to be super realistic? NO! Was the last health system realistic? NO! so all of the whiners 
 that say the health system isnt "realistic" are flawed reviews because the health system wasnt 
 realistic to begin with. Now, onto the graphical part of this game.... one word BEAUTIFUL! The 
 gameply is also pretty good, a few slowdowns but thats it. The sound like i said before, it draws 
 you in, like bait to a fish. This game is bound to keep you entertained for at least 5 months. Overall 
 this is the best 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BlackLusterMage
Rating: 9.4
Date: Dec 24, 2005 7:42 pm PT
Review:  I've never played Call of Duty 1. I can say that Call of Duty 2 is one of the best FPS games with 
 WW2 background that I've played. The missions not only diverse greatly, but also possess much challenges 
 to overcome. And I really just loved the idea of having a whole squad of AI-controlled allies with 
 you. In many other FPS games, players most times act as an "elite" of some kind and attempt to 
 go head to head with a large amount of enemies, while those games can be difficult, they really 
 won't take you to the level of where you feel like you are part of a huge war. Call of Duty 2 is 
 different, you are not an elite, you are simply one soldier, meaning to complete your missions 
 you will need the help from your comrades. The allies' AI is very nicely programmed, they are capable 
 of performing many different task such as yelling "potato masher, run!!!!!!!" or asking for covering 
 fire while reloading. In terms of graphics, the game looks absolutely fantastic - if you got a 
 VERY nice computer, that is. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ilikegodalot
Rating: 6.8
Date: Mar 13, 2007 12:35 am PT
Review:  Call of Duty 2, WOW was this a change or what? Pro's: Single Player is amazing, good graphics, 
 well thought out maps, and Multiplayer can get addictive
  
  Con's: No updates so far (soon to change) , Machine guns seem to be unbalanced, and pretty damn easy.
 
  
  Graphics: The graphics are amazing in Call of Duty 2 I don't care what people are saying they are 
 very well done. Oddly though they seem to do better on DX7 than on DX9 which I find very odd. My 
 graphics card can handle the game quite well and isn't even that great (gforce fx 5600)
  
  Sound: Pretty good sounds except for maybe the PPSH and the Breathing. The PPSH sounds like a minigun 
 from the terminator and the Breathing sounds like the guy has asthma :) .
  
  Gameplay: Overall its pretty damn fun and you just can't stop playing it for the first few days. 
 Singleplayer is really awesome but fairly easy and beatable in a couple of days. Multiplayer on 
 the other hand is REALLY easy if you use guns like the thompson or PPSH, if you want a challenge 
 go for a kar98k or mosin-nagant.
  
  Overall: Fairly fun, defiantly worth the money, Always fun in matches so get out there and join 
 a clan :D. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tails123
Rating: 9.4
Date: Dec 24, 2005 12:01 pm PT
Review:  Call of Duty 2 shows what is really meant by next generation of gaming. It contains a wealth of 
 gameplay and is also supported by a great multiplayer. The singleplayer campaighn is so immersive 
 I couldn't stop and played the whole game in 7 hours with it set on easy. The graphics were amazing 
 and the sound effects are passed by none. Call of Duty 2 brings a truly unique experiance for the 
 FPS gamer and it is an exelent sequle to one of the best WWII shooters of all time. When you land 
 on the beaches of Pointe du Hoc it almost feels as though you were acctually there. The AI is exelent 
 in this game as well. Your enemies will try to flank you, grenade fortified positions, give each 
 other covering fire, and other tactical manuvers. Call of Duty 2 really shows what is meant by 
 next gen gaming. It dose not have the great graphics like in Half Life 2 or Doom 3 but this really 
 has the value and content to keep a player intersted. The way the makers at Infinity games designed 
 the game so that you do not have to stop and save the game or look around all over the place for 
 weapons, ammo, or health. This allows you to focus on your misson and the objectives of the game. 
 Call of Duty 2's smoke effects and partical effects are surpased by no other game before. CoD 2 
 is a magnificent title and I recomend that you pick it up if you have the right system requirments. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stinkyfarts333
Rating: 9.7
Date: Dec 24, 2005 10:49 am PT
Review:  This game is way better than the old Call of Duty. Infinity Ward made humongous improvements to 
 this game. They improved the graphics. They removed the health bar which may sound crazy but it 
 is pretty good. The multiplayer action is also better than many other shooters. The game itself 
 has that haloish feel to it. It feels addicting like Halo did. The action and story is just too 
 good. Compared to games like Quake 4, Doom 3, etc this games comes at the top of the barrel. 
 
  The graphics of the game make you feel immersive and makes you feel like you can just pull out 
 a gun from the screen. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jason210
Rating: 7
Date: Jul 14, 2006 7:44 am PT
Review:  I see that most users who've reviewed this are very impressed by it; but you only need to compare 
 it's 3D engine to the Half Life 2 source engine it to put things into perspective.
  Call of Duty 2 single player campaign begins very promisingly, placing you in a training mission 
 at the hands of Soviet Commander with superb character animation and graphics. After shooting a 
 few bottles and helmits, you're sent off to fight the Germans in the streets of the Russian city. 
 The mission is quite short, and if you're good it will be over in less than 10 minutes. The missions 
 that follow are also short, and in fact, the whole Russian campaign is short. You'll finish it 
 in two or three hours. Then it's on to a Desert Campaign, which is also quick and short. This was 
 a disappointment for me.
  GRAPHICS AND SOUND
  The games strength is the way it (momentarily) immerses the player into a cinematic World War 2 
 battlefield. This is due mainly to an excellent combination of top notch graphics, clever character 
 animation of the your squad, and some great sound. Explosions, smoke and fire all look totally 
 real; and the dialogue of the characters is very authentic - particularly the yelling of the Germans 
 in their native language when they are being stormed.
  
  GAMEPLAY
  Gameplay is strictly linear, and I felt this linearity much more than in other similar games of 
 today, such as Half-Life 2. During one of desert campaigns, I missed a couple of objectives, and 
 had to go back to do them, but I was prevented from doing so as an invisible wall stopped me going 
 to where I had been just five minutes before, while a voice from nowhere shouted "wrong way"! The 
 linear structure also makes the game very easy, since the way forward is always obvious. The missions 
 are the canned type, so if you play them again, everything happens exactly the same.
  
  PHYSICS
  Another downside to this game is the lack of real physics. After Half-Life 2, which 
 set a new standard for real-time physics simulation, who cannot fail to be disappointed when you 
 shoot a wooden crate and nothing happens? This is just the same as Soldier of Fortune, or Quake 
 II.
  
  VEHICLES
  Vehicles are present, but you can't get in and drive them at will; you are either in a vehicle, 
 or not in it. Again, would have been nice to be able to get in a drive any vehicle (like Operation 
 Flashpoint, Far Cry) . 
  
  MISSION EDITOR
  Sadly, no mission editor!
  
  VALUE
  At a standard retail price range of between $40 and $50, I think this game is overpriced when you 
 consider what you get for the same money with games like Half-Life 2. Once you've played the Single 
 player campaign, you don't really want to play it again because it will be identical. The only 
 saving grace in terms of value is the multiplayer mode, although It isn't half the fun of Half-Life 
 2 because of the lack of physics. Sorry, but I expect better than this for major title in 2006!!
 
  I kept mine for two weeks then put it out on Ebay.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: kocka
Rating: 8.6
Date: Mar 31, 2006 6:39 am PT
Review:  Gameplay.
  As I said before its pretty cool. As you run through the battlefield bullets hit the ground near 
 you, and impact into your comrades' head. You throw a grenade, and see how the enemies blow up. 
 The enemy soldiers are streaming from south, and west, and you got to stop them. It's all on you. 
 In the game you can find 3 carrer segment. The first is the Russian campaign, the second is the 
 British (North-African) campaing, and the last is the American one. My personal favorite is the 
 British one. By the way i'll say some words about the multiplayer function of the game. It's fun, 
 and even more exciting, than the singeplayer. Try it, it won't gonna disappoint you.
  
  Graphics.
  You can's say anything bad. In full graphics, it looks great. Very nice! Even in medium 
 or low graphics level, it's pretty nice. Some words about the system requirements. You don't have 
 to have a tiptop extreme PC to run it in high settings. Don't worry, i'm sure, that you will enjoy 
 it in low graphics too.
  
  Sound.
  The sounds are great too. You are on the battlefield, and all your teammates are shouting: "Vasili, 
 destroy that tank" "Look out, they're coming!" "Stay down!!". It gives an awesome feeling to the 
 game, it pumps the gameplay up to 10 points :) .
  
  Value.
  Well, you can play through the campaign in a couple days, and i think it's worth to play it through 
 one more time. But if you get bored of the singleplayer, go for the multi. You can't lose your 
 interest in multiplayer, i guess. It keeps the value of the game in high levels. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gordon404
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 19, 2006 11:17 pm PT
Review:  I have been a fan of call of Duty ever since the first one came out and i went and played it at 
 my local gaming spot, where i went on to buying it. I always loved it because of its fantastic 
 realism and authentic exprience.
  
  Of course then i was delighted when i bought this game and found it was all it had cracked up to 
 be. The graphics are better, the sound is brilliant (with loads of guns firing, people shouting 
 and the general sounnds of war) . There are huge amounts of men on the battle field at one time 
 so this adds to the great experience, where you are always caught up in a fire fight, pinned down 
 and what not.
  
  I have but one complaint. This is that your team mates die far too easily. You will always find 
 that when you start a level, apart from your squad that need to live into the next level, none 
 of the original men will be there, all being killed in battle, i mean common! There must be some 
 good men out there who can live through and stand by you.
  
  Well if you want to get great gaming experience, with great realisitic fun then this is the game 
 for you. An instant masterpiece! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gr33nHippo
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 23, 2005 5:24 pm PT
Review:  This game sucks in comparison to the first Call of Duty. The single player is alright, but a lot 
 of times you will be saying "OMG i shot that guy and he didnt freakin die." a lot of bullets shot 
 right on target miss the enemy. As for the multiplayer, it is also not as good (i have played the 
 first game's multiplayer for a long time and i was disappointed to see how this game turned out) . 
 The health bar is no longer there, and instead your health regenerates, which i dont agree with 
 since a sniper could just prone for a couple seconds and return with full health. The guns seem 
 less comfortable and harder to wield. 
  
  the graphics look awesome, and the sound is great. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rummyville
Rating: 9.4
Date: Dec 22, 2005 4:13 pm PT
Review:  Id have to say that this game is just plain fun! I am a big BF2 fan and love the game but COD2 
 brings new adventures to the table.
  
  Single player:
  The single player in this game is very good and exciting all the way through; although dont sell 
 yourself short, you should play it on the hardest level or you will probably blow right through 
 the game. Plus the harder the setting the more strategic one becomes.
  
  Multiplayer: The multiplayer took some getting use to because I normally play BF2 where you have 
 to shoot somebody a whole bunch of times to kill the enemy unless you get a head shot. COD2 is 
 a little quicker on the kills like AA, depending on the gun you use but it has a self rejuvenation 
 effect meaning if you get shot the screen starts turning red and you can pull back to safety and 
 you automatically start healing yourself. Plus it brings on five different multiplayer styles which 
 are Death Match, Team Death Match, Capture the Flag, Retrieval and a new addition which is Head 
 Quarters. All of these make the game definitely worth the purchase.
  
  Graphics: The graphics are great although you will most likely have to be running the game on a 
 really good computer for optimal performance. The system requirements for this game are a little 
 high but when you have it its awesome.
  
  Sound: The sound is another great quality this game has to add to its arsenal. If you have a good 
 sound card and a surround sound system it will make you feel like youre in the middle of combat. 
 Its great!
  
  I would get into game play but I already kind of covered that earlier so Ill stop from repeating 
 myself. In my opinion this game is going to be enjoyable for a long time.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: mr_jarvo
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 22, 2005 6:28 am PT
Review:  I got this game a few days ago and i have been stuck to the screen playing it. It's just that amazing. 
 If you enjoyed playing the old Call Of Duty then you will absolutley love this game. You seriously 
 need to buy it. 
  
  Multi-player is just simply addictive and just so fun. You could simply just sit down and play 
 this game for the whole day
  
  The single player just like the old COD but with new levels and better graphics. And the sound 
 is mind blowing it's amazing. 
  
  When i first got it i sat down and completed the whole thing. Although in the single player I find 
 it funny how in the Russion missions you find yourself running after tanks with sticky bombs whist 
 being shot at. Basicly suicide.
  
  Overall this game is one of it's kind. Its an absolute master piece. Activision have done themselves 
 proud. Cant wait for COD3. Gotta go play it now. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fretje
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 22, 2005 3:46 am PT
Review:  It's realy a great game. The best firts-person shootergame ever made.
  The only problem is: it's a bit short. I played less than 10 hours to complete the game at 'regular'. 
 It's is also a bit slow at maximum perfomance, but who need max performance. The graphics are very 
 good, I never heard a more realistic sound of guns and explosions, the emotions on the faces of 
 your buddies is great, the moves of your enemies are also great, ...
  The places to fight are not the same of 'Call of Duty 1' (exept a few, but they are renovated so 
 they are different of 'Call of Duty 1')
  
  !!!!!! YOU NEED THAT GAME!!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: eddiebone
Rating: 9.2
Date: Dec 21, 2005 7:45 pm PT
Review:  GameSpot | GameFAQs | Metacritic | MP3. com | TV. com 
  
  prefs | logout eddiebone level 4 (85%) My Games --- 
  n/a 
  n/a background color: search: home 
 pc ps2 ps3 psp xbox xbox 360 gc rev ds gba nge mobile news tech downloads videos features forums 
 Reviews Previews Cheat Codes New Releases Top Games All PC Games Upgrade Call of Duty 2
  Summary Reviews News & Previews Images Videos Downloads Hints & Cheats Related Games Forum Buy 
 It Full Review
  User Reviews (371)
  Other Reviews (81)
  About Our Rating SystemGameSpot Review8.8
  greatGameplay 9 
  Graphics 8 
  Sound 10 
  Value 
 8 
  Tilt 9 
  Difficulty: Medium
  Learning Curve: About a half hour
  Stability: Stable
  Tech Info Video Review Bob Colayco gives the final word on the latest installment 
 in Activision's ambitious World War II shooter. 
  watch download If you liked the original Call of Duty, then you're sure to enjoy the sequel, which 
 stays true to the strengths of its predecessor. 
  The Good: Excellent presentation; aggressive enemy ai; makes you really feel like a small part 
 of a bigger war; varied campaign; fun multiplayer. 
  The Bad: Performance can chug at times. 
  When the original Call of Duty was released a few years 
 ago, it made an impact both on critics and on consumers, even in the already-crowded WWII shooter 
 genre. Call of Duty's visceral action struck a chord with PC shooter fans, thanks to a well-designed 
 campaign, enjoyable multiplayer, and outstanding sound effects. If you liked those aspects of the 
 original, then you're sure to enjoy the sequel, which stays true to the strengths of its predecessor, 
 while enhancing the sense that you're just one soldier in the midst of a massive war machine. It 
 doesn't really break any new ground, but the game nails the core aspects of first-person-shooter 
 gameplay so well that it doesn't need to. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: FlankerDFMax
Rating: 9.3
Date: Dec 21, 2005 10:26 am PT
Review:  COD 2 had a tough act in COD to follow, but it's done so very well, unlike several other recent 
 high profile FPS sequels. Yea it's still scripted, but the scripts are well written and the action 
 is more intense than ever. The developers have equipped you with very liberal health to get through 
 all those fierce fire fights, though to me; they've gone too far with that feature. The weapons 
 are on the weak side for someone lwho prefers his shooters biased towards "simulation" rather than 
 the arcade style of play in the COD series. The enemy AI has been improved, with more realistic 
 behavior and tactics; though your team mates will frequently be the door blocking AI idiots we've 
 all come to hate, LOL! Improved graphics and sound along with a somewhat less linear mission sequence 
 have been thrown into the COD 2 mix to very good effect............ did I mention the excellent 
 music of the soundtrack? All I need is a quality mod that steps up the damage modeling of the weapons 
 and COD 2 will be spot on for me. MP continues to be a fierce "in your face" experience and is 
 a total blast! COD 2 is well worth your gaming dollar, if you haven't bought a copy already! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Killswitch127
Rating: 7.1
Date: Dec 21, 2005 12:27 am PT
Review:  Well this game is really good. But its really quite short. This game wuold only take you about 
 6 to 7 hours nonstop to get through the game. The graphics are great but the AI isn't all quite 
 there. The best game for AI i've played so far is FEAR, and it has the best graphics combined with 
 horror. The bad thing about this is your men would sometimes get inthe way and you would accidentally 
 shoot them in the back. WOOPS. So your own soldiers aren't quite smart and need to go back to basic 
 training. But its a good game and I recommend this game. But on the multiplayerside is alittle 
 shaky. I have to toss it up with battlefield 2. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rabbixp
Rating: 8.7
Date: Dec 21, 2005 12:25 am PT
Review:  Call of Duty 2 lets you experience four individual soldier stories as they overcome insurmountable 
 odds in multiple campaigns. Players have the freedom to follow each of the four storylines through 
 for the ultimate character-driven experience, or they can engage in the historic battles chronologically 
 for quick hitting action. Infinity Ward has also expanded the scope of combat to deliver a truly 
 realistic battlefield experience. Squads now have the freedom to take on a variety of mission objectives, 
 on expansive battlefields that allow for multiple paths and the ability to utilize actual combat 
 tactics like outflanking and fire and maneuver capabilities. Call of Duty 2's new engine and A. I. 
 technology set the stage for authentic squad combat and astonishing action. Concealment can be 
 key as battlefield smoke or even deployed smoke grenades cloud visibility. Weather effects such 
 as the dusty sandstorms of North Africa and whiteout blizzard conditions of Russia, for example, 
 will keep soldiers glued to their bunkers. PLAY and ENJOY! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: doctordro
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 20, 2005 11:04 pm PT
Review:  Never, and I mean, never will you experience this from any WW2 shooter out there. COD2 has done 
 it again, still retaining what the first COD has. Graphics are mind-blowingly vast and incredibly 
 detailed. Doesn't make you regurgitate your lunch unlike other FPS out there. It's like watching 
 a movie but you are part of it, and you play the lead role. Physics are great, and the AI responds 
 quite well. Facial gestures from rival soldiers look real, especially when they butt you in the 
 head with their rifle. Sometimes, you also tend to respond to whatever your fellow soldiers tell 
 you to do (You may contradict, but let someone- like a friend or sibling- observe you while playing. 
 You'll be surprised.) . There are absolutely lots of cool scenes in the game, and the game will 
 never feel linear (Even though it really is.) . Sitting there won't help, go out there and buy this 
 one. My "Game of the Year for 2006"! GAMESPOT, you're unfair! It deserves at least 9.3! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: drakos
Rating: 9.4
Date: Dec 20, 2005 3:59 pm PT
Review:  Call of Duty 2 should be regarded as the best WWII shooter for the PC. You feel captivated by your 
 environment and truly feel right in the middle of the action. The graphics are very well done with 
 a feel of a smokey ambience through the game. There could have been more texture and lighting effects 
 to give it more of a realistic feel though. The sound is definately the best part of the game. 
 The musical composition is theatrical in quality. Sound effects are extremely life like with a 
 great enviromental presence. Especially most enjoyed on 3D sound cards. The feeling of spaciousness 
 and echos of warfare are done like no other. The gameplay is great except for the fact that you 
 have to follow a very specific sequence to progress in the single player game. This is done by 
 completing objectives in a progressive manner. There should be more freedom of movement on the 
 map. The ai is quite good where npcs go for cover when fired upon. The graphics are smooth, and 
 not a super hardware hog like some other fps's out there. This game should be able to be run at 
 the min specs without a problem. I tried it at home with a dual core AMD X2-4400 cpu and a 7800GTX 
 256mb video card, vs my work computer running a P4 2.2ghz and a Geforce 6600 128mb video card. 
 The work computer held its own and ran suprisingly smooth. This is great for those of you who want 
 to play a new state of the art game without buying a state of the art computer. The multiplayer 
 is good, as to be expected. It plays somewhat simular to the MOH series. All in all, this is a 
 fantastic game. For those of you who want the feel of raw WWII battle, COD2 delivers like no other. 
 Highly recommended. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: The_Anguish
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 20, 2005 2:42 pm PT
Review:  
  well personally i think this game is best by far this year scew Bet on a soilder and battlefield 
 2 this it the best FPS game this year and no one can take this away from activision it rules has 
 probaly the best grapihcs i've seen in a FPS deffinetly the best gameplay the sounds though i have 
 to say were too much liek CoD 1 to be honist though some new ones were thrown in as well so i give 
 them a 10 the value i would go for this game no matter the price and my tilt yes it is 10 and yes 
 so is everything i this is my first perfect review and i'm proud that it goes to Call Of Duty 2 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Zorbtek
Rating: 7.3
Date: Dec 20, 2005 2:18 am PT
Review:  With Call of Duty 2 available, you can probably expect future Medal of Honor games to be different 
 from what you are used to.
  
  Call of Duty 2 is a good game. But there is more that could have been done with it. First of all, 
 the enviorments are pretty BLEH, and some levels can be repetitive - sometimes different levels 
 would take place at the same area, just different mission objectives. Sure, this adds to the feeling 
 of being in a real war, where you're not just blowing your way from one location to the next, but 
 if the game was longer with some story elements and cutscenes, something WW2 shooters really need 
 someday - the game would be amazing.
  
  The graphics are great when up all the way. But chances are your computer is gonna get choppy. 
 Even with a high-end computer. Even when the graphics are done all the way, they still seem decent 
 enough to enjoy. Really, if your computer just cant handle much of anything, it might be able to 
 take on COD2.
  
  The multiplayer is fun, you'll probably end up having more fun playing online than the games Single 
 Player Campaign.
  
  This game is not for everyone however. If in your mind you are thinking "ohh god another WW2 shooter", 
 that's what this is. Another WW2 shooter, so you might not want to look into this. However, it's 
 the Best WW2 shooters to date, alongside many other great Military shooters.
  
  Shooting your weapon is just oddly fun. It just feels so right to be looking through the scope 
 and pounding bullets into people.
  
  Overal, I did have my fun with this game, but it really doesnt offer anything NEW which is dissapointing. 
 It's the same old stuff, but it's the same old stuff of the good stuff. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SaMuRaI_Slice
Rating: 9.1
Date: Dec 19, 2005 5:20 pm PT
Review:  I picked up Call of Duty 2 because I wasn't able to get a 360, so I decided to give it a shot. 
 I first downloaded the demo, when I found out that it acutally worked on my computer I was excited, 
 it ment I could buy it. Which I did, it's money well spent. I'm going to say this right now, if 
 you like FPS, you'll love CoD2, anything complaints i'm saying are basically the only things keeping 
 this game from perfection. It's no reason not to buy the game. So let's get started first with 
 the graphics.
  
  They're awesome! Character models, explosions, bullets, destroying the enviroment, it all looks 
 great even fro 800x600 resolution and meduim on all settings. The only complaint I have is that 
 at times if you kill a solider, their mouths will continue to move, as if they were saying something, 
 but they don't say anything. But it's not like that's a main priorty for a game. Another part is 
 how most of the levels look like they were drawn in within seconds (The ground that is, the buildings 
 all look nice) they have straight lines everywhere and in later levels the rubble looks repeated 
 a lot. But then again they had that in previous FPSs, I just expected a little more.
  
  As for the sound, when I saw the Gamespot review with sound being 10, I could only this of "psh 
 it's an FPS, what great soundtrack is there? People yelling? Whoopee?". But it's not just the yelling, 
 the guns, the music at the end of dramatic levels, the voice actors for "main" characters. They're 
 all great, the yelling just makes it even better. It really give it a sense of war to it, although 
 you seem to tune out the yelling later in the game, it's awesome the first time hearing your squad 
 yelling out where grenades are or enemies are. And it's not random, they acutally tell you where 
 things are using locations like "broken wall", "telephone pole", or "behind barrels". 
  
  On the note of voice actors, I can't help but mention the best FPS characters in the world, MacGregor, 
 Davis, and their captain (I can't remeber name currently) . These guys are like your goofy friends, 
 in the british campigns you take on the role of Davis and he doesn't talk, but that's expected. 
 The relationship and conversations that go on between Macgregor and the Captain are just hilarous, 
 I'd buy this game (If it was 20 dollars) just to hear them talk in those levels. Apparently the 
 makers knew this was their strong point, since you'll be playing the british campign for most of 
 the time.
  
  Onto the levels, as mentioned the british will be most played. You'll start in the desert, but 
 as you contiune missions inbetween you'll have 2 american missions, but then go back to the british. 
 Except instead of the desert your in france and germany. The other roles is american and russian, 
 russian is the starter levles (The training level being the funniest, and funest) neither of the 
 other two are that pleasent, the american ones seem sort of boring (except for the last two) and 
 the russain ones will make you never want to see snow again. 
  
  As for the multiplayer, I can only sigh when I think about it. It's very... disappointing. I expected 
 fast, cover using, pace battles. Instead I get a crazy mob game where everyone is jsut spraying 
 at each other. It's not like what the game tries to get you to do which is take your time and flank. 
 With this, no one really has voice chat, and there's only mindless running around and shooting 
 people. But the single player will still keep you busy with it's 4 difficulties. If you like FPS, 
 or War Related games, then get this game. It's a blast, and I'll still be playing it for a while. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GrimGravy
Rating: 9.3
Date: Dec 19, 2005 2:51 pm PT
Review:  While playing COD2 i coulden't help but to be amazed as how nice this game really looks. It is 
 one of the first games to give my PC a serious run for it money. Also the game is so soaked in 
 atmosphere and depth i don't see how any WW2 game can even touch it. In the end if you like WW2 
 shooters then pick this game up, it was very awsome. It in my opinion beats MOH in every way. Also 
 the multiplayer is very addictive and fun. The ability to use smoke grenades was a very cool touch. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: joecavazos88
Rating: 9.3
Date: Dec 19, 2005 3:27 am PT
Review:  Call of duty is the sequel to the 2003 game of the year 2005. to start off call of duty has gotten 
 a tremendous facelift in terms of graphics. The new engine sports some visuals that are similar 
 to that of fear. The graphics really show off the creativity of infinity ward but i think that 
 the real jewel of the game is the sound. The sound of the game is amazing, from bullets wizzing 
 past you to german soldiers yelling granade, or flnk the enemy. This is defenitly one of the strong 
 points. The gameplay itself is very good. The controls havn't changed much except for the newly 
 implemented grenade key and smoke grenade key. The game manages to stay challlenging but never 
 frustrating. Overall Call of duty 2 is a great contribution to the next gen PC library and is definitly 
 worth buying. If you own the Xbox 360 version I feel sorry for you because this will freeze online 
 and the lag is tremendously bad. Thats why PC OWNS!!!! YEAH BOY!!!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: girufool
Rating: 9.3
Date: Dec 18, 2005 3:51 pm PT
Review:  Well i tried the game from friend and it was okay but the only thing is it felt like call of duty 
 1 but with better graphics, and different weapons. The other bad thing is this thing eats RAM!. 
 It say 1g recommended but it was skipping like hell on my comp. So i went out bought another G 
 of ram ( now i have 2 g) It didn't skip after that. But it also doesn't help if you have AGP x8. 
 So if you want this game then Get , Pci express, and 2G's of ram IF you want top performance. Also 
 i think the other thing that made this game great is the amazing multilayer. I swear i stayed up 
 until 2 A. M playing COD 2 on-line.
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: SZeroC
Rating: 9.4
Date: Dec 18, 2005 11:38 am PT
Review:  know there are some of you out there who are so sick of World War II-based FPS games that you're 
 just reading this to see how bad I think Call of Duty 2 is. And in my reviews from the first Call 
 of Duty to the expansion pack, I said that something needed to truly change in this sub-genre if 
 developers want to keep selling WWII games. What I didn't expect is for the guys at Infinity Ward 
 to do exactly that. Call of Duty 2 takes all the stuff that made the first game unique and then 
 built a dozen extremely entertaining yet challenging missions around it.
  
  If you haven't played the first Call of Duty yet, I'll sum it up for you: it's a mix of action-oriented 
 yet squad-based combat in the European theater of World War II. You play in three campaigns as 
 separate soldiers on the Allied side of the war. But the biggest thing is that each of these soldiers 
 comes from a different country - the USA, England, and Russia. And if I were to sum up the sequel, 
 it'd be the exact same thing, but this time around, the people at Infinity Ward have truly shown 
 themselves to be masters of pacing, suspense, and visceral action. It's all delivered in a tight, 
 excellently crafted package that will blow you away.
  
  In fact, the first mission is probably my favorite of them all, even if it's by just a hair. You 
 start out as a Russian grunt going through a crash-course on being a soldier. Since you were literally 
 drafted a couple of days previously, today might not be the best time for you to see combat, but 
 too bad. After a quick training session, you're thrown right into battle in the defense of Moscow. 
 Shortly afterwards, the Germans make a huge push, which you and your piddly band of teenaged soldiers 
 will have to defend against. The game does a great job of showing that determination, and not any 
 kind of real training, was the only thing keeping the Russian soldiers standing. The Germans' final 
 charge, and your subsequent counterattack after you repel them, is absolutely beautiful. And what 
 you do afterwards - well - it's good enough that I don't want to spoil it.
  
  Call of Duty already covered the defense of Stalingrad, but the sequel puts you in the shoes of 
 a different guy doing very different things during that battle. You'll go more on the offensive 
 against troops that are more mobile and definitely smarter than seen in most WWII games. In fact, 
 while there are quite a few situations in CoD2 that will have you defending against massive numbers, 
 you'll still be fighting against some of the most intelligent yet fun-to-fight enemies that I've 
 seen yet. Yes, they'll flank you, go for cover, charge, and do all the stuff that you've come to 
 expect out of a game like this. But the game uses moderation and keeps you entertained, allowing 
 you go to a little Rambo now and then just for fun.
  
  This point can't really be skipped over, either - this is the most actual fun I've had in a WWII 
 shooter since, well, ever. While some of those elements seen in the more realistic Brothers in 
 Arms games (like suppressing the enemy troops before charging them, or sneaky flanks) are included, 
 they're not absolutely necessary to win. You can choose how you want to do a fight, and your own 
 aim isn't made by the game to be so bad that you constantly have to rely on your squadmates to 
 win every single fight. There are still plenty of battles you can win on your own, as long as you 
 are aware of enemy movements and plan accordingly. You'll also need some great aim, and unlike 
 Brothers in Arms, your rifle won't wave around everywhere. Less realistic? Sure. More fun? Definitely.
 
  
  A new gameplay element added to Call of Duty 2 is a health system that is almost like what we saw 
 in Halo 2 - if you get hurt, just get to cover for a few seconds, and your character will get his 
 breath back and be fully healed for the next fight. It sounds really goofy in a game like this, 
 but this is another trade-off of realism for fun, and I found that it makes for a much more enjoyable 
 game. Instead of health kits lying around everywhere, or your scrambling to instantly heal a gunshot 
 wound, your guy just heals up. And instead of loading your last save every time you get shot a 
 few times, you can stay in-game and keep going.
  
  And that right there's my favorite part - I'm one of those people that quicksaves constantly, and 
 if I get hit a bit too much, I'll load my game. CoD2 keeps me going, and I won't continue to quickload, 
 all thanks to the regenerating health. Sure, if you want that higher realism where you'll get killed 
 in one or two shots, there are the higher difficulty levels you can fiddle with, and grenades will 
 still do you in immediately if you are close enough when they go off.
  
  Speaking of grenades, the other important addition is a "grenade indicator." Now, when enemies 
 throw a grenade, you'll get a little icon near your crosshair that shows when one's close and which 
 direction it's in relative to you. Again, this sounds like the game's been made too easy, but this 
 makes grenades less of an occasional surprise and more of a constant tool that the enemy will use 
 to flush you out of your cover. It changes the way grenades are used by the AI and is something 
 relatively new in first-person shooters.
  
  While these additions do make the game easier, Infinity Ward has countered this by making fights 
 last longer, with more enemies for you to take out. The end result is that there's still plenty 
 of challenge to be had here, even on Normal difficulty, but you'll spend more time thinking about 
 in-game tactics and less on that next health kit or that damned F9 key.
  
  But let's get back to the campaign. After your stint in the frigid winter of Russia, you'll be 
 whisked off to North Africa as an English soldier. You'll be fighting back against the German mastermind 
 Erwin Rommel, you'll turn that campaign around on him, you'll push him East, and then you'll kick 
 him off the continent. In the process of doing this, you'll need to fight in the streets of North 
 African cities, and it's a real change of pace from the Russian campaign. Battles are generally 
 fought in smaller quarters, but there are still plenty of machine gun emplacements to worry about, 
 as well as more enemies on rooftops and in windows to deal with.
  
  There's also a tank mission to play in, where you'll be taking control of a smaller, faster tank 
 than what Rommel's got - the only problem is that he's got a huge range advantage on you. That 
 means a lot of high-speed charges with your tank-driving buddies into battle, and you will need 
 to be nimble and dance between targets to keep the enemy guessing. It's a really fun mission and 
 while it's still difficult, you will get to blow up plenty of enemy armor in the process.
  
  Then you're back in Europe, switching off from the American side of things to the British and 
 back again in the major invasion of France. Of particular note is the American level where you'll 
 need to charge onto the beaches of France (in the famous Pointe du Hoc mission) and scale a vertical 
 rock wall on ropes. The custom-created animations really make this battle work, because as you 
 and your squadmates scale the wall, you'll see people get shot and fall, others tumble to the ground, 
 and more. But it's not over once you get up top: Call of Duty 2 has very large battle areas compared 
 to most WWII shooters, and the battle rages on long after you've scaled the wall. This continuity 
 works very nicely in some missions (especially this one) and I really liked not having to stop 
 to load a new mission every ten minutes.
  
  Let's talk a little about the visuals as well as the game engine. While Call of Duty was still 
 based on the Quake III engine despite most of its code being rewritten, CoD2 uses a brand new engine 
 and takes advantage of some of the newest DirectX 9 technology. You'll see this everywhere, from 
 the uniforms that have the look of real cloth (especially the coats on the Russian soldiers) , to 
 the water, to the brick walls that also seem to have a depth to them you don't usually see. Not 
 only has Infinity Ward outdone themselves with regard to the art, but the animations and new special 
 effects really add to the visual realism. Call of Duty 2 is easily the best-looking WWII game out 
 there.
  
  You probably know what to expect out of sound in a WWII shooter. Yes, you'll get to hear plenty 
 of gunfire in the foreground and lots of explosions and gunfire as ambient sound. But this time, 
 you're also going to hear much more in the way of troops talking. Both Germans and your own guys 
 will talk about enemy movement and positions, and you'll need to listen to both if you really want 
 the drop on the enemy. I don't know how to speak German, but I can hear where their speech is coming 
 from, and that gives me clues as to where to expect their fire to come from.
  
  Another important aspect of Call of Duty was its great use of music at just the right times to 
 add that bit of emotion to a major offensive or a desperate defense. CoD2 pulls this off as well. 
 Half the time, I didn't even realize the music was playing, yet I was feeling its contribution 
 to the situation. You know a game's music is great when it has an affect on you even though you 
 don't even notice it.
  
  Even after the game's somewhat-short but highly fulfilling campaign is over, you still have multiplayer 
 to look forward to. The usual Deathmatch, Team DM, and CTF modes are included, and a new mode called 
 Headquarters is also there. This mode has both sides trying to establish a base, or Headquarters, 
 while the other side has to try and destroy it and then set up their own HQ. It's a great mode 
 because it forces players to come together to fight larger battles and focus on one key area at 
 a time.
  
  CoD2 includes thirteen multiplayer maps (four of which are old favorites from the first game) , 
 and they support for up to 32 players. Voice chat is supported in-game, and sounds quite a bit 
 like what you'd hear from the Counter-Strike games - the quality isn't incredible, but it's certainly 
 usable. The actual online play I tried was smooth, lag-free, and the weapons felt just right. While 
 CoD2's multiplayer won't be replacing something like Battlefield 2 any time soon, I still think 
 it's worth a good couple of weeks of play before you shelve the game.
  
  Despite my reluctance to go through yet another WWII game, Call of Duty 2 really showed me that 
 there's still plenty of stories to be told, new gameplay to be experienced, and great fun to be 
 had left in this genre. The AI is better than ever, and the action is the perfect mix of tactics 
 and full-on gunfights - and the regenerating health system means I have to worry less about how 
 much health I have left and more about how to take out the overwhelming numbers of Germans. Combine 
 this with solid multiplayer modes and a near-perfect sense of pacing and style, and we have a definite 
 winner in Call of Duty 2. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dvgeoster
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 18, 2005 4:51 am PT
Review:  Call of Duty managed to shake the WWII fps genre because it has fun missions (but they were hard) 
 great sounds and you always felt alone so it was a case of: you win WAR WON, you lose WAR LOST. 
 But in Call of Duty 2. They kept the excellent sounds (and added other people shouting at you to 
 do something) , they even kept the looks and game play BUT they made you feel a part of a bigger 
 job. They did this by adding more men to your side from snipers to sub-machine gunners. The Game 
 seems to follow on from COD and from the last mission as a member of the Russian army and you spend 
 your time in loads of snow and ice. In One early mission you get to blow up a building and that 
 really does look cool. Then you move on to be British (mainly in a desert) . Then you become American 
 and come to Europe and as you all expect you fight on a beach with loads of guns firing down at 
 you... Well, no instead you have to try climbing up a cliff, with loads of guns firing down at 
 you. A minor warning unless you find you have skill and time, stick to easy difficultly because 
 it adds much more time to the game if you play realistic, hard, ect. Also listen because people 
 will shout out some funny or helpful things. All in all COD2 no new bound broken but very fun and 
 more difficult also very addictive. I managed to get it for 20 so I give it top value marks. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bulldozer316
Rating: 9.1
Date: Dec 17, 2005 10:42 pm PT
Review:  the game that we all dream about... the game that we all wishes... the game of the year maybe the 
 next year too... Call of Duty 2 is the dream... its great... its fantastic... its realistic... and the 
 most of all its fun... I live in Lebanon so our CDs are copy... they r so ... so.... so cheap....1 
 CD... some stores its 1 $ ... some stores its 2 $ .... a DVD .... about....3 to 4 $.... i bought it 
 as a DVD....3 $.... but its awesome great .... fantastic.... extreme action... i'm sorry for u ... u 
 wait intiil u get the mony to buy a game but in our country we can buy 10 games in 1 time... I bought 
 : call of duty 2.... NFS MW.... a collection DVD ( all age of empires version + rise of nations and 
 its exp. pa.+ athor age games ) and the Movies.... prince of persia ttt.... peter jackson's King 
 Kong but its sucks.... a game called Soldiers... in 1 time 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thatoneguydude
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 17, 2005 6:46 pm PT
Review:  indeed very good game.... penis now i have to have 100 hundered words  
 m m m m mm m m m mm m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m mm m m m m m m m m m m m m m 
 m m m mm m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m mm m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m k k k k 
 k k k k k k k kk k k k k kk k k k kk k k k kk k k k k k k k k k kk k k k k k k k k k kk k k k kkk 
 k k k k k k k k k k k k k kk k kk k k k k k k k k k k k k k k k k k k k k k k k k k k k k k k k 
 k k k a a a a a a a a aa a a a a a a aa a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a 
 a a a a a a a a aa a a a a a a a a a a a a a a ama a a a aa aa aa a aa a a a a a a a a a y y y 
 y yy y y y y y yy y y y y y yy y y yy y y y y y y y y y yy yy y y yy y y y y y y y y y y yy y y 
 y y y y y y y y y y y y y y yu y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y 
::::::

::::::
UserName: authun
Rating: 9.1
Date: Dec 17, 2005 1:14 pm PT
Review:  Well, what can I say about this game. 'Call of Duty 2' is a fantastic game, but be careful it is 
 the most highly addictive game you will ever play. When I started playing it I didn't want to put 
 it down. although I was disappointed when I completed it because I wanted to keep playing it more, 
 its not the same when you play it the second time round. If you have played the first 'Call of 
 Duty' you will love this game. I would recommend this game to anyone. I am looking forward to playing 
 'Call of Duty: The Big Red One' as I know that it is a completely different game. So people go 
 out and buy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gaudreault1978
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 16, 2005 9:10 pm PT
Review:  le meilleur jeu de guerre jusqu'a present!!! j'en ai essay plusieurs dont brothers in arms: road 
 to hill 30, qui n'est pas mauvais sauf que la facon de bouger la souris n'est pas tres bonne a ct 
 de COD2, les graphiques sont superbes, quand ya de la fume c'est bien fait, les personnages sont 
 tres bien faits, on le vois bien dans son visage, les armes sont encore mieux faites que dans le 
 premier jeu, encore plus maniables, plus realistes, plus nombreux, ya bcp plus de monde qui joue dans 
 le 2eme que dans le 1er jeu je trouve. le je me repete c'est le meilleur jeu de guerre qui a t 
 fait jusqu'a maintenant!! en tout cas si y'a du monde qui le trouve mauvais bien y'ont juste a 
 souvrir les yeux!!:) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: peter_rafterman
Rating: 7.4
Date: Dec 16, 2005 9:06 pm PT
Review:  I do realise that most First Person Shooters are unrealistic, but at least in the other FPS games 
 the guns and the health systems were realistic and highly detailed. For instance, in Call of Duty 
 2, for some reason the Enfield is short and stubby, the end of the Thompson is as skinny as the 
 average anorexic model, and sometimes you pull the action on the SMG's when reloading, and sometimes 
 you don't. However my main problem with this game is the health system, it's ridiculous. I mean, 
 at least having HP is somewhat realistic, but this business of "When you get shot enough your vision 
 will go red and then you have to go hide behind a tree for 5 seconds and you'll be live and kicking 
 again" *take deep breath* is ridiculous. However, the games graphics are beautiful, doesn't require 
 the latest system to run; 256mb *complements to the developer*. And is a lot of fun fighting along 
 side fellow Poms, Yanks and errr.... Russians. In other words there is no One-Man-Army feel to it 
 *cough MOHAA cough*. I don't agree with the idea that you can carry around a heavy weight (well 
 not in this game!) Enfield, and also carry around a Thompson, along with a pistol, smokers and 
 Hand Grenades and the backpack with god knows what inside. That's one strong pom! In conclusion, 
 this game is a lot of fun, it may offend some war veterans with the health system (and then it 
 tries to make it all sappy with the quotes when you die) , it's quite unrealistic when it's the 
 type of game that should be realistic, the graphics are pretty and there are some memorable moments. 
 If one loves World War II FPS then go out and buy it, but if you don't...... don't. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fishdalf
Rating: 9.1
Date: Dec 16, 2005 7:53 pm PT
Review:  How do you top one of the most succesful shooters of all time?, by essenitally doing the exact 
 same thing's for the sequel it would seem. I know many of you will be tired of World War 2 shooters 
 by now, the same stuff recycled over and over again with a unique gimmick thrown in for good measure. 
 Apparently nobody let the developers of Call of Duty 2 know about this so they went and made the 
 game anyway. All i can say is thankgod they did, this game is bigger, better and a hell of a lot 
 more epic in it's approach. One chaotic battle after the next with very little breathing time inbetween, 
 it probably has as many cinematic moments as your favourite World War 2 movie and at the same time 
 offers enough openness and variety to play through again and again.
  
  This game follows the same gaming structure laid out in the first game, three seperate campaigns 
 for the British, American and Russian military. You play as one of three soldiers with a cool sounding 
 name and a minimal backstory that is somewhat interesting and completely irrelevant. A trivial 
 fact because this game is all about the action on a much larger scale, it is about fighting for 
 your team no matter what the odds and this gives you a much greater sense that you're actually 
 acheiving something rather than completing a level in a game. The levels still follow their familiar 
 progression from task A to task B but this time around you're not limited to one street or one 
 alleyway in order to reach your next objective. The levels open up and offer multiple ways to kill 
 your enemy, whether it be a shoot and run stratagem or a tactical crawl to find the perfect sniping 
 angle. I feel this breaks up the cinematic portions very nicely and distracts you from the overall 
 objective of finishing the level and embarking upon the next. This time around you have some freedom 
 in what mission you want to play next, after playing through the first Russian mission you will 
 notice the first British mission becomes available. Unfortunately you won't unlock the American 
 missions until a little later in the game but this is just as well because they are a little tougher 
 in comparison.
  
  The objectives found within each mission while not wholey original do offer plenty of entertainment, 
 you will clear buildings and hold positions until reinforcements arrive just at the right time 
 coincidentally. These missions are somewhat reminiscent of those found in the original, there's 
 even a car chasing sequence that plays every bit as good as the first time you played it in the 
 last game. Lets be honest though, how many plausibly 'unique missions' are there going to be in 
 a World War 2 shooter without the gamer thinking the developers are ever so slightly insane.
  
  This would not be Call of Duty without the big epic battle scenes and to no great surprise 
 this game has them in abundance. A mission never goes by without you finding yourself up against 
 immeasurable odds or blowing some huge building full of German troops up because it just felt right 
 at the time. Perhaps the most memorable instance is the battle of Pointe Du Hoc which is yet another 
 D-Day mission, this time you scale the cliffs as oppose to storming the beach and in my opinion 
 makes for a much better gaming experience.
  
  One of the newest features to Call of Duty 2 is the health system which abandons health kits and 
 armour upgrades for a much simpler system. If you get caught in heavy fire or shot frequently your 
 screen will turn red as if blood were splattered across the screen and if shot once or twice more 
 you will die. Finding cover pretty shrapish will then allow you to replenish health automatically 
 and continue with the battle as if nothing happened. "Unrealistic!" i hear you cry and i agree 
 with you, i also believe walking around finding health kits is just as unrealistic. At least this 
 way the fight flows a lot smoother without the constant hassle of dodging fire and running for 
 the nearest health pack.
  
  The combat system is as solid as it was in the original, you will find that aiming down the sights 
 of your weapons is a lot more effective than running at an enemy all guns blazing. This can occasionally 
 take the wind out of the sales of battle but it works for the most part and is a lot less of an 
 issue with the multiplayer side of the game. The multiplayer while not totally ground-breaking 
 does it's job nicely, there are obvious elements borrowed from other shooters of it's generation 
 but it manipulates them in it's own unique ways. There are a whole host of modes for you to choose 
 from when taking this game online: deathmatch, team deathmatch, capture the flag, search and destroy 
 and headquarters (a remake of the official mod) are all included here and will not disappoint because 
 such varied tactics are required for each. You will be happy to hear some of the better maps are 
 back too, Activision have obviously taken note of the hoardes of emails from pleading fans. The 
 awesome 'killcam' makes it's return too, showing you the last few moments of life before you get 
 sprayed with bullets or shot in the head through the eyes of your killer. 
  
  You will find the computer AI varies in this game, sometimes you will be playing the game and thinking 
 to yourself "wow that was pretty smart of him" as you watch your team-mate kill enemies in a way 
 you will probably steal and use for yourself. Then other times they are just there for cannon fodder 
 and it does take away some of the realism the game works so hard to immerse you in.
  
  The new graphics engine employed by Activision works really well overall, the game just looks and 
 feels more realistic than the original as a result of it. It may not be the most realistic looking 
 game on the market but the atmosphere it creates and the way it brings your allies and your enemies 
 to life is pretty impressive, with it's large outdoor enviroments, impressive model animations 
 and cool smoke effects that add a graphical and tactical advantages on the battlefield. The game 
 also implements a "shellshock" effect that puts everything into slow motion if you are in the vacinity 
 of a heavy blast, again this is just one of the small thing's that adds to the overall realism 
 of the game. That's if you have a good enough machine to run it of course, if your machine is more 
 than a couple of years old you will need to break into your bank balance and upgrade.
  
  Perhaps the best part of this whole game is the way the sound is used to add to the gameplay. Not 
 only do you have all the amazing sound effects of bullets flying past your ears as you play through 
 levels, you also have your squad talking to you as if you were actually there. They tell you where 
 enemies are, they help each other out, they shout and scream and let off the occasional war cry 
 just like you would expect from soldiers in war and it is a treat to hear. It doesn't matter if 
 you're playing through headphones or have the whole surround sound thing going on in your house, 
 everyone will enjoy the 1000's of lines of dialogue the soldiers around you shout out as you play. 
 The soundtrack isn't half bad either and consists of some pretty rousing tunes to get you in the 
 mood for battle and as you stand on the field of victory the score rises to a truly swelling finale.
 
  
  This game could have easily felt like a stale remake of an out-of-date shooter, after all the game 
 doesn't stray too far from it's roots. It does however bring you more of the same in a much more 
 immersive and atmospheric way, the length of the single-player campaign is pretty much the same 
 but the missions have a lot more replayability. All-in-all this is a been there, done that and 
 want to experience it all over again with a lot more oomph type of game, which has put Call of 
 Duty back at the top of the pile where it belongs.
  
  Gameplay - More of what made the original game so popular, a sprinkle of new features adds to the 
 overall gameplay
  
  Graphics - Creates an atmosphere and a sense of immersion that will rival any game out there
 
  
  Sound - Some of the best sound on a shooting game to date, adds some new audio elements that improve 
 gameplay considerably
  
  Value - Missions have tonnes of replayability and the online multiplayer will keep you going just 
 as long as the original 
::::::

::::::
UserName: aziansniper
Rating: 9.8
Date: Dec 15, 2005 9:50 pm PT
Review:  Ablsolutely the best graphics ever out of all the games I had ever played. This game will take 
 you back to WWII and you can feel like your actually there. This game will make you keep playing!!! 
 One of the best made games ever!!! Why buy a new console for about $400 dollar? Just get a good 
 processor and a really good graphic card like 256mb for $200 or $250 and you won't regret it. There's 
 no point in getting a new game console when you have a great PC. You'll have more fun out of PC 
 then game consoles. Plus you can do way more things than just play games on PC. You can do about 
 anything you want with a PC. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ska28
Rating: 9.4
Date: Dec 15, 2005 8:15 am PT
Review:  I love this game with a passion. Everytime i start it up i get that tingly feeling on the inside. 
 This game has what ive always wanted in a war title. Great sound. Constant action. Big explosions 
 and constant battling. a hit for year to come. I would suggest all poeple with a computer that 
 can habdle it to purchase COD:2 unless you haev teh almighty xbox 360. then your set no matter 
 what. I love this game with a passion. Everytime i start it up i get that tingly feeling on the 
 inside. This game has what ive always wanted in a war title. Great sound. Constant action. Big 
 explosions and constant battling. a hit for year to come. I would suggest all poeple with a computer 
 that can habdle it to purchase COD:2 unless you haev teh almighty xbox 360. then your set no matter 
 what. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lokesc
Rating: 8.7
Date: Dec 15, 2005 3:26 am PT
Review:  Some games are slow paced, some are rather boring but Call of Duty 2 (COD2) is very intense. ,.. I 
 mean very intense. Sometimes the audio was so good that even an easy looking task can be utterly 
 mind blowing hard. The soundtrack, music, effects sound are superb. 
  
  Graphically, COD2 looks very sharp and detail. You might need to juice up your hardware for an 
 average PC. Loading times can be rather slow too. The smoke effect looks quite good. The thing 
 which I'm not that satisfied is that despite in a war torn zone, the environments are still not 
 breakable or interactive enough when shot or fired at. Imagine throwing a grenade or shooting a 
 bazooka at a building. The impact leaves only a textured black mark. Let's hope there will be a 
 lot of carnage in later series of COD.
  
  Well Black is coming out later with this idea, I guess we will see some stuff next year. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cbigbie191
Rating: 9.3
Date: Dec 14, 2005 7:07 pm PT
Review:  Who needs a next gen console when you can run COD on an average pc and it will look almost as good. 
 Run it on a nice PC and you are superior to the new consoles. Long live the pc gamers!!! Run the 
 game on at least a geforce 6600 series card and it will look spectacular, I run it on a 6800gt 
 and it is awesome with no frame rate issues. There is a new driver from nvidia that optimizes there 
 cards for this game, visit www. nvidia. com to get it. This game is a blast, online multiplayer is 
 challenging, you will die alot, and you will frag alot. If you liked COD1 then this is a must play. 
 I recommend it highly. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mister-miyagi
Rating: 9.1
Date: Dec 14, 2005 3:48 pm PT
Review:  call of duty 2
  
  this game is flat-out awesome. the graphics are great and the A. I. is 
  relentless, by far the best A. I. i've ever seen in a FPS. the sound. sound was the most incredible 
 part of the game. when you pump up the volume on your speakers, gunshots are deafening and explosions 
 are hair-raising.
  the only negative that i found in this game is that the health system is a bit 
  unrealistic. 
 you can get shot too many times before dying in a single mission. but if you get pelted with bullets 
 and dont find cover.... yuor history.
  i recommend this game to anyone who likes a FPS. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: sviken
Rating: 6
Date: Dec 14, 2005 11:39 am PT
Review:  After finally getting Call of Duty 2, i booted the game, excited to see if it lived up to the standards 
 of the original. The routine training mission went well, and actually became quite fun at the end, 
 for a training mission that is!
  
  The Soviet campaign is fun, and you'll probably recognize parts of it from the original, like the 
 town hall in St. Petersburg, and the gameplay is gtruly great! The time is flying by as nazi after 
 nazi get's it.
  
  After the great snowy campaign of the commies, the british awaits your steady aim. The desert maps 
 aren't as good as the soviet campaign's maps, but they're still good. But here comes the problem, 
 and what a problem it is: when the first desert level is completed, the game bugs and shows one 
 of the objectives as not completed, although it's as completed as can be (0 flak crews remaining) . 
 i know i'm not the only one with this problem, as i've checked different forums. Even after 3 retries 
 and running back and forth through the level 5 times, the problem still persists. no hidden nazis 
 or anything. this is a major bug, and ruins the experience. It's impossible to continue to the 
 next level. The bug ruins the game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sj214
Rating: 9.2
Date: Dec 14, 2005 10:47 am PT
Review:  Picture this all you perfectionists out there, THE FACES ARENT DONE WELL ONCE AGAIN. The perfect 
 game this time, finally every aspect is fixed, real live people feel of the game. BUT THEIR FACES 
 OMG ARE SO HORRIBLE. I am a face person when it comes to detail in a video game, so when i saw 
 their faces i was once again annoyed. Such a perfect game and yet you through away the basics, 
 just do the faces right and I might actually by the game instead of watch others play it.
  
  
  a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a 
::::::

::::::
UserName: delta1238
Rating: 9.7
Date: Dec 14, 2005 9:30 am PT
Review:  first off, its an game about the second world war.
  you play in several countries, city's and battles.
  
  well, it has incredible realism!
  shooting 
 a tank with an smg or rifle is total suicide, and using a bazooka against infantry is a waste of 
 ammo. you can carry up to 2 weapons at a time, and you have the ability of taking guns from dead 
 enemy's or allies.
  
  you have 3 chapters for the russians and the amerikans each, and 4 chapters for the britisch. each 
 chapter has 3 levels. so that makes 9 levels amerikans and russians each, and 12 levels for the 
 britisch. that makes 30 levels.
  
  there is no health bar, instead, if you get shot the screen gets red at the borders and you hear 
 your soldier suffering. if you get 2,3 more bullets when you have a red screen, say hello to the 
 loading screen!
  
  you will be playing in stalingrad, moscow, el alamein, caen and many others! there is no real "boss". 
 perhaps the occasional panzer or tiger but, thats it.
  
  there are no tanks in multiplayer, and no bazookas. you will hear germans curse over times and 
 there will be a joke left and right. like a teddy bear sitting on a bed or a trooper saying "bazooka? 
 i tought Tom had the bazooka!" in front of a tiger tank.
  
  there is incredibly realistic smoke when a tank shoots and if you (or your team mates) are hiding 
 inside a house a tank could rip the walls apart!
  
  there are FEW missions where you play in a tank. (2 to be exact)
  but there are 2 drawbacks. 
 too much action on-screen can cause lag and in multiplayer, (almost) all the german players have 
 heavy machine guns.
  its not really a "heavy" machine gun but its like the bren or bar.
  
  anyway, its an incredible game and its worth the money!
  playing as a russian private, britisch 
 sergeant or amerikan corporal is much fun.
  
  last note, there is d-day, but its on "pointe - du - hoc" and not omaha beach!
  
  rangers lead 
 the way! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: demonphoenix123
Rating: 9.6
Date: Dec 12, 2005 12:19 pm PT
Review:  good game bad multi player
  
  boo! boo! boo! boo! boo! boo! boo! boo! boo! boo! boo! boo! boo! boo! boo! boo! boo! boo! boo! 
 boo! boo! boo! boo! boo! boo! boo! boo! boo! boo! boo! boo! boo! boo! boo! boo! boo! boo! boo! 
 boo! boo! boo! boo! boo! boo! boo! boo! boo! boo! boo! boo! boo! boo! boo! boo! boo! boo! boo! 
 boo! boo! boo! boo! boo! boo! boo! boo! boo! boo! boo! boo! boo! boo! boo! boo! boo! boo! boo! 
 boo! boo! boo! boo! boo! boo! boo! boo! boo! boo! boo! boo! boo! boo! boo! boo! boo! boo! boo! 
 boo! boo! boo! boo! boo! boo! boo! boo! boo! boo! boo! boo! boo! boo! boo! boo! boo! boo! boo! 
 boo! boo! boo! boo! boo! boo! boo! boo! boo! boo! boo! boo! boo! boo! boo! boo! boo! boo! boo! 
 boo! boo! boo! boo! boo! boo! boo! boo! boo! boo! boo! boo! boo! boo! boo! boo! boo! boo! boo! 
 boo! boo! boo! boo! boo! boo! boo! boo! boo! boo! boo! boo! boo! boo! boo! boo! boo! boo! boo! 
 boo! boo! boo! boo! boo! boo! boo! boo! boo! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spidster0
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 12, 2005 10:08 am PT
Review:  THIS IS SO COOL GAME!!!!!!
  ITS NOT BORING AND VERY FUN!!!
  ITS ABOUT THE SECEND WAR BUT ITS SO COOL
  AND WORTH 2 HAVE IT
  ALLSO THE MULTYPLAYER VERY COOL
 
  I THINK ITS THE BEST FPS GAME THAT EVER EXISTED
  EVRY ONE!! GO AND GETT THAT GAME AS SOON AS YOU CAN....
  YOU ARE LOOSING TIME GO FAST!!
  ITS 
 WORTH EVERY THING!!!!!!!!
  
  THIS IS SO COOL GAME!!!!!!
  ITS NOT BORING AND VERY FUN!!!
  ITS ABOUT THE SECEND WAR BUT ITS SO COOL
  AND WORTH 2 HAVE 
 IT
  ALLSO THE MULTYPLAYER VERY COOL
  I THINK ITS THE BEST FPS GAME THAT EVER EXISTED
  EVRY ONE!! GO AND GETT THAT GAME AS SOON AS YOU CAN....
  YOU ARE LOOSING TIME GO FAST!!
  ITS 
 WORTH EVERY THING 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chiefomnis
Rating: 9.6
Date: Dec 12, 2005 12:42 am PT
Review:  This game is great. They have improved the series, but the greatest inprovment is the sound. If 
 you do not have an EAX enabled card and 5.1 speakers, you are definately missing out on the full 
 experience. The graphics and game play are also improved, but the sound is by far the best improvement. 
 If you played the original Call of Duty , the learning curve is about 5 minutes and you'll be raising 
 hell all over europe. If you are a first timer but have play first person shooters in the past, 
 it'll take you about 20 minutes. The game play is fast and furious. The game does a good job of 
 making you feel like you are truely in the middle of the battle. Out of alll the first person shooters 
 that have come out this year, I can say that this game is hands down the best one. What makes it 
 the best is the fact that it is a complete package. Great graphics, sound, and game play. There 
 have been other great first person shooters this year, but the way all these factors compliment 
 each other in Call of Duty 2 is what puts this game over the top. I can not stop talking about 
 the sound effects in this game. I hope other game makers take notes on how this game truely incorporates 
 EAX to create a true immersive and enjoyable gaming experience. I highly recommend this game to 
 all first person shooter fans and to those who have brushed off FPS games in the past. This game 
 will make you reconsider the genre 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CODRULEZ
Rating: 9.1
Date: Dec 11, 2005 9:25 pm PT
Review:  I use to be a fan of the Medal of Honor series, but the forks at Infinity Ward has created a series 
 that is superior in every way. 
  
  Let's begin with the AI. I have never experienced AI opponents that behaved so similiar to their 
 human counter-parts, it's uncanny. They seek cover when being shot at. They attempt to flank at 
 every reasonable opportunity. They run for cover when grenades land at their feet. Best of all, 
 COD 2 doesn't display what I deem the worst of all bad AI programing; that's when you shoot at 
 a group of AI soldiers and kill one, the rest of the AI soldiers stand around the corpe as though 
 nothing happened.
  
  The graphics are hands down the best I have every seen for a WWII shooter. Unfortunately you have 
 to have a pretty decent rig to run it with all the graphic settings on high.
  
  Gameplay. It's as close to perfect as a title can get without... well being perfect! The controls 
 feel tight and precise. The user can lean left and right, which is very handly when you're concealed 
 but have 20 barrels aim in your general direction. The physics seem about right. You don't incur 
 silly little health damage when you jump down 7-8 feet like in other shooters. The accuracy and 
 the the damage from each gun feel perfect, not like other shooters... cough, cough... BF2. 
  
  You can really tell that Infinity Ward spent just as much time with the sound portion of the 
 game as with the rest of it. You can literally hear the bullets whiz by when being shot at. Often 
 you can figure out the where the enemy is by the noises they create, whether caused by the enemy 
 running through bushes, over foliage, or on cobble stones. 
  
  Multiplayer mode is a gem. The maps are superbly done. Incredibly every map seemed balanced. There 
 are issues though. The first knock occurs in modes where users can respawn; the enemy can camp 
 the opponents spawn point and collect a ton of cheap kills. The second issue occurs on servers 
 that disable smoke grenades. Smoke grenades are great when players have to cross vast-open distances 
 to reach the enemy. Without smoke grenades players tend more to camp and snipe. 
  
  No pun intended but, COD 2 gives you the best 'BANG' for you bucks. No shooter gives you the quality 
 and excellence found in both single and multi-player modes. I dare you to try. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: mankvill
Rating: 9.4
Date: Dec 11, 2005 8:08 pm PT
Review:  First things first, Call of Duty 2 is an excellent game. It may not have broken new ground in the 
 genre of First Person Shooters like the first one did, but CoD2 does the FPS formula so good, it 
 doesn't have to.
  
  The game starts off with one of the best sequences in any game to get you familiarized with the 
 controls. Instead of sending you through a training course like the first one did, you learn how 
 to shoot, move, and throw grenades in the back streets of war-torn Russia, using potatoes as grenades.
 
  
  The game kicks right into the action, starting with the Russian campaign. You go through about 
 9 missions in the Russian campaign, broken up into 3 different segments. This includes hunting 
 down German tanks through the bombed-out buildings, taking a train station and repelling a German 
 counter-attack, and (the best sequence in the game) , sneaking through an oil pipe to get behind 
 the enemy and take them out.
  
  The game then goes to the British campaign which starts you out in El Alamein and battles around 
 it. In the British segment you also get to drive a tank as part of a company. The tank missions 
 are, sadly, too short, but the other British missions make-up for it. You end the British campaign 
 after 3 segments, but come back to it later for one quick segment in Caen, in France.
  
  The last campaign is the American one. In the first game, you parachuted into Normandy the night 
 before D-Day. This time, you start out in an amphibious landing, but it's not Omaha Beach. The 
 American Rangers are tasked with taking out the guns atop Pointe du Hoc that are firing on Omaha 
 Beach, and you have to scale a cliff wall while being fired at to make it to the top. The American 
 campaign takes you through the Normandy country-side, and you'll get into some firefights that 
 look familiar to the game Brothers in Arms, but Call of Duty does it so well, it doesn't like you're 
 playing the same game. You then take control of "Hill 400" and have to survive an intense attack 
 by the germans. The last mission takes you across the Rhine river, into Germany, where you are 
 tasked with taking a town under heavy German occupation.
  
  Every mission in the game is memorable, and very intense. The sound effects are great, especially 
 the ambiance of battles taking place elsewhere. The musical score is some of the best classical/war 
 music in any game.
  
  To sum it all up, if you liked Call of Duty, buy this game. If you like World War 2, buy this game. 
 If you like shooters, buy this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: impurenergy
Rating: 8.8
Date: Dec 11, 2005 5:23 pm PT
Review:  ok same as it ever was
  ytutyuuuuuuuuuuuuutghjgfj try trd ydrt ytdr zfgfb tr rt tryrty hgf htryrfgh fgh ty fg ht hgh t 
 fhhft th tfn yo yo yo yo yo yo yo yo yo yo yo yo yo yo yo yo yo yo yo yo yo yo yo yo yo yo yo yo 
 yo yo yo yo o yo yo yo yo yo yo yo yo yo yo yo yo yo y oy o yo yo yo yo yo yo yo y oy o yo yo yo 
 yo yo yo yo yo yo y oyo yo oy oy oy oy oy oy oyoy o yoy oy oy oy oy 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mikedaman21
Rating: 9.4
Date: Dec 11, 2005 3:12 pm PT
Review:  Call of Duty 2 is an amazing WW2 shooter that gives you an action-packed, frontline war experience. 
 As with most shooters, this works best on the pc and is a blast to play. The dimensions and freedom 
 has vastly improved over its predecessor (which I didn't enjoy) . I like Call of Duty 2 better because 
 there is less trench fighting and more gunning down, up close and personal. The sniping is also 
 good on non-automatic guns. Though the graphics are similiar (though a little better than) MOH: 
 Pacific Assault, they're acceptable and play well on my 3 year old computer. If you like action 
 and/or war games this is your BEST choice. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lew_yates
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 11, 2005 2:29 pm PT
Review:  This game is magnificent
  best game ever created
  play it and play it. When I played call of duty 1 i thought it was just a brilliant game. it was 
 not the best game i ever played but is was a solid game. then came call of duty united offensive 
 which i thought was ever better than the first game but still not the best game i had ever played. 
 1 year later i found out thatt a callof duty 2 was coming out. at first i though it was just united 
 offrnsive. but when i looked at those screenshots they weere amazing. when the first trailer came 
 out i watched it for about 20 times. then the demo came. i was shocked when i saw what the mission 
 was like. i played it for about 10 times. then the second trailer arrived and i was was total shocked 
 when the game came out i got it straight away and the game was pure solid. best i have ever played. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jimbob1949
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 11, 2005 2:00 pm PT
Review:  BEST WAR GAME EVER!!! PWNS This gamme help me when i was really bored and when friends come over 
 it's all we play. My favorite weapon was the panzercheszk you know the thing that replased the 
 panzeroft and bazooka from the last game. The explosions are awsome equally as the the game is. 
 I love all the call of duty games :) The game was pretty hard though. really, really ,really, hard. 
 When Played the demo I knew the real thing was Worth waiting for. I liked war games ever since 
 I played call of duty 1. Call of duty is the game game of all time. *cough* (besides san andreas) 
 *cough* 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lb003g0676
Rating: 8.7
Date: Dec 11, 2005 1:16 pm PT
Review:  I have had Call of Duty 2 (CoD2) virtually since it was released I completed it on 'Hard' twice 
 and am now going to replay through all the missions on easy.
  This game and it's predecessor were created to give the audience a taste of cinematic WWII action 
 like in any good movie, and once again they have achieved fantastically. The missions fill you 
 with aggression, sorrow and many more emotions, it's really difficult to decide whether it's fun 
 to replay the terrible occurrences; or whether it just a historical representation like a documentary. 
 It really does serve it's purpose for both here!
  However, unlike in the previous game, there isn't a sense of loss when a 'comrade' is lost unless 
 you create it by idolizing another NPC. Call of Duty created a sense of partnership between you 
 and your squad members, if they were killed you felt rotten. In the sequel they replace the passed 
 one with a 'brand new' and 'shiny' re-spawned one. They are only a few scripted people. Generally 
 scripted is bad but there was a lack of it in Call of Duty 2, somehow they 'pulled it off' in the 
 previous game.
  Another lacking point in CoD2 is physics. I'm not game designer but the physics in this are so 
 basic you can't throw grenades realistically! 'Come on', you can call THIS next-gen? The fact that 
 they have decided to basically cut out physics is very questionable, from my point of view! The 
 lack in physics ruins the atmosphere; from dropping guns to dropping dead, when I burst through 
 a door (usually in slow motion) , i want to see my foes cracking their heads against the wall, falling 
 against each other their weapons soaring away from their flailing arms. The actual game in complete 
 contrast: When i burst through a door I see my foes collapse into the wall and their arms disappear 
 into each other, their guns balancing unrealistically on ledges after being thrown (somehow) completely 
 horizontally through the air. And as for my grenade? Well, when I tried to bounce it onto that 
 ledge it landed on the ledge but instead of toppling over directly to my targets feet, it just 
 balanced there very content in the fact it just broke the laws of physics. And it **** "Eureka 
 my ***, Archimedes" 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ThatGrungeKid18
Rating: 9.7
Date: Dec 11, 2005 12:02 pm PT
Review:  All I can say is wow! Call of Duty 2 is packed with awsome sounds, awsome graphics, great missions 
 = great game play, and a kick ass Multiplayer!! Unlike other WWII games Call of Duty 2 is actually 
 challenging, forcing you to think and use strategy to get through and complete your objectives. 
 Completing the objectives with the russians (starting army) unlocks the British and the Americans! 
 It is fairly long and very addictive, and if you get tired or stuck on single player mode, you 
 can always switch over to online deathmatch which is very fun, though it consists mostly of snipers 
 and campers. If you like WWII games, then I highly suggest you at least try out Call of Duty 2, 
 You will be amazed my brothers! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jakndaxter7223
Rating: 9.6
Date: Dec 11, 2005 11:23 am PT
Review:  This is truly the best Call of Duty out there. The graphics are clear cut, the sound perfect and 
 the intensity of the battles is unmatched. There is blood and bullet cassing everywhere... if you 
 poke your little head out, your dead. The explosions are perfect, and wait! the game is a challenge! 
 WOW! but still no squad action watsoever! sounds like call of duty... Stil the game is superb and 
 an instant buyer! Dont think about it for more than a second. I thought this game would be like 
 the other Call of Duties... terrible on all levels... i thought it would turn into a turn-based 
 card dueling 3rd person patforming rpg centered in willy wonka's factory... but i was wrong!!! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nwnoodle
Rating: 7.8
Date: Dec 11, 2005 7:12 am PT
Review:  Maybe I expected too much from this. I read several reviews and people raved about this game. There 
 are a slew of WWII games out there and though I enjoyed Call of Duty 2, I found myself thinking 
 "haven't I been through this before?". There are some great missions and gameplay within the game 
 but I found nothing exciting to to pull it away from the Medal of Honor series. The levels are 
 face paced and not real challenging. I often hurried through parts just to see what was next. The 
 graphics are great and the AI is decent (only decent) but I found it to be uneventful. I found 
 Brother in Arms to be much more entertaining simply because of the squad based theme. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: samsalek
Rating: 9.2
Date: Dec 11, 2005 2:22 am PT
Review:  I really get involved with WWII by this game for the first time!
  For a few moments I felt like a real soldier that has to fight to survive!
  I'm not exaggerating! 
 It's because of good graphic, sounds and effect,
  Also good mission's stories. It seems that they made a classic films about WWII! Maybe they could 
 win an Oscar prize :D
  
  It reminds me of Medal of honor 1, when everyone fascinated by that game, and now we have another 
 great game, I think it's be best game has ever made about WWII ...
  You will start the game with a little training that will connect to the first mission very exciting, 
 remember you're captain's words: The best training is fighting to survive!
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: willwilco
Rating: 9.2
Date: Dec 10, 2005 11:35 am PT
Review:  This game is a great follow up to COD. I put many hours in the first one and expect to put many 
 more in the second one as well. COD2 will not run on "your Father's PC". It does take quite a bit 
 of horsepower to run, but it is well worth it. I am running the game with an Athlon X2 4600+, 2GB 
 of memory, a 7800 GTX, and I still have to bump some of the detail down to get the frame rates 
 up where I like them. I am planning on getting another video card and running in SLI mode soon. 
 Also, Tweakguide has some tips that help boost the performance of your system to help get your 
 frame rates up as well. The new health system is interesting but takes getting used to. I would 
 love the opportunity to play some of the series from the Axis point of view. I am hoping that the 
 next series or patches will take advantage of the new dual-core processors.
  
  Keep up the great work! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: guildsander
Rating: 9.4
Date: Dec 10, 2005 11:30 am PT
Review:  Call of Duty is really the best war game ever made. It could be the best first person shooter game 
 to.
  
  I have played the demo and it was a really good gaming expirience. In the game my favourite weapon 
 was the thompson, but the only problem with it was that i could not find any ammo for it. The grenades 
 are good too. i liked the potatoe mashers because they seemed to kill better than the other grenades.
 
  
  The sounds of the game are great. I like it when when the germans say "granade". That just sounds 
 great. Also the sounds of dying are good to and i like to do the melee attack on them wen they 
 are on the ground.
  
  This is a good game so look for it in the stores!!!!
  
  PS! The trailer of the game is very good too so watch it in videos. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: masterchief0292
Rating: 9.3
Date: Dec 9, 2005 8:59 pm PT
Review:  well the sequal to 2003 game of year. and the question is does it hold up to it predacessor. and 
 yes it does. the graphics are truly next gen the detail is amazing from the serial number on the 
 m1 garand to the smoke effects. but all that detail means u must have a high end pc to get the 
 most out this game. the ai in this game is mindblowing they will take flank. it really puts u in 
 the. i could sit here talk about sound ect. but the verdict is clear cod2 is winner. but ur pc 
 isnt up to speed orignal cod 
::::::

::::::
UserName: The_Fat_Zebra
Rating: 7.2
Date: Dec 9, 2005 8:28 pm PT
Review:  Graphics:
  
  The graphics are very nice, though this game is not at all an option for the lower end systems. 
 My old computer, which met minimal specs and even had more ram (1 gig) , could absolutely not run 
 the game with everything cranked down to low. My high end system ran it pretty smoothly, although 
 I had some unexplainable lags in the SP where all of a sudden I would get like 2-4 fps. The system 
 is brand new, well maintained, no spyware or whatever. I checked for background processes, in short, 
 it was the game that was causing it.
  
  Sound: Really good sound. There seemed to be a mixup sometimes where a russian voice would shout 
 something in the British campaign... but other than that the traditional excellent voice work and 
 musical score from CoD I.
  
  Gameplay:
  
  I had some really fun moments in which you were really part of the action, and it felt as if you 
 actually were part of an overwhelming war. On the other hand, sometimes it felt as if all you could 
 do was go completely Rambo style if you are to beat a level. Some missions have way too much of 
 an arcade feel to it: Germans standing up in you MG fire and you mowing them down; clearing a bunker 
 while your teammates have a smoke outside; keeping a hill with absolutely no protection and still 
 surviving on level 3 (of 4) .
  Also, I found Point du Hoc WAY too easy. I mean, I got up immediatly and did die once. I remember 
 storming Omaha beach in Medal of Honor on hard. Now that was difficult (although not too difficult 
 also) . The point is that I was looking forward to feeling the desperation that those guys must 
 have felt when having to climb those rocks, but really didn't.
  
  Conclusion
  I enjoyed playing it, but expected more originality in the missions. Not that I kick on realism, 
 but a little bit more wouldn't have hurt the game. This is probably because it is a port from the 
 console version.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: glassesgeek
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 17, 2005 11:26 am PT
Review:  It only took a small group of ex-Medal of Honor programmers to create one of the greatest World 
 War II first-person shooter games to ever grace the PC and consoles. The small group of rebels, 
 now more commonly known as Infinity Ward, along with the help of Activision, released their first 
 title known as Call of Duty in 2003 and left no first-person shooter fanatic behind. Some may argue 
 that the game has easily surpassed Medal of Honors glory and with the recent release of Call of 
 Duty 2, Infinity Ward is looking to stay in that position. The much-anticipated sequel to Call 
 of Duty brings back the intense cinematic experiences that made you buy brand new speakers to enjoy 
 and brings along some exciting new tactics to help wipe the world clean of those Nazi crouts. 
 Overall, however, Call of Duty 2 doesnt bring anything all that new to the series or to the first-person 
 shooter genre in general. Instead, it recreates the memorable first-person shooter war experience 
 that everyone has come to know and love and does it once more with relentless heart-pounding action.
 
  
  While the most famous battles of WWII were covered beautifully in Call of Duty, its sequel can 
 definitely hold its own with many more unforgettable battles. Once again, you get to step into 
 the shoes of American, British, and Russian soldiers as you follow their stories through the war. 
 There are a total of 10 missions with a few sub-missions for each totaling a good 10 hours of Nazi-loving 
 on the standard difficulty. The American missions are, as one might expect, the main event of the 
 game and features yet another German machinegun-spraying-beach (or for you history buffs, Pointe 
 du Hoc) on D-Day as well as the bloody Bunker Hill battle. The British battles take place in North 
 Africa with the Desert Rats and offer the sand engulfing levels that make up for blandness with 
 short lasting tank driving along the sandy dunes. Finally, the snowy streets of Russia show the 
 darkest of the WWII atmospheres as you play as the Russians trying to protect the motherland. Each 
 battlefront has a very unique strategy and atmosphere that helps add quite a bit of diversity, 
 but can also make a player wish he/she were playing more on the front that taps into their inner 
 war hero most. The British and Russian campaigns can be played simultaneously (while the American 
 is saved for last) as the war progresses and the Nazis start to worry about their precious lives.
 
  
  Each nations infantry has a solid variety of rifles and machineguns to choose from, each with 
 their own obvious advantages (rifles for ranged shooting, machineguns for kamikaze) . However, there 
 are only a couple of new additions to the cast of weapons since Call of Duty, and for some reason, 
 pistols have practically been eliminated from the game (I thought everyone loved a Luger!) . The 
 sniper rifles have been greatly improved by including a feature that allows you to hold your breath 
 to steady your aim for a few seconds. While the game does very well with its historical accuracy 
 on the detail of the guns and comfortable control of each weapon, theres nothing noticeably new 
 in Call of Duty 2 that any first-person shooter fan wont already recognize.
  
  On the other hand, Call of Duty 2 does try to once again implement the most popular and impressive 
 elements of first-person shooter games, the key to its predecessors success. Infinity Ward noticed 
 the lack of health bars in more recent cinematic first-person shooters and decided to give it a 
 try. Removing hundreds of health packs from each level and relying on massive ambushes or piercing 
 grenades to kill a player proved to be a far more efficient method in portraying the cinematic 
 WWII experience. Theres nothing more annoying than multiple grenades randomly appearing and causing 
 your inevitable fate. Thankfully, Call of Duty 2 does well to help fix this aspect of past first-person 
 shooter woes with a Jedi power that allows you to sense grenades before they tear you apart through 
 a small grenade indicator. Finally, to keep you pleased at all times, it usually only takes one 
 dead Nazi to refill your grenade and ammo stock. Call of Duty 2 will keep you unrealistically satisfied 
 with its rather giving system that allows bullet wounds to not hurt after running away and makes 
 sure that ammo is always plentiful in case of emergiences. Though this may be a trend in a few 
 first-person shooter games, Call of Duty 2 may have taken the trend a little too far. It may have 
 lost a bit of its believability, but the experience delivered will not be easily forgotten.
  
  The cinematic intensity presented in Call of Duty 2 reflects not only the beauty of its predecessor, 
 but the finest that you can find in the war genre. The combination of a stellar orchestrated soundtrack 
 by Sin City composer Graeme Revell, loads of highly believable and accurate voice acting, sound 
 effects that are painfully intense and realistic, beautiful visuals and scripted environments that 
 keep you on your toes at all times come together to form the current ultimate WWII experience (even 
 while still devoid of dogfights and naval battles) . When the game throws you into German territory, 
 you know you are in German territory by the distinct German voices screaming orders and the well-designed 
 maps that breathe the time period. Visually, Call of Duty 2 is a hardware pusher that looks and 
 feels like WWII unlike any other game on both consoles and PC (yes, it is time to buy a new video 
 card) . Smoke grenades, vivid explosions and overhead dogfights all lend to the games cinematic 
 beauty. Although the animations may not be quite realistic, the environments that surround the 
 dozens of soldiers on the screen can at times be quite breathtaking.
  
  While some may complain of its scripted style, Call of Duty 2 tries to steer away from that reputation 
 by offering an average of 3 different routes to take during certain situations. The balance is 
 an improvement, but its still always quite obvious that the gameplay is scripted. This is, however, 
 not a quality that should always be frowned upon considering that scripted gameplay can still be 
 quite captivating and entertaining. Just imagine yourself on Bunker Hill as a German artillery 
 barrage comes down, shaking the earth and filling your surroundings in smoke as a hundred Germans 
 come charging at you from all sides. Enthralling? Most definitely.
  
  To enhance this fast-paced and explosive gameplay, Call of Duty 2 needed a believable AI that made 
 each Nazi look, feel, and act like someone you would want to kill. To an extent, Call of Duty 2 
 does this nicely; every miniscule tactic implemented by the enemy AI, such as wounded enemies crawling 
 for guns and enemies impressive use of finding and using cover, is enjoyable to behold and interact 
 with. However, there are other aspects that stick out quite blatantly sometimes and can become 
 an annoyance that is both unrealistic and disappointing. For example, you may be hiding in a building 
 hundreds of yards away, only to have a tank target you instead of your teammates who are standing 
 right in front of it. It is when the action slows down that Call of Duty 2 reveals its flaws and 
 takes away from its overall potential.
  
  Call of Duty had a more notable squad AI that was, while mainly scripted, far more exciting to 
 be thrown into. Its sequel, however, is sometimes clearly scripted and makes you feel as though 
 you are playing the Rambo hero rather than the John Doe and his small team of misfits in a 
 big bad war. Enemy squads tend to stay where they have been spawned and wait for you to come to 
 them. The AI feels as though its foundation is thousands of switches awaiting your loving touch 
 to help lead the game. It may make you wonder, Am I playing the game or helping it finish? Nevertheless, 
 the AI gets the job done in scaring the hell out of you as 50 Germans appear out of nowhere, each 
 with a fiery passion to see you dead. Thats really the main focus of the game and the fast-paced 
 action usually tends to hide these AI weaknesses.
  
  The multiplayer component of Call of Duty proved to be a rewarding experience that many first-person 
 shooter fans became hooked on. All of the original modes are still included (capture-the-flag, 
 team deathmatch, deathmatch, and the Counterstrike-like search-and-destroy) along with a new mode 
 named headquarters which reflects the overall theme of Call of Duty 2. In the new mode, two teams 
 must try and capture a headquarters and then immediately defend it against the opposing team, the 
 catch being that the defenders can no longer respawn. This represents Call of Duty 2s main gameplay 
 in that you are constantly conquering and then defending waves of German ambushes. Although fans 
 may have expected more from the multiplayer component this time around, theres no denying that 
 its still an excellent package altogether.
  
  While the game lacks any real story or characters to enjoy, it knows how to create a first-person 
 shooter experience that makes you sweat, enraged, and highly satisfied all at the same time. While 
 it may not bring anything new to the table in the first-person shooter genre, it knows how to fine 
 tune each of the genres best elements with stylish cinematics. While fans of the original Call 
 of Duty will forever be amazed by its somewhat revolutionary change to the WWII genre, its sequel 
 offers yet another series of experiences that any fan of the genre (or anyone who has a passionate 
 hatred towards Nazis) should enlist in immediately.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ltmatthew
Rating: 9.6
Date: Dec 9, 2005 2:05 pm PT
Review:  You may just think this is another WWII shooter, but this game is different. With a large array 
 of realistic sounding weapons, an immersive single player, and ass kicking Multiplayer you should 
 make this one a Christmas list must buy. The single player has a fantastic cinematic feel to it. 
 The impressive music adds to that. You play as the Russians, British, and Americans. With its "voice 
 chatter system" your fellow solders can tell you everything from a grenade nearby to a mass of 
 enemies flanking your position. Multiplayer is just as good with several versions of game types 
 to play youll never get tired. It also allows you to download mods directly from the game. You 
 can hook up your head set and get an easy to use voice over IP. Also if you buy it for the PC the 
 requirements to play are rather low. Top all that off with groundbreaking graphics quite simply 
 "YOU HAVE A GREAT GAME. You should definitely buy this for the x-box 360 or PC. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HRGeist
Rating: 7.3
Date: Dec 9, 2005 1:16 pm PT
Review:  I have played my fare share of first-person shooters. Being a big fan of the Medal of Honor series 
 and Call of Duty. I was anxious for Call of Duty 2 to come out. Here is my review.
  
  Graphics: 
  Pros : Very beautiful when you select Direct X9 option. Everything is very crisp 
 and clear. You can even see the snow flakes swirl around in the wind during the Russian Campaign.
 
  Cons : You really need a top of the line rig to run CoD2 with Direct X9 feature.
  
  This is the first time ive seen a game where it offers you to use Direct X9 or Direct X 7. No doubt 
 the game looks amazing with X9. I have a AMD athlon 3000+ , Radeon 9800 pro, gig of ram. When I 
 picked Direct X9 feature, my system almost came to a hault. I was getting about 5 fps (Frames per 
 second) . Only way I could run it was to put settings on medium and run it at 640x800 (no thanks) 
 :)
  
  When I picked Direct X7 option, it ran smooth as silk. Of course the enviroment and the details 
 where not as lush, at least I could play it on high resolution and not have to worry about performance 
 problems.
  
  Gameplay : 
  Pro : Chaos! There is hardly any points in the game where it is quite. You are constantly on the 
 move, dodging bullets. Very fast paced.
  Cons : Quake, Unreal Tournament meets Call of Duty2. Relatively easy single player campaing. No 
 control over squad mates. Very arcade type. No where near being simulation
  
  If you are looking for a realistic shooter, then its best to turn away. This is one of the biggest 
 dissapointments I faced when playing this game. It literaly takes half a clip just to bring down 
 the enemy. You are basically a one man army in this game.
  
  Also you dont have a health bar. When you take sufficent amount of damage, your screen becomes 
 more and more red, along with heavy breathing and blurred vision. When this happens, take cover 
 and your hp will regenerate..... At first it sounds really dumb but then whats the real differnce 
 in stumbling over a med pack in any other game?
  
  Another feautre implemented is the grenade indicator. Whenever a grenade is close in your proximity 
 area, an indicator and arrow pointing in general direction will come up. So its near impossible 
 to kill anyone with it since they know one has landed near them.
  
  The good thing is the game still has that chaotic feel to it. Some situations you will find yourself 
 not knowing what to really do because so much is going on at once =)
  
  Sound :
  Pros : Voice acting, scripting is very good. Back round, ambient, explosions
  Cons : Weapons.
 
  
  I wasnt pleased at all with the weapon sounds. Most of them sound to similar, or sound like someone 
 is typing really fast on a type writter. As for the surrounding, it was nice.
  
  Overall :
  The game has its ups and downs. The single player campagin is very short and leaves 
 no real desire to go back and replay the missions again. I was able to beat the game in less then 
 4hours..... on the 3rd most difficult setting. (There are 4 settings)
  
  It just has to much of a quake feel to it. Its very arcade and has no realism in it at all.
  
 
  I would wait for this game to hit $30 before buying it. This felt more like an upgraded expansion 
 pack. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xXTHExPAPERxBOY
Rating: 9.6
Date: Dec 8, 2005 4:50 pm PT
Review:  Before Call of Duty 2, I did HAVE Call of Duty (Original) , I played it and I loved it. I bought 
 Call of Duty United Offense, It was alright.. Not that great.. Call of Duty 2, Oh, Where do I start? 
 I enjoy the wide selection of weapons, the radar format of how If your opponent fires a shot, It 
 pings on the radar. The maps are excellent. A huge step-Up from The original Call of Duty maps. 
 Not only are the new maps excellent, but the (Country) Skins! The Russians are probaly my favourite 
 country. I own a NVidia AGP8X GeFORCE 6200, I was happy that It was ABLE to handle the high graphics 
 settings on Call of Duty 2. I myself think I have an Excellent connection due to reading my ping 
 that never exceeds 20. One thing I really didn't like about Call of Duty 2 was how you don't have 
 a health bar.. I mean hey that's okay, but when your trying to play, it would help... ALOT. The 
 gameplay is ecellent. I enjoy playing the wide variety of game types.. CTF (Capture The Flag) , SAD (Search 
 and Destroy) TDM (Team Deathmatch) HQ (Headquarters) , and DM (Deathmatch) .
  
  Overall, I love Call of Duty. It is an excellent game and will go down in the one of PC's Most-Played 
 Game.
  
  Thank you for reading,
  David (THEPAPERBOY!) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SlickPattio
Rating: 8.2
Date: Dec 8, 2005 11:12 am PT
Review:  This game makes you really realize what our grandfathers must have gone through during world war 
 two. The sound in this game is probably the best that i've ever hear in a world war 2 game. The 
 weapons in the game make you feel like your in an authentic world war two game; because of the 
 detail on the gun. You can see the serial numbers on all the guns very cool. I was really hoping 
 that they would have put few more levels, to make this game a little better value for the money. 
 In the whole Call of Duty 2 is very good game worth your time and most importantly your money 
::::::

::::::
UserName: yab_007
Rating: 9.6
Date: Dec 8, 2005 2:32 am PT
Review:  Call of Duty 2 is perhaps one of the best world war 2 first person shooter game. this one is more 
 realistic than ever and i haven't seen such a good graphics in a FPS game. i must admit that the 
 tactical gameplay is somewhat similar to the previous edition that is call of duty 1 and it makes 
 it a little bit easier for players who played the previous edition. this doesn't mean that newbies 
 will get stuck with it but in fact they will learn it more easily than veterans of the game. ;-)
 
  The graphics and the sound are fabulous. there is perhaps a problem for those who have old 3d 
 cards. i have been saying this ever since i am here that all users who wants to play new games 
 at full capacity must buy new graphic cards and i recommend ATI radeon x1800. it is expensive but 
 the pleasure of gaming is unique. the sound card is not of that importance but the 3d card it is 
 critical in gameplay. of course you must have a quite fast cpu as well. a Pentium 4 3.0GHz will 
 do or you can choose the AMD 64bit athlon. well the choice is up to you but the game is only for 
 you. try it... and tell me...
  bye 
::::::

::::::
UserName: alakoma
Rating: 8.3
Date: Dec 8, 2005 2:24 am PT
Review:  well i started to play the game with my friend's with a lan game, and i really enjoy playing this 
 game, the graphics are great the sound is good, but the game play is very good, it's give you a 
 really realty feel in the game.
  
  so i started to play the single player game. well here there is no change from the first game, 
 you have a to follow order and complete the objective one by one. you have only one way to finish 
 the objective, and you can't move around much. 
  but the game give you an adrenaline from the beginning of the game and it's doesn't stop until 
 you finish the game, you dont have any time to rest, the action is there all the time.
  i think the different's from other games, you don't have a lot of thinking to do, like the search 
 for medic, here if you get shot the screen will be red, to show you that you where injured but 
 if you step away from the action for a couple of seconds you can continue the game. you don't have 
 a bar that show you your life time, you just play the game and need to take cover.
  the game is very good, the action doesn't stop, and the objective are very good, you have battle 
 from an open field with tank's, to the close combat inside the roads and building, this give you 
 a very good game, with a lot of action, and no time to rest.
  
  the main thing that is not good in the game, in my opinion, that the game dont spread well enough 
 from one campaign to the other, i felt that the Russian campaign and the American campaign is very 
 short, and the English campaign is very long, i felt in the English campaign that in the final 
 objectives that it's almost the same as the others.
  
  so maybe the feeling is like that because there is alot of action an you dont get notice the time, 
 but this is the global feeling.
  
  so at the end, this is a very good game, alot of action, good graphics and sound, and the multi 
 player game is very good also, lots of map's and let you enjoy with your friend for alot of hour's. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: brealeygp
Rating: 8.2
Date: Dec 7, 2005 8:10 am PT
Review:  After many weeks of saying it & nagging, my brother finally got round to buying this game, & i 
 cannot fault him for doing so. By any definition this is a great WW2 FPS game with great multiplayer 
 & singleplayer together. This eview is short because this game is that good, bar a few things. 
 The single player campaign, while very enjoyable, is annoyingly short. I cant have taken more then 
 5hours on regular difficulty to complete the whole thing. While you may say "why dont you try it 
 on different settings?" i reply "because once youve killed scores of Germans map after map level 
 after level, the difficulty level doesnt make me wanna take that tourch up again." Though the AI 
 is good, there are times when u just wanna shoot your fellow menn urself, & sometimes do. Other 
 then these qualms thoough there is little if anything wrong with this game. If ur not into multiplayer, 
 best wait till its a little cheaper. Everyone else, buy it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Scriptorum
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 7, 2005 6:59 am PT
Review:  I was a big fan of the original Call of Duty. When I think back on what made the game special instead 
 of just a Medal of Honor clone it was the epic sequences. Crossing the river into Stalingrad, while 
 borrowing liberally from the film Enemy at the Gates, is a fine example of an epic sequence from 
 the original game. There are a few scenes in CoD2 that have high drama in them, but none so memorable 
 as in the original. The "trying to drive through a town while before shot at" mission however is, 
 of course, present.
  
  The gameplay is more of the same. The graphics are perhaps insubstantially improved, with detailed 
 but plastic faces on all soldiers. Audio is damn near top notch, a lot of great sound effects and 
 non-repetetive filler. It falls just short of a 10 because some positional effects are disorienting. 
 For example, in one scene there's a tank in town you have to find. The audio gets louder (sort 
 of) as you get closer, but turning your head to locate the source doesn't work at all. It often 
 seems like the tank should be right behind that wall in front of you, which it is not.
  
  If you didn't get enough of the original game, and you think I'm a crackpot for harping on epic 
 sequences, this game may be for you. There's certainly a lot of value here. You get three different 
 campaigns, so the variety in locales is high as in the original. And of course there's the multiplayer, 
 which is still fun. But I can't help but feel like I've done it all before and COD2 hasn't shown 
 me much to stand out. This feels more like an expansion than a sequel. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tedlimert
Rating: 9.4
Date: Dec 7, 2005 2:07 am PT
Review:  When writing your review, remember to keep the language clean. Reviews must be 100 words minimum. 
 We encourage you to try to get your review right the first time -- you may choose to edit it later 
 on, but by doing so, you will lose any positive feedback associated with the review. We encourage 
 you to write your review in a word processor or text editor, save it to your local disk, then When 
 writing your review, remember to keep the language clean. Reviews must be 100 words minimum. We 
 encourage you to try to get your review right the first time -- you may choose to edit it later on, 
 but by doing so, you will lose any positive feedback associated with the review. We encourage you 
 to write your review in a word processor or text editor, save it to your local disk, then When 
 writing your review, remember to keep the language clean. Reviews must be 100 words minimum. We 
 encourage you to try to get your review right the first time -- you may choose to edit it later on, 
 but by doing so, you will lose any positive feedback associated with the review. We encourage you 
 to write your review in a word processor or text editor, save it to your local disk, then 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kromedeyez
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 7, 2005 1:39 am PT
Review:  This is the best war game I have ever played. I truely feel that it is way better than Battflefield 
 2 which I own and also love. But this game is something else from the gfx which are a 10 right 
 off the screen. The gameplay is awesome, on some levels you see as much as 20 something characters 
 fighting at the same time. This game took the D. Day seen to the next level with the sound and smoke 
 affects which are magnificient. Call Of Duty 2 is truely a classic. It looks great when you have 
 it on surround and a 27in television. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ndut2000id
Rating: 7.7
Date: Dec 7, 2005 1:08 am PT
Review:  At the first time i played the first Call of Duty, i got a lot of new experience that i never been 
 through with other similiar game, it has great music that can reach our emotional, good sound fx 
 quality. and great advunture.
  But in the second sereis of this game everything just the same there is nthing new oe omething 
 that really makes me amaze. well no doubt that it is also have good sound, good music, and better 
 graphic. but nothing new on it. we already experince riding a tank, firing machine gun from boat 
 or truck.
  So i say it would be better or best game if they give us something innovative gameplay.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: scorpion_great
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 6, 2005 4:45 pm PT
Review:  Personally I already got bored of all the WW2 games, but Call Of Duty 2 had a different feeling 
 here. When I played it, I actually felt like I was in the game.
  
  The gameplay was awesome. The AI wasnt the smartest, but they did however get more aggressive 
 and a bit smart. For example now they can pick up the grenade and throw it back at you. The levels 
 were, and each one of them was different and unique. The only thing I was disappointed at was that 
 the Russian campaign was too short, and I think it should have been longer. I liked what they did 
 to the weapons, and the sniper too because now you have to press "Shift" to hold the sniper rifle 
 steady. This time theres no med packs, it only depends on how many shots are fired at you right 
 away.
  
  The graphics were nice too, and they did not lag the game. Definitely better graphics, and more 
 realistic graphics.
  
  The sound was amazing and very realistic. I liked how you hear the shots in the background, and 
 it sounded like your fighting a real battle.
  
  The multiplayer is fun too, but unless you a good player at FPS games, don't expect to pwn people 
 because most of the gamers there are pro. Theres different multiplater gametypes such as capture 
 the flag, and Headquarters.
  
  The value I believe was a ripoff, but it really depends where you buy it. I bought it at EB Games 
 for $70.
  
  Overall I believe if you like WW2 games or any war games, then Call Of Duty 2 is a definitely must.
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Adlerson
Rating: 4.5
Date: Dec 6, 2005 3:45 pm PT
Review:  To those of us who remember the endless hours of fun that multiplayer online CoD is/was, don't 
 go expecting it from this game. This has the feeling of a console game, and everything about it 
 has been simplified and dumbed down. Less weapons, less game modes, smaller maps.. You can even 
 get kills just shooting in the /vicinity/ of enemies now. The sound is the worst part of it, most 
 automatic weapons sound like they have a silencer on them when you fire.
  
  In short; Wait for a patch to see if they start taking us consumers seriously. If not.. Stay clear.
 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: hideandfreak
Rating: 7.8
Date: Dec 6, 2005 2:41 pm PT
Review:  Although this game and the original are very well done, the game feels fairly formulaic at this 
 point. There is really not much new or interesting and even though the game isn't boring it is 
 very predictable. The major grip I have with this game is just how linear the missions are. Sure 
 you can choose which way to go around a railroad car or which order to take out flak cannons, but 
 locked doors, invisible walls and the many barricades pretty much keep you on a set path. This 
 game is really just a moving shooting gallary. With that said this is a solid and enjoyable game 
 for people that didn't get enough the first time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: theragu40
Rating: 9.1
Date: Dec 6, 2005 2:10 pm PT
Review:  Call of Duty 2 is a game that came out with fairly high expectations after all the Game of the 
 Year honors that the original Call of Duty garnered. While it does not blow any of those expectations 
 away, it certainly meets them.
  
  This game is incredibly intense from start to finish (which takes somewhere between 12 to 15 hours 
 on normal difficulty, by the way) , and the action is pretty much non-stop. If there was ever a 
 game whose simulation of the maelstrom of war made you want to huddle in a corner and cry, this 
 one is it. But cowering is not an option, because in most instances the enemies will just keep 
 respawning if you do not press forward, a feature which began to irritate by the end of the game.
 
  
  Despite these infinite and faceless enemies, the AI is very good, and you will see enemies flank 
 you, distract you for an ambush, and flush you out with grenades. In most cases, the enemies will 
 do more than just pop in and out of cover. They seem to actually adapt to the situation.
  
  The sound and graphics are great in this game, even when you force it to DirectX 7 mode, but if 
 you have an older system, know that utilizing said DirectX mode will allow you to run the game 
 at acceptably brisk framerates.
  
  The storyline of the individual soldiers you play still are fairly vague, and the missions don't 
 really seem connected, but this was not a factor in the first game, and it doesn't really affect 
 the experience here.
  
  Along with the incongruous storyline, also returning is the same excellent gameplay from the first 
 game, along with some nice tank driving diversions in the middle. These probably should have felt 
 out of place, but for some reason they did not.
  
  After beating the single-player, you should be adequately prepared for the game's online mode, 
 which is also very good. The maps are varied, and the games I have played in actually create a 
 real line of battle between the two teams through the use of spawn points that shift based on where 
 your team is. This is unlike any other shooter I have played, and it really helps to lend a sense 
 of realism to the online experience, which is why it has become my favorite part of the game.
 
  
  Overall a highly recommended game.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: StMalice
Rating: 8.9
Date: Dec 6, 2005 7:42 am PT
Review:  ... but, I think it's nothing more then a continuation of the same game. This isn't so much a bad 
 thing though. The first one came out and it was pretty ground breaking in a genre saturated with 
 similarities. Now, it's a different part of the war which adds some new dimension to the game. 
 Perhaps game companies can take a look at things like and make the price point a little better, 
 say perhaps $39.99. I long for the day when we can just simply download sequels to games. Will 
 there be a 3rd? Perhaps, there's always the Pacific theater which could be very interesting as 
 well. Might also be interesting to add squad based commands which is a lot of in games like Ghost 
 Recon and the like. Also co-op, why companies have gotten away from this is beyond me, could add 
 so much to this game. I know a number of people, a lot my LAN buddies that never purchased either 
 of these based on that alone. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cfwhy
Rating: 9.3
Date: Dec 6, 2005 7:19 am PT
Review:  When I first played Call of Duty, the memory of that game is etched in my brain forever. I was 
 longing for the second title. And it is here at last, and it is as good as the last one. 
  
  The game-play is the same as last the last title, but it is a first person shooter after all. 
 But this one, combined with the great graphics and astounding sounds, you'd actually feel like 
 you are in the war itself. 
  
  Unfortunately, the campaign really isn't long enough to satisfy me. It dropped a few of the reconnaissance 
 missions in Call of Duty. But these missions are a little hard to play since you are alone. In 
 the second title, like the first title, you have a whole battalion of soldiers fighting with you. 
 And I really love it.
  
  Overall, this game is a game that you can hardly forget after playing through the campaign. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: elcon
Rating: 9.1
Date: Dec 5, 2005 5:18 pm PT
Review:  
  Call of duty2, the long anticepated sequel to the game of the year in 2003, has finally arrived. 
 Call of duty2, is First person shooter based during the second world war, ww2. It provides a unique 
 experience where you actually play with other soldiers during the battles, other games such as 
 the Medal Of Honor series, just sticked you in and had you fight like some secret weapon domolishing 
 machine... And we all know that's not how ww2 was won.
  
  The graphics in this game are amazing, don't look at gamespot's pics, they arn't even playing the 
 game all of the way up in there, and it's kind of sad comming from a profesionall site such as 
 this one. Look at the videos, this game is gorgous. Lighting and shine effects, shadows, very detailed 
 textures and models that look real to life with many polygons. 
  
  The sound in this game is amazing aswell, the developers knew that during fights in wars, or battles, 
 soldiers are calling out positions and orders left and right.. on both sides. This is exactly what 
 you get during gameplay. Your men are calling out things like, he's right behind that table on 
 the left! , you look, and they are right there. The guns sound real, the voice acting is amazing 
 x3. 
  
  The gameplay is great! A unique shoot em up with short range, mid range, and long range weapons. 
 Singleplayer provides you with many missions on the russian, british, and american sides during 
 ww2. This provides alot of different weapons, voices, models, characters, missions, and atmosphere. 
 The AI (Artificial intelligence) is good, nothing new though, i was kinda saddened by it actually. 
 No flanking, and they barely run for cover and try to dodge your bullets when you flank them, they 
 just turn around from where they are and shoot at you.
  
  The online is a step back. With less gametypes, and only a handfull of new maps and older modified 
 maps pulled it, kinda left me a bitter taste after playing. I whanted to have fun, i almost did, 
 but it just felt like i've played it all before. I pulled down the value just for this reason... 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: doody360
Rating: 9.4
Date: Dec 5, 2005 10:42 am PT
Review:  My heart pounded in my ears. The man beside me emptied his stomach onto the cold iron floor, adding 
 to the few inches of liquid already sloshing around from the journey.
  "Alright men! Listen up! As soon as we hit the beach, get to your designated points and clear out 
 those MG 42 nests! God be with you" I felt queasy, and it wasn't because of the rocking of the 
 lander. Suddenly, a death rattle as the iron ring spun to open the door to my death.
  
  I'd already been playing for a few hours and was completely entranced by it. Despite it's similarities 
 to the previous games, I was still drooling all over my zboard and ducking at bullets that weren't 
 being fired at me. It was sublime. The first ten minutes had me diving for cover behind my swivel 
 chair as MG42's rained death down upon my position. But all this was pitiful in the face of multiplayer. 
 Jumping online with my 1mb connection, I instantly realised how much harder life will be with people 
 as my enemies. But I coped. I'm already in a clan, one of the fast-growing realism ones (11th Hussars) , 
 adding another dimension to the gameplay. And yet, it still leaves me staring at the ground and 
 wondering if they'll ever develop a decent texture, or shooting the face off germans and thinking 
 that they may be smart for AI, but they really die too easily. But, despite a few minor faults, 
 COD 2 remains in my veeeery good books 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Marcinkonys
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jan 19, 2006 3:03 am PT
Review:  The original Call of Duty featured an amazing single-player mode. This games single-player is 
 even better. There are three campaigns: Russian, British and American. Each campaign has several 
 chapters. The game is quite long. It took me about 15 hours to pass it on the second hardest difficulty.
 
  
  The game features amazing graphics and runs very good even if you have a crappy computer. Just 
 go to the options and select DirectX 7. The graphics wont look that good then, but itll run 
 good. Call of Duty 2 supports Pixel Shader 3. Smoke and fire look very realistically. There are 
 a lot more cool effects
  
  The game is divided into three campaigns: Russian, British, and American. You start as comrade 
 Vasili. The first mission, like in Call of Duty, is a basic training course. After the Russian 
 campaign, youre Sergeant Davis, a British soldier. All missions in the British campaign take place 
 in Africa. Theres also a tank mission, too. Lastly, theres an American campaign. Youre playing 
 as Private Taylor. The American campaign features the best mission in the game, IMO  D-Day.
  
  All weapons in the game are re-modeled. There are some new ones, too. For example, the Russian 
 SVT40. You can only carry two weapons at a time in singleplayer. You also get some grenades and 
 smoke grenades. It is a lot easier to use grenades now, since they arent a separate weapon. You 
 can throw them in one button click. Smoke grenades are new to Call of Duty. They create a cloud 
 of smoke and let you advance without being spotted and are very useful for getting past MG42s or 
 tanks.
  
  There is a new health system in singleplayer. You dont have to search for health packs anymore. 
 When you get hurt, the screen turns red. Find some cover instantly, because if you continue taking 
 damage, you die. Same thing when you are driving a tank.
  
  The multiplayer of Call of Duty 2 features 4 game-modes and 13 maps. Theres Deathmatch, where 
 everyone fights for themselves; Team Deathmatch, where there are two teams fighting; Capture the 
 Flag, where teams have to pick their opponents flag and bring it to their side; and Search and 
 Destroy, where the Allied team has to plant a bomb on one of two objectives.
  
  The multiplayer is great, though I havent played it for a long time. All game modes are fun in 
 different aspects. There are some things I dont like about it The number one thing is the Shotgun. 
 It is way too powerful. You can shoot your enemy from hundreds of meters in one shot
  
  There are some cool things, too. For instance, if an enemy is shooting at you, you can see his 
 location on your radar. Some people say it isnt realistic. I dont think so
  
  If you like action games, I highly recommend you getting this one. Both singleplayer and multiplayer 
 are very fun. Buy it  you wont be disappointed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SproketLoop
Rating: 9.3
Date: Dec 4, 2005 7:24 pm PT
Review:  Activision's COD was a good game make no mistake about that; but it had some flaws. The multiplayer, 
 while good, was a little stale and not enough people played it, myself included (Day of Defeat 1.6 
 COD 1) . The single player was decent, yet it lacked much depth in my mind and was very linear. 
 Call of Duty 2 takes COD 1's strengths and improves upon them incredibly while taking the weaknesses 
 of COD 1 and patching them up remarkably well. The single player is amazingly fun given the fact 
 that it is linear in it's objectives, yet very open ended as to how you complete them. The multiplayer 
 is now incredibly fun because of it's intensity. You feel like you're in the war practically. Gameplay 
 and amazing multiplayer aside, the graphics are jaw dropping and totally orgasmic to look at and 
 play with. However, those graphics come at a price, I have never a single system that can run COD 
 2 on relitively high settings smoothly. The smoke, and player models and the weather all create 
 a very belivable and amazing experience, yet you will be hard pressed to make your computer run 
 it well. Also, the game comes with 6 discs. Yes that's six discs. Half-life 2 came with 5 and that's 
 saying alot. Overall, COD 2 is super intense, very pleasing to play on and offline, beautiful to 
 look at and worth every penny. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: waqashussain
Rating: 8.7
Date: Dec 4, 2005 7:08 pm PT
Review:  This is ver fine game inall other action adventure games and i like this game very much and it 
 has very high graphicsthats why i like this game. it is not very diffcult game you have to concentrate 
 on it. this is an exelet game this game is batter than other gamees. ok my review is over what is 
 yours.
  
  For those of you already familiar with the game, let's quickly discuss the differences between 
 all three versions. The Xbox one has 480p support, but when enabled, the aliasing is out of control. your 
 review in a word processor or text editor, save it to your local disk, then copy and paste it into 
 the posting box below. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: byronkiser
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 4, 2005 12:56 pm PT
Review:  Let's face it -- if your a cod nut like me-you had high hopes for cod 2.-but in the process of making 
 a great game better-they tried to change too much and dropped the ball. instead of making the game 
 run smooth on older computers (i mean like a year or two-ya know how fast ya have to upgrade to 
 keep up) they made a really good game unreachable by many diehard fans by running up system requirements 
 and losing a lot of people who were crazy about COD UO and Cod. Makes me wonder if maybe the idea 
 of a great game has been lost in graphics and memory -- and of course -- more sequels to the game ---thats 
 ashame too -- Call of Duty used to be the king of multi-player too -- COD -- COD UO -- still have lots 
 of players -- COD 2? well i'll put it this way -- when my friends and I are playing United Offensive -- theres 
 not a shortage of players on any given night -- and when you do lose one to COD2 -- he's going over 
 to a buddies house to play it on HIS faster -- more memory -- maxxed out graphics card -- computer that 
 will need upgrading next year ---when Call of Duty 3 comes out! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Chetnik19
Rating: 9.6
Date: Dec 4, 2005 1:18 am PT
Review:  Call of Duty 2 offers a great singleplayer mode and multiplayer mode. In singleplayer campagin you'll 
 fight as Russian, British or American. All of them includes great action combat, historical corrcet 
 battles, and great sense of what it is being on battlefield. Multiplayer features one new game type 
 and that is Capture the flags which is great to play if there more than SIX player. All the other 
 gameplay features are standard. Some of teh multiplayer maps are rebuild from the COD1 like  
 and Bocage and of course there are tottaly new ones like Leningrad, Moskow and others. The only mistake 
 this game has made is that you do not have HEALTH bar. COD2 features great graphics and nice collection 
 of WWII weaponary. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CptPatterson
Rating: 9.3
Date: Dec 3, 2005 4:49 pm PT
Review:  Game Play
  ---------------
  
  Call of Duty 2, offers a fantastic Single Player campaign, although it is short (to short) you 
 will love every second of that time. you are surrounded by dosens of soldiers all of them looking 
 and animating great, 
  the intense action puts you right in WWII, people yelling, bullets wizzing everywhere, mortars 
 bombarding your position, soldiers dieng beside you.
  This game shows you just what the war was like, and it shows it well.
  The new health recover 
 feature is also a nice new addition, instead of hunting for health ... packages?... Now, once you 
 have taking a certain amount of damage the screen will pulse and you must find cover untill it 
 stops. It also offers some Non-Linear action (some) such as in the last level, you are in a small 
 town being reinforced with germans while you and your fellow american's must hunt down and destroy 
 2 tiger tanks.
  Once you have beaten the game... (wich shouldnt take to long) you can play throught it on veteran 
 difficulty for the ultimate realism experience.
  But other that that... there is not much else to do in single player. And thats why the MuLtIpLaYeR 
 is here!!! not much to say about it ... other then it is fantasic!!! 
  
  Graphics
  -------------
  Call of duty 2 looks absolutly stunning! Amazing 2D effects such as snow, smoke, 
 fire, explosions, and ricochets look beeutiful.
  The new bump mapping details are seeexxxy, and the fluent animations of characters are very realistic. 
 
  But if you want to play with all these settings on high... you better have one hell of a computer.
 
  
  Sound
  ----------
  Perfect!!!! Great voice work, Realistic loud gun sounds, big explosions, superb ambient sounds 
 all add up to make the game MUCH more realistic, and add to the atmosphere.
  
  + Solid Single Player
  + Solid Multi Player
  + Crisp Graphics
  + PERFECT sound
  + You are 
 in the War!!!
  - For a very short amount of time
  - Nothing revolutionary, it just does evrything right. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: exclusiveburner
Rating: 8.8
Date: Dec 3, 2005 4:09 pm PT
Review:  I gotta say this is the best World War 2 game ever. No other WW2 games have been done as good as 
 this one, with that said here are the pro's and con's.
  
  Pro's
  - Action is a great element in this game, as enemies are trying to flank you and throwing grenades 
 at you consistently.
  - Guns feel very realistic but could of had a little more power to them, like FEAR.
  - Environments 
 are great in this game, multiple paths to go during missions not just single pathed like other 
 games. At one point your crawling through a oil pipe where Germans soldiers are shooting holes 
 through it and looks very good and gives it a great action oriented feel.
  - Graphics are great part of this game which make it feel more realistic. Great enviroments as 
 I already said, the smoke/explosion effects are o so pretty.
  
  Con's
  - Multiplayer to me wasnt enough to keep me playing it, the single player is great however so i 
 still love this game.
  - Story was pretty basic, your a soldier during WW2 and have to kill Germans just like every other 
 World War 2 game. So it wasnt very original.
  
  Overall i give it a 8.8 because of the graphics and gameplay. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: archtal
Rating: 9.3
Date: Dec 3, 2005 2:39 pm PT
Review:  I thought that the game was very well-balanced, intense, and dropped you right into a historical 
 battlefield. It seemed like every scenario presented such a variety of game playing strategies 
 that not every situation was the same. The AI was amazing and probably the smartest I've seen in 
 long time for a WWII-themed FPS. The weapons felt real and responsive, and the grenade blast effects 
 were great as well. I personally liked bashing Germans with the butt of my gun or running up and 
 shooting them point-blank in the head. The levels were very reminiscent of historical battle sites 
 I've seen, and I think the developers did a good job in portraying an actual battlefield mostly 
 historically accurate.
  
  The dialogue was the same as usual, immersing the player more into the actual feel of the game 
 and its surroundings and getting to know your squad who will die and continue to spawn until you 
 have finished the level, which I thought was amusing. Each of the different factions you play seemed 
 pretty balanced and the levels set for the factions corresponded pretty well.
  
  I did like the other added animations put into the game such as putting a sticky bomb on the side 
 of a tank and watching your squad open up the tank hatch and drop one in to obliterate any Germans 
 in there. Also, the smoke grenade effects were effective enough where I couldn't see, and they 
 couldn't see, which made it a little balanced.
  
  Although there were some great features in the game, there were also some ones that I wasn't particularly 
 happy about. First, the fact that you really do not have a "life meter" was pretty frustrating 
 to me because I like to play by seeing how much life I have left to take on 15 Germans, and the 
 satisfaction of me winning against them with barely any life left. The fact that your health regenerates 
 so quickly and all you need to do is run out, shoot, kill, and run back to cover to regenerate 
 your health seemed too unrealistic and, to be honest, too easy to defeat your enemies. Another 
 troublesome feature that made gameplay a bit too easy was the fact that your squad members continually 
 respawn to help you. I understand that you need them sometimes to help you accomplish your mission, 
 but having them just continually run up to the enemy to get shot is completely pointless. I know 
 this isn't BIA, but at least have the computer AI only come when it needs to and not have to regenerate 
 all the time. Puts a little more challenge in it, I say.
  
  Ok, enough babbling, overall this game was pretty awesome, with great graphics, effects, AI enemies, 
 weapons, and gameplay even though there were feature flaws in my own opinion 
::::::

::::::
UserName: oODreaDOo
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 3, 2005 9:46 am PT
Review:  Call of Duty 2 is by far one of the most amazing game that I have ever played. The game has amazing 
 graphics, sound, game-play, scenarios, weapons, and realism. The creators of this game are pure 
 genius. I don't know why anyone wouldn't like this game besides the fact that they don't like FPS 
 ( First Person Shooter ) games overall. The add-ons that the makers put onto this sequal to the 
 greatest game of the year is just amazing, these people are awsome. All of the maps have been slightly 
 changed but it is obviously for the best. The new maps added onto this game are just awsome. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gamemasta456456
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 2, 2005 6:43 pm PT
Review:  WOW!!! This is a good game.. What is basically going on is WWII. Some people classify that this 
 game is the same as all the other call of duty games. But its not!!! EVERYTHING IS PERFECT!!! Although 
 some people get this one confused with the consoles "Call Of Duty 2: Big Red One" which is also 
 a good game but about Call of duty 2. But like all the others you can play as the Russians, Americans, 
 And British.
  
  Pros
  + The Amazing graphics in this game are wll AMAZING!!!
  + The gameplay is challenging (which is good, for most people)
  + The sound sounds so realistic.
 
  + Sometimes you might think that you are actually fighting in WWII right now realife)
  +The variety of weapons is good
  + All of the different campaings is awesome
  +The multiplayer...
 
  
  Cons (not that many but important)
  - You can not cock grenades.
  - This might get a little too challenging for some peoples
  - Since there is soo much stuff in 
 this game, sometimes ur computer might slow down and it you will get frustrated with the slowness...
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Fatality4u
Rating: 9.4
Date: Dec 2, 2005 7:05 am PT
Review:  Call of Duty 2 takes place during the infamous World War 2. You will be put into the shoes of three 
 different men during each phase of the Soviet, British, and American Campaigns. In the Soviet campaign 
 you begin as a Soviet private beginning basic training in preparation for the impending German 
 Attack. The basic training provides you an introduction into the basic controls that will be necessary 
 for you to survive. Your training will be cut short by the quick invasion of the Germans into the 
 area in which you are training. You are then in charge of repelling and mopping up all Germans 
 in the invasion. As you progress through the Soviet campaign the British campaign will be unlocked, 
 while the American campaign can be unlocked in the same fashion with the British campaign.
  
  For most of the missions in the Soviet campaign, you will be charged with repelling and expelling 
 German troops from the streets of several Soviet hotspots. The British campaign will place you 
 primarily in the Northern Africa with the sand and hot weather everywhere around you. During the 
 British campaign you will be tasked with taking control of Africa back from the Germans. The British 
 campaign will give a feel of taking the fight to the Germans while the Soviet campaign gave the 
 expression of fighting at the last stand. The American campaign will provide the offensive flair 
 that most war games are known for. As an American ranger you will be charged with taking a new 
 beach from the heavily fortified and entrenched Germans. The American campaign will give the most 
 intense and prolonged fighting out of any of the campaigns.
  
  Most of the 10 missions that will be broken up by the three campaigns will be based upon foot soldier 
 fighting. During the British campaign you will get the chance to do some different type of fighting. 
 One mission will have you based entirely as part of a tank crew fighting against the Germans armored 
 division. The British campaign will also treat you to a rail type shooting situation as you are 
 in a small armored car going through the streets of one of the major cities that will be populated 
 by the Germans. Each campaign has its memorable moments such as the Holding of Point du Hoc, or 
 repelling the massive German counterattack in the Soviet campaign.
  
  The multiplayer does not give anything that you would call outstanding or unique, except for the 
 headquarters mode. In this mode the each time is trying to control and set up a HQ to gain points, 
 while it is the objective of the other team to take out that HQ and start gaining points for themselves. 
 Once, the defending team is wiped out (they cant respawn) the capture area is reset and both teams 
 begin a new battle. 
  
  The gameplay is one of the few things that any person who likes to play action games, plays Call 
 of Duty 2 for. The fighting is intense and can be overwhelming at times making you really feel 
 like a part of the battle. The AI is extremely aggressive, and if you are not careful they will 
 be able to surround you and take you out. The AI in houses will continue to spawn, as if the house 
 really is packed full of German troops. The AI also has absolutely no qualms to using grenades 
 in force, but luckily because of the grenade indicator you will be able to run away to fight another 
 day. The weapons that you use are extremely realistic and depending on the situation having the 
 right weapon for the time, will benefit you extremely well. The only qualm with the gameplay is 
 that no matter the weapon you have using the sights will make it almost exactly like a sniper rifle. 
 You will be sitting there from a long distance away and you will be able to pick off a German trooper 
 with one of the most inaccurate machine guns. Despite having the minor flaw with the accuracy at 
 long range, the gameplay is certainly worth talking about.
  
  The graphics in the game are very good in this version. Although some people might argue that you 
 will not be able to play the game without having some lag if you dont have the most recent or 
 fairly recent graphics card. Despite some debate on the graphical superiority, the game can be 
 played on older graphics card. Even with an older graphics card the graphics are extremely nice 
 to look at and the faces on you fellow troops will change from time to time displaying the variety 
 of men that you would be battling with if you would be out in the actual battlefield. The rule 
 of thumb with this and every other game, if you have a beefier graphics card then you will experience 
 a little bit better graphics than the user with the older graphics card.
  
  The sound of the game is by far the best part of the game. The music that queues in at the best 
 time for you to hear it just makes the situation feel that much more tense or that much more relaxing 
 depending on the situation. The sounds of your fellow troopers yelling about being ammo or needing 
 to reload adds a nice little touch to each of the very already intense action. Each of the guys 
 has a very unique sound, so unique that you will sometimes even be able to determine the weapon 
 that the enemy has with them. The sound is flat out exquisite and if you can you should get a decent 
 speaker system just to appreciate the sound that is being put out by this wonderful game. 
  
  The value of the game is something that could be debated. The campaign itself is about 15-20 
 hours depending on how long it takes you to do each of the missions. If you are person who skill 
 and experience in playing the war games you will be more in the 15 and under range. The majority 
 of the time that you will play with the game is the multiplayer. If you are fan of military games 
 and really enjoy playing multiplayer online, this game is definitely for you, even if it does not 
 provide anything that is out the ordinary or special. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: niko_uy
Rating: 8.7
Date: Dec 1, 2005 8:38 am PT
Review:  A very good all around game; very good graphics, good sound (although the phrases seems quite repetitve 
 in a VERY short games as this one) , the performance even on rather old video cards (e. g. ATI Radeon 
 9000) is extraordinary.
  Pro's
  * Each mission feels fair, and logic towards movies or real events they've been based on. 
  * 
 The team is cooperative, and really helps towards the outcome of the mission.
  * The mission at the bunkers over the hills, where the germans send crazy attack (air strikes, 
 mortars, and hundreds of germans) is extraordinary. I feel even better than the historic Omaha 
 Beach landing of the past game.
  
  Cons
  * Proliferation of ammo & weapons every where!!!! Specially with german "granatte".... it so easy 
 to pop a couple of granades into every building... you know you'll fin more on the next corner.
 
  * Genearl A. I. is good. One huge mistake though: The germans look sloppy and stupid in head to 
 head confrontations. When you take a bunker, for exapmple I wold expect them to cover them selves 
 up behind SOMETHING, and from there retaliate the attack. Instead of that, the'll just wait standing 
 up, right in front of the door!!!!!
  * The game is TOO d.... short!!!! Honestly, on the 2 medium levels of difficulty, you wont take 
 more than 7 hours to complete all missions. After paying $49 for this game, I feel I've been ripped 
 off. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: VonCreme10
Rating: 9.4
Date: Nov 30, 2005 5:28 pm PT
Review:  Activision's Call of Duty 2 was a big hype for some time. When I finally got my hands on it, I 
 was amazed at how great it was compared to the first. Everything is improved and better!
  
  Graphics: The graphics were simply amazing. The lighting looked fantastic: shining water, wet and 
 dirty gear, slick moist walls on a rainy day. The character models were a huge improvement, as 
 the faces were all different. You could see their 5 o'clock shadow and sweat! Also, the gun models 
 and objects were different and looked a whole bunch more realistic. I recommend this for people 
 that have good computers. It isn't the same experience if everything is on "low."
  
  Sound: Gunshots over your head, teamates yelling, Germans screaming, the rain splattering downl; 
 it was clearly amazing. With headphones, it takes you right to the action. The British voice acting 
 was pleasing as well as the American. Great work, and a big improvement from the first.
  
  Gameplay: This is what made me lo9ve this game. There are multiple paths you can take. If you want 
 to flank them, you can curl around a building and hit them from the side. You can now jump over 
 and out of things much easier with the command spacebar, although at some points, this was frustrating. 
 Also, you get the same feeling with the first one, that you are right in the middle of action. 
 On the D-Day level, there are hundreds of characters firing and shouting. It is simply amazing. 
 The AI was what caght me. It isn't good as some FPS but it was still pleasing. They will retreat 
 and find new firing positions consistently.
  
  This was a great game and was worth your money. The multiplayer is fantastic, and I think you should 
 buy the game to fully experience it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: doritos69
Rating: 9.7
Date: Nov 30, 2005 4:50 pm PT
Review:  If you love fps you need this game it is very nice in every category the sound is the best part 
 and how it makes a lot of things blow up. This game proves that the PC is better right now (if 
 you have a pretty good graph card) . Also i loved how the AI. works in the game they are very helpful 
 in telling you what is going on in the game. If you own a PC I want you to by this game because 
 no por sole show go with out playing this game. The On line is very good to but i don't want to 
 go into detail about but trust me it is fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KansasFF
Rating: 9.4
Date: Nov 30, 2005 2:25 pm PT
Review:  The sequal to Call of Duty definately had some high standards set for it. While the game does have 
 some flaws (still a prone slide, lack of Anti-Cheat support) , the game still delivers where it matters 
 most, action. The shotgun was a great addition to the game, and I was actually happy to see sprint 
 left off of COD2. If you loved the feel of Call of Duty but never really got into the expansion 
 United Offensive, this game is definately the right mix for you.
  
  The game has about the same learning curve as every other FPS. I spend about 20 hours a week playing 
 this game, and while it might seem like a lot, time sure does pass quickly! I don't play games 
 for the graphics, but this game sure is easy on the eyes. The sound could be a little better, but 
 the gun audios are an improvement from the first game. Overall, I would have to give this game 
 a 9.4. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rewsh
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 30, 2005 12:55 pm PT
Review:  minimum. We encourage you to try to get your review right the first time -- you may choose to edit 
 it later on, but by doing so, you will lose any positive feedback associated with the review. We 
 encourage you to write your review in a word processor or text editor, save it to your local disk, 
 then copy and paste it into the posting box below. minimum. We encourage you to try to get your 
 review right the first time -- you may choose to edit it later on, but by doing so, you will lose 
 any positive feedback associated with the review. We encourage you to write your review in a word 
 processor or text editor, save it to your local disk, then copy and paste it into the posting box 
 below. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cfrandolph
Rating: 6.2
Date: Nov 30, 2005 12:51 pm PT
Review:  As someone loved the first two, I greatly anticipated COD2. Really disappointed. The missions were 
 redundant and I got bored. It was less challenging to play than the originals and I'm not convinced 
 that I like the graphics better. It was not as difficult as the first series as I found it too 
 easy to stay alive. I will admit the the AI was cool on this one, but that was the only thing I 
 liked better.
  
  Also disappointing is the limited on-line play for those of us who like Domination or Base Assault 
 games. Many of us find Team Death match boring after a while. 
  
  Bottomline, if you want to play COD, go with the first and the United Offensive expansion rather 
 than buying this one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thetrudon
Rating: 9.8
Date: Nov 30, 2005 11:56 am PT
Review:  The problem here is expectation.
  
  If this wasnt a sequel, but the first CoD, then this would of been one of the best war games ever 
 made, just as i reckon, CoD is the best war game ever.
  If your a CoD fan like me.... buy this game and dont listen to the so called CoD lovers who are 
 really p***ed off with CoD2.
  Its the most INTENSE war game i've ever played, and for me, gameplay is so important!
  
  So 
 what if germans keep respawning if your in a middle of a closed in  
 to the gameplay!! That is what keeps the game flowing.
  Better then killing the 6 or so germans appearing over that wall that was programmed into the gamecode 
 and thats it.... no more people to shoot.
  
  Read people complain about the lack of vehicles to drive.... so what!! More fun to be on foot, running 
 frantically towards a building for shelter while being pelted with gunfire.
  
  People say this game is easy..... well put it on a higher difficulty then.
  These type of games 
 i always play it on a harder level for the first play, as on easy it would be just that.... easy!
 
  
  Overall, this game is excellent.
  
  The sound especially is awesome, graphics are great and gameplay is well.. i've said it already... INTENSE.
 
  The only slight downfall from CoD 1, which i do agree with reviewers is the multiplayer. 
  Not as great as the first one, and the fact that pavlov is not a multiplayer map is a real letdown 
 to me as it was the only map i ditched playing Counter-Strike: Source for. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gunnysarge01
Rating: 4.3
Date: Nov 30, 2005 5:29 am PT
Review:  I am a die-hard COD player so when COD2 came out of course I had to have it too. After playing 
 COD2 for a few weeks now, I have come to notice that little has changed with the new game vs. the 
 original COD. with the exception for better graphics, it is still the same game. Same levels with 
 a few added. You can drive just the tanks in SP mode only. You don't drive anything in MP. I am 
 abit amazed that after all of the hype, COD2 still remains as a better graphic COD for a bit more 
 $ at the store. It still has the same strategy as the first COD. I might add that the scope bobbing 
 is a nice realistic touch, though very annoying. In a short, I am dissapointed in Infinity Ward 
 for the first time as well as Activision for promoting a higher graphics version of COD. Hey guys, 
 how about driving or flying vehicles?? Just a thought. How about a 2006 Ford Pinto for $22,000.00?? 
 Might as well wait for Quake Wars... If it is ever released. Atleast it will be different..:) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BrGabriel
Rating: 8.1
Date: Nov 29, 2005 4:50 pm PT
Review:  Overall this is everything that you'd expect a sequel to the original Call of Duty to be. The best 
 bit of the game is the way that it creates an atmosphere - it really feels like you're fighting 
 your way through a North African Town or through the snowy ruins of Stalingrad. 
  
  Overall sound in the game really adds to the atmosphere - weapons all sound and behave reasonably, 
 vehicles look and sound right and the general chatter from your squad mates is judged about right 
 (although in the latter case can be a bit repetitive) . The only atmosphere breaker for me was in 
 the British missions (and I could be being picky hree) , when as a sergeant you are effectively 
 ordered to do things and addressed by your surname by private soldiers and when certain specific 
 characters are quite unkilleable. Although this was also a problem in CoD 1 I though that it was 
 particularly noticeable here. 
  
  Oh yes - and the voice acting isn't great, with the intensly annoying private mcgregor, who I suspect 
 is meant to sound scottish, actually sounding like he has some form of speach impediment.
  
  Further, the same issues raise their heads as is often the case in FPS games of this type. 
 Your squad mates really aren't good enough - their lack of support is often criminally poor and 
 their cpaacity to run across your field of fire increasingly irritating since "friendly fire is 
 not tolerated" and results in game rest to the last save point. The squad element of the game really 
 doesn't work that well and the AI (although not bad) substitutes uncanny accuracy and awareness 
 of your position (even if you are in the deepest cover of all, surprise surpise the germans seem 
 to be alsmost soley interested in focusing their fire on you) for inventive tactics, which in turn 
 makes intelligent tactics and positioning on the player's part, particularly at the harder levesl 
 of the game, a little pointless. Indeed it seems almost to encourage the manic running about that 
 is often seen in multiplayers rather than a more thoughtful tactical approach, which is odd for 
 a game of this type. This is particularly noticeable at Hard and Veteran levels of play, where 
 the difficulty level increase is achieved through increasing German fire to astonishingly accurate 
 levels - nothing original there then. Once of these days game designers are going to move on from 
 the one trick pony and increase difficulty by increasing AI performance and strategy, rather than 
 just through increased accuracy and lethality. 
  
  However, this is really nitpicking - CoD2 is really a very good game that, although nothing original, 
 will keep fans of the genre very happy . But nothing really new and rather surpisingly, many of 
 the annoying features of similar, less goo looking games in the genre. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lord_DoDo56
Rating: 9.3
Date: Nov 29, 2005 3:24 pm PT
Review:  Everyone knows that Call of Duty is an awesome game both Multi and Single player but is Call of 
 Duty 2 all it's cracked up to be?
  
  The singleplayer offers a wide variety of cool missions. I've been the singleplayer campaign more 
 than 4 times! But on the downside, the multiplayer has lots of bugs and causes you to lose interest 
 sometimes and go to another game for some multiplayer action. I'm sure a ptach will come out and 
 fix them but for now you might as well just wait for a price-drop and buy another game. Many show 
 hosts have said it to be like "The ending to 'Saving Private Ryan' as you mow down tons of Germans.
 
  
  Overall this game blew me away both on PC and Xbox 360. They both showed me what real WWII games 
 can really be like. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jpbreakdancer
Rating: 9.7
Date: Nov 29, 2005 3:03 pm PT
Review:  This game is the biggest perfection i have ever seen. The graphics are flawless, and i cant stop 
 druling over it. Its gameplay is alright but if you get good in multi-player then you know the 
 game play is awsome. The reason for no health meter, i could care less cause its pretty realistic. 
 New variety of guns also, and teams which makes everything more interesting. The Sound is sexy, 
 because you can hear every single thing that goes on in the game. For the 50 dollars i payed for 
 it, it was well worth it. The games level of intensity and fun, is amazingly addictive. The single 
 player is not my favorite, but it is exciting, and more fun then the first. The multi-player will 
 blow you away. I love this game, and if your a serious gamer, you will too! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cantisan
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 29, 2005 12:44 pm PT
Review:  Call of Duty 2 is a waste of time, only graphic was improved and some game play, but all feature 
 that was implemented with CS United Ofensive pack was removed ! There are no Tanks, no Jeeps, no 
 sprint ! 
  Call of Duty 2 is a waste of time, only graphic was improved and some game play, but all feature 
 that was implemented with CS United Ofensive pack was removed ! There are no Tanks, no Jeeps, no 
 sprint ! 
  Call of Duty 2 is a waste of time, only graphic was improved and some game play, but all feature 
 that was implemented with CS United Ofensive pack was removed ! There are no Tanks, no Jeeps, no 
 sprint ! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xdancexyayxnayx
Rating: 8.9
Date: Nov 29, 2005 11:51 am PT
Review:  Ok first of all im going to say ALL of my reviews are writen when i COMPLETE a game and not before, 
 and from now on all my reviews will be writen in -/+ points.
  
  + Great Graphics (some say xbox 360 graphics are better but having seen this game on a xbox 360 
 and a top of range pc now i dont think so)
  + Great Controls (Controls handle very nice and camera is always in the right place)
  + Great 
 Physics (could'nt help but throw granades at every nazi i saw, just love seeing them fly in the 
 air)
  + Quiet a long game (don't get me wrong this games not a big game but compared to alot of 1st person 
 shooters its a big game)
  
  - Gameplay (i loved the first call of duty but if you did not then you will noy like this one)
 
  - Gameplay (don't get me wrong i love this game but in parts it is very similar to the first one 
 but with better graphics) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ariel_king
Rating: 9.9
Date: Nov 29, 2005 10:57 am PT
Review:  I played this game and boy did I feel good.
  
  Gameplay: You play as a soldier and you are playing a part in WW2 and you are trying to protect 
 your country from getting their butts kick. You have all the same things as the original game but 
 this time you have like 8 campagies. Each with an army you choose and each of them are very long.
 
  
  Graphics: Beautiful. Now that this game is played in a dvd rom and not on a cdrom, The players 
 look unbelivible, the areas are beautiful and the weapons are amazing.
  
  Sound: You get this WW sound that sounds beautiful. The weapons sound nice but their aren't the 
 best out there.
  
  Value: You can play for hours and hours trying to finish each campain in the hardest difficultys. 
 I forgot to mension that there is an online feature in this game that is beautiful and it can last 
 forever.
  
  Reviewer's tilt: Overall this is a beautiful WW2 game and you should definitely buy this game at 
 all cost. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: k3lv
Rating: 9.6
Date: Nov 29, 2005 9:33 am PT
Review:  worth every cent paid. Anticipated the PC release, wow... lost of words while playing this game. 
 Graphics are exhilierating, even set at lower levels they look awesome. Gameplay is great. Actually 
 great would be an understatement. I've only played about an hour of it, annoyed of the "help" po-ups 
 that come across the screen making it hard to look at times, but I'm sure they'll go away as I 
 progress. The sound engine, astonishing, every sound every detail is almost perfected. Story-wise 
 it could of developed more, missing cutscenes or something. But once again, it is a WWII game, 
 and I don't expect them to change history.
  
  All in all, COD2 = worth the wait, worth the pay, worth the space, worth the time, insane game.
 
  
  2006 Game of the year? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Juul_Thijs
Rating: 9.4
Date: Nov 29, 2005 4:30 am PT
Review:  Great shooter period. One of the best 
  Graphics are pretty awesome and hold up well even for crappy comps. Gameplay wont chug unless your 
 pushing your card or there is alot of smoke on the screen... Gameplay is similar but MP is more 
 team based and fun. Alot more user friendly, new gun models looks awesome... good stuff... sound 
 is mind blowingly sweet... yeah... this game is cool
  
  I think to a degree that the SP is what truely shines because tyhe MP can get a little shallow 
 after awhile but i still enjoy it. Maybe not as good as Day of defeats MP but the SP is really 
 intense. But with the SP you may get a couple FPS issues, not usually a huge thing for CoD2
  
  You dont need a greta comp so i recommend you get it... even if you hate CoD... i demand you 
 get it
  
  why arent you getting it
  
  go get it
  
  now 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: hornfan
Rating: 8.9
Date: Nov 28, 2005 10:56 pm PT
Review:  Finally decided to go out and buy this game after contemplating on whether or not I should, and... wow, 
 I'm glad I did. I've always been a sucker for FPS's and especially historical ones. This game really 
 makes your feel like you're there. You can almost smell the gunpowder and smoke, honestly. There's 
 a few parts in this game where I was nearly out of my seat playing b/c I was so engrossed with 
 it. 
  
  The graphics are excellent if you ask me (the snow on the russian lvls looks so realistic) . The 
 sound... well, if you have a good speaker set up you will be amazed... the gunfire, the shouts of 
 your comrades and enemies, the score, breathtaking. The gameplay is immersive and fun (can't explain 
 the experience of defending against the massive troops running at you) . Only gripes is that I hate 
 the parts where you have a single path to take in between stuff and the way the guys die sometimes. 
 I haven't played the multiplayer yet, but I'm sure it's good. Get this game..... trust me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Paulie014014
Rating: 9.1
Date: Nov 28, 2005 10:45 pm PT
Review:  Call of Duty 2 is set during world war 2. It takes you through a bunch of missions using Soviet 
 forces, British army and the U. S. army. 
  
  What I found while playing this game is that the sounds are definately the best part of this game. 
 You really do feel as though you are in an actual war with the immersive sound. The graphics aren't 
 the best, but still quite good in some areas.
  
  The game itself has some solid gameplay, but nothing really revolutionary.
  Overall its a fun 
 game to play, and to me that is the defining factor of a game that will make it memorable. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Squall1991
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 28, 2005 3:16 pm PT
Review:  Graphics are pretty awesome and hold up well even for crappy comps. Gameplay wont chug unless your 
 pushing your card or there is alot of smoke on the screen... Gameplay is similar but MP is more 
 team based and fun. Alot more user friendly, new gun models looks awesome... good stuff... sound 
 is mind blowingly sweet... yeah... this game is cool
  
  I think to a degree that the SP is what truely shines because tyhe MP can get a little shallow 
 after awhile but i still enjoy it. Maybe not as good as Day of defeats MP but the SP is really 
 intense. But with the SP you may get a couple FPS issues, not usually a huge thing for CoD2
  
  You dont need a greta comp so i recommend you get it... even if you hate CoD... i demand you 
 get it
  
  why arent you getting it
  
  go get it
  
  now 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BraBoAMT
Rating: 6.1
Date: Nov 28, 2005 12:06 pm PT
Review:  It's a very good game, graphically speaking, but it does not have that much substance. It is very 
 much like the first one but with improved graphics and game play details.
  
  The story is the same as the first one, although the action improved in a sense that the player 
 gets to play different parts of the action alternately instead of going from one to the other.
 
  
  If you love the first one, than this is an obvious choice for you. If you are not that enthusiastic 
 about games about this theme, then you should just rent the game, if you are curious enough. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Thereisnotri
Rating: 9.4
Date: Nov 28, 2005 9:29 am PT
Review:  Call of Duty was my favourtie WWII shooter until this - the sequel is just great. I'm not that 
 far in yet, but already totally engrossed. The graphics are significantly better than the original, 
 but you don't notice - the graphics are good enough to be pretty and do the job at a good level 
 of detail without distracting you from the gameplay. COD2 loses the feeling of linearity that the 
 first game had - it is still linear, but the environments are so much bigger and unless you are 
 fighting through bunkers give you enough options of how to approach a target and achieve an objective 
 that it doesn't feel linear. The new health system is great - no more artificial than trying to 
 find health packs and it doesn't distract from the gameplay, plus on the hardest setting, it is 
 still quite brutal! Equally the save system is effortless - no more quick saves, you just keep 
 playing and don't notice the lack of stopping to save before you round a corner.
  
  Best moment so far is definitely the defence of the town in the first British mission - firstly 
 trying to prevent the waves of German infantry entering the town centre - that took a while to 
 get right and then calling in artillery. The sheer number of enemies attacking and the size of 
 the environment was simply staggering. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JJMikhail
Rating: 8.3
Date: Nov 28, 2005 8:04 am PT
Review:  Well, to say that the first Call of Duty was intense, the next one so intensive that it would make 
 the first game look panzy and thats not to say that the first one was bad believe me it was brilliant.
 
  
  Call of Duty gives an opportunity for you to experience battling with the A. I., they Germans are 
 far more intelligent, they use cover a lot more and hold their bases as if its till the last man. 
 Vastly improved Grenades, when they near you ought to run or be blown to pieces.
  
  However, like all games, it has a few hitches but these are not bad ones. One is the chance to 
 recover everytime you are, I would like to put it as the 'red zone' , where its slower to move 
 and all but a whistle in your ears for a short period of time. Yes, there is no health bar. This 
 means that recovery, providing you do it properly, works to your advantage. It might be an advantage 
 but I didnt realise that you could take a million bullets and still complete the level without 
 dying once! 
  
  Apart from this minor 'hazard', I would still put this game beyond most wargames that have failed 
 to past the 'intensity test'. Not as real as Operation Flashpoint but more good looking and more 
 intense, it has that substance. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NagaSin
Rating: 8.9
Date: Nov 28, 2005 6:43 am PT
Review:  For me, buying CoD2 was a no-brainer since I played CoD and CoD: UO to death. My gaming rig (Athlon 
 FX-55, Radeon X850 XT, 2 GB, Raptors) has enough juice to run with max graphics options so after 
 setting them and my mouse button 4 and 5, it was time for some fun!
  
  The first improvement I noticed is that there are no longer those silly "med kits" found in the 
 original CoD (regardless of difficulty setting) . Now when you are receiving damage, the screen 
 gets redder with severity. Health automatically restores if you can find cover before you are killed. 
 VETERAN difficulty all the way!
  
  CoD2 also got rid of the game saving necessity. It is done for you at key points during a mission. 
 I think this improves gameplay a lot because you no longer have to worry about saving the game 
 after each pitched battle.
  
  The AI of enemy soldiers is also decisively more aggressive. They will charge, flank and grenade 
 you to death if you are holed up for any amount of time. This makes for a more realistic feel and 
 keeps the adrenaline going. You will spend a lot of time running for your life when you see the 
 grenade threat warning on your screen. My only complaint is that you can't pick up enemy thrown 
 grenades. I have been killed numerous times when I threw a grenade at the enemy, dove for cover, 
 only to have it tossed right back at me. UNFAIR!
  
  The sound effects are great. Enemy and friendly taunts can be downright hilarious at times... "Hitler 
 plays with dolls!"
  
  Overall, this game is a must-have if you are into WW2 shooters. The graphics, while much improved, 
 can still use some work. Bring on an expansion set - I am ready!
  
  BTW, my favorite weapon is still the MP44. I tend to go Rambo when armed with one!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: slash83_mus
Rating: 9.3
Date: Nov 27, 2005 11:53 pm PT
Review:  I have always been a huge Medal of Honor fan. Then came the game that was supposed to beat MoH: 
 Call of Duty. 
  
  Yes, it was a good game, well worth a 7,5. But it just wasn't as good as they said. I tried United 
 Offensive as well which had some improvements, but it still didn't feel as atmospheric as Medal 
 of Honor. The big plus was the fact it wasn't a rambo-shooter; you could rely upon dozens of fellow-soldiers 
 which, for me, made the game stand out above the average shooter.
  
  Then came the first demo for CoD 2. Wow, what an improvement! It was pretty much the same but somehow 
 much, much better. 
  
  So, I decided to buy it. The first level blew me from my seat, really. 
  
  The Story:
  
 
  You play 4 different soldiers from 3 different allied nations. You are taken to some of the better 
 known WW2-campaigns: Moscow, Stalingrad, Africa, Normandy and Germany. That's just about the whole 
 story, but hey, it's a wargame.
  
  The Graphics:
  
  Even though the game uses the same, old engine used in the original Cod, the developers managed 
 to poor the maximal amount of detail out of it. It is absolutely amazing what this old little engine 
 can put on your screen. The atmosphere is amazing, the smoke and explosions are some of the best 
 I've seen so far and the soldier's faces are very realistic. Finally they managed to give just 
 about every soldier a different face: blonde, brown, shaven, bearded, half-shaven, a mustache, 
 big nose, small nose, yes, they even have fat guys. Just look at your teammates and (dead) enemies. 
 You'll see what I mean.
  
  The Sound:
  
  The sound effects are very good, the score wouldn't misfit in a Spielberg movie, but the conversations 
 and shouts are some of the best i've ever heard in a game. They are funny, various, intelligent 
 and make you feel you are participating in a real battle (it just adds up to the already great 
 atmosphere) . Germans shout things like "Hier, ein Geschenk von der deutschen Armee" (Here, a present 
 from the German army!) or "Hey Commie, ich hab' etwas fr dich!" (Hey Commy [communist] , I've got 
 something for ya!) when they throw a grenade, they make fun of your Queen (when playing the british 
 campain) or Stalin, they (and your teammates) whout for covering fire, smoke-grenades, the screaming 
 makes you feel sorry for them... and I could go on and on and on...
  
  The Gameplay:
  
  Gameplay is absolutely fantastic. Even though it's a bit been-there-done-that, the game adds some 
 things that makes CoD2 stand out above almost any other WW2-shooter. First of all it isn't as liniair 
 as it's predecessor. Yes, ofcourse some roads are blocked with trucks and barbed wire, but the 
 levels are huge and often offer several ways to attack the enemy. You can outflank them (which 
 they will notice, warn eachother and set up defenses unless you're quick enough to prevent them 
 to do so) , use smoke-grenades to block their view, eliminate the better part of their defenses 
 and rush in to finish them off and attack the others in the rear. Or, you could jump in head-first, 
 but this will almost certainly get you killed. 
  Throw a grenade at them and they will try (and often manage) to throw it back. If you are indecisive 
 for too long, they will counter-attack while leaving behind some defenders. Their fire can be murderous 
 and sometimes mediocre. They all vary in shooting-capability which again adds up to the reality. 
 Furthermore, the weapons effect are truly different and realistic as they should be, unlike many 
 other games. A german firing a K98 will be slow but accurate, A german shooting an MP40 will lay 
 down covering fire but will have a hard time hitting you at greater disctances and a German with 
 a Stg44 (or MP44) will be very accurate, hard-hitting and fast-shooting even at long ranges. 
 
  
  Performance:
  
  Here comes the real downside to the game (well, for fanatics, that is) . You simply need a top-of-the-bill 
 system to make the game run smoothly on high or highest settings. You will need at least a P4 3,0Ghz 
 / Amd Athlon64 3000+, 1gb of ram (dual channel) and at least a GeForce 6800- or Ati X8**-series 
 to get a decent framerate at a decent resolution. My system, a Amd Athlon 64 3000+ (s939, Venice) , 
 1024mb-ram and a GeForce 6800le just couldn't do the job. I had to lower the settings. And I play 
 games like F. E. A. R. and Halo 2 on high settings @ 1280x1024...
  
  Historical Accuracy:
  
  The developers did a good job on that. Weapons are lifelike copies, uniforms are, as far as 
 the engine allows it, quite accurate, the weapon's range, stopping-power and accuracy are absolutely 
 closer to their real-life brothers than in any other ww2-game and the levels are very accurately 
 designed. What isn't correct:
  
  - Like in most games, weapons don't seem to be bound to year of introduction in the game. In Moscow 
 (1941) the germans use the Gewehr43 (introduced first in '43) and the Stg44 (MP44) can be found 
 in Tunesia ('43) while it was introduced in 1944. 
  
  - The german tanks in the British tank-levels are Pz. Kpfw. II's, light reconnaissance tanks armed 
 with a 20mm light cannon (absolutely useless againgst tanks) . Still, the commander shouts german 
 tanks have superior guns capable of destroying tanks well before they can even hope to counter-fire. 
 This is true, but not for the Pz. Kpfw. II (or III for that matter) . The IV, V (Panther) and VI 
 (Tiger) could out-gun the allied tanks. 
  
  Conclusion:
  
  Like I said above: Great game, historically accurate (for the most part) , great atmosphere, superb 
 sound and graphics... absolutely worth your money.
  
  Hints/Tips:
  
  - For the performance: If the game stutters on high or even low settings, set the rendering to 
 Direct X 7 instead of Auto/Direct X 9. By doing so, you will get a lot of the game's beauty on 
 high resolution and all options turned to max even on older systems. I can guarantee this will 
 solve your problems (unless you have a true high-end system ofcourse) . It made it possible for 
 me to play at 1280x1024 and max detail (AA on 4) .
  
  - For the game itself:
  
  SET DIFFICULTY TO HARDENED !!
  
  Easy and normal are just... too easy. Trust me, it will decimate 
 the game's true experiences. On Hardened you will really have to fight instead of just aim a bit 
 and click fast. Really, trust me on this.
  
  Oh yeah: Flank 'em and Smoke 'em whenever you can and try to capture the Gewehr43 and the MP44. 
 They are the best weapons available (both german) and you'll hardly ever run out of ammo. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Barabajagal
Rating: 6
Date: Nov 27, 2005 10:16 pm PT
Review:  The original Call of Duty is one of the few games I've played that actually held my attention long 
 enough to play to the very end.
  
  Unfortunately I'm not nearly as impressed with COD2. It's all been done before in COD. Along a 
 linear battlefield, you attack, are counterattacked, and then you re-counterattack. Sure there 
 are moments of intense and choatic fighting, but you know how the battle is going to turn out if 
 you just hold your ground or keep pressing foward the attack. It's nothing new. 
  
  Another area of disappointment is how the game runs on the PC. I have a Pent IV 2.53GHz, Radeon 
 9800pro, 768-megs of ram, and a Sound Blaster sound card. After installing the game, my detected 
 optimal graphic settings was 640x480. I haven't played at that resolution since Half-Life. I tried 
 to run the game at 1024x768 with the goodies turned off. My FPS were so low as to make the game 
 unplayable. Even at a resolution of 800x600, the game dogged in places. I find this unacceptable 
 since my machine (while not state-of-the-art) is well beyond the stated minimum specs. 
  
  The music and sound are great as they were in the original game. Playing with the keyboard/mouse 
 is intuitive. Game saves are automatic and occur at the end of a chapter or just before a big battle. 
 
  
  I wanted more from this game than what was delivered. I wanted to be WOWed by the graphics and 
 gameplay that was less linear. There are better games out there for your $50.00. I'd recommend 
 shopping around or wait for this one to hit the bargain bin in about 3 months.
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: warvstar
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 27, 2005 8:27 pm PT
Review:  It is a little easy, in my first 30 minutes I was able to beat the hardest difficulty with only 
 two deaths (one was my own grenade) .
  Overall I say this game is Great! Very Fun. I would suggest people play the demo and decide for 
 them selves.
  
  The graphics are good for this type of game, although not the best I have seen. The sound really 
 is an awesome part of this game. The gameplay is where it gets all the points. The Value for this 
 game is incredible. The overall value of this game is a 10 out of 10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: warrenton
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 27, 2005 6:49 pm PT
Review:  So Call of Duty is back, this time its duex, and i have to say hands down that this is the best 
 single player shooter ever created. It has to be the most imersive shooter as well. The graphics 
 and sound create this auroa of awsomeness that no one has ever created before. 2 this you need 
 to play this game are 5.1 surrond sound and a pitch black quiet room. From there you have the base 
 for the most fun you will ever have. This game is so immersive, that i found my self talking to 
 my self. things like "God dang You, you geinus Mcgragor" and "Jerrys at the six!" "potatoe masher!". 
 The charcters, well the ones that dont die really stick with you. The only beef that i have with 
 the immersiveness, is a graphical issue with the game, water looks like crap. Its Just blue flat 
 surface, not like ull be seeing alot of it, and some of it, like puddles are very scripted and 
 are semireflected (they look good) . SO rivers and the sea will look bad. SOund is the best ive heard 
 for most games.
  
  The single payer is the bomb, but what about the multiplayer. Well that rox too. but that is more 
 of how you make it. overall this game is a must buy.
  
  only beef is the water and semi-short single player experince. ( one hardest isnt noticable.) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sk8r196
Rating: 9.3
Date: Nov 27, 2005 11:05 am PT
Review:  The very first Call of Duty was a benchmark for First Person Shooters everywhere, it was the first 
 game to snatch up the top shelf from the likes of the original Half-Life. It wasn't your average 
 WWII Fps either, it didn't glorify the war at all, every soldier would have a name, a part to play 
 and a time to die. 
  
  Now with Call of Duty 2, all the nitty gritty of war is back like you've never seen it before! 
 The same brilliant formula has been applied to this exelent sequel.
  Three nations, American, British and how could we forget the Russians. All of the Campaigns are 
 based on real life events throughout WWII, ranging from beach landings, raids on artillery batteries 
 and fierce urban combat. Allot of the gameplay was looked over by real WWII veterans so Infinity 
 Ward could achive the 'real' feel of war. 
  
  The AI is much smarter this time around as well, you might think, 'Lets flank them!' to yourself, 
 but the enemy may of already stolen you idea and are flanking you! In the first Call of Duty you 
 could expect the enemy to be a little predictable, say if you saw an enemy duck behind some crates, 
 you might think 'oh lets just wait here until he re-emerges and we'll shoot him then!'. Good luck 
 on that, the enemy soldier you saw just then has probably gone off down an alley way and is now 
 behind you, I think you can guess what might happen next.
  
  You must buy this game, it has such lasting power, as did the original Call of Duty, when you finish 
 off with the single player, you can move onto the exelent multi-player game provided you have a 
 good Internet Connection.
  
  Your games collection is nothing without it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: boost291
Rating: 9.7
Date: Nov 27, 2005 1:51 am PT
Review:  This game is superb, from the stunning graphics too the brilliant battle-sounds and diverse story 
 line, Call of Duty 2 is a must have for all gamers. 
  Call of Duty 2 far succeeds from its predeccessor and is a masterpiece.
  The learning curve in 
 this game is very good, and difficulty's range from novice to veteran.
  The Graphics in this game are stunning and have incredible depth.
  The Sound is amazing with 
 an awesome sound track and realistic battle sounds.
  The Gameplay is immerse and realistic which will keep you playing again and again for months, even 
 years to come. 
  The multiplayer also adds to the multiplayer as you can take the battle to the internet and LAN. 
 Call of Duty 2 is a must have!
  
  Buy Call of Duty 2 NOW!
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: gangsta_whizz
Rating: 9.8
Date: Nov 26, 2005 11:01 pm PT
Review:  This game is amazing. The single player is captivating, while the multiplayer is a piece of art.
 
  
  If it is not engraved in your head, I'll tell you again:
  
  This game is amazing. The single player is captivating, while the multiplayer is a piece of art.
 
  
  This game is amazing. The single player is captivating, while the multiplayer is a piece of art.
 
  
  This game is amazing. The single player is captivating, while the multiplayer is a piece of art.
 
  
  This game is amazing. The single player is captivating, while the multiplayer is a piece of art.
 
  
  This game is amazing. The single player is captivating, while the multiplayer is a piece of art.
 
  
  This game is amazing. The single player is captivating, while the multiplayer is a piece of art.
 
  This game is amazing. The single player is captivating, while the multiplayer is a piece of art.
 
  
  This game is amazing. The single player is captivating, while the multiplayer is a piece of art.
 
  
  This game is amazing. The single player is captivating, while the multiplayer is a piece of art.
 
  
  bb
  
  This game is amazing. The single player is captivating, while the multiplayer is a piece of art.
 
  
  v This game is amazing. The single player is captivating, while the multiplayer is a piece of art. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Shrade12
Rating: 9.2
Date: Nov 26, 2005 2:09 pm PT
Review:  Really freakin good, play the multiplayer... it's just as cinematic as the single player and 100x 
 as intense. Graphics are amazing! The Jerries have pretty funny looking goggles too that make them 
 totally fun to shoot. Every gun has its own purpose, none are useless. Being able to jump out of 
 windows and over walls is the most tactically ingenious aspect of this game. When in doubt, jump 
 out the window! Buy it now! Go right now and buy it before someone else does. 
  DONT BUY IT FOR A CONSOLE, THIS IS A PC TITLE!!!!!!!!!!
  my review is too short so i need to 
 add in extra words right here so here it goes im wasting words to i get to 100 words blah blah 
 wasting time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gamezilla57
Rating: 9.7
Date: Nov 26, 2005 1:28 pm PT
Review:  Call of Duty 2 is one of the best games I have played this year period! It is an awesome experience 
 that keeps you contstantly on the edge of your seat. There is barely anytime at all to think in 
 Call of Duty 2, you're constantly in huge firefights that will probably make the calmest person 
 nervous. Call of Duty 2 is a game that totally buries the Medal of Honor series with it's awesome 
 gameplay. The Medal of Honor series use to be my favorite WW ll shooting series ever. I would tell 
 anyone that Medal of Honor had Call of Duty beat any day but that was before I played this and 
 now that I look back, I was extremely wrong in what I said. Call of Duty 2 is just extremely intense, 
 you actually feel like you are there fighting! The sound in this game is amazing, from bullets 
 whizzing through the air to loud explosions, this game rocks in the sound department. I was contantly 
 blown away at how well they did with the sound in this game, it just gets you so into the game. 
 The voiceovers are great and are very realistic, your team is always mocking the enemies and it 
 really sounds like you're there. This game isn't just great in the sound department, it also shines 
 in graphics. If your PC can handle this game with everything on high, then you need to get the 
 game even if you're sick of WW ll shooters. Everything looks so real! Your teammates, the environment, 
 and whatever you can think of, it's all detailed. This game truly looks next gen. Even your squad 
 members clothing is detailed! The control is awesome and it can be tweaked to your liking. I liked 
 some of the things Call of Duty 2 let you do like peaking around corners and staring down the barrel 
 of the gun..... I know it's been done before but I think it works great with this game. The place 
 where Call of Duty 2 lacks is the value and it's still a game you'll be playing for a while but 
 you won't be playing over and over and over again. As good as the single-player is, it's still 
 way to short. It takes about 7 hours to beat and you might want to play a couple levels over again 
 but thats about it. There are no unlockables which is is disappointing and the only thing thats 
 going to keep people playing is it's multiplayer which is great. Other than that one complaint, 
 Call of Duty 2 is a must have for anyone that has a PC they can play it on. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Flak-1
Rating: 9.1
Date: Nov 26, 2005 7:35 am PT
Review:  This single player game is awsome, the graphics are better than the first COD. The sound is also 
 improved greatly, the music score brings the heat it was so matched to the surroundings. I loved 
 playing this game I wish it were longer though, I finished it it less the a day, set at max difficult 
 it took me 2 days. The biggest problem I found with the game was the multi player, It offered NO 
 vehicle upon release, that I couldnt get cause the first COD had that at release. Also the multi 
 player game doesnt seem to run as smooth as COD 1, Hackers found their way easily to this game, 
 I saw hacks being used at the demo release. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: es_ist_leichzei
Rating: 7.3
Date: Nov 25, 2005 11:24 pm PT
Review:  I beat the game in 2 days. Wow... and I did'nt play all day. At most this game has 10 hours of 
 play. For any somewhat exsperienced FPS player, you will find the AI to be easy beaten by pure 
 aggression. The gameplay limits strategic decision by pushing you through a set line of events. 
 As memerable as it may be, I feel game designers have pushed the WWII FPS beyond its gamers patience. 
 But the game is simply stunning and is revolutionary in its simulated intensity. 
  The multiplayer also lacks variety, becomes very redundant in a short time. Take Site, camp, suppress 
 fire, and circle. Although with that logic I could say its 'Point click'. (Take that FPS Dudes) . 
 Dont get me wrong I loved this game. But I can hardly recommend it for 40 bucks because of its 
 short gameplay and serious lack of Value. Id wait for the bargain bin. Since the game just came 
 out, that will be a while. Well I guess I'm back to Battlefield 2. GG ;) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Pleaz88
Rating: 8.2
Date: Nov 25, 2005 3:52 pm PT
Review:  Fantcy fafilling... Grate 9 outta 10 Not as nicely perfected as call of duty 1 tho i have never 
 expereninced online play.. its seems to have alot of anyoing flaus such as glicths in multiple killing... and 
 the constan redickuless heavey tank fire pissis u off a bit but makes it all the better when u 
 blow em to **** *_* i gusse i have to have 100 word's so .... ll cool j... ll cool j.... R kelly!.... R 
 kelly R kelly R kelly.... rr cool j....... Michle jackson...... should be a camander in the game.... rr 
 cool jay.... rr cool jay R KELLY PISS ON ME! GOD DANM 100 WORDS  
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: psychadelic1000
Rating: 9.4
Date: Nov 24, 2005 10:22 pm PT
Review:  Now I will tell you that you might want to have a fairly good computer to play this game, as it 
 is very graphically enhanced. Now that that is out of the way, this game is incredible. People 
 are complaining that is too linear and too repetative, its COD, thats what COD is. The multiplayer 
 is still the best in the business, and I believe that it is finally going to get the credit the 
 entire series deserves.
  
  As far as levels go, if you are a COD 1 fan, then you will enjoy the levels as it is not going 
 to be foreign ground. If you were not particularly fond of the first COD, then they probably fixed 
 your problem with the second installment 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nely_nelson
Rating: 8.6
Date: Nov 24, 2005 8:56 pm PT
Review:  If you can desribe this game in one word i would say that word would be...
  INTENSE!!! The WW2 gener is cluttered but in that clutter it would be a shame if you missed this 
 game. This is mostly an all action shooter with not much of a story line. If you want more of a 
 tactical ww2 shooter i would recoment Brothers in Arms: Earned in blood. The multiplayer is great. 
 It would be greater with a patch or two though. One thing that impressed me was when you are behind 
 a wall and there is a german sniper shooting at you and your comrades though a window. One soldier 
 crouches and takes of his helmet. He puts his helmet onto the end of his gun and hangs it out of 
 the side of the wall so the sniper can see it. 3 seconds later a bullet hits the helmet and you 
 now know where the sniper is. It has a couple of kind-of minigames. Like one of your comrades "pvt 
 Mcgregor" starts driving an almost apc and you are in the back manning the gun. One problem with 
 that though was that it took me about 5 mineuts to figure out that i wasn't driving. If you like 
 ww2 shooters i recomend that you don't skip the one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: antibody007
Rating: 6.7
Date: Nov 24, 2005 4:16 pm PT
Review:  COD2 seems designed for the console market. The graphics are well done, and the AI seems mainly 
 scripted. However, after playing BF2 this feels very stilted and although the scenarios are intense, 
 as it says on the box, like the dialog it gets very reptitive. The maps are very limited in size 
 and so there's no opportunity to be imaginitive in how to overcome obstacles which have to be completed 
 in a fixed sequential order. Its definately oriented to the younger market or maybe for someone 
 who recently had a labotomy. OK the 3D cards have been out for a while now, let's see developers 
 now be more imaginitive in future game design, and in multiplayer games there should be more ways 
 of interacting with other players than just simple dialog, personally I'm getting a little tired 
 of this sort of stuff particularly when it costs over $50.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: zux2000
Rating: 5
Date: Nov 24, 2005 12:15 pm PT
Review:  I started to play the game on the release date, and finished it two days after... The game is absolute 
 to short.
  By the way:
  I never played the first CoD, but that doesn't matter: 
  It took me 3 seconds to learn the style and how to do things in the game.
  
  CoD2 valuation:
 
  It's a good fps game, -With much different maps like snow, sun, day, night and rain etc. But the 
 graphic is far away so good for example that Doom 3 has. 
  And it could been much smarter AI and some more different missions... And like I said, it's for 
 short! 
  
  It's not a great game, but it's good. But's worth playing!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Genesys_4
Rating: 9.3
Date: Nov 24, 2005 3:59 am PT
Review:  oh, yeah CoD2. we've been waiting for this for quite a time and it did live to its expectation. 
 when I first played CoD, it was about 3 to 4 months b4 CoD2 was released. well actually, got hooked 
 up when I saw the trailer for CoD2 on E3 so I decided to play it and give it a try and whoa, I 
 was attracted to it. the sense and the tense in the battlefield gave me quite a punch and here 
 I was stuck with the game. I maxed out all perfomance on CoD n got more than I expected. I tried 
 to do it on CoD2 but just can't. They did major improvements (on graphics, especially) on CoD2 and 
 even in the sound department. Coz of that it delivers very much a punch and once again u've been 
 thrown out into the battlefield. Frankly, this time around they don't use health system. Personally, 
 it's kinda revolution (especially in FPS) and it's nice, though, I can't tell which is nicer (this 
 system or health system) . I personally recommend this to any FPS fans and of coz I emphasize on 
 ur all WWII fans (I'm not one though) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nuseir
Rating: 9.6
Date: Nov 24, 2005 12:32 am PT
Review:  great game except for that horrible auto save system, I played the game on hardend, and finished 
 it in about 30 hours, it would have taken a lot less time if it was on manual save like the previous 
 games for example in the silo mission, I sniped a couple of german soldiers befor being given the 
 mission objective and after the the first save on the silo. I was without ammo and as soon as I 
 started to reload I was blown away, I TRIED SO MANY TIMES AND TOOK AN HOURE BUT NO USE, so I restarted 
 the level on hardend again from the begining, and when reached the top of the silo started sniping 
 the mortar tems befor given the objective and this way I was able to finish the mission, also it 
 is mostly shooting and ducking, unlike the expantion of the first game where the player was a gunner 
 in an airplane, or a gunboar, which is a good divervion from just shooting all the time, but I must 
 admit the tank missions were fun but very short. still play it people it is addictive. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vNoti
Rating: 9.8
Date: Nov 23, 2005 5:38 pm PT
Review:  what can i say about this game
  graphic - amazing. sound - good (i have headphone) game play - the best..
  but this is not what 
 i want to wrote, i want to write about the game play.
  in the game u will notice that u agast very fast to game and start in the action you will also 
 notice on your team, they will help you most of the time (i know it's a team game) but sometime 
 you will need to do all the things.
  also the AI of the enemy is not the best but they will give you hard time,
  the game will alwayes 
 keep you in intense you wont will be able to stop sometime and you want to continue.
  try it you wont get bord from it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: The_Daw
Rating: 9.6
Date: Nov 23, 2005 12:46 pm PT
Review:  Or at least thats what the difficulty level told me. Ok first things first: I had never played 
 a call of duty game before this game. After I first installed it I booted it up and was excited 
 because of the opening movie. I started a new game and instantly chose the veteran difficulty level. The 
 game started and I instantly felt like I was a Russian soldier. The captain stood speaking as the 
 men around me got moving. The little training piece helps you get to grips with the control system 
 with ease. I learned how to fire my weapon and melee but I had the most fun with the grenades. 
 I walked up to take a look at stockpile only to see a bath of potatoes. I finished the training 
 piece and started to throw potatoes at the captian but I was cut short. A comrade came telling 
 us they had captured a German. I followed the captain to the building to where they were interrogating 
 the German soldier. After discovering that men were on the way I got going with my fellow soldiers.
 
  
  When I first stepped out into my first battle I was psyched up and ready but was killed instantly, what 
 happened? I read the quote that came up on the screen and was ready to restart. It restarted instantly 
 no reloading the whole level just instantly dropped straight back into the action. This is where 
 I discovered the two new features the health system and the grenade indicator.
  
  I ran out to start shooting killed a few but took a few bullets, the screen started to flash and 
 told me to get to cover, this is how I learned the new health system. I ran behind a wall and waited 
 to heal when I saw a little grenade with an arrow, I realised just in time that it was telling 
 me where the grenades where. I ran. But I was hit by machine gun and killed again.
  That was my first twenty minutes of play and set me up to what would become a thrilling experience. Sniping 
 Germans, on-rail shooting sections and driving tanks.
  
  If you play this game you wont want it to end as it is a thrilling experience from the beginning 
 right down to the end. But it dosen't have to as this game comes packed with an excellent multi-player 
 game. Different game modes keep the gameplay fresh and I personally love the killcam.
  
  This game is amazing if you are anyway interested in WW2 or FPS you need to get this game in. It 
 is a worthwhile purchase that never has to end thanks to it's online play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xicomacho
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 23, 2005 11:37 am PT
Review:  this game is very intesive, amazing, realistc that is very hard to describe
  the war said by books sucks ,but with a 3d experience its more realistc. the people who fight in 
 that suffered very so this game demonstrs the suffering ,
  and terror in war.
  the graphics are very good except the target of your weapon i dont like it,
  the difficulty is 
 just right because some levels the cpu is stupid like a door 
  and sometimes the cpu is smart like enstein (if he went to war) .
  Its a game to spent 2 to 4 
 hours for day playing and the mutliplayer makes me feel that i am not alone.
  can be better
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: waswhatwer
Rating: 5.5
Date: Nov 23, 2005 9:57 am PT
Review:  I thought I'd wait until I made it through the game before I wrote a review because individual 
 level design is so important in games like this. CoD2 starts off pretty well in the Russian campaign, 
 with several tense scenes involving sniping and repelling German counterattacks. The British and 
 American campaigns, however, really highlight the main weakness of the game: there is no freedom 
 to choose your path through the game, look for ways to flank enemies, or use any kind of basic 
 strategy other then quick pointing and clicking. Its really like some carnival game where you shoot 
 little ducks that randomly pop up (but with really pretty graphics) . Several scenes were so annoying 
 I almost uninstalled the thing and put it on Ebay (where its going here shortly) . For example, 
 in the British campaign you man a .50 cal machine gun in an armored car and at one point turn down 
 a bad alleyway lined with German infantry with panzerschrecks. If you stay on the 50 the infantry 
 open up immediately and take you out - no matter how accurate you are (I'm playing it on the next 
 to highest setting) . If you switch to your Thompson they literally give you time to take them out 
 one at a time - how dumb is that? There are numerous other contrived situations that have similarly 
 inane setups. Even if you're going to force players to take set paths at least construct some fun 
 tactical situations that don't defy all sense of logic. Bottom line - great graphics, occasionally 
 tense, often mind-numbingly boring despite the fact that you're supposed to be in the middle of 
 Armageddon. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: deadmeat59
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 22, 2005 4:26 pm PT
Review:  alot of ww2 games are very similar. this games is great plays well looks and sounds very good if 
 you got a powerful system. thething that makes me mad is all ww2 games are remakes there all like 
 another game this 1 is similar 2 medal of honour. most world war 2 games are starting in 1942 i 
 wish 4 once there was agame when u used germans japanese and itallian not the allies and starts 
 i 1939 buti have seen very few if any that good thougt the hole war with 1 or more amrys. i love 
 this game online rules thesingel player is good to butwas a said befor remake. the gunss look and 
 sound very good and it shoots well its better on pc cus key bored and mouse are better then controoler. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Matt14500
Rating: 9.6
Date: Nov 22, 2005 1:19 pm PT
Review:  Call of Duty 2 is one of the best WWII shooters I've ever played. It is just amazing. The graphics 
 are very nice, the character models look realistic. When you fire a gun it also sounds very real 
 and the weapons are very, very fun to use. The voice acting is good. The sound is amazing, 10/10 
 for the sound. I haven't played the multiplayer but I have played the first four missions and they 
 are just plain fun. The first two missions are amazing. Even though the first mission is very easy 
 since it's more of a tutorial level to give you a chance to learn the ropes but it's still very 
 fun. The second level, oh my god, SO fun. The enemy AI can be very aggressive and hard sometimes. 
 This game has some difficult moments like in one level you have to bomb a tank and there are so 
 many Germans near the tank shooting at you while you starp dynamite on it. I also like that there's 
 no health meter in this game. When ever you get hurt, the sides of your vision get red and all 
 you have to do is take cover and rest for about 5 seconds and your good. Overall, this game is 
 a great WWII experience. If you're a FPS war fan, and if you have the right system requirments 
 on your PC, then you should get this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shermstix
Rating: 9.7
Date: Nov 22, 2005 11:35 am PT
Review:  I am stunned. No game before has felt as real and intense as this. Doom3 and Half-Life 2's graphics 
 just can't compete. Almost everything about this game is perfect. The lighting, the sounds, the 
 blood spatter; all amazing. Playing this game with a 5.1 surround sound setup makes you feel like 
 you are in the trenches. It is a very well made game with lots of neat touches like being able 
 to hold your breath while aiming the sniper rifle. The only issue thus far is the menu screen. 
 It seems to me that you need to have the in game resolution set to what your desktop resolution 
 is, otherwise everything is garbled. Hopefully it will be fixed in a patch. Otherwise this is a 
 flawless game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Unholy_Raven
Rating: 9.8
Date: Nov 22, 2005 8:36 am PT
Review:  I had this game for about a week before I actually got to play it, (I got it free with the purchase 
 of my 7800GT and I had to get a DVD-Rom) but when I did, words aren't enough. It sends chills through 
 you when playing it because it has such a real feel. Everything from something as small as the 
 grass to as major as the artillery, no other game can really compare in my opinion.
  
  The graphical detail of the surroundings is really quite breathtaking. The weather aspects are 
 an excellent touch and look about as real as if you were to look out your window on a snowy or 
 rainy day. The water textures ranging from the waves to the splashes are phenomenal; they are like 
 nothing I've ever seen in a game before. The soldiers were also quite nice, but...... their facial 
 features could have been a bit more detailed and the eyes a bit less beady looking. Some of the 
 movements were a bit miscalculates as well, but that doesn't happen that much at all.
  
  Particle detail in this game is perfect really. Everything from grenade explosions to the smallest 
 hand gun fire is very well done. The holes in the walls and pipes, especially the pipes, were nice. 
 When I first got the part where you have to crawl through the pipes, I wasn't expecting to see 
 holes shot through them. I was expecting something along the lines of ricocheting like in most 
 games. I feel they should have done something with the windows though. When you're in a war zone 
 with gun fire, grenade and mortar explosions going on, I doubt there are any windows that stay 
 in one piece.
  
  The controls were the normal keys used in the FPS games. They don't put your hand at odd angles 
 and if you have a laser mouse, that's all the better because you need to be on guard and be able 
 to move fast when you have to.
  
  In conclusion, I thoroughly enjoyed this game, but I would recommend it to a gamer that has enough 
 experience to play on one the harder setting to get the full effect of COD 2. Not that a beginner 
 wouldn't enjoy it on the easy setting, but I digress. Anyway, I loved this game and it is very 
 addicting, probably more so then F. E. A. R. I would recommend that you have a clock on hand as it 
 is easy to lose track of time.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: MasterMarcus
Rating: 7.8
Date: Nov 22, 2005 6:56 am PT
Review:  Pros: three main campaigns being varied; intense action; some tactical choices; smoke grenades; 
 solid MP; great audio experience; detailed look at higher settings.
  
  Neutral: new health system.
  
  Cons: ''trial & error'' situations artificially enhanced; generic 
 gameplay mechanics; single player tedious over longer sessions; teammates can block; few clipping 
 issues; system hog for most PC owners.
  
  First thing first: Call of Duty 2 is a very good game. Almost excellent. The score may look mediocre; 
 however it remains a well above average WWII shooter displaying the very same healthy dose of brutal 
 action [ and mechanics ] than the first entry critically acclaimed in 2003. As of writing this, 
 we're already in late 2005: thereby a game offering the same mechanics in their whole ( with the 
 franchise's specific set up rendering the Jump useless compared to the constant Crawl ) , can hardly 
 achieve the same level of excellence. That said, we can always understand developers to perpetuate 
 a winning formula, which still relies at shooting legions of nazis.
  
  Admittedly, you'll adore the game if a well made WWII spectacle is your bag, offering tons of intense 
 sequences requiring many tries based on error. This is a cause to become dismissive at playing 
 over long sessions. The layout in which the constant brawl takes place, the cleansing of countless 
 nazi infantry caches all imply a frantic gameplay on full alert - almost like a fierce UT2004 competition, 
 as the deep focus the player must exert can be equally required in both the SP and MP. Although 
 the campaign now emphasizes more about alternate routes around buildings, houses, locations, you're 
 still obligated to fulfill the objective before moving on to the next. The scripted events are 
 still forcibly coded. Not that purists will complain; yet things to do remain rather basic: run, 
 move, duck, avoid enemy grenades abundantly thrown at you, use yours. But OK, the useful smoke 
 grenades add a new tactical dimension to the scene. The other enhancement talked about, the new 
 health meter system, could be considered as the most ''innovative'' change in this iteration. It 
 effectively adjust the survival mechanics onto a semi-realistic experience of duck-and-run-and-duck: 
 still open to debate, but not so frustrating overall. Perhaps some nostalgics will miss the fantastical 
 death-spawn system. Now when you're hit, you're bleeding and you must get to cover for a few seconds 
 to FULLY recover but that doesn't make the game easier, far from it since the enemy AI has been 
 updated ( more nazi soldiers, cleverer, throwing grenades and coming up indefinitely if you camp 
 too long ) .
  
  The three main single campaigns span over 25+ brutal missions of uneven length, worth the ride. 
 Again, the conventional set up include new objectives professionally crafted. It may be somewhat 
 of a contradiction, but yes the whole thing is just that: a mix of some new tactics within a static 
 construct successfully rehashed for years, mainly involving the same infantry combat found in countless 
 war games. You may tire of this sooner than you think; many addicts don't seem interested to dig 
 the SP a second time and prefer playing online ( especially snipers who will find the single component 
 lacking the use of scoped weapons ) . The African campaign ( British ) bring some exotic touches 
 from Egypt through Tunisia ( but you still make the same war of attrition than any other setting 
 ) , with some historical debriefings about Rommel and his Afrika Korps. Good presentation too for 
 the winter war in Stalingrad and the US in Normandy, albeit the Stalingrad era feels as a dja 
 vu, a prolonged chapter of what we already played in the first. In fact, the backbone [ basic layout 
 ] to use for progress throughout each mission may steadily somber into something tedious: run, 
 take a road, duck, corner a building, cleanse, get hit, recover, kill machine gunners, infiltrate, 
 take a stair, complete the objective, regroup, go to the next. There are some great cinematic moments 
 though, along Pointe du Hoc in Normandy, also some stressful ''3  
 but never to top the dramatic events originally presented in the first Medal of Honor.
  
  Graphically, the textures got a noticeable overhaul upon a reworked engine now showing very decent 
 polygon count and interesting character modeling. Details are sometimes very surprising, and some 
 other time minor glitches seem to grace the board ( like corpses or hands partly getting through 
 doors ) . At 1280 x 1024 / 4x /8x and higher, the environments become high end rendered, with a 
 better realistic mix of gimmicks. All the smoke effects and gunning truthfully enrich the experience, 
 but some water & fire effects still display a strange unrealistic canevas, like the water port 
 in Egypt or the fire on top of destroyed tanks. Those are quite minor within the scale of mapping, 
 and without reaching the level of F. E. A. R. of course, all other graphical touches really feast 
 the eyes - if you're at liberty to look at for a few secs between the action, that is. There are 
 some clipping issues that can be irritating occasionally, depending on how you take obstacles; 
 not to mention some teammate blocking you in a stairway. The same applies for long range shooting, 
 but some may find a realistic satisfaction out of this as to avoid injuring your own mates while 
 sniping the enemy. Few vehicles may look quite blurred if not ugly up close; again not that you 
 will notice in the midst of the action anyway. But the minor art cuts and defects are there. In 
 the end, it appears the game needed further optimisation for mid range machines. The beast is quite 
 laggy at times for the mass of PC gamers, comparable to the most demanding engines on the market 
 at the release. Enthusiast top of the line for the wealthy is required to fully appreciate the 
 visuals here.
  
  Aaaaaah, the audio: a perfect brawl, from weapon sounds to special effects. Teammates constantly 
 shout. Everything is a 'great' mess to hear, rightfully pumping the thundering landscape of the 
 big war, torned by an asounding barrage of mortars. You'll need a good headset if you live in an 
 apartment..........
  
  CoD 2 is a surreal trial & error festival recreating a grim war of attrition harder than the prequels 
 at the same levels ( hardened, veteran ) . It's a conventional rehash, yet professionally done as 
 expected for a decent WWII revisit. It's a good mix of constant action and tactical progression 
 for a casual gameplay. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Eugene86
Rating: 9.3
Date: Nov 22, 2005 1:11 am PT
Review:  The graphics are good, very good specially the smoke effects very cool feature, the game its a 
 hungry beast for graphics power, if u have 512-DDR it will give u a little bit of trouble on the 
 loading time, well at least for me that happened, the sounds of the weapons are very good, the 
 ambient gets u immersed in the game and the voice acting its ok for me , the game play feels more 
 like COD, maybe its just me but it felt alike, overall I liked the game, its a pretty good game, 
 I recommend it, get it and enjoy it. 
  
  PEACE!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Wedding_Dress
Rating: 8.7
Date: Nov 21, 2005 6:22 pm PT
Review:  Call of Duty 2
  When I think of the game, the words, explosion, fear, excitement, teammates, saving private ryan, 
 and intensity come to mind.
  
  Call of duty 2 is a theme park for the senses. It delivers an explosive single player, while providing 
 a great online time. This game is a fantastic patchwork of everything done well in almost every 
 WW2 first person shooter, while adding many features that enhance the gameplay.
  
  Graphics
  I myself am not a graphics whore (why I have this as my first subtopic, I do not know 
 why)
  
  The grapics are spectacular. They hold up well to other good looking games such as half life 2, 
 and F. E. A. R. The game, unfortunately, is not well optomized, and my athlon 2600+, geforce 6800NU, 
 768mb ram, ran the game well on med settings at 1280x1024 w/ no AA/AF. Although I am not sure, 
 there seems to be a bloom effect that adds a lot to the outdoor environments.
  
  Control
  The game controls well. Although they did take out the sprint function of COD: UO, you move fast 
 enough already you do not really miss it. One BIG complaint i have is the gun switch function. 
 In COD you could have the mouse wheel switch guns for you, if you scroll up or down with it, but 
 in this game, you can only bind the scroll wheel to switch if you go up OR down with the scroll 
 wheel. Grenades also work like halo's now, w/ an instant throw button (which I bound to my 4 & 
 5 mouse buttons)
  
  Gameplay
  The game is mostly scripted and linear. although they thankfully added a bunch of large areas with 
 multiple paths, you are pretty much forced into a few linear paths, in a large area. 
  
  The health system is revamped also. You can take less hits now, but you can regain your health 
 if you hide behind some cover for a few seconds, a-la halo. This is a good change, (although controversial) . 
 The weapons are also more powerful, but vastly more inaccurate, forcing you to use the iron sights. 
 I like this new feature because multiplayer is now more skill based. Also, they added a "grenade-o-meter", 
 to tell you if a grenade is within lethal range of you. (this is almost necessary, b/c getting 
 hit by a greande is almost a certian death... if not by the greande, then you are shot during your 
 "shellshock" moment afterwords.
  
  AI
  The AI is much improved from the last game. During play, I found the enemy flaking my position, 
 tossing grenades to flush me out, instead of risking their own lives. The AI reacts realistically 
 to dynamic situations, falling back when losing and providing cover fire when advancing. Instead 
 of ragdolls, the devs decided to use death animations. This is good and bad. The good thing is, 
 there are hundreds of animations, so you have less of a chance of seeing the last ten jerries you 
 killed to die in the exact same way. The bad thing is, Ive sometimes noticed the last ten jerries 
 ive killed have died in exactly the same way. Also, there are some geometry problems w/ dead NPS's 
 sticking out into buildings/doors. Also there is some sort of glitch from the first COD where you 
 can see a muzzleflash through solid rock walls.
  
  Multiplayer
  Online play is the same as the first game, fast and furious. You will die quickly if you do anything 
 overtly aggressive. You must take cover and use your iron sights. Its for for a while, and a good 
 alternative to CS: S or BF2. Some maps from COD have been ported, and new ones are included.
  
  Replay
  Like hl2, I found this type of game to have little replay value, after three playthroughs 
 I found this was a bit boring because of the lineariaty of the levels.
  
  Conclusion
  A worthy sequal to the first COD, but some shortcomings leave this great game a bit lacking. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ma21212
Rating: 9.2
Date: Nov 21, 2005 1:05 pm PT
Review:  wow!! this game blew me away ... its probably the best WWII game i evere played .... and i played 
 alot ... the enemyes are smarter now they reatcto almost evry move you make you throw a grnade they 
 hide ,their is a new wepon the smoke grnade .. this lets you flank and sneek up behind you enemy 
 obeously but some times you run into them .. their are alot of wepons ... all kinds mines, bombs, mishine 
 guns, sub. mishine
  guns, rifles, snipers, RPGs, hand guns, etc..... their are also many cool moment during the game .their 
 are weather efects that make it look cool .. this is a verey intens game ... i really think you should 
 get it..... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Vectorz
Rating: 9.4
Date: Nov 21, 2005 12:23 pm PT
Review:  After playing one of the most cinimatic battle type games Call of Duty, I eagerly awaited COD2 
 as did so many others. And the long wait was worth it, they managed to make the sequal even better, 
 touching on parts of the war seldom brought to you by other games. 
  
  Graphics: By no doubt the graphics are very polished and well done, they take my computer to its 
 limits which I like to see, and bring a very detailed world to your screen. I had no problems what 
 so ever when it came to the iron sites, or the crosshairs, the smoke granades which rely heavaly 
 on graphics as a gameplay feature to cover you and your squad works incredably well on both sides. 
 Very impressive.
  
  Sound: The sound wash sharper, clearer, blurred when needed. I could hear the crackling of morters 
 and gunfire off in the distance when all was silent near me, and when the 50 cals started busting 
 it brought that intense feeling you get when you first watch saving private ryan. 
  
  Gameplay: The gameplay is almost the same, and for good reason, although they did add a few new 
 nice touches to help you get around obsticles such as logs and even 2 story windows, you can easaly 
 hope over them with a press of the space bar. The hud hides when you dont need it and re-apears 
 when you do so seemlessly I hardly noticed it untill the end of the game. Like the game Brothers 
 in arms, you learn that flanking the enamy is always the best way to win the battle, using smoke 
 and sheer guts and good aim (great aim on a consol) you can beat the game in a day if you wanted. 
 
  
  Value: As for the lifespan of this game after completion of the singlplayer, it goes as far as 
 multiplayer, definitly not the game to buy if your looking for 60+ hours of game time. But as always, 
 on a LAN or even over the net you can get in some great multiplayer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: The_Bad_Gay
Rating: 9.4
Date: Nov 21, 2005 9:33 am PT
Review:  Hello everybody
  
  Let me start immediately by explaining the cons of this otherwise terrific- game: the framerate 
 isn't too good on lower systems and there is no 'Punk Buster' or other anti-cheat program in Multiplayer.
 
  
  That's it. Now over to the good things...
  
  Gameplay. -This is rock solid WWII shooter gameplay. As Medal of Honor: Allied Assault started 
 the WWII-shooter genre, CoD 2 perfected it. In short: if you liked the cinematic gameplay typical 
 for the series, you'll like this title just as much, if not more.
  
  -Graphics. - Call of Duty 2 looks absolutely stunning when you have the right hardware. If you 
 can't play on DX 9.0-mode however, no problem, it still looks gorgeous.
  As far as I'm concerned they can easily compare Infinity Ward's newest to 'next-generation' shooters 
 like HL2, Doom 3, Far Cry when it comes to overall graphics.
  
  -Sound. - This might be one of the most appealing factors to me: the music is absolutely fitting 
 and the weapon-sounds are very realistic. These two factors make for a gorgeous score on 'sound'. 
 Ow, and ofcourse the ingenuous 'battle-chatter'-system IW developped for this game. 
  You can't have a realistc battle without realistic shouting!
  
  -Value. - Though the campaign 
 is fairly short-lived, you can still accept the tremendous 
  challenge of completing the Single Player on 'veteran', which extends the life of the SP-portion 
 of the game a great deal.
  
  Furthermore the Multiplayer will keep you playing for a long long time. As we all know CoD 1 (UO) 
 has a big online community and it seems as Cod 2 is likely to get one too, set apart the small 
 but annoying Multiplayer issues that will be most likely fixed in the upcoming patch.
  
  -Reviewers Tilt. - This game will likely be on my hard drive until the next Call of Duty title 
 arrives!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: JiSnoz
Rating: 9.6
Date: Nov 21, 2005 8:01 am PT
Review:  Even though I play quite a lot, Im probably what you call a casual gamer, so I havent played 
 every WWII shooter that there is, but now I dont even have to, Call of duty 2 has it all.
  
  First of lets start with the bad, because there is not lots of those in this game. The length 
 and the difficult levels are the only things that bothered me, the game does not last long, there 
 are probably 10 to 15 hours of gameplay in the single player campaign, it took me a little less 
 time than that to finish the game on regular difficulty level, which is not that hard, and Ive 
 started the game on Veteran (the most difficult level) now, but even it isnt as hard as one would 
 assume or hope. But those are just small flaws in an almost perfect game.
  
  Now for the good, the game is as immersive as a game can be, the sounds and voice acting are perfect, 
 when the enemy storms your position and you here their battle crys and then your own squad leaders 
 commands and all the explosions and gunfire you feel like you are there, fighting for your own 
 life shooting every head that pops up from behind cover, shooting every body that launched over 
 their sandbags to charge your positions, hitting every German, that made it through the grenades 
 and submachine gunfire, with the blunt end of your rifle, you feel like you are there.
  
  There are many other good things in the game as well, like the saving system, you dont have to 
 worry about saving, it does it for you and you dont have to load either, when you die, it loads 
 from the last save, this is good because you dont have to think about saving at all, the only 
 thing you have to think about is the game itself.
  
  So if you are looking for a game that makes you fell like youre one man in the middle of a huge 
 war, this game is for you. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: hamidg
Rating: 9.6
Date: Nov 20, 2005 7:49 pm PT
Review:  This is the best game by far in te fps range. With this game the posiblities are endless. If you 
 were thinking about getting a new computer to get this or an xbox to get CD 1. Go with a new computer 
 because this wipes the floor with halo 2. There are loads of add ons as the game has its own editor. 
 You can create your very own levels, charicters, guns, vehicals, and anything else that a game 
 has, evern your very own game type. 
  
  Gameplay - The gameplay is very addictive and easy to learn. Basicly the same as the other CD games 
 and half life type games. You are allways on the edge of your seat comeating in competitions and 
 picking your team mates in the main game. The game has everything that CD 2 has and loads more. 
 There are lots of old game types comming back into play for this game including assult where you 
 have to defend and then in the second round attack the base. Also a few maps from the first CD 
 have returned being slightly revamped for the new game such as Mopheus.
  
  Graphics - This all depends on your grapics card really and how it can cope with the game. But 
 im sure you will agree that with the latest graphics card with the game on top settings that it 
 is the best thing out. It evern beats xbox's Halo 2. The graphics react very well to light and 
 the Karma Data/ Ragdoll effect (the thing that makes people go floppy when u kill them) works realy 
 well.
  
  Sound - Sound is also excllent. Supporting surround sound. It also works very well with just two 
 speakers next to each other, one each side of the screen. You realy get a feel from where you are 
 being shot or where something is happeing or exploding in someones face.
  
  If you own a PC with a grapics card above a G-Force 2 or equivelent buy this game, and join the 
 mayhem! 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: comptrex
Rating: 8.6
Date: Nov 20, 2005 3:58 pm PT
Review:  More of the same from the CoD series. Fills more like an expansion then breaking any new ground. 
 Still short on the single player side, but will check out multi later. The AI is definately smarter, 
 but still a little linear play. Offers more replay value than the original. Now bring on the Pacific 
 side of the series...
  
  The lack of a health bar is an added bonus since the screen actually changes when you receive damage. 
 The smoke grenades add tactics for those machine gun nests raids and camera angles are decent. 
 All in all a good game that could always be made better. Short content on the single player side 
 for the price of admission leaves a little to be desired, but the improvements outweigh the cons. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GuShAnS
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 20, 2005 12:46 pm PT
Review:  This is by far the best call of duty game and i think possibly the best WWII FPS evr. There are 
 many things that make this game great but i will hit the hard points. First the battle chatter, 
 absolutley amazing!!!! Ur men call out wats goin on around u and where the germans are but the 
 great thing is even the germans call out where u r too to their men! U can here them scream "British 
 infantry, by the telephone pole" except in german! Also the smoke effects are great it almost looks 
 real. One of the really good things is the graphics. I have a Geforce 5700 Fx 256MB card and that 
 isn't the greatest card out there but it still looks amazing the textures, shadows, and u can even 
 c everyones breath! The combat AI is also amazing ur men retreat when needed and the germans retreat 
 when ur really giving em a hard time. Greatness!!!! i would highly reccomned this game for anyone 
 who likes a FPS shooter especially a WWII FPS with tons of authenticity!
  I g2g play more...... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mgunner90210
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 20, 2005 12:17 pm PT
Review:  Well, what do i think about call of duty 2?, I truly think that this game is the ebst Ww2 game 
 out on the market right now. Call of duty 2 put you in the feet of 3 types of Soldiers. What i 
 would liek to see from the developers, is beign able to be a German, which would be very interesting. 
 I kind of look back, on what other previous developers have tried to do, but it hasnt been good 
 for them, but Call of duty 2 is the best WW2 i've played and i encourage people to buy this game. 
 Like, other developers, haven't really achieved the optimum performace of other games, which has 
 put their gameplay down, graphics, sound and development of the game. What i really think of infinity, 
 is that they are probably going to make more modifications onto Call of duty 2, but I would like 
 to see some more games like call of duty 2. Could you imagine call of duty 2 developers, making 
 a vietnam game?, that would be AMAZING, but it all takes time. Well, thats it for now, Good job 
 Infinity and Activision, you have my support as a true Gamer! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: swankytmc
Rating: 8.6
Date: Nov 20, 2005 10:11 am PT
Review:  Great game. Takes the playability of call of duty builds on the cinematic experience. I still don't 
 like the responsive of enemies when they are attacked. The original medal of honour actually did 
 this better........ the way enemies reacted by shimmying/wincing. Great story mode however and I 
 like the Russian campaigns (akin to enemy at the gates) . If you like first person shooters, this 
 is a must. Would've liked to see the air missions courtesy of COD united offensive though. To conclude, 
 Great graphics, sound, gameplay, some new original ideas and a reasonable price make Call od Duty 
 2 well worth a try.
  
  Cheers,
  
  Swanky the monkey catcher 
::::::

::::::
UserName: razdab
Rating: 9.1
Date: Nov 20, 2005 8:41 am PT
Review:  call of duty 2 is an amazing game for the pc. If you have a good pc then get it, if not, wait, 
 and get it on the xbox 360. The way you are part of a team makes the feeling of war so real, your 
 team mates get killed and so you know not to go that way, and its just so real. I would recomend 
 it to anybody who likes shooting games, its soo exciting! The best thing is that you get to fight 
 as not just one character, but 3, from russia, england and the usa. The games D-day level is fantastic 
 and each and every level is unique and exciting in itself. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mr_grinch88
Rating: 9.3
Date: Mar 20, 2006 1:32 pm PT
Review:  Introduction:
  
  Absolutely amazing game! A great all around game that expands the WWII and COD universe. Great 
 multiplayer as well.
  
  Gameplay: 10/10
  
  Call of Duty 2 (COD2) , like its predecessor delivers a WWII game like never before with such intesity 
 it feels real. On D-Day, your in your higgins boat and the MG42s on the cliff open fire into the 
 inside of the boat, which cuts through a few marines with poofs of red blood. Once off the boat 
 the remaining soldiers rush off to be mowed down. A higgins boat next to you gets hit with artilery 
 and a marine stumbles onto the beach engulfed with flames. These are the enhancements that makes 
 this game so intense. When you rush machine gun nests with your yelling comrades beside you, you 
 feel adrenaline pumping through your blood. On the more technical side; all of the guns are balanced, 
 which is quite exceptional for Multiplayer to have the sniper rifle be fair, but serve its function.
 
  
  Graphics: 10/10
  
  Maybe this sentence will inform you on the quality of the graphics: You can see the sweat on the 
 soldier's faces. Grenades don't just explode and leave a blast mark but the dirt thrown up can 
 be splattered on walls. If a explosion erupts near you, you fall on your face and your ears ring 
 and your vision swims. All of the environments are exceptional, each having a distinct feel; from 
 one another and other games. The sun beats of the desert, the ice looks glossy and reflects light, 
 the rained out trenches have puddles in them that reflect the world, etc. Even if you can't run 
 DirectX 9 graphics settings the DirectX 7 still looks spectacular without the bumpmapping. They 
 practically redid the textures for weaker video cards so that it would still look great.
  
  Sound: 09/10
  
  The sound is simply exceptional. The music is dramatic and fits the mood. Sounds 
 become fainter when you hold your breath to steady a sniper rifle. Explosions ring in your ears. 
 Machine guns roar in the distance. The only complaint here is that some of the standard weapons 
 sound a little tinny. As if there should be a little more power behind it. Another great addition 
 is the "Battle Chatter engine". Your squadmates will actually tell you in a non-scripted way where 
 the enemies are, like: "Theres a squad of Krauts behind the broken wall on the left flank", and, 
 "Die you Fascist bastard!" while he mowes down a german. They are constantly saying stuff that 
 is context sensitive and non-linear. 
  
  Value: 08/10
  
  The value is only a little low because they did away with vehicle combat for multiplayer and that 
 you need a beefy graphics card to fully expirience the graphics. Plus they rehashed some of the 
 old COD maps with graphics updates (could be a Pro vs a Con, however, if you liked the maps) . 
 
  
  Reviewer's Tilt: 09/10
  
  Great game overall. An instant classic. In fact, I've nearly beaten the game 3 times (on increasingly 
 harder difficulty settings) and I put in 5 hours of multiplayer gameplay today. Absolutely a great 
 game. A note on the difficulty settings: They hit the sweet spot. The harder it gets the more intense 
 the fights become, but it isn't impossible. Sort of reminicent of Halo 2's "Legendary" mode. The 
 multiplayer is absolutely great, it's not much different than COD but still the best WWII multiplayer 
 shooter out there today. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JeffLobel
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 19, 2005 10:30 pm PT
Review:  i played the pre release demo and let me tell u its the most amazing game i have seen in a while. 
 Even battlefield 2 doesnt come close. I was shocked at the gameplay and the movement. When u play 
 you will see what i mean, i just couldnt believe how grea the game was. This is a must, i saw it 
 for a few moments on the xbox 360 and it looked even better, note i played it on my computer. Also 
 about the graphics, they are some of the best i have seen, ever. Congrtats to the makers, htey 
 made one of the best shootin games i have ever seen. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: -Sniper99-
Rating: 9.4
Date: Nov 19, 2005 6:11 pm PT
Review:  Graphics-9 These graphics are sick! They really did improve them from last game! The character's 
 hand is so detailed you can see the white on his fingernail! The environments are astounding, I 
 like the Russian levels with the snow and totally destroyed houses! The only thing is that every 
 once and awhile, you will see a player crouching and see right threw some of him.
  
  Sound-10 I am absoulutley amazed at how your squad will talk! Yelling "Grenade. Grenade!" or, "Cover 
 me, I'm reloading!" The same with the weapons. They all sound realistic and authentic! I love the 
 sound of this game!
  
  Value-9 The single player is amazing, with three different campaigns, Russian, American, and British! 
 The levels are all great with nice variety. The multiplayer has been greatly improved aswell! This 
 is one game you won't get bored with easily!
  
  Gameplay- 10 As you might have guessed, this is my favourite WW II shooter so far! The gameplay 
 is so insanely immersive and intense!
  
  Tilt-9 This is an amazing game, that is only marred by some tiny graphical glitches, and is also 
 a bit expensive for a PC game. Overall, by this game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: baseq_2001
Rating: 9.3
Date: Nov 19, 2005 3:56 pm PT
Review:  Since this game was released I stayed on severs for quite a long time. What I saw there was incredible 
 fascinating. Unlike Quake, Unreal or Halo this game is real, fun and a lot more disciplined. I 
 vote this game to be the game of the year... Very many gamers think of this game as a United Offensive 
 based game and this is a very big mistake because the story is continued from the first COD... 
 Activision keep it up and make TDM maps :) )
  
  The looks and the effects of the weapons was the thing that has amazed me... the weapon graphics 
 is the best I`ve seen. The physics and movement are so natural and overall weapon damage is very 
 ballanced. The enemy is fully capable to neutralize all of your teammates and here you cannot dodge 
 bullets. If you see smbd. looking at you through a window, you'll know for sure you die. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RichardW331
Rating: 6.1
Date: Nov 19, 2005 3:25 pm PT
Review:  COD2, is a stunning game, but being honest, i don't think its good enough for me, and here is why
 
  
  1) Does'nt offer me any justice with not putting Ragdoll physics in.
  
  2) No deployable MG42 or 30 cal, which really suxors.
  
  3) Multiplayer you can drive any vehicle.
 
  
  4) Uses the same engine basically as COD1, since, u need the same PC as COD1. 
  
  5) Same actions and sounds on guns as on COD2, just look slighty different, which really gets boring.
 
  
  6) Just a joke to catch the buyers attention, due to COD1 making a huge success, so everyone thinks 
 COD2 is a great success. Its not, its a waste of money, and there just trying to catch ur money, 
 of course, deployable weapons and vehicles will come availible in Expansions, but this is just 
 gonna be the same like COD1, same engine, same stuff  ? COD2 feels like a bore expansion.
  In future, i hope, COD2 should make the big hit by making it into a type Battlefield 2 game, including 
 , planes and ships, this will really hit the charts, but i suppose this is a big thing, for COD2 
 now, i would of rather of waiting an extra year, if it included planes and ships.
  
  Im not saying COD2 is bad, its just a polish from when the first COD1 came, go ahead and try it, 
 but, if you have played COD 1, i think overall, you will be playing Multiplayer on COD1.
  
  still.... i'm sure you'll want your own verdict, better borrow it before you buy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lucasgarsha
Rating: 9.6
Date: Nov 19, 2005 2:19 pm PT
Review:  There are many good reviews for Call of Duty 2 in this forum. I know; I read them. Before I shell 
 out hard-earned greenbacks, I research a game through and through. Nothing stings more than a wasted 
 purchase when you're married with three small children.
  
  I don't have hot gaming hardware. I spend $100 per month on Pampers, not screamin' iron. I have 
 a humble rig; I had the specs hashed out here, but that isn't going to help you out. Download the 
 free demo and test it on your own machine and you'll know what to expect. 'nuff said.
  
  In a former life, I could devote myself to a good game for hours on end, and foresake lesser activities 
 like eating and sleeping. I can't do that today, so I need a game that is accessible, doesn't require 
 a PhD in the game's "universe" (whatever that means) , and provides depth in short bursts of entertainment. 
 Call of Duty 2 hits all of those marks.
  
  * Great action [hordes of Nazis charging - dodge, dip, dive, duck, and dodge]
  
  * Great immerson/environments/sound 
 all that.
  
  * Decent AI - NPC Squadmates keep you from "feeling lonely"
  
  * Well designed 15 minute missions, you can replay any of them, and I probably will.
  
  * Great 
 pace. No annoying backtracking. No browsing walkthroughs to avoid missing the essential super weapon. 
 No  Face it, if you like playing the game, you'll finish 
 it eventually.
  
  * Fun 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kosmo45622
Rating: 8.3
Date: Nov 19, 2005 2:12 pm PT
Review:  The single player version of this game is superior to any other on the market today. But without 
 the scope of united offensive it still lacks some key ingridients. The Multiplayer Version still 
 lacks the means for a large team to really make any dent in the enemy's defenses. Without specialized 
 groups (i. e armor) teams are left to just blast away aimlessly at one another in the hope of hitting 
 someone. Once the Expansion pack is introduced it would also be nice to see a wider variety of 
 armor as well (i. e Half-Tracks, Bren Gun Vehicles, Panthers, Tigers, SPs, ect.) Another nice touch 
 might be fixed mortor teams to fire on places throughout the map. If the designers can incorporate 
 these changes into the multiplayer version this will blow HALO out of the water. If they leave 
 the game as it is, you might as well save money playing united offensive. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dawgz_Homies
Rating: 7.2
Date: Nov 19, 2005 12:26 pm PT
Review:  Call Of Duty defined a genre. While not revolutionary in any way it did give a huge facelift to 
 the much too populated World War 2 video game. It added intensity and white knuckle action. The 
 weapons were authentic in every way and form and it included new factions to the World War 2 genre 
 (British and Russians) as playable characters in single player. The multi campaign approach was 
 great in every way and each of the allied countries had a totally different play experience. Each 
 campaign felt unique, from the american's para trooper squad and you play with the same soldiers 
 in every mission to emphasize a cool brotherhood. The british missions had a nice espionage feel 
 to them. And the russian missions, what can i say? They were AWESOME! But now all that has changed 
 sadly.
  
  Call Of Duty 2 has you spanning the globe yet again fighting with the same factions... AGAIN. This 
 time however all the campaigns feel exactly the same. Yes, many people might disagree.... but i 
 find them much too similar. And worst of all, their so easy! In Call of Duty and United Offensive 
 the action was so fast paced and challenging.... that it kept you thinking on your feet. But in 
 CoD 2... its just snipe a bunch of ppl, throw a smoke and go spray. Repeat, repeat, repeat. Maybe 
 its just me, but on veteran its practically the same thing, you just have to take cover a lil more 
 often but its still pretty darn easy. And although the game tries to be cinematic, but it comes 
 of lookin lame. It doesn't feel like your saving troops or doing any essential objectives. Its 
 just basic crap like bomb this, shoot this, defend this at its simplest. Yes it offers a very mild 
 non linear segment or two but it still feels the same. Really, the gameplay has become worse from 
 the original CoD and this just feels like a rehash without substance.
  
  Call oF Duty 2 at least has amazing graphics. That's something that gives it such amazing production 
 values that it at least FEELS like your playing in world war 2. The bulletholes to the detailed 
 environments and character models gives it an increasingly realistic feel. But this doesn't necessarily 
 save the sub par gameplay.
  
  The sound is simply amazing. The sound track is so good, that it actually gives some memorable 
 moments because of that. However sound fx for the weapons, not so good. They sound so weak unlike 
 the strong firepower sound fx in cod 1. 
  
  Multiplayer..... SUCKS. Not only does it have horrible new maps, it also has NO new gametypes, just 
 one or two new weapons (which includes a lame shotgun) . They actually REMOVED features from UO 
 which had simply amazing multiplayer (UO added  ranks, new weapons 
 and new game types) . However here its just the same as CoD 1 but with a new look.
  
  If you've never played a CoD before you'll think this game is pretty awesome. If you're either 
 a regular FPS player or a CoD fan, prepare to be dissapointed. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: devnull
Rating: 5.8
Date: Nov 19, 2005 9:55 am PT
Review:  This is a tense game, but in the boring way. Start in one place, kill the herds of gemermans, run 
 to the next place, kill the herds of gemermans, ride to the next place, kill the herds of gemermans... 
 and so on. When Call of Duty first appeared it was great, better than anything before, but since 
 then I've have had the pleasure of playing Brothers in Arms which is much better. In comparison 
 Call of Duty 2 lacks the tactical gameplay, story and suspence.
  The idea of playing three different campaigns in one game (russian, english and american) is good 
 as it adds to the over all value and gives the opportunity of a change of scenery and it all looks 
 very good. But after playing through it feels like you, single handedly on some sort of mass shooting 
 range, killed of the entire german army... twice. A new, more graphical, version of space invaders. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: slavik_m
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 19, 2005 8:48 am PT
Review:  Call of Duty 2 lets players experience four individual soldier stories as they overcome insurmountable 
 odds in multiple campaigns. Players have the freedom to follow each of the four storylines through 
 for the ultimate character-driven experience, or they can engage in the historic battles chronologically 
 for quick hitting action.
  
  Infinity Ward, creator of the blockbuster, original Call of Duty, has also expanded the scope of 
 combat to deliver a truly realistic battlefield experience. Squads now have the freedom to take 
 on a variety of mission objectives, on expansive battlefields that allow for multiple paths and 
 the ability to utilize actual combat tactics like outflanking and fire and maneuver capabilities.
 
  
  Call of Duty 2's new engine and A. I. technology set the stage for authentic squad combat and astonishing 
 action. Concealment can be key as battlefield smoke or even deployed smoke grenades cloud visibility. 
 Weather effects such as the dusty sandstorms of North Africa and whiteout blizzard conditions of 
 Russia, for example, will keep soldiers glued to their bunkers. The team has also employed a state-of-the-art 
 Battle Chatter System that brings the action to life as squad-mates bark out context-sensitive 
 updates in real-time to players through an advanced A. I. system. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hellcommando
Rating: 9.6
Date: Nov 19, 2005 8:33 am PT
Review:  Call of Duty 2 is a game that will make you exciting in every moment. The graphic is nice and never 
 lag, the sound effect is great too. It is a great game, you can try different characters and fight 
 against the enemies with your guns and buddies, you can totally experience what happened during 
 a war! I like the moment when every single soldier charge into the field and fight the enemies, 
 this always motive me, my game playing style is camping, covering, hiding, but when I play this 
 game, I gotta charge like all my 'buddies' to fight the ememies, this is a great experience to 
 me! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: squadup5008
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 19, 2005 2:48 am PT
Review:  U know i keep it real. When i this game played i relized that the people in this game keep it real 
 too. Dog listen for real when you play this game your heart may stop. The game is just amazing. 
 I have never played a war game like this one ever. Dog what they be doing out their on the battlefield 
 is some real sh**. The graphics are perfect and so is the game play especially when u got an old 
 english to sip on. That when its get insane. If you havent played the game i highly reccomend that 
 u play this game on some real sh**. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: carlandcarl
Rating: 8.8
Date: Nov 19, 2005 12:29 am PT
Review:  I have played the first call of duty and I liked it alot, and to what I can see of this one it 
 looks quite good. I can see myself getting this game because I just like war games and this is 
 no exception. The graphics are great and the gameplay looks just right, also it doesn't look like 
 a too easy game which you can finish under an hour, cause that would be so crap.
  
  Weapons look good in this game and aswell as added tanks and cars.
  If you really want to know 
 hoiw good it is then you have to buy it yourself and see that it is no exception to the great army 
 games out there today. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: swmorgan515
Rating: 9.7
Date: Nov 18, 2005 3:51 pm PT
Review:  If you played the first Call of Duty, this game will feel very natural to you. The campaign is 
 intense and epic, and even the tank and other vehicle levels are fun and engaging, whereas those 
 tended to be the weaker points in the first Call of Duty. 
  
  The graphics are VERY impressive, but the game runs smoother than I expeced on my PC (Athlon 64 
 3000+/1G Ram/Geforce 6600GT PCI-E) . I get anywhere from 60-120 FPS in 1024x768 mode. 
  
  The gameplay core is the same, tons of enemies and the familiar flanking tactics, although this 
 game does not have nearly the tactical emphasis of something like the "Brothers in Arms" series. 
 It is simply a "line-up the signts and shoot 'em" type game. 
  
  If you enjoyed the first Call of Duty, you owe it to yourself to play through this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fugas16
Rating: 9.4
Date: Nov 18, 2005 10:52 am PT
Review:  this call of duty is great it has everything than u ask for a game form this category, the graphics 
 are good, the sound is great, the gameplay is so great, the weapons are good.
  The most that i like form this call of duty was when u get the sniper rifle cause it have great 
 reality when u are pointing to an enemy your pulse is great u dont need to breath when u shoot 
 its very good this game i`m real fan i really liked it when i ply the first call of duty butr this 
 one its amazing i cant wait to play Call Of Duty 3 
::::::

::::::
UserName: scottloway
Rating: 8.1
Date: Nov 18, 2005 8:53 am PT
Review:  I should start by saying that I'm a relatively big fan of FPS war games. It all really took off 
 for me with BF1942, which due to the mods made the game last seemingly forever.
  
  What sets COD2 apart from other FPS war games is the storyline and gameplay. Yes, the sound, score, 
 and graphics are all very well done, but unless the story and gameplay are there, the end result 
 just isn't immersive enough to matter.
  
  I feel like COD2 went a bit too quickly for me. I got through it on the highest difficulty setting 
 in about 12 hours; the experience was very immersive, and really made you feel like you were in 
 the thick of it more than any game I've played previously. The opening D-Day scene for me was incredible 
 - I won't give anything away, but suffice to say that it was nearly as realistic as the opening 
 sequence of Saving Private Ryan. 
  
  At times, the AI was extremely difficult, even flanking me if I didn't pay enough attention to 
 the rear - your squad mates are fairly interactive and don't always follow you just because they're 
 supposed to; if they're already tied down in a big fire fight and you decide to Rambo through some 
 building to flank the enemy, they'll just let you and you stand a good chance of getting worked. 
 If you die, you'll restart at the last game save (thankfully there are many auto saves) , and maybe 
 you'll play it differently... eventually, you'll supress the enemy, fire and move with your squad, 
 flank the germans and move on to the next obstacle. 
  
  It is a noticably scripted game, however COD2 provides you opportunity to choose your path a lot 
 more readily than in previous games in this genre. For example, your objective may be to clear 
 out a town so a convoy can make it through; the town though may have 6 key buildings that need 
 to be cleared - how you clear them, and in what order, is completely up to you. During the game, 
 this gives you a great sense of replay value in that each time you die (and you will a lot at max 
 difficulty) , you can approach the task from a different angle, or keep pounding your current approach 
 until you break through. That said, once I finished the single player and wanted to go back through 
 a few episodes, the luster of the first time through was lost. 
  
  I'm a little dissapointed that COD2 doesn't include a multiplayer-ish single player version of 
 the game once you get all the way through the game. I don't want to just go back through the whole 
 thing again, and turning down the difficulty makes it all quite boring as you seemingly can get 
 through all of WWII with a 500:1 kill ratio...
  
  All in all however, I really enjoyed COD2. I don't think I'll play much after single player is 
 over; the online multi-player is pretty good, and capture the flag is quite refreshing, as is a 
 mode where if you die, you're out for the duration of that match (no infinite respawns) . The multi-player 
 maps are extremely rich graphicly, providing a lot of perches for sniping, nooks for hiding, and 
 dozens of angles and entry points to every building. 
  
  Result: A solid game that does justice to an over played genre and worth playing for fans of both 
 FPS and WWII shooters. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cvonsydow
Rating: 8.9
Date: Nov 17, 2005 9:51 pm PT
Review:  If the first COD game was your style, COD2 will fit you like a glove. Every aspect of the original 
 game was improved, and the style and feel of the game is constant and well paced.
  
  The graphics are excellent, with lighting, bump-mapping, and special visual effects like shell 
 shock and blurred vision. You can almost tell what your comrades are thinking by looking at their 
 faces. The buildings and outside areas are well-decorated, appropriate to the era, and look like 
 a living world.
  
  The sound is well done too. With 5.1 surround, the sounds of war come from all around you, and 
 really immerse you into the action. Grenades, gunshots, and the voices of your fellow soldiers 
 sound off regularly, pointing out enemy positions. Music swells at appropriate times, drawing you 
 in to a successful mission completion or other dramatic event.
  
  I have never experienced a more realistic feeling battlefield in a video game. You are always surrounded 
 by at least one or two (if not many more) comrades in arms. The world feels 'lived-in' and is not 
 sparsely decorated. At no point in this game does it not feel like a war is raging around your 
 character. Bullets whiz by your head, grenades and artillery explosions go off regularly, and vehicles 
 and other squads of infantry go about their missions. One thing they could have added here is possibly 
 civilians on the battlefield, but they might have just gotten in the way and interupted gameplay 
 more than anything else.
  
  There are some nice added features to this game as well. Binoculars, while present in the first 
 COD in select instances, are available throughout the game here. Smoke grenades are very useful, 
 and should be employed judisciously through the campaign, but by no means are they completely mandatory 
 to pass an area (if they are, one of your squadmates will throw one as well) . There are also some 
 stages where multiple objectives are present. This is a nice feature, and will let you move freely 
 through an area to complete them in any order you see fit. The AI is notibly improved as well to 
 handle this, and the friendly and enemy soldiers behave as realistically as ever.
  
  Awesome game, epic, fun, and engaging. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dhuraison
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 17, 2005 7:06 pm PT
Review:  Call of Duty 2 wont let ur hopes down since its jam packed with latest sound technologies and crispy 
 graphics which plays very fine even in low end systems like mine... :-)
  
  Moreover you have the option to select the directx version (7 or 9) so that you can optimise your 
 system's performance and boost the FPS to a relatively better figure...
  
  It also features many weapons ranging from a pistol to a missile launcher. Its AI is also appreciable. 
 For example, when you walk up the stairs, the opponents will hide behind the walls and try for 
 an ambush...
  
  In a nut shell, its a MUST-PLAY game... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jeff_d5
Rating: 9.6
Date: Nov 17, 2005 2:14 pm PT
Review:  its a great game with a great engine and amazingly it runs fine on my computer (radeon 9600 se) 
 i would have liked too have seen more guns at least the machine guns too be moveable instead of 
 stationary.
  
  the level design was impresive it had excellent ai and great graphix and superb gameplay i guess 
 the only thing wrong was that the game seemed to be missing some stuff like the ability to drive 
 something or fly something.
  
  althought it was a great game i felt that my strategy was very limited for each of the levels and 
 i found it an easy game but difficult at times..
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: dinamika
Rating: 9.8
Date: Nov 17, 2005 10:52 am PT
Review:  Wow Guys if u think medal honor is good lol you guys must be such losers lol call of duty is awsome 
 united awsome even better.... but Call of duty 2 is just gonna Blow all Medal and half call of duty 
 old versions out of the way the graphics sound affects combat and the suspense of people screaming 
 for victory is great. how you cover yourself from death and helping eachother and charging together 
 as one is just great better then any other game ever made..... how everyone screams for victory 
 and running into battle, the smoke grenades, the blow out how you see your teammates go down. planes 
 flying tanks riding thru the desert, boats shooting arterials dropping while your in the middle 
 amazing..... REWIED IN LITHUANIA time spent from 20 to 40 hour liked the british campaingn-Josh 
 davis, And russian-Koslov
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: 0TRIPWIRE0
Rating: 9.8
Date: Nov 17, 2005 8:36 am PT
Review:  From the original Call of Duty to Call of Duty 2 what a Fantastic series of WWII games. I have 
 been an active member of a clan for the original cod for some time now... and didnt think they could 
 improve much on the gameplay.
  Truth is they haven't really made that many changes to the actual style of gameplay, HOWEVER, they 
 have changed the graphics to make it look sooooo much better. That said you really have got to 
 have some serious hardware to get it to look its absolute best. When you have though... Oh man!! 
 The vastly improved graphics make it look and feel so much more realistic. There are still some 
 issues that need to be addressed, hopefully with a decent patch, but that still doesn't take anything 
 away from the fact that this is definately the best of the WWII fps bunch. AND believe me when 
 I say I have played them all both sp and mp: DoD (obviously not sp with this 1!) , MOH's (x3) BIA's 
 (x2) wolfenstein & Enemy territtory to name a few major ones.
  My only complaint if I have to have one is I wish the singleplayer had lasted longer. However, 
 I hope they will get the software mapping tools out soon so we can see the cod communties efforts 
 with the new style of graphics for multiplayer maps.
  Good stuff. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ryanjee11
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 17, 2005 7:49 am PT
Review:  Damn! Fantastic!!! !! !! !!! !!! 
  ! !! !!!!! !!!!!! !!! !!!!! !!!!!!!! !!!! !!!!!!! !!!!!! !!!!!!!!!!!!!! !!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! 
 !!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! !!!!!!! !!!!!!!!!!!! !!!!! !!!!! !!!! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! !!! ! !! ! !! ! !!! 
 ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! !!!! ! ! !! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! !! ! ! ! ! !! ! ! ! ! 
 ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! !!!! !! !! !!! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! !! !!!!! !!!!!! !!! !!!!! !!!!!!!! !!!! 
 !!!!!!! !!!!!! !!!!!!!!!!!!!! !!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! !!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! !!!!!!! !!!!!!!!!!!! !!!!! 
 !!!!! !!!! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! !!! ! !! ! !! ! !!! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! 
 ! !!!! ! ! !! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! !! ! ! ! ! !! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! !!!! !! !! !!! ! ! ! ! ! 
 ! ! ! ! ! ! !! !!!!! !!!!!! !!! !!!!! !!!!!!!! !!!! !!!!!!! !!!!!! !!!!!!!!!!!!!! !!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! 
 !!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! !!!!!!! !!!!!!!!!!!! !!!!! !!!!! !!!! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! !!! ! !! ! !! ! !!! 
 ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! !!!! ! ! !! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! !! ! ! ! ! !! ! ! ! ! 
 ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! !!!! !! !! !!! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! !! !!!!! !!!!!! !!! !!!!! !!!!!!!! !!!! 
 !!!!!!! !!!!!! !!!!!!!!!!!!!! !!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! !!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! !!!!!!! !!!!!!!!!!!! !!!!! 
 !!!!! !!!! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! !!! ! !! ! !! ! !!! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! 
 ! !!!! ! ! !! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! !! ! ! ! ! !! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! !!!! !! !! !!! ! ! ! ! ! 
 ! ! ! ! ! ! !! !!!!! !!!!!! !!! !!!!! !!!!!!!! !!!! !!!!!!! !!!!!! !!!!!!!!!!!!!! !!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! 
 !!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! !!!!!!! !!!!!!!!!!!! !!!!! !!!!! !!!! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! !!! ! !! ! !! ! !!! 
 ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! !!!! ! ! !! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! !! ! ! ! ! !! ! ! ! ! 
 ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! !!!! !! !! !!! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! !! !!!!! !!!!!! !!! !!!!! !!!!!!!! !!!! 
 !!!!!!! !!!!!! !!!!!!!!!!!!!! !!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! !!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! !!!!!!! !!!!!!!!!!!! !!!!! 
 !!!!! !!!! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! !!! ! !! ! !! ! !!! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! 
 ! !!!! ! ! !! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! !! ! ! ! ! !! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! !!!! !! !! !!! ! ! ! ! ! 
 ! ! ! ! ! sorry, lazy to write 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RobExelby
Rating: 9.3
Date: Nov 17, 2005 6:14 am PT
Review:  In all my gaming years, ive played countless WW2 shooters with it probably being my favourite genre. 
 To be honest, when i first heard about COD2 i was thinking it would be hard to recreate the sheer 
 AWESOMEness of the first title.
  
  ... and sure enough infinity ward have pulled it off, with breathtaking frontline action, mindblowing 
 ferocity of WW2 combat, and an excellent graphics engine. The gameplay is unfortunatly similar 
 to the first - destroy the 88's, secure the farmhouse, defend the counter attack... but IW have 
 thrown in a few nice extras with some tank warfare, a good recreation of the pipeline scenes from 
 "Enemy at the Gate" and also some antiaircraft weaponry.
  Like the first , you progress through the war in the eyes of a British Sgt, a Russian Pvt, and 
 an American Pvt. The layout of the game is well thought through. You can swap between the different 
 allies should you get stuck and fed-up in surrounded room. Or you can play the whole campaign of 
 each solder as if you were him.
  
  Some of the features of the gameplay make the game what it is. When playing with a 5.1 + surround 
 system, you can feel the vibration of every morter, the horror of every bullet 'zing' and the terror 
 of your fellow 'brothers'.
  The new smoke grenade feature is a lifesaver - allowing you to escape to a safehouse - or ambush 
 a german strongpoint.
  
  Overall this game should be played by all. Even those you avoid WW2 shooters. The game is speechless 
 in every scens allthough you wont get that feeling if you play it on easy - play it on veteran 
 and you will understand what i mean. The multiplayer function is all of the origional and more. 
 
  For me - the Best Shooter of 2005 !
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kuuorava
Rating: 8.7
Date: Nov 17, 2005 2:53 am PT
Review:  Played the game through few days ago and I must say I'm very surprised how well it worked on my 
 computer which is not that good nowadays. I played it with medium settings and must say it was 
 beautiful. Single player was just as fun to play as previous CoDs maybe even more fun. All the 
 events were unfortunately scripted. There no physics what so ever. Huge minus for not having ragdoll 
 which is almost a must in all new fps games. The atmosphere was awesome specially the parts where 
 Germans attacked or counter attacked.
  The maps were a bit too tight after getting used to United offensives open maps. Rifles were a 
 huge dissapointment because there weren't any space to really shoot with them and submachine guns 
 simply were more practical. Same problem in the multi player. I like little bit more open areas 
 and rifles so this wasn't for me at all.
  All in all singleplayer was very fun to play, good controls and atmosphere. If you like fps war 
 games this one you must have. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RLJSlick
Rating: 9.4
Date: Nov 16, 2005 8:30 pm PT
Review:  Activision and Infinity Ward has done an excellent job again; bring us our favorite WWII game back! 
 The graphics and sound is as good as ever, and the game submerges you even more into the game. 
 Now the action is close up and personal, sometime you found yourself even doing hand to hand combat!
 
  As always the sound and graphics are first rate, they Im guess will have nothing on the Xbox 
 360 version of the game, but the game looks great either way, and run smoothly on my 3.4GHz. Since 
 the combat is so up close this time, not only do the sounds, sound even better, but it plays an 
 important part in survival. You can hear the boot steps as your enemies are running down the streets. 
 If you dont have a 5.1 surround sound system, then I suggest you get with it and get one, because 
 this game is all the better if you do.
  The story as always, takes you through the 3 major Allied forces during the war. The Russians, 
 the British and the Yankees, you follow along as one of the combatants, following his missions, 
 and reading his journal after each mission. Not much changes there. The background video during 
 the war is well done, and do relate to your action very well. 
  I just cant say enough about the job these guys have done, I was so impressed with the game, I 
 made a point to watch the whole ending credits for this game, and there are many, so you can tell 
 how much effort Infinity Ward and Activision has put in this game! I cant leave this review without 
 giving this game the nod for Game of the Year!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: oroeovo
Rating: 9.8
Date: Nov 16, 2005 8:04 pm PT
Review:  I love every COD game and expansion a little more every time a new one comes out! First this thing 
 is running on the Doom 3 engine. The new detail in everything is amazing. You have the option of 
 letting the graphics engine choose what's best for you of you can go full manual. The new system 
 allows you to choose if you want to play direct x 9 or direct x 7. I played under the DX9 settings 
 real mapping, fantastic textures. There was one level where it was raining when the frame rate 
 dropped to something in the teens at least. I popped on the direct x 7 settings just to see what 
 it looked like for that part and you know what? I was still excellent!!!! So you don't really need 
 a powerhouse computer to play this game. I did actually switch back to DX9 and lower some setting 
 and everything was pretty much ok.
  
  There is a new health system that actually works really well. Remember in the other CODs when you 
 hit a really tough part and ended up eating lead and replaying certain sections over and over? 
 Well, now you get shot and your vision turns red and blurs. If you can stay out of direct fire 
 for a little while you just might live. It's a great system. If you really want to charge the enemy 
 and do something really stupid from time to time, like you do in multiplayer, you can and you'll 
 live to tell about it. I just played through on regular and I'm going to play through again on 
 hardened
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: step2ice
Rating: 5.5
Date: Nov 16, 2005 7:14 pm PT
Review:  Another sequel which is only a improvement in terms of graphic.
  
  COD 2 fits perfectly in the row of the latest followers.
  Appealing graphics but poor gameplay.
 
  I played the game for three hours and just couldn't get into it.
  The old COD was somehow ok, although I hadn't the motivation of playing through it a second time, 
 it had it's moments.
  COD2 couldn't even motivate me to go through it once.
  
  Things weren't improved, they even got worse:
  
  The game feels very uninspired. Leveldesign 
 is linear, enemys spawn right in front of you, you will have no ammo problems, weapon design and 
 animation is inaccurate and the game is also very short and strongly scripted.
  So, the main goal for the devs seemed the graphics.
  Well, it looks better then the first one, 
 which isn't really surprising, but it also has some nasty washed out textures especially at some 
 player models.
  Performance isn't very good either.
  The sound is ok but the weapons sound to weak and there is no hardware speaker detecting only the 
 useless EAX cr4p. Because of that, I had to play with 2D audio with my 4.1 system, poor.
  
  All in all this game is a clone of the first one. It's straight mindless action and it isn't even 
 as good as the prequel.
  Something for the casual gamer.
  
  If you want a good and fresh shooter, go for F. E. A. R.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Activisionist
Rating: 4
Date: Nov 16, 2005 3:29 pm PT
Review:  This is a downgrade from my point of view. I'm not talking about features from UO that are not 
 continued but a major simplfication from the earlier series.
  Yes the graphics are great and all but gameplay has been stupified.
  I'm just going to make a 
 summary of the things that bother me.
  These are mostly for multi-player gamemodes which are the bread and butter of the series. You play 
 the single player campaigns maybe 3-4 times and then you turn to the most important bit of the 
 game. The part that should keep it alive for years to come.
  
  -No anti cheat. This almost killed the original series and the developers should have learned from 
 this mistake
  
  -Icons that are clearly meant for console play.
  
  -Hitboxes are completely bogus. You can sit behind a wall, completely hidden from view by your 
 enemy and still get killed.
  
  -Nadecooking was not continued because the gametesters couldn't manage it. They blew themselves 
 up too often. (too me they should learn to count and watch "Monty Python and the holy grail" for 
 a lesson in grenade throwing...)
  
  -Several bugs from the originals are still in the game. The infamous left-lean bug. Server crash 
 exploit.
  
  -No continuation of the much apreciated HTTP-redirect option. This allowed people to download custommaps 
 and mods from a server that is set up specially for this without having to wait for a download 
 @ 15KB/s.
  
  -The working of the weapons is simplified. Not enough recoil on some. Too much damage or not enough.
 
  
  Even the single-player campaigns don't live up to my expectations. They proudly announced that 
 the Militairy Channel from the Discovery Network helped them in creating a historcally accurate 
 experience.
  Several weapons that don't belong in the settings, obsolete tanks etc. etc.
  To history buffs this has been a big big let down.
  
  Call of Duty is what Activision/Infinity 
 Ward call a franchise.
  Bear with me on this analogy.
  The SnackDonalds franchise is well known for their hamburgers, cheeseburgers etc. etc.
  When 
 you visit a SnackDonalds, no matter where in the world, the hamburgers are the same, cheeseburgers 
 are the same. Yes, you even get cheddar cheese (which doesn't sell in my country normally) .
  Even the dip for the french fries is the same all over the world.
  You know what to expect.
 
  What AV/IW did with CoD2 is like hamburgers without pickles. cheeseburgers with Swiss cheese instead 
 of cheddar.
  I think if SnackDonalds did something like this they would lose a lot of customers.
  And I think 
 Activision/Infinfity Ward risked this with CoD2.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: devilscallmedad
Rating: 9.1
Date: Nov 16, 2005 4:35 am PT
Review:  Call Of Duty 2 is an excellent and the best WW2 shooter available. It combines COD's features with 
 some new ones to create and intense and fresh FPS which is going to please all COD fans and newcomers.
 
  The game has great graphics though you will need a good PC to enjoy the game to the fullest. The 
 game has the best smoke effects seen in any game and the character models look quite good and the 
 enviroments feel realistic. The game hasn't much of a soundtrack but the ingame sounds are incrediable-from 
 the firing of bullets to the blasts of grenades it will feel natural all the time.
  The AI of the game is amazing and enemies will use all  
 to try to eradicate you the same is the case with your allies they won't just charge at the enemy 
 but will use all possible ways to try to keep themselves alive. You will fight in the battle alongside 
 many allies and enemy's almost usually 30 at any time and this gives the game a realistic war feeling 
 and u will be just another soldier on the battlefield not a superhero or something.
  You will play from the perspective of Russians, British, Amercians in different campagians and enviroments 
 like the deserts of Africa and the harsh winter of Moscow. Your health is quite Halo type u don't 
 have any health but if a few bullets hit u your vision gets bloody and a few more hits will kill 
 u but if u can find any cover the bluury vision will go away and u r just as good as new.
  The singleplayer campaign is about 15hrs and is quite intense the multiplayer of thye game will 
 also keep u hooked for a long tme.
  Overall COD2 is a great game which no WW2 shooter and FPS fan should miss. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mulder123
Rating: 9.6
Date: Nov 16, 2005 4:29 am PT
Review:  This game makes some modern shooters look ridiculous. The campaign is stunning. The gameplay just 
 takes you away and you forget all about the life around you. Where else can you see tanks jumping 
 right above you?
  I liked the game a lot my only reason for the score not to be perfect is the fact that there is 
 no Axis campaign. After all we have already seen these campaigns from the Allies in Call of Duty 
 . I really hoped to see something different and in this game. The sound is perfect it just misses 
 something, do not know what. This game is totally worth buying at any price. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: crabrocket
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 16, 2005 1:56 am PT
Review:  the  game of october why you not plat it
  go to your shop game and buy it
  why are you waiting
  call of duty 2 is the big on all around 
 the world 
  
  no     
      
     
  
  
      
   ?  
     
    
    
     
     
     
     
     
     
     
    
     
     
    
     
    
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LostCause420
Rating: 9.3
Date: Nov 15, 2005 6:53 pm PT
Review:  Call of Duty 2, this game deserves a purple heart in WWII games. Multiple stand points of the war 
 keep the game fun and more immersive. The graphics are really nice, especially when you blow something 
 up (the cloud of smoke/dust is phenomenal) . The game doesn't require a really good PC, and if you 
 do have a great computer you'll experience some pretty sweet graphics. The single-player is packed 
 with 27 missions, playing as the Russians, the British, and of course the Americans. After playing 
 through the intense single-player, you can take it online just like the original Call of Duty. 
 The online game modes are hella fun and you'll definitely enjoy it. The sound quality of the game 
 is just perfect. You'll hear other soldiers chatter their way through the battles, explosions of 
 missiles going off in the background, and the gun sounds are authentic and realistic. Bottom line, 
 if your in to the history of WWII or you just want to shoot Nazis then this is the game to get. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: metalXIII
Rating: 9.1
Date: Nov 15, 2005 4:44 pm PT
Review:  COD2 is basicly like COD, execpt better graphics and insanly smart AI. The game takes you through 
 3 campains, Russian, British and American. The single player mode is fun to go through once and 
 head back in again. If your like me you might go back to single player when you upgrade your computer. 
 The graphics are really amazing to me. I can't even play them on maxed out but there still great. 
 The smoke screens are on of the best. Things are heard to see. The AI can't see you for once. Speaking 
 of the AI they pretty smart. Pointing out enimes. Actually killing alot of them. Also the game 
 is straight forward, now you can head a couple different ways. 
  Now multiplayer I think is great. I can like max out MP graphics, it really feels amazing while 
 playing, like your in the battle. Up to 64players can be crazy. Battles tend to move from one are 
 to another, so like in one area in Team Death match, like 25 people against 25 people and trying 
 to kill eachother. Its pretty crazy.
  Overall this is a great game. Don't listen to people who say it sucks just because its just like 
 COD, or the MP is horrible.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: karlgauci
Rating: 8.1
Date: Nov 15, 2005 12:39 pm PT
Review:  The campain is so good you can almost live it. The game is one we have not seen in a long time 
 so spoilers will be kept to the minimum so you can experince the campain. something about the graphics 
 , splendid , it leaves behind a sensation of war , people are so real! something bad about the 
 game is that you do not have a health indicator, so you can't say when you are going to die!. Gameplay 
 is just right compined but with a slight non realism , when a team mate dies another one comes 
 instead. 
  
  Something about the multiplayer it's awesome just like CoD , CoD 2 gives great maps big a spledid 
 with a lot of new weapons!
  
  that was my review short but good ( at least i think so ) . You really outh to buy this game it 
 is splendid and well done. Activion's Number 1 game! Buy it... experiece it!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Worf101
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 15, 2005 11:07 am PT
Review:  I really enjoyed "Call of Duty" and "Call of Duty United Offensive", so it was with much anticipation 
 that I ripped open the box to C. O. D 2 . I haven't looked forward to a game such as this in a long 
 time and thus far it has proven well worth the wait. 
  
  Installation: I hope you've a pot of coffee on, some cigs and the patience of Job cause this thing 
 takes a long time to install. If ever a game cries out for a DVD install it s this one. SIX CD's 
 are required to load this puppy up and it takes a good 20 minutes to get it all on your machine. 
 and I'm running a good rig with a full gig of RAM. Nope, points off for no DVD install for this 
 puppy. 
  
  Graphics: Srunning is all I can say. They really upped the ante on graphics on this baby big time. 
 You can tweek the visuals to make this game a gorgeous or as simple as you like, it all depends 
 on your hardware and preferences. Even with the envelope pushed to the max I never had a stutter 
 or a freeze in hours of gameplay...
  
  Sound: Sound is as good as the original which was wonderful but it's a little less "bombastic" 
 than before and that's a good thing. Now there are lulls in the barrage that allows one to hear 
 the brrub of guns in the distance and drone of bombers overhead. Bullets and sound effects are 
 quite directional and you can hear the enemy coming at you before you see them if the background 
 noise is low enough. 
  
  Gameplay: As with it's predecessors, COD2 gives you marvelous single player gameplay, the first 
 time around. However, due to the scripted nature of the missions you'll have to play this game 
 on progressively harder levels to unlock all the missions and to get any replay value at all. On 
 the lower settings you get manageble numbers to kill and can take a lot of punishment on the higher 
 difficulty levels you die real quick and easy. Gone is hte scrounging for health packs. You get 
 hit you duck hide, and heal. I kinda like that more than the previous iteration. Your A. I. squad 
 mates are still stupid but they will save your bacon every once in a while. Smoke grenades are 
 an added plus but gone is the ability to sprint/run from "United Offensive". 
  
  Overall Rating: I'd have to give this puppy a 7.5 rating personally. A good game, but nothing new.. 
 nothing groundbreaking , just more of the same as before and that's not a completely BAD thing.
 
  
  Da Worfster aka 99th Worf101 
::::::

::::::
UserName: happyed
Rating: 8.1
Date: Nov 15, 2005 7:25 am PT
Review:  Awesome upgrade in graphics but the pacing of multiplayer is too fast... you die soo very fast 
 with this system of one shot kills - especially given that you basically cant miss what you aim 
 at... Fundamentally, the maps are too small.
  
  The sound is a bit much too... feels like im playing a console game with the constant clackity 
 clack of guns.
  
  The upgrade in graphics is HUGE and makes the game better. Only the small city maps from COD 1 
 were included tho... I want some tank battles!!!
  
  Hmmmm i guess i need s o m e m o r e w o r d s h e r e... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PCGF_Jay
Rating: 8.8
Date: Nov 15, 2005 6:06 am PT
Review:  One of the best modern FPS devlopers, surprisingly, have made really only 2 games for the PC: Call 
 of Duty and Call of Duty 2, but that didn't stop them delivering the surprising hit Call of Duty. 
 This means that its sequel has a lot to live up to.
  
  So. Call of Duty 2. What ACTUALLY is it?
  
  Once again you play the roles of different soldiers 
 caught up in the different fronts of the war. The Russians begin again, in Stalingrad, the British 
 start in Egypt, and the Americans meet D-Day again in an astonishing and jarring entry, probably 
 one the best levels in the game. The scripting in each of these missions is heavy, though not as 
 much as the original - you can now choose which objectives you do first in some missions - and 
 yet somehow these do not detract from the brilliance of the game. 
  
  Thankfully it does not fall into the same attrition type scenarios as the United Offensive expansion 
 pack for the original, meaning that your journey through the game is smooth, exciting, but doesn't 
 end up tiring you out as you bemoan another violent death. The new engine fits the game perfectly 
 well: in a new addiction, you can see where grenades land when they're near you, so that you can 
 avoid the messier death associated with this game. Guns thankfully do not get in the way as much 
 as the original did. This wasn't much of a problem in the original, but a nightmare on multiplayer. 
 I'll get back to that.
  The new engine too is capable of far more realistic animation, although people expecting ragdolls 
 like other modern games will be left disappointed. Although people will no longer fall through 
 the floot upon dying, it doesn't quite have the same effect. I suppose this is because of the more 
 realistic 'death,' i. e. soldiers who are not quite dead will try to shoot you with a pistol whlst 
 on the floor: a reference to Medal of Honour: Allies Assault, of which most of the team used to 
 be a part of.
  
  The missions themselves are full of drama, dragging you ever further into the unfolding action. 
 The American D-Day assault on the Pointe du Hoc is obviously spectacular.
  
  The multiplayer again is the pretty much the same as the original, with modes such as DM, HQ and 
 S&D making a welcome return to this version. The new engine brings a lot of gameplay changes, so 
 that newbies will be on a roughly equal footing as the old guard who played the original
  
  However, i must have criticism for this game. There are some parts where I was left slightly disappointed 
 that there wasn't much more action. Although the multiple, simultaneous objectives are a welcome 
 addition, I do sorely miss the on-rails sequences with Sgt Waters and Sgt Moody. I want to shoot 
 Nazis from an escaping car dammit!
  
  Should this stop you from buying CoD2? Hell no, go out and buy it, and have as much fun as I did. 
 Just don't expect for it to be on par with it's predecessor 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PandekarLaut
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 15, 2005 5:48 am PT
Review:  It's settled. Done. The only development team that should ever be allowed to make WWII shooters 
 anymore is Infinity Ward. The best way to clear a flooded market is to let the guys who know their 
 stuff monopolize it. As far as fast-paced, action-packed WWII shooters are concerned, I doubt that 
 anyone will do a better job than Infinity Ward, especially after what they pulled off with Call 
 of Duty 2.
  
  Sure, the game is not flawless, but as a sequel, it betters the series in many ways, and that is 
 certainly good enough for me.
  
  Once again the story, if you will, centers on soldiers taking part in some of the bloodiest conflicts 
 of World War II. It chronologically follows events that took place from 1941 to 1945, from the 
 perspective of a Russian, British and US soldier. As was the case in the original, players are 
 offered a choice between three "campaigns". Unlike in the original however, where the campaigns 
 were a bit longer and divided into consistent chapters, the campaigns in the sequel are split into 
 missions. Sometimes, by finishing a particular mission in a campaign, you will unlock a mission 
 from a different campaign, giving the players a chance to take a slightly less linear approach 
 to finishing the single-player game. The bad news here is that the single-player appears to be 
 even shorter than in the first game. I realize that the production values of top-notch game projects 
 are constantly increasing and that that in turn means that less and less content can be produced 
 in a specific amount of time, but conceptually speaking, the sequel felt a bit disjointed, like 
 a collection of missions rather than a consistent single-player campaign.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: mhandschuh
Rating: 9.4
Date: Nov 14, 2005 8:34 pm PT
Review:  This game is simply amazing to anyone who would even remotely enjoy a first person shooter or even 
 a World War 2 based game. Here's the rundown on the scoring.
  
  Difficulty can be easy to hard depending on the difficulty setting. On the hardest setting the 
 AI is relentless.
  
  Learning curve is almost nothing if you've ever played an FPS before. It uses the standard controls, 
 AWSD plus a center click for nade tossing. 
  
  Game play - 9
  Simply amazing. The AI is smart and dynamic, however they always follow your lead which is a tad 
 unrealistic by always waiting for you to advance first. I guess they think better you then them. 
 Overall, that's the only flaw I see in the game play. Call of Duty 2 trumps the Medal of Honor 
 series yet again with the "brother's in arms" concept. You always have friendly's near you which 
 helps to greatly add to the realism.
  
  Graphics - 10
  These graphics are perfect, but most configurations won't run on systems that aren't top notch. 
 I have two cards running together and they seemed to be able to handle COD2 with all the highest 
 settings including dynamic lighting, antistropic filtering, and shadows real time. Overall the 
 graphics are flawless by today's standards.
  
  Sound - 10
  If you have a good system you'll find yourself ducking for cover. There were many moments in the 
 SP campaign where I felt like I was there and I found my self screaming at the AI to get out of 
 the way of a Kraut frag grenade... all the no avail. The sound is this greatly added to the realism. 
 Amazing.
  
  Value - 10
  For all the fun I've had for only 50 bucks. I think that is self explanatory.
  
  Tilt - 9
 
  Without the tilt it would have been a 9.7 and this game isn't in the top 3% of games of all time 
 in my book, but definitely good enough to finish at a 9.4. Great job Activision. I highly recommend. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fallen_slayer
Rating: 8.8
Date: Nov 14, 2005 2:59 pm PT
Review:  Now I just got Call of Duty 2 several days ago and my god, this is a great game. Now I have the 
 original Call of Duty as well as its expansion, UNited Offensive, and there is a vast improvment 
 in the gameplay. 
  
  First of all, I like the new battle chatter system, where your squad mates call out the positions 
 of enemy soldiers and machine guns. The healthless meter is also a neat addition, and to thoses 
 ppl who say its not that realistic and the health bar is better, how is running aroung and picking 
 up health pacls of the ground any more realistic? The AI of both your squad mates and the germans 
 has also been greatly improved.
  
  Now my only complaint is that at times where there is a lot of smoke on the screen, you'll notice 
 that the frame rate will chug up a lot. Apart from that this game is great, and a must have 4 any 
 person who plays first person shooters. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gamerichard
Rating: 8.9
Date: Nov 14, 2005 1:49 pm PT
Review:  I'm a big fan of the first Call of Duty which was an impressive tour through the "best" bits of 
 World War 2 where you controlled the Russians, English and American troops in their fight against 
 the nazis. Now the sequel is here, and it's a lot more chaotic I can tell you that.
  
  The graphics in Call of Duty 2 are nothing short but brilliant. Ever inch of this game lookes brilliant. 
 The mud, the explosions, the soldiers... everything looks stunning. It's veird, but I felt that 
 the american mission looked especially good, and that's robably because of the fantastic scenery. 
 The invasion on D-Day has never looked this good. If there is one thing negative to say about the 
 graphics though, it's the fact that you can't destroy vases or any other object except those red 
 explosive barrels.
  
  The sounds are ear-smashingly good! There are so many sound effects in the air at once you become 
 dizzy! The sound from all the weapon, the shouting, the explosions... all of that makes this game 
 sound much like a car crash... in a good way that is! The music is also very good and classic, and 
 it's especially good when blended into the game while you're reaching the end of the mission. 
 
  
  Call of Duty 1 is one of the very best war games out there and it's a shame that the sequel doesn't 
 quite reach the classic. The sequel features more intense and chaotic fire fights, but it ends 
 up being maybe to chaotic with to little variation. The first Call of Duty featured a mission where 
 you had to hang out of the window of a small car while shooting like crazy at the germans. There 
 where on rail shooting, and even some exciting night fights. Call of Duty 2 is mostly just crazy 
 shooting all the way through. There are two tank missions in the middle of the game, and there's 
 a very short on rail shooting in here somewhere. One other negative thing about the game is the 
 lack of realism in the accuracy of your weapons. You can shoot a man from a 1000 feet right in 
 the eye without even concentrating! This isn't really a problem, it's just veird! And last, but 
 not least, the new health "meter" is just stupid! It's like the one in Halo, only there it fits 
 into the gameplay. You can get shot multible times, but suddenly the screen turns red and you'll 
 have to get to cover to recover. This isn't realistic at all, and creates a veird fealing of you 
 being this super soldier who can heal himself. But that's it for the negative. Call of Duty 2 is 
 just awesome. Don't get me wrong cause I even get myself wrong sometimes! This game features the 
 most intense and chaotic fire fights ever, and I mean it! There are coming shots from everywhere 
 and you spot grenades in all angles, your brain is now on the edge of collapsing! There are 27 
 missions in all where the first 7 are included in the Russian campaign, the next 13 in the English, 
 and the last 7 in the American campaign. You now also have the ability to replay the missions from 
 the missions selection in the main menu. This is great, cause here you can see what difficulty 
 levels you've completed the missions on and this makes the game more replayable. The game has some 
 high points that you're sure to remember, but the whole game is sort of a climax so it's hard to 
 find any favorite missions I think. The game features a new check point system so you can stop 
 thinking about saving all the time and that's good. Call of Duty 2 isn't a very long game, but 
 you'll be exhausted when you're done. Everyone that though the first Call of Duty was fun should 
 check this game out, everyone else: What's the matter with you!?
  
  +
  Stunning graphics. Sounds that'll smash up your ears. More chaos, and even more Germans for you 
 to shoot at. The music is great, and the whole mood in the game is very good. The new smoke grenades 
 work very well. D-Day is included!
  
  -
  The game becomes a bit too chaotic. The new health bar is not fitting into a realistic war game. 
 Your weapons are too accurat. Too little variation in the missions. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jaden_Antares
Rating: 9.6
Date: Nov 13, 2005 12:19 pm PT
Review:  When the demo finally was released, I couldn't believe what I was seeing. Smoke grenades!!! Beautiful 
 fire, smoke effects and of course, the smoke! it was like one big candybar, which I couldn't get 
 enough of. to this day and after a week of it's full release I am still enjoying it to the fullest. 
 after the 27 level long singleplayer game, there are always the multiplayer games. they are a lot 
 harder, but if you're a little battle hardened, you'll have a lot of fun playing on-line.
  
  the graphics, as I wrote before, are wicked! the smoke and fire look great, but the skin, walls 
 and clothing are beautiful, too. the sound effects are realistic, but the developers didn't overdo 
 the drama in the voices. Okay, If a Gerry is hit, he will yell for help, but youwon't hear any 
 dramatic screaming if you hit someone in the head with a sniper rifle. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: WRXRated
Rating: 9.4
Date: Nov 13, 2005 10:44 am PT
Review:  The single player game is alright, but who really bought the game for the single player aspect? 
 Not I. The multiplayer adds value of about an 11 out of 10 in my book. The guy that complains about 
 the multiplayer is a noob that probably just s*cks at the game. Either that, or he was playing 
 CTF or HQ and got spawn-slaughtered a few times. I'll admit that I dont like that too much myself, 
 but the Search & Destroy mode is really all that matters.
  The graphics are as good as any other game out there once you have enabled DX9 and set everything 
 to high or extra. Granted, you'll need a video card w/ at least 256 MB and a mem clock of over 
 500Mhz (GDDR3) . I have a Radeon 850XT PE and can run everything on the highest settings at 1280X1024 
 with framerates around 30 to 50 fps. This is good for the single player or watching demos. Granted, 
 this isn't the best for multiplayer. I simply change the graphics rendering to DX7 in the Graphics 
 option menu when I want to pay online and watch my fps skyrocket to over 100 (be sure to remove 
 the max fps ceiling 'com_maxfps 300') . 
  Who cares about AI? With that said, put the game's difficulty on high and you'll get yourself a 
 challenge. Sharp-shooting and good displacement is what you'll see your AI adversaries doing constantly. 
 Putting the difficulty on high will also add another 20 to 30% onto the length of the game (what 
 with dying left and right) , thus adding to the single player value.
  Sound is the simply amazing. I would say that it is much better than COD and UO, which was awesome 
 to begin with. Get yourself some $40 or $50 headphones and you'll see what I mean. The positional 
 audio (w/EAX3 enabled) is immersing and breathtaking. The guns sound polished and accurate to a 
 't'. 
  The only reason I didn't give the gameplay a higher score is because I sort of miss sprinting. 
 Also, I have some issues with the new weapons - they seem a bit stale when shooting and do not 
 provide the pop or recoil that they used to have in UO. There are cook mods out already to have 
 your nades cook before being tossed. Then again, I used to be a pro at cook-suicides in UO so perhaps 
 not being able to cook nades is a good thing. Otherwise, the gameplay is more user-friendly than 
 Counter-Strike. I think the new health feature makes it easier for the not-so-skilled players when 
 playing online. It kind of evens the playing field. I think all games in the future should have 
 this feature - no more hit points. However, the bash is a bit too strong. I think the designers 
 were trying to promote bashing when they made it because the bash is now a one-hit kill (even if 
 its in the foot) and you can bash someone from a yard away. 
  
  Bottom line is this: buy the game for the multiplayer, do the single player when you're board. 
 Either way, you will get your money's worth. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CamaroZ28c
Rating: 9.1
Date: Nov 13, 2005 10:06 am PT
Review:  Before downloading the demo for this game I hadn't had the pleasure of playing COD before. When 
 I started the demo I was blown away! It was so good that I had to run out and buy it right away. 
 The missions were all fun and I really liked the tank mission. The only problem is that after a 
 little bit of playing you start to realize that you are doing the same thing over and over. I found 
 myself getting bolder and bolder in an effort to make the excitement factor increase. Keep in mind 
 that I wasn't playing the hardest setting, so I'm sure that could also make things a bit more challenging. 
 I'm hoping that there will be some add on missions available online soon. So to summerize, this 
 game is awesome, it can cause your heartrate to increase, but nearly all the missions consist of 
 killing tons of nazies and then holding the spot from the counterattack. Awesome but repetitive... 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: julianlawson
Rating: 6.3
Date: Nov 13, 2005 8:37 am PT
Review:  I'm a huge fan of COD and the COD: UO expansion pack, so have been waiting for a while for this 
 release. Unfortunately, the developers don't seem to have covered any new ground with COD2: it 
 seems like the same old gameplay; closer to COD than United Offensive. It has a few new graphical 
 features, but unless you have top-of-the-line hardware you may need to turn these off. All in all, 
 a waste of money. For some reason, the checkpoint system seems more annoying than the original, 
 and the famous war quotes more grating than last time. I'm playing on the difficult level, and 
 many of the set pieces are quite tedious, with it taking perhaps ten goes before you get through 
 it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Menfear
Rating: 9.1
Date: Mar 11, 2006 7:18 am PT
Review:  Call of duty 2 is the second game in row including the expansion pack United Offensive for the 
 original. Activision brings in the game new life, better graphichs, outstanding sound effects and 
 some new "tricks". The multiplayer mode was also changed a lot, including new maps and some new weapons. This 
 is for my opinion the best WW2 game ever. Also if you are allready boring of WW2 shooter, this game 
 is a real spectatel so dont miss it.
  
  As in the the original game, also in Call of duty 2 campaign you will play as three soldiers in 
 diffrent factions. First you will play as a Russian private and you will battle the invading Germans 
 in Moscow and Stalingrad. After you beat the missions in the Russians campaign you will drop off 
 as a soldiers in the British army, most of the time you will battle in the sand-swept deserts of 
 North Africa alongside the Desert Rats against Field Marshal Erwin Rommel`stroops. The next campaign 
 is the American`s. Here you will be doing a D-day landing, but not in the Omaha or Utah beach, but 
 in the Point Du Hoc as a American Corporal. If you think that climbing sheer clifs is extreme, that 
 you have to feel how it is climbing them with artillery and machine-gun fire raining down on you.
 
  
  If you play the game on easy difficult, you wont really experience the hole athmosfere, so if you 
 want to experience the hole game better than you should play on the harder difficult level. You 
 will have be more carefull, you wont just ruh off and try to do something, instead you will play 
 like you were in the real life and the life is important to you.
  
  The missions its self are diffrent form each other. One memorable momebt in Russian campaign is 
 crawling through raised pipeline to sneak behind German lines and into a fortified factory building 
 .As you make your way to the factory you snipe Germans down and they spot you fast. They start to 
 shoot up the pepeline and its really cool how the bullets are making holes in the pipeline. In the 
 British campaign in Nort Africa you do like participate in night raids of small Tunisian towns, 
 climb up to the top of spires to call in artillery on enemy tanks, and even drive a tank yourself. The 
 American campaign has also got some moments, like climbing the cliffs in the Point Du Hoc or sniping 
 at German mortar crews from the top of a grain silo. So there is some diffrence and you cant say 
 that the missions are al the same.
  
  The objectives you will make are going to be from A-B-C and so on. Most of the time you will be 
 clearing houses and holding positions until reinforcments come. The singleplayer is all-in-all a 
 very nice experience, but the the reall thing why you buy this game is the multiplayer.
  
  The new "tricks" i talked about are for the singleplayer and the multiplayer very helpfull. One 
 new feature is the "hold breath"abbility, with it you can easly kill a foe without missing him once 
 or twice. The second new feature is that there is no life meter, just when you get cought in a heavy 
 fire or you get a shot frequently your screen will turn red as if blood were splattered across 
 the screen and if get shot once or twice more you will die, so you got to hide behind a object to 
 spare you life. Now there is no healt-boxes and packages that weren`t realistic, but with this action 
 they made something unrealistic, that when you get hurt if you just hide behind something your life 
 will full up to you maximum health, and you will be like new.
  And the third is the "shellshock" effect if a granade hits you or you are cought in a heavy fire 
 you will not hear well and you will be like droged. What is simply cool. Oh are there is no running, not 
 in singlerplayer not in multiplayer, what is like in the original, but im not sure why did they do 
 that.
  
  The mutliplayer mode is now even better from how it was in the original, and it was really great 
 but now its almost perfect. Lots of new maps been addet including three of old ones, but sure in 
 a lot better graphichs way. The old maps are Carentan, Brecourt and Dawnville that is now named as 
 St. Mere Eglise. The new are some maps in France, Russia and North Africa. There are also the Thrench 
 and the Greas gun. The Thrench gun is like a shotgun and the Greas gun like a silent uzi. Also i 
 found out that the pistols are now much stronger and you can easly kill a foe with it if you know 
 how to. Like in the multiplayer of the original you have combat modes that are versy  
 the flag, Headquarters and for me the best Search&Destroy. For every of this combat modes you really 
 need a good tactic to be the best, or be the worst. The "Killcam" is also here, its a camera that 
 shoes you from your foe`s eye`s the few last seconds of you life before you were full of bullets.
 
  
  The new maps are also a little smaller, so you will get to fight in seconds, the smalles map is think 
 is St. Mere Eglise, but its a cool map that you allready know from the original. The smoke granades 
 are outstanding, the graphichs of the smoke is really superb. And the granades dont have "coock off 
 granade"feature.
  
  Speaking of granades, the smokegranades are in singleplayer and mulstiplayer very usefull. Smonking 
 the fiedl in front of a machine-gun nest or a snipers nest. And its really looks fantastic, and also 
 its a real cool experiance runing through the smoked fields.
  
  Gameplay-Like all the WW2 shooters just with new style!
  
  Sound-the sound is one of the key 
 factors of Call of duty 2, and its superb
  
  Value-Yes, like in the original the multiplayer has tons to offer and so is the singleplayer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sethschroeder07
Rating: 9.4
Date: Nov 13, 2005 4:16 am PT
Review:  If your looking for a great single player game packaged with a great multiplayer game than look 
 no further than COD2. This game puts you back in the shoes of the three allied forces of WWII. 
 Going from Russia to North Africa to the Beaches and Beyond.
  
  At first you maybe be blowen away by the graphics that this game can put out but over time you 
 will realize that this is more than jus the graphics, its the whole experience. While dodging bullets 
 and laying down fire you'll be tossed into different areas of the Second Great War. Enemy AI can 
 get down right ruthless on the hard levels and can toss what seems like over 1000 garnades on your 
 position. In the end you will walk away with a great experience that is a little short but well 
 worth what you put down on the game.
  
  Where the replay value comes into play is the multiplayer. It is unsurpassed by any in the buisness 
 in aspect to the main styles of play. There is everything from deathmatch to capture the flag. 
 You can be entertained for hours on end while finding out where the good positions are to hide, 
 defend, or attack from on every map.
  
  Pros:
  Great Single player, epic style game play
  Multiplayer is very sound, one of the best on market
 
  Visuals are amazing
  
  Cons:
  If you only have single player to play, can become a little short
  Need a good graphics card 
 to show off all the visuals
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Toozer
Rating: 8.3
Date: Nov 12, 2005 8:45 pm PT
Review:  I am just now getting into it. What I like best is that you can jump from theater to theater. This 
 breaks up the routine nicely. My one complaint about the other popular FSP WWII shooter -- Brother 
 In Arms, is that you get one theater, one nationality, and one enemy. 
  On the other hand, what BIA offers is a less "arcadish" style game. How many troops will you kill 
 in ONE battle? 50? 100? maybe. A bit realistic -- but fun. BIA scenarios are much more scaled down 
 and therefore earn a better mark for realism. Also, you can control the squad instead of following 
 them around as in CoD and CoD 2 . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Oreoremedy
Rating: 9.7
Date: Nov 12, 2005 7:59 pm PT
Review:  This game is the best yet. The online is a it too much for me though. so.. many.. servers!!! In COD 
 1 i had version 1.3 so i had a little bit of servers. i was a Lt. but sadly in COD 2.. i suck. 
 Im Deadly Slumber so look me up sometime. This game has everything though.. graphics SOUND OMG!! 
 and gameplay. although i dont like how they remapped the grenade button to G. it really doesnt 
 fit for me. Oh well, that's about allthe complaints i have. The first one was good an this one 
 is even better. Its got everything you could need in a WW2 shooter. And even on regular difficulty 
 it gives you a reason to play. And you actually get into the story. Not just go here shoot that.. (i 
 hate those) you actually see into the lives and the struggle of the soldiers. Its as much a drama ( 
 can i say that) as it is totally AWESOME!! whew just buy it. you won't regret it. oh btw once again 
 this is better than its console counterpart. ( ihave both) for PS2 and PC. BUY IT!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gla001b
Rating: 9.6
Date: Feb 17, 2006 5:07 am PT
Review:  Call of Duty 2 is a stunning game. The graphics are amazing, even in a sandstorm or when a smoke 
 grenade was thrown. The textures were highly welcome, and were pretty good too.
  
  The weapon assortment is not just 4 guns... It is 3 rifles, 2 SMGs, 1 shotgun, and maybe a support 
 weapon. Also the details on those weapons are outstanding. The rates of fire are just right, from 
 the MG42, to the M1 Thompson.
  
  The missions are divided into 3 campaigns and get better as you go on. The objectives are always 
 achievable and never get repetative. Except in multiplayer, in multiplayer, the maps are varied 
 and I haven't even played them all. And yes, there is a D-Day mission NOTE: it is the best I've 
 EVER played.
  
  Definately a buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ChaosNoodle545
Rating: 4.7
Date: Nov 12, 2005 12:04 pm PT
Review:  Wow, I was so looking forward to this game, where do I begin?
  I'll make this short and to the point. 
  With COD2 you will have better graphics, (if your rig 
 can handle it,.. read some COD2 forums) , 
  With COD2 you will have better,... uhh.. err. Ehh? That's it?
  Yup, that's it, that's all folks, 
 better graphics.
  The singleplayer gameplay is so dumbed down that even my wife could kick ass, and her idea of a 
 challenging game is Tetris... FOR REAL!
  I suppose I could donate it to a middle school or an orphanage, but I havn't mentioned the multiplayer 
 aspect of this fiasco.
  Imagine having a nightmare where you try and swim through syrup, only to have beings with special 
 weapons that can see and fire through walls, and never miss, (even across the map on the other 
 side of a building in a ravine at night with a pistol) , blasting your ass every time you spawn, 
 and you'll have a good idea about multiplayer.
  
  And I'm a veteran of COD1 and UO! I've spent thousands of hours online playing those games and 
 was usually in the top three out of 50 players.
  
  I won't even go into the health issue or the no sprinting, no ranking, no recoil, easy as pie sniping, 
 no punkbuster issues. This game is just "ok" on singleplayer, (if you've played the original COD 
 and CODUO) , and multiplayer just plain sucks bad. 
  HUGE... HUGE.. letdown.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: slickr
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 12, 2005 12:40 am PT
Review:  The sequence to the best game of 2003 is here and what does it brings?
  
  Well firstly no big changes to the game. There are quite a few little changes and for me those 
 changes are for better. 
  The campaign is same as in Call of Duty, with different characters to play with. The campaign is 
 played in different places than from COD and COD expansion. You can play the campaign in story 
 mode or you can skip the story mode and start the British campaign/story.
  In story mode you start with the Russian campaign and continue with the British in Africa and so 
 on...
  
  The game play is the same as the original with very few changes. Those little changes i was talking 
 about are the health, grenade throwing and smoke grenade's throwing. The health change is that 
 you dont have any visual health indicator but as you get shot your screen will get bloody and 
 bloodier and if you are just about to die you will hear heavy hart breathing and thats the indication 
 that you need to get to cover, you then need only 5-6 seconds for your health to restore. The change 
 with the grenades is that you no longer need to press a button to get the bomb out and then throw 
 it, all you now need is press of a single button (default: G) . Also there are smoke grenades which 
 are very useful add-on.
  There are the standard World War 2 weapons but those are very detailed 
  The stages are very 
 detailed and very well worked out.
  
  Graphically the game has advanced best, and although on slower machines like mine you need to set 
 all the detail on low/med with 1024x768 or change to DX7 and then play it with all the details 
 and resolutions set at high. Everything looks so realistic and beautiful, but one thing that really 
 stands out is the smoke effect. It's the best smoke effect you have ever seen in a game.
  
  Sounds in the game are really something. The weapons have realistic sounds, even the reloading 
 on each weapon sound different. Bombs exploding have also very realistic sound, the voice action 
 is very good and pretty much every sound is made very well
  
  This is the best World War 2 shooter. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bob970
Rating: 9.6
Date: Nov 12, 2005 12:25 am PT
Review:  The original Call of Duty kicked off almost every mission with some sort of major scripted event. 
 In Call of Duty 2 you are treated to some History videos explaining what major event you will be 
 playing through.
  
  The battles are intense and neverending. At times it seems as if both your allies and enemies have 
 infinite spawns, but eventually you'll make progress on the battlefield.
  
  Speaking of killing Nazi's, controls are smooth, and your ability to kill in one or two shots goes 
 up fast. Using the right mouse to bring up the sites on every weapon is a must in most situations. 
 And you will quickly learn to double tap every enemy that hits the ground. Even if they drop their 
 main weapon as they go down, they'll pull out their pistol and take a few shots as they die.
  
  The battles are just as intense if not more as they have always been in the series. Smoke, 
 dust, gunfire, and explosions rock your screen and your speakers. The visuals and audio are both 
 top notch. If your PC is a performer, it will start feeling like you are really in battle franticly 
 trying to search out a sniper, or knock out a machine gun nest.
  
  AI is fairly decent overall. You'll see quite a few allies walk right out in front of an MG42 and 
 get mowed down. But hey, more ammo for you right? Get used to picking up German weapons though 
 because you will be firing off a lot of rounds. And grenades are a must for just about any building 
 clearing, but can be picked up just as fast as they are tossed.
  
  The game takes roughly 8-12 hours to beat depending on your skill and the level of difficulty. 
 Its definitely worth playing through again several times though, or you can take your infantry 
 skills online. Multiplayer starts off frustrating, since you typically get killed from one or two 
 shots, but you get used to the flow of the game quickly. The realism factor drops on a few close 
 in maps as you'll see people jumping off of roofs firing of their shotguns which can get pretty 
 annoying.
  
  The only real downsides on this game are if your computer is a little outdated or if you dont play 
 online. You'll lose all the beauty of the game, and it can slow down at times depending on your 
 settings. And if you only play single player, you'll have to weigh the replayability of the single 
 player campaign. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hakisak
Rating: 6.8
Date: Nov 11, 2005 11:05 pm PT
Review:  I am a Call of Duty veteran and have played consistently since its original release. I converted 
 over from Medal of Honor and I had doubts that Call of Duty could be better, but it was. I have 
 anxiously awaited COD2 and bought it the day after its release. The single player missions for 
 COD2 were outstanding and well thought out and allow for a certain amount of re-playability, I 
 finished them all. The multiplayer portion of the game looks to have been rushed out and not very 
 well thought out, perhaps they are banking on updates and mods to enhance the multiplayer game 
 in the future but as it stands at release, I find it wholly inadequate. First off, there is no 
 Base Assault, come on, that was a popular multiplayer game in COD UO, and one of the best chances 
 for us to try out tank combat in the new game. Secondly, I was disappointed to find remakes of 
 old maps, that really left me with a bad taste in my mouth, if I wanted to play those maps I will 
 go back to COD or COD UO. I also miss PunkBuster, because cheaters simply ruin the game. To sum 
 up, I give COD2 a huge, thumbs up on the single player game, and a big thumbs down on the multiplayer 
 game. Keep in mind almost all of the re-playability comes from the multiplayer game, and to put 
 out a poor multiplayer game in my mind was a big mistake. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sayne
Rating: 4.3
Date: Nov 11, 2005 10:37 pm PT
Review:  This game, quite frankly, made me angry. At the outset, it is very fun. Intense, Immersive and 
 gritty. But once you start getting into the British mission (and ESPECIALLY the later levels) the 
 laziness of the developers becomes apparent. The AI knows exactly where you are at all times. Flank 
 an MG Position? The moment you lay eyes on them, they ALL shoot at you. It doesn't even require 
 you to shoot your gun; sight the enemy, the AI knows you're there. Your buddies sit there blasting 
 away at the Germans, but it doesn't matter, they ALWAYS only shoot at YOU. I can't tell you how 
 many times I've flanked a house, no AI saw me get there, but the moment I step inside the door 
 there's a Kraut there who immediately cracks me over the head with his gun. No reaction time, nothing. 
 The AI clearly either knows exactly where the player is at all times, or the engine spawned that 
 NPC there a moment before I walked in the door. It happens all the time, without fail. 
  
  The developers also have this love for "waves of Germans while you defend." This happens a lot 
 in the game, and it simply consists of you plopping yourself behind a machine gun, or if no MG, 
 simply behind cover, and shooting down every German that spawns behind a wall or behind fog or 
 somewhere off screen only to walk in front of you. They then go to a spot and wait to die, or come 
 crashing in somewhere BEHIND THE PLAYER so you get shot in the back. I'm no newbie to shooters, 
 I know what I'm doing, and it's very frustrating when an enemy that you had no idea existed bashes 
 down the door behind you, ignores your comrades and kills you. 
  
  The AI are dumb as posts, but what makes me set the AI to Hard is that you just get so damn angry 
 at the laziness of the developers in their AI, their enemy placement, the ENDLESS SUPPLY of STUPID 
 Germans that come over walls and from places you cannot see. I've beaten Far Cry on the harder 
 settings without getting this ANGRY at the AI, because Far Cry's AI is truly smart, they pay attention 
 to the environment; these Germans are just omniscient. And of course, once they spot you, they 
 ignore everyone else and only blast away at you. It's infuriating and insulting. 
  
  The sound is amazing; better than COD 1 in every way. The graphics are good, and really look like 
 war during WW2. But the AI and game play kill all the good points. 
  
  The game had such great potential, but the developers killed it with the insane crappy human wave 
 attacks, enemies that spawn literally the instant before you round the corner, and stupid yet omniscient 
 AI. I finished it with a scowl on my face and a bad headache. 
  Lazy lazy lazy level design and planning. Not worth it. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: raptor96
Rating: 8.9
Date: Nov 11, 2005 2:39 pm PT
Review:  After playing Medal of honor for what seemed like years, a game called Call of Duty hit the market. 
 I absolutely drooled over the interface and the realism of the weapons and the enemy AI. Nothing 
 like hearing that destinctive "PING" when you fired that 8th shot out of your M1 Garand, heh? Medal 
 of Honor lacked such details, and the environment just seemed to grow old. Now COD II is out and 
 is the best yet. My only complaint is the sound effects given to the mortor rounds as they are 
 falling to the ground; it sounds kinda cheesy almost like they recorded some guy whistling. Anyway, 
 the game is great and I recommend it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: anDy-PeNGuiN
Rating: 9.4
Date: Nov 11, 2005 2:25 pm PT
Review:  Hey, I loved CoD and thought fantastic when i heard about this new release!
  Having only played the Demo this game certainly shows brilliant potential, With new battles, features 
 and brilliant Visuals this game certainly makes you feel like your in the middle of a huge war, 
 something that the previous game did well. All the weaponry is back as well, Brens, Stens, Thompsons 
 enfields alike. Possibly what makes this game great is...... THE SOUND!
  the sound is simply one of the best ive heard from war games.
  
  Shame that my graphics card 
 is weak, As i coudnt see the visuals properly with a geforce 4800.
  
  I hope to purchase this game as soon as someone buys me a new geforce at xmas :D
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: bongadadu
Rating: 6.8
Date: Nov 11, 2005 6:44 am PT
Review:  I simply cant belive this, all fans of the origional call of duty series were anxiously waiting 
 for cod2s release but when it finally got out man was i disspointed. Activision really messed up, 
 they had everything perfect going on in cod and cod uo. Cod 2 is a good game with even better graphics 
 new weapons and all that but it simple tries and fails to top. First off the new health system 
 is Okay doesnt really dissapoint that much. The major dissapointment in this game is the fact that 
 activision took out the sprint (amazing addition to cod uo) , took out cooking the grenades (another 
 very tactical addition to uo) . And i hate the fact that u cant hold a grenade in ur hand u just 
 press a button and u throw it so yea no more grenade bashing or cooking which really SUCKS. IF 
 only activision had included all those elements of uo and simple added on a bit more this game 
 would have been the best ever created but it didnt. 
  It tried but failed misrably 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CerpinTaxt85
Rating: 9.3
Date: Nov 11, 2005 12:55 am PT
Review:  While this game is pretty much the same as the first... the fun factor is still there. To this 
 date, i believe CoD is the best WWII shooter out there. This sequel was well worth the wait.
  The main thing i love about CoD2 is the intense, ongoing fire fights. This is what it makes it 
 stand out from all the other FPS WWII games. Another thing that some people dislike is the health 
 system. I do agree, to some extent, that it should have no been implemented the way it was... but 
 at the same time i like it. I prefer not to go searching for a health pack every so often but when 
 the blood begins to slowly creep from the sides of your screen and your getting hit from bullet 
 after bullet... its an awesome feeling.
  Even though some agree this game is an exact clone of CoD, or the fire fights in CoD are better 
 than the ones in CoD2... this game still pulls it's weight, respectively.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: vermouth
Rating: 8.7
Date: Nov 10, 2005 7:40 pm PT
Review:  How many times do we need to win World War II? I mean since Ive been playing computer games Ive 
 been involved in the simulation of almost every battle in the European theatre of war. Flight Sims, 
 War games and most recently first-person shooters have taken reliving the most amazing war in history 
 to new heights time and again. The Latest of these Is Infinity Wards latest shooter Call of Duty 
 2. If you were tired of shooting Nazis before you played this you can stop right here as this game 
 doesnt offer anything terribly new to the experience of paying the Butchers bill to take Europe 
 back from the grip of Tyranny. However if shooting up the Wermacht still holds your imagination 
 then Call of Duty 2 is one of the best titles to ever grace the European theatre. While it largely 
 takes an, if it isnt broke dont fix it approach it manages to fix a few things that were slightly 
 annoying for a nice incremental improvement. 
  
  The First call of Duty used a modified version of the aging Quake 3 engine to render its battles. 
 And while it certainly looked good, it certainly wasnt so much of a looker. This game uses a new 
 engine coded from the ground up to render its rather beautiful visuals. One of the best effects 
 the game has is that its got both the ability to show a whole lot but also the ability to render 
 very good detail. While all the character models arent unique there are plenty enough so that 
 it doesnt feel like youre fighting a clone army. Another area where the game excels is smoke; 
 it does some of the most life like smoke effects Ive ever seen in a game. Smoke Grenades provide 
 a thick wall of smoke that you just cant see through try as you may. 
  
  Even better than the graphics though is the games wonderful audio. The sound effects sound just 
 like the real guns turn the volume up and they have full sounds and make very powerful firing sounds. 
 Even better is the ambient use of voice during missions. People are constantly screaming about 
 how Jerry is up over there and the Germans are constantly screaming something in German but Ill 
 be darned if I know what it is. Sadly the Russian soldiers still speak English. It would have been 
 interesting to have an option for Russians to speak in Russian with subs or something but no dice 
 there. If all that wasnt enough, the music to this game is wonderful. If they made a soundtrack 
 for this game Id want to get it. Theyve got a full orchestral score thats edited very well to 
 peak right when the game peaks. 
  
  The presentation is important in a game like this but the real core of the experience is how the 
 game plays and it does what it sets out to do very well. Once again the game is divided into 3 
 campaigns to represent each of the Big 3 powers of the Allies. While defeating Hitler was a multinational 
 effort the majority of the men and materiel came from England, America and the Soviet Union. Once 
 again the Soviet campaign was the most interesting to me but it was somewhat disappointing that 
 they came back to Stalingrad for the bulk of it. While this was certainly a hugely significant 
 battle there were several other places to tell the story of and theyve now focused on the battle 
 for that city two games in a row. Id like to see some more of the rest of this front in a future 
 Call of Duty game. The American and British campaigns were really nice too with a decent variety 
 of objectives to complete but they all basically were from a well of established mission types. 
 Attack and secure an area, defend, escort, defeat special weapon so tanks can go through etc. The 
 new take on D-Day was a fresh one opting for the Rangers attack on Pointe Du Hoc up the cliffs 
 instead of the tried and true Omaha Beach. 
  
  While there was no reinventing the wheel in terms of gameplay, what we have works they did some 
 nice tweaking. Probably the most interesting choice was the decision to do away with health packs. 
 This isnt going to be a realistic experience like Brothers in Arms. Rather you now have infinite 
 health but you can only take so much at once. As such you can constantly stay in firefights and 
 if you get hit you neednt hunt down a specialized box but rather just keep your head down for 
 a bit. Furthermore the AI was a good deal better. In the few parts of the game that really frustrated 
 me you could really see what was scripted and what wasnt and the enemy was a good deal smarter 
 about when to attack you using grenades, melee and guns and when to retreat etc. One other nice 
 thing is the levels are clearly a bit bigger and freer roaming. Im not sure how many alternative 
 pathways they really have through them as most times youre forced into a side street by overwhelming 
 fire not because you think thatll be the best bet. This isnt necessarily so bad because it lets 
 you enjoy the excellent firefights more and not try to plan everything out. The one thing I didnt 
 like was how easily tanks were dispatched. Youll face some on a lot of missions and theyre pretty 
 easily dispatched. I think it would have been better had the game had a few less and made them 
 somewhat more difficult; mainly because it would have given killing a tank a much higher degree 
 of satisfaction. 
  
  The one real complaint I have with the game is its pretty short at around 8 hours give or take 
 a few based on level of skill. Its also heavily scripted so youll see the same things no matter 
 how often you play it. And unlike Brothers in Arms it doesnt have much of a story other than setting 
 up the history of whats going on and whats gone on. It tells a bit of a story but no more than 
 the original. I found the Ronald Regan speech from the 40th anniversary of D-Day to be a nice touch 
 to close out the Pointe Du Hoc Mission as he was a great speaker and that speech was excellent 
 but it didnt really involve me in any way beyond a fun shooting gallery. Further its got pretty 
 much the same multiplayer I didnt care for in the original. Its very slow paced for deathmatch 
 team deathmatch etc. No new ground was really broken here but if youre up for more WW2 standard 
 multiplayer then youll g et a kick out of this I suppose. 
  
  All in all, if you liked Call of Duty then youll enjoy Call of duty 2. If you thought the first 
 game was getting kind of tired you wont find it so much fun. Its just like that game in most 
 regards only better in a lot of detail examinations. Its one of the best WW2 shooters on the market 
 but the market is approaching saturation for a lot of people. It may not be a perfect game, it 
 may not radically change everything but its a very pleasant experience to play through. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: mjolnir334
Rating: 8.1
Date: Nov 10, 2005 6:04 pm PT
Review:  The original Call of Duty provided a breath of fresh air into the WW2 genre. Now nearly two years 
 later Call of Duty 2 has arrived. COD2 features many new additions to gameplay. One of the biggest 
 changes is the health bar, it's gone. Now if you take too much damage your vision will become a 
 bit red and will have to find some cover in order to regain your health. Although this is unrealistic 
 it helps to keep the pace of the game fast and furios.
  
  The campaign starts you off as a russian soldier and although the battles do not seem to be quite 
 as large as the previous russian battles in COD 1 they are still a blast to play and often have 
 you sneak up behind a tank in order to plant a satchel. The british campaign, just like the last 
 game, seems to be the least satisfying of the three. Some of the battles are great fun but I often 
 felt that I was a one man army, especially when commanding a tank. Although to it's credit the 
 last set of levels in 1944 were among the best in the game. The last campaign is the americans, 
 and even though we play as them in nearly every World War 2 game they manage to have the best campaign. 
 Starting with Point du Hoc, the american campaign keeps uping the anti with battles becoming increasingly 
 chaotic.
  
  But even though COD 2 may have all these great features it still has it's problems. Just like the 
 last game it is still linear. There are times were forced to take the enemy head on not being able 
 to flank them anyway whatsoever. Another problem is the physics. There aren't really any. Since 
 they don't use ragdolls some of the deaths look out of place and can just look silly with such 
 pretty graphics. My final complaint with the game is the length of the singleplayer. I passed it 
 in under seven and a half hours. I was really disapointed to see this, especially when the game 
 was six disks.
  
  Overall though Call of Duty 2 is a great game as long as you can accept the linear gameplay and 
 short singleplayer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: polishhoodie
Rating: 9.4
Date: Nov 10, 2005 2:41 pm PT
Review:  You might not agree with my review because i really like the COD series but i really enjoyed this 
 game. The better graphics really add to the gameplay even though it is a lot of the same stuff 
 as the first. I really enjoy the online multiplayer which i play constantly ( giving it replayability) , 
 althogh they shouldnt have taken out the different game types. The sound is incredibly authentic 
 and realistic. The games controls are simplistic and it has an ingame teaching method that allows 
 you to fight while learning controls. The method of showing damage in this game is origional, im 
 not sure if i liked it but it saved time from searching for health packs. The tilt in this game 
 is really good and I really like the realism in this game where guns have different power and where 
 your shot determines damage and also the fact that you cannot beat this game without your allies 
 and randomly charging into combat. (in hard mode at least) The enemy ai is good and allows battles 
 like in real wars. Overall i believe this is the best WW2 shooter on the market. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: oldy_van_moldy
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 10, 2005 10:54 am PT
Review:  See it , love it , buy it. Just one test and you're hooked. the sheer realism of war is represented 
 here. just one grievance. their should be an option to turn on actual blood. the gameplay is perfect. 
 the graphics are perfect, the sound is perfect. the ai is perfect. the characters are perfect. 
 heck even the germans are perfect. the multiplayer is perfect. you'll play thourght it once and 
 you'll want to play it through another twenty times. not to mention the multiplayer.. BUY THIS OR 
 LIVE A HORRIBLE CALL OF DUTY 2 FREE LIFE!!!! dont forget to pester your friends until they buy 
 call of duty 2 also! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ericorp
Rating: 8.3
Date: Nov 10, 2005 7:51 am PT
Review:  Let me just start by saying that I am a HUGE fan of the call of duty series, and that I thought 
 the first game was the best PC game ever made. It was fun, intense, and the multiplayer was addictive 
 and rewarding to skilled players who learned the intricacies of the weapons, levels, etc.... I 
 have probobly beaten both the CoD and its expansion at least 4 times on the Veteran difficulty, 
 and played the multiplayer all the time, becoming quite good at it.
  
  As most people reading this are familiar with the new additions/changes to CoD2, I won't describe 
 them, simply offer my opinion on each. 
  
  I believe the new health system is quite good. The fact that all you have to do to regain maximum 
 health is to lay low for a while means that you will be dying less, which keeps the game flowing. 
 It must be said that this game is probobly harder than the first one, as there are hordes of germans, 
 and a lot of close quarter fighting in CoD2. Without a doubt, having the old medpack system in 
 this game would have seriously slowed it down, forcing the player to become overly cautious. As 
 we all know, CoD isn't really meant to be the most realistic game, but the most exciting and intense. 
 
  
  The grenade indicator is also an addition that doesn't really change the game that much. Again, 
 in this game, there are A TON more grenades than in the first one. Germans will throw dozens of 
 them at you, with very good accuracy. With so many 'nades flying around, it becomes crucial to 
 the flow of the game that the player doesn't just blow up every 5 seconds for no apparent reason. 
 I believe the grenade indicator be a good addition to this game under the circumstances. However, 
 I also believe that the designers got over enthusiastic with the number of grenades in the game, 
 and it would have been better off without them, making the grenade indicator useless.
  
  The smoke grenades are terrific. It simply has to be said. When you are being stared down and pinned 
 in place by an MG42, it is so exciting to toss a smoke grenade out and just run from cover to cover 
 as you charge the gun emplacement. Conversely, when you are manning a machine gun and the enemy 
 uses them on you, it is incredible to see hordes of germans charge out of a cloud of smoke directly 
 at you.
  
  For some odd reason, the ability to sprint short distances, introducted in the expansion, has been 
 eliminated. This makes no sense to me, as sprinting kept the pace fast, and added a good 'escape' 
 from sticky situations. Moving at the same speed all the time just feels bland and boring. It also 
 makes it feel much more like a video game than it should.
  
  As we all know, CoD introduced the idea of aiming down the sight of the weapon. It was a fantastic 
 idea, and has bee recreated many times in games since then. It still exists, and is more important 
 than ever to the game. That is because your 'aimer' dissapears when you are moving, and even when 
 you aren't, it is much wider than in CoD1. It is virtually impossible to hit anything with accuracy 
 witout aiming down the sights now, even if you are lying prone (a couple of weapons are an exception) . 
 Which brings us to multiplayer.
  
  The fantastic mulitplayer is back, but it seems to be a little worse than the last time we saw 
 it. There are new levels, of course, but there are also updated forms of old favorites. Now that 
 aiming is that much harder, and the grenade indicator is in effect, getting kills is much harder 
 than before. The game definitely favors the two extreme types of gamers; the rifle experts will 
 enjoy success, and the run and gunner (ppsh anyone?) will also know success. 
  
  Basically, this is still a terrific game, but die-hard fans of the original will be slightly dissapointed. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LionQ
Rating: 7.8
Date: Nov 10, 2005 5:39 am PT
Review:  Call of Duty 2 is the latest product in the World War II shooter genre, not being innovative in 
 any way. However, the tested-and-trusted formula of this genre has been worked out excellently 
 once again. This game is immersive and really gives you the feeling you're contributing to your 
 country's efforts to win this war. Of course the sound is great again, as are the graphics. You 
 won't get a lot of time to enjoy these graphics though, due to the past-paced and chaotic nature 
 of this game.
  
  The game's single player campaign kicks off in Russia. The tutorial is very short, but very efficient: 
 it teaches you anything you need to know in a very short period of time. After that, you're going 
 to be part of the battles in Moscow and Stalingrad. A squad will support you throughout the entire 
 game and you'll want to stick with them as well. The game assigns you with specific tasks as taking 
 down planes in northern Africa, placing sticky bombs on the doors of the bunkers at Hill 400 and 
 sniping MG42 gunners in Stalingrad, for example. The game's vignette system lets you unlock the 
 English and American parts of the campaign at certain points. However, there's actually no reason 
 to ignore the storyline. The game's plot isn't that strong already, so you might want to stick 
 to it by just consisently playing the next mission. This will bring you in northern Africa after 
 you fought in Stalingrad. The British part of the game lets you drive a tank in the African desert 
 and you will be able to call in artillery strikes on enemy tanks in a certain mission. The American 
 campaign starts at Pointe du Hoc, one of the most impressive missions of the game. Furthermore, 
 you won't soon forget the intense battles you'll have to win at Hill 400.
  
  As said, the campaign is divided in missions. The game counts ten of them, each preceded by a broadcast 
 of the Military Channel. The missions themselves have been split up in stages, preceded by diary 
 entries of your character. The game is quite easy on the regular difficulty level, but appears 
 to be more tactical and longer on the higher difficulties. The value of the game is a bit low though. 
 You can blast through the game quite fast and, moreover, most part of the game isn't worth being 
 replayed, due to all the scripting.
  
  Call of Duty 2 delivers an excellent World War II experience - if you haven't had enough of that 
 recently, of course. Especially the American missions give you a really good impresion of what 
 those USA soldiers have been through on European soil during these years. Though the objectives 
 usually seem to be more of the same throughout the game, you'll get the feeling you're really making 
 contributions to your country's progress in winning the war. Also, the music score that kicks in 
 at the end of every mission stage brings some glory in the game, in contrast to anything that's 
 happening in your surroundings.
  
  The gameplay is good overall. Infinity Ward lets you fight a nice-programmed AI. You won't have 
 the feeling the AI is cheating in any way; all fights seem to be fair. That, of course, still means 
 you can't just rush to a tank to stick your explosives on it. Moreover, the game doesn't come with 
 a health bar and medics. You can take a certain amount of damage and after that you'll just need 
 to take cover, so you can recover and enter the battle healthy again. The gameplay has one major 
 fault though; your freedom is very limited. It's true you are in a war and have to obey orders, 
 but you can rarely choose your own path to complete your objectives. You'll get the feeling the 
 game channels you along certain paths, so you'll run properly through all of Infinity Ward's scripts. 
 The minefields in Africa and the European streets with barbed wire make that there's actually only 
 one path to follow.
  
  So far for the gameplay. Call of Duty 2 looks great and is stunning at some points. The effects 
 are, to be honest, cinematic; you won't soon forget the dense smoke walls or enormous explosions. 
 The player that takes a good look at his squad mates' faces will have a joyful moment as well. 
 These faces look superb and show realistic expressions. However, Infinity Ward's focus on great 
 effects leads to a quite big graphics setback: the maps look poor. The houses and other buildings 
 all look nice and such, but the environments themselves look just average and particularly the 
 player that takes a look on long range will just see an ugly 2D background that looks like a painting. 
 The game's rapid pace and chaotic nature will distract you from this, but it's still a setback.
 
  
  Furthermore, you can't expect more from the sound; it's perfect. We already mentioned the music 
 score that kicks in at the end of every missions, but the voice-overs and weapon sound effects 
 are excellent. The accent of captain Price will make you smile every now and then and the weapon 
 sound effects give you the right feeling. Also, there are a few moments when the game suddenly 
 enters a few seconds where it's totally silent nearby. However, in the background there's an ever-repeating 
 track with explosions, engines and gunfire that really gives you the feeling that there are other 
 Allied squads battling Nazis a few kilometers away. Another reason to call this game immersive.
 
  
  As a last point, there's of course the multiplayer mode. It offers short loading times and the 
 same fast pace and chaos you'll encounter when doing single player. Note that on quite some servers 
 smoke grenades will continously keep popping up from everywhere, which can drastically decrease 
 the frame rate for some people out there. But of course the multiplayer is a lot of fun and is 
 a nice addition to the game's single player mode. The replayability of the multiplayer is also 
 low though, because the game lacks any kind of permanent player statistics or high-score boards. 
 This will soon start to give you the feeling you're battling the same area over and over again 
 with little or no use. To put it shortly and contradictionary: the Call of Duty 2 multiplayer mode 
 gets boring when you get the hang of it.
  
  To conclude, Call of Duty 2 is a quite good game with perfect music and sound. The game has some 
 setbacks though, for example that there's no two-path philosophy: there's usually only one path 
 you're able to go. This decreases the game's value, as well as the game's scripting does that. 
 The multiplayer mode is a cool addition, but also has little replayability. Furthermore, the game's 
 graphics look great due to the truly cinematic effects, but on the other hand, the maps and environments 
 look poor. So, Infinity Ward's 2nd call to duty is good-looking and immersive, but won't keep you 
 around for long; though it offers perfect sound, it also comes with little replayability. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Terdog
Rating: 9.1
Date: Nov 10, 2005 1:30 am PT
Review:  I was really looking forward to COD 2, and I am very grad i waited for it. THe game is incredible. 
 First off though if this is your first time playing an FPS, , , don't start with this, its freaking 
 intense, and even on normal, the game is no cakewalk.
  
  You again play in the American/British/Soviet campaigns, and its a good way to see how the way 
 was fought on three different fronts. Graphically, its amazing. one of the best games ive ever 
 seen, and it scales back on older hardware very well. The sound is easily the best part of the 
 game though. Gunshots go off around you, men are screaming orders, and explosions go off with a 
 very loud boom.
  
  The game does its health meter quite a bit differently though. If you take too much damage, the 
 edges of the screen will turn red, and it will keep filling the screen until there is only a small 
 area of visible space in the middle. There is also a greanade indicator for those pesky things. 
 And that is something i want to see in every FPS from now on. Its very handy to know where the 
 grenade landed, and get away from it.
  
  You can only carry 2 weapons at a time, plus your smoke grenade and standard grenade. The smoke 
 grenades are awesome. Your team will use them as cover when one is tossed, but use em wisely.
 
  
  The mission types are a bit common from the first game, but still better than the Medal of Honor 
 games, and instead of 2-3 NPC's backing you up, you can have 10 of them at times fighting with 
 you.
  
  Overall, the game was worth the wait, even though the difficultly is really high. Give Call of 
 Duty 2 an 9.1 out 10 for me 
::::::

::::::
UserName: yehiazz
Rating: 8.9
Date: Nov 10, 2005 12:01 am PT
Review:  The Game is really awesome, I liked the starting video demo in the begning of the game, it is even 
 better than the Medal of Honor Series, i liked the game very mush, and i recommended to anyonethat 
 is really addicted to those kind of shooting games of World War 2, really it's Awesomeeee. The 
 Only dissadvantage i found in the game was the enginge used in this game, i mean it's you could 
 not crach the woods on a broken mirror you cannot move abox or a barell from the way, like in Half 
 Life, i guess the game need to be better with the AI and all of these things, but overall the game 
 play is really cool. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fightforglory
Rating: 9.3
Date: Nov 9, 2005 8:01 pm PT
Review:  Well this is a good game but its essentially the same thing as Call of Duty that was released in 
 2003 and got GOTY. That was a truly revolutionary game. There are a few new additions though. Better 
 graphics, new guns, completely new maps and scenario.
  When you first jump into the game the first thing you will see is the graphics so this is where 
 i will start. You will notice an improvement but not a major one. It is nothing like the difference 
 between Half-Life 1 and Half-Life 2. Heres something many people do not like: No ragdoll physics. 
 If you do not yet know what that is it is physics for the characters where when something blows 
 up they go flying through the air without their course being pre-planned out. Well in CoD2 there 
 are death animations meaning the game engine randomizes what a person will do when they are killed. 
 There are hundreds of them but it is still not as satisfying as actual physics. Another thing is 
 this engine was very poorly designed no matter what your specs are. Most people with great computers 
 would expect to be able to set everything as high as they go and get 60+fps but this is not the 
 case. Bad computers even on low sometimes experience lag. The engine does do a good job of having 
 many soldiers on screen at one time during the American Campaign though.
  Gameplay well if you had played any PC CoD game you already know what this will feel like. If not 
 you will experience a great feel for this game. Makes you feel like you are shooting the gun. It 
 is very intense just like its older brothers.
  Sound guns all sound good and so does the environment and all. So sound is excellent.
  Now lets 
 get to the multiplayer. Its just as much fun as the original with all new maps. Headquarters seems 
 to be a very popular mode in this game now. You can still play all the classic types. Basically 
 the multiplayer makes the game worth it if you are a Call of Duty fan that doesn't want to spend 
 $50 on a game that you will beat and never play again. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: flipisgod
Rating: 9.2
Date: Nov 9, 2005 2:23 pm PT
Review:  Call of Duty 2 is a fantastic game. It truly makes you feel you are part of the combat. This game 
 is not merely an FPS, but is real combat. You are immersed in the Russian, North African, and Europen 
 countrysides and towns. It is challenging and simply good fun to play. Much as the original, you 
 are amazed by the level of detail, and the actions of the non players around you. Graphica are 
 of course great, but the gameplay is even better. 
  
  The bad: It is far too short. Though this is pretty much a standard now, those of us who are single 
 player fans, really wish the 50 bucks we put out went a little further. 
  The second weakness has been mentioned already. It is really more of the same. Same three allies 
 and same three basic theaters of action (with a short desert areas thrown in) . You even hit D-Day 
 again. It feels much more like an expansion, than a new game. Though perhaps not politcally correct, 
 it might have been more fun to play the Germans and Italians, or perhaps bring in some pacific 
 theater elements.
  
  In any case - taken by itself this is a solid game that works well and is well worth playing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dtuck
Rating: 7.8
Date: Nov 9, 2005 1:57 am PT
Review:  First off the first thing I noticed in COD2 was the improved graphics. Absolutely superb, this 
 is exactly the kind of game I bought my graphics card for. There's a part in the Russian campaign 
 where you demolish a building and the effects are spectacular. A lot of the time I was like a cyber 
 tourist, running through the game using FRAPS to take screens of the superb graphics.
  Great graphics make a game more immersive, suspend your rational and bring a sense of logic to 
 how you interface with the game. COD2 does this superbly, you really feel as if you're on the battlefield 
 with fellow men, the extra detailed resolutions and the sound effects give you an even better sense 
 of what it must have been like to be involved in such a violent conflict.
  The sound effects and voice acting is used to great effect and the usual musical scores at the 
 end of certain missions are still there that to bring added emotion to the game.
  However I couldn't help feeling I'd played this game before in Call Of Duty 2. As impressive as 
 the graphics are, I'm not so sure it brings anything new to the gameplay. The same scripted events 
 are there, and very often you can breeze through a mission just by running towards the waypoint 
 allowing your AI team to clean up behind you.
  I enjoyed Call Of Duty 2 as even though it felt the same as the original, the original was so good 
 that you don't mind playing it again, and as you can probably tell I was blown away by the graphics. 
 I would have been more blown away if this had been the first installment, but it wasn't and that 
 muted the enjoyment.
  I still think the Call Of Duty brand has more mileage in it, but I'd like to see some more innovation 
 rather than just an impressive graphical update. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PatriotX_6
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 8, 2005 8:50 pm PT
Review:  The story line is great. The action is good. I just wish you could toggle the rate of fire like 
 the last Call of Duty. Also alot of missions was unclear, you did not know where to follow the 
 squad. They would tell you to rally at a certain point in the area of operations, but you don't 
 have clue to where it is or how to get to it. You can't go by the compass because they only point 
 to objectives. All in all though, it is a really good game. People could really learn something 
 about the war. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: flipperbmb
Rating: 7.9
Date: Nov 8, 2005 5:04 pm PT
Review:  This game is awesome, The sound is great, the graphics are awesome, and the gameplay is also fun, 
 although the gameplay does get sort of repetitive later in the game. Run, shoot germans, run shoot 
 germans, run shoot germans. It gets a little boring. There really are no advances in the game from 
 the first one, no sprint, stupid helth system, no ragdoll affects. What I really dont like is that 
 this game doesnt feel as epic as the last CoD. Everyone was talking about it, everyone was playing 
 it, in CoD 1 there were very memorable parts such as the river crossing at the Volga, now in the 
 russian campaign there are only streetfights. Overall, it makes for a good game although even though 
 there are some bad things about it. they should have tried to make it more like Day of Defeat: 
 Source. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Theplayboy0
Rating: 5
Date: Nov 8, 2005 3:18 pm PT
Review:  I must say that I am extremely dissapointed in this game. I had very high expectations and apparently 
 I got what I deserved. 
  
  First of all the single player missions are repetative and boring. You are completely stuck traveling 
 a set narrow path with NPC's waiting for you the make the move. There is never any traveling off 
 course or sneaking around or flanking the enemy from the side. It's always a stupid set path that 
 you have abide by. 
  
  Secondly, the AI is terrible and only at the highest difficulty level does the enemy start to somewhat 
 act like a real person or pose a real challenge. It doesn't make you feel as if you are actually 
 in the war because everyone is waiting on or focusing on you. 
  
  Third item I would like to point out is by far the biggest freaking issue to date when it comes 
 any game is the endless supply of enemy troops as well as the pop up out of nowhere enemies. The 
 developers really need to get a clue. 150 Germans simply can't crawl up out of a 5 person bunker 
 and return fire. You can make a kill wait a few seconds and watch the spot be replaced by an NPC 
 enemy that was literally just created. For example a string of 8 enemies runs across the edge of 
 the screen and then engages you in a fire fight. As soon as you kill all of them another 8 enemies 
 in the exact same spot and situation do the same. You can just keep killing and they will just 
 keep coming. It so unlike reality that it makes me sick. If you want to sit there forever killing 
 and killing and killing without accomplishing a damn thing you certainly can. You can even run 
 through a fire fight into a situation and some of the NPC's that you ran past will dissapear. Even 
 worse is that you can go through a situation, clear out a house or room, then trigger some type 
 of event by picking something up or walking across a certain area and *POP* out of nowhere comes 
 enemies from behind for you to kill that could literally not have appeared there unless by magic. 
 It's not like they are hard to kill they are stupid NPC's it's just the fact that such BS could 
 occur really upsets me. 
  
  The fourth thing that I would like to discuss is how they completely screwed up the multiplayer. 
 Everything you know and love about the multiplayer they took away or replaced. There is no longer 
 a rank system. I really enjoyed having a rank to show off. You can see another player on your team 
 and instantly know what skill player they are and whether they could be a help or hindrence. Also 
 since there is no rank they there a team can no longer gain artillery fire. Another thing is that 
 you can't gain more stuff than you start with because of no ranks. Remember how you could start 
 with only 1 grenade then slowly move up the chain....... it's gone! They did this out of pure laziness. 
 Also they took away all the freaking vehicles! No tanks, jeeps, guns on the side, nothing!!!! There 
 is no more health bar. Your health automatically regens from all of the magical fairy dust that 
 was present in the world during the 40's. Give me a freaking break! When you get shot you bleed 
 and then unless you get medical attention you die. Especially when it's a 7.62mm round shot out 
 of highpowered rifle! You don't magically regain all of your health back. The way the stupid game 
 is set up there are no health packs (which is good) but worse you just magically regain your life. 
 How the hell is that supposed to happen. You can literally in this game get shot 100 times and 
 be at full health so long as each shot is delayed enough. You can fragment someone with a grenade, 
 snipe them in the chest with a sniper rifle, plug about 5 carbine rounds into 'em, and all they 
 have to do is hide for a few seconds and *POOF* good as new. Okay that's realy impressive.... 
 
  
  The fifth thing is that the maps suck! They are all the exact same maps with only a few new ones. 
 As a matter of fact they actually TOOK AWAY more maps than they added so now there are fewer maps 
 to play. On top of that the maps are all teeny tiny. The maps are soooooo freaking small now it 
 just plain silly. They added the shotgun too which makes for a great time in such small maps that 
 3/4 of all the damn players are using 'em. The maps no longer have hidden tunnels and alternate 
 routes and such it's usually just a basic map with 3 paths making a line like this : I I I... across 
 a long map. It's soooooo dumb it's just silly. 
  
  The last thing I would like to say is that I'm so let down by this game I'm totally annoyed by 
 it. The single player sucks, the multiplayer is so crappy I find myslef literally playing United 
 Offense. They took away too much stuff. The thing with sequals is that you are supposed to add 
 new content not take the $#! T away! They should have learned from the AWE MOD of COD UO. Been able 
 to set up trip wires, bleed your opponents, no magical heals and magical spawns, learned that we 
 like the big maps just as much as the small ones......... 
  
  DO NOT BUY THIS GAME. Wait for the expansion to see if things get changed then purchase them both. 
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: mikehet0915
Rating: 9.4
Date: Nov 8, 2005 12:40 pm PT
Review:  Call of Duty 2 is one of the best games I have played this year. The game is so fast paced that 
 it leaves the gamers with almost no rest between battles. If you are an FPS fan, then Call of Duty 
 2 is a must play.
  Gameplay - Non-stop action. You will be looking down the sight of your gun for about 95% of the 
 game. This game has the most aggressive AI I have ever seen. They will throw 5 grenades at your 
 position, rush you, and beat you with the butt of their guns. This is the only game that I have 
 played where I truly believed I was in WWII. There is no time spent looking of health kits, which 
 is a great touch because now you only focus on running, ducking, killing. I guess the only complaint 
 I have about the gameplay is that your character ALWAYS has to be the person to plant a bomb on 
 a tank. I would have liked to take the position of defending a person who has an important task. 
 However, this game has SO many incredible moments that you won't even take that into account during 
 the time that you play. I also found the last level sightly anti-climatic, since it comes right 
 after the Battle for Hill 400 mission, which goes in my favorite gaming moments of all time.
  Grahics - The graphics are very good. They aren't the best, but it's really hard to pay attention 
 to textures while being hit in the face with a rifle. The rain effects are very good and the models 
 look fairly decent. The smoke effects are excellent. I was playing the game on Max settings, so 
 I was hoping to see a little more detail in the grass and trees.
  Sound - This game has to win an award for Best Sound. I have NEVER felt like I was in a war until 
 I played this game. It is loud and frantic. People are screaming everywhere, guns are firing, there 
 are explosions in the background, and planes are flying above you. Everything sounds so clear that 
 you have to hear it to appreciate it. Your house will be shaking while you are playing this game. 
 The music at the end of the Battle for Hill 400 mission is so well executed that you will feel 
 like you are watching a war movie.
  Value - I would not mind if this game only had a single player, it is that good. It probably took 
 me around 10-12 hrs to beat on the normal difficultly, but I took my time with the game. The multiplayer 
 is as fast paced as the single player, but I do favor the story portion of the game. This game 
 is worth the 50 bucks, but you should only pay the 50 if you really like the FPS genre.
  Tilt - Like I mentioned earlier, this is one of the best games I have played this year. If you 
 have a pretty nice computer, then this game is worth checking out. You will not find another game 
 out right now that makes you feel like a soldier in WWII. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: isoplus
Rating: 7.9
Date: Nov 8, 2005 12:36 pm PT
Review:  COD2 is a very action packed WW2 FPS.
  It puts you in the middle of a very large scale battle and have you kill about 100 German soldiers 
 per level.
  No, it is not a WW2 sim or a tactical shooter, but it is still a very action packed stylish game.
 
  If you play hardest setting with cross-hair off, it can certainly give the game harder and more 
 authentic feel to it.
  Enemy AI is ok, you're squads' AI is about the same, nothing great but it's there.
  Graphics 
 are very good if you have a machine to run it in full details.
  Sounds are very good IMO with 5.1 surround sound or EAX.
  I wish the game was little harder, 
 but COD2 can definitely soothe your twitching fingers. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: amnesiac40
Rating: 9.3
Date: Nov 8, 2005 12:35 pm PT
Review:  The best WWII shooter ever made, hands down, no contest, period.
  
  The graphics are superb, the AI of both your enemy and your squadmates is excellent (at times it 
 felt like I was playing against real people) , the dynamic, open-ended missions give the gameplay 
 a suitably hectic and anarchic quality missing from most WWII games. Advancing across a battlefield 
 for one mission, and then retreating across that same battlefield in the next mission gives the 
 game a realistic quality to it, as well as those missions involving a desperate defense of your 
 objective while waiting for reinforcements. 
  
  The game is never dull for the entire length of its single-player campaign, always throwing you 
 into different situations and always forcing you to play carefully (especially on Hard mode) . The 
 music and sound in the game is sublime... even the installation music got me pumped up. The multiplayer 
 is very fun as well.
  
  It doesn't get much better than this. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mamad_raiss
Rating: 8.4
Date: Nov 8, 2005 12:33 pm PT
Review:  Here you can play second in the series Call of Duty 2 have many good things but I think it could 
 be better , WHY? 
  because the graphic isn't perfect and other bad thing is why it seems unreal . I think brother 
 in arms had more reality than it , anyway I ll wait for XBOX 360 version and I hope that will be 
 better. but one other word the game is really good by the way and when the 3rd one release I will 
 get that ...
  the game graphic is well enough but not well as I was expected ,but it is realy good very well 
 better say DAY of DEFEAT has better graphic.
  the sound is perfect and it has many good musics in various conditions ,
  story is like other 
 WWII games and its ordinary .
  the best thing in game is gameplay because it is really good and sometimes I believed that I am 
 in war . any way its good enough and worth to play . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MrBiohazard
Rating: 9.2
Date: Nov 8, 2005 5:41 am PT
Review:  5 minutes after I finished the single player campaigns of Call Of Duty I was wishing for a Call 
 Of Duty 2. Last week, after months of dreaming.. the day finally arrived and my prayers were answered! 
 What a game. My girlfriend had to drag me off the PC, seriously (the scratch marks in the desk 
 top are still there to prove it!) .
  
  It's not so much the gameplay that impressed me initially, it was the details. it's the snow on 
 soldiers jackets. It's the sound effects. it's the way the enemy now runs away from your grenades 
 or tries to sneak up behind you (which, unfortunately they do with ease!) . The game speed has been 
 improved, I'm playing witth a 3ghz P4 and a GeForce 7800GT. It just flys!
  
  The only negative point I can find so far is with the battle HUD system. COD2 tells you where you 
 are being shot from and even where grenades are coming from. Yes, it sort of helps but I find it 
 more annoying than helpful. With all the information being squeezed onto the screen it's hard to 
 see what is going on behind it, which is pretty important really!
  
  If you can live with the little HUD annoyance it's the most immersing game I've every played. COD 
 with bells on (and sprinkles) .
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: benedic08
Rating: 9.3
Date: Nov 7, 2005 9:18 pm PT
Review:  I have been a fan of the call of duty series since the first game came out. This game brings back 
 the intensity and the satisfaction of the first game. But it also brings back the very quick campaign 
 which I finished in one day under veteran difiiculty. But the real fun is not in the campaign but 
 its in the multiplayer. Thousands of players playing online are waiting to frag your face off. 
 I recommend this game to all the FPS fans out there. This game wont let you down unless your buying 
 it for its Single player. The single player is very fun and enjoying but its just to short. so 
 thats my review on this game. Thanks 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CalienteBurito
Rating: 9.7
Date: Nov 7, 2005 6:49 pm PT
Review:  Let me first say... DAMN!!
  ok so now lets do the review.
  
  Gameplay :: Aonlything that doesn't get a perfect ten only because of a few levels that are just 
 kinda... blah... but there is only 2 or three of thoese. The rest of the levels are amazing beond 
 belief.
  
  Graphics :: They really out did themselves here. The efects and how the environments look and how 
 it really puts you into the game make them perfect.
  
  Sound :: Another thing that they out did themselves on. The first CoD won awards for the sound 
 and I am sure this one will follow in its big brothers footsteps. the sound is perfect. the addition 
 of the the combat chater makes the game so real! another perfect 10
  
  Value :: This got a perfect score for the multiplayer and even replay value on some of the more 
 amazing levels. A great value. of course i got the cd version of the game the DVD is $60... alittle 
 pricy for me... but thats why i didnt get that one!
  
  Tilt :: Everything combined makes this the best shooter to date. Defenitly go and buy this one 
 you wont be dissapointed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xmg0
Rating: 9.6
Date: Nov 7, 2005 3:56 pm PT
Review:  Game (Story, Overview)
  -------------------
  The game follows its predecessor in fields of combat, but this time the British get their own full 
 scale battles. The Russians are first to play and offer a much more satisfying training mission 
 which is about 3 times longer then before. Shortly you engage in some of the best urban fights 
 ever played. Then the British get the campagin missions where you really know your teammates, like 
 in the early American missions. The British fight in towns and outposts that fun and need lots 
 of skill to kill. The Americans, of course, get the huge memorable battle this time with the Pointe 
 de Hoc mission that really displays the true feeling of war. The next missions are tons of fun 
 with lots of Nazi killing.
  
  Graphics
  -------------------
  The graphics can be considered next-gen because of the COD2 release on the Xbox 360. They are a 
 much needed improvement from COD. The only slowtown was a sundown scene of Tunsia, the only slowdown 
 of 30 secs, that was with a 6600GT AGPX4. Otherwise, graphics high it was perfect.
  
  Sound
  -------------------
  What can you say? Infinity Ward got the real guns are recorded 
 it into the game. Perfect 10/10. The mortars, guns, language (voices, german language, and cursing 
 :P)
  
  Value
  -------------------
  The overall game is awesome. If you like FPSs this game will be the one for the fall. I think this 
 game is possibly the best game that was released this year. Mmm yes, better then Battlefield 2. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DBROWN9
Rating: 8.9
Date: Nov 7, 2005 6:35 am PT
Review:  Not having playd the previous Call Of Duty, I was presently surprised by this game. Although there 
 is nothing new here in terms of innovation, COD2 is like many WWII shooters before it. It took 
 me a while to decide if I should part with my cash given that I have been playing modern warfare 
 in the form of the excellent Battlefield 2 for the last 4 months and no other game has got a look 
 in.
  
  That said, the graphics are fantastic, Sound is out of this world and the gameplay fast & frantic. 
 
  
  At times I was breath taken by the sheer exhilaration of the single player missions. The campaigns 
 make this game. It has a checkpoint type savegame structure to enable smooth and continuous gameplay 
 but I have to say that it is the best I have seen this done.
  
  Multiplayer is ok, but nothing to write home about, with the now standard game types such as round 
 based assault (called search and destroy) & deathmatch.
  
  You do need a good rig to play this game in its full beauty (a lot of people seem to be having 
 technical difficulties) and even though I have a fairly decent system I am experiencing some graphics 
 problems, particularly with the main menus & brlurred text that is impossible to read and I suspect 
 a patch will soon be in the offing.
  
  My only gripe is that the missions are too short (the game can be completed in 9 hours) and when 
 a game is as expensive as this I feel the community deserves a few extra hours gameplay, especially 
 when the multiplayer aspect is not particularly strong.
  
  This is a must buy game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MrTechie
Rating: 9.7
Date: Nov 6, 2005 8:19 pm PT
Review:  One of the most intense World War II first person shooter games I have ever played. It was simply 
 brilliant. The non stop, no letdown action of this game kept me on the toes throughout the game 
 and I simply loved it. Playing this game put no doubt in my mind that what our men did in World 
 War II was, to put it in simple terms, inspirational. Put against almost impossible odds, you often 
 felt frustrated when you were often killed and had to restart from the checkpoint. Watching your 
 fellow soldier getting mowed down by an MG42, even in video games, is not a sight to savor. Having 
 said that, I believe the single mission campaign was a little bit too short. 9.7/10, simply brilliant. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lufa007
Rating: 8.9
Date: Nov 6, 2005 7:48 pm PT
Review:  Great fun. This game contains lots of great sound effects, when youre running through a battle 
 and you can hear bullets whizzing by your head it makes things more intense. I love running through 
 a battle field and explosions occur all around you and you really feel like you part of it. and 
 When you get hit by an explosion you automatically go prone and your a bit dazed, this makes the 
 whole experience more fun. The clips are just full of drama. At times everything maybe be just 
 chilled and you and the guys are haveing fun, other times you may watch as a companion gets blown 
 away our shot in the head with out warning. Unlike the last Medal of Honor you dont have all these 
 really secret missions so i think its more fun and enjoyable. The AI is quite good, you don't have 
 have a lot of trouble with your squad and the enemy is pretty smart too. I havent played many WWII 
 games but this was really fun. if you really enjoy the thrill of a WWII movie kind of like Saving 
 Private Ryan, then you will enjoy this. Great game, lots of fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jeffizzzle
Rating: 9.6
Date: Nov 6, 2005 7:07 pm PT
Review:  I wanted to check it out with my new computer, so I downloaded the demo. 
  
  IT RAN PERFECTLY SMOOTH AND WITH GREAT GRAPHICS ON A BASIC SETUP!! 
  my comp is
  2.4 Ghz, 512 
 RAM, 40 Gb hard drive, 256 mb PCI geforce card
  
  The gameplay is very intense with great AI. The graphics are the best ive ever seen on PC. I will 
 most definetely be buying this for PC and maybe for xbox 360. Very fast plot and awesome team strategies. 
 I really like the different stances you can get into when running around. The guns are awesome 
 too!
  
  Hope this helped,
  Jeff Thiessen 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Comic_Link
Rating: 9.4
Date: Nov 6, 2005 6:36 pm PT
Review:  CoD2 is really, really, AWSOME!!!
  
  Graphics- Probobly the best I have ever seen. The smoke is incredible and textures are amazing. 
 The guns look even better too! There are also quite a bit more of character models so it does look 
 like your fighting a real army of Germans.
  
  Sound- Come on please. I don't need to explain the sound. It's just incredible!
  
  Gameplay- 
 Having to run around constantly because of Germans actually throwing grenades at you is fun and 
 more realistic. The enemies on radar is kind of bad, but who cares they are gonna die anyways! 
 This game has a lot of replayability because its more open and wide for flank and manuever. Big 
 plus for that part. CoD1 seemed too linear. The new levels are also amazing. 
  
  Multiplay- I'm a little dissapointed with multiplayer. There are shotguns now, and it seems everyone 
 likes to use them, and it defeats the purpose of CoD in my opinion. It just got a little unrealistic 
 fighting..*cough Halo* but adding the breathe holding for the sniper is great. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mista_F
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 6, 2005 12:42 pm PT
Review:  Oh man this rocks, I loved COD1 and MOH, disliked BIA 1 and 2. Why do I like COD 2 so much well 
 because of the fast pace. The action is so frenetic I dont need to think to much to get bored. 
 Dont get me wrong Im not a console type gimp. Ive just finished Rome BI and started on CIV4. This 
 game is just so fast moving it sweeps you away and keeps you hooked and I like that. About 90% 
 of games I'll play for a week and get bored. In fact before this came out I put COD one back on 
 again. The graphics and cut scenes are pretty cool and the game is pretty playable on a medium 
 rig with good enough graphics.
  
  I'm a happy man ;) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BornGamer
Rating: 2.9
Date: May 15, 2006 8:16 am PT
Review:  Where to start with this abortion of a sequel? Every single aspect of the original's gameplay has 
 been destroyed (and of course this review refers entirely to multiplayer - single player COD is 
 like a sandwich with no bread) , with such stunningly retarded features as:
  
  1. Red crosshairs when you mouse over an enemy - Skill no longer required.
  
  2. Push a button 
 to steady your sniper scope - Skill no longer required.
  
  3. No nade cooking - Strategic nade throws are now a thing of the past.
  
  4. No satchel charges 
 - Need to clear out a whole area? Just throw that satchel charge in! Oh no.... Wait a sec... They 
 removed it. :\
  
  5. No rank system - A great way to achieve perks and bonuses (such as artillery calls and online 
  Gone.
  
  6. Nade indicator - Don't worry if you didn't hear that nade land nearby! There's a big immersion-shattering 
 indicator right in your face to tell you exactly where it is! Don't you feel smart? Der-hyuk!
 
  
  7. No sprint - The feature that turned COD from a decent FPS into one of the top 3 FPS's ever is 
 now gone. Yep that's right folks! You get to feel like you're swimming through syrup again! Feel 
 like making a quick sprint for that bunker over there? Too bad! You can just take a casual stroll 
 over there instead... Good luck!
  
  The only good thing about Call of Duty 2 is that you're not obliged to play it - The outstanding 
 FPS tour-de-force United Offensive is still alive and kicking.
  
  Infinity Ward clearly decided to sell out and focus this sequel towards the lowest possible common 
 denominator, and in that respect, they've succeeded with flying colors.
  
  Call of Duty 2 is an awesome introductory FPS for young children. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SkullLeader00
Rating: 9.2
Date: Nov 6, 2005 11:35 am PT
Review:  This is a great sequel to one of the best WWII games out there. They didn't change too much to 
 make COD fans out there mad. But they improved in areas that make the game more realistic and fun. 
 I'm glad they didn't try to become too innovative and take away from what is a successful formula. 
 At the same time this game does not break any new barriers, but its a game I know many of us will 
 be playing for years. 
  I have to say that COD and UO i got my money out of because 2 years after the fact i still play 
 it. Now i know I will do the same for this game which is why i have to give it such a high grade.
 
  
  Gameplay: Subtle differences like no health meter or grenade throwing make the game more fun and 
 realistic. Its an easy 9.
  
  Graphics: Thank god it looks sweet on my comp. I didn't have to upgrade so many of us can play 
 the game and enjoy the detail. My favorite aspect is that you can't see the enemy clearly and they 
 did a great job with the smoke and fire. 9.
  
  Sound: Always had the best sound for a WWII. In Game sounds, voice acting, etc. Could be a 10 but 
 i give it a 9.
  
  Value: Like i said this game i will be playing for years so its an automatic 10.
  
  Tilt: I 
 would not give this a 10 only because there really isn't anything too new or innovative from the 
 first. But i have to say its a close 10 because the little changes make this game a for sure runner 
 for game of the year 2005. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: game_completor
Rating: 9.7
Date: Nov 6, 2005 11:31 am PT
Review:  This is the game I've been waiting for all year. And here it is, right in front of my eyes... Exactly 
 how I imagined it would be. Well, almost exactly... Call of duty 2 is the best WWII shooter Ive 
 ever played. The graphics aren't really breath-taking (kill zone 2 for the ps3, now thats breath-taking) , 
 but it is great, slightly below the level of games like F. E. A. R. or Quake 4 (although u will see 
 how realistic the graphics are in the game it self) .
  
  But that doesn't hold back the sound quality of the game, Im telling you if you thought brothers 
 in arms was good, this is revolutionary. Voice acting is good too. The physics in the game are 
 a bit off, as you can spot corpses stuck in odd positions. Game play is fun and easy, yet they 
 added a sense of realism, your life bar is no longer present! Instead you'll notice your character 
 starting to sway in dizziness after taking a few shots, but he will heal himself if you stay in 
 the corner, avoiding bullets.
  
  The gun models have improved a lot too. I particularly love the Thompson SMG here. The Russian 
 PPSH SMG and British Sten gun get an improvement in both sound and looks too. All the other guns 
 are fixed with cooler looks as well (take a close look at the guns and u can see scratches and 
 chips here and there)
  
  The story is good, putting your character in a situation where you are a small part of a big war, 
 unlike its nemesis brothers in arms, where youre the squad leader. Even though the story is good, 
 it isn't such a breakthrough as the first call of duty's story was. If you played the original 
 call of duty, you will encounter a few familiar faces...
  
  Finally we get to the hardest part... (Sigh) ... the length of the game. I just bought the game 
 and installed, and after around 6 - 8 hours of playing, its finished. Thats why I seriously recommend 
 playing this game in short periods and in a slightly difficult setting, to give you a happy ending.
 
  
  The conclusion:
  Call of Duty has always been my favorite WWII shooter. Its sequel has shown many strong points 
 but has a major flaw in its length. This could have been the most perfect game in its genre.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Fattybombom
Rating: 9.6
Date: Nov 6, 2005 10:36 am PT
Review:  
  this game is better in every way
  
  the visuals are vastley improved.. you feel like you are there in the middle of all this..
  
 
  the sounds also helps.. it sound like it should let's just say it that simple..
  
  you are never alone in the middle of battle you always have someone help you 
  that is a good 
 thing... no more rambo here
  
  you have no health meter so no more looking for health packs..
  
  this game is TENSE you will 
 likely be spending much of your time hiding and planing were to go and how to get there...
  
  you get killed very easily (on the more difficult difficulties) so keep your head down
  
 
  buckle up load your weapons and get ready for the best war experiens yet 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gunlord12
Rating: 9.4
Date: Nov 6, 2005 9:00 am PT
Review:  This game is really amazing it has fantastic graphics and brilliant gameplay. This is the best 
 war game ever. I thought the first call of duty couldn't get better but it did. The bad thing is 
 the regenerating system and it is pretty short. The Russian campaign is really short but the British 
 and the American missions are suburbly intense. The multiplayer is really cool and they have remade 
 some old maps. I think thats fantastic. I think this is one of the best games this year and i can`t 
 wait until the next installment. Overall this game is brilliant it is a must buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Plmax
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 6, 2005 8:34 am PT
Review:  I dont know what i see in call of duty 1. Why i told all my friend that is best game. Now MY opinion 
 is Call OF Duty 2 is the bst game! I t is game of year 2005. Game play is better like quake 4 or 
 half life 2 . Just play it ! 
  
  Each of the game's 10 missions is broken up into a few different stages. If you play the game on 
 regular difficulty, you could blow through it in about 10 hours. Ratcheting up the difficulty a 
 notch makes the game much harder and more tactical (this is probably the experience the designers 
 intended) . Since you'll be creeping and peeking more carefully through all the encounters, you'll 
 lengthen the campaign significantly, and enjoy it more. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wardon
Rating: 9.6
Date: Nov 6, 2005 8:32 am PT
Review:  In this chapter you hav a semblabe game too the first 1 but this time there is new things like 
 the choose mission select menu. There is a grenade danger indicfator that appear on the center 
 of your screen when you are close to a grenade, GRENADE WATCH OUT , lol. 
  
  A new thing that i like from this game its the no health system, now you hav a health system thta 
 works when you r overdose... helth system : The red damage direction arrow on the screen show where 
 you get attack by a bullet. The signs that help you now if you r gonna die r the heavy breathing, 
 health palpitations and blurred vision. WHEN ONE OF THOSE THINGS HAPPEN GET COVER lol your helth 
 will regenerate rapidly. Cool hein ?
  There is alot of new things in CoD 2 but i will not say them all i said the more important things. 
 
  
  Now the defaults : first of all ITS TOO SIMILAR from the CoD 1 and i think that there is not enough 
 of maps in multiplayer and the game add new things but they reduce the things too like we cant 
 sprint now. But we can choose our difficulty like in the first and there is a multiplayer so anyway 
 its a real good game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cimmy2005
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 6, 2005 8:22 am PT
Review:  Call of Duty 2 delivers the same great sinlgeplayer and multiplayer action found in the first game 
 but rendered in an engine with beautiful visuals. The Singleplayer offers new locations and different 
 memorable moments worthy of you time and energy. Good news for fans; classic COD multiplayer maps 
 make thier return like Brecourt, Carentan, Railyard, and St. Mere Eglise AKA Dawnville. The game 
 does not tamper with the classic COD chemistry. If you played the original alot you will notice 
 a few enhancements that you will have to adjust to. For instance frag and smoke grenades are not 
 part of your inventory, you would have to press a seperate button to throw them. There is a tweak 
 on the sniper rifles, a player must hold his breathe to steady the scope crosshairs. If you noticed 
 red dots on your compass, you will realize fast that those are enemy locations that have been revealed. 
 
  There is still things that have been left out that COD2 could of done much better with. Tanks in 
 multiplayer; like it was in United Offensive. Other maps that should of been remade like Foy, Sicily, 
 Italy, Berlin, Arnhem. There are some weapons that would of made a better war experience like deployable 
 machine guns, flamethrowers, bazookas, or how about deployable morters. The biggest of all let 
 downs is the missing sprint option. Having that burst of speed can get you out of hairy situations 
 and flank an enemy faster. 
  If you played Medal of Honor or Call of Duty, and still looking for the same war action but with 
 prettier graphics then this is a good buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: awsomaha
Rating: 8.8
Date: Nov 6, 2005 6:32 am PT
Review:  With great anticipation, I was waiting for Call of Duty 2 to come out. I thought if it is anything 
 like the original, Im in for a 6 month playing spree. Well sad to say, its not. Dont get me wrong, 
 the game is fun, loud, and hectic at times, and makes you feel like you are really in a war. The 
 only major issue I have with it is all the scripting of my team mates. What happened was I was 
 running thru streets and decided to take a left instead of a right, and start killing some Germans 
 sitting at an AA gun. Then I noticed Im taking all these guys on my own as my team mates sit behind 
 cover about half a street up. So Im thinking, hello, arent you going to come help me? Then I 
 figured out lets try going right instead of left and low and behold, here come my guys, ready to 
 help.
  Now this is just one example of the scripting issues I had. There are other times when I was running 
 around in the street trying to figure out how to activate the script. Other then that major glaring 
 issue, the game is fun. I find myself amazed at how hectic and loud the game can get one minute, 
 then really quite and clam the next. I would say over all it is a lot of fun and excitement, but 
 I dont think I will be playing this over and over again like the original. Unfortunately I havent 
 been able to play multiplayer but when I do, I try and write a review on that.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ittna12
Rating: 8.9
Date: Nov 6, 2005 4:11 am PT
Review:  ... that seriously are annoying in game like this. Little more work and the game would have been 
 perfect!...
  
  The bad things first:
  Firstly: Not like in F. E. A. R the NPC deaths are scripted.. not much player physics.. Everything 
 is just scripted ... After playing F. E. A. R it really annoying to see that when you shoot someone 
 to the right place they always fall down at the same way... And there is no area damage.. when 
 you shoot someone to the leg he just keeps on walking like nothing happened! Not much realistics..
 
  
  Second: The enviroment.. yeah again.. everything that can go broken is scripted you even cant shoot 
 a window in a million peaces... When comes some scripted big bombs or explosion.. (that you can 
 sometimes do too) everything just blows up real nice.. but when you try to do the same.. Nothing 
 happens.. Just a litle scratch in the wall.. (if even that) In the desert fight where you can drive 
 a tank.. at some point there are some houses .. When you shoot them.. nothing happens.. Why did 
 the devolopers took this effect away? In CoD when you shotted a house with a tank it was blown 
 up to pieces! : ( 
  
  Too bad that devolopers left some great stuff out of the game what would have made is the best..
 
  
  Now .. Enough of these 'bad things' - Why the game is so good (even with couple missing things)
 
  
  - It looks amazing! Top graphics of today.. Absolutely amazing!
  - The motion is just intense.. I play it whit 12.1 sound system on Big Screen.. You guys have any 
 idea what it feels like etc. in the first russian mission when the tanks go over you.. my coach 
 shakes like hell and the overcoming sounds it just ... indescribable .. In the battle of El Alamein 
 when the British are defending and Krautz attacking .. and you call in the artillery.. I loved 
 it ! atmosphere was so intense that I almost crapped myself..: P
  - The A. I is great and like the two preceding CoD s the game is beatable at veteran skill.. 
 
  - Ant that quicksave thing.. I think the checkpoints are often enough to keep the game not too 
 frustrating.. (Play Far Cry .. hard and no quicksaves)
  
  The summary:
  The couple things that are missing are not too much in the way to this game be just that damn good.. 
 ! If you dont have it get it.. :D You love it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nuclearbomb2000
Rating: 9.7
Date: Nov 6, 2005 3:51 am PT
Review:  the best war game i have ever played is this. the graphics are stunning with 4x antianalisng and 
 full texture resolution and great sound and gameplay, as before it takes you through world war one 
 with new scenarios and levels, youll love the tank missions and there are amazing scenes in the 
 game when youre getting ready for the d-day assualt you get shot and fall on the ground dazed from 
 the blow and..., i guess you should play the game to find out there are some minor slow downs where 
 the game stops completely and keeps doing it for around a minute then it goes to its original speed.
 
  
  overall its a good experience if you like fps games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: susmit
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 5, 2005 8:25 pm PT
Review:  I first though that i was in for another drab WW2 game. However, being a Call of Duty fan made 
 me slightly biased for COD2. Turns out, i didnt need to feel biased. NO LIES, BUT THIS IS THE BEST 
 WW2 GAME OF ALL TIME!!!!!!!!!
  
  Unlike other WW2 shooters, Call of Duty has a varies single -- player campaign! One mission even 
 has repairing wires while immersed in combat!
  The graphics are beautifully made. The sound is simply perfect for the mood. The voice acting is 
 superb. I can see absolutely no faults with this game! The Multi player has everything from old- 
 school death match to a revolutionary new type, "Headquarters". The Multiplayer is exceptionally 
 enjoyable even for someone who doesnt really care for multiplayer. 
  
  Call Of Duty 2 is an awesome game, so buy it!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dont_refuse
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 5, 2005 7:25 pm PT
Review:  COD2 is not bad, but in my opinion, it is not as good as the original. The missions were uninspired. 
 The Russian campaign, for example, is extremely lackluster. In the original, we had great moments 
 such as the ferry to Stalingrad. In this, all we have is street fighting and building hopping.
 
  
  While I'm not picky about graphics, it is not as all its cracked out to be. It feels like a revamped 
 Quake 3 engine, like the original; it is not a big improvement.
  
  One other thing that I don't understand about the Call of Duty franchise is that, although German 
 soldiers speak German, Russian soldiers speak ENGLISH. I think Russians normally speak Russian, 
 instead of English in Russian. The designers should've put some subtitles on to increase the authenticity. 
 What I find ironic is that the Russian journals in the loading screens are in English, while the 
 designers clearly wanted the journals to look as authentic as possible.
  
  All wrongs aside, COD2 is not that bad. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Reggy15
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 5, 2005 7:07 pm PT
Review:  I have spent a fair bit of time playing this game and in the time i played this game i have noticed 
 a few things . The graphics are very well done i was very pleased . It makes you feel like your 
 in the world war 2 period . The sound compliments the graphics in the feel of the game . The gamesplay 
 is the same as cod 1 if not easyer . I liked the fact that they redid some of the old maps but 
 i was a little upset that in one all they did was make it smaller . The battles in this game are 
 intense i am talking about both singleplayer and multiplayer . There are not many draw backs in 
 this game but one i did notice is a new gun they put in The NoobShot ( Shotgun ) . This gun is 
 by far the cheapest in the game the maxium damge rang is by far to long we might as well get the 
 leaserSword From halo 2 ( at least it looks cooler) .
  
  + Great Graphics 
  + Great Sounds
  + funner Gameplay
  + Fun single Player
  + Fun Multiplayer
  + Redid some 
 of the better maps from Cod 1
  
  -The new Shotgun : (
  
  If you like Cod 1 buy Cod 2 . Cod 2 is the best World War 2 Fps To date Enjoy! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mixedplanet
Rating: 8.7
Date: Nov 5, 2005 6:07 pm PT
Review:  COD2 is great or should i say the best FPS around right now. the game is intense, it has awsome 
 visual, a remarkable AI, and the best sound a game can have. the best mission was D-DAY and it 
 was in american campain, in british one its all good. but personally i think the russian campaign 
 could have been better. though there was some historical moments, i really missed the RED SQUAR 
 mission. it was is COD 1. 
  
  for another good part, this game supports older hardware and performs very good with them. i have 
 a geforceMX card and its like over 3 years old. but i played the game with high graphics. so people 
 who has old hardware, dont be afraid too get this game. though the old ones dont support ultrashadow 
 or shader model, for that you will miss some excellent visuals. specially the shine of the weapons 
 and vehicles. the controls of COD 2 i liked the most. now you dont have to switch between the grenade 
 and weapons with the mouse wheel. just press the wheel and there goes the grenade. and for the 
 health system. it is good. feels like i am playing halo.
  
  now for the bad parts of the game. if you want to play this game with directx9, dont even bother 
 getting the game if you dont have a high end video card. becasue then the framerate of the game 
 will be awfule, even high end video cards have framrate problems. 
  
  this game can get frustarating most of the time. but its only in harddened mode and veteran mode. 
 i know cause i played the game in hardened in the first try and finished it in 11 hours. i just 
 wanna swear at the game at those moments. another bad thing about this game is, when ever there 
 is a mg42 and you are visible in dat area, they only target you. dont matter if your allies runs 
 at them. mg42 just targets you. this buggs me in the mission called "hill400". well overal the 
 game is short in my opinion.
  
  well infinity ward said the game has freedom for us. but no, the game is linear. they should have 
 put sprint in this one, but too bad it was a feature from gray matter. well for the online aspect 
 of the game. its way fun than COD 1 but lacks if compared to CODUO. i really miss the vehicle control 
 and the mode called base assualt. 
  
  well overal, COD 2 is a awsome game with a bit of problems. well you can put them aside easilly. 
 people will like this game. specailly if you are new to the series. and trust me it is an next 
 gen game. when you will paly it you will have mixed reactions. sometime you will love it and sometime 
 you will just swear at it. lol that how it goes. thnx
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: JediDude101
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 14, 2005 7:16 am PT
Review:  In my opinion I think this is better than the first COD. The graphics are better, the gameplay is 
 more fast paced. I also loved that theres no health bar! I always hated looking around for health 
 kits. I put the learning curve from 0 to 30 beacause to me it's not that hard to get the controls. 
 If you've played the first COD then you should be able to start playing this one in about 15 min.
 
  
  The only drawback I think is that if you don't have a high powered comp then the frame rate slows 
 down and it goes all choppy, then you have to put the graphics down but the graphics are like the 
 best part! I love this game and so will YOU! (hopefully) .
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kitch88
Rating: 9.7
Date: Nov 5, 2005 7:42 am PT
Review:  THIS GAME IS INTENSE.
  
  From the first mission to the last, its a "seat of your pants ride" The game starts with a brief 
 tutorial which results in going to war in moscow, to then blowing up a German stronghold. This 
 is an amazingly intense battle - its is already more louder, more scarier, more action filled that 
 some of the orginal games greats. After blowing up Germans in buildings come Railway yard assults 
 through pipes and city hall counter attacks - all building on an impressive Starlingrad battle 
 front. The ncomes the British - and being a Brit myself - i have to say is a masterpiece - accurate, 
 british like, and 1000 times better than the british campaign in the orginal - NO MORE COMMADO 
 - SINGLE MAN VERSUS THE WORLD - its squad action all the way.
  
  Then the tank actions - thats intense - but easier than the orginal games tank bit in russia, then 
 comes the US Campaign... 2 words - CONTROLED CHAOS. You get a real sense that after you scale the 
 cliffs of Pointe de Hoc - its a down hill ride for the poor Rangers, with the guns being somewhere 
 else to the nerve biting and exciting cling on on the Pointe. Then back into Germany for the battle 
 of hill 400 - easily the most difficultest series of levels - yet totally believable and immersival. 
 And the game ends with a reasonable ending of assualting a Rhine banked town - which i must say 
 is a damn good level - but with the Russian and British finales being so intense and challenging 
 - it seemed a bit weak - but still a good level non - the less.
  
  The game sounds are as good if not better than the Orginal with loads of shouting fom your team 
 mates on enemy locations and grenade warnings, shouting from the germans, the sound of hissing 
 bullets, richochotes, footsteps, to the distant sounds of war in the ambience. It is so immersive 
 its scary at point. (I DONT THINK I HAVE PLAYED A GAME WHERE I HAVE SWORN AT MY COMPUTER SO MUCH 
 - YOU GET TOO IMMERSED) The graphics are leaps and bounds ahead of other games out there (F. E. A. R 
 and co - well different kind of graphics) the weapons, uniforms and such are all textures and modeled 
 wonderfully - with even the blandest of weapons such as the STEN looking good.
  
  In conclusion - anyone who hasn't got this game - should buy it - it will set a standard in you 
 game buying for ever - COD 2 simply is the best WWII FPS ever - and possibly one of the best FPS 
 of all time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HTWingnut
Rating: 8.2
Date: Nov 5, 2005 5:27 am PT
Review:  The original Call of Duty revolutioned the military first person shooter genre. It was shocking, 
 action intensive, and well, simply amazing to play. Call of Duty 2 builds on this same premise. 
 No there isn't a lot new except a revised graphics engine and all new campaigns. But at least Activision 
 took to heart the old adage "If it ain't broke, don't fix it".
  
  The game consists of three sets of campaign missions, one playing for the Russians, another for 
 the British, and lastly as an American soldier. For the most part, a lot of it is running and gunning, 
 but there are opportunities for tank commanding and some sniping. Levels get more intense as each 
 campaign progresses, sometimes to the point where you want to throw your arms up in frustration, 
 until you realize there is another way to skin that cat.
  
  Some animations are pretty funny. Shoot a soldier in his helmet, it goes flying off, the dude stands 
 there stunned, turns around quickly to look at his helmet, and then back with a look of "Oh Crap!" 
 on his face. It can take many shots to take down a soldier too, if you don't get a clean head shot. 
 You will see some soldiers crawling or dragging themselves by their arms slowly safety, or so they 
 think. The AI of the soldiers are also great. Enemies will chase you down and beat you relentlessly 
 with the butt of their guns until you are dead, or you manage to do the same to them.
  
  The game also adds smoke bombs which are quite effective. While it blinds both sides, if the enemy 
 is laying down some heavy suppressive fire, it helps to at least advance closer to the enemy to 
 eliminate them.
  
  And it wouldn't be Call of Duty 2 without your gratuitous moment of violence and cinematics. Blood 
 abounds aplenty, along with your choice swear words. And there is one quite cinematic moment where 
 your character is injured at a beachhead, you're being dragged to safety, and see the gruesome 
 devastation of your squad being pulverized.
  
  The multiplayer game offers some fun gameplay options, incuding CTF and base capture. Although 
 it seems there's little room to hide and be covert, but I guess that would make it too advantageous 
 for snipers.
  
  Overall Call of Duty 2 is a fun game with lots of fun moments. It seems there could be more variety 
 however. But it was a very entertaining run nevertheless. I look forward to a future expansion 
 and hopefully some major changes to Call of Duty 3 in the future. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: alw1969
Rating: 5.8
Date: Nov 11, 2005 5:38 pm PT
Review:  This game has been a rush job to grab the Christmas market.
  
  It's a mighty step backwards in the series.
  
  OK it has prettier graphics. DirectX9 setting 
 doesn't work ( well it does if you want 10 FPS.. read the forums on other COD2 sites to prove my 
 point.) , so the DirectX7 setting will have to suffice. A patch needed at such an early stage? 
 Surely not.
  
  Vehicles? NO. Cook grenade? NO. Sprint? NO!!!!!!!!!. That was one of the best features in United 
 Offensive. WHY NO SPRINT?
  
  4 out of 11 online multiplayer maps are exactly the same as COD and UO!!!! And the online maps 
 are so small. Online is so disappointing. Its more like an expansion pack.
  
  I'll leave you (if anyone actually reads this) with these words. 
  
  I have a top spec PC, 
 nothing faster. best graphics card X 2.
  
  This game plays and feels like a console.
  
  Is COD 2 coming out for the forthcoming Xbox 360? Well the answer is YES. And that is what this 
 game has been made for.
  
  If you haven't bought COD2 yet but have the Original and United Offensive, just stay with those 
 2.
  
  United Offensive is by far superior. 
  
  Remember ... rush job ... Christmas market ....
  
  youv'e been warned.
  
  Alan
  Sunderland
 
  UK 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mcgirk00
Rating: 6
Date: Nov 4, 2005 8:03 pm PT
Review:  This could have very well been the perfect game, but this never-before-tried "no-quicksave" feature 
 really produces some issues that need to be addressed. I am of course, playing on the hardest skill 
 setting. Getting past some of these levels is quite a challenge - and also quite a time investment. 
 So imagine my frustration, when it takes me about two hours to reach an autosave point, only to 
 have a mortar land on my head one second after the save... No possible action could be taken to 
 avoid death. Since the game does not have a prior-save rollback, the only option was to restart 
 the level. 2 HOURS OF WORK SHOT IN THE A**!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! !@#$%. So in closing, this game 
 seems a bit more frustrating than fun... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheBigBlackHole
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 4, 2005 7:20 pm PT
Review:  With the release of Call of Duty 2 comes great improvements on the original game. For one the HUD 
 is entirely invisible only coming on when you reload or chuck a grenade. So the HUD never pulls 
 you away from the action. I love the new graphics engine, and the gameplay is absolutely incredible. 
 I recommend getting the collectors edition mainly for the strategy and the commentary from the 
 men who lived it. Great game in its own right, my hopes are for a Call of Duty 3. In short the 
 game is a must have I downloaded the demo first to see how it was. And man did I get my full of 
 the game. I knew I had to go out and buy the game which I plan on doing so in the near future. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vbluguitar
Rating: 8.3
Date: Nov 4, 2005 10:05 am PT
Review:  I have been playing COD 2 on Veteran and there are some sequences that are teeth grindingly frustrating, 
 but I love it. I have also been playing with the cross hairs off, so you unless you are in close 
 quarters you really have to stop and aim. I love the new no med kit system. If you get pelted, 
 its over for you. This system forces you to asses the cover of an area and move to it quickly, 
 rather than running in guns blazing. You almost never hit anything when you are running. It seems 
 to me that this is more realistic. If you were there in real life, I am sure you would be very 
 cautious anyway. Unlike COD you only get one chance in real life. 
  
  The missions in COD 2 also feel a bit more realistic than some of the "raid the dam and single 
 handedly kill 500 Nazis" missions of the original COD. the action and pacing (though somewhat scripted) 
 keep a high level of excitement going. When you hear the horn blow and 100+ Nazis come running 
 toward a building you are trying to defend you will feel the desperation of your situation. Especially 
 as they overwhelm your position.
  
  I am currently running this game on a P4 2.66 oc-ed to 2.84GHZ with 1 gig of 333 MHZ ram and an 
 ATI 9700 pro in an AGP 4x slot. I have the reso set at 1280x1024, 2x aa, 4x aniso, and everything 
 else on high, (though I am running in DX7 mode, not DX9) . The game runs very smoothly and only 
 slows down in major battle scenes where there are a lot of explosions going on, and even then it 
 is still pretty playable. The graphics (especially on the russian missions) are a step up from 
 COD 1 and the lighting seems a bit more realistic. You will find yourself squinting to see into 
 a dark building while standing outside in the desert sun. Once you walk into the building it takes 
 a few seconds for your eyes to adjust so you feel a little blind. This definitely adds to the tension.
 
  
  My only complaint is that it seems a bit short. I played through the Soviet campaign in about 3 
 hours, and now I am almost done with the brits after 2 more hours, and once again I am playing 
 on veteran. I can't imagine how much shorter it must be on the easy levels. 
  
  OK one more complaint. The save system often saves you right in front of some Nazi pie-hole who 
 will promptly blow you away if you don't act immediately. This gets irritating after it happens 
 2 or 3 times, especially if he is somewhere that you can't see. You die, you respawn, you die, 
 you respawn, you die... after 4 times of this you are usually pretty ticked off. Oh well. Just 
 don't die I guess :)
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tasuke
Rating: 8.8
Date: Nov 4, 2005 9:00 am PT
Review:  Well im almost done with Call of Duty 2 and i must say its an acceptable game. I discovered that 
 the missions seem rather short in some cases. The missions in COD were alot longer and you knew 
 your allies alot more then you thought. Graphics wise was a big and awsome change along with awsome 
 sound and good detail when it came to big fire fights. I dont know it seems tho that something 
 is missing from the game to make it actualy complete. I also noticed their werent that many big 
 huge fire fights like i saw in COD so i was a bit disappointed on how the game came out to short. 
 Other then that if your a COD fan you will enjoy this game to the fullest. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: The_Saint_JP
Rating: 9.6
Date: Nov 4, 2005 7:14 am PT
Review:  This game is simply AMAZING. I put the CoD series right up there with the Half-Life series. The 
 BEST game out right now. There are very few games that capture my attention enough to play through 
 to the end. However both the CoD games just like the Half-Life series capture and hold my attention 
 so much so that you simply CANNOT wait to see what is next. I know A LOT of people are growing 
 weary of the WWII shooters, but not me! I feel these are SIMPLY the BEST games out. Especially 
 when done as well as the CoD series. Games like F. E. A. R. and DOOM I personally do not care for 
 very much. While they are VERY nice graphically (which I enjoy A LOT) the gameplay does get repetitive. 
 Yet with CoD and CoD2 there ALWAYS seems to be something new. The environments in the CoD series 
 are BY FAR the best I have ever played. You are in a new setting, a new town, heck  even a new 
 country every few missions. And the way they incorporate playing as a soldier from 3 different 
 countries is simply top notch. I attribute EXCELLENT presentation of these games to the extremely 
 hard work of those at Activision and Infinity Ward. If any of you reading this are affiliated with 
 either of those companies THANK YOU guys and gals VERY MUCH for putting out such excellent work. 
 You are the ones that will bring gaming to the forefront of the entertainment medium.
  
  I know I mention quite a bit about the excellent environments and sound, however the graphics and 
 gameplay really are equally as impressive. I always enjoy how many AI soldiers the CoD series can 
 work into the gameplay at once. This is another portion of the game that makes it so immersive. 
 At any given time you may have what seems to be 20, even 30 or so AI soldiers running around on 
 the screen. All the while being worried about tanks, artillery fire, and even the planes from above. 
 I know a lot that is simply scripted into any particular scene, however the way they implement 
 all of this makes you feel that it is real-time action. In my opinion everything in the CoD series 
 has simply been then best.
  
  If you are slightly interested in CoD2 I urge you to play the demo and if you find it even slightly 
 entertaining then you will most certainly enjoy the full version. I really feel the demo does not 
 do the full game justice, but that is actually a good thing. The team does not give too much away 
 in the demo. They simply make it entertaining enough to capture you attention and then the full 
 version will simply blow you away. No pun intended.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: natafer671
Rating: 9.8
Date: Nov 3, 2005 11:08 pm PT
Review:  Many people have complained about the new player health situation. If you are a player who thrives 
 on absolute realism, this game is not for you. However, if you like intense non-stop fighting action, 
 this game is one of the most action packed game on the market. 
  
  Most experienced first person shooter players can probably make it throught the campaign in about 
 12 hours on normal difficulty. Even though it doesnt take long to beat, it is satisfying the entire 
 way. However, if you ratched up the difficulty to the next highest point it will take much longer 
 to play through. The next difficulty offers better enemy AI, and gives a more authentic feel of 
 WWII fighting.
  
  Overall this is one of the most intense shooters I have ever played and I highly reccommend it 
 to anyone who is interested in playing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DRyOrange_basic
Rating: 7.8
Date: Nov 3, 2005 10:47 pm PT
Review:  You are part of a gaint war machine. You are not the hero but band of brothers that fight against 
 the evil. Sounds familiar? COD2 is just that, familiar theme and proud of it. It delivers the choas 
 and confusion you get in a war. Sometime too much. In one level I literally sit out the whole defence 
 in one corner listening to the repetitive shout from my team. It's confusing and stupid at time 
 (but some peeps might said that some soldier survive by hiding) . Nevertheless, it's an action pack 
 game. Just wish thoseenermy at 2 o'clock... dont worry I got it, just sit here" can be done 
 a little better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Buick87GNXv6
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 4, 2005 7:36 am PT
Review:  - I just finished with the singleplayer portion of CoD2 and I have played some multiplayer also. 
 This game has went back to the old school for infantry fps games. If you are looking for a vehicle 
 camping first person shooter this is not your game, the focus is on infantry fighting and tactics.
 
  - In CoD/CoDUO I would never use the iron sights and the lean buttons.... in CoD2 you need to use 
 these buttons to kill and survive (which is the way it should be) . Everything from the sounds to 
 the graphics rock!!!
  The singleplayer is short but for me it could never be long enough because I could play this game 
 for hours and hours. It took me a little while to get used to having the nades and smoke on there 
 own buttons but it is faster to use them and you dont have to cycle through all the weapons to 
 get to them...
  - The sniper rifle is greatly improved with a steady button (for breathing) added, there is nothing 
 better than seeing a nazi jumping a wall and zero in on him, hit the steady button, squeeze the 
 trigger and watch his body and helmet go flying.
  - I do not know why they did not add the sprint key and vehicles... they could of just added a button 
 to turn off vehicles after all. Maybe they will add an expansion pack for this game also... I hope 
 so!
  - I see CoD3 is in the works and I wonder where it will take us.... WWII is such a huge part of 
 history and there is still so many stories to tell... the franchise could go on for a long time.
 
  - I have been with CoD series games since the start and you can call me a fanboy if you like but 
 its true I AM A HUGE FAN!!
  This game should have easily gotten a editors choice and a higher review score. If you are a fan 
 of great first person shooters and or WWII history, games etc.... This is a must buy, all the CoD 
 PC games are... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: darkness69
Rating: 9.4
Date: Nov 3, 2005 5:51 pm PT
Review:  Ok to start off i think that this is much better then the first call of duty and i loved that game. 
 they improved the gameplay alot and they made it more realistic to the guns and the accuracy of 
 that time period. Also the graphics for CoD2 was pretty damn amazing even with my geforce 6600gt 
 it looked nice a bit laggy when there was alot of action going on but still i knew i was going 
 to have some lag with eveything on high with my vid card. Also the selection of weaponary in CoD2 
 is pretty good and very accurate to the time of the war very good models for the weapons. Finally 
 I would like to comment on the detail of the characters even if they wern't main soilders like 
 cpt's or generals they gave them the same amount of detail as the other soilders which i think 
 is pretty good so all in all i reccommend buying this game but only if you have a really good computer-=) . 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: robjkay
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 3, 2005 5:09 pm PT
Review:  Just bought this game and I have to say I love it so far!!! The graphics are just great and so 
 is multiplayer mode. Use to playing Medal Of Honor & Battlefield so it all works out! Also it works 
 pretty good on the computer, its not a hog such as using alot of memory. Therefore you should have 
 no problem running it.
  
  Cannot wait for the next installment to come out, I believe its Call of Duty, The Big Red One!
 
  
  Anyway enjoy the game and have some fun. I believe thats whats its all about anyway.... LoL
  
 
  Thanks,
  Rob 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zyndrex90
Rating: 9.6
Date: Nov 3, 2005 4:02 pm PT
Review:  This game Is amazing. Be it the great graphics (playable with old video cards) the memorable quotes 
 or the action packed scenes This game is worth Buying. 
  The game doesnt have a backstory of its own, It takes place in WWII and you start playing with 
 the russians, and later on you can play with the UK or America. The makers of the game actually 
 hired people to put in accent of wherever and whoever you are playing with to make this a better 
 experience, and funnier to some extent.
  Graphics are very good, And you can play the game with older video cards; but we cant really argue 
 sound, its not the main center of this game, but it makes a good remake of a battllefield.
  This game is completely worth its value, and wont be found in the bargain part for a while. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: markc1960
Rating: 7.9
Date: Nov 3, 2005 12:33 pm PT
Review:  I have purchased just about every WWII FPS out there. Only one of them has had all the elements 
 required to make a game addictive. CoD was it! And CoDUO was the icing on the cake with the addition 
 of sprinting, smoke grenades, weapons, and vehicles. How could CoDUO be topped? Well, if anyone 
 could I figured they could. Wow was I wrong! They seemed to lose the recipe somewhere along the 
 line. The worst thing was that they actually REMOVED some of the things that made UO... like SPRINTING!!! 
 C'mon guys! What's with that!!!! The weapons don't have the same feel anymore (although they are 
 still okay) . The enemy deaths mimic MoH more than they do CoD. Lot's of quick falls and jerky movements. 
 Maybe they should play Far Cry and model after that. I don't like the enemy radar. The jusy is 
 still out on the health change. People say it is unrealistic but how realistic is going around 
 picking up health packs.
  
  The sound is still great and in some cases I've notoced improvements. Visuals are very good but 
 nothing ground-breaking. Game play is adequate but nothing like the interviews seemed to indicate. 
 They talked all about wide open spaces and multiple ways to complete a mission. Well, still seems 
 rather scripted to me.
  
  I don't see how multiplay will catch on unless some improvements are made to the game. UO is much 
 more fun.
  
  CoD2 is a decent game but it really is just more of the same... only not the same.... worse in some 
 ways. In comparison to other WW2 shooters, it excels but it is disappointing overall. For that 
 reason I am giving it a rating of 8. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: adaptorrr
Rating: 9.7
Date: Nov 3, 2005 11:13 am PT
Review:  No other game comes near to the pashion of all the call of duty series. Its amazing hom much i 
 feel for this amazing game series. But call of duty 2 gives me everything for what i was looking 
 for, great great graphics, all new game play, amazing new AI, new guns and vehicals, the best campaign 
 ever set eyes on, such pashion in it, so much depth, multiplayer that blows you away. My last word 
 is that all the call of duty games are more than just computer games, no there much more than that, 
 there just the best thing ever made, so if you like all the call of duty games, fight, bye this 
 game, it has the whole package, remember call of duty, all of them has, Pashion, Honour, Pride
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: stopchris
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 3, 2005 10:18 am PT
Review:  most people are saying that the graphix arent as good as uo..... this is a BIG lie! these are people 
 with ancient systems that cant run it at a decent level. for crying out loud people UPGRADE you 
 system. i run just below max settings and i still run a 5950 vid card and a 64 bit 3200. these 
 arent top of the line anymore, but still run this game close to max! the people who complain about 
 bad graphix are still in the p3 era and are going to take more new generation games to finaly upgrade. 
 
  
  as for the lie about no tanks, sprint, or cooking nades...... play this game for more than a couple 
 mins. youll get used to it and actually see why they made it this way. all of this just made the 
 game less realistic and began to make it so you did not have to stratigize...... now you actually 
 have to find cover and think about your next move. 
  
  as for the health regen system.... this makes the game far more realistic! now you get a sence 
 of death and fear it. they also made the shots more deadly. you get hit twice and your gone. you 
 get hit once and you better find cover to recover health. headshots are more critical here too. 
 no more spraying till you kill em. the guns are a little less accurate when you are not aiming 
 so you have to actually aim your gun....... what a concept! they have definitly taken steps to 
 eliminate the noob spray and pray factor that cod 1 turned into!
  
  there is one thing that can be improved upon...... they added a shotgun to the game..... this gun 
 is rediculas. every lame o that has no skill grabs one of these. its one hit from close range, 
 so every noob hides behind a corner waiting to jump out and shoot you. hopefully they will fix 
 this in an update.
  
  the single player campaine is one of the best experiences thus far in a first person shooter. they 
 have made several steps to increase the realism and give you the feel of bieng in a war.
  
  as for the lie about this game bieng a consol port..... what a lie! the makers simply got rid of 
 alot of the things that made the last installment lame. the noob factors! tanks, nade cooking, 
 sprinting, spraying ect.... dont believe this hype, everyone is just mad cause the expected more 
 of the same. remember we have been playing cod 1 for years now. of course it will be hard to get 
 used to something different from what we expect! so again, DONT BELIEVE THE HYPE!
  
  in conclusion, this game is great! the makers have made several changes that are tough to get used 
 to, but when you do you will begin to appreciate greatly. this taken from someone who was upset 
 by all of the changes my first couple hours of the game, but that has grown to love the experience. 
 
  gamespot has downplayed yet another great game by giving this game an 8.8...... this game is 10.0 
 worthy! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xbxjetraider
Rating: 8.1
Date: Nov 3, 2005 2:09 am PT
Review:  Call Of Duty 2:
  THeir are a lot of WW2 shooters available on the market. None of them can give you can experience 
 quite like Call of Duty, and it's expansion pack. THat was all good then. Now, it's sequel time, 
 and we have Call Of Duty 2.
  
  Call of Duty 2 looks much better than before. The games visuals are extremley impressive. The character 
 models are nicley done, and the games ingame cinematic presentation is well done. The only bad 
 thing about the graphics is that it suffers from a horrible framerate at times. You'll definitley 
 notices the slow down becuase it interferes with gameplay. THis realy hurts the game since it happens 
 on what should be one of the better moments of the game.
  
  The sound is impressive. Hearing the game in 5.1 surround sound is how it should be heard. THe 
 cry of war is definitley one of the games strong points. This realy makes the game more impressive. 
 However while the sound effects are nice, the whole private ryan motife of musical scores are sometimes 
 thrown off by missions that dont exactly seem to push you the limit of waiting for the calvary 
 to charge in when you just fired your last bullet.
  
  The gameplay in Call Of Duty is truly amazing. The AI is actually smarter. They respons to most 
 situations you may throw them in, and they may throw you in situations when you went expect to 
 be in a situation. You'll be surrounded when you know that the games initial script didn't have 
 you surrounded, the AI was the one who surrounded you, not the original stage script. The gameplay 
 does have it's draw back. Sometiems the action may seem a bit dull and uninspired. At times you'll 
 feel like your just searching for a wandering soldier to kill to end the mission.
  
  Call Of Duty isn't quiet as good as it's predecessor. However it isn't a bad or broken game. It 
 plays well. If you're in the mood for shooting Nazis and invading Normandy, then pick this one 
 up. You wont be dissapointed.
  
  SYSTEM SPECS: Gigabyte K8N- SLI Motherboard, 512mb (2x) Ram, 256mb XFX 6800GT, AMD Athlon 3500+, 
 120gb IDE HD, 16x DVD Rom 
::::::

::::::
UserName: petcali
Rating: 4
Date: Nov 3, 2005 2:06 am PT
Review:  this game is a total waste of money and time. Stick with COD/ UO for fun and cool game play. Hell 
 I payed for it and now it's being returned. New graphics and sound did not really improve the so 
 so game play. Maps are drawn out in single player , but that did not save this game at all. MP 
 is a total waste with small maps and target indication when firing weapons blind (crosshairs turn 
 red on enemy) . also the noob tips like when to jump out of trenches, through windows and such. 
 Wow did IW get everything wrong. all I can say is "Danger Will Robinson ,Danger, danger". 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CilentWidow
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 3, 2005 12:08 am PT
Review:  What can i say, no other game comes near to the pashion of all the call of duty series. Its amazing 
 hom much i feel for this amazing game series. But call of duty 2 gives me everything for what i 
 was looking for, great graphics, all new game play, amazing new AI, new guns and veihcls, the best 
 campaign iv ever set eyes on, such pashion in it, so much depth, multiplayer that blows you away. 
 My last word is that all the call of duty games are more than just computer games, no there much 
 more than that, there just the best thing ever made, so if you like all the call of duty games, 
 fight, bye this game, it has the whole package, remember call of duty, all of them has, Pashion, 
 Honour, Pride. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Volroth
Rating: 5.8
Date: Nov 2, 2005 4:54 pm PT
Review:  If you're a big fan to the series than you'll be dissapointed. I advise you to spend your money 
 on a better game/save it. Why? Because the Call of Duty series is all about the multiplayer gameplay. 
 In Call of Duty 2, lots of key components that were added in the United Offensive expansion are 
 gone.
  
  1. No Sprint
  2. No Rank System
  3. No Artillery
  4. No Satchel Charges
  5. No Cooking Grenades
  
  These are only just a few of the big problems with Call of Duty 2. 
 There is a new sniping system that allows you to push shift and steady a scoped rifle. Now anyone 
 can pick up a scoped rifle and hold "shift" and get a perfect shot on you. What happened to skill? 
 The grenade indicators nullify the risk of running into the fray and getting blown up. When a grenade 
 is near you, a grey indicator pops up with an arrow pointing where the grenade is. You can easily 
 run the opposite direction and avoid it. You can't carry two guns and pistol anymore, the pistol 
 takes up 1 gun slot, which makes the pistol practically useless in combat. What happened to the 
 health system? Suddenly I can regenerate? How is that possible? Theres more I dislike about this 
 sequel but ill just keep this review shorter. The only replay value this game gets is the muliplayer, 
 if the multiplayer isn't good than its not a good game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: J0nGalt
Rating: 9.1
Date: Nov 2, 2005 1:17 pm PT
Review:  Great game, if you enjoy first person shooters you shouldnt pass this one up. 
  
  awsoem AI, great historical story line. Amazing graphics. Its got it all.
  
  Its tracks all 
 the different sides of the allies but doesnt let you play the nazis. This would be its only shortcoming. 
 But what it does give is by far enough to make it very enjoyable.
  
  Vehicle levels are fun but only when you can operate them. The truck level is damn hard.... but 
 you will see.
  
  if you like this play:
  Half life 2
  doom 3
  quake 4
  medal of honor
  farcry 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cdn_bacon
Rating: 9.4
Date: Nov 2, 2005 1:12 pm PT
Review:  Call of Duty 2 is the squel to the game of the year from 2 years ago. Infinity Ward stuck to what 
 made the original so good and chnages a couple things up just a bit. When you start to play the 
 game you get that old feeling back from when you used to play CoD. The graphics are stunning, the 
 effects are bang on and the sound is just amazing.
  
  The gameplay is basically the same as the gameplay from the original except the intensity has been 
 multiplied by 100. It is a constant barage of German troops running at you. It does not let up 
 at all through out the whole game. If there is a pause in the action for a minute or so, you know 
 you are in trouble when it starts back up. The game is all about cover and planning your attack. 
 Flanking is huge in this game and there usually always is a way to get it done. One thing you will 
 notice is the lack of a health bar. IW went with a rechargable health system fr this one, and it 
 truely doesn't effect the game that much, and fits the style of play of CoD2 better. A lot of timea 
 you will have to hold down a certain area, and unless the health packs regenerate the level would 
 have to be littered with them. Another thing they added was smoke grenades. These are awesome. 
 Use them to block your enemies sights but be careful when you enter the smoke, you may come out 
 of it in front of 10 Germans.
  
  The sound is amazing. There is always bombs and fire fights going off in the distance. If you have 
 a surround system, use it for this one. You always feel liek you are surrounded and it just totally 
 immerses you into the action.
  
  The graphics are awesome and do not require a huge system to run it. For older machines, just turn 
 on DX7 settings and all is good. With DX9 though, wow! The water is beautiful, to bad you don't 
 see it more. The shadding and textures are great, although they do have a plastic look to them, 
 some times the DX7 looks a little more realistic.
  
  If you were a fan of the first game, then you will definetely love Call of Duty 2. A solid game, 
 that I personally have been waiting for since I beat CoD! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BLaZE1818
Rating: 9.3
Date: Nov 2, 2005 11:13 am PT
Review:  The game is awesome if you ask me. Right now it lacks a few good qualitys. But i think with patches 
 those can be improved on. I think the regenerating health should have an option for health packs 
 instead. I think the grenades are hard to get used to at first but when i got used to them i thought 
 they are fine. The ladders are a little hard to get on at times. But i was suprised at how compatible 
 the game is with lower end systems and i congratulate them for that. I think theyve done a great 
 job with this game if you dont have it go out and buy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hamburgerphil
Rating: 8.9
Date: Nov 2, 2005 9:37 am PT
Review:  Wow, this is an amazing game. If you still love World War 2 games, or enjoyed earlier releases 
 of the Call of Duty series, make sure you get this one. The modding community is already going 
 bananas making tweaks for multiplayer, so don't bother with the constant whining on the forum; 
 The multiplayer is a blast and the SP is one of the most engrossing and crazy experiences I have 
 ever had in a game. The russian campaings were a dissapointment, I guess because in the first game 
 they were the hallmark and in this version the American and Brits get the best missions. The american 
 storming of pointe du hoc and it's subsequent defense are my favorite missions along with the capture 
 and defense of hill 400. Get it now! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dark_knight150
Rating: 9.3
Date: Nov 2, 2005 9:27 am PT
Review:  For anyone who enjoyed the first two titles in this series, you'll know how good they were. Complete 
 with awesome graphics and missions, they also supplied completely immersive and cinematic gameplay. 
 There's no joke if you hear someone talking about playing in a movie. There's action everywhere, 
 and there's so much going on you actually feel like you're in a war. Bring all these elements together, 
 and you have one of the best WWII games out there. Then add a sequel....
  Call of Duty 2 brings an improvement on audio, graphics, and overall performance. The shear size 
 of some levels give you the ability to pick and choose which objectives you'd like to do first. 
 Along with that is a missions chart which also allows you to pick and skip certain campaign levels 
 if you don't like them or are too challenging. When you get down to the game, just about everything 
 has been improved on. The graphics look fantastic, displaying the various environments you'll encounter 
 through the three standard campaigns. Audio also adds to the game, making fights more immersive. 
 Team mates and enemies alike will bark orders and give away positions in the heat of battle. The 
 developers have also gotten rid of the health meter, forcing players to rely more on indications 
 such as fuzzy and shellshock kind of look when heavily wounded. Give it afew seconds and you'll 
 be healed completely, run and gun and you'll risk death. Overall, it's the original x2, which of 
 course is always a good thing. Historical footage also plays between campaigns, adding to the authenticity.
 
  One aspect that I read was that this games is something of a system hog, and may bog down to a 
 chug in certain maps. I didn't experience that problem anywhere, but keep that in mind when you're 
 considering this game. Some of the missions take a little trial and error when attempting to beat 
 them, wchich can get annoying after awhile. Besides that, this game was awesome and definitly worthit. 
 So go check it out, that's an order! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Frame
Rating: 8.7
Date: Nov 2, 2005 7:53 am PT
Review:  If you thought the Omaha Beach level in Medal of Honor: AA was good, then the Point du Hoc level 
 is that and so much more. COD 2 is by far the best WWII shooter to date, whether it is the photo 
 realistic graphics or the ear shattering sounds, it does it well.
  
  The gameplay is superb, the guns look, sound and feel very realistic. While it may take a while 
 to get used to the new regenerating health system, it forces you to seek cover and not blindly 
 rushing out. The new checkpoint system encourages you to try different approaches, and is a welcome 
 addition. In some levels the player also gets to choose the order of which object to complete first, 
 raising the replaybility of the game further. The AI of your allies is decent, they can hold their 
 own in fire fights, they also call out when they spot enemies, making your life a lot easier. 
 
  
  The multiplayer consists of the same modes that were present in COD, HQ, Search and Destroy, DeathMatch, 
 Team DeathMatch. Although nothing much has changed from COD, it is still highly enjoyable. 
  
  On the downside, COD2 requires a mid-high end system to run well. The WWII setting is also 
 getting a little stale. The enemy AI, while a little better than COD, still needs more work. The 
 type of gameplay for each level also tends to get recycle alot: Attack here, Defend against a superior 
 enemy, Wait for reinforcements. While the game immerses you into the trenches of WWII, you don't 
 really feel any attachment towards your fellow soldiers. Unlike COD, the main characters in COD2 
 are pretty much forgettable.
  
  All in all, this is a great WWII game, and you should pick it up if you like First Person Shooters. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: EZMoney18
Rating: 9.3
Date: Nov 1, 2005 9:00 pm PT
Review:  In my opinion this is the best game in the series. Every mission is fun and exciting, it brings 
 action in your face. If you have good PC the game will blow you away visually, explosions, smoke. 
 Sound is good too, really makes you fell like you inside the action. The game totally deserves 
 your $50. Some of the other things I liked in the game-play is that it puts you together with other 
 soldiers and makes you feel like part of the team. It also allows you to play 3 different campaigns, 
 all of them are allot of fun. So far console game versions of CoD did not impress me much they 
 lack some things that PC gains. PC versions allow you too add Mods= Modifications to the original 
 game. Mods allow you to experience another game entirely. Consoles are not the same. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BringitB_ach
Rating: 8.7
Date: Nov 1, 2005 8:29 pm PT
Review:  The graphics are solid and particle effects are breathtaking, however when playing multi player 
 on-line there are so many people crammed into some of the maps that people are constantly running 
 into one another, especially in door ways, that it gets plain frustrating at times.
  To think that Call of Duty 2 is supposed to be the next installment in the series that they would 
 have included vehicles and the always entertaining artillery support in the multiplayer maps, but 
 EA didn't, it was like they took a step backwards, very disappointing.
  Overall it's a good game if you like to run and gun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ocelotski
Rating: 8.9
Date: Nov 1, 2005 7:11 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay and AI are a bit better but clearing buildings and kill-and-advance tactics get repetitive 
 especially during last few missions. After beating the game, I kinda felt that it should have had 
 more missions to play through in single player but that's just me. Multiplayer seems awkward at 
 first playing in familiar maps but with a few new additions and totally different graphics, lighting 
 and smoke/fog effects... maybe I'm just saying this coz my system only allows me to play it using 
 Dx7 : ( ... but who's complaining? Been a big fan of this game since it first came out because of 
 its intensity, immersiveness, educationality, and being the first WWII game I ever played with 
 a weapons aim-down feature ;) ... the main thing that converted me from being a die-hard MOHAA 
 fan :D 
::::::

::::::
UserName: eapplen
Rating: 7.1
Date: Nov 1, 2005 6:46 pm PT
Review:  I went into this game without huge expectations, but at least expecting something new. The truth 
 is that this game is essentially a much more polished version of the original Call of Duty - the 
 graphics are sharper, the sound is great. 
  
  That said, what I really look for in a game like this is some sort of immersion. While the graphics 
 and sounds were great, it played like shooters that came out 3 years ago, and as a gamer I've become 
 somewhat jaded to that. Once the game begins to feel mechanical, I become completely detached from 
 the game, and it becomes more of an exercise than an actual experience.
  
  Another big issue here for me was that each of the missions seems extremely small in length and 
 scope. There are no sprawling missions that take you across large maps. Instead, each mission seems 
 completely contained and isolated, and were each finished in less than 10 mintues - that's just 
 not enough to get me emotionally involved.
  
  It IS a solid game, and might be worth playing if you are a die-hard WWII shooter fan. That said, 
 if you've spent any time recently playing the exceptionally well made F. E. A. R., then this game 
 will definitely leave you underwhelmed - it is doomed by the mere fact that it is following several 
 shooters that are pushing the medium forward, while it sticks to the old tried and true formulas. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kokojambo
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 3, 2005 3:09 pm PT
Review:  am a fan of all the call of duty's and this one disappoints. It looks terrible, and is nothing 
 improved from the first two games. The graphics are totally bad compared to what other games bring 
 to the table and it does not even come close when it comes to textures and models. You can get 
 more money's worth out of Day of Defeat: Source then this game. I still do not understand why people 
 give this game more then it diserves. Just a word of wisdom, I am not curved towards valve games, 
 nor do I hate infinity ward or activision. I just don't think that it is what it was cracked up 
 to be.
  
  starkist 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: maxkrauth
Rating: 9.4
Date: Nov 1, 2005 12:57 pm PT
Review:  I have been a huge fan of Call Of Duty, its immersive gameplay, and its wonderful sound track. 
 Call of duty 2, just like the first one, takes all of the great elements from this worn out genre 
 and does them right. The gameplay sucks you in the second you play it, with a very challenging 
 enemy AI and wonderful graphics. The sound of your fellow comrades dying, shouting orders, and 
 calling for help works like no other game. Overall, it is a wonderful game that you should pick 
 up and try. For me, however, the price was just a bit to high. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cleaner1
Rating: 6.3
Date: Nov 1, 2005 9:06 am PT
Review:  Call Of Duty 2 turned up to be a very disappointing game, there is nothing new in it, I would have 
 liked to have abit control on the other soldiers like in brothers in arms and when some one dies 
 they stay dead (on both sides) .
  The difficulty in the is very easy even when you play on veteren, and the game it self is very 
 short (did I allready mentiond it's disappointing) .
  The only thing good about it is that you get to play 3 different fronts, the russian front (I found 
 quite amusing) , the british and the american.
  so if you are a fan of historic games this game is for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kalv
Rating: 8.3
Date: Nov 1, 2005 6:34 am PT
Review:  This game is too similar to the first CoD. Theres a couple of a new guns, theres a new mission 
 selector feature. YOu don't have to play one nation continously you can change whenever you finish 
 a mission. The graphics and sound is amazing. Very good music aswell. The best part of this game 
 is... you get the throw potatoes at your commander in training mode. I havn't tried multiplayer 
 yet, but i suspect is the same as the first CoD. There is no "health bar" You can be shot a million 
 times, you just die when it says "You are hurt, get cover" when it says that and you are shot a 
 couple of times you die. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fubar2244
Rating: 9.1
Date: Nov 1, 2005 4:00 am PT
Review:  Yeah we all miss the sprint and yes, we miss the health meter... or do we? The game has beefed up 
 it's weapon power and eliminated many features we all were customed to in United Offensive, but 
 who is to say CoD players liked UO. In fact, CoD is more popular than UO. Tanks, artillery and 
 satchels were given mixed reviews and so forth. 
  CoD2 refines gaming as a more strategic approach and Haloish style recover. Some may love it, others 
 may hate it but in reality, the game begins to grow on you. You begin to appreciate the new maps 
 and the restored old maps are gorgeously rendered that they feel entirely different. 
  The only quarrel I have with the game is the recoil. To be blunt, there is none. This adds a beginner 
 perspective on the game but hopefully Infinity Wards upcoming patches will fix this error. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: paTh19
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 1, 2005 2:40 am PT
Review:  so kool this game rocks ... i like it very mutch !!! the best shooter whit war till now ... i think 
 i neva seeen smtg like this one .... is so amazing !!! play it and u will not regret it .... till 
 now i didn`t seen eny bugs or smtg like that ...... this game it realy rocks .... superb ... well 
 done ..... i can say many many many words to this amazing games ..... but i will limit at only 
 SUPERB !!!
  this is the true is the best game i eva seen ... i`m so happy now coz i live to see this game ( 
 lolz ) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Radone
Rating: 6.5
Date: Oct 31, 2005 6:30 pm PT
Review:  The single player is good you can tell they put allot more thought into it, kind of easy on regular.
 
  The multi player just leaves allot to be desired. I The frame rate is awful it's like playing in 
 slow motion, no rank system, NO SPRINT ,No arty. no cooking grenandes, just better graphics and lame 
 game play. I feel this will be the end of the franchise, unless the make a patch to fix the multi 
 player.
  You may ask why am focusing on the multi player so much? Cause the single player could be finished 
 in less then 10 hours, way less as a matter of fact. I'm just very disappointed they screwed it up 
 so bad. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TripleXpacK
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 31, 2005 4:26 pm PT
Review:  Well Call of duty 2 is out or should i say Call of duty 1 and a half. While the game looks great 
 and at times looks like french paintings and sounds terrific and really puts you in the action, 
 there is nothing really new about this title. In multiplayer, you will still play those good old 
 maps like Carentan and Brecourt because they put those in the game as well as new ones (very few) . 
 In weapons department well all of the original weapons are there but a new addition is the buckshot. 
 Yes i already hear players of COD2 callin this weapon a newb weapon and other things i won't right. 
 But really it is! Weapons were just right in the first one and then they put a flammethrower in 
 the expansion and now the buckshot. And what s up with running?? they took of the sprinting in 
 COD2 ,its so slow!! And now you have powers like wolverine in the X-men yes you can heal your self 
 just by hidding for a few seconds i didn't know that soldiers could do that!! Well don't get me 
 wrong this is a good game but if your looking for something new well this game isn't the one for 
 you. If you liked the first one you will like this one too... well i think so, i'm still not sure 
 myself. Play it in single player first because the story is great and well done. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: __qubert__
Rating: 9.3
Date: Oct 31, 2005 3:08 pm PT
Review:  the newest Call of Duty game i found was very well put together. the grafics in this game were 
 the best, some times i would just stop to look at a brick wall because, it look like a rick wall, 
 not just a simple little picture. another thing i liked about this Call of Duty was the healing. 
 what you did to heal was, if you got hit a few times, a red flash was apear and it would say
 Find cover!", once you found it, you just regain health. i guess this is kinda a bad thing for 
 the game, other people might not like it but i thought it was cool, i dont care if its fake. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bangolibasha
Rating: 7.1
Date: Oct 31, 2005 1:39 pm PT
Review:  Well I am one of the biggest COD fans... hell I run a clan! But cod 2 multiplayer is not impressive... 
 the single player very good I am very impressed at greatness of the single player module. The multiplayer 
 is disenchanting and messy. For %^$#S sakes where is the sprint function... no sprint lame infinty 
 real lame. The weapons are not as smooth and the the ranks are gone... man talk about game play 
 killing. Yes yes the graphics are good but the Mp game is garbage... a sort of horrid smelling 
 manure. The expansion better perk up the orig because infinty is losing fans for sure... come on 
 guys do us proud and get on it. Oh yeah can you prime grenades... it doesnt say how to in the manual.. 
 you might but if cant why the hell not!!!
  
  DirtyBangoli 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bchick1
Rating: 9.4
Date: Oct 31, 2005 12:18 pm PT
Review:  Folks, this is what Video Gaming and 'Interactive Entertainment' is all about! After finishing 
 CODII, all I could think of was one word 'Awesome!'.
  I can recall that in the mid 80's I had in my head the vision of what video games could be and 
 I really think that CODII, along with Half Life2, have hit that really sweet spot between technology, 
 programming, and total immersion in other worlds and time.
  The graphics in CODII are truly awe inspiring and I must complement Infinity Ward for REALLY doing 
 their homework when it comes to research of the environments. For example, It really shows in the 
 product that they investigated what Tunisian villiages really look like. When you play in these 
 worlds, there is practically nothing to jerk you back to 'reality' and remind you it is just a 
 game (except maybe dying 85 times and living 86) .
  
  A stroke of genius is the open battlefield environment with multiple approches to goals and the 
 AI's uncanny knack for figuring out what you are up to! The AI is truly magnificent in this game 
 and worthy of a patent.
  
  The sounds or 'battle chatter' is not just 'chatter' as your sqad mates and enemy alike seem to 
 make accurate battle assessments and call out directions and warnings. The battlefield here is 
 truly 'dynamic' as you are immersed in a world that has much more than just 'you' in it. I am even 
 learning German from this game (but it may make for bad dinner conversation..)
  
  This is no 'run n' gun' either! you have GOT to THINK your way through the battlefield. I. W did 
 a marvelous job of keeping you from getting 'lost' and at the same time letting YOU think how to 
 approach objectives. 
  
  The biggest negative for me was getting used to 'grenades'.. I HATE grenades! The enemy is grenade 
 happy! The grenade warning and 'direction of threat' was a very welcome addition as what is lacking 
 in all games is 'situational awareness'. Your squadmates will yell warnings to you also. My suggesstion 
 to I. W. would be to have made the grenade warning symbol a pale, translucent red show it would 
 be more noticible in the heat of battle.
  
  If you are into into WWII, FPS, or even near these, you have got to get a sample of what 'excellent' 
 is all about and try CODII !
  I can only feel sorry for Infinity Ward programmers who, after celebrating, must now come up with 
 a 'topper' for this one!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: hanzitolindo
Rating: 9.7
Date: Oct 31, 2005 11:56 am PT
Review:  la primera impresion de este juego es que uno esta 100 % en la segunda guerra mundial. Su realismo 
 grafica y en especial la jugabilidad de este juegaso lo hace el mejor de su tipo.
  exelente interfase, mas sus modos multiplayer y su competitiva jugabilidad hacen de este juego 
 en el modo multiplayer a mi gusto el mejor de todos los juegos de este estilo.
  si vas a comprarte un juego basado en la segunda guerra mundial, si quieres brotar adrenalina pura 
 y sentirte enla guerra juega este juegaso
  no dudes en comprarte a ojos cerrados call of duty 2 ya que es el mejor lejos.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: jackie103
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 31, 2005 11:03 am PT
Review:  Once again Activision has outdone themselves with Call of Duty 2, another 
  great game from the Call of Duty lineup. This game is designed as a game should be for hard core 
 gammers to run on top end gamer machines. Activision has managed to replicate great graphics, keep 
 the gameing contols for a PC minimal, fantastic music and hours and hours of great combat in multiplayer 
 mode and single player mode as well. Although the game has six cd's to install its well worth the 
 installation setup time. I got my best deal through "go-gamer. com" the game is a bit pricey but 
 worth every penny. I received it today and I have played the first level for almost 4 hrs. in hard 
 mode. So far not one glitch on my machine which is topped out
  4.0 CPU, AMD Alienware, piggyback NVIDIA video cards, creative soundblaster audigy L2 ZS 7.1 channel 
 which call of duty 2 plays to perfection. Call of Duty 2 is probably the long long awaited game 
 of 2005
  and 2006 none finer. Just another fantastic game from Activision. I don't belive that the programers 
 etc. at Activision know what the words "we cannot do that" mean. Congrats once again Activision.
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: frenchpanda
Rating: 8.3
Date: Oct 31, 2005 10:51 am PT
Review:  Good news: Carentan is back, there is a tweaked version of dawnville, railyard is back
  
  Shotgun!
  
  Bashes always kill 
  
  Bar is relatively useless now
  
  Mp44 is relatively 
 awesome now
  
  Rifles and Shotguns take the lead in popularity over automatics, returns to COD's Mohaa roots
 
  
  The weapon skins on the scoped lee enfield and scoped mosin-nogit (sp. :P) look amazing
  
  The sound of bullets whizzing past your head and hitting the guy next to you
  
  There is 
 now ingame voice chat, very fun 
  
  No more tommy rushers... now they use shotguns :)
  
  A person with a SMG seems to be a good counter so a shotgunner
  As long as they survive the 
 first shell they will win
  
  
  
  Bad news: Brecourt is back (lol)
  
  Some maps are a bit too tight for 26+ people and grenades are more potent, resulting in bloodbaths 
 a second and a half into the start of a round
  
  If anything makes you quit a server it will be the damn grenades :P
  
  People who rush with 
 rifles and whine about how overpowered the shotgun is cuz a rifle cant handle one at 5 feet
  
  I dont like how much faster paced the gameplay is, personally i would rather see more use of 
 cover like in the last game, it seems this game is more bunny hopping and blasting than the last 
 one by far
  
  
  
  Other: Weapon fire patterns are VERY tight now, everything is very accurate through the ironsights, 
 virtually no recoil through the sights on the 44 or the garrand
  
  PPSH is annoying as ever... but now you can send them flying with a shotgun shell
  
  I dont 
 believe the shotgun is overpowered, its not as bad as they say
  You cant cross an open field and pick off a sniper out of a window 100 yards away with it, in close 
 quarters it is devastating, out in the open.. no
  
  
  
  Notes: I really hope that CAL and TWL do not remove the shotgun from the game in their pam modes, 
 many believe that the shotgun is "not part of call of duty" or "is too strong," they believe that 
 the shotgun wasnt a part of the last game so it shouldnt be in real matches now. But the developers 
 put it in the game, it's meant to be there.
  
  Do not expect your COD experience to help you at all... its a new game, your nade tricks wont work, 
 most maps are new or revamped, and all the weapons behave differently 
  
  worth 50 dollars? if you enjoyed mohaa and or call of duty
  
  (mohaa = medal of honor: allied 
 assault)
  
  
  
  I hope this simple review of multiplayer is useful.
  
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: tanker
Rating: 8.9
Date: Oct 31, 2005 10:22 am PT
Review:  Call of Duty 2 makes no jump in the art of the WW2 first-person-shooter (FPS) but it is a refinement 
 on the previous titles. If your system could play Call of Duty well you probably wont have any 
 trouble with your hardware on this one. Graphics are better especially the smoke and the environments 
 are the best yet in a WW2 title. Sound is outstanding for both sound-effects and voice. The human 
 models are well done but not to the standard of Half-Life 2. AI is much improved as well.
  
  The best new features are the missions and damage modeling. You are not tied to one path as 
 much as in previous games. There are multiple routes and approaches to take to finish an objective 
 although still not as free form as one would wish. One big change is that your damage/health is 
 no longer displayed. You get red flashes and blurry vision when you are taking too many hits. Simply 
 getting out of the line of fire for awhile will heal you. This is by far the best approach to damage/health 
 in a FPS yet. It prevents you from being penalized for a bit of bad luck when in an area without 
 medkits. It also eliminates the whole silly searching for medkit concept completely. If you take 
 too many hits without a breather you will die but the game will restart at the last save. This 
 whole approach keeps the game moving and overall has a much better feel to it. All FPS shooters 
 should adopt this approach.
  
  Perhaps the single best feature is that even if you do almost nothing the mission will progress. 
 This works out very well on those few missions where you are either stuck or cant quite figure 
 out what you have to do or, better yet, you just want to do something else. The missions are still 
 heavily scripted which limits replay a bit but they are done in a more segmented way that allows 
 for the mission flexibility. You can at least replay the game trying different approaches to the 
 missions.
  
  One minor downside to the game is the save system. You cannot make any manual saves. But the game 
 does auto-save at key points and these are rarely a problem. Some are perhaps not quite where you 
 would want to save but close enough. Again the system keeps you in the game and keeps things moving.
 
  
  There are other issues as well: MG42s with endless ammo and no overheating. The tank missions are 
 a bit too fast moving; it is almost like flying fighters instead of tanks. Another annoyance is 
 the three campaigns; you are forced to go in the order of Soviet, British, and American. There 
 is also still no way to play the Germans. The game is very brief as well, maybe 20 hours or so 
 to complete everything.
  
  Overall while in makes no giant leaps for the genre it does make some solid advances and the overall 
 quality makes it the best WW2 shooter yet. Anyone new to the genre will love it and veterans should 
 appreciate it as well. The game even gives a refreshing twist on D-Day with Pointe Du Hoc missions. 
 Recommended..
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: cypherion_X
Rating: 8.7
Date: Oct 31, 2005 8:28 am PT
Review:  Fans of the series will not be disappointed. Even newcomers will find something to delight in while 
 playing Call of Duty 2. This is not to say that the game is without its "flaws".
  
  I personally believe that Activision and Infinity Ward have done a superb job of capturing the 
 chaos and madness of World War 2. Everything from the screams of your dying comrades, to watching 
 the world around you plunge into insanity with stunning visuals, lends to the beautiful experience 
 that is CoD2.
  
  So, lets go through the review shall we?
  
  Pros:
  Gameplay: 
  
  Infinity Ward has re-written the entire health system from the previous two titles, by replacing 
 the old setup for a more "Halo 2" version. Admittedly, this might tone down the "realism" factor, 
 but if this game was concerned about "realistic damage", then I doubt anybody would ever finish 
 the game. Essentially, as you take damage, your vision becomes blurred and your peripheral vision 
 cuts out as well. Despite this, you can gradually return to normal by taking cover and avoiding 
 any additional damage. Just think Halo 2's energy shield system.
  
  The guns handle well, hit-detection has been improved dramatically over the previous entries, and 
 the weapons certainly look more beautiful than before. Also, in multiplayer, artillery and tanks 
 have been removed. Although one weapon in particular disappoints me overall, the shotgun, but we'll 
 get to that in a moment.
  
  Graphics:
  
  What can I say. The game is beautiful, whether you are talking about the lighting, character models, 
 or textures. Just keep in mind that you will be needing a beast of a machine to run this on the 
 extreme settings. Even if you don't, the game looks very good on even the most basic of video requirements. 
 This isn't to say that you'll run it smoothly though.
  
  If anything dropped the framerate for me, it would have to be the 4x Anti-aliasing, which is to 
 be expected. Drop it down to 2x AA if you want to remove some of the rough edges and see how it 
 runs, if it still doesn't run as smoothly as you want, then I'd suggest cutting it out entirely.
 
  
  I'll include my system specs, graphic settings, and average FPS when I update this.
  
  Sound:
  
  This is where CoD2 truly shines. When you play this game, you will literally be hit 
 by the sounds of war at all times. Anything from bombs, distant gunfire, shouts of "Sniper!" or 
 "Germans!" constantly fill the air. All of this really helps create that immersive experience. 
 The guns sound sharp and clear, your AI buddies will constantly roll insults off their tongues 
 aimed at the German troops, and you'll often find yourself admiring the contribution that the audio 
 plays in bringing this game to life.
  
  Value/Replay:
  
  This is where I begin to have my doubts. Once you get done with single-player, or perhaps even 
 before you get done with it, you'll want to dive into the multiplayer. Admittedly, CoD2's multiplayer 
 differs for the very fact that the nature of the health system has changed. Regardless, the multiplayer 
 is a fun distraction that will absorb hours of your time, provided of course that you find a server 
 that doesn't allow shotguns.... which is where the Cons come in.
  
  Cons:
  Gameplay:
  
  Ladies and gentlemen, this is where the problem lies. No, not the health system. I'm talking 
 about the inclusion of the shotgun. It seems no matter what happens, in every game that has a shotgun, 
 it is: overpowerful and oddly accurate at absurdly long ranges. Hopefully the shotgun will receive 
 a huge reduction in power and accuracy come the next update. Until then, I suggest getting into 
 a non-shotgun server to truly enjoy the otherwise great multiplayer this game has to offer.
  
  Graphics:
  
  What to say, the graphics are excellent, but the downside is to run them on 
 the maximum or even high, you'll need a monster of a PC to handle it without dropping into FPS 
 purgatory.
  
  Final Judgment:
  
  Overall CoD2 is a solid FPS title that will please WW2 fans and FPS fans in general. Definitely 
 a quality game that should be considered by all FPS gamers.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: cthulhu34
Rating: 9.4
Date: Oct 31, 2005 8:01 am PT
Review:  Before BF2 I was sure there would be no game that could ever come close. Then BF2 changed for the 
 worse which made the game no different from any other online game, even the same feel BF Vietnam 
 was minus the great soundtrack. The rank system was trashed making lots of room for CoD2 to bypass 
 it and then some.
  
  The playability and multiplayer make this game the most fun i ever had on an online game or singleplayer 
 game. As far as both go this together is the best game i played so far. The WW2 theme is a blast 
 as well as even the NPC's you meet have foregn accents. Very well done, i am impressed:) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: starkisttunalov
Rating: 4
Date: Oct 31, 2005 12:37 am PT
Review:  I am a fan of all the call of duty's and this one disappoints. It looks terrible, and is nothing 
 improved from the first two games. The graphics are totally bad compared to what other games bring 
 to the table and it does not even come close when it comes to textures and models. You can get 
 more money's worth out of Day of Defeat: Source then this game. I still do not understand why people 
 give this game more then it diserves. Just a word of wisdom, I am not curved towards valve games, 
 nor do I hate infinity ward or activision. I just don't think that it is what it was cracked up 
 to be.
  
  starkist 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mesmeric2
Rating: 4.5
Date: Oct 30, 2005 7:07 pm PT
Review:  Well, Call of Duty 1 was a good game, but it had a lot of things which could be improved. Me personally, and 
 i think a lot of other gamers too expected to see these improvements in COD 2. The only improvement 
 i see is graphics, and at the same time i see that game's realism not only did not became better, but 
 it is now even worse than before. The damage system in COD 2 is really stupid for a game that pretends 
 to any kind of realism. It just looks funny when you were loaded full of steel and after a couple 
 of seconds you are still healthy as before without using any medicaments. Even in COD 1 the damage 
 system was better.
  The other funny thing is about Russians. Maybe i will now say something that will be a kind of an 
 amazing revelation for game developers but it's true-Russians don't speak english. I don't believe 
 it was'nt possible to hire some actors. It just looks stupid when all speak their normal languages 
 but Russians speak english.
  Radar indicator is also ridiculous. There is no need and no fun in showing enemies on it.
  So 
 for me this game is a disappointment. I hoped to see some advanced damage system, for example if 
 player's leg gets shot he starts to limp, i expected to see Russians speaking russian, and i certainly 
 did'nt want to be able to see enemies on radar. I think that changing the gameplay to a more arcade 
 side was unwise. Those who prefere arcade shooters have a big choice anyway, but there is a lack 
 of realistic shooters. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RacinJason
Rating: 8.3
Date: Oct 30, 2005 4:22 pm PT
Review:  Call of Duty 2 is the sequal to the execellent Call of Duty that was released in 2003. There are 
 a few changes to the gameplay but nothing really that special.
  
  Gameplay: There has been a few changes to the gameplay of COD2, some good, some not so good. The 
 biggest change to the game would be that you have no health bar. When you get hit the screen turns 
 red, get hit enough and warning will come up to find cover. When you do take cover or stop taking 
 damage your health will come back. While finding health packs isn't really all that realistic it's 
 become a standard in video games. This effect takes away what little realism the game had. Now 
 all you have to do it step out from hiding, kill some germans, take some damage, hide, regain health, 
 and repeat. The only time you will die for sure is if you get swarmed by germans, get blowen up 
 by a gernade, get run over by a tank, get hit by a tank round, get mowed down by a MG42, or beat 
 to death by melee attacks. The AI is more aggressive in COD2, they use gernades alot, and if they 
 are close enough to you they will rush you with melee attacks which are brutal. They also seem 
 harder to kill, it didn't take many bullets to take down a german in COD, but in COD2 it seems 
 to take a few more. After you have shot them and they are on the ground they will pull out a pistol 
 and keep on shooting in your general direction until they die which is a nice touch. As far as 
 campains go, the Russian one is the first you play. The enviroments feel like they are recycled 
 right out of the first COD with the exception of the pipe level and when you have to repair the 
 phone line. I felt like I was playing the first COD over again and though the Russian campain was 
 boring. The British campain takes place in Afrcia which is nice, this is a theater of WWII that's 
 often overlooked in video games. It's a nice change or scenery and the levels are quite fun, this 
 campain also has a tank level which is a little lame. The American campain takes place in Europe 
 and was the most enjoyable for me. You clime the cliffs of Pointe de Hoc on D-Day, clear out the 
 bunkers and trenches of the atlantic wall, battle for Hill 400 and then defend it, and clean the 
 germans out of bombed Norman towns. There are small sniper missions in each campain. There are 
 also photo cutscenes before each mission. Your crosshairs are large and change color, green for 
 friendly, red for enemy, I found the crosshairs annoying. Overall the missions are fun and different, 
 the Russian campain was a little boring but the game gets more fun as you progress through it.
 
  
  Graphics: The graphics are good, a little better then COD but nothing awesome.
  
  Sound: The sound is great, all the weapons sound execellent. The background music is good, but 
 feels a little flat compared to the first COD.
  
  Value: This game has replay value, the missions are action packed and there's multiplayer as well 
 which I didn't play.
  
  Overall: COD2 is a good game, it has it's good points and it's not so good points. I didn't enjoy 
 it as much as the first COD, maybe I'm getting tired of all these WWII fps. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: scorpio_trigger
Rating: 9.7
Date: Oct 30, 2005 3:10 pm PT
Review:  This is the same game with new maps and game mechanics. Overall, the changes make the game better. 
 However, it takes a little bit of playing to get used to. And Lord help you if you go back to play 
 the original CoD immediately after you play this one. 
  
  The gameplay in this game is ALMOST perfect. The only fault I can find with the game is that the 
 new way of throwing a grenade can cause a minor conflict (as far as I am concerned) . Now, you press 
 the "G" key and the grenade is thrown automatically. That is quicker and better. However, when 
 it comes to taking control of a mounted machine gun, you still have to hit the "F" key (no change 
 from the original game) . I keep accidentally hitting the "G" key and wasting my grenades, and sometimes 
 getting shot before I can even get on the gun. This is the only reason I cannot give the game the 
 best score for gameplay.
  
  In my opinion, the graphics in this game deserve the best possible score. You actually see dust 
 particles kicking up off the ground when people run or vehicles move. A lot went in to making this 
 game realistic in appearance, and it truly shows.
  
  Top ratings should go to the sound in this game. Each weapon's sound has been re-worked to sound 
 even more realistic than ever! The music in the game is still as superb as it was in the original 
 game. And teammates even say funny phrases, like: "Hey Hans, your sister wanted me to tell you 
 hello." 
  
  This game is even better than the first "Call of Duty". The only thing missing are the detailed 
 briefings complete with maps and charting that were in the first game. 
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Anchor_Man
Rating: 8.8
Date: Oct 30, 2005 11:01 am PT
Review:  Call of Duty 2 is a great game. Its the predecessor to the original Call of Duty that came out 
 two years ago. Back in its prime the Call of Duty franchise was one of the most well known, it 
 had a good single player campaign but the multiplayer was what made fans keep coming back for some 
 more. Call of Duty 2 lives up to its bigger brother and all of the same senses. 
  
  Just like all of the other Call of Duty games you have the choice of playing a short and intense 
 Single Player campaign and a really solid multiplayer. The single Player campaign lets fill the 
 shoes of a Russian, British and American solider and three different campaigns in the war. You 
 first start off playing a Russian convict in the streets of Stalingrad but later on youll unlock 
 the British campaign that lets you play, for the first time in a WW2 game, in the rocky soil of 
 the desert in Africa! And later unlock the American campaign. 
  
  Just like in the original, you have a compass that shows you where your objectives are but unlike 
 in the first CoD you can do these objectives in any order that you want. Which can make the game 
 more forgiving from being to linear. Youll also find out that some of the missions can be a pain 
 in the back to do, so if you are ever stuck on a mission in the Russian campaign you can always 
 jump on a different one from lets say the British campaign. The AI is also great, which can be 
 seen more from your allies. Theyll tell you where the Germans are or warn you that theres a grenade. 
 It just adds to the authenticity.
  
  After youre done with the Single Player you can always jump right into the Multiplayer part of 
 the game, which is just so damn fun. Theres 5 multiplayer modes to play which include Headquaters, 
 Search and Destroy, Deathmatch, Team Deathmatch, and Capture the Flag. Unlike other MP games, CoD 
 2 lets you jump right into the battles; mainly because the maps arent overly scaled but that doesnt 
 mean they arent good. Every map is just as detailed as the Single Player. There is also the feature 
 of in-game voice, if you have a mic hook it up and then press the Z key and talk with other gamers; 
 though it only works with servers that support it and its a very poor system. 
  
  The game play is just superb, you actually feel like youre shooting an M1 Grand down to suppress 
 some Nazis on the other side of that wall. Every thing is so detailed, from the guns to the buildings 
 youll encounter. When playing you do feel like youre fighting the war, the sound of guns a blazing 
 and soldiers running for cover is just a great experience.
  
  I did have a few minor gripes, first was, yeah you guessed it, the health bar system. Your basically 
 a Superman out on the field, if you get shoot enough times the screen starts to go red and you 
 need to take cover somewhere to regenerate your health. Its bacially like the Halo Health system 
 but it works. Ill have to get use to it. And I did encounter a few bugs, mostly from the Single 
 Player campaign. But all in all Call of Duty two is just plain solid. You wont regret buying the 
 game and you surely wont regret playing it. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: psycotix
Rating: 9.6
Date: Oct 30, 2005 9:26 am PT
Review:  Hmm in my opinion and a lot of others opinion, CoD 2 is perhaps 1 of the best games ever made. 
 8.8 dont make me laugh u gave cod1 9.0 so wtf is all this about. Seems to me after readin reviews 
 for the crappy consoles that u have a biased opinion towards pc. 
  Underating games for the pc and givin stupidly high scores for the crappy console games i mean 
 come on CoD 2 is better on pc than any other format and maybe if u dished out on a proper graphics 
 card then u would see it too. CoD 2 on pc = 9.6 respectively
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: keymjg
Rating: 9.6
Date: Oct 30, 2005 6:50 am PT
Review:  Call of Duty 2 is simply on of the best single player shooter games out there. Although it might 
 be a little to easy to get through and the 'normal' level, its still a whole lot of fun and that 
 to me is the most important part. Fun. Worth the price just for that reason. 
  
  Call of Duty 2 as a Single Player offers you the chance to be a part of everything going on, unilke 
 Half Life 2, still another great game, but who at the single player level depends on the silly 
 helicopters from above to balance the playing field. Its interactive feel is great, with the hundred 
 soldiers attacking you at the same time and you trying to simply survive. Its fun,
  
  But... none of us Call of Duty aficionados ever finished the Single Player version anyway, Multiplayer 
 is where its at. And as far as that goes, its everything the original Call of Duty was plus more. 
 Great maps, some we are going to recognize from the original Call of Duty and some new ones, and 
 there are hundreds of new ones being created as I write this along with all the mods coming down 
 the pike. Its a great community of players and Call of Duty 2 is going to live completely up to 
 it reputation and be a great Multiplayer experience. Its a guarantee that every Muitiplayer buff 
 from the first version is going to be returning for Call of Duty 2 and they are going to have as 
 great an experience with the new version as they did the first version. 
  
  Game on Garth... and have fun doing it.
  
  =gunner=
  Firehouse 70 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: John_Kelly
Rating: 6.5
Date: Oct 30, 2005 4:19 am PT
Review:  Of course I love the Call of Duty franchise, but this game has more of an arcade feel than I remember 
 with the other two. The graphics are great and the action is fast and furious. The player moves 
 relentlessly from one intense situation to the next. It's rather exhausting.
  
  I do not believe there will be much replay value, at least in the single player mode. When I got 
 the original game, I was blown away by the authentic weapons and the immersion created. Now it 
 just seems redundant. I must say I'm a bit disappointed. However, if you are a fan of the series, 
 you'll want it just the same. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hittin
Rating: 9.8
Date: Oct 30, 2005 4:01 am PT
Review:  If you played Call Of Duty 1, and you loved it then this game is the game you must purchase!!! 
 
  Why? Well lets see below.
  If you played call of duty 1 then you will get into this game in no time, you will find it very 
 easy to get used to, and you will have loads of excitement, if you haven't played call of duty 
 1, you should buy call of duty 1 , its only 10 now, but you don't have to buy it, you will get 
 used to it eventually.
  So lets see whats new in this game?
  Graphics
  The graphics have gone better now, thanks to a new engine. 1 gun fight after another, 1 explosion 
 after another, the graphics just get better and it has a real life atmosphere.
  Sound
  The sound in the game is improved, in call of duty 1 it was good, in here its excellent. the right 
 voices and actors have been chosen and the right sound happens after you start shooting or throwing 
 grenades.
  Game-play
  The game play is the best part of this game, you got loads more fun than you did in call of duty 
 1, now theres a few more features like, a new feature that if you push a certain button then when 
 you have a scoped weapon it will hold your breath to make you steady which I think is a really 
 good feature to have, so you dont go all over the place when your sniping. 
  
  Multi player
  Most people will probably finish call of duty 2 in a couple of days, and they will 
 want to play the multiplayer, well the multiplayer is just like counter strike source, its beautiful, 
 you enjoy it, has got improved graphics, and if you finish call of duty 2, then this will not only 
 make you remember call of duty 2 but it might want to make you play it more
  
  hittin 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Axess68
Rating: 9.4
Date: Oct 29, 2005 8:25 pm PT
Review:  WOW! this game is absolutely amazing! You really get into your role and are allowed a great deal 
 of freedom on the battlefield within your mission. For instance, I was facing a German with a mounted 
 machine gun behind sandbags. I watched as he mowed down several of my "comrades" and then figured 
 it was up to me to get rid of him. I grabbed one of my grenades, aimed, stood up and let it fly. 
 It sure cleaned out that machine gun nest in a hurry with the satisfying visual of the enemy being 
 launched into the air. Sure, it's brutal. Sure, it's war. But, this is a game --- and what a game 
 it is!! 
  
  I can't say enough good things about this game. It's completely intense. In fact, it's so intense 
 that I'm surprised I survived during half of my insane suicidal runs into the middle of a group 
 of enemies, jumping around like I was playing Halo and shooting everything in sight!
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Visslik
Rating: 8.9
Date: Oct 29, 2005 6:19 pm PT
Review:  Over the last few years I've gotten pretty tired of the avalanche of World War II-themed shooters, 
 but every now and then one comes alone and really puts the pieces together in an outstanding package. 
 Call of Duty 2 is one of those games.
  
  Like the previous installment you play as a number of Allied soldiers in various historical campaigns. 
 This was a fairly unique thing that really stood out to me in the first Call of Duty, and it's 
 incredible what such a seemingly small detail can do when it comes to immersion into the story. 
 As just getting an objective on the screen isn't nearly the same as one of your squadmates shouting 
 your name and asking for supressive fire.
  
  You start the game as a Soviet recruit named Vasili Koslov, a member of the 13th Guards Rifle Division. 
 The game starts with the obligatory training exercises, showing the uninitiated how to point your 
 gun and shoot at things, as well as some target practice throwing some "grenades" (or in this case 
 potatoes) at some outlined targets.
  
  Soon after word comes in of an offensive push by the Germans and off you go to kill yourself some 
 bad guys in service of your country (of course, if you choose not to the Soviet policy was to shoot 
 you as a traitor to the Motherland, so it's either go forward and shoot the enemy or try to run 
 away and get shot as a deserter) .
  
  AI in this game is significantly better than the first installment (and really just about any shooter 
 I've played in the last few years) . Your comrades respond intelligently, using cover and asking 
 for suppressive fire (which works quite well) , however enemies will as well. The good old  
 feature is alive in all its splendor.
  
  One of the more interesting tweaks in Call of Duty 2 in fact has to do with grenades. The first 
 noticeable improvement is the grenade indicator. When an enemy grenade gets tossed nearby an indicator 
 will show up in the middle of the screen, with an arrow telling you in what direction it is. As 
 you move farther away the indicator will disappear. 
  
  Initially I thought that you had to have the icon gone in order to avoid taking any blast damage, 
 however I learned that the developer Infinity Ward did in fact take some physics into the equation, 
 so being behind cover saves you from taking damage. I of course learned this the hard way as I 
 ran away from a building that would clearly protect me from the minor blast only to be picked off 
 by some second-floor snipers when I left cover.
  
  The second tweak -- and for me the best -- is the implementation of smoke grenades. Due to the excellent 
 AI smoke grenades can be tossed into the street to provide cover for your and your comrades, however 
 they're not a "get out of the firefight free" card, as enemies will fire randomly into the smoke 
 hoping for a lucky shot, and enemies inside the smoke will often retreat to get out of the soupy 
 mess. Picking your shots carefully while in smoke is critical, as if you shoot a teammate your 
 mission ends.
  
  The score in this game is also incredible. As soon as the install program was running I was wanting 
 to put the tunes on my ipod. All sounds in this game are top-notch, down to the ability to hold 
 your breath while aiming through the scope of a sniper rifle, and gasping in air when you release 
 the key. These little things add up to an outstanding game.
  
  The graphics are excellent, but nothing revolutionary given the technology of these times. They 
 are not bad by any estimation, and they are noticeably better than the first game. The better-performing 
 graphics engine allows for the inclusion of the smoke grenades without slowing a system down to 
 a crawl (provided you have a decent video card that is) , as well as environmental upgrades, such 
 as crawling through a pipe and seeing holes get punched into it while enemies below are launching 
 a hail of gunfire at it. No complaints in this department.
  
  Multiplayer is as frantic as one would expect, with the standard deathmatch, team deathmatch and 
 capture-the-flag options available. I've not played much multiplayer as of yet since the single-player 
 campaign is so enjoyable. Shooting others will come later. ;)
  
  I would consider this game a must-buy for any shooter fan, and WWII shooter fans in particular. 
 You won't be disappointed.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: B0L0
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 29, 2005 11:28 pm PT
Review:  Same as the old call of duty but with a lot better graphics. If you're a regular player of fps 
 games make sure you play the harder settings because normal is waaay too easy. After playing DOD: s 
 this feel like an arcade game with a halo type of health regeneration. The concept of the game 
 is the same throughout the game, dodge and shoot nazis. Sure there are some tank battles and other 
 such mini adventures but the bread and butter of this game is run and gun. COD2 gets an A for fun 
 but there is very little replay value and DOD: s beats this game easily when it comes to the multiplayer 
 aspect. COD2 is good for what it is but stick with DOD: s or the Brother in Arms series if you want 
 more of a tactical type game play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dogsuferer
Rating: 8.9
Date: Oct 29, 2005 11:11 am PT
Review:  cod2 is an awsome game. the games graphics have really been ampt up and the sound is basicly perfect. 
 my personal favarite campain is the american then russian then british. the sp game is just soo 
 fun youll never want to stop. the mulitiplayer is the most addictive part. you will spend hours 
 on hours playing it. the gun models are good and the gameplay is fantastic and very intence. if 
 you loved the other cod game i highly recomend this one for you. the ai is so good now, in the 
 distance you will see a mg giving covering fire for others and you will see men basicly working 
 togeter to flank you etc. awsome game!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: racing5112
Rating: 8.9
Date: Oct 28, 2005 9:40 pm PT
Review:  In this sequeal it seems as if the expansion CoD UO was forgotten. all the features like sprint 
 cooking grenades etc. have been lost because CoD UO was developed by a different company... what 
 a loss. oh well the game singal player is still better yet and multiplayer is good but i havnt 
 decided wether or not its better than CoD UO. Sniping has been improved by having a hold breath 
 feature to steady the rilfe. a shotgun is a fun and new weapon that seems to be 1 shot one kill 
 close range and other than that its usless as a shotgun should be. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: British_Apostle
Rating: 9.6
Date: Oct 28, 2005 2:44 pm PT
Review:  Theres not a whole lot to say about Call of Duty 2 except that it completely kicks ass. The first 
 level on the Russian campaign is absolute chaos and destruction with bullets and bodies everywhere. 
 You start in a department store and are forced to hold back a German counterattack which is developing. 
 As you wai by the window looking out through the smoke you start to hear yells and machine gun 
 fire. As it clears you find your position overflowing with German bastards as you go down in a 
 hail of bullets and on Hard hope to survive. What follows is a massive fire fight across a debris 
 riddled field into a German held apartment complex where you must protect your men and plant explosives 
 to blow up the building as the Jerries have barricaded themselves up stairs. After the explosives 
 are planted you haul it back across the field and see the Naix dream crumble before your very eyes. 
 I would say for me it was the best 5 minutes of my gaming life. You would be making a very good 
 decision if you went out and bought this game right now. It is simply a masterpiece. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: battousai188
Rating: 8.9
Date: Oct 28, 2005 1:55 pm PT
Review:  Im pretty hardcore when it comes to FPSs and this one deffinatly takes to one of my top favorites. 
 Gret execution, nice graphics, fantastic gameplay (able to make WWII fighting fresh again from 
 the on slaught of MOH games) and the sound! ohh god the sound is so sweet! Throw on some nice headphones 
 or plug in a big woofer and nice speakers turn the lights off and my god you feel like your actually 
 being shot at! (not that is cool in real life but gaming makes the sensation simply awesome) . Only 
 downfall is it's a system hog and even some of the top systmes bog up while playing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Wolfitz
Rating: 9.3
Date: Oct 28, 2005 11:37 am PT
Review:  Call of Duty 2 is a very good game. The action is just as good, even better than its ancestor. 
 When playing this game, one feels completely in the game. The single-player is very enjoyable, 
 however the multiplayer is what I like the best. Unfortunately, they didn't include tanks, artillery, 
 and all the other goodies which were in Call of Duty: United Offensive. Similarily, they should 
 be coming out with a add-on to patch those holes for us. One main thing which I noticed about this 
 game is that it feels more natural when you play. It doesn't seem all simulated, which is excellent. 
 The weapon choices are very nice in the multiplayer, they added some new ones in, which offer more 
 chaos in battle.
  The maps are phenominal, they are not so big as they are detailed. They look gorgeous, and are 
 very tough to play in. The graphics of the game, are extremely well done, and all of the explosions, 
 rain and everything looks fantastic.
  The game is worth $59.99, plus tax it cost me $68.00. However, these are Canadian taxes, so the 
 U. S. gamers shouldn't worry. Well, all in all, I really enjoy this new Call of Duty, and if you 
 were a Call of Duty fan you will definitely like this game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hoppyfrog
Rating: 9.4
Date: Oct 28, 2005 11:10 am PT
Review:  "The Good"
  Perfect sound, Awsome Graphics, 
  Huge life due to online gameplay.
  
  "The Bad"
  Cant not turn off effects (Bullit holes and shells) older computers will lag,
  And 
 you cant turn off the commys (noone likes em')
  
  "The ulgy"
  Yo momma
  me
  Jacko
  
  I cant recomend this game enugh if you want an online FPS 
  the only reson not to buy this 
 game is if your Computer can not handle it
  nows a good time for a new Gfx card if you havent gotten one latley.
  
  if you like driving 
 Tanks cars planes whatever then you wont like this game but if you want a Footman FPS game this 
 is the game for you.
  
  oh yea and i am sorry i called yo momma ulgy
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: yuanyg
Rating: 9.6
Date: Oct 28, 2005 9:48 am PT
Review:  Definitely a must-have game. I cannot enumerate all the things I love in this game, but the the 
 re-built wonderful maps, the more comfortable guns, and the smoking battle field touch are among 
 the most impressive factors. BTW, it is the multi-player part that impress me most, the single-player 
 missions are good but kind of short. (I finished the Soviet missions and one half of the British 
 missions in around 4 hours at regular level) .
  
  only pity thing is the graphic engine. Not that it does not have good graphics, but with a relatively 
 high requirement to the hardware. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jamesvecina
Rating: 9.3
Date: Oct 28, 2005 8:53 am PT
Review:  All i now bout dis new game is dat it is hard.. one's u get so far enemies wil just kill u wenever 
 u don't know wer dey are... Call of Duty 2 have plenty of changes... da graphics are improved... also 
 da sound efects r also superb as well... da important thing is wen u look around... u can realize 
 dat it is almost like real-life people... also da planes dat are crushing dey are really awesome!!!
 
  
  Dis game is totally unbelievable... know why??? U can spend most of ur time playing it... because 
 dis game is reall hard dat u keep playing until u finish a mission... but... i told u but... wen u 
 are really enjoying dis game, u can find out dat it is getting more easier once u are used to playing 
 it... also wen u know wer da enemy is always hiding...???!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ronin310
Rating: 9.6
Date: Oct 28, 2005 5:14 am PT
Review:    
  ,  
   
   , 
   
    
     
   , 
  
   
     
   , 
 Medal of Honor) -  . 
   
  -   
    
 Infinity Ward -  
 Call of Duty 2 - ,  , 
   , 
   
     
   : 
     
 ?.."
  
  Don't panic!
    : 
   
  ,    
   
    
 .   
    
  Call of Duty.   
   
 (     ) , 
    
    
   
 - , 
    
    
  , 
    
   ,  
  ) . 
   
    
   
 -   , 
  : 
   
     
     
 .
  
     
     
 ,    
 . , 
     
    
   , 
   
 ...   
 (Vince Zampella) ,  
 ,    
  ,   
 Call of Duty 2    
    
   
 -   
   
 .  , 
   , 
   
 :  
   
    
    
 .   
     
  , 
       
 ,  
   
  . 
     
 , ,  
 .
  
     
     
   
  (Vassily Ivanovich Koslov) ,  
  ,  
    
   
    
     
   .
  
  All violators will be shot
   Infinity Ward , 
    
   CoD 
   
   
   
 (   
    
 ) .   
  
 ,  
   , 
   
   
 ,  
    , 
  , 
   
   ,  
  ,  
  , 
    
     
   . 
     
   - 
    
    
 .  , 
    
     
   .
  
  survivors will be shot again!
  , 
   
  2015 -   
 Infinity Ward   
     
 , -  
   
 ,   
   
   
   
     
 .  
    
   
   
    
    
  (  
   
  , 
 , , 
   
 ,  
   
   ) .
 
  
     
  ,  
   Infinity 
 Ward, -  Quake 3  
    
    
  2005 . 
   Doom 3 Engine,  
    
     
 Enemy Territory: Quake Wars.   
   
    
   
    
 ,   
   
   
   
  . 
   , 
   
  ,  
   
     
  Xbox 360.
  
   , Call of Duty 2 
   
 ,  
    
 .  
   , 
    
   , 
   
 -   
 Call of Duty    
  
  , -   
    
 .   
    
   
    
    
    
     
    
    
 ?) .  
    
    
   
 .
  
     
     
   
  .   
    
    
   
    
  -  
   
  
 II"   
 
  
  * * *
   ,  
 ,  :  
   15  , 
   
    
   ... 
  ,  
  , 
 bigger, longer &... maybe better?  .
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: daviest
Rating: 9.3
Date: Oct 28, 2005 4:58 am PT
Review:  If your looking for a mind-blowing, fun and action packed experience. If your not then "Get out 
 of town" Call of duty 2, there sequel to Call of Duty puts you into the shoes of a Russian, British 
 and American soldier, fighting your way through varouis countries in Europe and beyond. The graphics 
 are shiny to say the least, and the particle effects, especially the smoke and debris, are mind 
 blowingly beautiful. Animation of your soldiers are superb, and the A. I has also been vastly improved, 
 now your men and the enemies use Flank and Monoever tatics, like real soldiers!!! Dont worry though, 
 this isnt a linear experience, like Brothers In Arms Earned In Blood. One can take many different 
 routes through a level, and certain key objectives must be completed to end the level. 
  Each gun has its own unique feel and 'weight' to it. You really no its there, and grenades and 
 smoke grenades play a big part in the game. You'l also learn a bit of German, which is a neccesity, 
 as you can hear the Germans orders, for eg "Flankan" means Flank.
  Multiplayer is much the same, no need to change a winning formula. And this is wear I personally 
 spend most of my time, dont get me wrong the Singleplayer is amazing, but nothing beat wagin war 
 against other people.
  The highlight of the game is "Point Du Hoc" which is like the Omaha assaalt level in Medal of Honor, 
 but Call of Duty 2's is 10x better. It has you blowing up artillery, fighting amongst trenches 
 and absailing up cliffs. I wont give away to much, but trust me, you'll be missing out on months 
 of fun (the game is alot longer and bigger the COD) so you really should make this purchase.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: lilan
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 28, 2005 4:45 am PT
Review:  Looks fantasic the best I have seen in a WWII game. 
  the smoke is kick ass the AI is well rounded I love them. there not stupid when they see u or a 
 grenade u throw they dont just look at it. 
  textures and model's all look wonderfull. this is a game that I will buy. Gun shots and blast. 
 window breaking it all sounds real. smoke from the ground. bullet's ricochet off walls Fantasic. 
 
  
  
  1 Graphics: Great graphics, the graphics in Call of Duty 2 is above average. Weapon textures are 
 very good, Model Textures are decent, and world detail is phenomenal. Watching the AA being fired 
 into the air with explosions will light up the sky like fireworks. Burning buildings, with Dead 
 Germans all around will surely lower your frame Rates
  
  2 AI: artificial intelligence is very good. Enemies use tactics to kill you. They duck, strafe, 
 flank, and rush. It's a lot of fun. Try throwing a Grenade at them, they will scatter
  
  Button line. Get it when u can.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Flav333
Rating: 9.7
Date: Oct 28, 2005 2:47 am PT
Review:  Call of Duty 2 is the best war game I evar play. The Sound and the Graphics are so cool. Wat I like 
 the moust abaut this game is that yu can chose yor way for example yu can go wit the Rusian strategi 
 American or Brithis.
  If yu finis tha game yu can go bak from the begining and chose a noder way fru the game.
  I like 
 tu play Wit the Americans and the Rusian's.
  This game has mor Text dan yu can emagin, at evri singal person ther ar etlist a 100 Text's or 
 more.
  I thak this game tu sirias, Well I enjoi playng Call OF Duty 2 I hope yu tow. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MSE369
Rating: 9.6
Date: Oct 28, 2005 1:06 am PT
Review:  woow a really really good game..1 of the best that is available... and it also stays true too thee 
 original true call of duty while stil delivering lots of new amazing features.. its a really impressive 
 game and me being a battlefield fan... not everythin impresses mee but this game has really out 
 done it..... this game really does outdo what many where expecting too see, and its also outdoes 
 the first installment which was a pretty amazing game!... too see game like this in action is an 
 amazing thing because since i started following its production reports and started hearing all 
 its reports i knew it would be a great game.. its 1of the years best games! its truly 1 of the BEST 
 WW2 games of all time.. if not the best!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: razorsedge678
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 2, 2007 9:57 am PT
Review:  I dont understand all this crap about "it bogged down on heavier parts" junk. So far it hasnt even 
 had a split second hitch. Im running it with a nividia geforce 6800 pci-e, 3.4 ghz, 1 gig of ram. 
 Ive read reviews from people that had a nvidia geforce 7800 and said they had problems, that doesnt 
 make sense. Anyhow this game is excellent, my only real problem with the game is that it doesn't 
 have any real physics engine. This isn't so bad but it presents a problem when a fallen enemy clips 
 through the surroundings, as rag doll physics would prevent this. A game with such good graphics 
 and at this day and age should have some sort of a physics engine. Now for the good. The graphics 
 are really quite beautiful. The sound is marvelous. The gameplay is intense, and has many exciting 
 sequences. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RedSoxRebel
Rating: 9.6
Date: Feb 11, 2006 9:37 pm PT
Review:  Your know it our favorite WWII FPS is back and I have to say it is better then ever. It looks great 
 but coming of the more recent games which have the great graphics were you need a great card which 
 is more money then I am worth this game is for the people in between. The gameplay is amazing and 
 I have to say they have made alot of changes for the good now I haven't been able to play alot 
 of multiplayer but I've heard with all the new maps and the remolded old favorites (like Dawnvile) . 
 Also the weapons are sweet and when the Germans see you coming the'll be running in fear. As most 
 have you have seen one of the american missions and have played one of the British missions there 
 isn't much to telll you because you probly alrdy know. There Are many great improvments that werent 
 seen suchs as when you have a sniper you can concentrate your scope which is real handy when there 
 is only a window and the German is out of and easy shots range. 
  
  Let me just say this, for all CoD lovers its what you expected. 
  
  and I dont know what that 
 mate was saying that gave it a 5.0 well IF YOU ACTURALLY BOUGHT THE GAME give it to a real GAMER. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jpeg00
Rating: 9.3
Date: Oct 27, 2005 6:35 pm PT
Review:  I believe the game truly has a great advances from the older version. I've been playing COD since 
 its inception and I believe they've made strides in the graphics and sound areas. There's elements 
 like weather rain and snow. 
  
  Internet play is pretty good, but you truly need to be sure your ping is under 100 or you'll never 
 get a shot off. With the older version you could get away with it, but with smoke, nades and weather 
 elements anything lower than 100 is the best way to go. The maps are have familiar names, but in 
 some instances there smaller and have new hidding places. 
  
  With other games of this genre it will all depend on our COD developers of maps and mods to see 
 exactly where this game goes with the COD fans. You guys out there are doing a fantastic job. 
 
  
  What I'm using to play the game: AMD 3500+, ATI XL 800, 1.5 Gigs 400 MHZ PC 3200, with 5.1 sound 
 blaster audiology. Runs smooth at the highest settings 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ytdhjnfgbvfjvgd
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 27, 2005 4:23 pm PT
Review:  On the oringinal Call of Duty, the game was a great tern base action game with clear graphics and 
 exellent gameplay. Today, Call of Duty 2 is a great follow up and got much better. If you haven't 
 heard of this tern base action game I'll tell you. It's a battle of the Russian, Chinese, British, 
 and English verses the German. However though, it's a bit different than the oringinal. One of 
 the ways that it's different is that there is no health bar! To know if your in danger or not I'll 
 tell you. When you get hit partial of the screen on your PC will be red. When you get hit many 
 times when partial of the screen is red, you'll die like in Halo 2. To learn more read the Call 
 of Duty 2 full text revew.
  
  Gamespot Member,
  
  Game Expert Extreme 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chuckm869
Rating: 8.7
Date: Oct 27, 2005 3:55 pm PT
Review:  I just got the game today. I am a big fan of the graphics but it ways heavy on my mach. i have 
 a 2.6 Ghz with a FX 5500 3D Card. I had to use the MACHINE OPTION SETUP for performance. I just 
 don't get why i can't set everything to maximum. I have the machine for it but it slowed everything 
 down. Overall good game. I just hope the missions i see are not the amount that i see under the 
 mission selection. It looks kind of short. I am in the British mode now and am having fun with 
 it. Thought the price was a little steep since i think United Offensive Artillary looked much better 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: codefalcon
Rating: 9.6
Date: Oct 27, 2005 3:32 pm PT
Review:  CoD has been my PC game of choice for years. As CoD2's release neared, I was excited but at the 
 same time skeptical that they may try to "fix what wasn't broken" and corrupt the immersive gameplay 
 (which gives CoD it's edge among all other WW2-era shooters) by trying to add too many new features 
 or gameplay dynamics. CoD2 is absolutely everything I ever wanted in a WW2 shooter experience, 
 but I never knew it until I played it. I never realized how much I appreciate amazingly high-quality 
 models and texture effects. I never realized how much ambient chatter and yelling amongst the shredding 
 sounds of bullets flying overhead added to the experience, and how how fluid body motion and kinetic 
 reactions to gunfire make you really feel every squeeze of the trigger. Part of me is sad to say 
 that CoD1 has been unseated from it's throne, but I'm equally as excited that it was done so buy 
 it's predecessor from the same developers. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: seifer99
Rating: 9.9
Date: Oct 27, 2005 3:21 pm PT
Review:  I played the demo over... and over... and over... and over... and over... and over... and over... and 
 over... and over... and over... and over... and still it never got boring. I still play it after having 
 the demo for around 3 weeks or so. Graphics are amazing, A. I. is very good. I really enjoyed the 
 demo. I will be buying it for the Xbox 360 seeing as my computer sucks but still great game. You 
 should buy it whether for the Xbox 360 or computer because it is an awsome game. It is a must buy 
 game. Just wish they had another demo though... Oh well... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Vito25
Rating: 8.7
Date: Oct 27, 2005 3:04 pm PT
Review:  Beautiful graphics when nothing is going on and your standing still. But start moving and shooting 
 and it's gonna slow down on ya. So, unless you have 2 Nvidia 7800's working together with a Duel 
 CPU 64 bit motherboard with 1 gig of super RAM don't play this maxed out. So all I had to do is 
 turn down the graphics and it worked ok, still slow at times but it's manageable. 
  I'm a sucker for graphics and I hate playing games when I know it could look better than my settings. 
 Oh well, besides the tech stuff I loved this game. I feel it is more of the same but the same is 
 fine by me, I loved the old Call of Duty and this game add's to it. Solid addition to my PC game 
 arsenal. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AlastairCross
Rating: 9.7
Date: Oct 27, 2005 2:56 pm PT
Review:  Wow! just finished playing the demo and everything everyone said is right! It didnt struggle on 
 my machine (Athlon 64 3500, ATI X850, 512 RAM) but it was only a short mission so its not really 
 a decent test. 
  
  The depth of the game is immense. Turn up the speakers and turn the lights out and you'll foget 
 everything else around you. The gameplay is smooth and seamless, and the visuals are lovely. Few 
 things i noted, as someone else mentioned, there are no rag doll physics, and while the deaths 
 still look good, its still a bit stiff. Also, corpses seem invisible when dead, ie. bullets will 
 pass straight through them. Bullet holes in the walls are not that convincing, but they do churn 
 out a satisfying amount of debris when shot, almost too much compared to the bullet hole you see 
 afterwards!
  
  The model detail is great too, your fellow soldiers are all individually done, and shout commands 
 at eachother by name. And yes the game really feels like you are a small part of a much bigger 
 war with planes all over the place, and when there is a lull in the fighting around you, you can 
 still hear the crack of rifles in the distance and the rumbling and pounding of artillery fire.
 
  
  As a fan of the last game, i opted to try playing it on hard, a good decision it turns out if you 
 have any idea what you are doing.
  
  So all in all, if you like the original, or are looking for a realistic WWII shooter, this is the 
 one to get.
  
  All of the above based on the demo! (but i have high hopes)
  :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HeadHunter86
Rating: 5
Date: Oct 27, 2005 2:29 pm PT
Review:  Single-Player:- "They (activision and infiniti ward) very well may have created what may be the 
 best single player on the market. There are no games in my mind that come close to the SP experince 
 achieved in COD 2. Words do no justice to what has been achieved in the SP aspect of COD 2."
  
  Multiplayer:- "In regards to the multiplayer I have one but simple statement. 'In the quest 
 of creating a god-like single player, they (activision and infiniti ward) inadvertently improved 
 the multiplayer'. It disgusts me to no end how much effort was put into the single-player, and 
 how very diminutive the effort put into the multiplayer."
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: MagnusGman
Rating: 9.3
Date: Oct 27, 2005 8:19 am PT
Review:  This is a fantastic game. The russian side is really fun. I haven't really gotten that far in the 
 russian campaign, but so far so good. I can't wait to get to the American and British campaigns. 
 This game isn't as great as F. E. A. R, but this is a great WWll game. I know the franchise has been 
 exhausted, but this is worth revisiting the franchise for. Call of Duty 2 cast you in the roll 
 of the Russian, British, and American allies, as they fight the Germans across many different fronts. 
 CoD 2 is worth revisiting the banks of Europe and Africa for. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Zadiek
Rating: 9.4
Date: Oct 26, 2005 10:53 pm PT
Review:  This is the sequel to my favorite game ever, Call of Duty. I must say this game has totally lived 
 up to my expectations as a hardcore COD fan. The multiplayer is basiclly the same as the first, 
 but with a new capture the flag mode. This is NOT a bad thing though! Lots of the old maps make 
 there way back into COD 2. These maps are totally re-done with new layouts, so they seem new and 
 not overplayed. The graphics are very nice, but even with my good rig, it can chug often. So if 
 you want to play with all the eye candy on you are going to need a top of the line computer. There 
 is a dx7 option though which can be used for older computers. The sound, as always is fantastic... but 
 that is to be expected with the standard that IW has created. There is also the addition of some 
 new weapons, which are more than welcome. They now has semi-auto rifles for all sides, and shotguns. 
 There is also the grease gun for the Americans! Gameplay is fantastic, though I wish they would 
 of kept the old health system. The new one just seems to be out of place for a WW2 shooter. This 
 will soon enough be fixed though, as someone is sure to make a mod for this in multiplayer. In 
 conclusion, if you were a fan of the first game, you MUST get this! Just make sure to have a good 
 rig! Hope this helps people who are considering to purchase this! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gambit-strife
Rating: 9.8
Date: Oct 26, 2005 9:45 pm PT
Review:  The sound definatley gets a 10/10 they went all the way to have the highest quality sound and it 
 really immerses u into the whole ww2 experience
  
  gameplay-10/10 
  Its so addictive and fun, i cant stop playing it.... multiplayer really adds onto the fun
  
 
  Graphics- still a 10/10 
  even though its not as great as other games in the graphics department... its helps us kids with 
 the bad graphics card still play a great game
  
  Buy it for sure........10/10 
  
  ahh still a bit costy- 9/10
  
  [S*A] Bs. Strife 
::::::

::::::
UserName: davidharres
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 26, 2005 9:17 pm PT
Review:  This is a great game hands down great graphics and sounds. Environment is excellent but when playing 
 mulitplayer everything seems slow. Not the action but just your persepection while playing. I have 
 a X850 Pro so I got the card for the job but all and all this is a good game with good features 
 such as Server support. And its an ideal game for people who can't afford a 2000 dollar comp. More 
 and more WWII games are coming out that are half a** but this one is a keeper. Single player is 
 still the same they are they and you shot. Like every shooter you get action and this one is no 
 exception. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hurberator
Rating: 9.4
Date: Oct 26, 2005 5:39 pm PT
Review:  I do not know why Bob Colayco under rated this game so much, I even ranted about it on the forums, 
 but I am to give you my 2 cents on what rating this game should have gotten. These are what the 
 numbers should be for COD, CODUO, and COD2 because everything was under rated by this site. It 
 fixed all the problems of the original, it has and improved everything of the original, it's only 
 problem is performance which is very minor, and it does not need to, should not have to, and can 
 not revolutionaize gaming because the original already did, gaming has not evolved enough in two 
 years, and it is a sequal. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NiNtEnDo4eVa
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 12, 2007 10:01 am PT
Review:  Call of duty fans rejoice! The game we've all been waiting for is finally here. Single-player is 
 more intense than ever before... Red Square? Forgetta bout it! Games like brothers in arms make 
 combat a hassle, with cod you feel like you're part of a giant battle every time, and none of those 
 extra buttons bogging you down. The single-player is almost flawless and the multipalyer is better 
 than ever before.
  
  This is quite simply one of the best games ever released.
  
  
  1. Sound 10/10
  Whether you have sorround sound or a pair of 15 dollar headsets, the sound will 
 blow you away. Call of Duty Fans remember the sound in epic battles... bullets whizzing past your 
 head, explosions as soldiers scream while their flying up into the air. COD2 has intensified this 
 sound into the highest quality i can imagine. The sound really immerses you into the battle.
  
  2. Graphics 9/10
  The graphics were a little less than i expected, but still reasonably good. 
 It's not as good as fear but for people complaining about that you have to realize that in FEAR 
 you run around in small metal corriders and what not while in cod you have a giant playground with 
 hundreds of npcs around at one time. The graphics are exceptionally good, but do not make the game.
 
  
  3. Gameplay 9/10
  They changed some things here. First of all the crosshair has been taken away from smgs when not 
 standing/crouching/proning. Which is a good thing for people who complain about smg whores in multiplayer. 
 For people new to COD, you couldn't sprint in cod, and you still cant sprint in cod2. What's keeping 
 my score from a 10 though is the fact that theres no health bar in single player. The outer rim 
 of your screen gets red, your heart starts beating, and you breathe hard if you get shot alot. 
 At this point you have to find cover and let yourself recover. There is no indication of how your 
 health is or anything... which i think is dumb... but it seems to be floating some people's boats 
 as you don't need to hunt for medpacks. Also there are no ragdolls, which for me is a good thing. 
 Instead you get a bunch of different death animations which i think is better than ragdolls.
  
  4. Value 10/10
  Everyone that has played COD knows that the heart of it lies in multiplayer. 
 The great multiplayer of the original has been improved. There are (i think) 13 maps...3 of them 
 are remakes (carentan, brecourt, forgot 3rd) . With some new game mods the multiplayer will surely 
 amuse most players for years to come.
  
  Multiplayer:
  Thank goodness we get a health bar here... theres a new mode called headquarters (which i thought 
 was old but w/e) which requires you to defend certain points on the map (like battlefield) . Multiplayer 
 is still very intense, and with some of the new maps its hard to hide out since there are alot 
 of open places. Old and new fans will not be dissapointed.
  
  
  So basically-buyu this game (: 
::::::

::::::
UserName: XSAVAGE
Rating: 9.7
Date: Oct 26, 2005 2:00 pm PT
Review:  
  I just played this game and i have to say that is awesome , most realistic war game that i have 
 ever played , the new no health addition makes it really interesting and very HALO 2 style , what 
 i really like is the enviroment very big , very realistic and the smoke , the best i have seen 
 in games , mulitplayer is good , just stopped playing it to write here , cant get enought of it 
 , clans are on the way.
  
  Sounds very nicely done , Graphics are very good , but really not many people have money to build 
 a Monster Computer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DouglasBuffone
Rating: 8.3
Date: Oct 26, 2005 3:00 pm PT
Review:  Call of Duty 2 puts you in the shoes of Russian, English, and American soldiers during World War 
 II. Your task is simple, stop the amazing force that is the German war machine. 
  
  Gameplay:
  The gameplay in this game is much better than in the previous installment. This game 
 adds a strategic aspect to the run and gun core by the addition of smoke grenades. These grenades 
 allow you to move with your fellow soldiers while not being shot by snipers or machine gun nests. 
 The AI in this game is also amazing because the enemy will hide and throw grenades to try and get 
 you to retreat. One point that is really memorable about the gameplay is the climbing up the cliffs 
 of Point du Hoc on DDay. I have never seen this in a game and it was a beautiful addition. However, 
 the game experience is hindered a bit by the terrible framerate that will disrupt some of the most 
 heated battles. 
  
  Graphics:
  The graphics in this game are also very good. The player models and the environment look very realistic, 
 and it serves for a much better experience than in the first Call of Duty. However, the graphics 
 hinder the framerate, and if you don't have a top of the line computer you will not be able to 
 enjoy the game's graphics as much. 
  
  Sound:
  The sound in this game is epic, just like you would expect from a World War II shooter. The score 
 is one of my favorites and really adds to the whole feeling that you are really in the game. The 
 sound effects or the guns shooting are some of the most realistic I have ever heard, and the sound 
 of enemies and fellow soldiers is very good aswell. 
  
  Value:
  This game has some replay value, but not much. The online component of the game is pretty good, 
 but not nearly as good as Day of Defeat Source. The game is a lot of fun to play through once, 
 but not much to play again. 
  
  Pros:
  Great World War II FPS
  Good Graphics
  Amazing Sound effects and score
  Point Du Hoc and Tanks in North Africa are memorable
  Great 
 Artificial Intelligence
  
  Cons:
  Abysmal Framerate at times hurt the experience
  Need a very good computer to take full advantage of graphics
  Not much replay value
  Online 
 play is not up to par
  
  Overall I would recomend this game because I love these kinds of games and it has some really memorable 
 moments. But you might consider skipping this one if your computer cannot handle it
  
  -DouglasBuffone 
::::::

::::::
UserName: campbellsville
Rating: 9.1
Date: Oct 26, 2005 6:22 am PT
Review:  I could not get my hands out of the remote. My neck was hurting for looking up at the monitor but 
 I was being shot at it, had to shoot back. Simply amazing gameplay. I usually get dizzy with first 
 shoot games and can never play them. This one was the first one I did not. I have been waiting 
 for games to be fun again. This one is for sure. Nowadays they look good but don't have the same 
 fun/gameplay of old school games.
  Graphics for sure could be better, It still looks awesome, but could improve, gameplay and sound 
 are just awesome, can't wait to play with surround sound.
  All I know is every day before work I will stop to play a little before I get one at launch. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ssj70
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 26, 2005 5:44 am PT
Review:  The first thet I play call of duty was amazing this game make a real battlefields thet make me 
 think thet I stand there and kill natzis this was the greates game thet I play at all times.
  2 years left and here comes call of duty 2. He comes with improvmets like the sound and the graphics 
 what make the game better then the last game.
  in this game we play again like the last game the amaricans, british and the russians in 27 missions 
 thet make this long then the last game.
  I play this game all day I dont remember one time thet I go to drink.
  anyway this game is realy 
 worth the money and I recommend to buy this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BlindEar
Rating: 9.6
Date: Oct 26, 2005 5:41 am PT
Review:  Call Of Duty 2 is a brilliant expansion of the first game. Quality graphics, sound and game-play. 
 A standout production, in an overloaded genre. Havent played online yet, bt if its just a tiny 
 bit better than the last game then it will be amazing! The sound is the main difference that I 
 have noticed, so realistic. Sound is one of those feature that you don't always notice directly, 
 but can make the difference between a good game and a stand-out quality one. The A. I is also very 
 good. I know its hard to believe, but the Germans are actually clever. Aggressive when in numbers, 
 but defensive when outnumbered and pinned down. Call Of Duty 2, If you haven't got it, buy now!!!!!!!!!!!! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RFNeo
Rating: 8.3
Date: Oct 26, 2005 5:55 am PT
Review:  Gameplay: As with the first installment of Call of Duty, this game offers great action and amazing 
 atmosphere. Its one of the few games where you really feel inside a big war. The artificial intelligence 
 is pretty good too and will keep you pinned down if you dont move fast to your objectives. The 
 objectives are also varied and unlike other FPS, you will have more things to do than just going 
 from point A to point B and kill something there.
  
  Graphics: Graphics are excellent but not the best you can find nowadays. The environment is the 
 strongest point of the game, but unless you have a system with 2x 7800GTXs on SLI and an FX-55 
 to back it up, you will not enjoy the game at its full potential (thank god I got that system) .
 
  
  Sound: The sound effects are great in this game and play a big part on the whole game experience. 
 They really make you feel you are inside of the action and make your heart pumping.
  
  Value: The single campaign is of a decent size and will give you many hours of fun. Once you finish 
 it you can play the multiplayer that will have a big community base from Call Of Duty fans. This 
 will keep you coming back to the game and play it for many hours.
  
  Tilt: Well, the only complaint I do have about the game is: Did we really need yet another WWII 
 FPS? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jellix
Rating: 9.3
Date: Oct 26, 2005 4:14 am PT
Review:  Call of Duty 2
  
  -Fans will love game-
  
  -Gameplay : The gameplay isn't changed a bit. But it doesn't matter because it's the best gameplay 
 ever made for a W. W.2 game. And it's not easy to change an excelent gameplay. Difficulty is not 
 hard enough.
  Also a nice add on is that if you play a map two times it will feel different because you can use 
 different paths.
  
  Score : 9/10
  
  -Graphics : The graphics are good but not as good as the graphics of 
  Call of Duty (in 2003) , 
 but the advantage of this graphics are that even my 5 year old computer can play Call of Duty 2. 
 But at high quality it's not the best graphics of this time (compared to F. E. A. R.) .
  
  Score : 8/10
  
  -Sound : The sound is again amasing. Very realistic sound and very much sounds 
 at same moment make you feel you're really at war.
  P. S. : This also influence the gameplay.
  
  Score : 9/10 
  
  -Value : I just can't stop 
 playing the game. Even the A. I. is not as hard as the one of F. E. A. R.. The war feeling is unique 
 and addictive.
  
  Score : 10/10
  
  -Reviewer's Tilt : As a fan i just can't give less then 10.
  
  Score : 10/10
  
  -The verdict 
 : A very good sequel on the best W. W.2 shooter ever made.
  + : Nice gameplay with a few new add-ons, addictive
  -: Easy A. I.
  
  End Score : 9.3/10
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gizmo_kicks_ass
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 2, 2005 3:52 pm PT
Review:  i know i've already posted one review but who's gonna complain? anyway i have bought the game last 
 saturday blowing off my allownce but it's worth it of course i'm a big fan of call of duty and 
 UO and i was addicted to the game as if the game was some kind of a drug. There are many people 
 who thinks the CoD 2 is not much of a worth of playing and does not measure up to its value and 
 they're wrong-o! I know people complain about few things like Haloish kind of health (if you don't 
 know it it's like the character regenerates health if it is left alone long enough) and no sprints 
 and no 2 main weapons however the compensation with graphic and sound and game play is just amazing. 
 one time in game in american mission where a GI shoots a panzershreck into a door and a german 
 comes out with flames on his body! that was just so amazing that i was speechless. I have beaten 
 through the russian and british campaign just in around 5 to 7 hours or so in easy mode so i expect 
 if you play in regular or hard you'll spend around 13 to 16 hours of play to beat the whole thing 
 and the game itself draws you in for replay and in different levels every time will be played in 
 different aspect as you play the whole thing again. In conclusion the game is done with the maximum 
 amount of effort the Activision and Infinity wards and i thank them for such a wonderful game they've 
 brought to us and sometimes i wonder if i had not purchased CoD1 for my b-day, would i have been 
 more of a studious person? :) Anywho i strongly recommand this game over any FPS game and i would 
 play this until CoD 3 comes out 
::::::

::::::
UserName: arfats
Rating: 9.7
Date: Nov 7, 2005 6:38 am PT
Review:  if you really a big fan of war games then try call of duty including all of its parts its really 
 superb the things that i like most is its graphics, sounds, and dialouges. Call of duty is the most 
 intense world war game that i ever played. play COD and enjoy all its features. the animation is 
 also good and the characters that they made is also good i am waiting for all its other parts including 
 PS2, Xbox and PC. In my opinion i will give ten stars out of ten star. In the beginging of the game 
 that "in the war no one fight alone
  this sentense really impressd me 
::::::

::::::
UserName: seanconnery31
Rating: 9.1
Date: Oct 25, 2005 9:02 pm PT
Review:  Call of Duty at times can be extremely tense and horrific. Watching bodies flung in mid-air by 
 the infantry's bazookas , or the terror of running through a thick cloud created by a smoke grenade, 
 while the voices of Natzis swift by your ears, unknowing where exactly they are. These are probably 
 the best aspects of the game , since they create the most realistic environment any gamer will 
 live through. Yes thats right , ANY GAMER. 
  Call of Duty is a game that can't exactly be explained , without playing it. It's that good. The 
 action here , literally made me sweat bullets on a low-forecast day with no heat , and no sunshine 
 at all. In fact , later that day it rained. It's exciting to see your squad find cover, aim, and 
 fire for the first time, or driving a tank while 32 german soldiers swiftly move towards your area. 
 The game is full of so many great moments , it's just fantastic. With great and detailed animations 
 and weapons , you will feel like you are in middle of a fire-fight. Speaking of warfightm, COD:2 
 has enormous maps. The structure of each map is rich and full of color, which really adds to the 
 games pluses. When you finish the campaign mode, you can move onto the multiplayer mode. It's great, 
 though not exactly ground breaking such as battlefield 2 or Counter-strike source. But when you 
 think of it , does this type of game need a "good" multi-player mode? It's more of a half-life 
 2 
  type game. It concentrates on the singe-player , giving you a more memorable experience to live 
 through , unlike many online video games. 
  Still, this all comes with a cost. For one thing, you need a really good computer, not only for 
 the video, but for the sound as well. Surround sound makes the game much more realistic by a long 
 margin , and the help of a good ATI Radeon will help as well. But, With the cost of these steep 
 requirements, Call of Duty 2 will probably the most realistic game you will ever play. PERIOD. 
 The snow, gun shots, re-loading animations, blood , its all breathtaking. Yes guys, this game is 
 definitely worth the wait. 
  
  -sean
  
  
  
  Positives : Probably the best looking , and sounding game on the market today, creating an incredibly 
 rich and detailed environment.
  
  Negatives : Steep pc requirements . Good, but not great multiplayer.
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: xp0svolc0mx
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 25, 2005 5:04 pm PT
Review:  This review is based on the Demo (sorry) . But i can say that even from playing the demo I can get 
 a feeling of how the actual game is going to be like. 
  
  Pros: The intensity and realism of the fight is just unbeatable comparing to any other game. Graphics 
 are top notch with a few minor let downs. Sound is great, actual makes you feel as if u were in 
 the middle of a epic battle. The A. I is much smarter; they will use a ton of grenades to bug you. 
 The feel for the weapons are realistic, so u cant just blind fire and kill all the germans in the 
 room. Iron sight is much more important for getting that kill shoot. Keeps the great formula of 
 the original call of duty, and makes it better in some areas.
  
  Cons: A minor prob, no rag-doll. It would make the game more realistic. The germans have the same 
 death animation as the last COD. The Health system can be unrealistic at times ( I suggest you play 
 at hard or veteran if you've played COD 1) . Some germans will not run from grenades, when killed, 
 they tend to clip with an object near them. No cook time for the grenades. 
  
  Again, these are minor cons that will not affect the game greatly. This game will top its predecessor, 
 COD % COD-UO. 
  
  Helpful tips: Play around with the graphic controls for the game so you get both a smooth and nice 
 looking game play. People who have played COD before should play on hard or veteran to make the 
 game more exhilirating. Also, if you like WW2 games, then this is a must buy! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rain07ke
Rating: 9.3
Date: Oct 25, 2005 4:21 pm PT
Review:  this game is an instant muxst buy!!! if u love WWII action fil with soldier drama, than u must 
 get this game. the levels are simply amazing, even with a low graphic card like FX5200. the graphic 
 is highly detailed and much beauty with a much powerful card. the sound is just incredible, war-filled, 
 cries that make you felt that you are experiencing what the soldiers face. AI is an superb improvement 
 from the original and the action just gets even hotter, even at the beginning. this reviewer is 
 definitely telling you to go spent that $50 or $60, NOW!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: freebirdcjb
Rating: 9.6
Date: Nov 13, 2005 1:47 pm PT
Review:  Talk about a rush. Call of Duty 2 is just that. The action can really get you feeling frantic, 
 especially when charging into enemy positions through the smoke. The firefights can be a challenge 
 at times and the AI is really something else in this game, I sometimes get 2 or 3 grenades thrown 
 at me at once. This game is the kind of challenge I have been waiting for for so long. Not only 
 does it have the action that I look for in a game, it also has the eye candy. If you have a high 
 end machine then you can fully appreciate how realistic this game can really look. While the framrates 
 do lag at times through the large battlescenes and at times when you are charging through smoke, 
 the game pretty much runs silkysmoothe for me. This game has much replayability. Where COD2 really 
 shines is with its sounds, if you have 3D sound and speeakers placed all around, it really puts 
 you there you hear gunfire and explosions behind you as well as the occasional German sneaking 
 up on you and really makes the experience much more immersive. With the 4 difficulty levels there 
 is something for everyone. I personally would have liked something like a 5th difficulty after 
 beating the game on veteran, though I'm sure it would still be challengeing to play through again 
 and again. 
  Now onto multiplayer, what can I say, it is some very fast paced action with a couple of extra 
 weapons thrown in that are not in the singleplayer mode. I especially like the maps in multiplayer, 
 you can truly set up ambushes in the urban maps with all of the desroyed buildings giving you many 
 places to hide. It also makes the play more realistic with how urban warfare works, its not an 
 open infantry charge, you will have to get in close to your opponenets in the MP portion of the 
 game and it really makes for an adrenaline rush. All in all, this is one game you must pick up 
 if your a fan of the series, genre, or just a fan of shooters in general. Its not groundbreaking 
 but it does offer an entirely new experience 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Random1992
Rating: 9.3
Date: Nov 27, 2005 4:22 pm PT
Review:  I only review my favorite games, or my worst favorite games. So most of my reviews are 8.5-9.6 
 and 1-4. But my average rating for most is 6 to 7. Why? Becuase most games don't satisfy me too 
 much.
  
  Let's start with gameplay;
  Simply fantastic. It's war, greatly put for a T rated game. War, voilence, non stop action. Explosions, 
 bullets flying past you, THE BEST war feel EVER in a video game so far. **Added Nov 1 2005** I 
 just beat the game and it feels like you're there but at the end of a mission the 'Success' war 
 music plays in the background it feels like you're in a movie.
  
  Graphics:
  Okay listen here. My computer is mediocre, going down in the ratings. I have an ATI Radeon 9250 
 256mb graphics card (I only have PCI) . 1gb RAM (which was good, now it's average) . And A pentium 
 4 2.4ghz processor. How good do I run this game? Perfect. 1024 x 768 resolution, and the highest 
 possibly quality settings. 40 fps. Plus these graphics are AMAZING. Did you every look at the smoke? 
 The explosions? Everything else?**Added Nov 1 2005** They look just like Half-Life 2 I noticed 
 after going through the game.
  
  Sound: Gunfure, noise, loudness, explosions, sounds like you're in a war movie, no, better yet, 
 sounds like you're in a large gunfight in Iraq.
  
  Value: Worth 60 bucks... No.... Worth 100 bucks... No... Worth 200 bucks..... worth 1000.... I'll pay 
 so damn much for this game, I won't say 1000... but if it was 200... I'd buy it. Plus, I haven't 
 beaten it, but the replay value in my opinion in fantastic.**Added Nov 1 2005** After beating the 
 game I must say the replay value isn't all too good. It's best when you play through it for the 
 first time. But I wouldn't pay 200, maybe 100. Also the game is a tad on the short side.
  
  Tilt: Have I stated my point? This game is fantastic, amazing, unbelievable, super califrag ilistic 
 expialodocious, whatever you can think of thats expressive how positively good this game is.
  
  To wrap it up... Perfect. Grab yourself a copy, and dig in. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Peanut51594
Rating: 9.7
Date: Oct 25, 2005 12:34 pm PT
Review:  Despite having to wait one more day to get my copy, due to shipping and what not I will go out 
 on the limb and give a brief review for anyone out there that hasn't played the demo or the original 
 COD and is considering COD2 as a next pick up at your local EB.
  
  After extensive play and studying of the demo I would say this game has it all. Infinity Ward spent 
 their time and spent it well, putting together a great set of engines to run this game. The AI 
 is a big step up from what we have seen in the past. Although still not brightest they are extremely 
 smart, making gameplay a little more realistic and a lot more fun. The graphics are for sure a 
 step up and look flat out amazing. 
  
  On a side note though I have yet to play the full release, so I am not 100% sure, but I will go 
 ahead and say it anyway. This game in no way seems to be any sort of a resource hog. Which is a 
 major plus in my book. Even though I have more then enough power to run such games, it is good 
 to see steps forward in graphics and in AI with out having to take major leaps in hardware or sacrificing 
 more resources for hungry software.
  
  In closing, if your thinking about getting it, do so. If you haven't thought about it, start thinking. 
 This game is going to change the WW2 FPS scene for the better and if you don't jump the band wagon 
 you may miss the ride.
  
  Awesome job Infinity & company. I look forward to the flying bullets! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: i_ownyou
Rating: 2.5
Date: Oct 25, 2005 12:28 pm PT
Review:  I bought the game hoping it would be a great game with excellent replay value. I was very surprized 
 while playing it. Single player is alright, but im a big multiplayer guy and obviously they did 
 not focus on multiplayer. The game get's very boring very fast. Battlefield 2 is a lot better then 
 this game in just about all aspects. I suggest that if you were to get a war game go with battlefield 
 2. I've also purchased fear. It's amazing how some games can be very popular and suck (like cod2) 
 and some games can have a very small community and be extremly good. I hope the people that buy 
 games look at reviews before they buy it. FEAR got amazing reviews, go out and buy the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: darkad1
Rating: 9.6
Date: Oct 25, 2005 10:52 am PT
Review:  Please note that this is based on the demo.
  When I first installed the demo, I had my doubts, i wasn't sure if this would live up to the Call 
 of Duty name. For me, the first game had it all. It was revolutionary, it was a clear step forward 
 for FPS gaming and a leap forward for WWII games. 
  
  So when it comes to call of duty 2, IW have a hell of alot to live up to. Do they? In a word - 
 yes. Half Life 2 took the FPS shooter so far forward that other developers were left sobbing into 
 their pot noodle. Call of Duty 2 is the FPS of 2005 (so far) . FEAR is left behind as COD2 takes 
 the lead. In terms of War games, Conflict global storm, BIA: EIB are left miles behind as COD2 leads 
 the charge. (note - this is for ALL war games, not just WWII)
  
  But why? Because it takes the next step, it improves on the best parts of COD and introduces new 
 and more exiting features. The intensity of street battles in Call of Duty is given a new lease 
 in life. The bombs exploding in your face, the heated charges, all more intense, raw and most importantly, 
 more exiting and fun. 
  As for new features, the new health regen. system works very well. It makes all the crappy going 
 back through levels no more. Also, the whole run through and shoot down jerries thing, no worries, 
 i'll walk over a green box and all will be well system is gone. 2/3 shots and you have to get back 
 to cover. 
  
  The graphics have been revamped from the Quake III engine that CoD was using. Now smoke lingers 
 for longer and can be used as cover.
  
  Grenades are also a much bigger part of COD2, as the Reich AI has been improved. They now want 
 to live rather that eat your lead. Even your comrades now acctually fight rather that leave you 
 on a one man killing spree. They help you fend off jerries. One example bieng - I saw the red marks 
 on my screen, turn around to see a Jerry just about to hit me dead with the butt end of his MP40, 
 just then, Private Miller shoots the bugger in the head, saving my life. This left me breathless. 
 But don't worry, they leave just enough action for you aswell. Shouting orders, taunting the dead 
 german and asking for cover are all commonplace. A real step up form CoD. 
  
  CONCLUSION.
  CoD2 is a bigger, meaner and more exiting version of the original. Play it, enjoy 
 it, savour it, war games may never get this good again. Never has a demo left me as shellshocked 
 as I was after this outing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spazania
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 25, 2005 10:46 am PT
Review:  Ok.... any fan of the CoD series would think that this game is good..... VERY TRUE!!! It is good... the 
 AI, Sound, Graphics everything!!!! Must buy for all types of gamers! the only thing i didnt like 
 is that you can get shot 200 times in a mission without dying... but you can still die if you get 
 shot a lot of times in a short period of time. Holds up its self with dignity, if anyone wants 
 to know how the gameplay is the name of the game says it all. Graphics and sound have been improved 
 a lot from its brothers/sisters but the feel of CoD still lies on Earth. Great game.
  
  Go Buy it! I command you! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: marolia
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jul 8, 2007 7:02 am PT
Review:  yea but the sad part is that it got less points. but still i will get the game and it looks awesome 
 when i played the demo. now i only hope how the mutiplayer will be. yes the gameplay is really good, the 
 graphics is also good but it doen blow doom 3 or half life 2 graphics but still its really a good 
 the graphics of cod 2 the sound is awesome and many more r good in that. Now we just have to wait 
 till xbox 360 comes out and how it will be over there but it will be really good too! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LPU385
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 25, 2005 8:26 am PT
Review:  Wow Guys if u think medal honor is good lol you guys must be such losers lol call of duty is awsome 
 united awsome even better.... but Call of duty 2 is just gonna Blow all Medal and half call of duty 
 old versions out of the way the graphics sound affects combat and the suspense of people screaming 
 for victory is great. how you cover yourself from death and helping eachother and charging together 
 as one is just great better then any other game ever made..... how everyone screams for victory 
 and running into battle, the smoke grenades, the blow out how you see your teammates go down. planes 
 flying tanks riding thru the desert, boats shooting arterials dropping while your in the middle 
 amazing..... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tigerace77
Rating: 9.8
Date: Oct 25, 2005 7:17 am PT
Review:  After close playing and time after time of playing single player i have come to this. THIS GAME 
 IS FREAKIN SWEEET! From the single missions to the online part. Love it. The germans say alot more 
 and i speak german so i can understand all of it too. Its not just los los los! anymore. and the 
 body work with all the characters are awesome as well. It just looks great!
  
  The mulitplayer is pure ownage! Single player is just jaw droping good. I cant find more than 1 
 flaws and those are stupid flaws themselfs.
  
  The flaw that i found is the russians speak ENGLISH! But that was it. And who cares about that 
 anyways? right?
  
  The game just is freaking awesome i love it and once im doing writing this review im going back 
 to play it some more. hehe. 
  
  If anyone liked the first COD and/or WW2 shooters its a must and if you dont then WHAT THE HELL 
 IS WRONG WITH YOU!, go get this game and play it. You will be hooked like all the rest. 
  
  Absolutly Break taking. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GodMode
Rating: 9.7
Date: Oct 31, 2005 8:14 pm PT
Review:  Well, now im reviewing on the full game. There was only downside i could find about this game.... no 
 sprinting. i dont care if the new health system isnt "realistic" did Activision say that it was 
 supposed to be super realistic? NO! Was the last health system realistic? NO! so all of the whiners 
 that say the health system isnt "realistic" are flawed reviews because the health system wasnt 
 realistic to begin with. Now, onto the graphical part of this game.... one word BEAUTIFUL! The 
 gameply is also pretty good, a few slowdowns but thats it. The sound like i said before, it draws 
 you in, like bait to a fish. This game is bound to keep you entertained for at least 5 months. Overall 
 this is the best WWII expierience out there so pick it up soldier! 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
