-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Call of Duty: World at War
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/action/callofduty5/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Gritty, exciting story.
 Same excellent multiplayer system.
 Four-player cooperative campaign.
 Bayonets and flamethrowers.
 Nazi Zombies.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Familiar setting.
 Familiar game mechanics.
 Familiar guns.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Nov 12, 2008
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8.5
Critic Score: 8.4, 24 Review (s)
User Score: 8.4, 3,516 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Activision Blizzard
Developer: Treyarch
Genre: Historic First-Person...
Date:     Nov 10, 2008 &raquo;  
ESRB: Mature

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
World at War brings proven Call of Duty mechanics back to WWII with great success. 

  Call of Duty: World at War is a lot like its predecessor, Call of Duty 4: Modern Warfare. In most 
 respects, this is a good thing. The guns are tightly tuned, the tone is gritty and mature, and 
 the action is exciting and fast-paced. It boasts the same addictive multiplayer system as Modern 
 Warfare, and even expands the multiplayer possibilities by allowing four players to play through 
 the campaign cooperatively. Like every game in the series before Modern Warfare, this Call of Duty 
 takes place during World War II. World at War does an admirable job of spicing things up, but between 
 the well-worn source material and dj vu game mechanics, there is a pervasive familiarity to the 
 game. Still, though World at War lacks the freshness that made Modern Warfare such a hit, it nevertheless 
 provides a hearty, filling meal -- one that shooter fans are sure to savor.  

           The action is as explosive as ever.      

  The most salient difference between World 
 at War and Modern Warfare is the WWII setting. In the campaign, you split time between two soldiers 
 in two offensive theaters: the Russian push out of their homeland and into the heart of Germany, 
 and the American struggle to wrest Pacific islands from the Japanese. Though you'll alternate between 
 them every few levels, the campaign feels like one solid progression, thanks to the adept pacing. 

  Each soldier's journey begins at a low point. Weaponless and surrounded by the enemy, you get a 
 taste of the despair many soldiers are never rescued from. Though the emotional tone eventually 
 rises toward triumph, you never quite forget the fate you nearly met. The first few levels are 
 a hard scrabble as you and your fellow soldiers try to gain a foothold for your country, while 
 later levels are suffused with a sense of hard-won momentum as you fight bigger battles and push 
 closer to your enemies' capitals. Throughout each level you are accompanied by a superior officer 
 who sets the emotional tone through well-acted dialogue. The vengeful, spitfire Russian pumps up 
 your adrenaline to intoxicating levels, while the grim, determined American provides a sobering 
 influence. This grim sobriety is further enforced by the actual WWII videos, photos, and statistics 
 presented in stylish interchapter cutscenes. The message is, by nature, a conflicted one: Though 
 you may feel like an action hero, you are actually participating in the most horrid of human endeavors. 
 How you ultimately feel about this message will depend on your personal disposition, but suffice 
 to say that the elevated emotional timbre makes for an exciting campaign.  

  Also exciting? Bayonets and flamethrowers, the two standout new weapons in World at War. You wield 
 both in the American campaign, using them to enthusiastically dispatch enemies in trenches and 
 fend off the aggressive banzai raiders. These raiders snipe from the treetops, or pop out of holes 
 and charge you with merciless determination; this aggression makes the American campaign feel uniquely 
 tense. The Russian campaign is slightly more predictable, but it remains vigorous throughout and 
 ends in a spectacularly satisfying way. Explosions and gunfire will cause enemies to lose limbs 
 and copious amounts of blood, making World at War a sight more violent than Modern Warfare. Still, 
 in between the burning, stabbing, and gibbing, there is a lot of crouching behind cover and picking 
 off enemies with your trusty rifle. This kind of action, and most of the other weapons, will feel 
 familiar to anyone who has played a World War II shooter before. It's a well-tuned and exciting 
 familiarity, but it doesn't make any notable leaps.  

  World at War does make a leap for the Call of Duty series by offering two-player split-screen and 
 four-player online cooperative campaign play. It's the same campaign as the single-player experience, 
 though the number of enemies increases for every player that joins you. You can turn competitive 
 scoring on and see who can earn the most points by killing enemies or reviving teammates, and this 
 adds a bit of fun to the campaign and lightens to mood (it's hard to feel grim when there are point 
 values popping up all the time) . There are also special items called death cards in each level, 
 and collecting these will allow you to enable a cheat for cooperative play (for instance, enemies 
 die by headshots only or headshots cause enemies to explode) . These add a little more spice to 
 the pot, but the only tangible incentives are challenges. Completing these tasks (such as kill 
 100 enemies with pistols or take first 20 times in competitive co-op) will earn you experience 
 points that go toward your multiplayer rank (co-op is not similarly ranked) . Cooperative play is 
 fun in its own right, but linking it to the addictive multiplayer ranking system makes it relevant 
 in a whole different way.  

           Multiplayer battles are as fast and deadly as ever.      

  In case you missed it last 
 year, the multiplayer system introduced in Call of Duty 4: Modern Warfare is fantastic, and World 
 at War has updated it to fit its WWII setting. The hook is experience points, which you gain by 
 winning matches or completing one of the aforementioned challenges. As you earn these points, you'll 
 rank up and earn access to new weapons, new accessories (like sights and suppressors) , and new 
 perks. Perks are special abilities that grant you a wide variety of bonuses, but you can only choose 
 four (one of which is vehicle-specific) . This introduces an engaging element of customization: 
 Will you choose to toughen up by increasing your health and bullet damage, or will you go the stealth 
 route and increase your sprint speed while becoming invisible to enemy recon planes? Perks are 
 well balanced, and you have multiple save slots, which enable you to easily switch between your 
 various pretweaked loadouts. This allows you to take full advantage of this deep, engaging system 
 that is just as great this year as it was last year, albeit slightly less novel.  

  There are, of course, new maps, and the bonuses you earn for kill streaks have been updated (notably, 
 the attack helicopter you earned after seven kills in Modern Warfare is now a pack of nasty attack 
 dogs) . There are also a few maps that support tanks, powerful additions that mix things up without 
 being too dominant. Most of the modes remain the same, though some have received slight tweaks 
 and Capture the Flag has returned after a hiatus from Modern Warfare. The most striking new mode 
 is actually a cooperative game called Nazi Zombies, playable when you beat the campaign (or play 
 with someone who has) . This absurd game puts up to four players in a house that is being assaulted 
 by the undead. Killing the fiends and repairing the barricades earns you points that you then spend 
 to replenish ammunition, buy new guns, and unlock new areas of the house. Each subsequent wave 
 brings tougher, faster, more numerous enemies, and the game inevitably ends in grisly death. Though 
 the random weapon box, assorted power-ups, and skills of your teammates add some variation, each 
 play-through is similar to the last. Still, it makes for some intense, frantic fun and provides 
 a welcome, if slightly bizarre, change of pace.  

  By staying largely true to the formula that made Call of Duty 4: Modern Warfare so successful, 
 Call of Duty: World at War has ensured a proven level of technical quality, particularly in the 
 multiplayer arena. On the other hand, one of Modern Warfare's strengths was its fresh approach, 
 and by embracing a familiar setting and familiar mechanics, World at War achieves greatness but 
 falls short of excellence. This is only a bad thing if you are expecting this game to top its benchmark 
 predecessor. If, however, you are hoping for an exciting campaign, fun cooperative play, and engaging 
 multiplayer action, then you'll find a lot to be happy about in World at War.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (227 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Yotamho
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 15, 2009 3:27 pm PT
Review:  Well, it was hard for me to buy this game. everyone told me that this game is a new kind of crap 
 - old n' disgusting weapons, very bad multiplayer and that this title is a pretty bad fake of the 
 last (successful) title.
  with a faith in my heart and money in my hands, I went to Gamestop and bravely bought this game.
 
  I enjoyed every minute of even hanging the empty box above my head, when the CD is in my computer.
 
  Firstly the single-player is so awesome, the gameplay is absolutely not exhaust itself, you cant 
 find even 2 similar situations in this game, what means that you enjoy many many experiences, which 
 make you an knowledgeable, and ready for most of the situations in the multi-player after completing 
 this game.
  The story-line is A-M-A-Z-I-N-G, it is so exiting that I'd almost shed a tear in the end of this 
 game, it pushes you into the WWII mood, with all the sad, amazing and all the cruel things that 
 happened there. it also teaches you some of the most important happenings across the universe and 
 the ages.
  the sound in this game is maybe not "the best quality", but the right accent and the great background 
 music of fear, sorrow and hopelessness which was the symbols of this time, make you feel right 
 like a man that just rescued from the captivity, and fighting with the squad that rescued him, 
 or like a russian soldier that fighting with his partner that barely survived (unlike his squad) .
 
  The graphics in the game is maybe unlike Crysis, but they are good and definitely enough for a 
 guy w/out console and 7600GT GCard.
  The last aspect that I want to talk about is the multi-player, the multi-player in this game is 
 extraordinary probably because that there isn't any limitation of things that you can learn to 
 become an expert on the multi-player, there are dozens of weapons and perks which make your game 
 varied and finally the amazing maps which are complicated-to-be-learned, what means you can play 
 more and more to become more expert on each map (what looks good for me) .
  I hoped that my review helped you, if you want to co-op on PC, just leave me a message/ 
::::::

::::::
UserName: slickr
Rating: 7.5
Date: Apr 12, 2009 6:32 am PT
Review:  Call of Duty World at War is the latest installment in the Call of Duty series.
  Treyarch brings the latest Call of Duty to its roots the WW2 era with missions in Japan, SSSR and 
 Germany.
  The new addition is the co-op mode for the single player campaign, somewhat improved graphics and 
 for the first time it introduces missions in Japan.
  
  The campaign starts in Japan, there are short movies while the missions are loading and those explain 
 the situation you are going to be in and objective, as well as bring some short clips from with 
 real WW2 footage.
  
  The missions design is amazing, the missions are varied, interesting and fun and the objectives 
 are what you'd expect and follow realistically what was going on in WW2.
  
  The graphics are quite a bit improved over modern warfare, the explosions look amazing, the effects 
 are mind blowing and overall presentation is first class, just what you'd expect from the Call 
 of Duty series.
  
  For example when buildings explode they blow out in small pieces and there is almost nothing left, 
 if the buildings are made from wood, the wood actually catches fire and the graphics are made so 
 that it really represents a burned out wood, ashes fly around, dark smoke blows constantly and 
 it really represents the setting realistically.
  
  In some missions you really get the feel as you are part of this huge war and you are just one 
 small soldier contributing to the overall war, but in some missions its totally the opposite effect. 
 Since Call of Duty series are so heavily scripted, you are required to move forward while taking 
 out enemies in order to progress, otherwise you would just continue fighting for hours and here 
 is the problem. In some missions you are solely required to move forward, reach a point or finish 
 an objective that it really feels like you are playing a generic shoot'em up shooter. It does not 
 help that the AI is totally broken and does not provide cover-fire, it needs a lot of time to start 
 moving and covering positions and it a lot of cases does not even shoot enemies that are standing 
 just 1 meter apart from it.
  A lot of times your allies would just stand in a point shooting down far away enemies that they 
 completely ignore enemies standing just 1 meter apart from them.
  A lot of times they don't provide cover for you, stand in your way and move you out of cover if 
 you are standing in a position they are scripted to get cover in.
  
  The enemy AI is also very frustrating because they throw perfectly placed grenades every time and 
 coupled with your allies AI blocking your path of movement you are bound to get killed from a grenade 
 a lot of times.
  
  Without the patches installed there are even some problems with allied AI moving in the right direction 
 and helping you out at all, there are also some animation missing. Of course the patches fix a 
 lot of stuff, but even with the latest patch the AI is still pretty much broken.
  
  The sound effects and what little there is acting and narrating is very good, weapons and explosions 
 have realistic sounds, tanks, boats and airplanes also have pretty realistic sound to them and 
 the voice acting and narrations is good.
  
  There is also one more problem with World at War and that is the tank controls, for example the 
 whole tanks turns when you move your mouse, instead of just the turret and thats very frustrating, 
 since you can't position the tank say sideways and just move the turret to position to fire, instead 
 you must fire positioned forward all the time.
  
  As I've said previously the missions are varied, you will drive a tank, fire from an airplane turrets 
 destroying boats, ships and enemy fighter airplanes, you even get to rescue soldiers in the same 
 missions, you will play as a sniper in one of the mission, where you must continuously escape enemies, 
 get to a safe spot and then snipe them, you would fight in a huge wide-open assault in the German 
 capital, fight in a metro and so on. Whats even greater is that the settings from one mission to 
 another are so different, so Japan is basically jungle terrain, Germany is urban terrain, then 
 you fight in some open fields and so on...
  
  Overall if it wasn't for the extremely stupid AI this game would have been superb and possibly 
 even be better than Modern Warfare, as it is though its a good game but falls short from previous 
 Call of Duty series.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: VENOM192
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 11, 2009 2:28 am PT
Review:  Call of Duty: World at War is probably one of the best World War Two games I've played, with the 
 excellent graphics, good gameplay and the same excellent multiplayer that we first saw in Call 
 of Duty 4: Modern Warfare. And you can also complete the game with 4 friends or you can go and 
 kill some Nazi Zombies once you completed the game. The story is well duh, World War Two with the 
 same familiar setting, same gun's like the MP44, Springfield, M1 Carbine but there is something 
 new: Flamethrower's, and they're damn fun to use and unlimited ammo makes it even better. There 
 is also a lot of gore and foul language in this one, but some people simply love it and some don't 
 so Treyarch put a filter into the game which removes it all. There are also new additions to the 
 multiplayer like new perks, dogs, you can make friends and invite them to games and you can also 
 drive tanks. And if you complete the game, you can go in search of death card's which you can use 
 in Co-op like paintball, fire incendiary bullet's when downed and tons more! The campaign is a 
 little bit too short but the multiplayer makes up for it, and if you liked Call of Duty 4: Modern 
 Warfare then give this a try. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: awwitz
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 4, 2009 3:35 am PT
Review:  Call of Duty World at War shows us yet again the unrelenting prowess of Activision and Infinity 
 Ward. But is the rewind to World War II times really essential for the evolution of the popular 
 series?
  (STORY)
  The story gets players once more into the harsh 40's period. It's (again) World War II and we can't 
 get enough of it. Well, the best thing about the game's story is the significant display of drama 
 and superb action. I haven't seen so much almost-tear-jerking moments in an FPS. The whole game 
 is also a very well-rehearsed set of events that shows really good in-depth cinematography and 
 camera angling. What you see is what you really get in this game; the story only shows the script 
 and all that when you look at all the things happening here. Sure, there are times when the camera 
 gets blurred sometimes, or when Miller (players control him) gets trapped in a very hazy situation 
 and can't see sh! t, but that's the drama! Anyway, play as a Russian conscript or a U. S. Marine 
 in this epic tale of bravery and camaraderie.
  (GRAPHICS)
  The visuals are oh, so good! The graphics are beefy and there's the addition of castration and 
 bodily mutilation from the start to the finish. Oh, please observe every muscle and bone protruding 
 from the ripped limbs of Japanese banzai troops, the Germans and your soldier friends as they get 
 hit by grenades or naval strike! It's a bloody COD and it's soo good!
  (SOUND)
  World War II with the most amazing sounds of  
 I get a really good and triumphant laugh every time I hear those sounds. A word of caution, though: 
 you can get a despicable blood lust from this and may want to kill somebody; it's that gorgeous! 
 Orchestrations are also amazing, and so is the cast of voice actors led by the mighty Keifer Sutherland 
 and Gary Oldman.
  (GAMEPLAY)
  The game is really a World War II version of '07's blockbuster Modern Warfare, except there's the 
 gore and the Japanese and the ambushes and the enhanced visuals. But it's pure fun and it's worth 
 the price. Single player lasts for about 5 hours on normal difficulty but there are other challenges 
 that'll beef up the single player mode, plus the challenges and the co-op. Multiplayer's nice, 
 with new maps and tweaked game modes, and it's all worth it because everyone loves the COD online 
 matches! Oh, and there's the Nazi Zombies part; it's so cool!
  (OVERALL)
  They made World at War to prepare players for what's about to come in the next Modern Warfare. 
 This is the appetizer for the main course is yet to come! But its a really, really good appetizer 
 and I'm here for seconds! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CrysisFPS
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 12, 2009 6:00 pm PT
Review:  Call of Duty 5 proves to me why I like Treyarch more than Infinity Ward (I know a lot of you will 
 disagree) ; because they really think about good gameplay and an emotional storyline in a video 
 game. People say CoD4 had all that, but to me Treyarch has expanded far beyond that. I do think 
 this game is pretty underappreciated, especially the PC version due to bugs, but if you have a 
 good computer like me, you should not have a problem. So what else are people complaining about? 
 My review here will justify all that.
  
  I know that there are a lot of WW2 games out there already, so people want a different war. However, 
 if you have a problem with the setting, then don't post such negative comments (like millions have) 
 and spoil the game for those who still love WW2. I am one of those people which enjoy WW2 games, 
 and I am glad that I ignored a lot of stupid negative reviews otherwise I would not know what I 
 was missing.
  
  To call this game a remake of CoD4 MW is almost like saying that Gears of War and Gears of War 
 2 are almost exactly the same. It would be a crime. CoD4 copied a lot from CoD3. Why can't so many 
 people see that? I reckon Infinity Ward were blushing when they saw Call of Duty 3's brilliant 
 gameplay and changed to Modern Warfare in order to disquise the similarities. And this game has 
 more improvements over MW than you might think. I like how Treyarch focused on improving the mainly 
 the gameplay in this game instead of graphics but the graphics do look slightly better. It is true 
 that the online was exactly the same, but what Treyarch focused on was the singleplayer.
  
  There are several formulas that you would recognise from CoD4, like the difficulty settings and 
 the ability to do things like mantling over objects. Nevertheless, the game has been modified with 
 everything that MW should have included with slightly more. The visual effects have improved like 
 the screen going blurry from a grenade. There is a lot of bayonet combat and if a banzai attacker 
 has you on the ground, your character will perform a "similar" form of defensive action as with 
 the dogs in CoD4. You will be given the option to sometimes use flack guns or pick a mortar bomb 
 from an ammunition box and that sort of thing. If you hold an MG, your character can set it up 
 on a sandbag or object and fire at oncoming enemies. Also, in the second mission, if you go into 
 deep water, you will find that you have the ability to swim.
  
  I know I am going very deeply here, therefore boring you with this comment, but these are big improvements 
 with other things as well that people really need to realise. Most of it is from Call of Duty 3 
 or 2: Big red One, but the facts that these games were also developed by Treyarch make it an exception. 
 There are a few gameplay elements in CoD4 used here like pressing the action button to perform 
 some sort of action at some point. This time, you actually see your characters hands while executing 
 the action so it feels more realistic. Calling rocket strikes is in this game, similar to helicopter 
 strikes in CoD4, but this time, your character holds a radio to his ear when you do it. The physics 
 have been a great improvement due to the flamethrower and molotov cocktail introduction. Trees 
 can be burned up and the environment is much more destructable. The environment is more realistic 
 in this game because in CoD4, all of nature was as still and lifeless as stone. Here, you see wind 
 blowing branches, leaves and grass so it makes you feel more in the real world.
  
  Yes, the gameplay is much more improved than many say. I already knew after seeing a few youtube 
 videos that it is misjudged, but when I played, I really felt that critics just tried to make false 
 excuses like comparing with CoD4. The story is good with better characters and much more emotion 
 than in the game's predecessor. The storyline is linear, but the levels have several open-ended 
 objectives that you could complete in several ways and paths to choose, therefore offering large 
 replay value. this is another improvement over CoD4.
  
  I like the soundtrack for this game more than Modern Warfare's (Even though not many share the 
 same opinion) because it accurately depicts the darkness and intensity of war, while hearing some 
 powerful music as well. As you can see, there are many things that have improved over Modern Warfare 
 which is why I would highly recomend this to you even if you own Modern Warfare. As one (smart) 
 critic said on the game box; "A must-own for fans of the series!" 
::::::

::::::
UserName: akinburak
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 28, 2009 2:03 pm PT
Review:  I must say the game needs a high configuration. You need atleast 2.5 ghz processer and at least 
 2 gb Ram and also high class graphic card to play the game in min. requirements.
  
  I had some difficulties to play the game in my home PC. But I tried it in a upper level PC at my 
 friends house and loved it. It has built the wer environment as usual.
  
  You should play this!
  
  I must say the game needs a high configuration. You need atleast 2.5 
 ghz processer and at least 2 gb Ram and also high class graphic card to play the game in min. requirements.
 
  
  I had some difficulties to play the game in my home PC. But I tried it in a upper level PC at my 
 friends house and loved it. It has built the wer environment as usual.
  
  You should play this!
  
  I must say the game needs a high configuration. You need atleast 2.5 
 ghz processer and at least 2 gb Ram and also high class graphic card to play the game in min. requirements.
 
  
  I had some difficulties to play the game in my home PC. But I tried it in a upper level PC at my 
 friends house and loved it. It has built the wer environment as usual.
  
  You should play this!
  
  I must say the game needs a high configuration. You need atleast 2.5 
 ghz processer and at least 2 gb Ram and also high class graphic card to play the game in min. requirements.
 
  
  I had some difficulties to play the game in my home PC. But I tried it in a upper level PC at my 
 friends house and loved it. It has built the wer environment as usual.
  
  You should play this! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: monk117
Rating: 2
Date: Mar 27, 2009 3:10 pm PT
Review:  I'm going to give them a 2 for effort. Other than that, this game is awful. Basic graphics, poor 
 physics engine, full of glitches, extremely linear and in general just very dull. Shooter of the 
 year? I don't think so. All you do is kill constant re-spawning enemies for about 8 hours, and 
 play along the most linear maps known to man, only to reach the end and experience the most anti-climaxing 
 ending to a game ever. May i add the game is extremely easy, and it doesn't take much to complete 
 the entire game without dying once. Treyarch clearly didn't try very hard, using the same engine 
 Infinity Ward used for Call of Duty 4. Also, several missions and scenes that occur in this game, 
 are clearly rip offs of things that happened in Call of Duty 4 (Assassination level being the most 
 obvious one) . Over all, waste of money if you know what a good game is, do not listen to the hype, 
 this is one of the most over rated shooters ever. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ned_Flandish
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 27, 2009 8:48 am PT
Review:  Ah, the Call of Duty Series. Since the release of the original Call of Duty on the PC, the series 
 has been heralded as one of the best WWII game series out there. Call of Duty 2 rose the bar and 
 was one of the most popular multiplayer games around in it's prime. Call of Duty 3 was considered 
 a step back in the series, and never was released on the PC. Then, the series changed dramatically 
 when Call of Duty 4 hit the scene, changing the time period while maintaining the incredible gameplay 
 that made the first few games in the series a hit.
  Shortly after the release of Call of Duty 4, we began to hear about Call of Duty: World at War. 
 It was going to be using the Call of Duty 4 engine and it would be developed by Treyarch. This 
 was not good news for many Call of Duty fans. Many COD veterans lost hope in Treyarch after Call 
 of Duty 3, and many players vowed to not switch over to World at War after it was released.
  The game has been out for around six months at the time of this review, and in that time many of 
 the problems that people had with World at War were fixed to some degree, while some still run 
 rampant.
  I'm going to start this review out by talking about the single-player. To sum it up in one word, 
 superb. World at War's single-player is an incredible cinematic experience. In this regard, it 
 beats Call of Duty 4's single-player. The single-player itself isn't particularly long, but every 
 moment of it is action packed and there is rarely a moment of boredom. This is what we've come 
 to expect from the Call of Duty series and Treyarch has delivered in this regard.
  On the other hand, the multi-player component of World at War does not receive such high praise 
 from me. It's not bad, but it's basically a carbon copy of COD4's multi-player. Nothing was wrong 
 with COD4's multi-player, but if you have already played hours and hours of COD4, gotten to level 
 55 and possibly gotten prestige several times if you're on a console, then World at War isn't going 
 to offer you many new experiences. The biggest addition to multi-player is definitely the vehicles. 
 This was one element that was missing in Call of Duty 4, but was in Call of Duty 3. For better 
 or for worse, it has returned in Call of Duty: World at War. Depending on your opinions about vehicles 
 in games like this, then you will have different feelings about the vehicles. Thankfully, there 
 are many maps which don't have vehicles.
  Speaking of maps, at least to me, it feels that the maps in World at War don't have the same kind 
 of appeal that the maps in Call of Duty 4 did. Call of Duty 4 used portions of single player maps 
 as multi-player maps, and for the most part it worked pretty well. World at War does the same thing, 
 but it doesn't translate nearly as well in World at War's multi-player. If you haven't played Call 
 of Duty 4, you will probably find a lot to like in World at War's multi-player. However, if you've 
 played COD4 and you are tired of it, chances are that World at War's multi-player won't be "fresh" 
 enough for you.
  One huge addition that World at War has that COD4 doesn't in co-op mode. You can play through the 
 entire single player campaign online, in LAN, or even in Split Screen mode if you have a console. 
 The Nazi Zombies mode, which is sort of a branch of the co-op is entertaining for about 3 sessions 
 of it. Hopefully, the new maps will rejuvenate interest in Nazi Zombies as very few people are 
 playing Nazi Zombies on the PC.
  Technically, World at War is decent. It's graphics are no better or worse than COD4's. Now, that 
 being said, while the graphics might not be spectacular, they do and extremely good job of capturing 
 the atmosphere of the assorted places you travel to in the game. This, coupled with great sound 
 production values, really does add to the cinematic experience I mentioned earlier.
  Overall, Call of Duty: World at War is a pretty good fps. It may not have the longevity that Call 
 of Duty 4 has enjoyed, but if you are in to World War 2 shooters, then this is definitely one you 
 should strongly consider purchasing.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: y_roland
Rating: 3
Date: Mar 23, 2009 4:23 am PT
Review:  I played CoD: MW, and I loved it, it brought interesting novelties to the FPS genre, and had some 
 of the best MP online matches I've played so far, so when I got my hands on this one i was very 
 excited. Excitement however lasted only until I installed it.
  
  First of I couldn't even launch the game at all, whether it was SP or MP, and 3 months of online 
 support didn't change a thing.
  Couple of months later I downloaded the 1.2 patch, which allowed me to launch the game, but I had 
 no sound. Again, online support didn't help, and the solution they gave me was for Windows Vista 
 only. I eventually got it working (thanks to the help of an online forum, not online activison 
 support i might add) ; thing is before I can play the game I have to, every time, go to the configuration 
 panel, and remove all Modem entries, which does get frustrating pretty quickly.
  
  Once I started the game itself, it was nice enough, SP campaign, albeit short was interesting, 
 if sometimes squandered with occasional frustrations. But I had a strange feeling while I was playing, 
 which quickly became the uneasy impression I had already done this before. And indeed, though the 
 setting was different, it really was the same structure as Cod 4; the campaign also lacked a decent 
 length, just like Cod 4.
  
  Then I tried my hand on the internet, which was fun setting aside the issue I had with power leveling 
 servers, which allowed to almost instantly reach maximum level (where's the challenge) . But again 
 it played almost exactly the same as Cod 4, the only difference was the setting and the weapon 
 skin. I also quickly noticed two main problems with MP. First it was the loading time were ridiculously 
 long for me (and near instant on Cod 4) , sometimes reaching 5 minutes at lowest configuration settings, 
 and second that I got disconnected at the end of every MP game (I even had to leave the game and 
 start it again before I could join another game) .
  
  As far as the gameplay is concerned, it is as I said almost a WWII Cod4, only slight changes prevent 
 it's complete similarity, though those are really small, such as bayonets or flame-throwers. Nazi 
 Zombies mode is amusing, but just don't expect much from it. Co-op however really stands out, I 
 had some endless fun while playing it, a boring SP mission can become a frenzied rush to get more 
 kills than your teammates. 
  The similarity does come with drawbacks, beyond the feeling of dj vu, for instance the weapon 
 recoil is still ridiculously low, you'll run straight ahead of you, all the while shooting a Ppsh 
 with almost 100% accuracy (my grudge with this is because i'm a Red Orchestra player) .
  
  The reason why I gave this game such a low mark is that I find it inexcusable to release a game 
 that doesn't even work on most computers, and later releasing a patch that makes some computers, 
 which ran the game just fine, have problems with it (1.2 patch removed the sound on many computers, 
 as I've heard) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hassanyy
Rating: 4.5
Date: Mar 21, 2009 10:12 am PT
Review:  Terrible, instead of this game please play cod 1&2, they are better than this boring **** game, its 
 russian section is about an old man who always advice you about blood and damn things, and killing 
 German Prisoners compared to cod1's Russian part (which was the best episode in cod series) this 
 one has nothing to say 
  its american part was about marine heroes and evil Japanese who attack you stupidly with saying 
 banzai ****
  but of course if you just like graphics, play this game, but don't expect gameplay from this game, its 
 just an unsuccessful reply of the previous cod games. as a fan of cod series I expected more for 
 cod5, perhaps they need to forget World War 2 and make new cod games in new eras.
  don't bother yourself, cod5 is the worse game of the cod series.
  Its just a waste of your money 
 and time.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: truemattyz
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 18, 2009 5:48 pm PT
Review:  il be honest i was a bit sceptical about getting this game, i thoguht that it might just be like 
 a mod and it was the same game but like an expansion. 
  
  i was so wrong this is a game in its interety. and it takes it back to the core of the call of 
 duty series. and im so glad they did it 
  
  i love world war games and no one does it better than call of duty in my opinion, so i was glad 
 i got this game. it may feel a tinsy bit small but lets be honest all good games do and the call 
 of duty 4 engine really works well in this enviroment the game is ace. i highly recomend this game 
 and any in the series if you have not tried it this one is defentaly worth the purchase.. 
  
  once again the voiceovers are fantastic and the landscape and feel is brethtaking n1 activision 
 for letting the best world war game team do there work...
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ntromp
Rating: 1
Date: Mar 18, 2009 12:10 pm PT
Review:  Game is ok, too much rubble to stop one when tyring to run. Had problems without crashes through 
 all the patches up to 1.3 and not with any other games. Got Asus gear and they can't figure out 
 the problem since November 2008 (today is 17 March 2009) , refer me to treyarch who don't have customer 
 feedback/service/reply. POOOOOR! Will they be the next developers, hope not! bla. ATI 4870, 6GB 
 corsair dominator, XP, sp 2 (SP 3 Failed with COD 5) . 7 fans, 1200 W power supplies, 1.2Tb HDD 
 space. 3.16 Ghz intel core 2 duo processor. My Xonar is set to 7.1 and automatically it is set as 
 7.1 under Sound and Settings in Windows Control panel. However, when I open the game sound console 
 it shows as stereo and says you have to set it in the Sound and Settings in Windows Control panel 
 and restart the game. I've tried that several times. The only thing that helps is to uninstall 
 the Xonar and reinstall onboard or another soundcard. As said previously they (CODWAW) knows about 
 the problem too seeing that they provided a fix for Vista (set to 16 bit, 48000 Hz) , but we do 
 not have this option in XP. It is only these specific sound cards that have the problem and I can't 
 find
  a fix on the forums. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NerdusMaximus
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 17, 2009 9:45 am PT
Review:  This game is a great shooter. The campaign is just the right difficulty for me on normal, and it 
 has a great storyline that keeps me engaged. 
  
  I was very impressed by the voice-overs. For both campaigns, there is a Sargent that is your guardian 
 angel and barks out orders. It makes the game seem more intense and engaging. They did a great 
 job with finding the actors: Heck, Gary Oldman is in it! The orders almost never loop, and I find 
 none of it repetitive. That's a tough feat for a game!
  
  The multiplayer has really got me hooked. It has great design in the maps, good variance of weapons 
 and buffs, plus an achievements and customized class system that keeps you playing. If you have 
 killing sprees, you can call in recon planes (which allows a mini-map to pop up) , sick attack dogs 
 on your enemies, or call in mortar strikes. Once you rank up, you can get new weapons, customize 
 them, or get buffs and immunities (like being invisible to recon planes) . Cool features like the 
 "kill cam" are a nice touch. This adds in an interesting mix to the game. 
  
  My sole complaint was the pain it was to patch. Nothing said you had to patch in order, and you 
 had to choose between several 3rd-party sites to download. I'm an MMO player, so I may be sorta 
 spoiled when it comes to patching, however. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: with_teeth26
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 15, 2009 7:30 pm PT
Review:  I was highly skeptical when i heard Treyarch, the developers of the underwhelming console Call 
 of Duties, was making their next diabolical Multi-Platform so called "Call of Duty" for the PC. 
 I planned not to buy it when i heard of it, but after the reviews came out and the public opinion 
 was heard, i decided to give it a go. The product: A clean, polished, solid but highly unoriginal 
 shooter that was worth every bit of my money. 
  
  Treyarch tried earnestly to recreate the epic and unforgettable singleplayer campaign offered in 
 COD4, but unfortunately they failed in a few key areas. The story is very limited, once again the 
 Russian campaign opens with a blatant immitation of Enemy at the Gates, with you skulking about 
 as sniper. Treyarch certainly has a strange obsession with this mediocre and inaccurate portrayal 
 of the Battle for Stalingrad. The gameplay is fun, and some of the missions, especially those in 
 the Pacific campaign, are incredibly fun and very, very beautiful. There are times when it feels 
 like the Russian campaign was slapped on as an afterthought, because the Soviet missions just feel 
 like a lousy rehash of the Russian campaigns of the previous console games Treyarch made. 
  
  The missions that do take place in the pacific are often spectacular, and suprisingly varied; 
 you will perform night operations where you sneak about, full on invasions of Japanese controled 
 Islands, and everything in between. These missions make the single player campaign worth playing, 
 as they are simply a pleasure to take part in. 
  
  Visually, the game looks very similar to COD4, at times better, and at other times worse. The character 
 models are top notch, and the gun play very decent. Once again, the Russian missions fall behind 
 in the Visuals department, most of them are very drab and uninspiring. The sound effects are decent, 
 not mindblowing, but they get the job done. 
  
  As with Call of Duty 4, the meat of the game play lies in the Multiplayer, which is for the most 
 part excellent. It takes the superb model of COD4, and expands on it, brining new modes, more levels, 
 and tanks into the mix. Also, there is the co-op campaign mode and Nazi-Zombie mode, both of with 
 are worth your time. The online play is not without its problems though. The spawn points in the 
 competative multiplayer are often disasterous, you will find yourself spawning beside enemies, 
 on the opossite side of the map from your team far to often, spawn killing is a huge problem in 
 this game. Luckily the biggest problem present in Call of Duty 4's multiplayer, grenade spamming, 
 is not nearly as evident as it was, it still exists to some degree, but has left the absurd level 
 it was at in COD4. One feature i don't expect but would be nice would be the option to turn off 
 the number of deaths you have had, i think the fact that the game prominently displays your kill/death 
 ratio makes it more individual, if it dropped this focus and concentrated more on team play, like 
 TF2, i think the MP would be far more fufulling and entertaining. 
  
  The bottom line is that COD5 is a fun, solid, and well executed shooter that takes the tried and 
 true formula of the call of duty series and puts it to good use. The singleplayer campaign could 
 have had a better story, but seeing as how there is far more content then in COD4 in the multiplayer 
 department this can easily be overlooked. Call of Duty: World at War should be owned by any fan 
 of competative online first person shooters. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: develown
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 8, 2009 2:54 pm PT
Review:  Great game, game play is awesome, my only gripe is that the maps are designed to prevent camping. 
 While some of you hate camping, it gives me something to shoot for, running around mindlessly killing 
 people gets old, i like to try to stay alive and see how many people i can kill. if you hate camping 
 this is the game for you, but for me the lack of being able to camp gives makes this game lose 
 its addictive qualities. but other then that fact the 
  
  game play is very smooth and fun, the first time i saw my legs get blown off i loved the game. 
 
  
  Another down side of the game is the promotion system. unlike in COD 4 promotions tend to go a 
 lot faster. there are several servers in which you gain something along the lines of 7000% the 
 normal exp, so in essence in 20 minutes you can be a 4 star general. luckily they added a prestige 
 system were you can cash in your rank for a special prestige rank, this helps make it last a bit 
 longer, but in less then i day i achieved the maximum possible rank. after that all there was to 
 do was unlock all the weapon extras, after that the game had lost any addictive characteristics. 
 It is still very fun but is no longer addictive in essence.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: wiirkokonuts
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 1, 2009 5:59 am PT
Review:  Call of Duty: World at War, is leaping from modern day back to the classic World War II atmosphere. 
 The good thing is that the developers threw in enough new things to keep the game fun, and not 
 get instantly bored, because it is just like all of the other WWII games out there, and there is 
 MANY! Single player campaign was short, finished it in two days, but at least it was fun and different. 
 I have not ever played a WWII game where you fought in the Pacific and the Russian campaigns, so 
 that kept things a little different, a nice plus. I have not played co-op yet (due to no friends 
 that play COD) , but it looks like a lot of fun, if comparing to other co-op games like Halo 3, 
 which both have very similar co-op features, like completing campaign with things like bonuses, 
 etc. Now lets move to the Nazi zombies game. Very fun, but sadly I would like the mode more if, 
 again, I had any friends that play COD. And finally, what we all care for the most, the multiplayer. 
 If you enjoyed Call of Duty: Modern Warfare, it is basically the same thing, but the setting is 
 in WWII. Creating classes are still here (YAY!) , and you shall continue to spend way to much time 
 finding the best loadout to utterly obliterate the enemy :D. Perks are back, of course, not much 
 more to say than that. The kill streak bonuses are also back, but different to fit in for WWII. 
 3 kills you get air recon, 5 kills artillery strike, and 7 kills a pack of vicious dogs (don't take 
 them lightly) . There are 65 ranks in total, and you will unlock more weapons, etc. as you level 
 up. There are also challenges, from the simple M1 Garand Marksman, where you kill a set amount 
 of enemies with that gun, to the very difficult (have yet to unlock) Potato Chucker, where you have 
 to throw a frag grenade at the enemy and it has to HIT him, and kill him. Completing challenges 
 earns you experience for your rank and can unlock you attachments for you weapons, like a sniper 
 scope for the Arisaka. Once you reach the last level of ranking, you can earn prestige. In this 
 mode you start the leveling process again, straight from level one, but you can now earn five more 
 slots for creating a class and (i think this is right, i have not earned prestige yet) a new special 
 badge of your choice, but you lose all of your weapons and challenges. Graphics look very good, 
 and game plays very well, including online, on my piece of junk of a PC. I have not really found 
 any bugs while playing, so thats a plus too. If you are looking for a WWII shooter that is different 
 but still very fun, or even looking for great multiplayer, this game is a must have. If you are 
 here for a great single player campaign, ignore this one, it isn't impressive. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Brody2142
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 25, 2009 11:01 am PT
Review:  I welly recommend this game to any first person shooter it has the best weapons in any COD so far 
 it has the greatest graphics ever most realistic game !!!!! EVER!!!!! I love the game and wish I 
 had more cap to play online WARNING VERY ADDICTIVE so that is my review so far this is my first 
 review ever so don't hate me if you like it just email me at :brodyvernon@mweb. co. za that is my 
 own address or email me at gamespot my name is brody2142. but you have to have a good graphics 
 card and a lot of ram mine pc details are : 250 gig hard drive 3 gig ram 3.00 GHz intel Pentium 
 , minimum requirements of the game is:
  OS -XP or vista POSSESSOR, AMD 64 3200+ 512mb ram (xp) 1GB (vista) ,MEMORY 8GB of free memory VIDEO 
 CARD 6600 GT 1600XT so that is it . It is highly recommended by me and my experience . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Geowil
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 24, 2009 8:12 am PT
Review:  I am one of the seemingly few people that have had no issues running the game on either of my systems.
 
  
  My main theory to this is that people who are getting these are using Nforce boards (would not 
 recommend them in the first place, go with asus) .
  
  Anyway,
  
  This is not just some redone WWII game. This one takes COD where it has NEVER, yes never ever at 
 least on the non-console arse kissing games (cod1,2, UO) , been before, Japan.
  
  It brings a new level of paranoia to the game as you probably are now searching every tree you 
 stand under just to make sure there's not a bayonet flying down at you. 
  
  Overall the graphics in this game I would compare to High Mode on Crysis.
  
  The gameplay is 
 solid and they made it feel like a real COD game, tough and gritty. I am not a fan of MP for I 
 have not even tried that yet, but if you bought the game just for it you wasted your money. But 
 that raises another question, why would you expect it to be any different from COD4 mechanics wise.
 
  
  I feel that they did a bang-up job on this game and that it is under appreciated due to problems 
 with mid and low range gaming motherboards and other software/driver issues with nvidia products 
 and some AV's.
  
  Bottom line, if you like WWII games and love flame throwers and sniper rifles, then this is the 
 game for you.
  
  The only thing i didnt like about the game was there was no British storyline D: 
::::::

::::::
UserName: punabutta
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 20, 2009 12:05 am PT
Review:  When first considering purchasing this game I was hoping I would at least like the look since it 
 used the same engine as modern warfare. Well I was very happy with the look and also the stories, 
 my favorite is the sniper then the tank battle from there it drops off very little the quality 
 stays consistent to the end.
  I have a "recommended" system 3gig AMD dual, 8800gt, 3gig 800 mem, X-FI ExGamer, 32 bit Vista home 
 premium. I don't follow fps just how smooth the game runs and even on the most crowded scenes it's 
 smooth as butter. Never had a glitch, crash or anything so far, I use Smart Defrag and deep optimize 
 after every all night-er. All settings on max with 2AA.
  The stories that are told are really gritty and let parents beware make sure you check the "no 
 gore" box, it isn't just gore but the language is very realistic too. I think it adds to the authentic 
 feel of the game. Although you only get 2 view points of the war, an American and Russian I felt 
 the stories could have been about any soldier.
  You get to play with all types of weapons, you even get to carry around some usually tripod mounted 
 mg's, bazookas, molotov cocktails, flame throwing T-34 tanks. Sniper rifles play an important roll 
 in several stories, I just love sniping, you can even aim at the arms and they are shown with the 
 stump hanging there all bloody, legs too, great stuff.
  If you are a WW2 gamer or are not sick of them yet I recommend this game without reservation, there 
 are no "cons". I have all the top FPS games not going to list them but I do, and IMO this is the 
 best. It's the consistency of the quality I think that makes this game. Crysis, Half Life , Far 
 Cry and the other top games they all have some slow points this game has none.
  
  
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dark__Warrior
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 18, 2009 4:18 am PT
Review:  Alot of the features are alot more enhanced than call of duty 2, anyway, it doesn't have the same 
 fantastic features as call of duty 4.
  
  The gameplay is woderfull with all these effects and fascinating graphics but you can still feel 
 that u are playing call of duty 2 just because it is nearly the same story.
  
  There is no doubt that call pof duty 5 is far more better than cod 2 where the story plot lingers 
 around the same world war II. the firt mission is surprisingly did not make me at the edge of my 
 seat just like cod 4. the mission was very ordinary and not attractive but eventually considered 
 great. In some missins in the game u could pilot several seats on different plane guns which grabbed 
 my attention. Playing two different campaigns at the same time made me go very well with the game 
 and not stop to play it. However, the story was great with a wonderfull ending.
  
  In my opinion, the music of the game would take 6 out of 10 which is great compared with the music 
 of cod2. The campaign which involved pvt. Miller was not that good and enjoying unlike the music 
 in the russian camaign. The music in PVT. Petrenko's campaign was totally fascinating where every 
 soundtrack go on with the plot of the story.
  
  The Multiplayer was fantastic due to the effects, Grahics and words said in the game. Anyway, i 
 didn't enjoy the multiplayer of cod5 as i enjoyed it in cod 4.
  
  Above all, the game was totally fascinating with lots of advantages and adoreable features.
  
 
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Waffle-SS
Rating: 1
Date: Feb 13, 2009 9:26 pm PT
Review:  I payed fifty dollars for this game and I can not begin to describe how disappointed I am.
  
  First Reason: I have had COD4 since it came out and have played it for a very long time. I 
 couldn't wait for COD5 to come out! When I heard it was WWII again, I was very angry. WWII is so 
 played out it is ridiculous!
  
  Second Reason: Same game play of COD4! I bought the game, installed it, and jumped into some multi-player. 
 Felt like I was playing COD4! (If you have played COD4 for a long time you know what I am talking 
 about.) I was expecting a little change here and there but no. I think of the game as a complete 
 re-skin of COD4. 
  
  Third Reason: COD5 is one of the most sloppily put together game I have ever seen/played! There 
 has been only one patch to this date! (For PCs) Many glitches can be found throughout the game 
 even on consoles. Plus the game was put together in a little less then a year! Now, common sense 
 tells me it's not going to be a good game if it has not been under development for long. COD5 was 
 put together for a quick buck.
  
  (COD: Modern Warfare Two) Is Being Handled By Infinity Ward As I Am Told.
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: genaldar
Rating: 5
Date: Feb 13, 2009 12:56 am PT
Review:  This game is terrible, and since Gamespot is apparently here for 5 year olds they deleted my longer 
 review because I swore. Even though it edited out my swearing. Anybody know of a good gaming site 
 that believes in free speech?
  
  Short review so they don't delete this one too. The main problem with this game, like CoD 3 is 
 that the final level doesn't contain enough save points. There is nothing more frustrating than 
 playing through the same 5 minutes of a level 10 times just to have to do it again because there 
 isn't a save point. This is especially frustrating since I'm a PC gamer. I see no reason not to 
 use my massive amount of HDD space to save my game. I had hundreds of saves in Fallout 3. Why can't 
 I do that in this game? At the very least evenly space out your saves. Treyarch does this in all 
 of their games. Saves are nice and steady until the last level, when they have no. All this does 
 is frustrate the player. I also wasn't thrilled with the multiplayer. There is no balance. The 
 weapons are fairly realistic, so when you combine that with unrealistic damage scales for players 
 its very frustrating. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Francois1337
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 8, 2009 11:26 pm PT
Review:  What a game!!! Multiplayer is awesome.
  This is one of the best games I have played in a long time. The campaign was good but not all that 
 and a bag of a potato chips, but good none the less, not as gripping as COD 4 but fun to play. 
 
  The Multiplayer is so fun I can't believe it. Levelling, Prestige, Perks, Vehicle perks, Attack 
 dogs, Artillery, so well done. One of the only things I would have left out would be the Tanks, 
 because n00bs love the tank not that I mind, I guess the n00bs also need a way of getting frags, 
 and hide from attack dogs. 
  The feel of the guns in multiplayer is awesome everything from recoil, damage, reload time, firing 
 rate, mobility to the firing sights just made the game better than your everyday FPS.
  Graphics, well done again to the developers. The textures, models and overall feel of game play 
 environment was an instant success in my opinion.
  
  Overall great stuff
  
  Awesome HEADSHOT ACTION. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Soadforever1
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 9, 2009 4:32 am PT
Review:  Call of duty world at war has one of the best multiplayer for me at the time being. It's a game 
 i can play all day long without stopping. As all other call of duty games it's multiplayer is highly 
 addictive.
  
  But let's talk a bit about it's single player. Man you've got to be kidding me. I'm really disappointed 
 with single player. I can't believe it is so bad. But however call of duty world at war is worth 
 buying even only for the multi player part.
  
  It's game play is really good. The graphics are also not bad, but there are a lot of glitches. There 
 are also problems when playing this game with ati, especially ati 4870. Most owners of this graphics 
 card are encountering problems with water textures when playing call of duty world at war.
  
  If i have to compare it to call of duty 4 i would say call of duty 4 because this game has 
 good single player too, which call of duty world at war.
  
  Well that's all....... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: darkhopper
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 8, 2009 12:59 pm PT
Review:  I played the game through on solo playing all the campaign mission on normal collecting all the 
 death cards. I had a very enjoyable time but the game was very easy and short. 
  
  I started playing co-op on hard with alot of the death card active and this made my campaign expierence 
 very fun and i enjoyed playing with random people or friends online.
  
  I was disappointed when i got to non-campaign online... alot of the battles seem to be just  
 over and over again and with the spawns being just alittle weird (sometimes when someone spawned 
 dogs... they owned your entire tieam because they spawned in behind you on search and destory) got 
 annoying. Also with some server glitching the expierence system... alot of people were able to get 
 max lvl within the first few hours of the game coming out... which hurt balance when a group of 
 65s... went up against 12-30s where the improved weapons of the 65s made skill almost worthless. I 
 am a big fan of the cod series.. but for me the online multiplayer expierence was a miss. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Avals
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 3, 2009 9:31 pm PT
Review:  First of all CoD: WaW is a good game, with the call of duty 4 engine and massive size of battles, 
 intense fighting, grand multiplayer and use of flameflowers definitly makes it shine.
  
  It fixes some of the problem encounter by COD4 multiplayer like too small map, more ranks, class 
 creations, perks, weaponaries and prestige for lengthening the muliplayer game experiences of players.
 
  
  The use of tanks in muliplayer is real cool, however only a few maps have the uses of tanks. And 
 by the way, there was only 11-13 maps in muliplayers which is not enough.
  
  Singleplayer and co-op, well it's pretty solid, however I can't even find more than 4 servers in 
 co-op and 3 of them are pings too high, so if you want to buy this for co-op, think again.
  
  Zombie mode is real dumb, you will die anyway, no matter you die in level 1 or 10. You can't 
 escapethe small house and just wait for death. Boring isn't?
  
  AI is also a major problem in this game. Many of them can't even see when you are JUST next to 
 them. I had a time that I knifed/bayoneted 5 persons in a row before they saw and fired at me, 
 you can see what their intelligence are like.
  
  They can shoot you 300 meters away but can't even see you 1 meter near him, ridculous.
  
  There 
 are also too many grenades thrown by enemies. Know what, about 70% of my death in the game are 
 caused by enemy grenades in this game. Especially in small streets or treches or jungles where 
 you can hardly move. 
  
  Banzai charges by the japanese is really cool, however the charges are limited to several persons 
 only, which makes the charges like sucide rather than a real counter-attacks. 
  
  The rush of the nazi german makes them looks stupid. They hardly take cover and just stand there 
 waiting to get shoot or rush front/ back like the japs. 
  
  Anyway it's still a good game.
  
  Graphic:8.5/10
  Gameplay:9/10
  Presenation:8.5/10
  
 Sound:9/10
  AI:6/10
  Muliplayer:9/10
  Singleplayer:8/10
  
  Overall 8.5/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sharpdolphins
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 3, 2009 12:21 pm PT
Review:  well i finish this game now and i really enjoy this game some things are same like we see in cod 
 4. but the game is best. graphics are excellent and you play just like we watch the movie. the 
 game play is so good. and the stages are very good specially when you play the (Nazi's Zombies) 
 stage after finish the game gr8 sound effect in the game... i feel very hard when i kill the sniper 
 on the sniper stage we can see in the window.... well i hope you enjoy this game as much as we 
 can enjoy in cod 4. specially thanks to Activision... i feel 
  very scared when i play the zombies stage i only reach the 5 rounds of this mission but i try my 
 best to finish this mission too.,, i also like the new weapon flame thrower and i enjoy when i 
 kill the soldiers with this weapon.. i also like when we kill the japan stage the defend was so 
 awesome on this stage... well i have no bad words about this game i think Activision's is down 
 to earth team and made the game very carefully with some talent and skills... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ThrillDog28
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 2, 2009 6:16 am PT
Review:  Like I said, it was a great game but in my opinion it was too short. I beat the game in just a 
 couple days. However, it was awesome. From driving tanks to priming mortars on crates and heaving 
 them at the enemy and destroying structures. I only encountered one glitch on one of the levels 
 where one of the necessary characters got stuck in a fence or barbed wire or something and needed 
 him to kick open a door. I had to start the level off but it was fun anyway so who cares, right? 
 Thought it was funny that the American soldiers name was Private Miller because I am a private 
 first class in the army and my last name is Miller. Had flashbacks of basic training when the sergeant 
 in the game yells out "MILLER! Get on that weapon!" and things like that. Funny stuff. In conclusion, 
 worth buying, fun, great multi-player, just a little too short on the single player campaign. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: iisl33t
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 31, 2009 9:25 pm PT
Review:  When I first purchased CoD: WaW I was skeptical because of the way they went back to WW2. But y'know, 
 it wasn't all that bad. The first thing I noticed is they upped the violence quite a bit, with 
 arms flying and blood splattering. In fact, it's so much so, that when I returned to CoD4 really 
 quick, CoD4 suddenly seemed a lot less realistic.
  
  The gameplay itself is not bad at all. It retains a 2 front story, with half of the time playing 
 Russian soldier Demitri Petrenko and the other half as thhe USA soldier, Pvt. Miller. The overall 
 difficulty on any level is noticably higher than the previous CoD games. There are tons of weapons, 
 and it doesn't take long to remember each strength and weakness. Enemy AI is not as good as it 
 could be, as enemies rarely use good cover and often just stand out in the wide open.
  
  The graphics are fabulous, and the sounds are realistic; no complaints there.
  
  The replayability 
 isn't all of the game, mostly pick-your-favorite-mission types of play. 
  
  The multiplayer is more of the same, basically just CoD4 with a WW2 mod. A few new perks, vehicles, 
 and maps barely seperate WaW from that of it's prequel.
  
  Overall, it is worth 50 bucks, and even though it could always be better, I give it a 8.5/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hellcat-
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 30, 2009 2:43 am PT
Review:  My first impression of the game, no training level. I dont really mind as i have already played 
 all of the cod series but it would have been nice to test the new weapons.
  During the games american campaign, it felt just like MOH pacific assualt, i mean they used the 
 same island and some of the weapons were the same, but the flamethrower soon had me laughing in 
 delight.
  A good bonus is co-op campaign which also includes lan (local) which is nice, 
  The levels are not the longest, but if you take your time you can get half an hour out of each.
 
  The grenade marker was not that precise and sometimes had me running to where it was, some points 
 in the game have you dying 10 times before you choose the correct stradegy and taking different 
 routes are limited to the rare 'go left or right'.
  The game is much more gory and will have you blowing arms off and seeing the guts on the floor, 
 and i seem to find numerous feet and hands on the ground after battle.
  Fire is fun to play with and fields of grass can be lit to burn enemy soldiers, the death cards 
 are easy to find if you search for them and it is nice that there are only one per level so i didnt 
 have to run around the level (like in cod4 and those laptops)
  Playing on normal, i couldnt help find the veichle missons easy, but was still enjoyable.
  In 
 the end though the game is fun and co-op and multiplayer add alot of replayability, certainly the 
 zombie mode will atleast make you laugh. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vladex00
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 30, 2009 2:00 am PT
Review:  Call of Duty 4 Technology  Built using the Call of Duty 4: Modern Warfare engine, Call of Duty: 
 World at War utilizes a bedrock of technology that delivers jaw-dropping visuals, while empowering 
 players to employ elements like fire to affect the dynamics of the battlefield. Players that attempt 
 to harness the power of new weapons, like the flamethrower, will find themselves capable of burning 
 away environmental elements that give cover to a camouflaged enemy, leaving a charred battlefield 
  and their foes  in their wake 
  Coordinated Assault and Support  For the first time in the franchise, Call of Duty: World at War 
 introduces co-op, bringing fresh meaning to the No One Fights Alone mantra. Call of Duty: World 
 at War co-op features up to four-players online, or two-player local split-screen, allowing gamers 
 to experience harrowing single-player missions together for greater camaraderie and tactical execution. 
 The title also incorporates traditional multiplayer components such as challenges, rankings and 
 online stats into the co-op campaign for deeper re-playability and advanced gameplay 
  New Theaters of Operation  Players fight as U. S. Marines and Russian soldiers facing enemies  
 some new to the Call of Duty franchise  that employ lethal new tactics and know no fear, no mercy, 
 nor the rules of war. Epic conflicts are fought on multiple fronts, playing through the climactic 
 battles of WWII in the grittiest, most chaotic and cinematically intense experience to date 
  Innovative Multiplayer  Multiplayer builds from the success of Call of Duty delivering a persistent 
 online experience for more squad based interaction. New development with party systems allows an 
 intimacy with squad based combat never before seen in Call of Duty. Combined infantry and vehicle 
 missions add a new dimension to the online warfare and offers more PERK abilities 
  Cinematic Quality Graphics and Sound  Treyarch's award-winning sound department returns with effects 
 that add to the already immersive cinematic intensity of the Call of Duty 4: Modern Warfare game 
 engine 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dekadance
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 29, 2009 9:04 am PT
Review:  Firstly I think this is the most complete WWII shooter release till date, i have nothing to reproach 
 to the game - in my view they guys did a tremendous job on all grounds. The game has the most complete 
 singleplayer WW2 campaign that takes you across all theaters of war, missions are not superficial 
 - maybe to some degree to difficult at times - but overall well shaped.
  The guns fire eather realistic eather are very pleasant to use... Even pistols help unlike other 
 similar releases, where usually pistols are useless.
  I haven't played the multiplayer yet but I expect it to be close to the singleplayer.
  The bad: 
 hmm I don't know... Maybe the Russian campaign a little, the campaign that was episodic and kept 
 insisting on the "immortality" of that Russian hero - which was a bit off maybe - unless you take 
 the funny side and remember it's just a game:)
  And maybe the end has disappointed me a little, as I would have preferred an allied last mission. 
 
  
  Great job guys!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: squirt871
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 28, 2009 12:50 pm PT
Review:  War, as Fallout 3 so famously puts it, never changes. While the weapons and tactics may differ, 
 it's still about chaos and fear and the overwhelming of the senses as adrenaline surges through 
 your veins. That's a hard experience to capture on a screen, but the Call of Duty series comes 
 close thanks to its constant redefinition of what "11" is in terms of intensity for first-person 
 shooters. Last year's Call of Duty: Modern Warfare delivered an awesome and varied single-player 
 experience that was matched with an even better multiplayer suite, and it made for some really 
 big shoes for Call of Duty: World at War to fill. 
  
  If you've been living in Antarctica the past year and haven't heard, then yes, World at War returns 
 back to the series' World War II roots. This has caused no end of grumbling from fans of Modern 
 Warfare's contemporary setting, as well as the fact that this installment was done by Treyarch, 
 a sister-studio to Call of Duty-creator Infinity Ward. Treyarch did the somewhat-maligned Call 
 of Duty 3, but the studio looks to atone for that by delivering a game with an impressive amount 
 of content. There's a solid single-player campaign, co-op play, a huge multiplayer suite, and even 
 a fun, silly mode featuring zombies. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sweeneytoddfan
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 28, 2009 9:25 am PT
Review:  This game is AMAZING!!! The single-player is emotional and brutal and well scripted. the enemies 
 drop nades in your pocket from far away but the only thing is that the AI is stupid sometimes. 
 this is much more brutal and bloody than other COD games and most other games. enemies lose limbs 
 like mr. potato head and blood comes in buckets. the co-op ads some extra content and fun and multiplayer 
 is extremely addicting. The game copies from COD 4 but adds on some new stuff like the flamethrower 
 and bayonet. Enemies crawl and bleed and its just funny to blow the limbs off of nazis and japanese 
 people. The weapons are soooooo cool and the attachments add to the multiplayer. every weapon is 
 balanced out well and Gary Oldman and Kiether Sutherland did a great job with the voices of Roebuck 
 and Resnov. try this game you will love it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cmiquila
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 26, 2009 2:08 pm PT
Review:  (This review is for the single campaign played on a PC, haven't tried multiplayer or coop)
  
  This game has a mix of good and not so good things, and when you consider and weight them together 
 you come on with a pretty average game but that at the same time it's way too fun to play as its 
 predecessors were, so it's hard to give it a fair review. Anyway I'll try. Let's start with the 
 good things 
  
  The game is fun. Way fun and challenging particularly at the highest difficulty settings. For those 
 of us that waited a long time for Activision to give us a rendering of the Pacific Theater in WWII, 
 COD WaW was the culmination of a long time wish. That campaign is awesome, with realistic scenarios 
 and battles, with the infamous banzai charges, flamethrowers as a decisive weapon and overall depicting 
 of the way you see those battles unfold on TV specials or read about it. The absence of the battle 
 for Iwohima is something that surprised me, but hey, we have Okinawa at least and that was a hard 
 fought battle. The graphics are also great and the "colors" of the battles, with the blood ind 
 the sand and grass and the constant smoke and the absolute pandemonium that those battles should 
 have been very well represented graphically. You even have the eventual rainbows when the light 
 hit some waterfalls at the highest graphic settings! All this with a very stable game that played 
 flawlessly on a mid range, 1.5 years old Maingear system on a 22" monitor. Checkpoints are also 
 well distributed, with a few exceptions when you see your game saved several times when nothing 
 is really happening and then not saving at all on very long battles. This could be frustrating 
 if you play at the hardest difficulty set, but you learn to live with it. Nevertheless saving when 
 you want as opposed to checkpoints is always better. Checkpoints are for consoles, not for PCs 
 
  
  Now for the not so good stuff. The single campaign is short. And I mean very short, to the point 
 that COD4, which for me was already way short, looks like a 50 one hour chapters TV miniseries. 
 The game is over in less than 10 hours of play, and that at the highest difficulty settings. I 
 started playing it on Monday and was done by Sunday, playing it only a few hours each day, some 
 days not playing at all. At best and based on old COD standards before COD4, this game should have 
 been an expansion pack for a main title, not a full game itself. Of course, this game isn't worth 
 50 bucks but 25 at best, but it seems this is the new standard for Activision, trying to sell its 
 games more for the multiplayer replay value than for the single campaign itself, which alienates 
 single campaigners as myself. This is the shortest game I've remember playing
  
  Also, the Russian campaign is a reenactment of old COD games campaigns packed with a bit of more 
 action and better graphics, and to be fair a bit repetitive, particularly if you've played other 
 COD games. I found it not that appealing, and could say it would have been worthless if not being 
 for the final take of the Reichstag which looked amazingly vivid and realistic. Not sure. There 
 were other better campaigns on the Pacific Theater or even going back to the West Front would have 
 been better than to play the East Front again. Even the battle for Casino or why not, play the 
 "Bad Guys" (read Nazi Germans) for a couple of missions?
  
  The graphics, even if good enough, are not amazing. In contrast, the game looks about the same 
 as the COD 4 looked, and that's and older game. If you compare it let's say with current games 
 as Dead Space or even with Bioshock, which is way older, graphics look average, nothing extraordinary. 
 It seems Activision just took the COD4 engine, wrote a few chapters with WWII weapons and uniforms 
 and then labeled it a game, boxed it and sold it. Nothing really innovative here, which doesn't 
 surprise me considering how fast after COD4 this game was launched
  
  Overall, a good very short game worthy of buying used for half its price or wait for its price 
 to fall. Way low replay value and way low first play value if you ask me
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: myxdgh
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 20, 2009 2:35 pm PT
Review:  to be honest: this is my first review. attention my rev contains spoilers.
  
  short before i got cod: waw i took out good, old (2004) MOH: pa, installed it, and played it. I had 
 on 'hard' for 2 days really a good time. Doing the boot-camp in San Diego guided by an sensational 
 scripted drill-jnstructor, surviving Pearl Harbor, doing the Makin Raid, life through Guadacanal 
 (sensational Air-Field Level, again remember !!2004!!) . Travelled via planefight to Tarawa and 
 fought there a a heart-beating battle together with my well known ai-mates which i know from the 
 first level on. When i finished this game i had really the feeling i lived though something, had 
 a good time fighting (together with my ai-buds) the very realistically acting jap-buddies & had 
 been given a history-lesson via the in the game included supplemental videos and interactive-timescales. 
 Additional you can activate pop-up facts, which informs u during the game nearly about everything 
 what u are looking at. Maybe something for freaks, but there is a lot of information (and work) 
 behind it.
  Well done, i was satisfied and happy and kept in on my hd to play it again.
  
  Break, be4 u all think i miss the point.
  
  Ok, i got the game on the day of its release 
 and fixed it on my hd together with some sake & sushi, borscht and vodka.
  In the menu u recognize nothing special. no supplementals, no extras. just play.
  
  Ok, lets 
 play!
  
  After the mk intro (pictures unmotivated cut-together with sound) i'm back to Makin Atoll (MOH: pa) . 
 U start captivated, abused by a jap, who seconds later slits the throat of your also captivated 
 friend ai-soldier. 
  Man, what a good start.
  Suddenly, out of nowhere some fellow soldiers kill all the japs around u, give u a gun & advise 
 u 2 follow & kill everything what not looks like u!
  
  That's the game!
  
  First, i put the sushi & the borscht away, then i switched from sake & vodka to beer & redvine.
 
  Then i thought, ok; give the game a chache.
  
  Pazific levels done, resume: 
  Cool graphics, nice scriptings, state of art effects.
  but i missed the 'in game' feeling. 
 
  Why? Ok, let me sum up:
  - Your buddies are cannonfodder. when they die (if ever, because sometimes they must be relatives 
 to superman - they swallow more bullets than willam defoe in 'platoon' be4 they go down.) they 
 are immediately replaced by some soldiers coming out of somewhere.
  
  - The weapon-sounds maybe realistic (i don't know) . but the computer-player wants 2 have 'something' 
 in his virtual hands. 
  
  - Less is more. give us less enemies who are smart 4 the hundreds which u throw at us. (again, 
 MOH: pa does the trick !!2004!!)
  
  - No player-identification. U are pvt. Miller. U also could be pvt. a..... e. Why not let the player 
 choose his name by himself. Many of rpg's have that feature allready implemented.
  this could be a possibility 2 bring the player closer 2 the game.
  
  - Lbnl., no historical 
 correctness. the uniforms, the tanks, etc.
  
  Pls, don't think i'm fussy.
  I just want 2 say that 'i'ts the little things that kill' ( (Bush) not George, i mean the rock-band)
 
  all the small missing things makes a great game just good.
  
  Russian level:
  2 be honest: i hate 2 b a russian.
  Very nice opening, U start 2 hope - now u get into the game!
 
  But after 10min the game gets back 2 his old routine.
  
  U trigger a point & 1000 foes appear.
  U have the choice: EASY - play it through, make this an 
 end.
  ALL OTHER DIFFICULTIES - you really like killing people
  
  I don't want 2 bother u further: the game keeps up like this. U will be 2 or 3 times a marine & 
 i think 2 times a russian.
  The enemies are gett'in more close 2 the end & every of the 2 'stories' end's up in some kind of 
 drama.
  UFF! Finished!
  
  2 SUM UP: 
  
  If u like that kind of gamez - play it! It's eventhrough my complainements a good game, which deliveres 
 the fan of the chambre a thrilling ride.
  U just get a problem when u played a lot of gamez, because then u start 2 compare. And then u know 
 what u really like - 2 be in the game, 2 have comprehensible fighting-fun, towed 2 a good story, 
 with memorizable moments, additional competitions or infos 2 give the player a motivation 2 replay 
 the game.
  
  COD: war deliveres a lot of that . . . . 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Daword
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 17, 2009 5:24 am PT
Review:  im played more than 200pc games. so i know what games are realy good and what game are boring or 
 just realy bad
  i allways buy those new pc games and try them 
  im almost played every new pc game.. so if i give 9-10 points its have to be a REALY good game 
 and u shoul buy it or even try it =)
  someone give games 9-10 points just to easyly, i give those points only for masterpieces..
  and 
 i dont write big review i give now only points and thats because my main language is not enghlis 
 so its brety hard to write.
  so my enghlis is not so good that i can tell every nice or bad things in games.. so i use only 
 points =)
  i hope everyone understand that and if not dont take it personaly i just try to give my own opinion 
 those games whitout words.. 
  i think brety many just look those numbers? ;) thx to undertanding
  
  
  Graphic 8/10
  
 
  
  Sounds 8/10
  
  
  Gameplay 7/10
  
  
  GameValue 6/10
  
  
  many times games look great.. but game play its not so good. i mean its very linear game play.. 
 friendly soldiers "follow" u if u dont go they dont go.. i can say its one man fight.. its still 
 the same good game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Warpld
Rating: 6.5
Date: Feb 19, 2009 4:02 am PT
Review:  Treyarch are obviously not the right people to do a Call of Duty game. Still, I must give it to 
 them - this time they have done their homework and copied most of what was good in Modern Warfare:
 
  
  Breathtaking graphics - check!
  Intense battles - check!
  A sense of power to all weapons - check!
  Wonderful multiplayer - check!
  
  However, when 
 it comes to creating something new and actually adding something to the franchise, it shows really 
 bad that the young porting studio has a looong way to go in terms of accumulating game development 
 experience.
  
  The singleplayer campaign of this game feels kind of good, but that is because of the abovementioned 
 battles and weapons. Scripted scenes, though, which have always been the thing that one remembers 
 in a Call of Duty game, suck big time here. Treyarch lacks the experience and imagination to create 
 memorable moments. Forget about tanks rolling over trenches while you crawl underneath! Forget 
 running with just one clip in hand looking for a rifle in Stalingrad! Forget all that! There is 
 just one level that stands out in the Russian campaign where you get to play a sneaky sniper, but 
 didn't we get such a level already in Modern Warfare?
  
  At the same time Call of Duty retains some of its most annoying features. The path you traverse 
 is as limited as ever. Even when storming the huge square in front of the Reichstag, there are 
 crates and fences everywhere that set you on a narrow, winding path to the building itself.
  
  Infinite enemy spawning is here, too! Namely, if you hold a position and take too much cover, 
 enemies will keep coming until you run out of ammo. You have to risk it in order to advance and 
 it is always you that leads the charge, otherwise your comrades will just duck somewhere and often 
 won't even shoot. At first, I was advancing carefully, peeking behind cover and ducking and I often 
 killed over 50 enemies before advancing to the next checkpoint, sometimes most of them coming from 
 a tiny room. Instead, I tried to hit the sprint button, take a few hits on the way but make it 
 to some cover deep within enemy territory. In this case, there will be 7-10 enemies at most guarding 
 the last line and your comrades will move forward as well and even might actually hit something. 
 I so much hate that. This is the thing that breaks the impression the most in my opinion.
  
  This problem could have been solved with better AI, but unfortunately AI is as dreadful as 
 in previous Call of Duty games. Enemies just spawn. They take cover (not always very effectively) 
 but that's it. They will never flank, they never run for backup (no need - it will spawn) , they 
 stand idle between shots, begging for a headshot and they cheat with grenades - I haven't played 
 Clear Sky to know how bad is this problem there, but here Tojo can blindly toss a grenade in your 
 feet behind cover. Enemies are not godly accurate, still they do impossible throws, but the real 
 pain comes from the fact that on higher difficulty enemies spam you with so many grenades, there 
 is simply nowhere to run. This might be realistic, but it certainly ain't fun to play, especially 
 when movement is so limited by the level design.
  
  Speaking of AI, friendlies are even worse! Your squad will never participate much. They are just 
 there so you feel like you are a part of a team, but in fact they follow pre-set paths and traverse 
 them only if you are already somewhere ahead fighting Nazi. They can hardly kill an enemy, too. 
 If you happen upon their path, they might get you stuck in them or push you from behind cover right 
 into an MG nest's line of sight. Terrible! Oh, and they respawn if too many of them get killed 
 :) , but plot characters are immortal, of course!
  
  Everything said up to here speaks of an OK shooter which deserves something like the OK 7.5 mark. 
 However, the reason why this game is closer to misunderstandings like Overdose is because this 
 is the most unstable game I have played in years! The game crashes and freezes all the time and 
 I run it on a very standard PC with nVidia card, Intel processor, Asus mainboard, etc. The last 
 time I remember something as dreadful is when I played Morrowind. However, I had a quicksave function 
 then which allowed me to save every 5 seconds and the game never actually froze my computer forcing 
 me to restart so it was bearable. Not like the case with World at War! This game forces you to 
 restart the level every time it crashes. Checkpoints won't do unless you have saved at them manually 
 (meaning quit the game and start it again) . Another problem is that sometimes checkpoints won't 
 trigger so you have to play 1/3 of a level to reach a checkpoint, then you will quit the game so 
 you can save, otherwise you will be afraid that the game will crash and you will lose all your 
 progress and have to start all over again. Scripted events won't trigger either from time to time, 
 resulting in more level restarts. And on top of all that, the game crashes inevitably if you die 
 too many times at certain points. This is real hell on higher difficulty and effectively doubled 
 the gameplay hours for me. Lame try to prolong the life of your creation Treyarch. If this hadn't 
 happened, I might have actually stayed even more with your game, spending many hours in multiplayer 
 or replaying the campaign and trying to find the well-hidden award cards. Not now though...
  
  The game still has some merits though. Cooperative play through the campaign is always sweet 
 and the nazi zombies mode is hell of a lot of fun, provided you gather 4 people or so to play it. 
 This is also the first bloody Call of Duty. Still, these are not enough to redeem crashes every 
 15 minutes and uninspired campaign! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: YHBT_YHL_HAND
Rating: 5
Date: Feb 20, 2009 8:31 am PT
Review:  World at War is essentially Modern Warfare with new weapons, maps and bugs. Unfortunately, while 
 the maps are a big improvement over 4, the bugs are far more common and serious, ranging from not 
 having any sound to getting a BSOD when you leave the server. In terms of the weapons, they fixed 
 grenade launchers and martydom, but submachine guns are now horribly overpowered. On any given 
 server, 4 out of 5 players will be using a type 100 or a ppsh, while the remaining player will 
 either be sniping (and probably at the bottom of the scoreboard) or driving around in a tank. Tanks 
 are another issue in this game. Aside from the heavy armour and instant death cannon, it simply 
 isnt possible for one player to carry enough enough explosives to kill one, unless you can trick 
 one into driving over a sachel charge, which isn't so easy unless the driver is blind or retarded 
 (although he usually is) . You could theoretically rely on your teammates to finish the tank, but 
 teamwork is not a viable strategy in any game where the average iq is 40. The other main issue 
 is support. Initially I agreed with the removal of helicopers, but dogs are much worse. As bad 
 as helicopters are when they're shooting at you, they can only be in one place and they don't respawn 
 after you kill them. Dogs respawn and can be in several places at once, and you won't know where 
 they are until they're actually attacking you. Artillery isn't so bad, but it goes on for far too 
 long compared to airstrikes. The spawn system is also broken, with people spawning all over the 
 map with no apparent pattern, leading to rampant spawnkilling and those wonderful moments when 
 someone spawns directly behind you and sprays you with bullets at point blank range.
  
  In summary, stick with CoD4. It's more balanced and less buggy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Toriko42
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 13, 2009 5:25 pm PT
Review:  To the dismay of some, Call of Duty: World at War (Hereby referred to as World at War) takes the 
 series back to its World War 2 roots. Treyarch did a smart but somewhat lazy move this time around. 
 Instead of trying to innovate the series, a move that failed in Call of Duty 3, they decided to 
 play it smart and just slightly modify what Infinity Ward did with Call of Duty 4. For example, 
 they decided to re-use the same online system as Call of Duty 4 albeit, with some changes to suit 
 the World War 2 setting. They also kept the single player campaign's style similar. An increased 
 importance was placed on not only character development but also in keeping the battles intense 
 and scripted. What emerges from this is an intense and all around stellar entry into the series 
 which is great for us even if it is not the most original execution. 
  
  The campaigns like in previous Call of Duty's span two different fronts in World War 2. The first 
 one focuses on various battles in the Pacific front which center around America and Japan. You 
 play as an American soldier named Private Miller. In the beginning of the game you are a prisoner 
 of war on the island of Makin which is under Japanese control. When you are rescued by Corporal 
 Roebuck (Voiced by Kiefer Sutherland) , you join up with his squad and embark on various battles 
 taking place in Okinawa, and Peleliu. The battles are well done and very intense but problems occur 
 in this campaign. For one, the campaign is all stuff we've seen before; it's the standard Americans 
 always win campaign. Campaigns like this are the reason many of us are tired of World War 2 games. 
 The battles are all very similar and they all take place in either a Jungle, or a Beach. They couldn't 
 have done more with it I guess but it never really changes up in style. I have a complaint also 
 about the representation of the Japanese soldiers in this game. It isn't very sympathetic and it 
 makes them look like savage beasts. It's not a respectful representation of them at all. I say 
 this only because in the Russian campaign, German soldiers were shown in a far more respectful 
 manner. It's somewhat odd and it made the campaign feel somewhat... dirty? The character development 
 is also not as fleshed out as I would have liked. The only character you get familiar with is Roebuck, 
 everyone else is just 'there'. It's not a bad campaign, but it's not great either.
  
  The Russian campaign offers a stark contrast in quality, funny eh. It carries a more 'epic' scale 
 and the campaign just feels a lot more polished. You'll play as Dimitri Petrenko. In the beginning 
 your squad has just been ambushed by German soldiers. You meet with Sergeant Reznov (voiced by 
 Gary Oldman) , who teaches you the skill of sniping and you embark with him on a quest to avenge 
 your squad. Later on you'll join him again on the Western Front. The Russians are now beginning 
 to take Berlin and you'll be right there in the thick of it. This campaign is a lot more mature 
 and surprising. There are a few twists in this campaign and there are a lot of moments where you 
 have no idea who are the bad guys and who are the good guys. This campaign paints no pictures of 
 good and evil, it simply allows the player to decide what they think is right by giving you a moral 
 choice or two. It's well done and a lot more emotional then the American campaign. The character 
 development is also stronger as a whole and the voice acting is also better. This campaign has 
 far more polish and it's clear that two different teams must have worked on these campaigns. This 
 campaigns ranks among one of the best in the series and it is well worth playing.
  
  After you beat the game you have two options. You can either play the co-op mode or play Nazi Zombies. 
 The co-op works well enough but it's not very popular in the PC version. It works like you'd expect, 
 it's co-op. It's nothing new. The only new addition is death cards which you collect while playing 
 the game. Some are easier to find then others of course but if you really wanted to, you could 
 find them all since the levels are linear enough to make exploration a breeze. Death cards basically 
 activate cheats you can use in co-op such as infinite ammo. They make the game easier to play so 
 if you really want to, you and your friends can just mess around and not worry about death.
  
  Nazi Zombies is a nice distraction as well. You are holed up in a little house with nothing 
 but a pistol to start off with. As the levels progress the zombie horde grows larger and larger 
 and these shambling beasts will break down windows, come into your house, and try to kill you. 
 Of course, what would a zombie mode be without guns... After all, just using a pistol would be boring. 
 As you kill Zombies you make increasing amounts of money. For instance a headshot nets 100 dollars. 
 With the money you make you can buy more weapons and more rooms with carry stronger weapons. This 
 keeps the game going as with the stronger weapons you can kill more Zombies without trouble. There 
 is some strategy here as you need to keep patching up windows to keep Zombies out but overall it's 
 just mindless fun. Don't take it seriously; take it for what it is.
  
  The gameplay is what you would expect from a Call of Duty game. There is never a dull moment in 
 sight. Each mission in the game is loaded with action and the game is still so scripted that you 
 can memorize everything that will happen. Enemy placement is always the same it seems and everything 
 triggers when you hit a certain spot. It's what you'd expect from the series. The levels are also 
 completely linear but that's fine. The game will be throwing so many explosions and bullets your 
 way you won't even notice it.
  
  The game plays like any standard first person shooter. You click to shoot your guns, right click 
 to aim down the site; you've seen it all before. Sniping takes a bit more skill, well not really. 
 All you have to do is hold down shift to steady your shot. We didn't expect any innovation in the 
 control, and we didn't get any. The only thing that's been added to the gun play is the increased 
 emphasis on gore. In Call of Duty 4 you saw one arm get blown off, other then that the blood was 
 kept to a minimum. This is not the case in World at War. You'll see limbs blown off with many deaths, 
 you'll see brains splattering after a headshot, and you'll see more blood then you can shake a 
 stick at. It's unnecessary but it adds to the realism and intensity of the game.
  
  Vehicles have also been added into the series. They control the same as they did in United Offensive 
 basically. You control the direction you want to move in with your mouse and from that point you 
 just accelerate. You shoot by clicking at the target. It works well for the most part but it feels 
 slightly clunky. It's not a big issue though since vehicles play a very small role in the game.
 
  
  The online is kept just like you remember it. You have a ranking system that goes up to 65. This 
 time around though, PC owners have the choice to go into the prestige system. This basically lets 
 you choose to re-rank up to 65 again for additional weapons slots. It keeps the online mode going 
 for a long time and it gives you a reason to keep you motivated. The modes have been kept the same 
 except for one addition. War is the new addition which was seen in Call of Duty 3. It's basically 
 a glorified Domination where you have to capture the other teams bases in the order you are told 
 to. You gain an advantage when you capture bases and it's not bad. It keeps you on your feet as 
 rather then defending three bases; you simply defend one base and keep pushing for the one base 
 that can be taken. The other modes are the standards in the series. You have Team Deathmatch, Deathmatch, 
 Capture The Flag, Domination, Sabatoge, Search and Destroy, and Headquarters. They're all as fun 
 as ever and it keeps the online experience varied.
  
  The online has been given a World War 2 makeover though. For instance your weapons selection is 
 now only weapons from that era; sorry guys no P90 here. It's still a lot of fun and you can customize 
 them with silencers and different sights. The increased emphasis though on rifles, bolt action 
 rifles, and sniper rifles is highly appreciated, that was something I missed in Call of Duty 4. 
 The maps are also based on World War 2 locales, most of which are in the campaign. The maps are 
 noticeably bigger then those featured in Call of Duty 4 and they are just as well designed. Treyarch 
 did an excellent job with the online. Some people have complained about bug and glitch exploitation. 
 I've seen none of this. Just stay in a good server with an admin on and it'll be handled either 
 way.
  
  World at War has excellent presentation as a whole. The graphics look great as they are based off 
 the Call of Duty 4 engine. Despite some muddy textures and some bland backgrounds, the game looks 
 fantastic and it still boasts beautiful explosions, particle effects, and lighting effects. The 
 game is also sharp and the interiors look especially 'awesome'. The game has excellent sound design 
 as well which is necessary as this is a Call of Duty game. The bullets, explosions, and the voice 
 work is top notch and really helps immerse you into the game. Gary Oldman does an excellent job 
 as Sergeant Reznov. Kiefer Sutherland, though not as good, does a great job as Corporal Roebuck 
 as well. The only complaint about sound I have is the music. It's not as good as I remember. They 
 did something new where they infused Rock Music and Classical music. Sorry guys, no dice. I'd let 
 it go if it was Modern Warfare but an electrical guitar is not what I want to hear in a World War 
 2 game.
  
  You'd be hard pressed to find a more exciting game then World at War. The game has so much to offer 
 that the value really is outstanding. The single player is highly re-playable on higher difficulties 
 and if that is not enough you have fantastic co-op and online modes to boot. Call of Duty: World 
 at War proves Treyarch has a place in the franchise and even though it may not innovate as much 
 as it could have, it's still a fantastic game well worth trying even if you think you're tired 
 of World War 2.
  
  Pros: Russian campaign is one of the best so far, same excellent online from Call of Duty 4, Great 
 co-op modes, Nazi zombies is a fun distraction, great presentation as a whole, same classic Call 
 of Duty gameplay...
  
  Cons: ... Though maybe too similar? Japanese campaign is not as polished and it is slightly racist, 
 a few bugs and technical issues, some clunky vehicle control.
  
  Overall: A great entry into the Call of Duty franchise. It is well worth the time to check out. 
 
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: hotbodyboy_2006
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 11, 2009 2:29 pm PT
Review:  The Call Of Duty Franchise was never considered to be one of the greatest........ untill COD 4 made 
 its way and changed the whole outlook of the franchise. COD 4 literally atleast personally for 
 me proved to be a Serious Threat to replace Half Life as the Best Ever.
  
  It was a long while since i played one of the Best Shooters in recent years i. e. Call Of Duty 4.
 
  
  As soon as Call Of Duty - World At War was slated to release, it was obvious. There was no excitement. 
 Why? Simply because it wasn't Modern Warfare 2 or a proper Call Of Duty 5.
  
  But i beg to differ. Now, I have played all of the CODs and can call myself a Call Of Duty Fan 
 even though i finished all their games just recently last year.
  
  If you read my Modern Warfare review i had summarized exactly what COD 1 & 2 were about (3 was 
 some remastered thing) .
  
  If you have not read that review, then i repeat. COD 1 had a great start but got boring in the 
 end. COD 2 had a boring start but a great end. COD 4 was unlike any other shooter leave alone COD, 
 it had a great start and a great end.
  
  But we are not here to talk about Modern Warfare, because Modern Warfare is Modern Warfare while 
 the other CODs i. e. 1, 2 & World At War are World War 2 based games.
  
  So what's exactly WAW?
  
  YUP! You guessed it right. Its got the Great Start of COD 1 & Great 
 End of COD 2. Probably because of the influence of COD 4. Ofcourse i know the engine used is same. 
 I am not on that. I am on the Quality of the game which has rubbed on.
  
  COD WAW offers you all the weapons that were used in World War 2. Why i say that its got the QUALITY 
 of influence from COD 4, because the cutscenes are no longer boring and put you off to sleep like 
 COD 1 & 2. Instead they are stylish. Even the enemies, missions etc. are so much improved that 
 i would easily put this game over COD 1 & 2.
  
  The story was really cool. Kinda a rip off from COD 4 with similar ending. But overall it was a 
 great story. The Tank Mission and the Black Cats mission were excellent and easily pwned the missions 
 of COD 1 & 2. The tank has a third person angle and the black cats mission...... is just indescribable. 
 
  
  This game has one thing which COD franchise never had.... what? GORE......... Yes this game has 
 real brutality and it really suits a game like Call Of Duty. They should retain this gore when 
 they make COD 6 or Modern Warfare 2 whatever.
  
  At the end of the game you unlock a Zombie level which is seriously more fun than Left 4 Dead. 
 Yes, i am serious. Where L 4 D (Single Player not Multiplayer) gets monotonous, COD WAW has this 
 rounds concept and really fun. Each round, more zombies and they are realistic and not like L 4 
 D where they run at the speed of Sound!!!
  
  Overall, this game is far superior to COD 1 & 2 and easily and probably the Best War Game Ever.......
 
  
  But this game should not be compared to Call Of Duty 4. Its very unfair as the Atmospheres of both 
 games are different. COD 4 obviously has more High Tech weapons. But its because its not WW 2. 
 One aspect i would rate WAW over Modern Warfare is the Fun and Challenge aspect. The newly introduced 
 gore is awesome and not Overwhelming.
  
  This game actually deserves a 9.5 (Gamespot gave COD 1 & 2 9 odd scores and this game is MILES 
 BETTER) .
  
  The reason this game is 8.5 and low User Scores - Simple. COD 4 - Modern Warfare. Only fools would 
 keep their expectations Sky High after played COD 4 and before playing WAW. So according to me 
 this game deserves atleast a 9. I knew what i would get from this game - A remastered version of 
 COD 1 & 2. But i got a LOT MORE. So if you loved COD 1 & 2 you will love this game. Only modern 
 warfare fans. Ummm..... a bit doubtful. But you won't hate this game for Sure.
  
  Finally, this game had the most sales according to some UK Charts..... which itself proves the greatness 
 of this game & Franchise overall. Do buy this game.
  
  GREAT GAME - 9.5 / 10
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: colbertnation1
Rating: 7
Date: Jan 10, 2009 8:17 am PT
Review:  I would be giving this game a 9 but it has turned out to be the buggiest game I have ever played 
 on, keep in mind I have beta tested many games and my rig is more than capable of handeling this 
 game maxed out with little to no AA.
  
  The singleplayer of this game is alot of fun, although you dont feel like your in a james bond 
 film and the game seems oddly closed off from the rest of the action it does give a good single 
 player fun and action that you come to expect from cod series. The graphics are good, the ideas 
 are great but the tasks and levels are just far to easy. I think cod2 sp even has this game beat, 
 not with graphics but because the sp was better. In cod2 you had to defend a hill while hundreds 
 of Germans came at you.
  In this game your basically just running through empty buildings killing guys. Theres no real spark 
 to it. So if your looking for the thrill cod2 or cod4 gave you, your going to be hard pressed to 
 find it in this game.
  
  CO-OP is alot of fun if you can find a game to join, there are plenty of servers listed but for 
 some reason hardly anyone can find a server that will let them join. This is one of the many bugs 
 that needs to be fixed. Then if you do join it sometimes kicks you from the server during loading.
 
  So if you were planning on killing those zombies? Think again.
  If you do get the CoOP working its fun, but its overrated unless you have a full 4 person game 
 going.
  
  Nazi Zombies is also alot of fun if you can find or get a server going. You hold off against waves 
 of endless zombies until they finally eat you unless of course there is an end level, trust me. 
 Unless you use a mod, you wont find an end level. This has to be sadly... one of the best parts 
 of the game and is part of the action we missed in singleplayer (no defense) . You can use all kinds 
 of weapons that require points which you will get by killing the zombies and holding them out of 
 the house for a time period. All the weapons from single and multiplayer are in the zombie level 
 including a new item. The ray gun. This is a game you can only play if you have finished the entire 
 single player, which is good because you dont want a bunch of noobs asking you the fire button 
 when you have 50 zombies coming through the window.
  
  Multiplayer, by far the funnest and annoying part of the game. Where to start on this buggy feature? 
 COD5 is alot like COD4 in reguards to its multiplayer. Same graphics, same feel, some of the same 
 weapons, ranks and just about everything. So it feels the same way cod4 multiplayer did, which 
 is great!
  The dark side to this is the multiplayer is full of bugs and XP servers which make getting to prestige 
 10, rank 65 a matter of an hour. XP servers take the reason and fun out of leveling up, because 
 anyone can do it now. Also XP servers seem to be causing the most bugs on the game. Other bugs 
 include servers crashing with exceptions and just the game freezing up at random times which makes 
 playing multiplayer almost impossible. There are plenty of other bugs but I wont report those because 
 I havnt expierenced them.
  
  Friends list. To put it simply. It does not work.
  
  Squads, dont know since the friendlist doesnt work most people dont bother with this feature.
 
  
  So far it seems the producers of this game, through it out there and gave it a couple of patches 
 far to quickly and are now just letting the game burn to death. It seems they have no care in the 
 world that this game is killing itself when a few bugs could be fixed, perhaps a new map or 2 and 
 everyone would be happy.
  
  Oh, maps like Iwo Jima and stalingrad, are never seen in the game. Which is a big letdown to many 
 of us who were hoping to catch a glimpse of it.
  
  There are a few different maps in multiplayer that are not in single player, but almost all of 
 them have that been there seen that already feel to em. They do not have any snow maps, so if you 
 enjoyed russian maps in cod2, you wont find them here.
  
  Overall I give this game a 7, which in my honest opinion it doesnt deserve with the current bugs. 
 Its fun and in a few months if the producers have shown any care at all and decide to take the 
 times out of their lazy lives (which we the buyers paid for) to fix this game. It will be worth 
 taking a look at.
  It has nothing on cod4 and other than the graphics, some audio and the multiplayer system which 
 was copied from cod4, has nothing on cod2 even.
  This game was a selling gimic in my opinion, even if its a good one worth checking out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Worf101
Rating: 7
Date: Jan 8, 2009 9:26 am PT
Review:  When I heard that the next installment of the CoD franchise was going to be by Treyarch as opposed 
 to Infinity Ward I knew we were in trouble. Still after a bit I bought a copy used off the Bay 
 and hunkered down to see what's what. 
  
  1. Installation - This was a breeze, the DVD was fine and I was up and fraggin' in no time. Game 
 is quite scalable and I was able to get good if not great frames on my long in the tooth Athlon 
 FX-60.
  
  2. Sound - Runs fine on my old Audigy 2 and it tracks well on all 4 of my speakers. The "occlusion" 
 feature (where obstacles affect sound) didn't seem to work for me but I didn't miss it in-between 
 Banzai charges. 
  
  3. Graphics. - As I said earlier I got it to look good and play fine on my FX-60 with ATI 3870 
 graphics card and 2 gigs of ram. I'm using XP and had no hiccups. Visually quite stunning and bloody 
 good to look at. 
  
  4. Gameplay - Decent but hollow somehow. on single player. The game goes by FAST. I was done in 
 about 5 hours on medium difficulty. Higher settings do make for a longer game but this is due to 
 frustrating A. I. and grenades not do to anything else. The ability to cook off grenades, run, carry 
 light machine guns and flamethrowers all make you much more lethal than in CoD 2 or 4, BUT the 
 story is not compelling for some reason. I don't know why but the whole exercise left me saying 
 'is that all there is?"
  
  I didn't do multiplayer yet so my opinon might change when I do but I don't like FPS online. The 
 bonus Nazi Zombie level is nice in an arcade sort of way and I find myself still doing that but 
 there's little replay value in the game on single player. 
  
  Overall I give the game a C+ but it could've been so much more. 
  
  Da Worfster 
::::::

::::::
UserName: arijit_unreal
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 18, 2009 4:04 am PT
Review:  
  Overview:
  A first person shooter from Active vision based on WWII events. This game features the conflicts 
 that took place between Japanese and US (Pacific Theater) and Soviets and Germans (Eastern Front) 
 in single player campaign. The game also features up to 4 player Co-Op mode. In the single player 
 campaign you get to play as few different characters: Private Miller of the USMC for the US missions 
 and Private Dimitri Petrenko of the Red Army for the soviet missions. The missions are given based 
 on dates. You begin as an US soldier then after completion of few missions you'll be taken to Germany 
 to show you whats going on in there. Theres also another playable character in the 
 game thats on an air strike mission for the US (loved this level) .
  
  Also to be noted that the theme of the game seems to be more matured. While loading theres 
 an audio which says the new recruit calls you the Old Breed when you havent even crossed 
 your twenties. You'll be shown how your team mates react when a leader dies and also a soviet writer 
 who faces the horror of war.
  
  Game-play:
  This time COD features more open ended game-play than ever. There are multiple ways of completing 
 a mission. The game do not lacks enemy that's for sure. I loved how the Japanise Banazi charges 
 fearlessly all of a sudden which can turn the tides against you if you are not careful. Your team 
 mates are also intelligent enough to throw back grenades and provide supporting fire. While the 
 game is loading you'll be given an overview of the situation through short videos. The game includes 
 all of previously featured WWII weapons in the COD series and MORE. Thompson submachine gun, Panzerschreck, 
 Mosin-Nagant, MP42 are some of those. New arsenal includes: (the unstoppable) flamethrower and 
 Air Strike.
  
  Multiplayer mode is also very exciting and includes the obvious death match and CTF. You'll be 
 given special achievements and ranks online.
  
  Graphics and Audio:
  The game uses COD4 engine to give you great performance and dramatic special effects. You can burn 
 down every last grass with the flame thrower and also watch enemies screaming and running when 
 set on fire. The game includes both day and night time missions with pretty good lightning effects. 
 You can notice the sparks of flames on explosions and chips of broken things flying all around 
 you. Audio is great to you'll know which way the shots are coming from.
  
  Conclusion:
  The game is the best WWII game featured in the COD series (and possibly of all games) . Yes we have 
 seen too many WWII games in the past but this game has a whole new perspective of war. By the end 
 of the game you'll realize that War is HELL.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Derek1177
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 7, 2009 6:39 pm PT
Review:  I loved COD4 when i got it. I was addicted to its multiplayer but once i had played and beaten 
 the single player i was done with COD4's campaign. You might wanna check out my COD4 review for 
 more info if you havent played COD4. But now for what i am reviewing. 
  In comparison to COD4 COD5 is a great game that is at least 3 times better then COD3 (for consoles) . 
 If you were to ask me which game to get adn it would be either COD4 or 5. I would tell you to get 
 COD4. But only slightly.
  In the Campaign you play as a US Marine fighting in the islands and jusngles of the Pacific against 
 the fierce japanese warriors. The only game i can think of that got even close to making the japanese 
 fight like they really did was Medal Of Honor Rising Sun. Great game back in the day but Gamespot 
 gave it a low rating for some reason. But in COD5 that all changes. You get flamethrowers to kill 
 japanese with. They will camo themselves in the grass and then banzai you when you arent looking, 
 They will make little holes in the ground with closeable roofs to avoid flamethrower fire, The 
 will hide in trees and start sniping you when you have your back towards them, and many more. In 
 the Russian Campaign you play as a russian conscript. You will meet another dude who i cant remember 
 his name but he has a unforgetable voice. You will fight germans from Stalingrad to the German 
 Border and even into the Nazi Capital Building itself. Overall the Story isnt very memorable especially 
 the American Campaign. But i will tell you that the Russian Campaign (i will try not to spoil) has 
 a much better story because there is for example a Eastern Orthodox Christian Soldier which at 
 the time was illegal to be and you would be executed for being one since Russia was a Comunist 
 nation then. He was running with the russian flag but got burned by a german flamethrower and he 
 fell. His superior toom the bible out of his hands and left him for dead. It gives you that sad 
 sensation that neither side in the east was the "good" side. Both sides mercilessly killed each 
 other and civilians (not civilians in the game though) . And when you march into the German Capital 
 building you get that feeling with the opera music (which is the right music for the right moment) 
 and endless russian soldiers that if you were a german you would think of it as hopeless. Now you 
 mught have heard some bad about the soundtrack but it sounds fine and doesnt detract from the gameplay 
 but i find it to be heartpounding at times and it makes you want to play again and again just hear 
 the speakers on the russian tanks telling the Nazis to surrender and the classic "this is it" music. 
 So as you can tell i love the russian campaign.
  COD5 drastically improves by adding COOP campaign to the game! In COOP Campaign you get up to 3 
 friends or strangers and you play the Campaign together. As far as i know you can play in any mission 
 in COOP. Which is pretty sweet. COOP gameplay is ovaible offline and online for all versions. Now 
 there is also a Nazi Zombies mode which you can also play online with friends, offline with friends, 
 and by yourself (which is not as fun) . You start in this little boarded up house and you got to 
 keep the zombies from getting you. It sounds kinda stupid but it really is a blast with some of 
 the user made maps and mods.
  And now finally the multiplayer. It is very much the same as COD4's online. You unlock weapons 
 and attachments which is real fun but i didnt find it as exciting as i did with COD4. And there 
 isnt as many attachments. But the maps you play on are awsomely fun which makes up for less attachements 
 and exciting guns. you can also (as a totally new feature) gain prestige. In prestige you give up 
 your rank 65 (10 more ranks then COD4) to start at level 1 again. But you get some cool patches 
 which will be shown instead of your little stars and stripes stuff. And you can repeat this ten 
 times but the best part about prestige is... you remember how there would always be those annoying 
 default classes with rank 1 guns? well now when you prestige those default classes can now be turned 
 into custom classes which is something i was hoping would change in this game. it will change into 
 custom classes at each certain prestige rank. Pretty cool isnt it. Now the graphics are as far 
 as i can tell better then COD4's. I dont know about the console versions but the PC version which 
 is the one i own has much better graphics. The game also runs very smooth. Unless your PC sucks 
 or you are playin online and you or the server is lagging. But otherwise it runs real smooth. And 
 finally the difficulty is kinda easy if you play on regular and if youve played COD4 and past COD 
 games before like me. But if you play on hard it really jacks up the difficulty (in a good way) .
 
  Overall Call Of Duty World at War is a worthy game of the Call Of Duty Franchise and a comparable 
 game to 2007's Call Of Duty 4 Modern Warfare. Treyarch has proved to us all that they are worthy 
 of working on future games alongside infinity ward for the Call Of Duty Franchise. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mjs101
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 7, 2009 5:51 pm PT
Review:  Its a highly addictive game probably the best one i have played yet and definitely the best in 
 the Call of Duty Series. Could have better single player campaign, as it is a little bit boring 
 and at times frustrating it is overall though fairly good. Multiplayer and co-op is the best part 
 of the whole game it is amazing. Multiplayer leveling up is a very fun way of getting new guns 
 and mods for them, unlike normal multiplayer this keeps the games more interesting and keeps you 
 coming back for more. Zombie mode is insanely addicting and probably the best part of the whole 
 game. When I got the game all I wanted to do was to play Zombie mode. Incredibly hard and impossible 
 to win but still the most addicting thing I have ever played, and that's saying something. It was 
 definitely worth the price and I would advise anyone to buy the game 10.0 out of 10.0. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ufobob1
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 6, 2009 10:59 pm PT
Review:  this game is just great, its really realistic when you shoot a guy with a trench gun and he blows 
 in half. Pretty dang hard though, but fun to stab Japanese in the neck. I haven't beat it yet because 
 my mouse wouldn't work on this game even know it worked on every other game. I got to the Black 
 cat level and almost beat it when i died i had to start the level over, i was really mad. I still 
 never beat that level, its really cool how there's death cards. Its dumb though that you can only 
 use them in coop with someone else. By far its one of the most realistic games out there. Treyarch 
 did a great job hopefully they make call of duty 6. I think they already started call of duty 6. 
 If you don't have this yet then go buy it. Grenades take like a minute to explode that's pretty 
 stupid. The guns were nicely made and graphics really good, gameplays great overall 10 out of 10 
 nicely made Treyarch. Bye people yours truly ufobob1. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gokileviathan
Rating: 6
Date: Jan 6, 2009 10:25 pm PT
Review:  I was truly satisfied from the amount of enjoyment that I got from playing C. O. D 2 (the same goes 
 for C. O. D Modern warfare) . Now when i play C. O. D World at War, It keeps me up all night and I needed 
 to sleep really bad but I couldn't and my body got to the point where it was about to crack. The 
 graphics and sound was astonishing, the movie-like gameplay was superb and as for the Russian commentary 
 in this game... Remarkably Outstanding. I suggest playing more "C. O. D" games than "Brothers in Arms"... games, 
 because it has too much obscenity and it is too darn real. I don't want to be in the army but I 
 want to play the game so really and truly, I don't want to feel any of it coming from games like 
 those. Anyway, I would have this game as my no. 1 choice in becoming the Game of the Year and i 
 agree to that. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nedcoleman
Rating: 5
Date: Jan 6, 2009 2:03 pm PT
Review:  The uninstall process is very fast! That's why i gave it 5.0. Reeel nice but too many bugs and 
 very strange A. I.... Every 10th second there is a grenade into my face: 1mm next to me. Damn. 
 
  Call Of Duty 4 much better than this WWII disaster. I tried and tried and tried but,,, No Way 
 Dude. This is not your World War Class stuff. They really should work on this project much more. 
 For me, this is a beta version... Try Brothers in Arms Hell's Highway. That's not the best too, 
 but better than this horrible stuff. Do you think I hate this stuff? NO way man. Just please. Forget 
 that WorldWar story if U haven't got a good idea. Or put some tactical shooter elements maybe. 
 
  
  Horrible A. i. - 1.0 (Your pulse will be over the top)
  Story 3.275 (Boooring)
  Impressive GFX - 8.0
  Very fast uninstallation process - 10.0
  
  
  Total 4.675:) ) ) ) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: iXBuRny
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 5, 2009 9:24 am PT
Review:  I knew once again another $50 bucks is gonna be spent on something great. I knew I had to get it 
 to add to the COD collection. And I wasn't disappointed either! Now I will say at first I wasn't 
 thrilled, but within 15 minutes I knew once again Activision sucked me into the game addiction 
 world with this, just as I finally broke the addiction of COD4. THANKS ALOT! LOL Aaah well it was 
 inevitable wasn't it? I really love the added weapons and that you can man the tanks! Those babies 
 are awesome! And man those tank nades go BOOM! And the first time my legs got blown off and I saw 
 those bloody stumps there I couldn't believe it, then I blew someone's arm and leg off, HOLY CRAP! 
 Did those parts go flying! 
  Anyone who liked anyone of the COD versions will love this one guaranteed. It was well worth the 
 money once again. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Roguetrp
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 5, 2009 12:54 am PT
Review:  I am happy to do this review so late after release of the game. I read all the reviews done before 
 and as the game was launched, and they don't do justice. People went and tried to connect it some 
 way to COD4. you cant. Even if it uses the same engine as COD4 it has been improved, and it looks 
 GOOD. The sound is awsome and I know some guys moaned about the sound, THIS IS WW2, GUNS SOUNDED 
 DIFFERANT THEN. Well, seeing that COD4 modern warefare 2 is on its way I would like to comment 
 on the MP side of CODWaW.
  It has alot, offers alot and plays like a beast. Not having ever played a WW2 game on-line before, 
 this blew my mind.
  GUYS  MP is great, and solid, just the XP gains on some servers are a joke, but hell, If you finished 
 it once, it gets quite anal doing it 10 times.
  
  Well done for this brilliant game, I enjoy playing it and has not started COD4 up since I got this 
 game. PS and I spent over 1000 hours on COD4.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: sirkel28
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 4, 2009 4:37 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay: Somehow I enjoy the gameplay in this better than COD4, maybe it is the different multilayer 
 game types like War and CTF. The dogs are a cool idea over the Heli in COD4. There are lots of 
 weapons and perks like COD4, and more levels, unfortunately they allowed servers to give massive 
 amount of XP per kill so that kind of ruined the point of levels. There are a few quirks now and 
 again with netcode, but not that often. Somehow the game is less frustrating that COD4 is.
  
  Graphics: The graphics are fantastic. Better looking and far more variety than the boring and 
 bland COD4 maps. 
  
  Sound: Sound is fine, some people are anal about it, but I don't think it is as bad as they make 
 it out to be.
  
  Many people have problems with the game crashing or bugging out on them, so far I only had a problem 
 once in a while with certain servers kicking me out, maybe it was PB, not sure what caused it. 
 90% of the time there is no problem.
  
  While it isn't perfect, it is fun and a nice variation from COD4. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Yackeroeni
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 4, 2009 10:47 am PT
Review:  I've never played any other game of the Call of Duty series so I can't compare to those. I can 
 compare it to a few Valve games, like Counter-Strike: Source and Team Fortress 2, and Call of Duty 
 just blows those away. The class customization in combination with the ranking system works just 
 fine, you don't even have to be a FPS-hero, you'll just have to play a little bit more if you can't 
 get a positive Kill/Death Ratio. This is mainly due to the achievements which earn you a lot of 
 experience, but the experience you get by completing a match adds a lot to it too.
  
  There's also a wide range of game types in multiplayer, including the classic Deathmatch, Team 
 Deathmatch, Search and Destroy, Domination, Capture the Flag, etc. Once you get tired of playing 
 one type, you can just skip to the next one and the whole game changes. And tough most servers 
 give you an unlimited amount of lives, you can also play with 1 live each, or 2, or 3, or even 
 9 lives each.
  
  It's really fun ranking up and experiencing new weapons, you can choose your own favorite weapon 
 out of a nice collection. Wheter you like to snipe, or just to rampage with your machine gun, the 
 weapon for you is to be found in Call of Duty: World at War.
  
  One word about the singleplayer: I've only played it for a few days while my internet connection 
 was down, and it was able to satisfy me for those few days. It is not nearly as fun as the multiplayer, 
 but you can survive for a while with it... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ONLawson
Rating: 7
Date: Jan 3, 2009 6:32 am PT
Review:  Felt this was a bit disappointing overall. 
  
  Storyline was nowhere near as compelling as CoD4. It felt very disjointed and you never really 
 got the sense of fighting for any sort opf cause. It was just point, shoot, point shoot and do 
 it all again. They really missed an opportunity to take the russian campaign from the nadir at 
 which you start all the way up to winning in Berlin - they just skip out 3 years from '42 to '45, 
 and you go from lying bloodsoaked in a Stalingrad gutter (which you fight your way out of, which 
 is probably the best bit of the game, apart from the plane section) to having the upper hand whipping 
 the Germans back across their own country side. If they'd invested a bit more on the interim period 
 you'd have felt more of the righteous vengeance the Russian soldiers felt ( and hence their bloodthirsty 
 approach to killing Germans at every opportunity) . Brothers in Arms: Hell's Highway had a better 
 storyline; maybe its a side effect of having the split narrative. Certainly the American storyline 
 was stunted and never really got going. 
  
  The other (less significant but annoying) disappointment to me was the failure to implement the 
 XBox 360 controller into the game. The box says it, the manual even shows you the key layout, but 
 they apparently pulled it at the last moment (forums refer to it as a 'misprint') ! Not everyone 
 out there likes WASD, and if they can manage to program the admittedly glorious graphics then not 
 having the controller option in there surely cannot be down to technical issues? 
  
  Final small complaint is the way the cutscenes dialogue gets very quiet on occasions, even if you're 
 right in the speaking character's face. PErhaps that affected my ability to feel part of the story. 
 
  
  Anyway, my feelings are that this was OK as far as it went but was never as good or immersive as 
 the CoD4 storylines, which interwove and really pulled you in. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: staraven
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 2, 2009 5:31 am PT
Review:  After playing Call of Duty: Modern Warfare over and over again, it was with much anticipation I 
 awaited World at War. The previous WW2 Call of Duty games were fun, but with Modern Warfare, the 
 graphics and game play were so much improved, I was hoping it would be ported to WW2. Well, this 
 Christmas, Santa brought it to me!
  
  The game was easy to master, except that stupid knife attack - I never got it right in Modern Warfare 
 either. Stupid Banzai attackers! Anyway, I liked the Japanese campaign - you never know when or 
 from where they will attack. Sometimes it gets down right crazy! I wonder why we didn't have more 
 friendly fire incidents during this campaign - I know I've shot good guys while in a frenzy. You 
 really need to master the knife attack! Brutal fighting, just like dad told me about (he was there) . 
 The graphics, sound, and story are good. I didn't encounter any bugs or crashes. The only disruption 
 was my wife wanting to know if I was still alive upstairs.
  
  The other campaign is Russian. It was during this portion of the game I realized the quality of 
 the weapon sounds - each is different and from the few I've heard in real life - very authentic. 
 This portion of the game was as chaotic as the Japanese encounters, but the "russian horde" was 
 there. Sure do miss the .50 cal sniper rifle from Modern Warfare! 
  
  My big beef is the length of the solo play. Seemed like a couple of coffee's later, I was done! 
 In retrospect, I hope they add another module - for purchase I bet, that would include German and 
 American battles. I think they really push the on-line encounters. Co-op and Multiplay are big 
 in the industry now, but I'm a hermit and don't get outside my firewall much. I did try to play 
 some Co-op, but either didn't have the mod they were playing, or the game was full. The one game 
 I did manage to into, we sat around waiting for the host to launch the game.... until he finally 
 left the lobby. Oh well. After that, I couldn't find an open game - a lot of games had a max of 
 4 players and were full, or the game was locked. I will try again. Hope it is better than Brothers 
 in Arms online was.
  
  Overall, it's a great stable but short game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hemregul
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 2, 2009 1:34 am PT
Review:  The graphics are very good based on the game engine used. Multiplayer is fun to play and single 
 player is quite good but to short. 
  
  For my part I have had enough of ww2 stuff. I would have hoped for a more modern COD game with 
 a new and exciting storyline. 
  
  In general the atmosphere is "O. K", but not comparable to that of of duty 4. I mean the first time 
 I played COD4 I was truly excited. 
  
  The wide range of weapons and overall graphic performans is quite good. Excellent for multiplayer 
 -- I love the betty's :-) . 
  
  To summarise I like COD5 as a game in general but I guess I was expecting more after the COD4 revolution 
 in gaming. Maybe thats why I am a bit biased. 
  
  It just seems that there are too many ww2 games out there....
  
  Overall, COD5 is one of the 
 best games in 2008 compared to many of the other FPS with the exception of COD4 :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Marine1175
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 1, 2009 8:26 pm PT
Review:  Single-player was very immersive and very well done, along with graphics, sound, characters, script, 
 story, everything. But Multiplayer is another story, On average, it takes myself around 8-11 tries 
 to begin playing a game because of crippling bugs that fail to recognize the server authentication 
 8/10 times and 1/2 of the time you turn on the game it fails to connect to "online service" and 
 occasionally gets "bad packets". Multiplayer is almost not worth it, sorry treyarch, get it right 
 the first time. Also if you even manage to get past all of those bugs, horrible lag tends to spike 
 on all of the servers, going from a normal of 90-150 to 210-500. But if you manage all of that, 
 then you get a game with truly fun multiplayer that is extremely addictive, if you work past the 
 bugs of course. But another problem is probably just my computer, for I tend to lag up every time 
 I aproach a densly packed area of foliage, and the game will run "extremely" slow, and turning 
 down the graphics, resolution and anti-analising has no effect whatsoever on the lag, even with 
 poor graphics and resolution this is still a problem. There seems to be many bugs with this game, 
 but it is all together a very fun game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: katana18
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 1, 2009 9:21 am PT
Review:  I have been a loyal follower of the Call of Duty series. I played the all the PC versions, and 
 enjoyed them immensely. For this review, I'll be comparing CoD 5 to CoD 4.
  
  CoD 4 was, in a nutshell, an action packed roller coaster. It was always thrilling and exciting 
 to kill the terrorists and get on to the next challenge. Armed with ultra-modern equipment, you 
 ran through a "24 the TV series"-like plot, without much thought given to it. In fact, the whole 
 thing felt like one giant arcade game even with a dedicated mode to prove it. That's not to say 
 it wasn't fun or deserving of the praise it has received. I've reviewed that too, and you can check 
 it out. In fact, I still go into the multiplayer every now and then.
  
  CoD 5 is not CoD 4. They share the same engine and the same name, but that's about it.
  
  Technical 
 details first though: the video, audio, and gameplay have no obvious faults. On closer inspection, 
 I find the textures to be poorly detailed and less attractive than games like Crysis and even CoD 
 4. On the other hand, the audio is superb. I'll describe this in a bit. The gameplay is fairly 
 straightforward. It's shooting at it's best.
  
  I have a confession to make: I thoroughly enjoyed the Russian campaign. My favorite level one where 
 you pushed into Berlin, after the battles at Seelow.
  
  In that particular level, I enjoyed the voice-acting by your very blood-thirsty and brutal comrade 
 sergeant. I enjoyed going into the streets of a bombed out German city, transitioning from one 
 mode to another. Here's a short example: one minute I was clearing out houses in Opera tunes, and 
 the next, it was a heavy rock score as I dashed with my comrades through the streets, and into 
 a subway. I won't go any further to prevent spoilers.
  
  The music score, and voice-acting (Kiefer Sutherland of 24) are flawless. I won't comment much 
 on the plot of the game as it's neither outstanding nor disappointing. What I have to mention is 
 the amount of violence and gore that is present. In fact, you'll probably feel disgusted with the 
 Japanese in the first few hours you start playing. Then you realise that these were actually the 
 real deal. The Japanese had no care or respect for their own lives as long as they could take you 
 down with them.
  
  It's enough to make the hardest of hearts skip a beat.
  
  CoD 5 deserves better. Apart from outdated looking textures, and a bug with the loading screens 
 as well as the main menu (nothing serious, and not everyone will face these) , CoD 5 is flawless. 
 I haven't tried out that Zombie Nazi level yet, and I haven't had a go in the multiplayer, but 
 the single-player content alone has scored this game a very well deserved 9.5.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: JUPIII
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 3, 2009 7:11 am PT
Review:  I played and finished the game soo i can say that this is a amazing game. Graphics perfect, gameplay 
 amazing, sound is perfect too. That was the good side of the game, now its time for the bad side. This 
 game has got to many errors. I have a good pc: Intel dual pentium 3.2 Ghz,2gb ram (1066Mhz) , Nvidia 
 GeForce 8800 gt 512 mb, buT I spend too much time for fixing errors. I had two errors in this game. The 
 first one is the famous error unhandled caught. I spend one hour or two for finding the fix for 
 that error on net and finally find it. I fix it and the game started. I chosed the difficulty and...
 
  Nothing happens, a new error. After maybe three hours of finding and fixing the error I finally 
 started the game. When I started playing it I said to me: It is worth the spended time. Truly amazing 
 game! Japanese and German in one game that truly amazing. I said everything else in the begining 
 of the review. This game has got just one fault. Its too short. I finished it for less than 10 hours. Because 
 of that this is a TOO SHORT MASTERPIECE!!!
  End of the review.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ARRAEEee
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 31, 2008 6:55 pm PT
Review:  recently officially announced that they're working on a sequel to their popular Call of Duty series. 
 
  
  The sequel should retain the general feel of Call of Duty 4, but with different military settings, 
 meaning that WWII scenarios are out of the picture. The game will find its way to six platforms: 
 PC, Xbox 360, PlayStation 3, Nintendo DS, PlayStation2 and Nintendo Wii.
  The explosive opening sequence in Call of Duty World At War signals the beginning of an emotional 
 and thrilling ride through some of World War II's Pacific and Eastern Europe campaigns. 
  We've taken a different approach than usual to writing this review, splitting it into two parts 
 to try and give you a taster of what to expect from this unpredictable, energetic and immensely 
 enjoyable first person shooter. In the first part, we relay an account of the opening first half-an-hour 
 or so of the campaign, whilst the second section concentrates on our gameplay impressions. The campaign 
 begins in true Call of Duty style by thrusting you straight into the action as you wake up in a 
 hut on the Pacific Ocean island of Makin Atoll having been captured by Japanese soldiers. You're 
 greeted with the disturbing sight of your comrade interrogated by the enemy and then cruelly tortured, 
 with a nasty cigar burn to his face, for his unwillingness to co-operate. In foolish defiance he 
 spits in the face of his aggressor who then unshields his knife and brutally slits his throat. 
 He then takes a few paces towards you brandishing his weapon menacingly. Just as you think you're 
 about to suffer the same fate, a group of soldiers storm the hut and wrestle him to the ground 
 just in time. It's the rescue squad! Hooray! 
  And more after you went to russia with different person and first you your boss play the game and 
 then the russia soldier went us .
  this game have very different gun and vehicle . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Naikori
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 7, 2009 5:17 am PT
Review:  The Call Of Duty franchise came back to the World War II setting that it has done through Call 
 Of Duty to Call Of Duty 3. Call Of Duty 4 took us out of the WWII setting and brought us to Modern 
 Times. The Single Campaign was rather short, though. Now, Treyarch took hold of Call Of Duty: World 
 At War. How well did they do when it comes to the Single Campaign?
  
  As you start the game, you play first as a American Marine. You come to a little cutscene that 
 shows your troops talking about you and three other soldiers becoming M. I. A. After the cutscene, 
 you are in a little room with a Japanese Soldier in your face smoking. The only words in English 
 that he says to you are, "You think because you say nothing, you are strong?" He then talks to 
 another Japanese soldier. One of your troops that have became M. I. A is tied up and trys to be smart 
 with the Japanese Troops. The gets his throat slit. The Japanese Soldier that slit the other troops 
 throat comes to do the same thing to you. Luckily, Cpl. Roebuck, the guy who was talking at the 
 cutscene, stabs the Japanese Soldier in the back. You see your other troops beating down on other 
 Japanese Soldiers. Sgt. Sullivan gives you a helmet and a Pistol and tells you in your face, "Grab 
 A Rifle! Were Gonna Tare This Place Apart!" That's when the real action starts.
  
  After three missions in the Marine Campaign, you switch over to the Soviet Campaign, which takes 
 place during the Battle of Stalingrad. You play as Dimitri Petrenko, who wakes up with other dead 
 Russian Soldiers. You then meet Seargent Reznov, who want to kill a German Seargent that has done 
 all bad to you and your other Soldiers. You have a Snoper and need to enter Quietly through every 
 where.
  
  The Gameplay runs like Call Of Duty 4 and past Call Of Duty games. You have Aim Down The Sight, 
 Sprinting, Beautiful Graphics, and nice Ragdoll Effects. The game actually makes you feel that 
 you are in WWII at the moment. Voice Acting works great. Anger, Happiness, anything can be pointed 
 out with the Voice Acting. There are a Total of 15 Missions in the game. To complete all will take 
 about 4-6 hours. It's kind of short like Call Of Duty 4, but it's worth it. A new little game mode 
 was added this year. It is called, Nazi Zombies. After you finished the Final Mission in the game 
 and have watched all the credits, you go to a cutscene where you are on a Island after a Boat Explosion. 
 You see moving figures in the background with glowing eyes. Your sight comes back to normal, only 
 you to see Zombies running your way. 
  
  Nazi Zombies Gameplay starts out in a House with Wood on the Windows. You have a Pistol in hand 
 with carvings on weapons on the wall. As you gain points by Killing Zombies or fixing the Barracades, 
 you can get the weapons and get more ammo by pressing your USE button. It's all about Survival, 
 and it's great to play with a friend. 
  
  There is a Co-Op mode, but only two modes are in it. They are Nazi Zombies and Competitive Campaign. 
 Competitive Campaign is just playing throught the story with a friend and trying to see who can 
 get the most points at the end of a certain mission. You can also use Death Cards in Competitive 
 Co-Op,. Death Cards are like Cheats that are found throughout the Single Story.
  
  The Graphics are clearly amazing, but there are some glitches with the Graphics that re pretty 
 noticalble, like white, flickering areas. The game does use the Call Of Duty 4 engine, which makes 
 all the graphics forgivable.
  
  Multiplayer is really just the same thing as Call Of Duty four, only with the WWII maps. You still 
 have the Ranks and Custom Classes. That keeps it from getting a 10.
  
  Overall, the question is now, "Is Call Of Duty: World At War worth picking up?" Yes, it is. Even 
 with the Multiplayer having the same features as Call Of Duty 4, the other great features makes 
 this game an awsome pack. 
  
  Summary:
  + Tons of great features
  + Nazi Zombies
  + Engaging Campaign
  + Great Multiplayer
  + Great Co-Op
  + Great Graphics
  + Realistic 
 Gameplay.
  
  - Multiplayer plays the same.
  - Glitches
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: pj827
Rating: 6.5
Date: Dec 31, 2008 9:04 am PT
Review:  The entire game forces the player down a very narrow path, usually right into massive fire power. 
 No chance to flank or try something different - just charge into the fray then reload from the 
 last checkpoint. Check point save system is really OLD SCHOOL, I really REALLY hate that method 
 of saving games. 
  
  Except for the flame thrower (and it's useless) , the weapons are make believe. The ability to reload 
 the M-1 is not only unrealistic, it make this powerful weapon too powerful and too easy to use 
 - YOU CANNOT RELOAD THE M-1 IN REAL LIFE. Speaking of real life, the M-1 carbine was worthless 
 - no punch or knock down power, just lots of rounds downrange. 
  
  Absolutely no replay, the game and the foes are exactly the same every time through no matter what 
 difficulty level. The graphics are great and I love the ability to throw the enemies grenades back 
 at them. Tried that with COD 2 and blew myself up :) . 
  
  Can't comment on multi-player as I don't play on-line. I suspect that the game was designed for 
 the on-line community with the single player tossed in as an after thought. 
  
  Wished I'd waited til the game hit the bargain bin. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gruug
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 30, 2008 3:12 pm PT
Review:  CoD: WaW is not a bad game. It has some nice new features even though the engine is still that of 
 CoD4. Single player campaign is the usual "play as this guy for nation X" in individual battles 
 as in all the CoD games. Story is about what you would expect as you play the two character in 
 the Pacfic and the Russian front respectively. Only problem as with all CoD games is that the single 
 player mode is terribly short. Depending upon difficulty settings, you can finish the game in under 
 10 hours. But, that is almost acceptable as there are a couple of new features that attempt to 
 make up for it. 
  
  One new feature is the Co-op. Here the game really shines as you and up to three of your freinds 
 can redo most of the campaign missions. You can also add in a little competition with some scoring 
 options. And, if you beat the regular (not Co-op) game you can unlock a Co-op vs Zombie Nazi mode. 
 This last mode can be a lot of fun as you take on wave upon wave of fanatical Nazi Zombies that 
 are assualting you location. Each wave gets a little harder (of course) until you are finially 
 overwhelmed. It is a very addictive mode of play.
  
  Regular multiplay is pretty much the regular CoD fair. Maps are loosely based upon those you find 
 in the campaign for the most part. The one new feature is that on some maps you can enable tanks. 
 That's right tanks! Usually about 4 tanks are available to whoever can get to them first. You play 
 the tanks from a 3rd person or a "down the gun barrel" view. The tanks themselves are not fast 
 but do pack a huge punch. On top of this, you can have a find mount the top machine gun postion. 
 You need this as there are going to be people not in tanks running up to you with satchel charges 
 or firing bazookas at you you trying to take you out while other tanks are firing at you. 
  
  On the downside, there is one minor flaw in the game. In the afore mentioned Co-op mode player 
 playing from the same IP on through the same router will have problems connecting to the same Co-op 
 game. This means they can not play in LAN sessions or regualr Internet sessions. This is fine in 
 the regular multiplayer game but just not doable in Co-op. Hopefully, there will be a workaround 
 soon for this mode.
  
  All-in-all, CoD: WaW is a pretty good game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stscsssdsrv
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 30, 2008 10:32 am PT
Review:  I think that this is the best in series. Just a few things that make it not a 10. First the M1 
 carbine is listed as an M1A1, which is the paratrooper folding stock version. The M1 in game has 
 a full wooden stock. Secondly, the ability for server admins to make the point value for a kill 
 dang near anything they want it to be. Both of these should be addressed in the next patch. Other 
 than that I love the weapons and the detailed uniforms. The maps are well thought out and provide 
 a good variety of game play and terrain. In short, best in series IMHO. 
  I think that this is the best in series. Just a few things that make it not a 10. First the M1 
 carbine is listed as an M1A1, which is the paratrooper folding stock version. The M1 in game has 
 a full wooden stock. Secondly, the ability for server admins to make the point value for a kill 
 dang near anything they want it to be. Both of these should be addressed in the next patch. Other 
 than that I love the weapons and the detailed uniforms. The maps are well thought out and provide 
 a good variety of game play and terrain. In short, best in series IMHO. I said it twice because 
 I didn't have 800 characters worth of review 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hautarzt
Rating: 6.5
Date: Dec 30, 2008 8:19 am PT
Review:  IMHO:
  
  pro: crispy, amazingly sharp textures (i. e leather pouches on corpses etc.) , nice lighting effects 
 /sometimes. nice shadow use (sometimes) .
  
  con:
  graphically not really that outstanding. no real advancement to cod4 or any other ww2 game. HORRIBLE 
 weapon sounds (think toygun: "click click click") . also generally ALL sounds are louder than your 
 own weapon. 
  TERRIBLE use of music: ww2 with heavy-metal guitars? also the use of harsh film footage from real 
 ww2 mixed with fancypants 3D presentations (think: jeans commercial on mtv) is just tasteless. 
 "500.000 civilians got raped and shot" - wooosh - 3d text with sparkly stars and wild camerawork. 
 wtf?
  
  the leveldesign is so linear, you feel insulted. especially in the jungle maps, the "2 meter wide 
 corridor turns left 2x then 1x right, then a little open area and the level is over" is rather 
 annoying.
  
  missions are extremely short. missions/levels/maps are somewhat between 10 to 20 minutes playtime 
 each and there arent that many. 
  
  no cohesive story whatsoever. you swap between stalingrad/berlin (city ruins = the same) and pacific 
 missions (jungle/beach) . but who cares, right?
  
  compared to cod4, theres no real intense scripting at all. some german soldiers get shot here and 
 a house collapses there. wheres the wonderful "presidential execution" opening scene from cod4? 
 a wasted potential imo.
  
  sadest of all is the overall missed opportunity to create something impressive. i think MOH: airborne 
 was a way more intensive and stylistically thrilling game than this one. during the entire cod5 
 game, one gets the permanent impression that "another cliche scene" is sloppily implemented, following 
 another and another. (and we've all seen it before so much better than this)
  
  if you dont care about "immersion" or "story" or whatever fancy blabla designers like to shovel 
 us with. and you just really want a little boomboom kill kill, i think youre still better off with 
 MOH airborne. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MarkoCooleo
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 29, 2008 9:15 pm PT
Review:  I found cod 4 to be very fun online, very good game engine, but, honestly, it does get kinda boring 
 with the whole ww2 stuff. i mean, i was actually hoping for another modern day cod game, but with 
 a different storyline. also, this game is a lot less humorous than cod 4, and is based around the 
 whole (patriotism) concept. its ok, but its a downgrade when you compare it to call of duty 4. 
 There is a wide range of weapons, good graphics (9/10 for graphics) and excellent multiplayer. 
 Maybe i did not like this game as much as the previous cod because im a more modern day warfare 
 type person, but also because there is so many ww2 games out right now, that this just seemed like 
 another boring ww2 game. 
  
  Overall, call of duty is a good game, but i think that it is no match for cod 4, or the other fps 
 games (like crysis or far cry 2) . its good if your not bored from the ww2 games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PCbadjer
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 29, 2008 9:12 pm PT
Review:  There was really nothing new here to make me excited. Basically it's COD3 with some COD4 substance. 
 The graphics are basically ho hum by todays standards. I would have to say COD4 is still more graphically 
 superior in many aspects. Some of the lighting effects are nice but nothing special really. The 
 controls didn't seem very tight. The whole overpowered tank thing in multiplayer is lame. The dogs 
 are a little less annoying than the helicopter in COD4 which is a good thing. Alot of the weapons 
 sound and feel underpowered. I think I'm finally sick of WW2. They should have tried a futuristic 
 shooter with laser beams and jet packs and put WW2 out to pasture for awhile. I didn't hate the 
 game but was disappointed in the lack of originality and fine tuning. Time to put another 500+ 
 hours into COD4 and wait for COD6. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thrashmaster
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 28, 2008 1:18 am PT
Review:  The multiplayer in this game is even better then that of it's predacessors with all of the same 
 features that you love about the old CoDs some bonuses. The modding community adding more content 
 then ever, co-op gameplay, and new Zombie Mode make the multiplayer experience even more enjoyable 
 than ever. The single player however I think was a little bit lacking, I was never really sure 
 where we were in the game or what our ultimate objective was. The levels are still linear but feel 
 even more so than the others in the series in my opinion.
  
  GRAPHICS: 9.5
  For the relatively modest system requirements the graphics are as good as they can be. It is not 
 as detailed as FarCry2 or GTA4 but you can actually run this game on ultra settings without blowing 
 up your computer which is why I am rating it pretty high.
  
  CONTROLS: 8.5
  There seems to be a lot of keys that you need to end up using so you can sometimes find yourself 
 tripping over your own key bindings when you accidentally hit 5 and bring out your satchel charges 
 instead of hitting 4 and throwing a signal flare. Mostly not a problem, but enough to bring down 
 the score.
  
  GAMEPLAY: 9
  The objectives are very clear and you are never confused about what your doing both online and 
 offline. It just seems that some of the guns are not right for how they should be and unbalanced, 
 for example the PPSH seems to have a much higher accuracy in the game then the previous ones thus 
 making it a bit over powered.
  
  SOUND: 7.5
  I found myself getting a little tired of listening the this game after awhile. When I fire a round 
 in the tank or shoot my BAR, I just don't feel the impact of the weapon I am firing like I would 
 hope. Other then that I don't really have any complaints though.
  
  STORY: 7
  They tried to build on the characters that you play as in the story and try to make it interesting 
 but I never connected and felt emmersed like they had obviously intended. The characters seemed 
 very generic and with so many WW2 games out there you would think they would have tried a bit harder 
 to steer clear from that. But I never did get bored with going through the story though, the action 
 was fun to go through.
  
  MULTIPLAYER: 10
  Heart and soul of the Call of Duty games in my opinion and this one does not disappoint. with great 
 gametypes and an involved modding community it makes the game all that much better. And the newer 
 grenades add another layer of strategy to the game.
  
  FINAL: 8.6
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: bub70
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 27, 2008 2:36 pm PT
Review:  Single player is based on historical events. Actual footage used in cuts between levels, nice. 
 As far as single play length seems longer than cod 4. Only gripe with that game. 
  Co-op a very good option when it works. Problems hosting - joining other games. Hopefully it will 
 be fixed with a PATCH. Death cards can be used to make levels harder-easier, depending on what you 
 use. Zombie level is a nice extra. Not sure why all single player maps are not available?
  Multiplayer is average, lack of content, easy fix map pack. Another leveling reward based game !!! boo!!!! 
 anoying. No real inprovements since cod4 mw. Area specific damage would have been nice. Same old 
 options on multiplayer. Was hoping for something new. 
  Gameplay is solid, a few hiccups here and there. Mostly with sights and movement.
  Mods no opinion 
 game is unmoded.
  Overall a good fps, but when you put the name Call Of Duty on it my expectations are raised. As 
 of right now cod 4 is a better buy. Until all issues are resolved. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zacho123456
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 27, 2008 12:19 am PT
Review:  I am about halfway through the game, and find it to be fun, but not as engrossing or immersive 
 as Modern Warfare. The gameplay is fun, but the characters and story are not up to the standards 
 of Modern Warfare. 
  I would still recommend the game however, as it is fun, action packed and exciting.
  I do however 
 have a couple of issues with the game. First, it seems that the framerate tends to drop out occasionally 
 and leads to momentary freeze-ups. I have a fairly low end graphics card, but had to turn the settngs 
 way down to get a playable framerate, and I still get random momentary freeze-ups. The same computer 
 seemed to run Call of Duty 4 much more smoothly. Could just be my comp acting up or something, 
 but this is surprising.
  Secondly I am very disappointed that co-op mode requires 2 disks and 2 computers to play. I had 
 hoped to play with a friend on the same comp in co-op mode. This system seems to be the norm for 
 computer games (Red Alert 3 was this way too) , but consoles have allowed multiplayer on the same 
 console for years and I am sure that a computer could do the same. Needing two disks and 2 computers 
 powerful enough to play the game makes co-op mode nearly useless in my opinion.
  So in summary, a good but not great game that is not up to COD 4 standards in my opinion. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dfeam
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 26, 2008 2:22 pm PT
Review:  there are those guys who don't like to play ww2 games at all.
  there are those guys who are sick of ww2 games because they already played one or two.
  and there 
 are those guys who think ww2 games are the most intense games one can play.
  
  consider me the last type of guys.
  i played day of defeat since it came out, played red orchestra 
 sometime, played all the COD games available for pc, played day of defeat source ALOT (almost every 
 day for a few years to be precise) ... and then came COD 4 - the first non ww2-COD game.
  
  that game was a blast and i played the multiplayer-mode (especially headquarters) for hours and 
 hours. i enjoyed it so much... but still there was this one thought: how awesome would it be to 
 play this game in a ww2 setting?
  
  so, then a few weeks ago came COD 5 and COD 5 is exactly what i dreamed of: COD 4 in a ww2 setting. 
 i hear people complaining about the absence of innovation in this game... SCREW THEM, if you enjoyed 
 COD 4 and wished to play it as a ww2 game THIS IS YOUR GAME.
  
  the singleplayer mode is kind of silly because of really stupid ai, linear leveldesign and annoying 
 grenades which will kill you quite often so that you have to play some parts a few times until 
 you pass through them.
  
  if i would have to give the sp-mode a rating it would be 4/10.
  audio and visuals are great, but as i said, ai is stupid and "random" or unfair death even on the 
 easiest setting is really really annoying.
  i only played the single-player campaign to unlock the zombie map for singleplayer which is awesome 
 (especially in coop-mode)
  
  but this rating is focusing on the mp-game (which is what you will end up playing after beating 
 the sp anyway) . and all i can say is: YES YES YES. everything is great, the mp-maps are absolutely 
 stunning and vehicles are back! couldn't ask for more :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Pulfasonic
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 26, 2008 12:43 pm PT
Review:  
  What can I say? If you've ever played a Call of Duty game you know exactly what you're getting 
 if you buy this game. World War 2, linear story, and a man that gives you orders while he does 
 nothing. That's not to say there isn't anything new however. Developer Treyarch mixed things up 
 a bit this time around and managed to give what some might consider to be a dying genre a new lick 
 of paint.
  
  The campaign throws you in with the Americans and later lets you play with the Russians. It's not 
 quite as stereotypical as other WW2 shooters have been in the past as this time around you're pushing 
 through lush tropics while fighting Japanese as the Americans. On the final push of the war, you 
 spend most of the Russian missions advancing into Berlin to end the war. That's not all that's 
 changed though. Along with the usual staple of weapons, the newest edition of the flamethrower 
 makes for a great time burning people alive. Of course if you don't fancy that theres plenty of 
 other weapon classifications to chose from. The campaign is linear and although its short it still 
 felt as if it dragged on towards the end. 
  
  WW2 wasn't a laugh and this game heavily supports this idea with extreme language and intense gore. 
 Even in multiplayer you can find your legs getting blown of by a stray bullet from a high powered 
 machine gun. Speaking of multiplayer the online component of this game greatly adds to the overall 
 package and can be accessed straight away. If you've played Call of Duty 4 you'll know how the 
 system works. In addition to the usual variation of weapon perks a new Vehicle perk has been added 
 as vehicles have also been included in the multiplayer. Prestige returns and the multiplayer maps 
 are much larger than that of COD4. The rewards are still available for anybody who gets a certain 
 amount of kills in a row and they have been suitably changed to keep with the WW2 aesthetic. Overall 
 though the formula hasn't changed much and if your one of the people who are starting to drift 
 away from WW2 shooters it won't be long before you're leaving the multiplayer behind. 
  
  Call of Duty World at War tries hard to create connections with certain key characters but by the 
 end of the game I really didn't care who lived or died. In this aspect the game fails to create 
 a believable story and characters but to be fair this has never been a strong point for the COD 
 franchise. 
  
  Visually the game is a little of a let down. Running on the COD4 engine I expected better and the 
 colours just aren't as vivid and lush as you would expect being in a tropical jungle. The colour 
 palette is very monotone and if you continue with the campaign you'll be disappointed to hear that 
 the settings don't change much. If anything, the game just gets more muddy and rainier as it reaches 
 its closing chapters. That's not to say the setting isn't believable but it does break from the 
 experience slightly. 
  
  So should you buy it? If you aren't fed up of WW2 shooters and need to satisfy that thirst for 
 blood then I'd highly recommend it. However if you're just buying this game for the single player 
 or don't plan to spend much time in the multiplayer then give it a skip. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: theafiguy
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 26, 2008 4:42 am PT
Review:  I was skeptical about playing this newest version of Call of Duty. The fact that it had gone back 
 to the WWII thing really scared me. I was surprised at just what I found underneath the seemingly 
 similar faces.
  
  First thing is first, the tone of this game is much more mature than even COD4. Everything is bleak 
 and the last few missions in the game really make you feel like you're immersed in the game. From 
 what everyone is shouting during the game to the way the levels are absolutely murdered by gunfire 
 and explosions, Treyarch did this one right. 
  
  The weapons in the game all feel like they have a good amount of balance, on and offline. Rifles 
 are definitely the best weapon to choose from for most of the campaign and several of the multiplayer 
 maps. Snipers are very accurate and very powerful, which is good because they are slightly difficult 
 to use. I personally feel that the BAR is a little overpowered, but that's just my opinion.
  
  Finding servers as of right now in the game is a little difficult if you haven't grabbed the 
 patch 1.1, which wasn't announced unless you're following the game. The multiplayer is basically 
 just COD4's with new skins and vehicles. Is that enough for some people? Of course. Is it enough 
 for me? Yea.
  
  The controls are fairly well done, but the grenade button is in a seemingly odd place for me, still. 
 I never liked used the "G" button to throw grenades. One thing is absolutely definite about World 
 At War, it's anti-hack program is amazing. PB does suck most of the time, but the way it works 
 now is just awesome. I didn't like it but I did get kicked from a game for being 12-0 within 3 
 minutes. That just shows though that PB is definitely looking for the hacks and trying to prevent 
 them this time around.
  
  For anyone looking for a new WWII game or to upgrade from Day of Defeat: Source, this is the place 
 to go. Great campaign (Online Co-Op too) and great multiplayer, good job Treyarch, you didn't screw 
 this one up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kokobil
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 25, 2008 6:36 pm PT
Review:  Call of Duty World at war is an incredible game. It really gives you the fieeling of being part 
 of the dramatic events at world war II and it travels you in many different situatuions like being 
 an american or a russian soldier. Fighting from inside a tank, or being a gunner in a bomber. You 
 will be using snipers (actually there is a mission that you have to be one) bazookas mashine guns, 
 the legendary M1 and other nice stuff. Each weapons has it's unique feeling and although you will 
 prefer some over others everyone of them gives the game a different feeling. The missions have 
 variety and you will never feel that you are doing something you did before. 
  
  PROS
  
  The graphics are very nice although to me they didn't seem more impressive that Call of Duty 
 4. 
  
  Sound is very good the sounds of battle feel real as do the the guns sound effects. The music helps 
 in immersivity too. 
  
  The gameplay has variety the guns are well simulated the physics of the butllets are well made 
 and there is the very helpfull grenade indicator (unique feature in CoD series) there is no save 
 but the autosave feature is very well made. It saves the game frequently and in the right places
 
  
  CONS
  
  The tank driving part is very arcade-like but still fun.
  Japanese soldiers need double the bullets the germans need to die but it adds flavor in the missions 
 against the Japs.
  
  After great frustrations i had with games like Far Cry 2 or GTA IV this game seems to me as the 
 most fun game of this december. Try it and take my word you will have much fun :-) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FatPipe
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 24, 2008 10:28 am PT
Review:  Graphics  Nice, in fact, some of the environments were quite nice. But as for physics, and destructible 
 environmentsnot so much. So from a visual, and overall feel, the game was well done, but from 
 a fun, lets just blow something up because I am in the mood aspect, the game fell short. Kudos 
 for no crashes running full tilt on my pc, and no bugs to speak of, so although simplistic, at 
 least it held up.
  
  Gameplay  Well, after oh probably hundreds of WWII games what can you do to spice it up?? Throw 
 in some hardcore stats and pictures about death. Although definitely graphic at times, the stats 
 and death tolls definitely made me think twice about this whole WWII thing that has more or less 
 become a gaming platform rather than a world changing event (at least for some) . Nostalgia aside, 
 the gamplay was realistic, and I actually enjoyed the fact that ammo wasn't laying everywhere, 
 and that I actually had to think about shooting, or the gun of my choice. Running out of bullets 
 is not something I am used to, but I have to admit, having to think about my choices was a nice 
 touch. Controls were so-so, but smooth and responsive. Key mapping was an issue for me and my Reclusa 
 keyboard, and not worth going into, but worth noting.
  
  Storyline  Well done, and pretty darn good voice acting to boot. It wasn't Mass Effect type caliber, 
 but way about the standard. The lack of progression with my character development could have been 
 a little better, and after saving the lives of all those people, time and time again, it would 
 have been nice to receive a promotion ;) 
  
  Overall  For what is left of this genre, I give COD credit for being creative. And although short 
 lived (probably 10-12 hours for me) I rate this game where it should benot great, but it didn't 
 suck either.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ckarthik17
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 23, 2008 8:46 am PT
Review:  This is the best World War II game i have ever played, cinematic game play is superb. Every gamer 
 should try this game... I am sure you will not uninstall this game without completing it..
  
  In my COD: Modern Warfare review i said "I think even COD: World of War will not be up to this." 
 But now i say "Sorry for my words". COD : WAW rocks similar to COD : MW.
  
  Also in my previous review of COD : MW i said "Call of Duty 4: Modern Warfare is developed by Infinity 
 Ward. i am waiting for the next Call of Duty series (i think COD 6) developed by the same Infinity 
 Ward."
  
  But developers of COD WAW, treyarch also proved their strength.
  
  Hats off Treyarch..
  
  Because the fight between Treyarch and infinity ward to give best COD, 
 we gamers are lucky....
  
  Another must play COD...
  Waiting for COD 6 :-) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zweh5
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 23, 2008 7:28 am PT
Review:  *sigh* what a disappointed, it is too short i can finish it less than 6 hours when i play hardened. 
 i dont want to play veteran because the AI just aim to you and shoot to your head that is unfair.
 
  
  the campaign for soviet is begin in stalingrad and end in berlin, just that? that is not fun. soviet 
 campaign is like a "bonus" campaign in this game. im not happy with the us campaign too, i thought 
 there is a battle of iwo jima, guadalcanal, and etc.
  
  It is maybe the best Call of Duty ever (for WW2) , a lot of weapon, both machine guns can be mount 
 and dismount, nice graphic (as usual) , and there is a mission you become a gunner same as Call 
 of Duty Modern Warfare but this one is better.
  
  there is an extra level at the end of the game and it is fun, shooting nazi zombies and can "buy" 
 a weapon and it is better than CoD Modern Warfare.
  
  anyway, this one is better than Medal of Honor: Pacific Assault 
  
  here are my rating for 
 this game:
  sound and graphic ---- 1.5 / 2
  AI ---- 1.5 / 2
  game control ---- 2 / 2
  gameplay ---- 2 / 2
  storyline ---- 1 / 2 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sharier
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 23, 2008 6:26 am PT
Review:  What made Call of Duty a hit series? Intense gameplay, fantastic graphics and the story flow is 
 very very addictive. One of the interesting aspect of its game design had been that you are forced 
 into a situation of intense battle and you must fight your way through amid limited options. You 
 will not be able to save the game in between. That's the game's reward, and that's the punishment.
 
  Given this background, anyone who has played COD and COD2 can not forget some intense battle situations. 
 Especially the end battles of those two games were impossibly intense, hard -- yet amazingly playable 
 (I often shelve games that feel too hard at certain points) . The COD4 and COD5 (this one) mellowed 
 down a bit in the area of being impossibly intense and hard -- yet they live up to the expectation.
 
  First thing first, COD5 comes with superb graphics -- with environment so detailed out that you 
 won't feel like exiting the game. If you got a cool graphics card, this is one of the games you 
 should look at to marvel.
  COD5 depicts more violence up close that I did not see in the previous CODs. Death is part of any 
 war game. But games are games -- I perceive dead bodies as part of the game environment. In this 
 game, this violence is shown closely -- like seeing the Japanese slit the throat of your comrade. 
 
  In tradition with its past games, the game jumps into action pretty quick and within few minutes 
 you will submerge in the COD fever. The battles in this game involve Japanese and Russian territory. 
 So you get diverse setting -- island on one side, ravaged citiscape on the other. In terms of weapon, 
 you will intensely enjoy the flame-thrower -- which, in terms of concept, is one of the most sadistic 
 weapons of war. 
  The game has a lot of battle episodes, each offering different interesting experience. And yet, 
 I felt that it was not enough. When the game ended -- the end came too quick -- quicker than BIA: 
 Hell's Highway. In fact, I felt that I played half of the game. I have not tried playing it again. 
 Next time, I will play it in the hardest mode there is. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RedJoseph
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 17, 2008 10:10 am PT
Review:  From my point of view Call of Duty: World at War is the best COD so far and it bests MOHA by far 
 at everything. The graphic scenery is breathtaking most of the game specially when you fight with 
 the marines in the Pacific, where everything looks very real and it even scares you sometimes mostly 
 when certain ambushes break out of the blue. The AI acts very well to the environment an to any 
 actions you enteerprise, so close to real soldiers that sometimes iy gets on you nerves because 
 you don't expect such lively reactions from them. Throwing back grenades actually works just fine, 
 unlike MOHA where you get the sign you can do it but the only thing that happens is that it explodes 
 in your hand. As a closure i would like to say that COD 5 is great from every point of view the 
 only problem about this game is the simple fact that it; s too short since WW2 has already been 
 explored from every single perspective. For those out to shoot indiscriminately i really suggest 
 you play even though it will be over before you know it, there are always higher difficulty levels 
 you can play on and that will make it feel longer 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mudcaked
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 17, 2008 7:11 am PT
Review:  The Call of Duty franchise has once again returned to it's World War II roots. This release pays 
 respect to the Pacific Theatre of Operations and delves once again back into the major conflicts 
 of the Eastern Front.
  
  The Single player storyline follows both a US Marine and a Soviet Soldier. The campaign is played 
 out jumping back and forth between the two. While this serves to break up the action and avoid 
 tedium, it also works to undo any potential story continuum. The single player campaign is of a 
 roughly equivalent size to Modern Warfare. The US campaign starts off with a dramatic prisoner 
 rescue on Makin Atoll, proceeding onto Peleliu and onto the home Japanese Islands. The Soviet campaign 
 will start off in the now all to familiar battle of Stalingrad, progressing west through Seelow 
 and into Berlin itself for the closing moments of the European war. 
  
  Both sides of the campaign attempt to recreate the brutal realities that occurred in both the Pacific 
 and along the Eastern Front, prisoners will be executed among other little guilty pleasures, by 
 both allied and axis soldiers, as the campaign progresses. The voice acting is done particularly 
 well, but little will remain with the player once the campaign has been completed. This storyline 
 could have been more memorable as some of the environments and set peices are quite brilliant in 
 their own right.
  
  The multiplayer is nothing short of what you would expect and is the kicker in adding so much more 
 replayability to this title. It's a very similar deal to Modern Warfare including weapon and talent 
 upgrades and customizations that will become available as the player progresses. A nice innovation 
 is adding the use of deployable bipods for support weapons. Bipods will restrict the players arc 
 but will alow the player to be much more effective at mowing down opponents within a killing zone. 
 There are plenty of weapons to choose from, including the flame thrower which can be unlocked at 
 the final rank. A major addition to multiplayer for this title is the ability to use tanks on some 
 of the larger maps. To supplement this nicely treyarch have provided extra talents that can be 
 used to dish out misery and carnage from these steel beasts.
  
  Overall this is a worthwhile title in it's own right, however overshadowed by Modern Warfare it 
 maybe. If your a fan of the Call of Duty series, I believe you'll still take away enjoyment from 
 this title as Treyarch have pulled off a relatively impressive work, even if it seems to be carried 
 by Modern Warfare. The sound and visuals are what you would expect from the Modern Warfare engine. 
 This title is worthwhile in it's own right for the multiplayer and new maps will only add to this 
 should they be released. Definately worth a shot.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rosbjerg
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 17, 2008 6:24 am PT
Review:  When the Call of Duty franchise moved to newer grounds in COD4, I remember quite a few was worried 
 that the premise of the whole series would be compromised. As I'm sure most will agree with me, 
 that was not the case.
  
  We saw the same concerns about this release, just the other way around - could Treyarch handle 
 a return? In short - yes they could.
  
  One of the things that struck me with the game is the darkness of the war it portrays, we are launched 
 into a bloody struggle from the second we start the campaign and are clawing at straws simply to 
 stay ahead. The primus motor of the COD series is the frantic action and here World at War excels!
 
  
  What will you put you off at first is the familiarity of the setting and the predictability of 
 the battles - the way the game drives forward is really just a rehash of the previous WW2 titles. 
 But the excellent visuals, designs and "briefings" prior to each mission are as crisp and exciting 
 as a topnotch Hollywood production. This is in itself almost a reason to buy the game in my humble 
 opinion, but the missions are exciting and fresh, although we've seen the premise quite a few times 
 before.
  
  Mostly World at War will appeal to fans of the genre, but anyone interested in fast paced and intelligent 
 gameplay will also find an enjoyable time here.
  
  When I choose to say that the game grows on you I imply that you will most likely feel saturated 
 with WW2, but give it a chance, this game will seduce you and pull you into on of the darkest chapters 
 of our history and you will have to claw your way out yourself. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Fubydoo
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 16, 2008 5:42 pm PT
Review:  If you like WorldWar II type games.. and Multiplayer.. this is a MUST HAVE!
  
  Continuing on with the COD4 engine there are some sweet additions to this version.. maps are larger... 
 maps are better looking!
  
  The guns all have their own flavor to them.. used for what they are intended makes the game that 
 much more enjoyable. Bouncing Betties are the bomb! An earlier version of claymores. Flame thrower 
 used at the right distance is terrifying to the oppossing forces.. Really good sound effect in 
 full 3D so get those headphones on! Battle Chatter is a bit adult oriented but hey, its rated for 
 adults!! One of the best Multiplayer games I have ever played.. well worth the time investing and 
 learninghow to play! Mapping tools released so you can make even more ! Did I mention Co-Op Zombie 
 maps? what is not to like!!
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: chilipepperman
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 15, 2008 7:22 pm PT
Review:  i didnt expect anything that i didnt get from CoD 5. Good graphics, relatively solid gameplay, 
 and the story is one that everyone knows. it doesnt excel or really add anything new to the genre, 
 like at least MoH: Airborne added some cool upgrades for your weapons and air-dropping. 
  
  Graphics
  Pretty much, the graphics in CoD 5 are like CoD 4 with a little more detail and relflections, 
 but besides that it is exactly the same.
  
  Gameplay
  CoD 5 is a grittier, harder, more fast paced version of CoD 4. i found that there were many tense 
 moments when i didnt know if i would make it out alive, which makes for a very tense, and kill-one 
 by one kind of game. it sounds really great on my 5.1 speakers, and i felt really immersed throughout 
 the whole game.
  
  Story
  You should know how a WWII FPS ends.
  
  CoD 5 doesnt do anything new, and the gameplay is more similar to CoD 2 than CoD4. overall though, the 
 game is a hard, good-looking, gritty shooter, but PLEASE people. enough of WWII. do some other 
 war, like i said in my airborne review. Now, im gonna go try out that zombie nazis mode, see how 
 it is, and get CoD 5 off my HD to play fallout 3.
  Peace 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Wings_008
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 15, 2008 3:12 pm PT
Review:  Call of duty world at war well what can i say its THE best WW2 i played even better than my old 
 favorite Call of duty 2, but i wont say its the best in the series.
  The game have the best sound effects ever, graphics are jaw dropping and the game play is intense 
 and never repetitive that will keep you in your nerves , however it lacks the action its predecessor 
 had, the fast pace action and fun weapons the sharp feeling and texture on modern warfare is all 
 replaced with deeper and more emotional campaign.
  Even more the game isn't as smooth as predecessor even they share the same Engine, WaW requires 
 fast engine to run sharp and smooth.
  But it has the best game play ever you fire a cannon from an airplane ,drive a tank, even AAA!, 
 so its still explosive, so its for the people seeking an original WWII game with Historical accuracy 
 and intense campaign and realism such as the bullet impact that displays arm torn apart, heads 
 flown, and open chest due to bullet penetration and exit.
  i will recommend this game but i don't think that it fits every persons taste 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HiddenSanctum
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 15, 2008 3:02 pm PT
Review:  Graphics 8/10:
  The graphics are decent, there not much to say about this. Frame rate is much more decent than 
 NFSU. There is virtually no lag (Or I'd probably be dying every other second  _ ) on my ATI HD 
 3650.
  
  Gameplay 8/10:
  The CoD series always has a certain difficulty to it, this game is the same. If your new to FPS 
 games I'd suggest you play on the easiest level and even on that you'll probably find yourself 
 dying multiple times. There are many guns to choose from (I won't list them cause I can't remember 
 exactly what the names were) . Sniping and flamethrowers are the most entertaining in my opinion.
 
  
  SPOILER ALERT!! (if you do not wished to read please continue to the plotline section)
  
  Okay so after you beat all of CoD5 you get this bonus mission which is Nazi zombies!! Very 
 entertaining and keep you on your feet. The highest I've gotten is 8 rounds ^^;; Basically you 
 are trapped inside a house with windows battered up with wood. Zombies try to tear down the wood 
 and try to get into the house. You get points for fixing the windows and you get points for shooting 
 off zombies (depending on where you hit them you get more points) . There are various guns you can 
 buy with the money you earn by killing or fixing. And there are also places you can unlock. Oh 
 btw did I mention the zombies quantity increases as well as their speed? Fun fun fun!
  
  Plotline 7/10:
  Plotline is typical WWII story. You plan as an American soldiers on the east 
 front lines and a Russian solider on the west. You either fight through Japanese soldiers (in which 
 most are suicidal BANZAI soldiers that pop out of nowhere and stabs u to death) or you fight the 
 Germans (Which in my opinion are much easier to kill) .
  
  Sound 7/10:
  Nothing much to say about sound. Most of the time all I hear is BANZAI!!
  
  Value 8/10:
  
 I think this is a decent game to get, The Bonus Mission has enough replay value as it is. You should 
 definitely try it if your a fan of the CoD series! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: a_noobi
Rating: 5.5
Date: Dec 15, 2008 6:22 am PT
Review:  This review is for causal players ONLY!
  
  The voice cast is fine in both solo and multiplayer but the online mutliplayer ranking system and 
 upgrades is purely for nerds, not average players friendly, discouraging for causal players.
  
  First, the fast pace stabbing attack seems too unrealistic and again a fan boy feature.
  
 Second, causal players as said would be greatly disadvantaged due to absence of upgrades.
  Apart, the maze liked maps take average players some considerable amount of time to figure out 
 and to deal with the camp sites, this is not a big problem as it exists in most fps but its just 
 bit annoying every time you walk in and get shot right away.
  
  The zombie mode seems to be a makeup for that. Id say I've paid about right for the single player 
 campaign, particularly the voice cast, zombie and coop.
  
  Conclusion, don't waste too much time on multiplayer mode unless you are going to invest some reasonable 
 time in doing all those nerd unlocks. Go for solo and coop. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Vexx88
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 14, 2008 9:19 am PT
Review:  CoD5 goes back to WWII fighting Hitler and the Japanese and such on the Alies you play as Private 
 Miller and for Russia you play as Private Pelo.... Ill go by his first name Demetri his last name 
 is hard to spell and I dont feel like looking it up at the moment.
  
  There are 15 campaign missions which after your done with you unlock Nazi Zombie mode (which is 
 officially the last 16th campaign mission) It basically Horde in one room but unlike Horde in gears 
 of War 2 its never ending. The campaign is fun and on Veteran its hard as ever. a good assortment 
 of weapons but not nearly as well variety of weapons that 4 had you will mainly use Bolt action 
 rifles and (semi automatic) rifles. Online Co-op supports up to 4 players which works very well. 
 Multiplayer if you played CoD4 its exactly the same except WWII The maps are good but at least 
 for me is kind of ruined with the inclusion of Tanks on 4 of the maps. I just don't like tanks 
 even if you get bored of the campaign and Nazi zombie getting to all 10 prestige's and with the 
 level cap being 65 now instead off Level 55 will keep you busy. CoD5 is fun and I enjoyed it more 
 than other shooters this year. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gemyjam
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 13, 2008 4:28 pm PT
Review:  single player mode:
  ok. every thing is allright but it need more develop in I. A stuff.
  thats clearly appear in japanees soldiers they have an object is that to kill you and they wantnot 
 to survive ,
  and some times you can see soldiers stand in front of you and did not do any thing to you only 
 he just stand ; he didnot wont to harm you :)
  except that the game maps is so fine and i like the multiways in the same area it is so good.
 
  
  the music is so fine except some tracks its not belong to the game events.
  
  there is no dust on the graphics it the FINEST graphic ihave ever seen in cod series its better 
 than cod4
  every thing is damn good on it, lighting , reflexes , water , sky : its just abig deal so BIG THANKS 
 ACTIVISION .
  
  storyline works great with gameplay .
  
  its nice step to add co-op in call of duty series its very wonderfull.
  
  multiplayer mode 
 :
  like the old one cod4 its great fun but right now we need more maps and more covers maps.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Frantz22
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 12, 2008 10:50 am PT
Review:  If you have played the other games in the Call of Duty series, this one isn't much different. It's 
 a beautiful and immersive game, however it's very short. They try to lengthen it by having two 
 different stories: one as a Russian private and one as an American. World at War does a good job 
 at trying to attach you to other characters in the game, giving it a more dramatic feel. Modern 
 Warfare, however, did a better job at this. The attention to the detail in this game is intriguing 
 as well. The sounds are realistic. If you have a good sound system, this game will take full advantage 
 of it. The shortness of the game can be made up somewhat by the replayable value that this game 
 presents. Overall, it is an addicting game, but needs to be a little longer. It is definitely worth 
 playing, especially if you were a fan of the previous games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: _FORCE_96
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 11, 2008 12:49 pm PT
Review:  Call of Duty: World at War is arguable the greatest WW2 FPS out there. You get to play as US Pacific 
 Marines and the Red Army. Excellent design, addictive gameplay, lovely graphics and nice extras 
 make this a top game and definitly one to buy.
  
  Firstly, the campaign. It takes you through the last days of WW2 as a American Marine and a Russian 
 soldier. Activision and treyarch have done a nice job of finding areas of WW2 that have not already 
 been played to death in other games. Yes the Russians have been done, but it was unique in that 
 it covers the push of the Red Army towards Berlin and the eventual destruction of the Reich. It 
 is very fun to play with fast paced and very brutal, gritty action. From burning banzai screaming 
 japs to silently sniping smoking Germans, the campaign offers variety at every twist and turn. 
 Even though it will take you probably around 5-6 hours to complete, like Cod4, there is a lot to 
 see and do in that short amount of time.
  
  Secondly, mulitplayer. One thing straight, the multiplayer in Cod5 is, in my opinion, not as good 
 as Cod4. This comes down to poor respawn points so you are constantly respawned in really random 
 places and personally, terrible server connection. Now you could say this is down to my internet 
 but cod4 works just fine and cod5 has a really hard time of finding me a decent number of servers 
 to play on. Overall, the weapons and new perks are fun to use aswell as very nice maps with drivable 
 vehicles which make for a solid multiplayer experience.
  
  The extras are also excellent. The co-op campaign is very fun as you can compete in your favourite 
 levels and have a separate set of challenges to complete. Probably my favourite feature is NAZI 
 ZOMBIES which you unlock after you have completed the campaign. This is available in co-op and 
 in single player as adds for an original, highly addictive experience which is a major merit to 
 this game.
  
  Overall Cod: WaW is definitly worth buying, for cod fans and newcomers with an addictive campaign 
 with replay value in collecting death cards, strong multiplayer and quality extras like Nazi Zobies 
 which tips of a great gaming experience. Just because it's WW2 doesn't mean its an inferior. Well 
 worthj the buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: -FAmas-
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 10, 2008 11:17 pm PT
Review:  Being made by treyarch I expected this game to suck. But its actually fantastic. There are still 
 little things you'll notice where you'll say to yourself, "InfinWd wouldn't have had/done that", 
 but the game is very impressive.
  
  Pros
  +Way nicer graphics. Playing COD4 back and forth with this really shows how much more beautiful 
 WAW is. Still its not by that much, but I would say its noticeable.
  +Molotov's!
  +GORE GORE GORE. WAW has beautiful gore effects. Sniping has never been so satisfying. Grenades 
 send enemies (and fellow soldiers, flying at you with their limbs blown off) . I really hope Infinity 
 Ward goes for the gore in Modern Warfare II. COD4 was like shooting dummies. It was like a sparkfest 
 in battles. Less spark, more gore. Actually the sparks were fairly realistic, but If there was 
 more gore and blood then the sparks wouldn't seem as obnoxious.
  +Great opera menu tune
  +Much more hectic and brutal than past COD's.
  
  Cons
  -environments aren't as destructible 
 as COD4, destructible I mean like if you run in a room with radios, and other various items to 
 tables, you can't shoot them off like COD4. In COD4 basically everything could be affected by bullets. 
 Just makes it less immersive. 
  -the quasi rock music seen in some of the russian campaign kind of sucked
  -Flamethrower was 
 kind of cheap, they seemed to suggest its use a little too much.
  -Not enough of the Thompson
  -Gunship level was kind of lame.
  -No Okinawa D-Day? COD so far 
 has avoided Normandy, Saving private ryan-esque type level. COD2 had a minor one, but it was hardly 
 a deadly beach. Lets make another Stalingrad.
  -Veterans mode is really cheap where basically all they do is give the enemies an unlimited number 
 of annoying grenades that they throw obnoxiously where you find yourself constantly running back 
 and forth.
  
  Overall Treyarch did a good job with this. Its not as artistic and polished as an Infinity Ward 
 game and seems more aimed at intensity and eye candy. Still not as good as COD: UO and COD2, but 
 still a blast to play through. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RogueAngel12
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 10, 2008 10:45 am PT
Review:  The game is great. The patch and function of the game as for 'loading'
  and connection issues. Well, thats something else to talk about. I was having
  problem's like 
 a lot of other ppl were. Fiddling around with everything. Everything from my spec's of my CPU, GPU, HD, MEM, PSU 
 & MOBO. As well as the spec's of the game; for game play. Try'in to get that frame rate up.
  
  Driving me nut's'it was.. Long story short. #1. The game was locking-up at start-up of game. 
 Some time's i would have to re-start. (it would lock my comp) or log-off to free up my comp. Even 
 after patch was installed. I was connecting to servers. But the computer would still lock every 
 now and then. #2. Even after the patch installed; i could'nt get into COOP play of the game. And 
 some times in Multiplay my PB 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hayk
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 9, 2008 3:14 pm PT
Review:  Its been a while since we've seen World war 2 in the call of duty franchise. Call of duty 2 was 
 a great game, call of duty 3 doesn't exist ( on PC) , call of duty 4 was good, but not really a 
 call of duty game. Out of all the REAL call of duty games (call of duty 1, 2, and now, 5) , This 
 game is by far the best and most memorable. It runs very smoothly on most pc's, better than cal 
 of duty 4, WHILE LOOKING a lot better too. Ive played MANY fps games, this is one of the best ever. 
 
  My current playing list is far cry to 
  Call of duty 5
  Crysis warhead
  Fallout 3
  
  What i LOVE about this game is that it is more exiting and upbeat than any of the others I 
 mentioned. Fallout 3, farcy 2, and crysis are all more story driven action games, while call of 
 duty 5 is a straight up action fps, and blast to play.
  thank you, Activision. do not underestimate this game because of Pro-Reviewers. there are to much 
 politics to rely on them. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Slow-Justice
Rating: 4
Date: Dec 9, 2008 9:59 am PT
Review:  The maps are pretty small and with the makers of the game messing everything up the hoped for mods 
 are not happening, One of the reasons for buying this game was that cod used to have a longer life 
 than a lot of the games because of mod and map makers made the game playable for a long time after. 
 Activision must have decided that it was time to make money and run with this game, they used a 
 tweaked cod4 engine threw 13 small maps together and charged full price for a updated game. I have 
 played all the cod games for the computer and liked them all, but I don't think I will buy any 
 more of them. Like most greedy companies they ended up screwing their best customers. 
  
  One of the big problems is that you shoot someone and they spawn right behind you and shoot you.. 
 then you spawn behind them and they shoot you again. I guess this is supposed to rank you up faster.. 
 lol.
  
  If you haven't got the game... wait till it hits the cheap seats 
::::::

::::::
UserName: takafujimura
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 8, 2008 6:17 am PT
Review:  I started the Call of Duty series with the Modern Warfare on XBOX 360 and PC and have not played 
 Medal of Honor series either.
  
  So with that said, this COD World at War was amazing for me. 
  
  The levels are obviously at 
 bit fast compared to previous games that I have played. But they are intense and your team does 
 not help you much. COD 4 might have been better slightly. 
  
  The cut scenes are great with the old films mixed with Treyarch's version of their World War II 
 story. (so if you are a big history person or a WWII fan, you will enjoy it)
  
  Graphics are better and improved from COD 4 but the gameplay is exactly the same with WWII weapons. 
 
  
  The violence level is about COD 4 level except there is a bit more limbs falling off and people 
 burning alive. Grenade or any explosion will blow off part of your body. If you call that "more 
 bloody," then I guess its more bloody. 
  
  The multiplayer maps are HUGE. COD 4 maps are tiny compared to these maps. Vehicles are introduced 
 now and so if you are a COD fan who liked HALO because of the vehicles... well, here is your COD 
 version of vehicles. Dogs replaced helicopters. In my opinion, dogs are quite effective because 
 you have to shoot them (which gives away your position) and sometimes you get swarmed with two 
 or three of them. 
  
  The multiplayer is more fast-paced. It seems that it takes less bullets to kill people and they 
 die easier. COD 4 perks are back with different names. 
  
  World at War multiplayer seems a bit harder than COD 4 Modern Warfare because of the unfamiliar 
 guns and the enemy is harder to see in these maps due to camoflage and more places to take cover 
 and hide. 
  
  Bottomline: Treyarch did a good job with this one. I never played COD 3 so I do not know their 
 past reputation. It looks like they are a good team and they have made the BEST WWII first person 
 shooter game in recent history. 
  
  With all the criticism about Treyarch and lowered expectations, this game is easily the most underrated 
 game of the year. 
  
  If you want the best, this is the best for WWII. Many servers up with many people playing. 
  
 
  Last of all... NAZI ZOMBIE MODE!! 
  
  
  Most Underrated Game of the Year! 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: takkun2021
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 8, 2008 5:47 am PT
Review:  Made by the same creators of the 3rd installment to the series, I did not expect this game to be 
 anything but a letdown. Surprisingly enough, I actually enjoyed the majority of this game. The 
 game may begin with a predisposition of being disappointing, but it shows that it can hold it's 
 own in the series.
  
  There are some hardware issues, but nothing too drastic and the AI is nothing really impressive. 
 Using the CoD4 engine, this game is pretty to look at, but did not use the engine to the same potential 
 that CoD4 did. The weapons and story are mostly accurate to the time period and setting, but still 
 had a few inaccuracies to work through. As with any CoD game, there was the daunting (at times, 
 annoying) waves of enemies that do not seize until moving forwards, which can seem impossible. 
 
  
  Good visuals, good story, and decent gameplay draw you in to finish the game. Also, the flamethrower 
 is pretty damn fun!
  
  The best part of this game comes after beating it: A WWII Zombie survival mini-game; that's right, 
 WWII zombies. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HAMODA
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 7, 2008 11:04 pm PT
Review:  Ok here we go , First of all lets start with the well designed menus and music (not the one in-game) 
 and background effects that Call of Duty always had in its series for PC (not talking about PS3 
 or Xbox because i never played those) . About the Campaign what can i say , its new indeed , it 
 has new elements , new graphics , groundbreaking almost ; but the sacrifice on this is the fact 
 that its too short. I managed to Finnish the game 3 times , took me 4 hours to do it on easy difficulty 
 a bit more on regular and max 6 hours - 9 hours on hard difficulty because you kinda die a lot 
 hehe.
  So i must say from my own point of view that I'd rate the single player with a squeezed 8 and that 
 mostly for the beautiful graphics and storyline that it offers (like on the Russian part when it 
 resembles a movie i can barely remember in name , with sniping on key moments like when planes 
 fly above , moving fast enough before those clever AI's notice the fellas near them got they're 
 skull cracked and decide to do something and so on)
  
  But the thing that really thrilled me was the Multiplayer system taken from Modern Warfare which 
 blends perfectly in the action , and makes you want to play more and more , just like a MMO RPG 
 with XP and PERKS that help you be more accurate or get new skills. That thing completely ripped 
 my Real Life perception and got me staying for about 7 hours after work every day just to gank 
 as many as possible and perfect my rank, this happens to me only on COD because it has that really 
 neat WW action. The possibility to make your SVT Rifle a sniper rifle , to attach a muzzle on it 
 to make you invisible on the mini map when firing or that perk that also makes you invisible when 
 players want to recon search the map , those are utterly cool.
  
  All in all this is the best game that simulates WW as i see it , and i simply love it at the max. 
 That's why i got it ASAP and yes i didn't post a review because i was jammed with the excitement 
 of playing. This is kinda like a Company of Heroes viewed from a FPS perspective. Not quite but 
 not far either.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Swiftstrike5
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 8, 2008 4:51 pm PT
Review:  I think the main reason I dislike this game so much is because it's the same old story. If you've 
 played CoD 1, 2, or 3, then you know EXACTLY what this game will be like. 
  
  Singleplayer is very intense at some points, but deeply flawed at other points. There are times 
 when your AI will ignore enemies and I'm amazed they still haven't fixed this issue, after all 
 these games. 
  
  99.99999% of your deaths will be a result of a grenade. There are just too damn many of them. If 
 you want to know why Japan lost the war... it's because they used all their production lines to 
 make grenades and then spent all their time training the Japanese soldiers to hit a small target 
 100m away with a grenade. I was assaulting a small Japanese bunker on the other side of the ridge. 
 I was getting shot at by a HMG, so naturally, I dropped prone. I saw two small objects flying in 
 the sky and they landed on my head... 
  
  Entire game is scripted events (true for most CoD games) that don't end until you move up to a 
 certain point, which is difficult because your team won't do squat and the moment a grenade lands 
 at your feet, you've got to retreat.
  
  Waste of $50. I could have just played CoD2 again, but if you haven't experienced a WWII game, 
 I would highly recommend this one. Singleplayer isn't bad, but it's just that I've played it a 
 gazillion times before. I hope I never see another WWII game again because it's all the damn same. 
 The new multiplayer modes are amazing and that's the main reason I picked up this game, but the 
 combat is so familiar that it's dull to play. I wish they would add the new modes to CoD4, but 
 I doubt that will ever happen. 
  
  I swear they reused the sounds from CoD2 for some of the German soldier's voices. 
  
  If Treyarch 
 wants to succeed, they can't keep sitting behind Infinity Ward. Seriously, here's a great idea, 
 go into the future, Infinity Ward hasn't done that yet. Do something new... 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Masenkoe
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 7, 2008 4:27 pm PT
Review:  Call of Duty: World at War is a great game. I know most people are not giving this game a chance 
 because it's not made by Infinity Ward but that's no way to judge a game. Treyarch did an amazing 
 job with this game and I personally love it. In my opinion it was definitely worth the $50. 
  
  Campaign/Story 8.8/10
  -----------------
  
  The Single player mode is great. The story 
 that you follow with both the Marines and the Red Army is incredible. I truthfully prefer the Red 
 Army levels to the Marine levels because they take place in ruined cities rather than in thick 
 jungle. I definitely prefer the Campaign mode in Call of Duty: World at War than to the Modern 
 Warfare Single player. I prefer it because it seems to be more in depth than its predecessor. Plus 
 the epilogue at the end of World at War is much better than the 2 minute "Mile High Club" level 
 at the end of Modern Warfare. Most of you already know it's a Nazi Zombie mini-game!
  
  Graphics 9.9/10
  -----------------
  
  The graphics of Call of Duty: World at War compared 
 to Call of Duty 4 are much better. The environment is much more realistic, the people are more 
 realistic, etc. Plus the addition of blood & gore can really feed a brutal personality. Anyone 
 would be amazed with graphics of World at War. 
  
  
  Multiplayer & Co-Op 9.8/10
  --------------
  
  Multiplayer and Co-Op are great! There's not much I really have to say about 
 it other than that.
  
  
  Control 9.2/10
  ---------------
  
  I think the controls are more realistic than the ones in Call of Duty 4 so at first it can seem 
 restricting and slow. I believe this because when I switch back and forth between playing the two 
 I notice how much faster Modern Warfare is. Sometimes after playing World at War for a long time 
 then going back to Modern Warfare I am really bad and die a lot. This is because the speed and 
 control are very different from these two games; probably because two different developers made 
 them...
  Anyway the control is good but sometimes multiplayer lags, making the control hard to play with 
 but I think that's just me with my dodgy internet from time to time.
  
  _________________
  Overall Score:
  8.8 + 9.9 + 9.2 + 9.8 = 
  Average of 9.425 rounded to 
 9.5
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: 001master
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 6, 2008 12:03 am PT
Review:  Beside few bugs and other headaches to make the game work properly.. Single player is Simply Awesome... 
 I never played a World war 2 Game like COD 5... The Action, the thrill, motive for achievement, 
 Everything is awesome...
  Graphics are very good.. Overall... Game is simply Awesome !
  For those people who think that World war 2 was just for fun.. for those who wants World War 3!! 
 they should understand how and why the lives of 60 Million people had been lost in World War 2, 
 and Call of Duty 5 Explains Everything !
  10/10 For Call of Duty World at WAR !
  Weapons, Movements, Tactics, Gameplay, Storyline, Graphics, Sound Quality, Smokes, Grenades, Flame 
 throwers, Every thing is simple great..
  Just one thing i didnt like about this game is that i had to spend 1 Hour to make this game work 
 : (.. due to some bugs, but once this game works,, then u can simply enjoy and Experience the World 
 War 2 ! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: deiviuxs
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 5, 2008 6:07 pm PT
Review:  [this review is based only on Single Player campaign]
  
  POSITIVE:
  The games is pretty. It uses COD4 graphics engine which makes the game look more realistic and 
 just pretty to look at. It's also violent. It's much more brutal than COD4. For ex. when enemies 
 attack you to the ground, you stab them with your knife to their neck; when you shoot at enemies 
 with heavy weapons (ex. sniper) they lose their limbs (arms, legs, head, etc.) ; enemies have lost 
 of blood coming out from them when you are killing them; some of the cutscenes are simply amazing 
 and look realistic (I mean, you would actually see this scene in the war) .
  Flamethrower is great weapon and I simly love it! It's effective against lots of enemies and it's 
 awesome to burn your foes. Everytime you burn an enemy, he screams until he finally dies.
  Sound is as great sa always. Guns sound realistic and you really feel like in real war.
  The 
 story... even though this is a WWII game - it's told from 'different' perspective, which is great 
 and interesting.
  Enemies are awesome and smart! I really like/hate Korean guys. They would come from nowhere and 
 just attack you wihout shooting! They are real badass kamikazes!
  
  NEGATIVE:
  Lenght. I felt that the single player campaign is too short. The game has exactly the same problem 
 with SP campaign as the COD4 had last year. Missions are awesome and different, but there's just 
 not enough. I want more!!
  In some of the missions, there could be more action. Every mission in COD4 was crazy as everyone 
 was shooting everyone and your teammates were screaming.
  Still not as good as COD4 single player campaign.
  Oh, I hate grenades! I died so many times 
 because of some stupid grenade that I didn't see!
  
  OVERALL:
  I was really pleased with this game and Treyarch did a great job. They took WWII theme and made 
 it fresh again. The flamethrower is awesome and the brutally of this game really adds up to the 
 experience. However, modern war was more interesting to play due to never seem guns and the story 
 itself.
  (if I have some free time, I will play SP campaign again)
  
  9/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AMDP92
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 4, 2008 3:56 am PT
Review:  Frankly, WaW is the first WWII game I have played and I was stunned...
  
  The game's storyline is very interesting since the missions are the final combats. It is not as 
 disappointing as Modern Warfare. I'm not saying that CoD4 is not good. In fact, the game is my 
 favorite for the year 2007.
  
  The weapons are highly appreciable for it really resembles the WWII era.
  
  At last, the AI 
 has true challenge. The game is now slightly more difficult.
  
  The engine is greatly optimized. And the sound is terrific. The player can really feel the WWII 
 ambience.
  
  The game is much more gory than Modern Warfare which is I think it adds to the taste of the game...
 
  
  My bottom point: one of my top 10 video games of this year is CoD WaW... I haven't given it any 
 rank because I still haven't played some of my anticipated games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: izhamizan
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 4, 2008 3:24 am PT
Review:  This is the 1st WW-II game i played which i really loved..
  played medal of honour before and it's not so intense as this one..
  good graphic with the goreness 
 of the body parts flying in single player and also multiplayer..
  u can see body parts getting rip of with a double barrel shotgun in close range or a sniper shot 
 which can tear ur insides out both in campaign and also in multiplayer..
  
  awesome scenery's of the war zone with some everywhere which just makes u feel at war.. well that's 
 me when i'm in a game.. u got the get the feel for something to enjoy it..
  
  one thing i notice in campaign is that u can actually kill ur fellow comrades.. i'm not ashame 
 to say that i did kill few of my fellow comrades cause of ke "banzai" attacks which miss fired 
 my shot to my fellow comrades..
  
  close to realistic battlefields.. but i spend most of my time in the multiplayer mode..
  very 
 addictive.. just annoyed with the dog.. which is totally everywhere like hungry starving dog from 
 war and would eat just about anything possible..
  
  anyway a great game and hoping for new patches for new maps in multiplayer mode.. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CheeSinLouz
Rating: 5.5
Date: Dec 3, 2008 9:44 pm PT
Review:  Utter disappointment is what hit me in the first 5 minutes of the game, a done-to-death opening 
 with a done-to-death gameplay follow by done-to-death highly cliched storyline (not to mention 
 cliched voice acting, OH! and the character's facing the wrong direction when they are talking 
 to you too) . It is essentially COD2 with COD4 engine and some minor variation in about just everything.
 
  
  Don't get me wrong, I'm a big fan of this genre, no doubt it is done-to-death but COD: WaW didn't 
 manage to breath in anything new into an already saturated market, hell, even MoH: Airborne tried 
 to do something new; just that they fail to spot the hole in their parachute.
  
  One of COD: WaW gameplay element which sticks out like a sore thumb is its failing re-spawning mechanism: 
 enemy will keep respawning until you push forward. At lower difficulty is fine, but you can kiss 
 your bolt action & semi automatic rifles goodbye as the need to flush out enemy grows.
  
  The next disturbing aspect of COD: WaW is its music, modern instruments with modern notes will often 
 make you wonder: "Hey, isn't this game set in WW2?" Go figure.
  
  However, there is no doubt the beginning clip of each starting mission has a great art direction 
 over COD4 (borderline comical at times) , but it is not enough to save the game. Treyarch will need 
 a better 'director' to narrate the story, on a better level design (too stagnant) & a richer gameplay.
 
  
  To sum this all up, COD: WaW limp over like a old dog, raising its tired head with its teary eyes 
 locked on to his master with a whimpering sound. Without much of a thought, Treyarch says:
  
  "To hell with it, lets have another go"
  
  And go to hell it did. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: djmtec
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 4, 2008 3:16 am PT
Review:  Ok here we go , First of all lets start with the well designed menus and music (not the one in-game) 
 and background effects that Call of Duty always had in its series for PC (not talking about PS3 
 or Xbox because i never played those) . About the Campaign what can i say , its new indeed , it 
 has new elements , new graphics , groundbreaking almost ; but the sacrifice on this is the fact 
 that its too short. I managed to Finnish the game 3 times , took me 4 hours to do it on easy difficulty 
 a bit more on regular and max 6 hours - 9 hours on hard difficulty because you kinda die a lot 
 hehe.
  So i must say from my own point of view that I'd rate the single player with a squeezed 8 and that 
 mostly for the beautiful graphics and storyline that it offers (like on the Russian part when it 
 resembles a movie i can barely remember in name , with sniping on key moments like when planes 
 fly above , moving fast enough before those clever AI's notice the fellas near them got they're 
 skull cracked and decide to do something and so on)
  
  But the thing that really thrilled me was the Multiplayer system taken from Modern Warfare which 
 blends perfectly in the action , and makes you want to play more and more , just like a MMO RPG 
 with XP and PERKS that help you be more accurate or get new skills. That thing completely ripped 
 my Real Life perception and got me staying for about 7 hours after work every day just to gank 
 as many as possible and perfect my rank, this happens to me only on COD because it has that really 
 neat WW action. The possibility to make your SVT Rifle a sniper rifle , to attach a muzzle on it 
 to make you invisible on the mini map when firing or that perk that also makes you invisible when 
 players want to recon search the map , those are utterly cool.
  
  All in all this is the best game that simulates WW as i see it , and i simply love it at the max. 
 That's why i got it ASAP and yes i didn't post a review because i was jammed with the excitement 
 of playing. This is kinda like a Company of Heroes viewed from a FPS perspective. Not quite but 
 not far either.
  
  Thanks for reading. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Halo-Master12
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 2, 2008 7:26 pm PT
Review:  The good
  Graphics
  Single Player
  FLAMETHROWERS!!!!
  Cool guns
  Gory
  Intense vilionece
  Stabing
  
  The okay
  multiplayer
  online
  
  The bad
  loading 
 
  Kiss-up
  Same deal
  
  This game of mixture of new and old. Mostly old. And that killed a good .5 points. MAKE IT BETTER! 
 It's not hard to change it up a little. How about another game for online. Yeah Nazi zombies. THAT'S 
 IT! make like..... Capture the Flag.... or..... Old school-Search In Destroy. Also... Loading. OMG! 
 It takes FOREVER to load a mission with my windows. In the old games, they show a journal so you 
 can read something. It's pitch black! What are you suppose to do? Waste 10 minutes staring at a 
 black screen??? I DON'T THINK SO!!!!! And There is the Kiss Up- Sgt. Roscov. After that mission 
 with him. HE WON"T SHUT UP! It was cool the first couple of times but JEEZ! That is Redicuilous! 
 IF I was Pvt. Comrav... I'D PUNCH HIM IN THE NOSE! It is stupid. I mean he's always like "You can 
 Learn from him" or "Follow his example" SHUT UP!
  
  Now you can probably over look that, so it is a good game. Get this game if you like COD. Now Gore. 
 OMG I LOVE IT! Seeing Germans arms explodes and heads being taken off. When you stab them in the 
 neck.. blood squirts all over the place. Now Flamethrower. IT IS SO COOL! Seeing people get burned 
 alive and trees getting reduced to ashes. The Graphics are like COD4, maybe a little better. And 
 that is a very good thing. It looks life like. The SIngle Player will take a good 6-10 hours depending 
 on your skills. And it's definetely longer than COD4 which only took around 6 hours tops. Another 
 good thing about singleplayer is the story itself. It really makes sense! It is evenly put in order 
 and I love how they only use 2 people instead of COD3 which had 4. That was really annoying. Another 
 good thing is stabing. IT IS AWESOME. I love how you attach a knife to your gun and stab people 
 to death. It is really fun. The final example is Intense vilonece. IT IS SO VILOENT! I mean you 
 do everything. Stab, Shoot, Burn, dogs bite. Talk about FUN!!
  
  The okay. First of all multiplayer. It didn't change a whole lot. So I can only say okay. It is 
 good they didn't change so it wouldn't get worse. But they also didn't make it better. So I give 
 it a OKAY. Finally. Online. Not much has changed. It didn't get worse. Yet it didn't get better. 
 Sure they get a few more PERKS. And some different GUNS. But it's basically the same thing as COD4. 
 Not worse. Not better.
  
  So in Conclusion. The game is pretty much the same as COD4. A few more guns. A few more Perks. 
 But viloince is why this is a 9. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tailou
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 1, 2008 9:39 pm PT
Review:  CoD is those kind of "guarantee satisfaction gameplay" type. You will never get disappointed with 
 those. But (theres always a "but") , seems that over these years, gameplay seems strangely... easy. 
 Not saying that every gamestage is a piece of cake, but getting through it is rather like shooting 
 ducks in a amusent park. 
  Not this time folks, CoD5 blew away that idea from me for good. I felt some difficulty getting 
 pass some stages, which is amazing! I encountered many "smart AI", actually i got killed too many 
 times comparing to previous versions of CoD. Maybe i got distracted by the surrounding graphics, 
 the environment is absolute war zone, detailled destroyed buildings and the breathtaking jungle 
 took me a lot of time to realize i was actually figthing enemy.
  Dont have to mention that you never fight alone, that you have to gain those extra 10 meters in 
 order to move everyone forward. Got upset witht the fact that some obstacules that you cant jump 
 over it. Many times I saw myself running into a rock wich i couldnt jump over it, it was irritating, 
 felt like running into a dead-end, literally.
  Once again I had much fun playing another CoD, looking forward to the 6th "episode", hope that 
 after the experience with the japanese jungle, the guys could turn their minds to somekind of a 
 vietnamese war background.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: episubs
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 1, 2008 5:41 pm PT
Review:  The graphics are great but it lags on my hd2600 xt on flamethrowers and dust/smoke filled battlefield (understandably 
 though) on the same high settings as my COD4.
  
  The gameplay is all too familiar. Wish that they include the 'clip' mode for hiding on walls or 
 other cover spots (ala GOW1/2 , vegas1/2, brothers in arms) . Those are the best parts in FPS games 
 IMHO. Not really a fan of q, e to peek left or right these buttons could and should be used for 
 other functions.
  
  The story is ok but it felt like enemy at the gates in the russia part of the game like in COD 
 2
  
  The sound is ok i guess. Not really too critical of the sound aspect since I don't have 5.1 or 
 greater speaker system (headphones or 2.1 speakers are fine for me)
  
  All in all it is still the same game with different characters and story (although the story is 
 not too original) . Why 8.0? I like the COD series, I still like the gameplay and the addition of 
 flamethrowers and smokey battlefield (although it lags on those parts) are ok.
  
  Maybe I'll try playing it on a crt monitor so I wont be forced to play at 1680x1050 resolution. 
 Might get rid of the lag on lower resolutions
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: adamas78
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 30, 2008 1:57 pm PT
Review:  **OK Gamespot I hand it to your "The Good" (agreed)
  "The GoodGritty, exciting story Same excellent multiplayer system Four-player cooperative campaign 
 Bayonets and flamethrowers Nazi Zombies. "
  
  **But your "The Bad" (is sad )
  "The BadFamiliar setting Familiar game mechanics Familiar guns." 
  
  
  
  So I picked up 
 the game apprehensively (only because I have overspent my gaming budget!) , but I just had to complete 
 my CoD library - good or bad.
  
  As a fan of the '07 CoD4 I was excited to see WWII recreated using the same graphics engine - and 
 was I blown away!
  The potential of the engine is realised with this latest installment of CoD, the lighting, effects 
 (some of the atmospherics are incredible) , models, are all more polished than CoD4. 
  It is simply a more beautiful game (Than CoD4) , not just the environments you will game in, but 
 the whole liveliness of the game brought on by a fabulous story using fantastic abstract animated 
 cut-scenes, and a GFX engine matured to deliver a rich WWII experience, unlike any other!
  
  WWII games will be around forever everybody (you too gamespot) , this is not something to moan 
 about, I believe it should be something to embrace. We will never see war happen as it did during 
 the World-Wars.
  With technolgy we are able to recreate these events, I just hope dev's continue to deliver new 
 immersive experiences as CoD5 has done to it's predecessors. 
  NB. I have not reviewed the MP of the game as everybody who is interested 
  in this title would 
 know the bleeding edge multiplayer is adopted from 
  CoD4
  
  
  
  Tech Extra:
  Vista, P5K, Q6600 (@3.4GHz) , 4gig RAM, 8800gt 
  
  **CoD4** 1920x1200 will run max settings 
 (incl. extra size textures) , 2x antialiasing, 8x trifilter...... AVG 55-60FPS - Story
  
  **CoD5** 1920x1200 will run max settings (incl. extra size textures) , 2x antialiasing, 8x trifilter...... AVG 
 45-50FPS - Story
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: greatbigmouth
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 30, 2008 7:28 am PT
Review:  The Good:
  
  *Beautiful graphics
  *Great Single-player campaign
  *Nice soundtrack and voice acting
  *Addictive
  
  The Bad:
  
  *A few graphical glitches
 
  *Under-appreciated by most people
  
  When Gamespot announced the release of World At War, I though to myself "Oh, not another WWII shooter". 
 But after completing the first mission, I was already hooked.
  
  The pacific campaign makes it feel new and fresh and makes it unique from other WWII shooters. 
 I also really enjoyed the Russian campaign and the cinematics and voice acting put into this game 
 blows my mind. 
  
  The graphics are excellent on DX10, and the music is as tense as ever. The added bonus mission 
 at the end was also a treat to play. : )
  
  Overall, World At War is BY FAR, the best WWII shooter I have ever played. It's better than any 
 other competitor in the genre. Do yourself a favor and play it! You won't be disappointed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: deathiemember
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 30, 2008 5:41 am PT
Review:  I like this game a lot, and though it uses the "Call of Duty 4: Modern Warfare" game engine, it 
 still manages to separate itself nicely from the previous games. I haven't played single player 
 much, as always, but this game has a nice dark atmosphere to it, not in the means of dim lighting 
 or dark hallways, but content and subject matter wise. Instead of just falling to the ground when 
 you get shot or killed you may lose a limb or two, it also has some more gritty elements such as 
 more detailed melee attacks and the opportunity to release vicious hounds at your opponents. Most 
 of the content is pretty much the same though with regards to the upgrading system and combat play. 
 As with the previous game, when you have a kill streak of 3 or more you reap benefits such as artillery 
 strikes, enemy recon planes, and hound attacks. A few problems I have with the game are; the spawn 
 points, which occasionally set you down right next to an enemy leaving you in his sights, in which 
 case you would most likely die immediately; and the hound attacks, though being a neat idea, are 
 just too powerful since it usually only takes one bite from a dog to die, which is annoying. Still, 
 overall I will give this game an 8 since it is good fun and will give me probably 50 or 60 hours 
 of fun online. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MuFazzZ
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 30, 2008 5:40 am PT
Review:  Having the title "Call of duty" and having in mind the previous successful sequels of the brand, 
 I couldn't expect nothing less than a great game when i bought it. Fortunately, I wasn't wrong.
 
  First of all, as a fan of World War 2 games, I knew I had to erase all the crap games I had been 
 experiencing these months. I hadn't seen a game involving the Japanese for a lot time, so immediately 
 it catch my attention. 
  Well the game is again based on two characters, one in the Russian army advancing to Berlin and 
 the other in the American army attacking the Japanese, only this time no one is dying.
  The videos and the cinematics that are in included in most of them give a flavor of WW2 in the 
 game which thrills you before even the mission starts. In my opinion, the game approaches the warfare 
 in Japan and also the German grounds in a very realistic way. Jungle, mud and heat in Japan; rain, 
 mud and cold in Germany and Russia. The atmosphere is chilling and it keeps you focused 100% on 
 the game. The sounds of the jungle, the echoes of your enemies throughout the building, distant 
 bombing pounding your ears and bullets flying around you just don't let you relax for a moment. 
 The graphics are simply amazing with not many flaws, either of the open beach and the mass assault 
 or of the interior of the buildings you are fighting through. The explosions are amazing along 
 with all the bloodshed that is going on around you, the flaming Japanese and mass bombardments 
 of some fortifications that you have to conquer.
  The gameplay rocks of course, many and historically correct weapons for you to use with different 
 reactions and handling for each and every thing. The game has only one mission with vehicles (well 
 maybe two, but the one on the plane cannot be considered as a vehicle) , which is of course realistic, 
 although you need more than 3 people to operate a tank. The missions and your way to you final 
 target do not require a lot of running or useless time, because every step you make you either 
 find hiding Japanese or Nazis. I have to admit that the missions against the Japs were a lot easier 
 than the Russian (maybe it took me time to adjust to the gameplay) but after a while, running away 
 from bombs and hiding again or throwing them back made the game a lot easier and a lot more realistic. 
 The missions involved a lot of killing on both sides, this means that you and your friends kill 
 a lot of enemies (try this co-operative) but also a lot of soldiers from your side get killed, 
 something that pushes you to try harder and faster to achieve the objective. 
  The game is a must in my humble opinion and the return on your investment is almost immediate after 
 the first few missions. Aiming, killing, hiding, hearing enemies, throwing and avoiding grenades, 
 burning people alive (flamethrower!!!) , stabbing and killing zombies (yeah, try the last mission!) 
 are only a few from all the entertaining aspects of Call of Duty: World at War. Do not miss the 
 game, give it a shot and you will remember my words.
  +1 Activision.
  Enjoy 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spiderman120988
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 29, 2008 8:37 pm PT
Review:  Another year, another Call of Duty! Last year, Infinity Ward released Call of Duty 4 Modern Warfare 
 which brought the franchise to modern times and went on to become a critical and commercial success. 
 The fifth installment is here, this time Treyarch Studios overseeing development and bringing the 
 game back to its WWII roots. World at War manages to impress but the setting (growing increasingly 
 stale) holds it from surpassing its predecessor. You play as both an American solder named Private 
 Miller and a Soviet solder named Private Dimitri Petrenko with both campaigns alternating after 
 2 or 3 levels. The American campaign focuses on the "island hopping" that took place in the Pacific 
 region with American forces engaging in brutal fighting against the Japanese. You'll battle in 
 places like Peleliu and Okinawa, facing hordes of enemy troops. This campaign proves to be the 
 most memorable and action packed, with "banzai" troops repeatedly rushing and requiring you to 
 quickly press V or face a quick death. The Soviet campaign shares the same brutal theme with you 
 fighting on the European front in the German town of Seelow before storming the Reichstag in Berlin. 
 While it was fun, the Soviet campaign wasn't as memorable because we've seen the European side 
 of the war countless times. The story also ends up somewhat fragmented with the time jumps and 
 the levels alternating between the 2 campaigns. Single player should last you a good 10+ hours 
 with 15 levels, with a bonus "Zombie Level" once you complete both campaigns. The difficulty seems 
 to have been increased as I saw myself dying a lot more then previous CoD games. The graphics are 
 rendered with the CoD4 Engine and it looks simply amazing. Textures are detailed and using the 
 flamethrower is a visual treat. The environment is much more destructible to accommodate the new 
 fire effects. Sound is also excellent, with Kiefer Sutherland and Gary Oldman narrating the American 
 and Soviet campaigns, respectively. The sound effects of war are realistically captured, though 
 the weapon sounds are somewhat disappointing, with the exception of the "Black Cats" mission where 
 you fly a PBY Catalina, one of the most outstanding levels in a CoD game. Multiplayer should extend 
 the longevity of the game, with all the features in CoD4 returning such as team deathmatch and 
 capture the flag. It also employs a similar perk and ranking system from the previous game. For 
 the first time, World at War features a cooperative mode that allows up to 4 players online or 
 2 offline. It's obvious that Treyarch worked quite hard on the game after the somewhat disappointing 
 Call of Duty 3, a console exclusive and to live up to the standards set by Modern Warfare. I can 
 say with confidence that they've succeeded in making World at War a worthy installment of the CoD 
 franchise but the WWII setting is growing increasingly tiresome. I do like the fact they honored 
 America's veterans at the end to remind players of their sacrifice in the defense of our freedom. 
 Call of Duty World at War is a must-buy for the holiday season. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: olio_i
Rating: 4.5
Date: Nov 29, 2008 12:38 pm PT
Review:  Well to tell you the truth I wasn't expecting much from this game and as it turns out I was right! 
 Apart from using the same COD4 engine this game has nothing in common with Modern Warfare! I mean 
 the developers apparently found a way of making a great game worse! At least I was hoping for the 
 same graphics but the developer had some cuts in the budget obviously. The story line is mediocre 
 and it does not impress. There are some things I like tho, like the most notable effect in the 
 game is the tanks flamethrower. The smoke billowing off of the stream of fire looks real. There's 
 even a hand held flamethrower that looks and acts remarkably real. Particle effects are good but 
 could have done better.
  
  Before buying rent the game first because some people tend to like it and some (like me) don't. 
 I hope that Prince of Persia won't be disappointing as this title but you never know :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shane0
Rating: 1.5
Date: Nov 28, 2008 6:14 pm PT
Review:  The single player is quite fun. i was very excited to start playing mulitplayer. This is where 
 the game fell apart and i felt robbed. First off, there is WAY too much going on at once in multiplayer 
 when more than 12 people are on a map. it becomes a newb fest w/ the high ranking people able to 
 see everything and hit u no matter what. Perks are very retarded. They might as well let people 
 cheat during mulitplayer cuz thats all perks are. increased bullet damage, no recoil in guns when 
 perks are on.. i mean come on. I consider myself a pretty good first person player. But when you 
 get picked off thru walls and have no chance to fight back... that is not fun. A beatuful graphics 
 engine was built and they threw it all away w/ the destruction of a realistic sense of gameplay. 
 Ive been playing united offensive for years because it combines large maps, vehichles, and a chance 
 to play w/out dying every 5 seconds. I was looking for a multiplayer game that felt and looked 
 more real, meaning a realistic sense of gameplay like UO, but with better graphics. World at war 
 did a fantastic job making everything look real. (the guns are beautifully designed in every way 
 minus the "perks", as well as the maps and textures) . But take that away, and u got another spray 
 and pray game with unrealistic perks that enable others to pretty much cheat. I am extremely dissapointed 
 and feel i wasted 50 bucks. im going back to UNITED OFFENSIVE. Perks can go to h3ll ! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: perfectsniper15
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 28, 2008 3:38 pm PT
Review:  I have to say, this is one of the best Japanese voice acting I've heard so far in WWII games. (I'm 
 Japanese I would know)
  
  The narration of the story is interestingly good, and sounds so familiar but I can't place te name.
 
  
  The gameplay is... CoD through and through, nothing bad btw. The graphics are wonderful.
  
 
  Now I wish there were more weapons, but I suppose that's unreasonable, be funny to carry around 
 a sword though.
  
  The Russian levels were, by far, my favorite. Like the past CoD a lot like Enemy at the Gates, 
 but that's all I'm going to say.
  
  Still, nothing really new, seems like CoD wanted to take a take on the Pacific Front. Personally 
 I found it better then MoH but that's just me.
  
  Online I haven't really tried yet so I'll have to see, but my friends seem to enjoy it as it's 
 faced pace and the past games were good so I have high hopes.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: MaDaStar
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 28, 2008 5:33 am PT
Review:  I just finished the campaign this morning. The single player is much like CoD 4 MW with a WWII 
 setting. However there were a few 'glitches' that I found annoying. AI characters would sometimes 
 get in the way, and objectives were not always clearly defined. It took me numerous tries to get 
 into the Reich HQ. At one point I had to exit the game and restart, because I ended up getting 
 pinned under a fallen pillar. I was still alive, but couldn't move, and the AI squad had moved 
 on. Still the game finished leaving me with a satisfied feeling, and glad that I'd played it through. 
 The voice acting is excellent. Killing the Nazi Zombies is a fun bonus feature once you finish 
 the campaign. It's not quite up to Left4Dead, but it's still something that I can see myself playing 
 from time to time. It is better than the arcade bonus from CoD 4.
  
  The multi-player is excellent and along the same lines as Modern Warfare. It's nice to play on 
 the different maps with different weapons. Even though this is really just the MP from CoD 4 where 
 the helicopters have been replaced with attack dogs. It is nice to get a couple of points for shooting 
 one of them. Having Kiefer Sutherland narrating the action when playing as American is fun, it's 
 kind of like having Jack Bauer as your squad leader. The game, both SP and MP is fun, but it feels 
 to me like it should have been an expansion pack, as I have a hard time calling this Call of Duty 
 5 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stoch36
Rating: 5
Date: Nov 27, 2008 9:36 pm PT
Review:  First off the graphics are just horrible. The textures are alot worse than in COD4 and this games 
 runs alot worse too. I don't know why everyone say it has good graphics when it really doesn't 
 at all.
  
  
  Anywho, the story line is way to short and doesn't really get you drawn into the game like previous 
 COD's. I also hate that you have to be a Russian just like all the other games and the main character 
 is the same voice that was in the earlier ones. The flamethrower is extremely overrated, I'm not 
 saying it sucks but it's not the greatest thing to ever happen to a game like other people have 
 acted like. Also, there are so many problems with the game. I haven't experienced much of them 
 though. Multiplayer is okay but if you're playing hardcore the dogs are really annoying.
  
  Infinity Wards should just makes Call of Duty games from now on. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: alrudi1966
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 27, 2008 9:19 pm PT
Review:  Aside from some first day glitches that required a patch this game is exactly what you expect from 
 a COD title. The pacific campaigns expose the sheer brutality of the conflict, and the battlefields 
 are strewn with body parts. Lets not even mention the flamethrower. How I enjoy burning the snipers 
 out of trees! The Russian campaigns are the great as well. This has the best narrative of the two. 
 The Russian commander is a hoot. But the online play is what its about and it delivers. Its a blast 
 playing the campaigns with others. Gain points and rank up. Coop mode requires you to revive downed 
 players before they die. A nice feature that makes you stick together as a unit. Voice capability 
 is a must for online play. But you need to ramp up the difficulty, I think some weapons are overpowered. 
 Or maybe I'm just a good shot. The unlockable zombie Nazi level is fun a nice change of pace for 
 a coop match. The sound is great and visually its a beauty Hurry up with some mods now! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Enfeeblement
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 27, 2008 5:12 pm PT
Review:  For those thinking that this is going to be a step up from CoD4, do NOT get your hopes up. This 
 is just another fight in the WWII time and nothing more. I am not dissapointed however, the game 
 play is smooth, fun and just what you would expect form the CoD series. Obviously you will see 
 familar weapons since the WWII era has been done over and over again, but CoD keeps it fresh. Different 
 enemies, terrain, and of course jumping back and forth through different sides of the campain playing 
 American and Russian soldiers. I have not played the multiplayer yet, I will save that because 
 it will be my reward after completing the campain and should keep me playing the game for 50+ hours 
 thus increasing the valvue... For some it's a must purchase, for others maybe a wait for sale type, 
 but I think we can mostly agree it's a great game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: artursa
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 27, 2008 1:23 pm PT
Review:  I've never been very attached to playing COD in multiplayer, but the historical accuracy and intensity 
 of the single player campaigns have made me come back to them time and again. It was kind of a 
 disappointment to learn that COD3 would not come out for the PC. Considering that Treyarch's first 
 baby started receiving harsh criticism from the community, me as well as many others didn't feel 
 very confident about the decision to bring back Treyarch and the WWII era.
  
  I am somewhat biased because I love history and especially the very turbulent first half of the 
 last century. What I can say straight off the bat is that the authenticity is still there, in fact 
 Treyarch might even have improved upon it. One community reviewer mentioned that the guns don't 
 sound "right", especially the StG44, considered by many to be the world's first true assault rifle. 
 I have to object, because many of the guns (having conducted some of my own investigation) sound 
 very close to the real thing. The fact that the Sturmgewehr 44 doesn't "pack the punch" similar 
 to previous COD titles doesn't make it less fun to use.
  
  Furthermore, the intensity of the battles and cinematics we came to know and love in COD4 are still 
 there. For history lovers the short load-screen cut scenes provide interesting insights and rare 
 footage, while the action-oriented player (read everyone) will enjoy the in-game mayhem Pvt. Miller 
 and Pvt. Petrenko heroically endure.
  
  The jungle scenery in the Pacific really lets the game engine shine, although the framerate might 
 drop a bit too much on occasion, which is the major flaw in my experience. None of this happened 
 in COD4, but there also wasn't that much well-rendered foliage. You'll soon see that fighting the 
 Japanese is truly something else. Oh, and the final level of the game is something everyone who 
 has ever enjoyed shooting nazis in the leg should try playing.
  
  As a whole, I'd recommend Call of Duty: WaW to any COD veteran (because it is a solid game) , to 
 history lovers (the History Channel won't get you closer than this) and to anyone who loves shooters 
 and is not yet sick of WWII. I also think that with this title the setting is totally done for, 
 because the series has covered most major theaters. Now I'll be patiently waiting for the first-ever 
 World War I shooter To End All Wars  
 Hope it becomes a hit. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wallisey
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 26, 2008 7:19 pm PT
Review:  I bought this game for my computer, hoping to make the most of it, and I must say that I was desperately 
 dissapointed with the multiplayer.
  
  Having played hours of CoD 4, and ending up on 8th Prestige, I had really high hopes for World 
 at War, but was left feeling majorly dissapointed.
  
  Firstly, theres the CONSTANT errors. 
  
  I had to download a patch before I could even get 
 going, and even now, I have to open it, find servers, close it, and then relaunch it just to join, 
 because I get an error message if I dont. Thousands of other people have had this problem to.
 
  
  How can Treyarch release a game like this I ask you?
  
  Its beyond me.
  
  This game is basically CoD 3 mk II; and thats not necessarily a good thing having played its multiplayer.
 
  
  While the game does somewhat grow on you, it still wont leave you completely satisfied with the 
 end product.
  
  Anyway, heres to hoping Infinity Ward dont mess up CoD 6 as badly as this. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dgsag
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 25, 2008 7:14 pm PT
Review:  Read full review and score breakdown here:
  http://www. poland. us/strona,33,3327,0. html
  
  The Call of Duty franchise is riding a roller-coaster through time. Originating as a World War 
 II-based experience, the series jumped ahead about sixty years to modern times for its fourth main 
 installment, Call of Duty 4: Modern Warfare, which was critically acclaimed and a commercial blockbuster, 
 perhaps due in part to the change in setting. Many would wonder why the newest installment, World 
 at War, brings the series back to its bread-and-butter time period. They would also rightfully 
 question the swap in development teams, with the less-popular developer Treyarch taking the wheel 
 this time around. So, can World at War prove itself a worthy successor to Modern Warfare and avoid 
 the ugly step-child status of Call of Duty 3?
  
  World at War has you experience the War from the points of view of the Americans and the Russians, 
 similarly to previous installments. The twist this time is that the American campaign doesn't involve 
 the Nazis, but rather the Japanese. This is the first time the series has included the Pacific 
 Theater as one of its main campaigns, introducing a lot of new tweaks and twists to the gameplay 
 that ensure the campaign doesn't have a "been there, done that" feeling. The vast majority of WAW's 
 gameplay conventions are Call of Duty standards, so Modern Warfare fans will find themselves right 
 at home here. The shooting is just as satisfying as ever and enemies react appropriately to different 
 caliber weapons against different body parts. The Japanese have some interesting behaviors, requiring 
 different ways to combat them than the Germans. You'll often find yourself combing the grass and 
 trees to your sides for camouflaged enemies waiting with grenades, bayonets, and snipers. Watch 
 out for the Banzai charge: you'll often get knocked down and have to save yourself with a well-timed 
 knife strike before getting a bayonet stabbed through your guts.
  
  The campaign is just as linear as previous games, but this isn't that much of a problem because 
 the campaign is as much, if not more of, a thrillride as Modern Warfare. There are some awesome 
 scenes that grab you just like the All Ghilled Up level in COD 4, including: executions of your 
 enemy soldiers, clearing out infantry using a flamethrower-equipped tank and even hiding amongst 
 the bodies of your comrades. The battles appropriately feel much more chaotic and large-scale, 
 with appropriate background noises and visual cues to make the battlefield seem bigger than it 
 actually is. In short, this campaign would probably be of the same intensity and quality as anything 
 Infinity Ward would have come up with if they were to make another World War II game using the 
 COD 4 engine.
  
  Treyarch gets big points for incorporating two Cooperative modes that extend the life of the amazing 
 campaign. One is a standard playthrough of the campaign with up to three other players, while the 
 other is a competitive mode that has you racking up points and competing for the highest score 
 against your "allies". Like Halo 3, there are also a bunch of collectibles scattered around the 
 levels that give you "death cards". These cards can be activated to modify your game's difficulty 
 and other aspects of the game, including adding some hilarious twists such as exploding enemies. 
 Call of Duty games have long lacked a co-operative element, and WAW's inclusion of one simply boosts 
 the package's value far beyond that of any previous installment. Playing through the huge battles 
 with one or more of your friends offers a co-op experience that offers a nice contrast to Gears 
 of War's and Halo's more intimate campaigns.
  
  World At War's multiplayer component, while not as innovative as the game's campaign modes, is 
 just as fully-featured as Modern Warfare's. All of the previous game's modes are here in addition 
 to War, which was one of Treyarch's stand-out modes from Call of Duty 3. War is a mode that sets 
 up 5 points around the map which each side must capture in opposing order. The faster a team captures 
 a point, the more "momentum" they gain, allowing them to capture the next point even quicker. This 
 mode is quite frantic and a nice addition to World at War's large arsenal of modes. Weapons are 
 from the World War II-era, and generally offer less accuracy than the weapons of Modern Warfare. 
 This is offset by the fact that they feel more powerful: you'll end up racking up kills at pretty 
 much the same rate as the last game.
  
  The ranking system from Modern Warfare has migrated here with some expanded perks and a higher 
 level cap of 65. The prestige mode has also been preserved, with up to 10 levels of prestige now 
 available. For leveling nuts, Treyarch has created quite a value. For shooter multiplayer fans, 
 the game offers enough maps, modes, and unlockable weapons to last for months of gameplay.
  
  There's one little mode that we haven't mentioned yet: Nazi Zombies. Like us, you might initially 
 dismiss this as a little gimmick that the developers threw in just to offer more incentives to 
 buy the game. Basically, you and up to three other players have to defend a house against increasingly 
 larger waves of zombie attackers. You are given points for each kill, with these points translating 
 into currency. These points can be used to buy guns at specific racks on various walls in the level. 
 You start off restricted to the lower room, whose windows are boarded up, thereby slowing down 
 the first few waves of zombies. At first, you can snipe the zombies from a distance, but by wave 
 5, you'll find yourself struggling to keep them from knocking down the barriers. You can repair 
 them by holding down the action key, but this takes time and also momentarily renders you immobile. 
 Your team will find themselves needing better and more powerful weapons, and these are available, 
 albeit with a little twist. You'll have to unlock doorways or remove barricades to other chambers, 
 allowing you access to more powerful weapons. However, each of these rooms open up several more 
 entryways for zombies to attack from, nicely balancing out the game and adding different consequences 
 for your choices.
  
  Zombies has (we believe) unlimited waves, with each one throwing increasingly larger amounts of 
 enemies at you. You'll get further if you play with more friends, but even lone players will find 
 the mode engaging and fun. It's definitely a bigger, more engaging and valuable bonus than the 
 two-minute-long hijacked plane level awarded to those who beat Modern Warfare's campaign.
  
  The COD 4 engine was used as a base for World at War and has been improved in several key areas. 
 The most important of these is a new fire propagation system that, while not as impressive as the 
 one used in Far Cry 2's Dunia engine, is used to great effect in the form of flamethrowers (American) 
 and Molotov cocktails (Russian) . Treyarch has also upped the gore far beyond Call of Duty's normally 
 tame blood effects: higher caliber weapons can injure limbs and explosives can even destroy them. 
 Textures and environments look much more polished than they did in Modern Warfare and the sense 
 of war is told nearly perfectly by the oppressive, smoke-filled environments and the constant dropping 
 of artillery shells. In fact, the amount of background action here is quite staggering, making 
 us wonder exactly what kind of dark magic the tech guys at Treyarch used to make the game run so 
 well. On the Xbox 360, PS3, and mid-range-and-higher PCs, the game runs at a nice, steady clip 
 and exhibits barely any slowdown. We would go so far as to say that it runs better than Modern 
 Warfare, even if by the tiniest margin.
  
  Sound has always been a hallmark of the Call of Duty franchise. Even Call of Duty 3, arguably the 
 weakest entry of the main franchise, was recognized as having sound effects and musical themes 
 with quality beyond those found in most other games. World at War continues this trend, for the 
 most part. Weapons sound distinct, every grenade type gives off slightly different detonation effects, 
 Japanese soldiers scream "Banzai" as they're pushed into a corner and forced to suicide rush you, 
 etc. Simply put, World at War's soundscape provides an authentic and bone-chilling representation 
 of war which has nary any faults. Treyarch's touch is most obviously heard in the game's soundtrack, 
 which deviates from the orchestral standards found in the previous WW2 entries. Music is now a 
 mix of different genres, with rousing choirs punctuating the Russian campaign and heavy metal chords 
 accompanying climactic conflicts. We admire Treyarch's attempts to break conventions, but the electric 
 guitar did feel a little misplaced at times. In general, however, World at War is a feast for the 
 ears.
  
  I'll be frank: I did not expect Call of Duty: World at War to even come anywhere close to the bar 
 set by Modern Warfare. With Treyarch's mediocre past entries and a deviation from the successful 
 Modern Warfare setting, many would have expected this game to fail to capture the hearts of shooter 
 fans this holiday season. Shockingly, Treyarch has proven the naysayers wrong, building on the 
 success of all previous Call of Duty games and introducing their own successful features and twists, 
 thus creating one of the most fully-featured, high-quality value gaming experiences of the year: 
 I'll never automatically rule out a big-budget Treyarch project ever again.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: -Jankka-
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 25, 2008 4:12 am PT
Review:  It's been one year or so since the release of Call of Duty 4: Modern Warfare, the smash hit of 
 the Call of Duty series which was originally developed by Infinity Ward, and at times, Treayarch 
 taking it's own attempts at enhancing the video game franchise ( Call of Duty 2: Big Red One, Call 
 of Duty 3 ) .
  
  In World at War, we'll take a timemachine back to the World War II from the modern day. You'll 
 be fighting as an US Navy soldier, Private Miller in the front-lines of the conflicts of Japan 
 and as Private Dimitri Petrenko of the Soviet Red Army, fighting your way from the ruins of Stalingrad 
 all the way to Berlin.
  The characters don't show much emotion, but the game 'successfully' captures the horrors of the 
 war. It's brutal on both sides of the conflict, and no mercy is shown. The voice acting is great, 
 although there isn't much chatter, but other than that, non-stop action. 
  The battles move on very smoothly, and you'll never be bored nor hear silence in the war. To give 
 a little variety, a few missions you'll step in a vehicle, but it's not really the most loveable 
 element of the 
  game, even though it's all smooth in terms of gameplay.
  
  The Contrast between the two battlegrounds is huge; The Japanese might 'banzai attack' you from 
 anywhere, hide in the trees, or in small dug holes in the ground covered with foliage, whereas 
 the Wehrmacht have heavier weaponary and might burn you down with a flamethrower. Speaking of which, 
 the game has a great variety of weaponry. The guns have a nicely unique feel to them, and they 
 sound great as well.
  
  The visuals are great, and the game runs great on a modern system. Yes, it's the Call of Duty 4 
 engine, but the visuals aren't in any way outdated. The music gives a quite intense feel to the 
 game at times, and also the sounds of war give an impression of a massive battle.
  
  In-game cutscenes make intense scenes and great cinematic kind of feel to the game. 
  
  After 
 the singleplayer's done, you'll propably enjoy the Multiplayer.
  The multiplayer uses the great multiplayer system of the Call of Duty 4, which allows you to make 
 classes, customize your weapons, choose perks that improve your class in numerous different ways. 
 You earn them getting experience in the multiplayer, and getting new ranks. You'll level up quickly 
 at the start, and it's not like those who already have the highest possible rank, have the most 
 advantage. 
  There are also tanks in multiplayer of the World at War, they might feel a little overpowered at 
 times but nah, they're great. 
  
  There's also something else that's new; four player co-op.
  You can play the campaign with three 
 of your buddies, and this a nice addition to the Call of Duty series.
  
  In the end, World at War is propably one of the best World War II First Person Shooters of all 
 time. It's fun to play, everything's smooth, and it'll really suck you in. 
  If you're looking for a FPS, this is something you should definitely give a try, even if you're 
 new to the Call of Duty series in whole.
  
  The singleplayer packs about 8 hours of gameplay, depending on what difficulty setting you play, 
 or what kind of a game you are, and the multiplayer is a long lasting, great experience that will 
 definitely keep you playing.
  
  
  
  -Jankka
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: brain20035
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 25, 2008 2:47 am PT
Review:  First and foremost, my only quarrel with this game, terrible gameplay design for the single player 
 campaign. Why? Don't you think that respawning hordes of enemy units who suffer from a terrible 
 AI and trying to shoot them while they don't bare the hardship to take cover behind something, 
 is a little bit arcade? After all these WWII titles that I had played, this one seemed to be very 
 promising. The thing is that after playing BIA Hell's Highway, my expectations of a WWII game from 
 a tactical point of view were heightened. That's why I feel that this game doesn't deliver that. 
 all you have to do is to shoot enemies down and move forward before they respawn so that your squad 
 members will follow you and the checkpoint is saved. Tell you what, in the final level of the Russian 
 campaign, I finished the "THE LAST PART BEFORE THE FLAG CUTSCENE" shooting down only 5 soldiers 
 and moving forward like crazy people taking shot but going into cover so that the enemy would stop 
 respawning and before I make any other action my squad would take care of the enemy soldiers! That's 
 not how I want a war game to work!
  The multiplayer on the other hand is crazy! everything from Modern Warfare is present with some 
 new tweaks. The zombie mode is specially fun!
  Final line, get this game for the multiplayer, finish the short single player campaign later. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chevydriver1123
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 24, 2008 7:23 pm PT
Review:  As most people in the community know World War II games have been done to death several times over 
 so World at War had to be something to wow those that are sick of World War II games. This was 
 my first time exposed to the Call of Duty series and I was greatly impressed. The single player 
 campaign was pretty decent; it's even more fun when you do it in Co-Op mode. Learning curve was 
 very small which is always a good thing for First Person Shooters. Multiplayer is very solid, not 
 too many bugs or glitches as far as I can see anyway. I certainly enjoy the create-a-class system 
 with perks; to my understanding Call of Duty 4 was the first game to bring such a feature to the 
 table. Overall World at War is a good solid game; I highly recommend it for your Christmas lists. 
 Those who are veterans of other World War II shooters such as Day of Defeat (1.6/Source) , Battlefield 
 1942 (which last time I checked had maybe five servers still active) and of course the previous 
 Call of Duty games should add this to their collection. World War II maybe be old and stale as 
 a game theme but World at War is certainly not a game with an old and stale feel. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DoctorCream
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 24, 2008 2:52 pm PT
Review:  To me COD4 ate every game out there - immersive story, intense multiplayer, and a gaming engine 
 that stomped the arrogant Crysis platform into the ground ten times over with the best optimized 
 coding likely around today.
  
  So it is a hard act to follow, and clearly the precedent for the range of reviews coming in for 
 this game.
  
  That aside, World at War owns.
  
  The single player game on Veteran mode will take you ten to twelve hours into gameplay (ignore 
 the 3 hour claims - no chance in the world) . While the first few missions feel a bit disconjointed, 
 the game quickly picks up immersion and pace, and puts you into a challenging and completely immersive 
 environment. A total blast, and level designs are actually good enough to be replayed either solo 
 or with a friend (look out for those death cards - one in every area!!!) .
  
  The multiplayer is a great addition to the Call of Duty franchise, featuring brilliant addition 
 of domination, capture the flag, and the ever-intense War mode. These three alone will captivate 
 you for a hundred hours, let alone the other traditional modes packaged with the game. (Note: Dogs 
 are BRILLIANT! - What a way to punish those that typically ignored helicopters) . The environments 
 feel like United Offensive, and against masterfully done and a great add-on to Modern Warfare for 
 variety.
  
  The co-op mode is a diamond in itself. Although initially problematic for most with ping and connection 
 issues, it looks like the server management has fixed it up. Zombie Conquest is the bomb, and you 
 can replay most of the mission sequences with your friends AND mod them out with some cool scenarios 
 and effects to mix up gameplay. This is alot of fun, and a blast that will not quickly grow old.
 
  
  Tons of challenges, tons of fun, and alot (I mean ALOT) of killing.
  
  Only suggestions / criticisms I would have are:
  
  1. Language - when will these silly developers 
 learn to put the foul language on a separate track! Multiplayer is laced with everything you can 
 think of, and it is on the same track as all of the stratetic combat calls (dogs inbound, flag 
 taken, etc...) so shutting it off hampers the game. Shame on them for adding to another generation 
 of over-used foul language, when they could have so easily made it optional with a toggle. They 
 are isolating and over compartmentalizing their potential market share, not appealing to late teen 
 violence junkies.
  
  2. Prestige - They give you the ability to level up ten times, and trade in each level 65 fresh 
 for a new icon rank. It would have been MUCH cooler to associate this with completion of all challenges 
 instead of player level. Much harder, and you can't gimp your way to full challenge completion 
 by visiting FFA Martydom self-spawn servers that auto level you playing against fifty other wannabes.
 
  
  
  Get the game you will enjoy it! And look me up on the battlefield, call sign [XXX] Linebreaker, 
 if I haven't already plugged you. :)
  
  
  - Doctor Cream
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hoikensnogin
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 24, 2008 11:08 am PT
Review:  I've got ~300 hours into COD4 on the PC and xbox 360. I've got ~30 hrs into COD WaW so far.
  
  Short Version: Don't buy just for single player. Buy if you've played COD4 to death, and are 
 looking for a COD4 vacation. WaW is a awesome vacation, but COD4 will still be home.
  
  Long Version:
  
  Single Player: WaW's single player is very good, but it's not as good as COD4. 
 It is much better than COD3. This game is really about the multiplayer though.
  
  Multiplayer: A lot of good stuff here, and some bad stuff
  Pros: 
  
  1. The maps are really 
 good. Lots of variety, and they seem pretty balanced. You can snipe, rush, etc on every map. Most 
 maps don't favor one strategy and penalize another. The gameplay is a lot more varied because of 
 this. Example: in COD4 Crossfire (I snipe and love the map) , you know exactly how the game will 
 play out everytime. Sniper battles across the street with rushers on the side, EVERYTIME. I haven't 
 seen this is WaW yet.
  
  2. The graphics are awesome. It looks even better than COD4 and it doesn't take a monster rig to 
 make this game look great (yeah I'm looking at you Crysis) .
  
  3. There's a lot of really cool new ideas. The bayenet is a great idea, so are the dogs. They've 
 limited the number of granades and added a flack jacket (another great idea) . There's no more nade 
 spam! IMO, nade spam ruined Shipment and Killhouse in COD4. I won't even play those maps. The vehicles 
 are great and are very balanced. They are equal parts killing machine and death trap. The bolt 
 action rifles one shot upper torso, neck, and head. Throw in a bayonet, and you have a completely 
 new, and legitimate class. The flame thrower is a cool idea, and so far it seems balanced.
  
  4. The machine gun class is improved. The bipod is a cool idea. In COD4, practically no one 
 uses a machine gun because the the smgs, AR's, and snipers are just better. In WaW, the machine 
 class is better balanced with the other classes.
  
  Cons:
  COD4 has a lot more weapon variety. All bolt action rifles in WaW are identical except for the 
 skins. All the pistols (except the magnum) are practially identical as well. The range of the pistols 
 is nerfed. If you're in pistol range, you should be trying to knife. The type100 is exactly the 
 same as the Thompson except the clip is larger. The semi auto rifles can't compete with smgs or 
 bolt actions. They require two hits to kill with stopping power, and they kick like horses (exception 
 is Garand w/ sniper scope) . Oh yeah, I hate the WaW sniper scope. The cross hairs are way to thick. 
 WTF? 
  Airstrike   Artillery
  In COD4, an airstrike droped 3 bombs, and thats it. In WaW the artillery lasts way to long. The 
 shells are in accurate, but they deliver shell shock and kick up dust for quite a range to both 
 sides. This results in the whole map kinda waits for the shelling to stop, and nobody really gets 
 hurt from it. It should be more deadly, but not last as long.
  
  Spawn problems: You get spawned killed (and get to spawn kill) more often in WaW. It's not a huge 
 issue, but it can iritating.
  
  Hit detection: The hit detection in COD4 wasn't perfect (ask any sniper) . WaW has it's problems 
 too. IMO, it's worse than COD4. 
  
  Overall:
  The guns in WaW are nerfed compared to COD4. The smgs have a slower fire rate and more recoil. 
 The snipers are bolt action, and the machine guns don't get a reflex (red dot) sight and kick more. 
 This isn't a bad thing... spray 'n pray is much less effective in WaW. Plus there's no 'nade spam, 
 and only bolt actions get rifle granades (noob tube) so skill wins out more in WaW.
  
  It's not as good as COD4 (one of my top 5 favorites of all time) , but it's a solid 9.5
  
  
 
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: sage_spartan
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 24, 2008 1:12 am PT
Review:  Like most fans of Call of Duty and the WW2 genre in general, I hoped that this game would appeal 
 to me. I can say it did. But did it live up to my expectations?
  
  Yes and No.
  
  I've been playing WW2 games most of my life and the themes have always been the same, The original 
 Call of Duty knocked it out of the park. I was playing scenes from Band of Brothers, The Longest 
 Day, A Bridge Too Far and many other classics. Why did that make the experience so much better?
 
  Because it immersed you into what it was like. The sounds; the reality of war; the suspense.
 
  
  I got all this from the original and COD 2, also among others like the Brothers in Arms series 
 and a personal favourite Hidden & Dangerous 2. Playing as different countries in their struggle 
 was hugely gratifying, making us enjoy beating back the German war machine and saving Europe. We 
 weren't a one man army as such but felt like we were involved in something worthwhile.
  This is where my issues with the genre now are failing miserably, the immersion is gone, the sounds 
 and visual impact are getting dull and the story and characters are non-existent. By now you're 
 most likely thinking "When will he get to the damn review!", but I believe it's important to examine 
 the genre as a whole.
  
  Now then to the review - COD World at War
  For some reason I had no excitement about this game's release as Treyarch have disappointed me 
 in the past. World at War is definitely a much better attempt this time round, but the question 
 is has Treyarch gone too many rounds already, should they leave it to Infinity Ward, the true artists 
 in the genre.
  First off, it's quite obvious that World at War is just COD4 with a makeover, Treyarch used Infinity 
 Ward's engine and this was probably the only reason I kept playing it. Visually the Game looks 
 great, sticking true to the now expected detail and colour palette of previous outings. But that's 
 about where the similarities end.
  
  The Sound - 
  In COD4 it was amazing. You felt there were explosions going off next to your head, the guns felt 
 real; that the power could be heard in the sheer volume after every round of ammunition was fired 
 off. I cannot say the same for World at War. Some weapons were accurate like the 30. Machine Gun 
 and the Springfield. But all the rest sucked. The grenades sounded like somebody farting across 
 the room, the noise from shooting your bolt action rifle in most cases can barely be heard. The 
 SMG's were varied; the Thompson sounded like it was raining outside my window. The 12 gauge shotgun 
 was insanely muffled and the Colt pistol was like throwing a tennis ball against a brick wall. 
 I won't go through all the weapons these are just some examples but I can't speak highly for the 
 rest. Over all the sound was lame, the only time my heart started racing from the suspense was 
 when there was a Banzai charge so I could use my knife. 
  
  Accuracy-
  I'm going to go out on a limb here and guess that most people don't give a rat's ass about historical 
 accuracy and research but for me as a WAR buff it's always bothered me. Feel free to scroll down 
 to the next section because I'm going to rant a bit here. For starters, Treyarch, Kudos on bring 
 new and "exciting weapons into the fold". Too bad the existing ones weren't done right to begin 
 with. The original COD got everything spot on; you would think that this would be a piece of cake 
 for the WAW team. Unfortunately this is not the case. All the sounds were lame; they got the weapon 
 designs wrong on many of the guns incorrect; and left out some great ones. I will praise them on 
 one thing though the M1 Garand. FINALLY somebody got the reloading mechanism right, and the animation 
 for it looks great.
  
  Performance issues -
  The A. I. is strange, One minute they'll be helping you by throwing away a grenade that's just landed 
 next to your face, then next they're letting enemy soldier walk right past them to charge at you 
 or just standing there while you're in a hole with 5 guys shooting at you. There were numerous 
 instances where both friend and foe alike would just stand there not firing, to be easily cut down 
 from knife range. In most cases the enemy AI is too smart, they'll predict your actions; I found 
 that depending on what weapon I'm brandishing at the time on the harder difficulties say the more 
 powerful MG42, either their attention would all turn to me (not that it isn't most of the time 
 anyway) or they would appear out of nowhere to kill me from behind. Then there's the anywhere between 
 3 to 6 grenades falling on you all at once from impossible distances and from locations they have 
 made contact with you personally yet and can't even see you from. 
  When you have grenades land on your and you find yourself stuck because your idiot of a teammates 
 has taken cover in your position therefore cause you to become bogged down and unable to move, 
 leaving you precious seconds to swear incoherently at the TV screen while you wait for the checkpoint 
 to reload. Speaking of checkpoints they are few and far between. 
  
  This brings me to the difficulty rollercoaster ride. On Regular it's well... "Regular" for the 
 most part until you arrive at objectives in some missions where the ground cover is non-existent, 
 this creates a problem for those achievement buffs wanting to pass the game on veteran. I will 
 say I'm good at these games, and I do enjoy a challenge, but when a game has me screaming in anger 
 at the TV screen and taking all my will power not to throw the controller through it is when I've 
 got an issue with it. Some levels are near impossible, and when you finally do one objective after 
 trying over and over and over... to find out the checkpoint doesn't come up it's enough to bring 
 you to tears of frustration. When this game is too easy it's "too easy", when it's challenging 
 or hard its "impossible". For any of you guys out there that pass this mess of a game on Veteran 
 I salute you, because you have the patience of a saint, whereas I do not. One last thing on performance, 
 or design, this game was insanely linear, I mean they've always had directed paths, but in the 
 Marine campaign it felt like I was going along a board walk in the jungle section of the Zoo hoping 
 a bird wouldn't take a crap on me.
  
  Story  
  Ok most people don't care about story when it comes to shooters but I do so here is the basic lowdown. 
 You're Pvt. Miller in the US campaign, a generic faceless grunt like most ww2 shooters, except 
 in most shooters you feel a part of the team, in this it's like you're an observer looking through 
 some idiot's helmet camera. When the game first started and you see you're a POW being interrogated 
 by the Japanese, your mate is next to you, having the crap beaten out of him and having a cigar 
 burned into his face, I'm thinking "SWEET". "Finally the grim realities of war are within my reach". 
 Then when you're about to have your throat cut like your recently deceased friend, your captors 
 miraculously get taken out and you're rescued. Well so far so good and I haven't even done anything 
 yet. I grab a rifle and we are off, shooting my way through Japanese soldiers with some guys I 
 just met, so far everything not bad at all.
  Then it slowed down dramatically after that, I neither cared for my comrades well being nor saw 
 them as actually helping me with anything. More or less acting as portable ammo dumps when they 
 come in range of your knife (For some reason there's no penalty for killing your mates this way) .
 
  The American campaign tries hard to make your care about those around you, but most of time I 
 couldn't recognise them or they were hiding somewhere, also being ordered by Keifer Sutherland 
 to do EVERYTHING, got a little annoying. It made you feel as if your character was the bait for 
 every trap. This was apparent when I realised you teammates wouldn't even move ahead from one section 
 to the next without you leading the suicidal charge. This is especially annoying on the harder 
 difficulties. It seemed like the same old recycled stories over again, while the pacific campaign 
 was a welcome change, but the Russian one has been done to DEATH. 
  
  It's more or less exactly the same as the Russian campaigns in the 1st COD and in the 2nd. "Boring 
 as hell" to put it bluntly. And when it got to the stage where you're more or less hunting down 
 fleeing German soldiers for a few levels, I felt bad doing so. There's no honour in shooting somebody 
 in the back and that what was happening for the second half of the campaign. To be honest it pissed 
 me off. We have been conditioned to see German soldiers in these games as evil and requiring neutralization. 
 I have been aware for a very long time in reality that this wasn't the case and that most weren't 
 NAZI's at all just regular soldiers. But in the gaming world it's been "Kill or be killed" so the 
 thought never occurred to me nor bothered me while playing until now. The idea or glorifying Russia's 
 2.5 million troops hunting down Germany's 50,000 Soldiers and Civilian Soldier's isn't a war game 
 I want to play. I felt sorry for them for the first time. Until I reached the Reichstag at least 
 when the enemy were wearing NAZI armbands then I had no problem with it, but when you're being 
 told to wipe-out the remaining disorganised and scared to death forces defending what's left of 
 their country even though Hitler's dead and there's nobody left except civilians basically defending 
 their homes, again it felt wrong.
  
  I think if COD wants to take another crack at WW2, I would personally like to play as my fellow 
 Australians, we served all over the place yet haven't been represented in a game to date, the British 
 have far more interesting places to go than most, hell I would even enjoy playing as Germany FOR 
 THE FIRST TIME EVER (that may peak interest) . Anything is better than the recycling of boring Russian 
 campaigns or see the US glorifying themselves once again reminding us all how "powerful and great" 
 they are. Personally I'm not bored of WW2, I just wish they would do something different and do 
 it right. If Infinity Ward wants to stick with the Modern era I'm more than happy for them to do 
 it, just don't let Treyarch massacre a great franchise they established. But I won't say I hated 
 the game I did enjoy it, it was fun just not great. And I found myself annoyed and frustrated way 
 too often.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: SpeedCanHurt
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 23, 2008 4:09 pm PT
Review:  Call of Duty: World at War is one confusing game to review. There's so many ups and downs, in both 
 single player and multiplayer, that I honestly don't know how to rate it. But I'll try anyway.
 
  
  The first thing you'll notice when playing World at War is the similarities to previous installments 
 in the series. The menus and HUD seem to be closely based on Call of Duty 2, while the graphics 
 are practically unchanged since Call of Duty 4. In fact, the only thing that makes the graphics 
 look better is the scenery, which has clearly had a lot of time spent on it. The islands of the 
 Pacific, for example, look quite impressive. However, you'll be disappointed by things like the 
 special effects - explosions are too dark, unimpressive and some of them are even seem jittery.
 
  
  The music, on the other hand, is completely new and possibly more at home in, say, the next Quake 
 game or Resident Evil movie. It's fast, heavy and exciting - not bad, but electric guitars and 
 bass beats seem somewhat out of place during what was the greatest, and most devastating, conflict 
 in human history. But that's okay, because it's not the only thing that detracts from the WW2 feel.
 
  
  Weapons like the M1 Garand with rifle grenade launcher. While it would have been available during 
 the war, it seems quite disappointing that you just pop a grenade on the end, pull the trigger 
 and it works exactly the same as underbarrel launchers in Call of Duty 4. You don't even have to 
 switch the magazine to blanks. Then there's the flamethrower. At first it's a nice, if not evil, 
 weapon to have, and you see them in use and even get to use a couple during the early parts of 
 the single player game. Then further towards the games conclusion, every second soldier seems to 
 have one. Don't even get me started on the Molotov Cocktails.
  
  While these things do make the game that much less realistic, there's a lot more fun to be had 
 in single player yet. Bayonets are good to have, you can run around with deployable machineguns 
 like the MG34, and being able to blow off limbs with grenades and even some of the bigger guns 
 is sweet.
  
  The missions definitely throw a lot of surprises at you, though they rarely make you jump. And 
 yes, you do often feel bad about using flamethrowers and molotovs - well, you should anyway. World 
 at War makes you feel a lot more involved than you did in previous games, from being a prisoner 
 subjected to torture to deciding the fate of your own captured enemies. You really feel like you're 
 a part of the action, but at the same time your fellow soldiers become much more useful. While 
 in the older games you pretty much did everything yourself, World at War sees your allies also 
 completing objectives, taking down bunkers and MG nests and even killing the occasional enemy.
 
  
  And as for Nazi Zombies? Too cool. Once you've finished the game, you get access to a sort of special 
 mission which sees you in a boarded-up house, complete with WW2 weapons, under attack by countless 
 waves of zombies. Your objective is to survive as long as possible. Simple and really good fun.
 
  
  But now for what everyone really wants to know about - multiplayer. The developers have wisely 
 decided that a winning formula like Call of Duty 4 should not be changed, and it is actually pretty 
 cool to still have the same XP, classes and perks system from the older game. But when you mix 
 that with less effective weapons like all those bolt-action rifles, the game slows down considerably. 
 No matter how much you enjoy the player system, the guns and equipment just seem to break the flow. 
 And then there's the ability to drive tanks around some of the maps, which will either make or 
 break your game.
  
  The packs of dogs are cool, and a good replacement for the helicopter you used to get after enough 
 kills. There's nothing like watching your opponents trying to hit half a dozen of the beasts that 
 are running straight for them - through a sniper scope. And there are quite a few other features 
 that help improve the multiplayer game. But it's just too hard to shake the feeling that someone 
 threw Call of Duty 2 and Call of Duty 4 together and gave it a new name.
  
  So, basically this game is a big pile of contradictions rolled up into one compact package. Whether 
 you like it or not is up to you. For me, it's worth it. So far. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Luthidane
Rating: 1
Date: Nov 23, 2008 3:39 pm PT
Review:  First off, this game deserves a higher rating than a 1; I just wanted to bring down the average 
 rating as much as possible. I've played the whole call of duty series, with the exception of the 
 third, and I am a big fan. I played COD4 to death, and then played it again, and again, etc... 
 I enjoyed it more than any fps I've played, especially the multiplayer. So, naturally, when I learned 
 that a new cod was coming out, I expected great things. I was sorely disappointed.
  Don't get me wrong, it isn't all bad. the single player is exciting, albeit with an all too familiar 
 feel. Besides some glitches I experienced with the AI, it was flawless.
  After I'd played through the whole game in single player, I was eager to move on to the main course 
 of my cod experience: the multiplayer. In so doing, I encountered one hitch after another. My computer 
 isn't as powerful as it probably should be to play this game, but even with all the settings at 
 their lowest, lag was common and often debilitating. Nothing is more frustrating than thinking 
 you're shooting your enemy because that's what you see on the screen, but then he actually somehow 
 shoots you first. It's impossible to hit anyone with any weapon other than an automatic, and you 
 can forget about trying to knife anyone. I expected some lag, but since I can run COD4 without 
 any problem at all, I thought the new one would be at least playable with the settings down. Maybe 
 I'm an idiot complaining about this, as I don't know a whole lot about computers but, in any case, 
 the lag has made it nearly unplayable for me.
  More irritatingly, punkbuster occasionally kicks me from a server for no apparent reason. I tried 
 manually updating it, but it was to no effect. I haven't even downloaded any mods yet. If you can 
 explain this to me, please don't hold back.
  
  All in all, if an enjoyable multiplayer experience is what you're in the market for, then stick 
 with COD4. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: indu1990
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 23, 2008 1:55 am PT
Review:  The game it self is great fun. I have played through single player story and i have played about 
 5 hours of the multiplayer. The story is very interesting. Adding the Japanese to the story is 
 great too. The graphics are great .The adding of the flamethrower and the bayonets makes it very 
 interesting.
  
  The voice acting of the game is great too. They have found great actors.
  
  
  But the other weapons are the same, the setting is the same, the game mechanics are the 
 same too.
  
  Multiplayer is great too. It has some excellent system. They have added the Nazi Zombies, what 
 is great. Its great fun.
  But again its the same as in COD 4. I hoped that this game will be different from the other Call 
 of Duty games, but its not. There is too much same things as in the last COD games. But its still 
 worth playing.
  
  
  NB! My first review. I tried 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shade6
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 22, 2008 7:01 pm PT
Review:  I just finished the single player campaign . Got to tell you that it feels good .I thought it had 
 solid feel to the game the action was superb. The voice acting was decent ,liked kiefer sutherland 
 and so on. I thought the game play was cool some minor bugs .Like the tank scenerio where the turrent 
 was amed one way and the flame was going the other way. But that was ok reat of the game ran ok 
 on my rig .I think its one of those games that i just enjoy playing .I think treyarch studios caught 
 the feel of the game ,the same way that infinity ward did .graphics where cool ran smooth .I thought 
 the game was just out right exciting .THE bugs where minor shading was decent multiplayer was cool 
 lived up to call to duty 4 over all was a good time play and enjoy I feeel that any one playing 
 this game should have a great time .The characters where cool voice acting worked out nicely .The 
 leveles where hard but not to the point where you would not have a good time .The graphics looked 
 good enjoy the hunt
  shade 6 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CaptainWesser
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 22, 2008 6:29 pm PT
Review:  The new call of duty World at War is a great game with 15 missions.
  The missions only takes Maximum 20 min's to play like the early Call Of Duty games.
  
  The 
 New Mission of pacific war are good mission you can use a flamer weapon tats make a hole kills 
 in the missions.
  the game play of call of duty world at war is almost the same as the call of duty 1 and 2 with 
 the WWII they have chanced the U. S. A are now fighting in the pacific war against japan
  and I don't have played with the U. K. and they are in the 1 And The 2 of Call Of Duty so tats a 
 lilttle bad on the game but the pacific makes it all good
  
  and the last mission you most fight against zombies for players who likes left 4 doom is it a good 
 challenge to play it
  
  The game is worth playing the single player of this call of duty was the longest for me i don't 
 jey played the multiplayer the game gets a 8.5 of me 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Smiley451
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 22, 2008 9:10 am PT
Review:  Okay, the only reason people aren't loving this game to death is because:
  a) It's WWII
  b) Same engine as COD4 (why is that a bad thing????)
  
  you see here's the deal, most WWII 
 games haven't taken place in the Japanese theater, and this one focuses a lot of that part of the 
 war. 
  If you're seriously fuggin sick of European WWII games, then I guess you won't like the Russian 
 part of the game, but I sure did. It's really well-made and the levels are awesome.
  
  what's more is that this is really different from the other WWII games you've played. It's so much 
 more intense. Now I know you won't think that makes a difference, but you'll understand what I'm 
 saying once you start playing the game. No other WWII game let's you light people on fire and burn 
 them out of their trenches. No other WWII game has explosions that throw so much dirt into the 
 air. No other WWII game lets you blow off limbs with rifles and grenades. The Japanese guys pull 
 tons of tricks on you:
  Bonzai attacks (get your friggin bayonet ready)
  Hiding in trees
  Komakazi
  Hiding in the grass with super-awesome camoflauge
  
  And then the thing about it 
 being the same engine as COD4. okay, seriously. Why is that even an argument?? Look at every single 
 other game series. What do you find? Oh yeah, they all use the same engine. Sure, COD5's doesn't 
 really differ much at all from COD4's. But eventually, you're going to get sick of using the exact 
 same guns, on the exact same levels on COD4. So here's COD5 just waiting for you, with new guns, 
 new perks, new attachments, new levels, new abilities. 
  And didn't COD4 rock out with its cock out? That engine pwned. And so does COD5
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: trevorbrook123
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 22, 2008 3:28 am PT
Review:  WaW doesn't subtract anything from Call of Duty 4. This time around we have gore, intestines splattered 
 around the enemy's corpse instead of rag doll physics. Is there an option to turn blood and gore 
 off? Yes, there should be. I feel that the character models are far superior to Call of Duty 4. 
 Now game play wise it is better than Call of Duty 4. Single player has the same static enemy spawn 
 symptom. The perk system has been revamped tremendously to the point where this title is actually 
 innovative and not just another Madden or Tiger Woods and Treyarch has done really well. It is 
 more realistic as in you can easily hide in schrubberies like you can in Crysis Wars. VOIP seems 
 to be clearer as well. World at War is more competitive than Call of Duty 4 and should be compared 
 to Far Cry 2 for shooter of the year. The sound portion seems to be more tweaked towards EAX 5 
 rather than other sound card type's systems. I feel that the textures have been modeled more towards 
 realism and not a rag doll physics competition. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hossein_e
Rating: 3
Date: Nov 21, 2008 11:14 am PT
Review:  when I hear about call of duty from every one, I expect a very wonderful, amazing, revolutionary 
 game, Infinity ware always do its works in best way, but I do not know why "Activition" used to 
 change to, move to, down in stead of up.
  in any way, in World at War, sounds was very bad (in my 8 channel sound) . sound of explosion was 
 very synthetic. shooting sounds was not amazing. and another sound.
  on the other side, the guns had been improved in some ways, but German guns were awesome terrible. 
 some bugs have been exited. you can not shoot from distance.
  any way, I more feel playing Medal of Honor than call of duty.
  at the end, bonus of patience 
 for ending of game was NAZI ZOMBIE !!!!!!!!! I do not hate zombie games but this is historic game 
 not sci-fi or modern first person shooting.
  if I was not playing call of duty, my score was 8 but for call of duty games, only3 no more.
 
  I hope the next game in call of duty games will be better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: monco59
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 21, 2008 8:13 am PT
Review:  Gameplay - 9.5
  Visuals - 9
  Audio - 6
  Story/Multiplayer - 10
  Chin Factor - 10
  
  TrueScore - 8.9
  
  "The Good War is back and it's better than ever"
  
  You'd be hard-pressed 
 to find a gamer today who hasn't heard of the Call of Duty franchise. After wresting the crown 
 of premier WWII shooter from Medal of Honor, CoD has enjoyed tremendous success, with 9 games in 
 the series so far and millions of units sold. To the shock (and delight) of many, last year's Call 
 of Duty 4: Modern Warfare took the series from it's trademark WWII setting and into the modern 
 day. Now, almost precisely a year later, Call of Duty returns to the Good War, courtesy of Treyarch.
 
  
  Not much has really changed in that period, both for better and worse. World at War doesn't blaze 
 new ground and it often feels familiar to a fault. Yet, despite these shortcomings, it's hard not 
 to get swept up in the intense action and sweeping set pieces that go hand in hand with any Call 
 of Duty game. You'll still shoot your way from Point A to Point B in highly scripted levels that 
 are often nothing more than twisting alleyways, despite their open appearance. You'll still engage 
 in firefights where the enemy respawns endlessly until you manage to reach your objective. And 
 yes, you'll still have loads of fun, enjoying the highly polished gameplay and tried-and-true mechanics. 
 In an effort to add some fresh pizzazz, Treyarch added a few new weapons into the familiar arsenal 
 you'd expect from a WWII shooter. The two most notable (although far from original or new) additions 
 are the bayonet and the flamethrower. Out of the two, the bayonet fails to add any real change. 
 Sure, impaling a Japanese soldier desperately trying to banzai your ass is a great deal of fun 
 (especially if you manage to shoot him in the gut immediately after, as he's staggering about) , 
 but the fact that only a few weapons are equipped this way means it's a rare indulgence that has 
 little bearing on the actual gameplay. Conversely, the enemy will use this maneuver often and quite 
 effectively. However, the flamethrower, while not a new idea in gaming either, is so well implemented 
 and utilized in a number of levels that it is a genuinely effective (albeit extremely sadistic) 
 tool . Not only is it imperative to hose down bunkers and entrenched enemies with fiery death from 
 time to time, it's an exhilirating experience to boot. Trust me, you'll be toasting Tojo every 
 chance you get. As a nice touch, the flames will set fire to any surrounding vegetation, though 
 the damage is not as extensive or long-lasting as in Far Cry 2.
  
  The story alternates between Pvt. Miller, a Marine Raider fighting againts the Japanese in the 
 Pacific Front and Pvt. Dimitri Petrenko, a Russian shocktrooper fighting his way into Berlin. Though 
 not nearly as riveting as Modern Warfare's storyline, it serves as a useful excuse for jumping 
 between two very different fronts. This difference is apparent in the wildly differing level design 
 and enemy behavior of the American and Russian campaigns. The Germans pose a traditional threat, 
 using conventional tactics and generally playing by the book. The Russian campaign is still extremely 
 brutal, with both sides killing unarmed and injured soldiers at whim. On a few occasions, you're 
 even asked to join in. The Japanese are a very different foe though, which serves to mix up the 
 otherwise familiar gameplay. Japanese soldiers will often lay boobytraps, climb up trees in order 
 to snipe, rush you in mad banzai charges, spring up from underground "spiderholes", play dead until 
 just the right moment as well as use other devious guerilla tactics. This makes the American campaign 
 a unique experience in all it's nerve-wracking glory. At the end of the day though, both campaigns 
 are intense, bloody affairs with many memorable instances. Following along Modern Warfare's footsteps, 
 World at War features both a sniper mission and a bombing/strafing run aboard a PBY Catalina, though 
 each is decidedly different when compared to it's predecessor. Your stint onboard the PBY is an 
 especially nice addition, since it contrasts nicely with Modern Warfare's cold and methodic AC-130 
 level by thrusting you into the middle of the action and carnage.
  
  Unfortunately, the singleplayer campaign is about as short as Modern Warfare's. Thanks to a four 
 player online co-op campaign mode though, the game has some serious replayability. Treyarch also 
 decided to lengthen the game with the inclusion of a silly yet entertaining mode called Nazi Zombies 
 or Nacht der Untoten. Just like the name implies, you and up to three others are holed up inside 
 a reinforced yet dilapitated building, tasked with fending off the undead Nazi hordes. You get 
 points for killing zombies and fixing the barricades, which in turn allows you to purchase better 
 weapons and open up new areas of the house. With the right group of people, this mode can be immensely 
 fun.
  
  The multiplayer portion builds off of the solid foundation laid by Infinity Ward in Modern Warfare. 
 The gameplay is practically unchanged, with create-a-class, leveling, rewards and perks making 
 a comeback. Naturally, this being WWII, the weapons and abilities have been given a makeover. When 
 you get seven kills in a row without dying, instead of Modern Warfare's attack chopper, you're 
 rewarded with a pack of attack dogs that tear the enemy apart. Vehicles are also thrown into the 
 mix, along with some vehicle-specific perks. With all the old modes (Headquarters, Search & Destroy, 
 Team Deathmatch etc.) and two new ones (War, a Battlefield-esque control point grab and the iconic 
 Capture the Flag) , World at War has all the makings of a classic online shooter.
  
  World at War uses Call of Duty 4's engine and it still manages to impress. Not only is the framerate 
 mostly smooth, even during the most hectic of firefights, but the level of detail is quite astounding. 
 Character models are detailed and varied and they move realistically, thanks to some impressive 
 motion capturing. The lighting is top notch, particularly near the end of the game when levels 
 take on an almost apocalyptic feel. The game also makes brilliant use of some terrific effects, 
 like ashes floating around the battlefield after an artillery barrage and the way blood splatters 
 in realistic fashion. World at War has few real faults when it comes to graphics, though it's not 
 a graphical powerhouse anymore. Facial animations could use some work and textures tend to look 
 a bit blurry in some levels. Likewise, water and smoke effects look a bit dated.
  
  WaW has all the makings for a terrific sound package. Treyarch tapped some considerable voice talent 
 for the game; the always astonishing Gary Oldman plays the part of a vicious and uber-patriotic 
 Russian, whereas the not-so astonishing (though he delivers a solid performance here) Kiefer Sutherland 
 portrays an American Marine that acts as a sobering counterpoint to Oldman's vitriolic character. 
 The ambient and weapon sounds are top notch, as has always been the case with CoD. World at War 
 also has the best soundtrack in the series so far, with masterfully remixed tunes that incorporate 
 typical, epic orchestral music with tense electrical and rock compositions. Each level manages 
 to outdo the former as the score keeps ramping up the pressure. However, despite all this, the 
 audio stumbles in two extremely important aspects. The mixing is off, resulting in weird balance 
 issues, where some sounds are very low key and others practically pierce your ears. The more grievous 
 complaint however is the extremely low quality of the audio itself, especially apparent in the 
 voice acting. Everything sounds fuzzy, as if a poor filter was used in the sound design. Whether 
 or not it's actually a bug or just bad design (according to forums, either option is open) , it's 
 still inexcusable that a game of this caliber could have slipped past the QA department in this 
 shape. This is a thing that can be ignored without any real detriment to the actual game, but it's 
 still distracting at first and incredibly disappointing.
  
  Despite the grumblings of many, World at War shows there is still a lot of fight left in WWII as 
 a setting. And despite some obvious shortcomings, like the broken audio and straightforward story, 
 World at War is every bit as intense, polished and fun as it's predecessor. The presentation is 
 top notch, with cutscenes that mix real wartime footage with sleek, modern graphics. The short 
 singleplayer campaign is helped by a terrific multiplayer and co-op portion as well as the ever 
 fun Nazi mode. World at War doesn't reinvent the wheel by staying snugly in Modern Warfare's shadow, 
 but it does make for a thrilling and enjoyable ride that fans of WWII and shooters alike are sure 
 to appreciate. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Yaranhameleh
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 21, 2008 7:14 am PT
Review:  What can I say about this game.... it's great!
  First of all I'll talk about the multiplayer:
  I think it was well made, they added new things, 
 rifles have become deadly and snipers are fun aswell.
  I think there are enough maps, they are big, and you can use all weapons on any map you want.
 
  This game is very similar to CoD4 but CoD4 is abit old and its a great way to refresh it. You 
 get new guns (from WWII) , new perks, tanks and overall for the multiplay I'd give its 5/5.
  
  Now for the singleplayer:
  The singleplayer is also very well designed although there are 
 some flawess like, your guys will barely shoot something while enemy soldiers will get you from 
 far away, I understand that WWII is a story it self but the game itself needs somekind of a story 
 line. When I finished the game (in about 3 hours... short like all CoD games) I barely remembered 
 the name of the people I played with, if it's my self or my captain. On the other hand in CoD4 
 there was a great story line and in the end, I got sad when Gaz and Captain Price died (did Captain 
 Price die actually?) .
  And still this is a great game overall, especially the multiplayer part of it.
  I can't review 
 the co-op since I havn't played it yet by I assume it is fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CGavin
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 21, 2008 2:48 am PT
Review:  First off I would like to say that the single player aspect of this game is fun yet extremely short. 
 However, I feel that where this game most shines is its multiplayer feature.
  
  I am not a Call of Duty connoisseur this is the only Call of Duty game I have played since the 
 first one that came out in 2003. I come from other multiplayer games like the Battlefield series 
 and I am comparing a lot of my experience with those games to this one.
  
  I would like to tell you first what I find the most appealing about this game, focusing around 
 multiplayer:
  
  1. Intense gaming experience, once you enter the map you better get ready for a fight because its 
 likely going to very heated right off the bat. (This also is a complaint of mine, although contradictory 
 some unreal fans etc may enjoy this.)
  
  2. Perks, I enjoy earning XP in this game so you can unlock weapons and abilities along with accessories 
 with each weapon which can help you advance the more you play the game.
  
  3. Customized your player, you can make custom profiles that correspond to the type of gameplay 
 you desire at the given time. For example, if you want to become a heavy machine gunner that can 
 take on more damage this be done with a combination of weapon choices and perks.
  
  4. Large amount of places where you can gain cover from fire within every map.
  
  5. Weapons 
 seem very realistic to the WWII era. Dev's did a great job with models.
  
  6. Gore, I like the idea if you get hit by artillery.. Its likely you are going to lose a leg or 
 an arm.. etc.
  
  7. Hardcore mode... this is my favorite mode to play in. It is more realistic. A lot of one shot 
 one kills. If you get hit by a .308 caliber round in any vital area.. you are going down.
  
  Dislikes.. all of these will be fixed.. well.. hopefully.
  
  1. My biggest complaint is 
 spawning. So many times I have spawned right next to the enemy to be shot instantly or hit by artillery. 
 I am also guilty of killing freshly spawned and unaware enemies who haplessly end up in front of 
 my weapon. In Battlefield 2 you can pick your spawning point which perhaps should be incorporated 
 in this game... if they get bigger maps...
  
  2. Game needs bigger maps this can also be why the spawning is so bad. The maps for the most part 
 are small.. if you get into a game that has 30 or more people in it, it becomes too chaotic and 
 very hard to get your bearings. I know war is a chaotic thing, perhaps they put you in a place 
 where you can move into the chaos of war instead of throwing you in it.
  
  3. Tanks, they are too damned strong. If you get in a tank you will eventually get destroyed however 
 you are taking a ridiculous amount of them with you. They should make the tanks easier to destroy... 
 I was in a tank yesterday and I was hit countless times by explosives and bazooka fire yet i still 
 chugged along. This shouldn't happen, though I was eventually toast it should have happened a lot 
 sooner.
  
  4. Dogs... after you get a certain amount of kills in a row you will be able to unlock you dogs 
 which will be used to kill the enemy. These dogs spawn in a large pack wiping out many of the enemy. 
 I find them extremely annoying although you can kill them before they get you. I don't remember 
 dogs being used in WWII to this extent. Perhaps they should have considered planes to be called 
 in for a strafing mission. Anyhow the dogs are bearable just a nuisance.
  
  Thanks for reading.. I feel that I covered most of what I thought needed to be covered. I hope 
 to see you in game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Schnitzelfritz
Rating: 5
Date: Nov 20, 2008 9:18 am PT
Review:  With COD 4 I had no problems having a router and joining mp games. With COD world at war I have 
 to be straight into my dsl modem. This is a pain in the neck !! Really, port forwarding was fine 
 with COD 4 but I find myself so frustrated with this new connection issue. Activision needs to 
 fix this ASAP !!! They post that if you have ports open that its all good, yet they suggest that 
 you are not behind a router. Well the last time I looked most people are behind some kind of router. 
 And they do not want firewalls also ? Please. COD4 ran perfectly behind Routers , Firewalls, Whatever! 
 
  
  I really want to play this game since the graphics are beautiful, the co-op is great and I like 
 the addition of tanks. The gun sounds are different than COD4 , but this is a small thing compared 
 to how real this game looks.
  
  So on that note, go buy this game. But if you have a router you better wait until they have a patch 
 or leave yourself open without a router and firewall. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Flip_mod
Rating: 2.5
Date: Nov 20, 2008 8:28 am PT
Review:  U did the same game over and over agin... why WW2? when u have COD 1+2 about WW2? why not keep up 
 with the 4th one? about Irak or afganistan or something new with these days wapon.. and not WW2 
 with the japps.. I think its a borde copy of COD 1+2... nothing new except the flame thrower.. Sorry 
 Activison I want my money back.... not woth it at all.
  
  COD 4 was perfect game... a new age is born.. but this?? Oh my god... same SH*T. sorry for the S word 
 but u made me.
  
  And the Russians against German, come on.. I did this in COD 1+2... why agin?
  
  I were hoping 
 for the new co. with blizzard will make something good and not the same copy... come on guys... are 
 u after money only or a name in the market?? if u want money fine... but put something good and 
 not so crapy classic... its a copey... I thought it was COD 2 Im playing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mordaren60
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 20, 2008 7:51 am PT
Review:  Okey I guess.
  But why have they put another company on making Call of Duty?? Let Infinity Ward make their masterpieces 
 alone and don't let som other random company come in and make some OK games. And no one even takes 
 that up in the reviews. I haven't seen one so far that have said anything about it. If no have 
 to companies do the same series, at least point out which one is making which game..
  
  Ah, sorry I just can't shut up about this.. Well about the game, I guess it's OK. It's just that, 
 it doesn't have the wonderful feel from CoD4 and everything is just somewhat to fast. It's alot 
 of stuff to see yeah sure, but you don't got time to see anything. It's like, a bunker, clear bunker 
 move on, a trench, clear trench move on. Can't you just LEAVE CoD ALONE Treyarch!??
  
  If I wanna play some WWII games I much rather play CoD2 than this.. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Darthrocker
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 19, 2008 9:54 pm PT
Review:  Okay... world war 2 game have come and gone, and not many people tolerate them anymore, and only 
 a few games are good can pull this off, luckily this is one of them... now on with the review:
 
  
  Pro's:
  -combines cod 2 with cod 4 very well
  -great new perks
  -easy menu
  -i absolutely love games that have a co-op feature
  -lots of weapons to pick from
  -some nice 
 maps
  
  Con's:
  -short campaign (but it is understandable for making them this short because of co-operative play)
 
  -the weapons seem pretty weak... especialy when playing hardcore
  -some of the maps are too large
  -few bugs, (but any game has a bug, so i wasn't fussed about 
 this)
  
  Personal pro's and con's
  -i miss my desert eagle gun, the magnum takes two shots to kill where as the deagle was only one.
 
  -prestige mode to me seems pointless now that i have seen it, (i apologize for complaining that 
 cod 4 PC didn't have it)
  -tanks are fairly equal, they can sometimes be annoying or very helpful
  
  so there it is in 
 a little package... i personally enjoyed the game, but haven't abandoned cod 4 because of it... 
 and am looking forward to cod 6.
  
  i hope this has helped you make a decision on whether to buy or not... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shred
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 19, 2008 4:47 pm PT
Review:  Being a huge WWII history fanatic, I hate to admit, and do so reluctantly, but I feel that history 
 time-line has been over utilized in gaming. 
  
  Focusing back to the game itself, Treyarch has definitely re-justified itself with this title, 
 after releasing the not-so welcomed Call of Duty 3. The diverse environments immerse you in beautifully 
 rendered graphics sparkling with realistic detail. Since this game utilizes the same game engine 
 as COD4-Modern Warfare, the physics involved in the game are pretty much spot-on. As should be 
 expected though, the voice-overs can be a tad bit on the cheesy side. Where the game's biggest 
 flaw lies though, is it's lack of being unique from any other games of this genre. 
  
  Overall, this is a great game for someone who hasn't played every other WWII shooter to date. For 
 the rest of us though, it's another vicious cycle of redundancy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jango6
Rating: 3
Date: Nov 19, 2008 4:40 pm PT
Review:  I dont know how many times ive reloaded all the scenarios in the various difficulty settings, and 
 theres this thing that bugs me most about this game is that the AI is absolutely ridiculous.
  You have these team mates that fire about a million rounds at the wall NEXT to the target, enemy 
 AI where some schmuck on a tree can shoot you from about 500 yards (maybe im exaggerating a little) 
 and his buddies cant see me standing next to them.
  The controls arent responsive, and not to say the least level design needs a TON of work, Then 
 again everybody's a critic and this title was one i had a LOT of hopes pinned on.. its pity it ended 
 up like "CHROME".
  For all you guys looking for a good shooter check out "Brothers in arms hells highway" now thats 
 a satisfying game with absolutely wicked A. I 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fenixgenerals
Rating: 4
Date: Nov 19, 2008 2:09 pm PT
Review:  ive followed the call of duty games from the beginning.
  ive had got them all, played them all.
  call of duty had an awsome single player campaign, game 
 engine multiplayer and visuals for its time. world war 2 and the weapons were still fresh in this 
 game.
  Treyarch came along with call of duty 3. the implementation of vehicles and special abilities killed 
 the multiplayer and the game to play felt like it was before call of duty.
  call of duty 4 was a fresh game something everyone had been waited for. great visuals and awsome 
 gameplayer. the campaign was sheer amazement. the flaw those crappy abilities like air strikes 
 and choppers. (the most annoying things ever put in a game) but overall amazing
  Treyarch returns with call of duty world at war. campaign was great impressed me a lot. the graphics 
 look back dated ( i presume coz Treyarch suck and based it around the consoles rather than pc) 
 the ability of 4 player co op on the campaign, ive been waiting for it and they gave it. (nice 
 1)
  the era is old they need something fresh other than world war 2. the multiplayer is ruined vehicles 
 are back on some maps, the calling in of dogs (wtf) multiplayer gameplay seems slow and a general 
 pile of well ****
  
  thats y i give it only a 4.0 because the campaign saved its ass 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cholmpocket1941
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 19, 2008 11:59 am PT
Review:  Have been playing since COD1. Each one is better than the last. The graphics are getting better 
 and better alouth this is not really better graphically than COD4. Gameplay is intense as always. 
 Single player is fun but monotonous. Its the MP that I like. Almost didn't even want to play SP 
 - just jump right to MP since I am a COD4 MP addict. The Pacific war in SP is new and refreshing. 
 The Russian campaign is good but we have seen it before. Overall a great game (a lot of us are 
 spoiled and critisize things that we do not have the technology to fix just yet) .
  
  The good:
  - Great graphics
  - Great "death" animations (blood a little overdone though)
 
  - Runs great on lower-end computers. Have a P4 3.0 OC to 3.9 MHZ with 8800GT and play on max everything 
 @ 1600x1200 on a 21" CRT. I usually get between 30-50 FPS which is playable enough.
  - Lots of drama and emotion in SP.
  - Variety of enviroments is great. Really enjoyed the Pacific 
 Campaign.
  - Lots of difficulty levels. I went through on "regular". Maybe will try veteran later (but MP 
 is where I always head to)
  - MP is good as always and the reason I bought the game. Just getting into it now and have to re-learn 
 the weapons and maps as I have been playing Modern Warfare for a year. Love the ranking and custom 
 weapons systems.
  
  The not-so-good:
  - Why in multiplayer can you choose Russian weapons in the Pacific? Or visa versa. The weapons 
 classes that you set up should be broken into 4 segments - Russian, German, US, Japanese. So if 
 you want to play a Japanese soldier you should be limited to a Japanese weapon class. Duh. It kind 
 of kills the realism to have a PPSH-41 in the Pacific! Or a Nambu in Berlin!
  - AI in single player is poor at times. If you stop and look at what's happening, you will see 
 enemy soldiers just standing out in the open looking stupid and asking to be shot between the eyes, 
 Most of the enemy are "sitting ducks" and can be taken out en masse. Maybe this is just the evolution 
 of technology. With faster computers we will get better A1. In Crysis I say the same thing - the 
 A1 is only OK. 
  - Clipping and "floating" players while running.
  - Tightly scripted and channeled SP. If Crysis and COD could be combined that would be great. I 
 am tiring of SP that channels you and is so highly scripted. COD is great but very scripted. I 
 would love to have a "sandbox" style COD. Wow that would be something else. Maybe someday. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kryptos1000
Rating: 6.5
Date: Nov 19, 2008 7:31 am PT
Review:  I played the single player in regular mode, and I found that if your standing next to an enemy 
 and he shoot you, nothing happens! That happened alot in this game and it did not happen in Modern 
 Warfare. In single player you only fought as American or Russian. At least in CoD2 you fought as 
 American, Russian, and as Brit's. Where are the British in this one? They did fight in in WW2, 
 didn't they? Single player is gritty, intense, and insane. The graphics in this installment are 
 great. The blood splatter was great, but where was all the blood on the ground from that splatter? 
 The ground either soaked it up when it hit or they just forgot to add it to the game I thought. 
 I could go on but why. My point is, the game is excellent for co-op and multiplayer, but I think 
 the single player is lacking in alot of areas.
  
  
  Kryptos 
::::::

::::::
UserName: andreipascu
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 19, 2008 4:35 am PT
Review:  god grafics i'd give it a ... 9.2 it think 
  story mode great a 9.7 is a good score for it 
  bad parts : you can't go on your own in the forest 
 and flank you enemys because there are unatural barries actually natural ones but ... come one 
 who want a wall of gras in front of you and the bad part of this that the plat wall is too small 
 and you want to go past it too go on your own : ( the sniper is very cool and realistic the breath 
 stopping is a great ideea that means sniper part 10 out of 10 is pretty anoying that in the blow 
 up nazist tanks you have to throw a wepon to use the rocket luncher the Hud are very good and i 
 just love the ideea of the new minimap ;) 
  enough with the bad parts :) ) 
  good parts : the flame thrower is good but not very realistic because of the non stop shooting 
 ( it's not actually non stop because it over heats ) it's cool that when you shoot a german nazist 
 ( or other unfrendly AI ) the damege is fatal and it's a lot of blood when you do that and a other 
 pretty strange thing is the regenerating life ( that in my opinion is cool because you don't need 
 health kits ) actually that's pretty all 
  P. S. why can't you use vechicles ! if you could fire tanks and bomb with airplanes that will be 
 great :D 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jafarkofahi
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 18, 2008 9:24 pm PT
Review:  The last COD I played was COD 2, I heard 4 was not that much so I didnt buy it. But with this one, 
 its an excellent game that worth the wait. The multiplayer is tense and interesting as usual. Although 
 you need to keep playing the game and gain rank, or at the end you will have weak weapons that 
 takes 5 shots to kill some1 while the rest kill you with a single shot. 
  
  The Co-OP game is a new way of enjoying such a game, really thats cool feature, although its somewhat 
 buggy, for some reason I can not join open games. 1/8 I join and rest nothing happen. Both Co-OP 
 game and Zombi mode worth wasting my time.
  
  I enjoyed the Multiplayer and Co-op, to a level that I didnt start with the single player campaign 
 yet ;p so I cant say anything about that.
  
  Bottom line: If you like FPS, you MUST BUY THIS ONE. For me, its the best game that I played since 
 a long time.
  
  Regards 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GetafixOz
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 18, 2008 3:52 pm PT
Review:  CODWAW carries on the quality of gameplay found in all COD products. The level of immersion found 
 in the two theaters of war is superb. I actually found myself laughing now and then as Japanese 
 troops popped seemingly out of nowhere and bayonetted me before I could react. Why laughter ? Because 
 it is pleasurable to be so fully misled by the AI.
  
  CODWAW is not without its issues. Because of the scripted nature of all COD encounters, you can 
 sometimes see and shoot at enemies and have no result because you are not standing in the area 
 that the enemy is scripted to be a part of. Painfull, but once you work out why it is happening 
 you get over it.
  
  The Gamespot review is pretty much spot on for me so I will spare the detail except to say. Those 
 that have given this game 4.5 and written Suxorz! What exactly did you expect? It is COD and it 
 delivers, end of story! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hughcostner
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 18, 2008 12:38 pm PT
Review:  The game is without a doubt one of the greatest historic FPS. In some missions the game tries to 
 innovate, others is the basic formula, not that I don't like! I think everyone remembers the plane 
 level, in the previous COD, so this one isn't going to disappoint... ;)
  
  Machine wise is pretty standard, the game runs with full specs in my 1 year old PC. (dual core 
 2.4 - 4DDR2-800 - 8600GT)
  
  The only big flaw is the engine it self, that continues with its unusual spawning of enemies until 
 you move on. Basically if you remain in the same spot, no matter how many you kill they will continue 
 coming, then you move forward, to one of the objectives and magically all the enemies disappear.
 
  
  None the less, nothing like a head shot with some of those historic weapons. 
  
  And of course, the co-op zombie mission will be in history! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kemnaly
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 18, 2008 7:11 am PT
Review:  What can I say, Call of Duty World at War really does looks good, with it being one of the best 
 First Person Shooter games in the Q4 of this year. First, the action is even more intense than 
 its Predecessor, it even as a Cooperative mode which makes the game more interesting to play for 
 those who want to play the game's storyline with a friend.
  
  With it based in the Japanese territory in World War 2, Call of Duty World at War changes the phase 
 of COD4 which was based in the Middle-East, but still pulled off the best World War 2 game I have 
 ever seen. The game is designed on the same graphics engine used to design Call of Duty 4, but 
 with some more tweaks to it, eg. The Scene make the camera flages for enemy more realistic, you'll 
 just never know where the will come from in bushy areas. Enemies are able to hide in trees which 
 makes the game more interesting. The game has an incredible intense starting with back to back 
 action that will have you earning for more. The game also have a deathcard feature which allow you 
 to collect death-cards in each stage, with each death-card having a specific feature to it.
  
  Though the game is interesting, the game requires the same Hardware has Call of Duty 4 but 
 for the best visuals, getting a good graphics card will pull off all the visual effects that a 
 gaming system would do, but the game plays well and look good on medium settings.
  
  Overall Call of Duty World at War would be recommended for people who want to play an intense First-Person 
 Shooter game and also for those who are continuing their Call of Duty Game collection. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BigDaddyVN
Rating: 5
Date: Nov 17, 2008 5:17 pm PT
Review:  I've never been dissappointed in a COD game, until now! Starting with the click of the Icon to 
 start, set your stop watch for 5 minutes, and go do something else (unless you just really like 
 staring at a black screen) , because that's how long it takes for the opening menu to come up. And 
 once you choose your solo campaign (continue or choose a mission) , guess what... set your watch 
 again, because you have another 5 minutes of black screen coming at you before the mission loads, 
 and when you get through with that mission ( and some of them are very short) , and the next one 
 is getting ready to load... (now would be a good time to go put some popcorn in the microwave) , 
 because here comes your favorite screen again!!! 
  Clearly, Activision and Treyarch were in such a hurry to get this game out, that they forgot to 
 even test it, either that, or else they all fell asleep while waiting for it to load, and the shipping 
 dept. accidentally sent it out by mistake.
  When you actually do get to play the game, it's fairly good. As long as you ignore the sad Enemy 
 AI, or the place where if you stop to fight them, the enemy keeps spawning directly through a wall 
 in a house and never stop (oh, was that a spoiler??) Or the repeating patterns of enemies that 
 have always been the trademark of COD.
  I did enjoy the flame thrower though, even though after playing Fallout 3, it wasn't my first fire 
 fight.
  I don't know how the console versions faired, but as for the PC, it would have rated about 7.5, 
 if it wasn't for the unforgiveably long load times... but as is, I don't know if I even have the 
 patience to try to finish the game.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: DBROWN9
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 17, 2008 5:14 pm PT
Review:  Review rig
  
  Vista 64 bit Ultimate
  4GB DDR2 Ram
  Geforce 8800 GTS
  Intel E8400 1333 FSB
  
  
  Story
  
  Yet another WWII shooter, this time set in Indo-China 
 following the attack on Pearl Harbour, where the yanks are fighting the Japanese. Yes its been 
 done a hundred times before but COD retains its title as one of the better war FPS games.
  
  
  Graphics
  
  Based on the COD4 engine, you probably know what to expect - sheer excellence. 
 However it is noticeable that the gfx are slightly improved on COD4 due to better lighting effects.
 
  
  
  Stability
  
  Excellent - no bugs or crashes
  
  
  Sound
  
  Audio is very good but some of the NPC shouts can get a bit repetitive. Also for some reason I 
 appear to have trouble getting the sound to play in 5.1 as opposed to stereo and this is quite 
 noticeable.
  
  
  Gameplay
  
  This is where the game falls down. To be honest it feels nothing more than a COD4 mod. there is 
 nothing new here. Yes the single player campaign is fun but very short. The story line is not as 
 gripping or addictive as COD4. The game is very linear and channelled and there are many invisible 
 walls. This is made worse by the fact that there are a constant slew of grenades being thrown and 
 you can't get away from them due to glass walls. We're in 2008 now and I thought this sort of thing 
 had gone a few years ago following Far Cry. Whilst I didn't like Brothers In Arms Hell's Highway, 
 that game is technically superior to COD5.
  
  However the game is generally balanced and guns feel realisitic. Generarally its 2-3 shots per 
 kill unless you get a head shot.
  
  The single player campaign is very short. You are then left with the multiplayer missions which 
 are exactly the same as COD4 in style and content. But the maps jsut don't seem fun to play and 
 it doesn't keep you wanting to come back for more.
  
  This really should have been released as a cut price expansion pack than a full retail release. 
 In fact every time I play this, after half an hour or so I want to put it down and boot up COD4.
 
  
  WWII games have been done to death, how many times are we going to have to "Take out that MG42 
 nest". 
  
  COD4 was refreshing, new and innovative, backed by a great and contemporary storyline that many 
 gamers could identify with. COD5 however is back to the same old dross.
  
  Whilst this is a good game and certainly worth playing, I would wait until after xmas when it reaches 
 the bargain bin. At the moment there are much better new games out there such as Dead Space or 
 Fallout 3.
  
  
  Graphics 10
  Sound 8
  Gameplay 8
  Stability 10
  Value for money 7
  
  Overall 8
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: bungeeeman
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 17, 2008 1:58 pm PT
Review:  Call of Duty: World at War is in many ways a victim of the series' previous successes. Most of 
 the features of the game are essentially similar to those of CoD 4, but the setting is returned 
 to the WWII base of the first three games. This robs the game of the novelty that CoD 4 brought, 
 with new weapons and environments, and instead replaces them with the same kinds of things we had 
 seen before. But even if this game doesn't break too much new ground, it is an extremely solid 
 offering. The single player campaign is engaging (even if it does jump around rapidly between levels 
 and campaigns in the war) , and the multiplayer has exciting levels and a solid ranking system that 
 lives up to the depth of it's predecessor. In short, if you loved the previous call of duty games, 
 then you'll enjoy world at war, just don't expect it to be much different. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kronos20
Rating: 6.5
Date: Nov 21, 2008 11:55 am PT
Review:  The MP play is pretty addictive, the weapons and progression are nice including the re-addition 
 of CTF and WAR modes as well as prestige ranks (missing in COD4 PC version) and I personally liked 
 the removal of a certain number of headshots to complete a challenge (it always kind of annoyed/got 
 old with me in COD4) . With that being said, other than the addition of tanks and friends/squads, 
 essentially unchanged from COD4 other than the WWII theme. 
  
  On the other hand, the single-player is just plain lame. There is no story whatsoever, the levels 
 are very short, many levels feel empty AND restricted (weird combination) , the AI is not all that 
 interesting, and it all feels the same everywhere (different map but feels the same, even between 
 pacific and european theater) . There were some 'different' fun levels, like the plane and tank 
 missions, but even they felt very lacking in detail, uncompelling voice overs, and an overall lack 
 of ambiance (whereas COD4 did a fabulous job of making you feel like you were really there and 
 part of something) .
  
  MP is addictive (though it can be very unbalanced, not to mention that regrettably cheats are already 
 available and easily found (as witnessed on Wednesday as an a** with a level 65 and flamethrower 
 within two days) , but the SP is forgettable. Still recommend it b/c of the strength of the multiplayer, 
 but only if you loved COD4. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zxssded
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 17, 2008 1:14 am PT
Review:  The game call of Duty: worl at war feels, to me, like a mod to CoD4, much like CS from Half Life. 
 Its not a bad game, but it just feels like CoD4 set in WWII.
  
  Good: The game is CoD4. nuf said dude. Game is alot easier than the last game. Theres a FLAMETHROWER!!!! 
 the single player is longer than CoD4 but not by much. a total of 10 hours, roughly. Nazi Zombies. 
 really, its great. a small tip for anyone, but dont unlock the first parts of the house until you 
 have like 5k or more, makes killing the zobmies alot easier because they are in a small area, but 
 if your unlock the rest of the house, more will come in since there are more windows around. also 
 around lvl 6 and over, zombies start to run. didnt know til the 6 time i played so. yeah. Multiplayer 
 has nothing new.
  
  Bad: Well, its Cod4. there not much new content avaliable really. Death cards are pretty useless. 
 You know that gun that normally kills people with one shot. not a sniper. its like a rilfe. like 
 the ones in Day of Defeat. the one shot kill gun, well there isnt a one shot kill wepon in the 
 game, it pretty annoying. to me. (: multiplayer has nothing new.
  
  Its a great game, theres no doubt, but there just isnt enough new content. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: antipunt1
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 16, 2008 11:16 pm PT
Review:  Cod5 is, after some thought, actually not that hard to review. Essentially, the major critic reviews 
 kind of have it spot-on.
  
  The game itself is not bad; the reason is why? Because it follows the CoD4 formula to the most 
 part. It has the same engine, looks similar, acts similar, and has the same face-paced action that 
 keeps both games involved and fun to play. All in all, this is NOT a bad game; with all that it 
 accomplishes, it just can't be.
  
  Talk about exciting pacing, good music, beautiful graphics [thank you CoD4] , and a story that isn't 
 cringe worthy.
  
  But speaking of story there are the reasons why this isn't CoD4 material. The story is bland, with 
 a huge 'been there, done that' feel. Also it's largely uninspired, but thats not to say its cringe-worthy. 
 It's just that it doesn't execute beautifully like CoD4. Actually... let's just flat out say it 
 isn't that great.
  
  Story aside, however, this game packs a gameplay punch. It just can't be a bad game, but at the 
 same time, doesn't quality as a 'great' game. It's just a pretty good game that plays on its strengths. 
 See basically, copying isn't always a bad thing. Because CoD5 is like a bastard-clone of CoD4, 
 it can't really go wrong. 
  
  With with regards to creativity, this is a bad bad thing. Combined with its lackluster story, CoD5 
 just can't match up to its older brother CoD4. However, one just can't call this a bad game. There 
 are many segments and action packed sequences that just kept convincing me, that this wasn't really 
 worthy of berating and slashing. To call this game a crap-hole, is just kinda unfair, so I'm not 
 going to go down that path. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pirateotobx
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 16, 2008 8:13 pm PT
Review:  Treyarch must've spent all their money paying Keifer Southerland and Gary Oldman to do the voices.. The 
 battle effects are terrible... most of the guns sound like cap guns.. explosions sound muffled.. Graphics 
 aren't as crisp.. for some reason, probably the most annoying thing to me, your profile and settings 
 are stored on a remote server, many already ran in to that problem this weekend... no tweaking the 
 config file on your pc... with that being said I like the game more and more, the more I play it. 
 Theres a decent story in the campaign and I like the multiplayer maps and the WWII setting. I just 
 hope there are some major patches in the works to correct some of the problems mentioned above. 
 All I have to say buy I need 800 chracters to submit sooo... AAAAAAAAA AAAABB BBBBBBBB BBBCCCCCCCCCDDD 
 DDDDD DDDEEEEE EEEEFFFFFFFFFFFG GGGGGGG HHHHHHIIIIIIIII IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIJJJJ 
 JJJJJJJJ JJJJJJJJJJJJJ JJJJJJJJJJK KKKKKKKKKK KKKKKK KKKKKKKKKKLLL LLLLLL LLLLLLL LLLLLLLLLLL LLLLMMMMM 
 MMMMM MMMMMMM MMMNNNN NNNNNNNNNN NNNNNNN OOOOOOOO OOOOOOPP PPPPPPP PPPPPPP......... blah, blah, blah 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Seerforsale
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 16, 2008 7:17 pm PT
Review:  Well, When I first heard about world at war, I was excited then I saw who was making it. Treyarch. 
 After call of duty 3 and big red one, I wasn't ready for another dissapointment from Treyarch, 
 But. SUprisingly it was an ok game. Some things deter it from being a great game but none the less 
 still good.
  ---------------------------------
  PROS
  PErks, Challenges and unlockable weapons.
  Great graphics
  Fun multiplayer
  Nazi zombie mode!
 
  Gritty dark mature singleplayer
  Great story
  Flamethrower
  Action packed.
  Longer then most COD campaigns
  GORE
  --------------------------------
  Cons
  WW2 again..?
 
  Hard. 
  Vehicle combat isn't strong
  Only one vehicle
  Imbalanced weapons
  Flamethrower = overpowered
  Bolt action and some rifles sound incredibly WEAK
  ---------------------------------
 
  Call of duty: W@W is a great game. You should defintly try it out.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Random1992
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 16, 2008 11:14 am PT
Review:  I've played all of the Call of Duties, and I must say that Call Of Duty: World at War captures 
 the feel of WWII better than any of the others. Just the atmosphere, particularly in the Russian 
 campaign, seems emotional and gruesome.
  
  Graphically, World at War uses the CoD4 engine successfully and to its' maximum potential. It creates 
 a beautiful atmosphere in which you feel you're really there.
  
  The game plays completely excellent. The way your character interacts, and fights feels surprisingly 
 real. Especially whilst using the newly added flamethrower. The fire effects in this game are beautiful 
 and terribly realistic. This adds to the realism of the single player campaign.
  
  The only thing that is a downfall for me, is that the solo mode feels like it's strictly the third 
 and final chapter of WWII. I feel like all of the earlier battles have already been fought, and 
 World at War is JUST the end of the war. I guess because all the battles are fought in 1944 and 
 1945, and the fact that the American campaign includes the defeat of the Japanese, and the Russian 
 campaign includes the final battle against the Germans in Berlin.
  I just feel that if the game was extended, perhaps with one more campaign BEFORE the current two, 
 then the game would just feel more complete.
  
  But, the final battles of both campaigns are insanely epic, and include a real feeling of success 
 after the defeat of both the Japanese army and the German army for the last time. It feels like 
 all you've worked for in Call of Duty, comes to a close, and you win. It genuinely feels like the 
 end of World War II, and is executed to absolute perfection. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Asja13
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 16, 2008 10:52 am PT
Review:  When I first picked up the game I had high standards, and I can gladly say the game lived up to 
 it.
  
  So let's just start at the beginning.
  
  The graphic is grate. It catches the atmosphere and not to mention walking through all that tall 
 grass knowing crazy jabs are gonna jump at you any time makes it just even better. Characters look 
 good especially the Russian Sargent with part missing of his trigger finger on the right arm. The 
 details are in every way stunning.
  
  The story is old school and we all know it. When we sit down we know who is gonna win we know how 
 the game ends but still the game manages to surprise you all the way in to the end. There are few 
 times where I just sat there staring at the screen in shock.
  
  I did feel sad that nether one of the main characters were the one telling the stories the Sargent 
 of each team told them. It made it harder to connect with the characters as well as I would have 
 wanted to. 
  
  Now I found couple of problems with the game. First is that you have to be so darn fast hitting 
 the 'V' button when someone get's you down.
  
  Also you have to have a patch for this game if you don't want ot live some problems. And well the 
 last thing is something I hope only happened to me but in the last mission I kept on getting motion 
 sickness.
  
  Now for the good part. You get to play with all the fun toys from Molotov cocktail to tanks. So 
 if anyone is worried they won't get to play their favorite part of the games like the plane and 
 such then don't worry they got it all this time. 
  
  I recommend this game for anyone who likes shooters because this one is a classic and they still 
 know how to do it. But remember to patch the game up front to get the best experience. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: paladin125
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 16, 2008 10:33 am PT
Review:  When I first played this game, It felt very close to call of duty 4. In some ways, that is good. 
 I was expecting a little more innovation-but what do you expect? It was Treyarch that made it after 
 all. Still, I am very impressed and found that it was not a disappointment. Weather or not it is 
 better than CoD4 is debatable, but it is defantly very close. I think a few bugs and a dry campaign 
 hold W@W back from a higher score, but it is still well worth your money. Treyarch did add some 
 nice perks too, such as the friends list (took 'em five games to actually put that in) and the 
 zombie mode. Not to mention the awesome co-op, the multiplayer just has that good Call of Duty 
 feel to it that makes it very addictive and fun.
  
  Pros-
  Worth your money, friends list, 4 player co-op, Nazi Zombie mode, fun multiplayer, balanced vehicles, 
 good attachments and perks, packs a lot of content and game modes
  
  Cons-
  A few interface and crash bugs, dry and average campaign, and no cross-console play : ( 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Saurosy
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 16, 2008 8:20 am PT
Review:  I think, they should make modern Call of Duty shooter, like Call of Duty: Modern Warfare ! But 
 Call of Duty 5 isn`t bad at all ! Actually - I`ts great ! I can`t tell which is better,- Brothers 
 in arms: Hells Highway or Call of Duty 5. But let`s review Call of Duty 5: World at War.
  
  
  Graphics - 8
  Audio - 9
  Gameplay - 9
  War feeling - 10
  
  
  Graphics - It`s too 
 bad that they made Call of Duty 5 on Call of Duty 4 engine ! They needed to make new engine for 
 new game ! Makes sense, eh ? But graphics isn`t bad ! 
  
  Audio - Nice heroic songs playing in background, nice shooting sounds etc. One thing I didn`t like 
 - breath holding when shooting with sniper rifle. They needed to make breath holding with heart 
 beat and all other sounds need to sound like from far distance.
  
  Gameplay - There is nothing to complain about, except one tiny problem - CHARACTER HAVE NO BODY 
 ! Where the hell is his body ? Is he a flying invalid or something like that ? At least I wan to 
 see legs, but no, he don`t have them. I know, in lot of first person shooter games characters don`t 
 have body, but this is 21 century ! Dark Messiah Of Might And Magic - Great example how it needs 
 to be ! They made whole body, and it was soo cool !
  
  War feeling - Yup, war feeling in this game is great ! I love it ! Germany vs Russia - beuatiful 
 buildings, armys running, snipers on the roofs, tanks. Japan vs America - Jungles, snipers in trees, 
 tanks and so on, and so on. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SNAKE_2008
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 16, 2008 7:09 am PT
Review:  At first I wasn't sure whether or not to buy this game, being that all the hype wasn't too good, 
 but I am so very glad I bought it that I almost would've payed double! Everything about this game 
 is simply so well executed! I started playing on veteran difficulty on CoD4 about two or so months 
 before this game was released, and the transfer from modern back to WWII was surprisingly good, 
 and easy to adjust to. Veteran difficulty on this game is harder than on CoD4, but executed much 
 better because of the constant checkpoints placed after almost every "challenging" area in the 
 game. Is the best first person shooter so far on the wii .multiplayer online good game and good 
 graphics .i just cant stop playing once started i highly recomend this game buy it please dont 
 think about it just buy it ........ the game play and history ww2 what else can you ask for??? right 
 go and buy this game right now!!!!
  10 out of 10 possible game of the year !!!! thats right you will like this incredible game and 
 you not going to be able to stop playing it im telling you the best cod of the series so far improving 
 every time
  call of duty world at war WW2 online multiplayer good graphics great gameplay and lots of shooting 
 and war, guns, bullets, blood
  no need nothing else just all time resume in a disc .
  i hope you make the right choice and go 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jerryatricrejec
Rating: 6
Date: Nov 16, 2008 2:57 am PT
Review:  I'm really tired of developers making these games with completely shoddy playing time! This game 
 is very short and if you play co-op with people who know how to play (even on Veteran) it's even 
 shorter. 4-5 hours if you're lucky.
  
  I'm sick of paying premium prices for games that only have a few hours of play time. The multiplayer 
 maps are no different to the campaign maps which would be ok if the campaign was a little longer 
 than a fart in a dust storm.
  
  Don't expect single player with this. The multiplayer is the best in the series so far and that's 
 the only reason this title holds weight. Other than that the graphics are good and the sound is 
 fun. Runs relatively well with most hardware but does have a number of bugs without the 1.1 patch 
 which is well over 300mb big if you're downloading.
  
  Activision have a COD 6 in the wings and one can't help but think this is a money grabbing scheme. 
 They give us an incredibly short title and develop another one a few months later only to charge 
 us for a full title yet again.
  
  This should really be classed as an expansion and not 'another notch under Activion's belt' 
 
  
  The storyline follows the usual sad set of events which have bored us to tears. The only reason 
 people have gone off the World War genre is because the storylines suck. We all know the story. 
 Developers are too lazy to get some of the really interesting and good World War events and implement 
 them into the game. There are so many incredible events within World War one and two which have 
 the potential to really intrigue gamers but sadly, yet again, we are let down.
  
  Pros: Some of the best multiplayer fun around. Great co-op fun. Great LAN. Awesome Nazi Zombies 
 gametype.
  
  Cons: Too short. very poor single player. Co-op missions are sometimes only five minutes long and 
 after each mission return you to the menu. Single players beware - not worth the money. Sad storyline.
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: himluis1
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 15, 2008 7:43 pm PT
Review:  Is the best first person shooter so far on the wii .multiplayer online good game and good graphics 
 .i just cant stop playing once started i highly recomend this game buy it please dont think about 
 it just buy it ........ the game play and history ww2 what else can you ask for??? right go and 
 buy this game right now!!!!
  10 out of 10 possible game of the year !!!! thats right you will like this incredible game and 
 you not going to be able to stop playing it im telling you the best cod of the series so far improving 
 every time
  call of duty world at war WW2 online multiplayer good graphics great gameplay and lots of shooting 
 and war, guns, bullets, blood
  no need nothing else just all time resume in a disc .
  i hope you make the right choice and go right now and buy this game or as a christmas gift 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ADisasterpiece
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 21, 2009 11:56 am PT
Review:  At first I wasn't sure whether or not to buy this game, being that all the hype wasn't too good, 
 but I am so very glad I bought it that I almost would've payed double! Everything about this game 
 is simply so well executed! I started playing on veteran difficulty on CoD4 about two or so months 
 before this game was released, and the transfer from modern back to WWII was surprisingly good, 
 and easy to adjust to. Veteran difficulty on this game is harder than on CoD4, but executed much 
 better because of the constant checkpoints placed after almost every "challenging" area in the 
 game. I found myself going over certain areas only 3 or 4 times before I could figure out a working 
 strategy and break through the lines, only to be met by a checkpoint to save my progress. The multiplayer 
 is so well-rounded that I find it hard to quit, even after my butt has fallen asleep and its 2 
 in the morning! The levels take longer to progress through, but that isn't really a big deal. Overall, 
 BUY THIS GAME IF YOU LIKED 4!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bsamantir
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 15, 2008 10:13 am PT
Review:  Flame thrower is really good but does't feel just right.  never feel that i am really using 
 one. It's effect to the field is too shallow. And i think AI is not quite good. Especially in some 
 chapters (ex: The one which you try to capture the Japanese fortress.) AI act like an idiot. Then 
 stand and stare... Thats all they do. (Don't really know if thisi is about the difficulty or something.) . 
 Russian missions are ver exciting, but i didn't like the feeling of the sniper. And the sniper 
 match between us and the german sniper was too simple. Could have been much much greater. I guess 
 they added that scene just to add it. But, I like the character Dimitri :) He is one tough guy.
 
  
  Beside of that game is really very good in overall. A little bit too short, though...
  
  If i have to choose Modern Warfare or World at War... I probably go for Modern Warfare... But 
 give it a try to this one, too...
  
  I didn't play multiplayer yet, so can't tell anything about it.
  
  Have fun :)
  
  To the 
 COD 6 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JorisBu
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 15, 2008 7:00 am PT
Review:  i like the singeplayer, the story i well telled and the jappanese are really BANZAI-like. They 
 jst don't give up...
  The vehicles are cool too, i like the flametank ^^
  
  great guns, some bit less but hey its WWII what do you want :p, like the way they kept cod4 in 
 it in a way, same controls and stuff, makes it easyer to get in to the game en enjoy it more!!
 
  
  Multiplayer s nice, the maps are good and more place to snipe i feel, still working on finding 
 the good spots tho, but there are allot so no drumming fr it :D. The nades are lovely, i like the 
 way you have to light the moltov up with your lighter :D. Like the new thing 'gas mask' really 
 something that should be in cod4 too, no defence against the nades there!!
  
  The treeclimbing is nice too, you can get a nice streak up in the tree when there at the right 
 moment, and when you r fast enough caus there are allot f people who want the revenge and jst spray 
 all over you in you tree!
  
  Anyway, its good and was worth the wait i think!
  
  have fun all! its worth it!
  
  Fight With Honour! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: combomaster
Rating: 2.5
Date: Nov 17, 2008 6:49 am PT
Review:  Im a big fan of call of duty series, and I play it since the first one was released. I observed 
 that the creators of this game try to put some innovative content to their games. It was nicely 
 done in cod4. 
  In cod5 there is nothing new, and innovative. Gameplay is just moved from cod4 into world war 2 
 realms. It's nothing new added.
  And where at last there is something, it's totally not worth players delight. It totally disappointed 
 me. When I was buying this game I was ready to see something little different maybe even worst.. 
 but I've never thought that it would not meet my expectations.. Which were low from the beginning.
 
  The designers thought that whatever they do, they can earn big money, because of previous part 
 of call of duty, that united a big bunch of players from all over the world. But they overrated 
 themselves, and made a big piece of not-worht-to-play game.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: kylean1
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 15, 2008 2:53 am PT
Review:  When Call of duty: Modern Warfare was released i was relieved to know that WW2 is a thing of the 
 past, so you can imagine my disappointment when i saw that the next iteration in the series goes 
 back to WW2 and to top it all off it wasn't going to be developed by infinity Ward but by CoD3 
 creators Treyarch instead.
  
  Seeing screen shots and trailers didn't help either, cos no matter how good the game was it was 
 still the same old story played all over again in Brothers in Arms, Medal Of Honor and Call Of 
 Duty itself. However being a Call Of Duty fan myself i had to check it out and so i did.
  
  The game is split into 2 missions: the Russians pushing the Nazis back from Stalingrad to Berlin 
 (no you don't know that song :P ) and the Americans invading Japan. I believe the reason why i 
 enjoyed playing this game so much is that i was expecting a let down. However the amazing storyline 
 and the breathtaking gameplay make me forget i ever doubted that this game had "Call Of Duty" written 
 on it.
  
  As if its not enough using the flamethrower to burn everything in sight to hell, Jack Bauer himself 
 voices the character to make it even more epic. Although i must admit i didn't recognize Keifer 
 Sutherland's voice immediately, but as soon as he said "We have to reach our objective!" and "Damn 
 it!" (Chloe) that 24 clock just came screaming back to me :P
  
  The Russian part is also exciting, equal to the SAS mission in CoD4, The russian missions is less 
 savage, more tactical missions where you use snipers and crouch around to stab Nazis in the back 
 of the neck. Until you eventually reach the German parlament (Reich-sumthin) , storm, clear and 
 kill anything in sight and reach the top to quite an emotional ending where you raise the russian 
 flag in victory (which is the worn out but still awesome part) . 
  
  I guess what I'm trying to say is that the CoD4 engine did an amazing job in keeping you into the 
 game, and its still a thrilling ride. However i have to agree with Gamespot editors here that as 
 amazing as it all is and the wonderful job Treyarch have done to deserve the Call Of Duty name, 
 it still feels like more of the same... and thats not a political joke.
  
  I don't review a lot of games so pardon my ametur-ism, and feel free to critisize :) Thanks for 
 reading, 
  Kylean1.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Grampy_Bone
Rating: 6.5
Date: Nov 15, 2008 12:20 am PT
Review:  The Call of Duty series was first developed by the studio Infinity Ward and brought us a tightly 
 paced, exciting FPS set in world war 2. Though the first two games were excellent by any standards, 
 even then the WW2 setting was starting to feel overused. While Infinity Ward was busy reinventing 
 their own series by making Modern Warfare, Activision foisted a lackluster rehash sequel on us, 
 developed by Treyarch, a studio known for making Spider-Man games (which are neither first-person 
 nor shooters) . Call of Duty: World at War is yet another one of these Treyarch-made cash-in sequels, 
 destined for bargain bins across the country.
  
  Treyarch demonstrates at least a technical proficiency in making these games; you play a soldier, 
 you have guns, you use them to shoot guys. This all works about how you'd expect. Yet the soul, 
 the 'magic' of what Infinity Ward did so well is plainly missing here, and instead you feel like 
 you are going through the motions; playing a mod made by talented amateurs for a professional game.
 
  
  The game switches perspective between American and Russian soldiers, each with their own campaign. 
 The American story focuses on the island hopping Pacific campaign against the Japanese, the Russian 
 story is about the march to Berlin. Neither character is terribly fleshed out, but it's ground 
 we've all tread before so it doesn't matter. German/Japanese bad, kill them, the end. No war is 
 won by a single man, but in this game it might as well have. Your squadmates set a new standard 
 for A. I.: Artificial Incompetence. They all went to the Stormtrooper Marksmanship Academy and couldn't 
 hit the ground if they fell. They will blithely run past enemy soldiers (fouling your aim) and 
 take their pre-scripted positions (pushing you out of cover) . The enemy AI seems to be programmed 
 with this behavior in mind because they will mostly ignore computer-controlled combatants and focus 
 all of their attention on you. You have the standard regenerating health and withstand a fair amount 
 of gunfire, but grenades are obscenely lethal to the player, as standing within fifty feet of a 
 blast will instantly kill you. Not so to your enemies, unless they are standing right on top of 
 a grenade you will be lucky if they are so much as stunned by one. The ignorance of your teammates 
 is infuriating at times, such as when enemies run right past ALL TWELVE of your buddies only to 
 shoot at you, or during the soviet-controlled tank stage, where your allied tanks never seem to 
 fire a single shot. This seems to have been done in order to encourage that latest fad of co-op 
 multiplayer gameplay, but I found it difficult to convince anyone to endure this trash with me.
 
  
  Technically the graphics are fine but aren't too impressive, though they look about as good as 
 any Xbox game can look right now. The sound is a mixed bag. Guns sound muffled and weak, like toys. 
 The music switches between bombastic orchestral pieces and... wailing techno-rock? What the hell? 
 Kiefer Sutherland voices the American sergeant, but when his lines consist mostly of yelling "Watch 
 out! Grenade!" after you throw one, it seems like a waste.
  
  With so many shooters on the market, many of them involving things other than shooting nazis, with 
 better graphics, better AI, and better... everything, Call of Duty 5 is difficult to recommend. 
 If you must play, rent. If you must rent, don't expect much. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: WhiteSnake5000
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 19, 2008 11:45 am PT
Review:  Call of Duty: World at War isn't a game without flaws, however, when a game has the mechanics and 
 graphics engine of Call of Duty 4 on its side, it automatically makes it another great edition 
 to the series, with some minor or sometimes major quirks on the side of course. Now, whether you 
 will enjoy this experience or not largely depends on if you enjoyed Call of Duty 4 and are up for 
 another round of World War II action. Keep in mind, just because it is another World War II game, 
 doesn't mean it is automatically a repeat of every other World War II shooter. It has some advantages 
 to its side, namely, being so much like its predecessor in the game play compartment. Due to this 
 Call of Duty: World at War packs a fun and addicting multilpayer experience with some new additions. 
 Let's face it, you just won't find the same kind of powerful punch from most other multiplayer 
 games. As for its single player experience, players won't find anything but exciting Call of Duty 
 action. If you are expecting a Call of Duty game, you are getting one. On the down side, it is 
 a bit on the short side, but so was Call of Duty 4 and that didn't stop it from being a complete 
 success. Which brings us to an important question; Is Call of Duty: World at War the success that 
 Call of Duty 4 is? Not quite, but not too far off either. Call of Duty: World at War is a great 
 game that probably could have used an extra coat of polish, but even with its flaws Call of Duty: 
 World at War manages to achieve a respectable level of greatness. 
  
  Picture Call of Duty 4: Modern Warfare with these annoying but conquerable issues and you have 
 got Call of Duty: World at War. First when you take into consideration of the game you notice that 
 it uses both the Call of Duty 4 graphics engine and the Call of Duty 4 style. Now add on top of 
 it, multiple technical issues. We won't discuss those all here today but without doubt let us lay 
 down a few. It crashes for some people, and this can be anywhere, changing levels, while starting 
 up, they are just everywhere, I've had my PC freeze up completely while playing this. I've tried 
 different drivers and you know the game still manages to have a few crashes. Let us hope the future 
 is to come with many patches. Now, before you get turned off from playing this. It certainly isn't 
 happening to everyone and it is fixable if you head onto their forums they can help you out with 
 many issues. But come on, should someone who payed $50 for this game have to deal with this? The 
 game should have shipped more stable and optimized like Call of Duty 4. And other problems include 
 blurry textures, very poor weapon detail compared to its predecessor. It would have been more logical 
 for it to excel the visuals of Call of Duty 4, especially if it is going to perform worse. Now 
 as you know the game has some of those problems. Overall though, World at War is a great looking 
 game, you can't say it looks bad but it sure could have looked better and performed better. 
  
  Soundwise the game has both good sides to it and bad sides. The weapons sound weak! What happened? 
 Who knows. Everything sounds dull and fake. At least the game has good voice acting and great music 
 to back it up, however these things are pretty much granted in a Call of Duty game. Although the 
 music is really interesting, ranging from heavy metal sounds to epic orchestrated pieces, it keeps 
 a nice range. In the end it's nothing too spectacular, but it does the job. Is this enough? You 
 decide. 
  
  And now return to the World at War. Does World War II still hold up? You can say it is overdone 
 to death and someone would probably agree with you. World at War on the other hand can't simple 
 be passed of as that. It has a certain freshness added to it, the atmosphere and game play hold 
 it up above average. It stays true to Call of Duty 4: Modern Warfare, unless you thought it was 
 bad, you can't say that World at War plays too much worse than part 4. Only one major problem, 
 spawn killing is plentiful. And why does it always save the game right where you are about to get 
 something handed to you. On the bright side the game is still action packed. The enemy A. I. is 
 viciously stupid but awesome, the gore is great, the explosions are spectacular. Overall it's an 
 explosively action packed game. You will find that most of Call of Duty 4's game play mechanics 
 return to this title. Two guns and some grenades. You can pick up the weapons you would pick up 
 in any World War II shooter basically. Same cover system, you can peak out. You can also crouch 
 and get into prone position. Same fast paced game play you will find in 4. Again the weapons aren't 
 as great because the models aren't as detailed and the audio is poor. Ugh, dogs can chase you again, 
 this time in multiplayer however. They decided to replace the dogs with Banzai attackers in the 
 single player, which simply try to stab you with the blade at the end of their gun. As you can 
 in Call of Duty 4, by pressing the V key you can stop them by slitting their throat before they 
 manage to end you! More importantly, the levels are designed well and you will find them to be 
 lots of fun. They are very interesting, especially now with jungles and lots of nature filled with 
 explosions! Fighting the Japanese is really different for the Call of Duty series, it really helps 
 out in making the whole World War II setting not boring again. You will find a satisfying single 
 player campaign within Call of Duty: World at War, that's for sure.
  
  And when you're all done with single player you can now go online and play co-op. This is a newer 
 addition to the Call of Duty series which started with Call of Duty 3 but not present in 4. Being 
 able to tear through the levels with up to 4 people is something that should have been there in 
 the first place. It is great! Not to mention it is competitive, who ever gets more points is the 
 winner. But you can just simply play and have fun and set your competitive side, aside. And surely 
 at some point you will probably find co-op boring and will want to move on the other things such 
 as the multiplayer component of the game. Multiplayer is simply just a means of great fun. If you 
 have an online connection and this game, it would be questionable as to why you wouldn't have tried 
 it online in a competitive environment. If you are familiar with the last one, multiplayer is simply 
 visceral and exciting, not to mention customizable. As in Modern Warfare, you can customize your 
 weapons, as you gain experience and level up you will unlock things for you to use to customize 
 what your character holds. Such as primary weapon, secondary weapon, grenades and any other weapon 
 related things. For example you can add custom scopes to rifles. It gives the game something familiar 
 and it gives you a reason to keep on playing the game. The maps like the levels in the single player 
 campaign are awesome. Different parts of maps are good for close range and other parts are good 
 for sniping. A lot of variety! The weapons are like Call of Duty 2 pretty much, World War II. With 
 some sugar on top. Such as the Flamethrower, and many rifles, pistols, guns, grenades whatever 
 you are looking for. The game play modes offer plenty, the most popular is probably Team Deathmatch, 
 and Zombie Mode is plain awesome. If you like good action packed multiplayer games this game wouldn't 
 be bad to consider. 
  
  Call of Duty: World at War as mentioned. "isn't a game without flaws, however, when a game has 
 the mechanics and graphics engine of Call of Duty 4 on its side, it automatically makes it another 
 great edition to the series". If you are still addicted to Call of Duty 4 and don't really care 
 about World War II then maybe this game is passable for you, but otherwise pick this game up and 
 hopefully everything will go smooth for you. Great game play, level design, graphics, music & voice 
 acting. World at War at its core will deliver a satisfying experience. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: y07hci0107
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 14, 2008 11:49 pm PT
Review:  Having only played COD 4 out of all the Call of Duty games, my experience in this series is relatively 
 shallow. However, World at War does the same good job as Modern Warfare, and improves on it slightly.
 
  
  Gameplay
  In Call of Duty 4 campaign, players were simply made to follow the AI characters, gunning down 
 hostiles and infiltrating bases, with very little creativity involved. In World at War, there are 
 plenty more ways to take down targets and acomplish objectives. For example, in Modern Warfare 
 the only way to take down an MG position was simply charging the position and killing the gunner. 
 In Call of Duty 5, it is possible to take down the position with a grenade launcher, a missile 
 strike, storming the position, flanking it or burning the entire place with a flamethrower. Grenades 
 also seem a tad more useful in Call of Duty 5 than in Modern Warfare, where the grenades were more 
 or less pretty useless. However, I do wish to complain about the guns. The guns in WW are terribly 
 backdated, and the Japanese guns can only hold about 5 shots before requiring reload, making gunfights 
 a torrid affair. Also, the insane amount of banzai warriors are irritiating, although easy to slay. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JuggaloZero
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 14, 2008 5:56 pm PT
Review:  As most people will point out, this game's fun factor lies primarily in multiplayer. That doesn't 
 stop the single player from being worth at least one play through, and maybe multiple play-throughs 
 if you have friends to play co-op with.
  
  Just like Call of Duty 4, the campaign of World at War is short, though better than most first 
 person shooters with so much emphasis on multiplayer. While the story /plot aren't as compelling 
 as CoD4, the people at Treyarch did make a great campaign, with enough of a story to keep the player 
 going until the end, though the Soviet storyline kept myself much more entertained than the highly 
 publicized Pacific theatre. The only section which held the game back was the bugged and poorly 
 implemented tank driving segment, the only real setback for the game. 
  
  Graphically speaking, while not as good as CoD4, the graphics are still quite good, as expected 
 from using the same engine. The vocals, especially those provided by Keifer Sutherland, are exceptional. 
 This game, while not ground-breaking, provides a great experience which every fps player will enjoy. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gregeepoo
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 17, 2008 2:54 am PT
Review:  I got suckered into buying Far Cry 2 and was pretty gunshy about plunking down another $50 on another 
 crappy game. I loved all the COD games so far and I am glad to say that this one is worth the $$$.
 
  
  Single Player.
  While I liked Modern Combat better, they both play very similar. So using the formula in WaW that 
 they used in MC just makes since. The one scene that sticks out the most so far is when I am out 
 of ammo on the amphibious plane and right when all seems to be lost BOOM! A ton of friendly aircraft 
 swoop in and kick ass! The music kicks in and I just had to sit back and smile! What a great experience! 
 All in all I am glad I bought it.
  Now who can I pawn off this Far Cry 2 game to? 
  Multiplayer.
  Again same formula as MC and just as fun. A bit too fast paced at times, but maybe 
 thats cause I am old or something. Just gained a rank! WOOHOO!
  FUN GAME is all I can say.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: asafs16
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 14, 2008 2:41 pm PT
Review:  I dont know how people are saying the COD4 is better than this game, i mean CALL OF DUTY WORLD 
 AT WAR is better in every way that COD4
  
  ok lets start this review, so first of all i have to say that the graphics is way better than COD4, 
 looks really awesome, in COD5 you have more blood, more war, more every thing.. i mean every thing
 
  
  the visual effects of water, fire, blood, smoke, is way better than COD4.
  COD WAW also have that awesome story with a new fantastic gameplay, the music, sounds makes you 
 feel like your in the battle field.
  
  the single player mod is longer than COD4, its also another thing that COD WAW better than COD4, 
 the action of this game is non-stop, you can kill your enemys by shooting them or by stick a knife 
 in there had, the game is alot of fun, also in this game you have some things you didnt have in 
 last game.
  
  like the first thing, theres a level where you play in a TANK or a level that your on a plain and 
 your shooting enemys with the turrets.
  
  and last but not least the greatest thing in COD WAW, the flamethrower!!
  that new great weapons, 
 its awesome to play and burn all your enemys in flames, when you are using the flamethrower on 
 a tree the tree will burn and turn black, its awesome to look at!!
  
  oh and i almost forgot: ZOMBIE MOD !!, this awesome bonus level in
  COD WAW is just aweome!!
 
  
  let me finish by saying that if you are a COD fan, you have to buy this game !! its amazing and 
 the best in series so far.. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Drealoth
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 14, 2008 8:45 am PT
Review:  They try to make the Japanese seem brutal, which works, until you get the flamethrower. It's hard 
 to feel morally superior when you're burning hundreds of people to death.
  
  The game is fun, but it's no CoD 4. There are lots of bugs, none show stopping, but they're noticeable 
 - things like ragdolls not kicking in leaving you with dead soldiers just standing perfectly still 
 as if they were alive.
  
  There is the most annoying sniper fight ever near the beginning, which makes me feel like they 
 didn't play test the game as much as they should have. Recipe for fun: Enemy sniper that takes 
 3 hits to kill, takes half a second to jump out of cover and shoot you in the face, 1 hit kills 
 you, and even if you hit him still shoots back. Up to that point, I'd died 3 or 4 times. It took 
 me a good 40 lives to get past the sniper.
  
  The game is worth it, I think. The multiplayer is what you'd expect. I don't think it's a game 
 anyone will be playing a year from now, but it is quite fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mihipihi
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 14, 2008 3:16 am PT
Review:  The original copy I bought had SO many bugs in the game, that I can immediately call it the buggiest 
 game in the series. Every map had at least 100 bugs, some of them related to the graphics, but 
 most of them related to the terrain and textures. I fell in a hole twice, which had no ending. 
 I was killed because the altitude was too low...
  
  But the gameplay and the graphics are really nice. The controls, and things you can do, are practically 
 the same in CoD4, which is expected, because it uses the same engine, but they added some fun new 
 features, like hand-throwing a mortar bomb. The controls are perfect, just what you'd expect from 
 a game like this.
  
  The graphics are also very rich and intense, but they could improve on it. Textures are buggy, 
 and some of them aren't high-res, so you get a cod 2 feeling at times. Which isn't always a bad 
 thing, though.
  
  The story is OK, since it's history-based, but they could improve the way of telling it. The main 
 characters are a little weird at the beginning, but they grow on you. But I don't mean that for 
 the soviet one, because his intro and first mission are my favorite ones in the game. 
  
  All-around, the game is definitely worth playing. The missions are well-created and the gameplay 
 is just perfect.
  I give it a 8.5, because of the unimproved graphics and the bugs.
  
  
  Because of the severe bugging, I would recommend, that before playing even the intro, install 
 the patch. Even then, you will have some problems, but you will at least be able to play the game. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bebebebebebe123
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 14, 2008 1:20 am PT
Review:  World at war, like other previous COD series, bring player to war in different places, from Japan 
 to Russia, and fight to death. Like the previous installments, you are always a follower and never 
 a leader. And more like the previous installments, you can only follow the designated path/s in 
 order to advance any further. Even more like the previous installments, you can't save whenever 
 and often you will end up re-spawning at an awkward position, which results in repeatable deaths, 
 reloads, and frustrations.
  
  I have played COD since the 1st installment, but the development team seems running out of ideas 
 of this series. You can tell from the little added new features. To my best knowledge comparing 
 World at War to COD4, I couldn't find any new, blow you away, ideas. Even they have some new little 
 features (e. g. choose left/right path) , it doesn't worth 20USD, needless to say more. They have 
 recreated war from WWII to the near future and now they are just reinventing the wheel. 
  
  I would only recommended to people who is hardcore COD fan and hardcore WWII FPS fan, if you qualify 
 both. Go ahead and rent it, but don't bother burn your pocket with it. Because 30 bucks can go 
 a long way. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: frivan
Rating: 5.5
Date: Nov 14, 2008 8:58 pm PT
Review:  I never give a game a review, but this time i'm feel kinda angry, disappointing, and a little bit 
 frustrated, why? the call of duty saga is everything in the games 4 me, except the cod3, and they 
 do it again, i don't want to blame anybody but Treyarch??? why? why? why? why screw the formula 
 of success, Infinity Ward wow they made an amazing work why the change? why? you said the engine 
 motor it's the same, so why change? ok the review, i just finish the game right now, first the 
 AI, WTF WTF WTF!! the soldiers look retarded very very retarded, you step on they side and nothing 
 happened WTF????? you literally have to kick it or something, the graphics are awesome i give you 
 a 10 but, if u have such amazing enviroment, but the game it's kinda stupid WTF? the weapons are 
 very very realistic very good, the good acting in the voices are ok, the multiplayer mmmmmm i don't 
 now, i just enjoy a lot more cod4, please don't do it again in the cod6 don't use Treyarch, i now 
 it's part of activision but don't do it, i just feel bad don't like it at all you lost me in this, 
 i dont going to play this game anymore my money it's gone..... ok i'm going to play COD4 rightnow, 
 no more Treyarch!!! never!!! 
  
  THANK YOU... 4 NOTHING 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JebusJM
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 13, 2008 4:58 pm PT
Review:  Then when I finally played it, it was amazing. I was under the command of Jack Bauer and Sirius 
 Black (subtle joke) , while fighting off Nazi's and Japanese. The main thing I didn't like about 
 this game before it actually came out, was it being on the CoD4 engine. But it was awesome. Back 
 to the hectic days of WW2. I don't want to spoil it, so don't read any further if you don't want 
 to know what the last mission is:
  
  The Reich. Oh. My. God. It was the battle of my dreams, fighting off endless hordes of Nazi's. 
 After getting to the roof, it was an all out fight with the last of them. If you like picking off 
 Nazi's in huge gunfights, then this game is for you. If you love Kiether Sutherland screaming at 
 you while you defend yourself for Japs, and fighting through a metro while Nazi's try to flood 
 it, then get this game now. 
  
  There were only 2 things I didn't like about the final release: The vehicle missions (even though 
 they were very well made) and the second thing is that the campaign was a bit short. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: scotty_12
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 13, 2008 4:35 pm PT
Review:  fun game wih lots of potential but the tanks in multiplayer have killed it while they are fun and 
 a good advantage in singleplayer and in crowded 50 player servers with under 20 people they are 
 a unfair advantage.
  
  single player starts off hard and continues that way throughout the whole single player campaing 
 with the same endind as cod 1 and 2 with on difference the russians capture berlin not the yanks. 
 i finished by mysel in 4.5 h
  
  co-operative play is great and alot of fun you and up to 3 friends can play as a squad and dominate 
 the battle field and is even better if you yous ventrillo or teamspeak to comunicate. this game 
 on co-op is largly a squad fighter beacuse if your seriously injured beacuse you were stupid and 
 ran ahead of your squad you go down with a pistol and have to fight off your enemies while your 
 teammate finds you and revives you. me and my friends finished this game on co-operative in 2.5 
 hours
  
  my team m8 i player with were kizza, nuke and turd-of-korn
  
  my cod: WaW name is SC0TTY 
::::::

::::::
UserName: westsidesneo
Rating: 3.5
Date: Nov 13, 2008 4:28 pm PT
Review:  I'll keep it short and sweet for you fellas. My reasons for the 3.5 score:
  1. Repetitiveness- There's nothing in this game you haven't seen before, with the sole exception 
 of the zombie stuff, which IMHO only destroyed what there was of the 'authentic' COD theme that 
 made COD, COD2, and COD4 so popular. -2 points.
  2. Scalability- Plays poorly on lower end systems. Lower-end in this case means a Dell XPS. Only 
 25-15 FPS for COD: WW? And (on the same system) getting 30-25 FPS for Crysis? Shame on you, Treyarch. 
 I WAS running everything turned off, lowest system settings. SO, -5 points.
  3. Coop- Only shiny point imo. Haven't tried it out yet, but coop is always fun, and isn't in many 
 PC games. +.5 Points.
  
  Don't buy it. Wait till the price drops, (as all Treyarch games do) then buy it, if you still want 
 it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: El_Cdt
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 13, 2008 3:01 pm PT
Review:  Really, if this had come out one week after from the first CoD, you wouldnt notice the diferences. 
 The graphics are the same, with exception of fire animations. They were good back then, but they 
 dont cut it anymore. I had the distinct impression this title was worked on years ago, left on 
 the back burner, and then bundled up and passed on as a new title.
  Gameplay is the exact same, except for the rail-shooter feel. You have no freedom to go anywhere, 
 as all the maps are surrounded by fences/obstacles, that keep you on a very narrow path. Straying 
 from it is impossible, and you cant assault positions as youd like. Weapons behaved just like 
 in previous games, though the sounds are off by a mile. The BAR, for example, sounds like a pistol. 
 The .50cal also sounds weird.
  All in all, not a bad game, but it brings nothing new. This title would have been much better as 
 an expansion to CoD 1, a few years ago. But as a 2009 title, it fails to deliver. Really, did they 
 think we wouldnt notice? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kvaglund
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 18, 2009 5:27 pm PT
Review:  Good things first, grahics is very good, general system load is also very fine, COD5 has been played 
 on a AMD 4000+, Nvidia 8800 GT and 2Gb RAM, settings was maxed out and resolution was 1440x900, 
 with no performance issues what so ever. Game wise I loved that driving a battle tank is back, 
 and you also play the gunner on a Catalina (Consolidated PBY for all you nerds out there) and a 
 lot of sniper yee haa.
  
  The not so good is that the makers of COD5 is running out of ideas. I played the game on recruit 
 level first and half way through the game on regular level I realized I always was one step ahead 
 because the story line was so easy to remember, no surprises just a game on rails. COD was setting 
 trends a few years ago but now the trend is recycling from older COD's and other games. what a 
 bummer.
  
  Good and bad COD5 is a lot of hard work and patients as you can be pinned down for quite some time 
 figthing it out with germans or japs - the bad still is that I miss that rock and roll feeling 
 from COD2 and MOH Airborne - everything in COD5 seems to happen from a distance. All in all COD5 
 may just has come a step closer to the real thing - no romance - no heroes - just the uglyness 
 of war?
  
  Personaly I think COD should have continued with a sequel to Modern Warfare, It was some what better 
 than COD5 and had a lot of potential. World at war has only the potential to destroy the legacy 
 of COD - the game is good but not good enough. the last 0.5 making the score 7.5 is for old time's 
 sake. 
  
  Well you have one saying until you become wiser and playing COD5 a lot more since the first review 
 have made me wiser, the game is better than first time around even though the lack of new ideas 
 is a problem, well I'm going to shoot me some more Jerry's. bye now 
::::::

::::::
UserName: deroude
Rating: 6.5
Date: Nov 13, 2008 11:02 am PT
Review:  This is by far the worst game in the Call of Duty series, and I'm thinking of a bottom list classification 
 in the top WW2 games as well. It often looks like the scenery of a cheap mindless carnage flic. 
 The terms "repetitive" and "linear" don't even begin to portray the quality of the action. The 
 realism is a joke, from the superhero that blasts everyone with the flamethrower and then walks 
 through fire like the cyborg from Terminator, to the Mother of All Tanks, who kills 4 German 88 
 guns and countless Panzer V and Panther tanks (as well as hilarious combinations between the two 
 models) . The AI reminds me of Castle Wolfenstein (yeah, the '90s :D ) and the lame use of the 
 "Enemy at the gates" script is almost as incredible and appalling as the score it got on Gamespot. 
 : ( Disappointing, really. You cannot seriously compare this with Brothers in Arms or even their 
 own Modern Combat. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SuperSmearS
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 13, 2008 10:53 am PT
Review:  This game is basically Cod4 with different guns. If you like Cod4 but are bored with it like i 
 was, pick up this game it is fun. It plays the same as Cod4 but you get to have new guns, new maps, 
 new perks, and a new campaign which is good. If you are a COD fan at all pick up this game. I have 
 never been a big fan of the WWII games in the past except for COD2 but this game is awesome and 
 totally different than the others. It is a nice change of fighting japanese, rather than nazis 
 all the time.
  
  Co-op is awesome. Multiplayer is awesome as it was before. The maps are a lot better and they are 
 amazing looking. I haven't played zombie mode yet but from what i've heard it is going to pretty 
 sweet. The only draw back i have about this game is that the spawn points in multiplayer are still 
 kind of messed up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sylar_heroes
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 13, 2008 7:39 am PT
Review:  I must admit that WWII games are too overused but like the previous games, this one is the best 
 Call of Duty in the series! If you don`t believe me than you defenetly have to try it. Full of 
 action (and I mean FULL) it has one of the greatest effects and missions... You don`t even feel 
 the repetitive missions because of the storyline, effects and the awesome ambiance. The multiplayer 
 is also exciting. Call of Duty will never fail at this, maybe the lenght could have been bigger. 
 By far one of the best FPS until now. The feeling when you shoot is incredible! So good control 
 of the weapons (on PC) and visaul... It is worth trying it. If you want to find out other things 
 about the game buy it & play it! :) The WWII has never been so good, especialy with that great 
 sounds and so on........ 
::::::

::::::
UserName: theorouers
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 13, 2008 6:04 am PT
Review:  I like the 4-player coop - it makes this version of the franchise very refreshing - do not believe 
 the negative critics - it is absolutely fun to keep on playing - the zombielevel is crazy with 
 3 to 4 players - the graphics are great also on some older systems... The singleplayer is to short 
 - otherwise I gave it a 10!!! Guess Activision will earn a lot with the game - hope they bring 
 out some extra levels for singleplayer (for free) ... With COD4 i stopped playing multiplayer because 
 of the cheating that was going on. I only play multiplayer with friends in LAN or Internet. The 
 coop of is very welcome there... Buy the game, you won't regret it. Buy the game, you won't regret 
 it. Buy the game, you won't regret it. Buy the game, you won't regret it. Buy the game, you won't 
 regret it. Buy the game, you won't regret it. Buy the game, you won't regret it. Buy the game, 
 you won't regret it. Buy the game, you won't regret it. Buy the game, you won't regret it. Buy 
 the game, you won't regret it. Buy the game, you won't regret it. Buy the game, you won't regret 
 it. Buy the game, you won't regret it. Buy the game, you won't regret it. Buy the game, you won't 
 regret it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: warp10ck
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 13, 2008 4:22 am PT
Review:  I
  
  Oki so we have been here before and since alot of people is gonna puke when they hear about yet 
 another ww2 fps but this campaign is really fun and the ability to play the singleplayer in co 
 op mode with four other players is really fun and really well done.
  You follow the story of a Us Marine in the pacific , a navy pilot in the pacific and as a russian 
 private during the battle of Berlin.
  
  The multiplayer is basicly the same as Call Of Duty 4 and thats a good thing in the end it basicly 
 depends on what you prefeer ww2 weapons or modern weapons and if you like the modern feel stick 
 with cod4 but if you want to use bolt action rifles, charge at someone with a bayonet and flamethrowers 
 cod world at war is right up your alley like I said its all about preference.
  
  And the game has intense action and having to avoid banzai charges (japanese soldiers running towards 
 you trying to stab you with the bayonette) was really intense.
  
  So even if you are a little tired of ww2 games this game is still worth checking out nice singleplayer 
 (could be a little longer) and a nice multiplayer (cod 4 players will feel right at home) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sorin_ro
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 13, 2008 4:20 am PT
Review:  Well i honestly didn't expect more from this game because i 've played so many WW2 games... it's 
 hard now to make a really good game with this theme. COD 4 Modern Warfare was much better and had 
 some unique elements included-like that stealth mission where u have to pass through that field 
 full of tanks and enemies which was the best part of the game.... World at war is a good game with 
 nice graphics and stuff but it gets really boring because you've played this so many times... shooting 
 nazis and japanese.. well i did that and i did it better in the first COD or COD 2 ,Medal Of Honor 
 and so on.. so it's nothing new. Ok it's a good game with good graphics (though not the best today) 
 u now have flametrowers and bayonets but this isn't enough to make it a great game... and  
 it's a fun game to play but yet again-nothing special. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vedomedo
Rating: 6
Date: Nov 12, 2008 11:27 pm PT
Review:  Well when i first saw trailers and gameplay footage of this game i thought damn WW2 again? But 
 when i got the game i quickly figured out it was more than just the ordinary WW2 game. Having said 
 this i think it was WAY to similar to the rest of the CoD series, like CoD - CoD 2 - CoD 3 only 
 new things were the flamethrower (wich get's kind of old) , the bayonet (wich is quite fun but not 
 really any better than the melee attack in all other games) and gore (thats the actual fun part) 
 and btw zombies? wtf? just get L4D, it's way better lol.
  
  The gameplay is very similar to the other cod's, NO recoil whatsoever, just hold mouse 1 and you 
 will hit ANYTHING you want... The AI is quite **** really, i played through on normal and hard 
 and on either settings the enemy AI only shoots the player (except for some scripted sequences) 
 and it gets annoying, WHEREVER you are you just get shot untill u need to take cover and then the 
 enemy throws 20 nades at you.
  
  The graphics weren't really THAT impressive either, iv'e been playing the L4D demo for a while 
 now and the Anti Aliasing KICKS ASS but in CoD there's like Anti Aliasing is an unknown word, it 
 doesn't even look good (and btw i run on max settings with 1920x1200)
  
  Anyway, the game can be fun but in my oppinion it get's really repetative and iv'e killed germans 
 in atleast 10 other games... even though this shooter has somewhat of a story it's the same old 
 thing "get in a boat, the boat blows up, slow motion animation, some random dude pulls you up and 
 then he says : storm the beach" so yeah.. it tries to be diffrent but it's not, my advice : rent 
 it or download the demo first 
::::::

::::::
UserName: aeternus7
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 12, 2008 10:54 pm PT
Review:  I often put my faith in IGN reviewer, probably due to this fact that they see the benefits of the 
 game less technically and more broadly in artistic aspects. however, COD: WaW take us back to the 
 immense gameplay where you're not a bland commando with few elite heroes operating on base of and 
 shallow political implications, but a simple soldier whose life does mean a little in the vast 
 battlefield but can do a lot in terms of changing and turning the war. it keeps you amused with 
 some twist and turns in plot, plus with immersive new atmosphere of WWII and showing its brutal 
 reality in a delicate way. don't miss it.
  ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Boom-Cheese
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 12, 2008 10:37 pm PT
Review:  Many people (including me) , were disappointed to hear that Treyarch was taking the next Call of 
 Duty back into the WWII era. However, he's proved the WWII setting can be just as fulfilling as 
 the modern day setting of Call of Duty 4 in the next installment of the famous Call of Duty series.
 
  Firstly, the graphics are just fantastic. The bright, breathtaking jungle scenery and the dark, 
 gloomy Berlin streets are just some of the things you're eyes will be treated with as this game 
 makes you feel like you're the one handling the gun yourself. The way parts of the camera blur 
 as you aim down the sights of your rifle is both magnificent and smart, as well as many other details, 
 such as the calm but shadowy waters of the sea.
  The game is, quite simply, very fun. You'll be able to stab the Japanese with bayonets, rip limbs 
 off Germans with sniper rifles, see the blood and aftermath after blowing someone up with a grenade, 
 and more. It's very satisfying. The Zombie bonus level is both creepy and exhilarating, and even 
 I was tense and scared my first time through. The COD4 game engine makes the game extremely fun, 
 and you'll find yourself wanting more and more. Unfortunately, quite quickly, you'll find you can't 
 have any more.
  Yes, once again, the game is very short. Shorter than Call of Duty 4. This is the greatest problem, 
 in my opinion. It only took about 10 hours, and then the game was finished. Thankfully, the game 
 was excellent when I played it, it just ended way too soon.
  There isn't any problems, apart from the occasional, almost unnoticeable error that you can expect 
 in just about every game. Although, other than the short storyline, the main thing that sucks the 
 fun out of the game is how everything is so familiar, the same. Same guns as the previous games 
 (apart from COD4) , same game engine as COD4, and the storyline lacks versatility. For example, 
 Call of Duty 4: Modern Warfare included some memorable sniping missions, exciting infiltrations 
 of buildings, among other things. Apart from a short sniper/stealth mission, the game is basically 
 the same. Run in, kill enemies, push them back, take the area. But don't get me wrong, the game 
 is still an enjoyable masterpiece.
  I feel the multiplayer, although practically the same, is slightly worse than COD4's. However, 
 to be fair, it was always going to be hard to make a multiplayer better than COD4's with an older 
 setting. COD4 had the advantage of fantastic modern weapons, while COD: WaW has to stick with the 
 older weapons and items. The multiplayer is still extremely fun, and definitely worth playing.
 
  So, in the end, even the WWII sceptics will have to admit Call of Duty: World at War packs a good 
 punch, and perhaps the game even challenges Call of Duty 4: Modern Warfare to which game is the 
 best. Treyarch has done well with this one, and he's surely silenced many of those critics who 
 doubted his WWII era with this spectacular game that should stick you to your seat for a long, 
 long time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: boilergrad
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 12, 2008 7:23 pm PT
Review:  COD4 is one of the best games I have played, and the online play is very fun and addictive. I was 
 very excited to pick up the new COD5 yesterday, but as I played through the first couple maps, 
 it seemed to be missing something. Yes the game is played the same way, but it just not the same. 
 Maybe I was expecting too much from this game, but shouldn't we expect more. The gameplay is just 
 not as fun as COD4, the maps look good in the beginning but they lack the simple look and feel 
 as 4. I have already went back to playing Modern Warfare. Tried to trade in my game, but of course 
 only will give me $28.00. Who decided to go back to World War II, I want some modern weapons, where 
 is my Airstrike and Chopper. Now I get to deploy some dogs. Maybe COD6 will be better when Infinity 
 Ward produces the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lolnades
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 12, 2008 6:03 pm PT
Review:  Now i'm gonna start off with the good and the bad 
  the good-
  -Graphics (although using the same engine as Cod4) are still beautiful and you can appreciate them 
 more now that you see more colors than just gray and black
  
  -Gameplay 
  If it aint broke dont fix it. It may be using the same time period, but the way it's executed is 
 remarkable. 
  
  -fire is a blast (no pun intended?)
  
  -multiplayer is great.
  
  The bad
  -the profile system is a bit buggy (i can't make a profile for some reason, though i 
 heard theres a fix)
  
  -the story isnt too compelling. Its more like "i have a reason to kill japanese and germans". Though, 
 i wasnt expecting a good one anyways.
  
  -flamethrower is overpowered
  
  
  Overall this game is a great addition to the Call of Duty series. I probably would have liked to 
 have a longer story, but i probably would have spent more time on the multiplayer. Even though 
 the time its taking place in has been done time and time again, this is undoubtedly the best WW2 
 shooter out there.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: sephiroth_gr
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 12, 2008 5:16 pm PT
Review:  very good graphics, not to mention it runs so smooth on pc that makes you feel you are playing a 
 game with low requirments. action is very intense in most sections of the game, specially at black 
 cats that lets you play as an aircraft gunner. the AI is nothing extraordinary but still good enough. the 
 whole game is rather polished on every aspect, howver feels not enough cause even polished every 
 section has some very easy noticeable faults. graphics are very good still there is a low interaction 
 with the enviroment. sound of weapons is... not realistic, feels a little too silent/not loud enough (specialy 
 if you have fired a weapon in real life, this is the first thing you notice in this game) . movement 
 is very nice, control is very nice also. howwever, the game is too easy even on highest difficulty 
 and... way too short. took only 8 hours to finish it. overal its a very nice fps but its low challenge 
 and very short duration gives a bitter feeling at the end. still, the gore and the action packed 
 landings makes you spend 8 hours realy happy 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thesekiman
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 12, 2008 11:29 am PT
Review:  I didn't play Beta and watched trailers, teasers and gameplays, i just waited to be released. And 
 it was worth of waiting. CoD4 engine is great, we all know that, so for the graphics i wasn't worried, 
 didn't expect the same as CoD4 because we don't have hi-tech weapons, helis etc. in 1941, but for 
 the sake of realistics, i knew it won't be missed in CoD5. 
  
  OK, starting the game, setting up the profiles, now we have online and offline profiles, than setting 
 the graphics and controls as i always do. Starting the Solo Campaign, regular difficultly, watching 
 pre-level movie as the game loads in the same time. Loading has finish and then the first scene 
 animation started. 
  
  After first scene i've stayed in front of monitor thinking to myself "oh my god, this will be freakin' 
 crazy"
  
  You can cut the tension with the knife as you walking in the river crossing the jungle, it's so 
 experienced, you can feel that something's gonna happen and right than crazy kamikazes jump out 
 of water and start running towards you with their bayonets fixed on their rifles. If he comes to 
 you, he will push you on the ground and attempt to stab you, but when you press the melee button 
 in right time, you'll push his bayonet away and stab him with your knife in his neck. It's bloody 
 hell :)
  
  All in all, i've played almost all of the WW2 games, and this one is the best of all. I can't compare 
 this game to the CoD4, it is the same theme - WAR, but it's not the same time, there was no such 
 weapons as we have today, upgrades, vehicles, etc.. 
  
  CoD4 is more playable as it was something new and kinda evolutionary in the WAR games, and CoD5 
 is more like "been there, done that", but surely not on that level of experience :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Terminatorobot
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 16, 2008 8:08 am PT
Review:  The game is made by Treyarch the same as cod 3 and that was a disaster.
  
  Treyarch is doing good with this game. The graphics are good , with a lot of new options and a 
 big choice of weapons makes it a new COD experience. I thought that COD couldn't be succesful but 
 I was wrong when I played the beta of call of duty 5. You have a big choice of maps so you can 
 play the game a big time until the new COD xD.
  
  
  Call of duty 5 is again in world war 2 but it is again a good game that you would play for a loooooooooong 
 time...
  
  The single player is totaly new and you don't have to kill any German's anymore now you have to 
 kill some japanese... But they aren't the same. They have a other tactik to make your live horrible, 
 they hide and wait to attack, they do all to kill you.
  
  Multiplayer is the same as COD4: the maps are very good designed, great graphics, good weapons 
 and attatchements, challanges and much fun!!
  
  Conclusion:
  
  Do you Like call of duty 4?
  
  BUY CALL OF DUTY 
::::::

::::::
UserName: f4tb0i18
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 12, 2008 8:29 am PT
Review:  If you are not sick of the WWII franchises or the COD series.. I highly recommend this game! Its 
 basically COD: UO on Speed! This game is so brutal! there is limb removal... body shredding and 
 beheadings.. now for the good and bad
  
  Good:
  ........
  BRUTAL
  RAnked Multiplayer
  Vehicles
  Flame Thrower
  Pacific Theatre
  Decent enough Singleplayer 
 story
  
  BAD:
  Weapon Sounds are very weak...
  Enemy AI is the same
  Occasionally feels like a really well done Full MOD for COD4
  
  The following is making sure 
 the text is long enough:
  ifguia euahdia wohdawd awdoi dhwado i owiad waodi haoiao sidhoai dhoiawdhadoh ahowidhaahd ahoaidh 
 aoaidaoh aohdi ahd awohd oadh odhadola hdahd odho hd dod haod hyd h dhd hdao oihdw aowhowihod ydoaidhaodh 
 h hoa dihad sjkdhsadh hdoa widha wohd oawhdawohd awodh awo od ohda whwdoa hawodhaw dnskjdh shdoad 
 haaa wiohd ao oash oiahdohda oiai o 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cheesehead456
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 12, 2008 6:41 am PT
Review:  I plays like CoD4 but it doesn't look like CoD4. I have only played through the first level and 
 the graphic quaility isn't there. CoD4 looked a hell of a lot better. I have everything cranked 
 up... same settings as on my CoD4 but they look totally different. They really screwed up thje 
 graphiocs in this game... I havn't played it with the patch but I looks like it does mostly multiplayer 
 stuff. I seems to me the level of detail is gone... the hand on the gun looks mostly like a blob. 
 The sound isn't as good either. Despite all of this, it still seems like it could be a good game... 
 I am looking forward to the Nazi Zombie's...
  
  I believe in giving fair revview scores unlike most who hate one thing and give it a 1.0. This 
 game doesn't deserve a 1.0... in fact I don't think that gamespoot has ever givin a 1.0 for a game. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MrSudz
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 12, 2008 12:22 pm PT
Review:  
  I know that some people are turned off by the fact that this is another WWII shooter.... and that 
 we have been there and done and done that.
  But let me tell you that this is no knock off, cheap way to make a quick buck.
  Treyarch did 
 their homework........
  The game play, graphics and weapons are both new and old at the same time. 
  Graphics are very 
 good, dynamic lighting, shadows and flare are used well to simulate the use of phosphorus flares 
 at night in the jungle. My 8800GT plays it very good.
  
  Sounds in the game are good, from the sound of the guns, screams, and the whistle of the mortars 
 as they smash into the enemy. The dogs bark, snarl and yelp as they are used to attack and are 
 being shot at by your opponent. My only complaint is that at times in Multi-player the sound direction 
 could be better and its difficult to zero in on a enemy based on sound alone. This was also an 
 issue in COD4
  
  The Weapons, The classics can now be upgraded the way weapons in COD4 and have double tap, deep 
 penetration, and slight of hand. This is very cool and updates them into a more modern and fun 
 weapon to use.
  There are several new perks used. Each perc is applicable to the weapons and tanks that are used 
 in the Multi-player.
  
  The single player is a bit short and can be finished on medium settings in about 8-10 hours. The 
 single player compaign jumps around a bit but its fun. But the real fun is the online multi-player.
 
  
  You gain rank and XP points as you play, unlocking more weapons and perks as you go. There are 
 many game types, Death-match Team death match are standard but where the game really shines is 
 in Game Types of CTF, capture the flag, and WAR where each team is trying to capture points and 
 gain momentum to quickly capture the enemies area. The opponents team is defending the capture 
 point and trying to swing the momentum their way. Its a tug of war game style and new to the franchise. 
 They also incorporated the prestige where you rank up and then trade back down for more perl slots 
 and badges. Gimmicky but it keeps the sense of on-going rewards for playing online.
  
  If you liked COD4 you will like this game. Great graphics. Fun Single player game, Awesome online 
 fun with the many game types and excellent maps.
  For FPS Fans with a knack for on-line fun this is a must have. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nino_ze
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 12, 2008 2:40 am PT
Review:  Call of Duty 5: World at War probably isn't the best game in the Call of Duty series, but also 
 it isn't the worst. Most gamer will agree with me that the worst thing so far is the A. I. German 
 soldiers running into the mighty Russian fire power like kamikazes, and the Japanese soldiers hide 
 behind a small barrel or a box. Also another objection is the auto-balance in MP mode, i hope the 
 will fix than with a patch. 
  But this game also has a lot of great thing. For the first in the series you can play Co-Op with 
 your friends and it's a lot of fun. Also the graphics look great. All the uniforms look identical 
 as back than in WWII and that cool. Also the special effects are awesome. When you use your flame 
 thrower you can see how the Japanese soldiers are burning to their death and trying to survive. 
 
  The game is good, but not excellent. It's has a lot of violence and it is not people under 18. 
 
  See you on the servers 
::::::

::::::
UserName: freequo
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 11, 2008 11:06 pm PT
Review:  Yesterday I've installed COD 5. For me this is the best FPS for now. Details are good even if you 
 put everything on low options.
  I'm still in shock and amazed by this game so I don't have much to write wright now. That less 
 then 10h play I entered because I've played that long but I think I'm still far from the end. One 
 part of the game is the same as movie "Enemy at the gate" where your mission is to eliminate nazi 
 general. But the start is also interesting; salvation by your marine friends. As I mentioned the 
 detail of the game are awesome even if your options are defined as "low". Never the less, you have 
 to have pretty strong machine to run this. 
  But, if someone doubts about buying COD 5, I can surely say "Buy it, its great" because I surely 
 will.
  Hope this helped someone. I'll try to write some more. After all, I've just start to play it :) 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Waseemreddler
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 11, 2008 10:34 pm PT
Review:  I am not fan of war games , but call of duty is only the series which attracted me to play. In 
 every version , they showed their full excellence and hardworking. Controlling , graphics , destruction 
 are so amazing in full series. if u compare world at war with the pervious version Call of duty 
 1 ,2 , its better than all, but not much better than call of duty 4. I enjoyed it very much, both 
 on single player mode and multiplayer. 
  The controls haven't changed much from previous entries in the series, which is totally fine considering 
 that the franchise already had fantastic controls. You'll use real-world and real weapon as well 
 as are able to call in airstrikest. Just like in other CoD games, you can press the left trigger 
 in order to aim down your sights, and your zoom will depend on what weapon you are using. You can 
 throw of grenades at your opponents (flash, frag, and smoke) as well as pick up and toss back grenades 
 that they've thrown at you. The controls aren't complex whatsoever and feel natural after only 
 a very short time of play.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: emkeighcameron
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 11, 2008 10:15 pm PT
Review:  This is a great game, and it surpasses COD4 by a long shot. The single-player is explosive, and 
 both campaigns (American and Russian) have several "wow" moments. The multiplayer is a ton of fun, 
 and you'll be coming back to it for a long time.
  
  The shooting is solid, and while the lack of a cover system might be annoying to some, it's certainly 
 not detrimental to the experience. There's a great variety of weapons, including one of the most 
 incredible flamethrowers you'll ever have the joy to use in a shooter. The game is fair in distributing 
 ammo, forcing you to shoot relatively carefully. No spray-and-pray here.
  
  The enemy AI is smart but not brilliant. Very rarely you'll seem some enemies just ignoring you, 
 or doing some strange kind of jig on the furniture. The friendly AI will occasionally get your 
 way, which will only drive you nuts once your grenade bounces off his stupid head and lands back 
 at your feet. (It WILL happen.)
  
  The multiplayer is where it really shines. Aside from the regular (and awesome) free for all, COD5 
 has cooperative campaign multiplayer and a new Zombie mode, where up to 4 players try to hold off 
 ever-growing swarms of vicious zombies in an old bunker. It's nail-biting and you'll have an absolute 
 ball gunning down undead Nazis with your Tommy, trust me. Between repairing busted windows, buying 
 guns and ammo, reviving your fallen buddies, and slaughtering tons of monsters, you'll have a blast.
 
  
  Graphics and sound-wise, it's a lot like COD4. The visuals are realistic and very detailed, while 
 the audio is full of great sounding explosions and the like.
  
  The score is one of the weak points. It seems to have a weird "techno/rock" vibe that really does 
 not fit with the game universe. It's not BAD music, it's just not appropriate.
  
  If you like any of the other CODs (especially #2 and/or #4) , then you need to get this game. Heck, 
 even if you didn't like the old ones, it's hard to dislike this gem. Give it a shot. And give the 
 Nazi zombies a couple thousand.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: md_oz
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 11, 2008 8:52 pm PT
Review:  I had some doubts at first, even after initial game play on the beta. At first I thought the weapons 
 too slow and too ineffective and the perks just not up to snuff with the COD4 game by Infinity. 
 
  
  However, as I gained facility with the maps and weapons, I came to appreciate COD World at War 
 as yet another FPS hit in the ongoing franchise.
  
  In CODWW, artillery and attack dogs have replaced the air strikes and helicopters of COD4 for kill 
 streak bonuses, and provide an interesting change of pace, as do the availability of tanks on various 
 maps. Of course, everybody wants to know what that flame thrower will bring at level 65. I guess 
 if you've played the solo game all the way through, you already know. Similarly, I found the high 
 powered weaponry at the tail end of ranking up really awesome.
  
  COD 5, if you will, seems to combine all the best elements of the all the previous Call of Duty 
 titles: sophisticated and numerous maps, incredible graphics (even you haven't bought that HDTV 
 yet, you need to so that you can fully appreciate the artistry here -- and in the last game too) , 
 realistic weaponry, plenty of challenges, and unlimited (all night) fun on XBOX LIVE.
  
  True, this is not COD4, but then again, COD4 is not COD World at War. Both have their merits, and 
 though moving backward in history, COD5 has evolved one step further in the series and insured 
 Activision continued bragging rights at the top of the heap. Hence, like COD4, Call of Duty, World 
 at War should be in the running for Best Game, Best First Person Shooter, Best Live (Multiplayer) , 
 and Best Graphics Game of the year for 2008-2009 -- unless and until COD6 comes out! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Xaphan3
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 11, 2008 8:12 pm PT
Review:  Now I know right off the bat people aren't gonna pick this one up only because Treyarch is developing 
 it; whatever their loss. I was on that bandwagon too, until I actually tried it. I mean its no 
 CoD4, but it comes really close and definitely deserves a spot up there. 
  
  Story - I havn't gotten far into singleplayer yet, but so far so good. It doesn't have the back 
 story that CoD4 had, or the deepness of the characters. But it still has its emotional and intense 
 moments. But if you didn't know you play as 2 different characters. A US marine in the Pacific 
 theater, and a Soviet solider in the Red Army pushing for Berlin.
  
  Gameplay - Gameplay hasn't changed much from CoD4, it's basically the same old shooter it always 
 was. Really the only change I noticed so far was that they added gore. Limbs and heads can be blown 
 off by certain weapons and explosives. I've seen a few guy with their intestinal tract exposed. 
 Good stuff. Oh also, you can play singleplayer with up to 3 other players in coop. Challenges are 
 added for it as well, and the xp from those challenges goes toward your online account. Which is 
 pretty sweet if you're bored of multiplayer.
  
  Multiplayer - Some people may call it a CoD4 mod. Which is what it basically is stripped down. 
 Everything is really the same. The ranking, the unlocking of guns and mods for the guns. The only 
 few things that have been added is that there is an extra gamemode called "War", which is like 
 a conquest mode. Just capturing points, and advancing. Also, vehicles have been added and are a 
 blast to use. The one thing I didn't like about MP is that everyone has everyones weapons. Like 
 for instance, lets say your german, you can spawn with US/Russian/Japanese weapons. So basically 
 team doesn't really matter if you are trying to spawn with a certain weapon. Challenges are all 
 really the same from CoD4 except for Vehicle challenges and added weapon challenges. 
  
  Graphics/Sound - So far so good. Havn't seen many glitches with either. Maybe a few texture problems 
 here and there. But every game has those. Graphics are crisp and beautiful just like CoD4's. Maybe 
 even a bit better. 
  In contrast, some of the weapons sound a bit to weak. Some sound like an airsoft gun in rapid fire. 
 
  
  All in all, this game is basically a CoD4 mod. But it is still worth playing. It still has the 
 addicting multiplayer from CoD4. Even has a few added, such as coop. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: _Roo_
Rating: 6
Date: Nov 11, 2008 6:30 pm PT
Review:  This game could be called mediocre at best. As others have mentioned the single player game is 
 flat, the graphics are generic and the sound is just sad. The only thing that is good about this 
 game is the recycled engine. My friends all warned me that Treyarch would screw it up again but 
 loving Call Of Duty Modern Warfare and knowing they shared the same engine I had faith and bought 
 it before the reviews were out. Sixty dollars (plus the money I lost taking the day off work to 
 play) later I can not agree with them more.
  After I am done writing this review I will be putting in Call Of Duty 4 to remind myself what a 
 real game designer (Infinity Ward) can produce. Save your money, wait till the price comes down 
 and multi-player traffic picks up and you won't hate yourself for getting it. Pay full price and 
 you to can have your friends laugh and call you an idiot. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: iambotchan
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 11, 2008 6:23 pm PT
Review:  This review is for the PC version. I have to say that at first I was apprehensive about this title. 
 With a change of developer and a return to the WWII story line, I thought this might be the end 
 of my love affair with COD. That was not the case. I was very excited about the co-op mode so I 
 fired this puppy up and jumped right in. At first, I had a heck of a time getting into a co-op 
 game (note: a 1.1 update was released on the first day and being a geek I downloaded the update 
 without haste - I found most people hadn't updated yet) . I set up my own server and I was up and 
 running with 3 other players in a matter of seconds. 
  
  I must tell you that I have a decent gaming rig (quad core, dual 8800GTX, and 8 gigs of RAM - yes, 
 I am that nerdy and I have no life) . Considering the latter, the game looks and sounds awesome!!! 
 Play was smooth and there were no multiplayer hiccups throughout the four maps we played. 
  
  The computer AI was typical COD - "stand there and let me shoot you in the head," but I have 
 to admit they went for cover more than normal. 
  
  Good: Pretty (with a decent PC) and very little clipping. Sound has improved since the BETA (especially 
 the weapon firing) . Co-op mode on the PC is a must for you COD fans!!!
  
  Bad: Co-op must be hosted locally (many individuals do not understand the concept of bandwidth) . 
 Single player story line is weak, but do-able.
  
  Bottom line: If you are a COD (or a MOH) fan and have a good PC, you WILL like this one. Multiplayer 
 still is the big draw and co-op is extremely enjoyable. If you are in game and you liked my review 
 - say Hi - HairlssWooki 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mobius8041
Rating: 5
Date: Nov 11, 2008 5:21 pm PT
Review:  After the success of Call of Duty 4, putting this back in World War 2 is just plain stupid. There 
 is already an abundance of World War 2 games out there that suck. I just don't see the logic in 
 placing the series back in World War 2 after the extreme success of the series in modern times. 
 Additionally, the game comes out days within the release of the World of Warcraft: Wrath of the 
 Lich King expansion. That's bad business on their parts. I will give them credit though, including 
 the Pacific Theater of Operations was kind of nice, but they should have made this game Call of 
 Duty 3 instead of the 5th game. It's basically a Call of Duty 4 mod. Nothing has changed. Same 
 perks, same controls, same everything. A final parting note, the best way to look at the Call of 
 Duty series is the following: If it's not Infinity Ward, it's not Call of Duty. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ccjcc
Rating: 3
Date: Nov 11, 2008 3:07 pm PT
Review:  I am very dissappointed with this game and wish I could get my $60 back. It's lame compared to COD4, 
 and even seems lacking compared to COD2. The camera movements associated with interacting with 
 the environment is dumbed down a lot, so much so that it feels like I am floating through the maps 
 and levels. The weapons recoil is atrocious. Instead of a hard snap that realistically imitates 
 firing a weapon, such as in COD4, I get a pathetic weapon nod. The weapons sounds are unrealistic. 
 The weapon actions and appearances seem unrealistic and cartoony. The hardcore mode is a joke compared 
 to COD4. The only good things about this game are the wide open levels and some of the ambient 
 sound effects. I wish that I had not spent $60 on this game. I'm probably going to shelf it and 
 continue to play COD4 until something better comes along. STICK TO REALISM DEVELOPERS! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: iwatchitall
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 11, 2008 1:19 pm PT
Review:  Call of Duty: World at War is in the unfortunate position of having to live up to its predecessor 
 Modern Warfare and compete against Crysis, and in both instances it comes up short. It did not 
 push the envelope of what can be done with video games and does not improve upon the FPS genre 
 or the WWII storyline, which has been done to death. It is however a way better game than Quantum 
 of Solace, and exceedingly better than Brothers in Arms: Hell's Highway. 
  
  Japan and Russia may be new to the Call of Duty franchise, but I felt like I've done it all before. 
 The old archive footage of WWII during loading periods between levels, lessened the experience 
 for me a lot, I'd rather they have animated cut scenes, or go right ahead and rip off HBO's Band 
 of Brothers and have scenes with real veterans, instead of piecing together old footage I've seen 
 a million times before on TV. 
  
  As far as the gameplay, there are two storylines that you'll play back to back, one in Japan with 
 Keifer Sutherland aka Jack Bauer, and one in Germany as a Russian with an old Soviet Nationalist 
 named Resvez. The Russian storyline is miles better than the Japanese storyline with more intensity, 
 more gun fire, better sound, better maps, and overall, more fun. The gameplay for both storylines 
 is linear, but the Japanese storyline is very very very linear, and you can not move off the reservation 
 of our guided tour through Japan, you must stay on the course they've plotted for your character, 
 and after playing Crysis and Farcry 2 that simply will not do! I felt trapped, in every instance 
 in Japan, as I wanted to plot my own course through the game, but you are not allowed to do that 
 at all, which bottlenecked my character as I kept running into my own men and surrounding barriers, 
 as well as losing track of my men because I was going in the wrong direction, which eventually 
 sucked the fun right out of the game. The best level, and the only one I would play over, is the 
 Russian sniping level, when you first meet up with Resvez pretending to be dead where you get to 
 sneak, which is fun and exciting. What happened to the amazing cut scenes like in Modern Warfare? 
 No helicopter landing in front of you and having to haul a character on your back with your heart 
 pounding from the intensity. No chase scene of any kind, like after a Nazi or on the back of a 
 hummer on a gun through the jungle or the streets of Berlin. One direct comparison I will make 
 between Modern Warfare and World at War is the flight shooting levels. In Modern Warfare you get 
 options of how you want to take out the enemy from a helicopter circling at high altitude and you 
 have to make your shots count with some strategy behind it. In World at War you are on board a 
 bomber/fighter plane and get to move from gun to gun inside the plane and shoot ships and fighters 
 down, which is really boring because there's no difficulty involved in shooting at the ships, they're 
 just floating in the ocean and you will blow them up if you decide to shoot, and then it's next 
 to impossible to shoot down the Japanese fighters towards the end of the level, as they're too 
 far away and you can't time your shots unless you've played the game over and got the timing down, 
 which would be pointless, because it's just a matter of making it through the level, not how many 
 planes you shoot down. If I got to fly a fighter in both Japan and in Germany, that would fun, 
 but no such luck, you just get a tank level.... yay... snore. The guns are more work to use than 
 Modern Warfare, which makes sense and is realistic, but isn't as much fun, it's again, tedious 
 and painstaking, like Brothers in Arms. Also, when you get shot, the "heart pouding" sound effect 
 that I loved in Modern Warfare, is diminished and less intense. If you stay in one spot and think 
 you've killed everyone off you'll realize you haven't when you go to move forward, as there will 
 simply be another wave of bad guys that you should've killed if you had kept moving in the right 
 direction and found and followed that one access point that allows the story and game to move forward, 
 again, more bottlenecking. 
  
  What is with the ridiculous zombie level at the end? Come on, that's just retarded, Modern Warfare's 
 practice level and bonus end level are miles more exciting than shooting zombies. On the highest 
 graphic settings, the rendering is not as detailed as Modern Warfare and the gameplay is far from 
 what we got to enjoy last year this time from Activision. Crysis Warhead is still the best first 
 person shooter of 2008, and I would honestly say I enjoyed Bioshock more and could do without playing 
 this game ever again. 8.0/10, barely. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RYPER
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 11, 2008 12:40 pm PT
Review:  My first impression of the game when I saw screen shots was a good one, but while watching gameplay 
 videos and actually playing it myself I found out that it was going to be a disappointing and a 
 boring experience compared to the other COD games.
  
  *The Good Things (or the not so bad ones)
  -A different, more violent view of WWII.
  -Good 
 sound and an interesting soundtrack. (combination of rock and orchestra music)
  -Some very emotional cut scenes that set the mood for the entire level.
  -A sort of a contrast 
 between the Russian soldiers and the American soldiers which leaves you thinking about how you 
 would handle things.
  -AI is very good, knowing where you and your squad mates are and planing accordingly.
  
  *The 
 Bad things (or the not so good ones) 
  -Gameplay is a little repetitive and boring.
  -The voice of the Nazi soldiers is the same as in COD 2 and 3.
  -Some bugs that include invisible 
 walls and getting stuck in several types of bushes.
  -VERY short.
  -The flamethrower is over powered. 
  -Some scripted moments ruin your game plan.
  
  So, if 
 you're looking for a pretty good story with tense moments and good AI, COD: WAW is the game for 
 you. But if you are a hardcore FPS gamer than this game will disappoint you. 
  
  (This review is based on my own personal opinion and not on other people's review or comments, 
 if you have any complaints about the way i reviewed this game I would be happy to talk about it. 
 Thank you for your understanding) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Amigro
Rating: 6.5
Date: Nov 11, 2008 10:12 am PT
Review:  It definitely feels like they have taken a step backwards. Whereas the WWII universe was quite 
 fun for a while, it got old after a few years and about 15 games doing it. I really enjoyed a change 
 of pace with Modern Warfare and thought it was pulled off very well.
  
  The gameplay is very mechanical imo. Knife kills are extremely unsatisfying and the movements of 
 the character and aiming just seems very off somehow. Also, as others have mentioned the graphics 
 are very bland and def looks like they dumbed them down significantly. 
  
  The game still maintained a lot of the good from CoD 4, so it is still pretty fun and I could see 
 myself enjoying it for a while, but I feel that a $50-60 price tag is over the top for this. It 
 does feel like a mod and I think I would much rather just see CoD4 get some new maps and use WWII 
 weapons over playing this. I might wait for this to go down in price and pick it up for $30 (which 
 probably won't take too long) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JeffreyCor
Rating: 1
Date: Nov 11, 2008 9:22 am PT
Review:  I had been looking forward to this coming out since it was announced. I loved COD4 and since this 
 was promoted as using the same engine, I was greatly anticipating another fantastic game. I was 
 horribly disappointed upon loading the game. The main focus is on online multiplayer, something 
 I and others have no real interest in. In order to play at all, even single player, which is now 
 called Solo, you have to create an online profile even if you never intend to go online at all. 
 The loading was quite slow, another first in the series as every other COD has had extremely fast 
 load times. This was a great disappointment for a game as it had so much promise but the developer 
 destroyed it. This is an embarrassment to the COD series. Any of the prior releases is far superior 
 to this joke, save your money and skip this nightmare. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: frank_78
Rating: 6
Date: Nov 11, 2008 6:56 am PT
Review:  As I said, the game is made by Treyarch and the difference is clear in my eyes...
  All in all the game is not very bad, the engine is the same of CoD4 and retain all of its strenghts, 
 but the story is not very compelling, you don't feel the characters and everything is quite confusing. 
 In Cod4 the story was very well introduced and evolved in every mission, you really felt that every 
 bullet you fired was a part of that story. In CoD5 you are thrown into the jungle with a rifle 
 and some targets to shoot, that's all. I mean, we all know how the WWII was, what happened and 
 all, but c'mon, try at least to put up some kind of sub-plot to the old main story, something to 
 give the game some kind of "new appeal" instead of "Sh**! another WWII shooter". Japanese soldiers 
 and bayonets cannot be considered a breakthrough innovation...
  Another bad thing is weapons sound...
  It seems that they have recorded sounds from soft-air 
 versions of real weapons...
  Please, give me back Infinity Ward developers... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sultan2007
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 11, 2008 6:33 am PT
Review:  from what I expected from previous COD games for this new cod turn out to be, starting from animation 
 technology, it rules! motion capture has got a lot better, you can see expressions on character 
 faces such as fear, mocking and anger, perfect physics and body-and bullet reactions. that ofc 
 goes along with very nice improved graphics, hardcore normal and bump maps on very well optimized 
 object models.
  
  sounds and voices are superb, Kiefer Sutherland adds special thrill to this game, just like he 
 did to 24!.
  
  so everything is there for you to experience how it was like when people drilled and broke into 
 lines of soldiers to fight for their country. I experienced goose bumper scene on 5th or maybe 
 6th mission playing as a Russian soldier crawling up the crowd invading Berlin, and there it was, 
 russian national like music, large buildings collapsing down with adding huge smoke to all around, 
 30 or 40 russian soldiers charging trough fleeing germans and all yelling something.
  
  I think this game deserves to be first of all played, and then praised and then remembered until 
 next COD series. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: printice21
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 11, 2008 3:43 am PT
Review:  Im playing this game on the P. C. and i must say im amazed it runs perfectly smooth (ala cod4 engine) 
 and still looks phenomenal.
  the gameplay is the same though, think call of duty 2 in the pacific.
  what they have done is 
 give it an art direction, it has a distinct ww2 oohrah marine corps feel which makes me feel nostalgic 
 being a marine myself.
  
  
  this time around they exercise that M rating, bullet wounds stabbing blood and exposed organs are 
 the horrors that abound on any battlefield especially back then, and unlike many war games that 
 depict ww2 without blood this game reminds you why post traumatic stress disorder is so prevalent 
 among our vets.
  
  they really did an outstanding job on the cinematics. the combat feel of, being part of a life 
 or death struggle, where you are not immortal and you need your buddies help to survive. the presentation 
 the lighting the color pallette used is all reminiscent of big budget movies however better due 
 to interactivity and depth. in short if youve ever enjoyed a war epic like flags of our fathers, 
 youll enjoy this.
  
  the audio is top notch i remember being in boot camp talking to the ww2 vets and they would tell 
 me how they remembered how the m1 garand would make a ping sound when the clip was spent, and this 
 game captures that faithfully, along with japanese war cries bullet impacts and explosions in short 
 it gives the player a good sense of what ww2 at least minutely sounded like
  
  the bottom line, its not cod4 where just about every thing was inovative fresh and relevant (cod4 
 gave me flashbacks) this game is the best at what it is. Top notch presentation, pulsepounding action, 
 impressive graphics, outstanding audio, faithful recreation of the source material, down to the 
 blood splatters determination, and grit that made this country into the superpower it is today. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: yzeng
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 11, 2008 2:14 am PT
Review:  Got it today, and took my 5 hours to beat the game in Normal.
  Here; s what I think.
  The Good:
  Very entertaining game
  the battles feel like COD series
  Optimized graphic 
 
  Flamer... Flamer...
  Banzai!!!
  
  The Bad
  Story is lame, and short and loose
  Not as dramatic..
  Sound effects are just WORNG!
  Too short. nothing new.
  
  I not saying 
 it is a bad game, but it just doesnt live up with my expectation. It does deliver a very, very good 
 gaming experience, and feels like COD series. But the thing is, nothing's new. It was fun to knife 
 those banzai attackers, and burning them is even more fun. btu the Russian campaign, on the other 
 hand, are just lame. 
  the worst thing about this game is the GUNS, their fire power, and their SOUND are just WRONG! 
 Never saw STG44 this weak. and the sound effect of that .30 cal. is like airsoft guns. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: huangzhihao
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 10, 2008 9:41 pm PT
Review:  Although a bit short, COD: WAW is meticulously done, and adds some more WW2 excitment.
  
  COD 2 was a great WW2 FPS game and i enjoyed playing it, but things only gets better. Call of Duty: World 
 at War not only learns from all the previous successes, but adds more to the immersion. Despite 
 all the improvements to the graphics, things like dismemberment of body parts and penetrable cover (from 
 COD4) made thing even more real. Nothing is more fun than throwing a grenade and watch the enemies' 
 arms and legs go flying. Since this time you get to fight the Japanese, there will also be a lot 
 of heart-beating moments as you try to survive the suicide charges and snipers hidden in trees... anyways, 
 let me make things short, World at War is easily one of the best FPS games out there. If you like 
 online games, it's totally worth it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Stryka321
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 10, 2008 9:39 pm PT
Review:  Best Call of Duty to date for sure! Improves on all aspects.
  
  Single player is simply awesome -- the Multiplayer takes that of Modern Warfare and builds upon it, 
 making it one of the best multiplayer games ever created. Co-op mode is just indescribably fun. 
 
  
  I've been playing BIA: Hells Highway, this COD blows that out of the water. The story, the immersion, 
 just ever aspect of the game. I can't stress it enough. Go out and buy this. You will not be disappointed. 
 Now go. GO NOW.
  
  
  Why are you still here? I mean, I thought I made myself quite clear, correct me if I'm wrong.
 
  
  
  
  
  You're still readign this for some reason. Can you tell me why? Stop reading.
  
  
  
  
 
  Go buy it. I mean really, I know my video games. This is the game is like like cake to fat kids, 
 jewelry to girlfriends, marijuana to stoners, a pacifier to a baby.... You just can't have enough 
 of it. So get off your seat and do something worthwhile. Buy COD: WaW -- now go. Make future you 
 happy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: krisalid
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 10, 2008 11:47 pm PT
Review:  We are getting used that every year a new episode from some games will appear. Call of Duty world 
 at war is not strange from this games. In this new installment we'll have to deal with the japs&germans. The 
 mechanic
  of the game is still the same (same mission style, same game play) but they are entertaining and we 
 loved them. From the beginning of the game you'll engage in some beach battles and I must say I 
 think that on normal difficulty setting it's tough to survive. The sensation of war this new episode 
 of COD is
  good, the enemy is appearing from everywhere and takes you by surprise. So far I didn't play online 
 but the campaign is engaging and worth playing. You'll be playing two characters along the game, one 
 is an american soldier (Miller) and the other russian (Dimitri) . Being pretty much similar to the other 
 series of the game for me it means that this game has a maximum 15-25 hours to play it yourself 
 in solo (campaign) mode, in other words you'll finished the game once maybe twice and you'll get 
 bored quickly. An annoying thing is that your team mates will block your way sometimes and is hard 
 to run for cover, other thing is that they spread around and you may kill them accidentally. Among 
 this I saw some minor bugs that will be fixed with some later patches.
  Graphics are at its best in this game nice environments, clear water and lots of corpses lying down. The 
 effect produced by the flamethrower is great and you ll notice that burning ashes flies to the 
 air. This concludes my review about COD World at WAR. If you're a fan of the series or you like world 
 war fps don't miss it.
  
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
