-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Call of Cthulhu: Dark Corners of the Earth
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/adventure/callofcthuludarkcornersoftheearth/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Great mix of adventure, exploration, action, and stealth mechanics.
 Creepy, compelling storyline.
 Invisible interface adds to immersion.
 Some outstanding audio.
 Intense chase sequences.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 A straight port of the Xbox version that could have been enhanced for the PC.
 Stealth and shooting sequences are relatively unimpressive on their own.
 Visuals look fairly dated at times.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: May  3, 2006
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7.9
Critic Score: 7.6, 17 Review (s)
User Score: 8.2, 1,318 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: 2K Games
Developer: Headfirst Prod.
Genre: Horror Action Adventure
Date:     Apr 26, 2006
ESRB: Mature

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
A thick, unsettling atmosphere fills this ambitious first-person action adventure, which makes up 
 for some frustrating moments and dated graphics with plenty of chills, variety, and originality. 
 

  Even the Old Ones themselves would have probably lost patience waiting for Call of Cthulhu: Dark 
 Corners of the Earth to finally show up. First unveiled more than six years ago, this horror-themed 
 action adventure based on the work of influential American horror writer H. P. Lovecraft is clearly 
 ambitious, mixing first-person action, sneaking, and adventure elements with a creepy story filled 
 with various surprises. The good news is that all the delays have resulted in a one-of-a-kind game 
 that fans of horror and action adventure gaming (and of H. P. Lovecraft) absolutely should check 
 out. However, the presentation looks somewhat dated at times, and some other aspects are also pretty 
 rough, just like the Xbox original released six months earlier. But if you can tolerate a few technical 
 deficiencies and are up for a significant challenge, then you can look forward to Call of Cthulhu 
 mightily impressing you and freaking you out equally in turn.  

          Hold on to your mind in this tense and memorable adventure.     

  This is essentially 
 the same game as the Xbox version, with the key differences being that the PC version supports 
 higher resolutions and its mouse-and-keyboard controls are slightly more responsive. It also retails 
 for a lower price. You play as Jack Walters, a private investigator with a history of mental instability. 
 But he's fine now, honest. Jack is trying to get his life and his career back on track, but he 
 just can't seem to remember a six-year period from his past. Soon after the opening of the game, 
 a missing-persons case takes Jack's attention away from his own predicament. He finds himself in 
 the quiet port of Innsmouth, a little-known shantytown with a rather standoffish populace. It's 
 a dismal place on first impression, filled with rundown buildings and thuggish residents who gurgle 
 veiled threats in response to Jack's inquiries. Before long, Jack begins to uncover a sinister 
 secret lurking just beneath the surface. He asks one too many questions and soon finds himself 
 fighting for his life against unspeakable horrors. The game does a great job of gradually magnifying 
 the sense of danger and the scope of the mess that Jack has gotten himself into, and it also does 
 pretty well at evoking the early-20th-century period in which the story takes place.  

  You don't need to be familiar with Lovecraft's stories or the Cthulhu mythos in order to enjoy 
 this game. In fact, the experience will be all the better if you go into it without any real sense 
 of what you're in store for. H. P. Lovecraft is best known for horror stories that attempt to describe 
 the indescribable -- horrifying things that can make a man go mad just from looking at them. Call 
 of Cthulhu: Dark Corners of the Earth captures the essence of Lovecraft's work by presenting the 
 entire game through Jack's own eyes, and by incorporating various elements that simulate how fleeting 
 Jack's sanity can be when faced with terrible sights and realizations. It doesn't help the poor 
 guy's case that he tends to have out-of-body experiences from time to time, which let him briefly 
 see the world through the eyes of some rather strange beings. The game also intersperses some choice 
 quotations from Lovecraft, as well as some well-written journal entries and other light reading 
 that helps set the stage for what's happening. Ironically, if any aspect of the presentation doesn't 
 really fit, it's Jack himself. It's his voice in particular, since he sounds like a matter-of-fact 
 private detective... only, his rather calm demeanor isn't consistent with how he's supposedly being 
 driven half mad by what's happening around him. The voice performance itself is fine, but it's 
 too bad Jack sounds so brave.  

  Call of Cthulhu: Dark Corners of the Earth looks like it's a first-person shooter, but it combines 
 action and adventure elements in equal parts (fans of the Thief, Deus Ex, and System Shock series 
 will be in store for a similar kind of game) . In fact, for a large portion of the game, Jack is 
 unarmed, and he'll need to make progress using his detective work rather than his brawn. The game 
 is probably at its best when no shooting is involved, since the shooting portions aren't that great. 
 Your enemies will sometimes use cover when attacking you, but they don't behave very believably 
 in battle, and their bodies quickly vanish when killed. It's a long time before you get into any 
 pure action in Call of Cthulhu, and when it happens, it's at once thrilling and a little disappointing -- thrilling 
 because there's been so much buildup and tension leading up to the fighting, and disappointing 
 because the foes you're facing aren't as cunning as you'd hope. Fortunately, the game rarely attempts 
 to create challenge just by thrusting you into first-person shooter sequences, and the shooter 
 portions are at least decent. The period weapons you'll get to use, such as Tommy guns and revolvers, 
 feel like they pack a mean punch.  

          There's something fishy about the surly residents of Innsmouth...     

  The stealth 
 portions are pretty good, too, especially because the game never flat-out forces you to be stealthy -- it's 
 just a means to an end, useful for avoiding combat (such as when you're unarmed) or getting the 
 drop on your enemies. But if you're spotted, you can always fight... or run. Later in the game, 
 you'll get to perform some highly gratifying stealth kills by plunging a knife into the backs of 
 unaware opponents, who totally deserve it, by the way. All throughout, though, you'll be able to 
 avoid confrontation by sticking to the shadows and keeping a low profile. You may also peek (and 
 shoot) around corners in your efforts to stay safely out of sight.  

  Others have tried, but Call of Cthulhu is one of the first games to date to succeed at presenting 
 a completely clutter-free first-person viewpoint. There are no health bars or ammo counts or anything 
 to get in the way of your suspension of disbelief, yet the game still provides sufficient visual 
 and audio feedback to keep you informed while playing. While there will probably be times when 
 you'll wish the game were a bit more transparent about telling you when your health is low or when 
 you're in danger of being detected by enemies, Call of Cthulhu's invisible interface definitely 
 is to the game's credit. There isn't even an aiming reticle for any of the guns -- you just aim down 
 the sights to line up your targets. And you know you've taken damage when you see spurts of blood 
 along the edges of the screen, and subsequently start to hear Jack gasping in pain and losing color 
 vision. You can even have your limbs broken -- you'll cringe listening to Jack trying to walk with 
 a busted leg. Fortunately, he's got first aid kits to bring him back into shape. First aid takes 
 a few seconds to apply, so you can't use your kits in the middle of a fight, but you can use them 
 in a safe spot to cure fractures, bullet wounds, and so on. No, that's not realistic, but it's 
 a good-enough system that's in keeping with the spirit of the game -- Jack can't survive much damage 
 in the first place.     

  Call of Cthulhu also features heavy adventure elements, in the form of exploration and puzzle-solving. 
 A couple of puzzles involve pattern recognition while others simply require you to use the right 
 inventory objects in the right places. The puzzles aren't very difficult, but when combined with 
 the game's rather large and complex environments, they can make it tough to figure out how to proceed. 
 You don't have a map in Call of Cthulhu, and there's no mission-objectives screen or anything like 
 that, so it's possible that you might get confused and disoriented at times -- yet even this is roughly 
 in keeping with the feel the game is trying to evoke, unless you become too frustrated or completely 
 stuck. Fortunately, the plot and premise is compelling enough that it's worth suffering through 
 the occasional tight spot. It's all the more exciting and satisfying when you finally get past 
 those parts and set foot in new territory.  

          There's some shooting to be done, but you'll also need to do some good detective work and 
 some good old-fashioned running away.     

  The game also deserves praise for creating some truly harrowing chase sequences. For whatever reason, 
 horror games tend to be heavily focused on combat, but the scariest things are the ones that force 
 you to flee. While Call of Cthulhu's escape scenes are scripted to play out a particular way each 
 time, they absolutely make you feel desperate to survive. To slow down your foes, you're able to 
 bolt doors, which buys you precious seconds as you continue your escape. The music swells to a 
 crescendo and your enemies' screams are deafening as you scramble to find a way out. These escapes 
 are definitely some of the moments that stick out the most vividly in hindsight.  

  Call of Cthulhu has a lot of great moments in it, actually. You view the action through Jack's 
 eyes practically the whole way through, so all the game's noninteractive cutscenes are still done 
 from a first-person viewpoint, where you see Jack manipulating various objects and so on. Some 
 of these interactions are amazingly lifelike in a subtle way, like how Jack gingerly manipulates 
 the combination lock on a safe, for instance. So it's a bit of a shame that these bits tend to 
 switch to a grainy letterboxed view, which informs you that you no longer have control for the 
 moment and takes you out of the experience. And for all the great attention to detail, it makes 
 you notice things you might take for granted in other games, like how Jack doesn't put away his 
 gun when he climbs a ladder, or how you can't see your feet when you look down. Nevertheless, Call 
 of Cthulhu is much more convincing than many other first-person games in how it makes you feel 
 as though you're really there in the environments. When you reach some of the later stages, you'll 
 truly get the impression that you're exploring places that no normal person was ever meant to find. 

  You'll also feel sorry for Jack, who goes through an awful lot, all the way up through the game's 
 disturbing, fittingly Lovecraftian ending. As he begins to see the truth behind the Esoteric Order 
 of Dagon -- the religious cult that seems to have Innsmouth under its complete control -- his sanity 
 will be threatened. Specifically, your vision will start to blur if not swim, and you'll start 
 hearing Jack muttering to himself or his teeth chattering. These purposely distracting effects 
 are well done and help make some of the game's bigger confrontations all the more bewildering. 
 The sanity effects are temporary and tend to dissipate quickly if you find one of the game's save 
 points, which take the form of unusual white glyphs painted on certain walls. These glyphs look 
 ominous, but in a testament to how effectively creepy Call of Cthulhu can be, you'll catch yourself 
 breathing a sigh of relief whenever you spot one of these safe havens. You might still be frustrated 
 by the limited save system, which is a holdover from the Xbox version. Not only can you not save 
 your progress except at these certain points, but you also have a limited number of save slots 
 to work with. However, the limited save system is probably for the best, since being about to quicksave 
 your way through a game like this would sap a lot of its tension.  

  What the game lacks in high-fidelity graphics it makes up for with surprising variety. Character 
 animations are sometimes a little choppy, textures are noticeably blurry, and weapon models look 
 plain, so you might catch Call of Cthulhu looking like a second-rate shooter from time to time. 
 Much more often, though, you'll find a lot of great little touches in the environments, which are 
 surprisingly expansive in spite of how much there is to see and do in them. Unfortunately, Call 
 of Cthulhu lacks support for wide-screen resolutions, which would be perfect for viewing a cinematic 
 game such as this. But the game manages to look great anyway, thanks to excellent art direction 
 that results in some highly atmospheric locales. You could easily imagine that had it been released 
 a few years ago when it was originally supposed to, it would have looked amazing. Luckily, the 
 visual style still succeeds at drawing you into the experience, even despite some graphical holdovers 
 from the Xbox, like the ugly, low-res inventory system.  

          What Call of Cthulhu lacks in fancy effects, it makes up for with style and originality. 
     

  The noticeable repetition in Jack's and his enemies' dialogue is the main knock against the often-outstanding 
 sound. As mentioned, Jack's narration isn't a perfect fit for the circumstances, but most of the 
 speech throughout the game is delivered convincingly, and Jack's enemies sound especially good. 
 Gunfire is piercingly loud, and various ambient effects help thicken the atmosphere. There's also 
 some great music throughout Call of Cthulhu, which tends to cue up nicely with whatever's happening 
 onscreen.  

  Jack Walters' journey to the dark corners of the Earth should take you at least a good, densely 
 packed 10 to 12 hours, but it could easily take more, depending on how long the tougher bits stump 
 you. You then unlock a tougher difficulty mode (there's still another one to unlock after that) , 
 which heightens the challenge by making ammo scarcer and enemy encounters harder to survive. The 
 game also ranks you based on how quickly you reached the end, how often you saved your progress, 
 and other factors, in case you want to pay another visit to Innsmouth and its outskirts. So there's 
 some value in revisiting the adventure -- but your first time playing through Call of Cthulhu: Dark 
 Corners of the Earth is liable to leave a lasting impression no matter what.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (75 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Cunhao
Rating: 7.5
Date: Apr 11, 2009 6:46 am PT
Review:  H. P. Lovecraft made his reputation writing about nightmares. But not any kind of nightmares, but 
 the kind that can make anyone go mad. Also, he wrote about many things about creatures that are 
 over any imagination, about horrors beyond human comprehension, and Call of Cthulhu Dark Corners 
 of the Earth just make everything come alive.
  
  In this game, you control Jack, a private detective, that is just trying to discovery what happened 
 to him six years ago, because he just don't remember a thing! But, soon, he'll be more things to 
 worry about, mainly when he got involved with the mysteries of one little city called Insmouth, 
 where almost all the history will pass there. Technically, the last thing that Call of Cthulhu 
 DCE have to worry is about history. Only the fact of being a adaptation from Lovecraft makes the 
 history a great positive point for it. Also, the producers just did a good job to tell the history 
 in the right way, in the right moments, with the right methods to suck you in.
  
  But, for the most who will play or played this game, can be disappointed about the dated graphics. 
 In my opinion, the graphics just make good for this game, with only a few complaints about it:
 
  
  - For a game that uses a lot of sneak action, the light and shadows should be more realistic and 
 well made.
  - The water is something that just don't look like water...
  
  Even this game being released in 2006, it's engine just look like one from three or four years 
 ago, maybe more older. But the game make a great job in using all sorts of effects. Jack can be 
 affected by many feelings and situations that can make him dizzy and almost in a "shock state". 
 And the game passes this to the player very well, making screen distortions of all kinds, depending 
 in what is happening or in what happened. This just help to increase the immersion level.
  
  Sometimes, Jack will also have some sort of visions, sometimes in flashbacks and, other times, 
 like he have some sort of premonition.
  
  The healing system can be a little strange, but fits very well in this game. Jack is very vulnerable 
 and will have to heal many times through the game. If you got a wound and don't heal, Jack will 
 just bleed to death. If you fall from a higher ground, Jack can brake his lag, making him slower 
 and bleed. But all this can be fixed using the med kit. But, if you try to heal in a middle of 
 a fight, Jack will not be able to finish the healing, because he need of a little time to heal, 
 and, how more wounds, more time he'll need to do it. So, every time that you need to heal, you 
 have to find a safe place or find some cover to do it. And you can ask me "how I'll know when to 
 heal, if Call of Cthulhu don't uses a hud?". Simple my friend! This game just make you feel that 
 you don't need one. Every time that Jack got hurt, his vision will blur or you'll see blood in 
 your vision. Also, his breath will become more stronger and the vision will start to fade while 
 he loose blood.
  
  Talking about combats, here, they're not the best or the most satisfactory. Instead, the stealth 
 action can be much more fun and much more immersible too, because you're a detective and not a 
 soldier! Besides, acting in the shadows can make your life easier in almost all the parts of the 
 game.
  
  The puzzles can be a little easy at times. But, if wasn't the nice level design, the puzzles can 
 be challenging at times, mixing them with the stealth action.
  
  If you just search a good game with a great history with a little but tolerable issues with the 
 gameplay and graphics, Call of Cthulhu is the game for you. Also, you don't need to know or don't 
 have to read any of the books of Lovecraft to understand and fully being sucked by his histories 
 about Cthulhu and it's universe.
  
  # More positive points:
  
  - The 1930 period is perfect for the atmosphere of mystery and horror;
  - Violent and gore, with 
 the right of mutilated corpses and many strong scenes;
  - Good sound and music.
  
  # More negative points:
  
  - The voices can be very convict at times, but they can break the 
 immersion, mainly Jack's voice;
  - The time fade of the corpses;
  - For it's time, the AI just make very, very ugly; 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pooyas
Rating: 5
Date: Jan 30, 2009 1:44 am PT
Review:  Call of Cthulhu is a thrilling game which makes you stressful throughout the game. The horror is 
 all over the place and sudden flashbacks or strange noises add the horror even more. The story 
 of the game is about a private detective which has some accidents in one of his cases and brought 
 to the mental house for his madness but after a short time he was released and back to work with 
 a loss of some of his memories. 
  
  The detective's first days of work lead him to a case in a mysterious and yet scary town. The town 
 of local fishermen who do not appreciate the existence of any outsider. This makes the work even 
 harder to communicate with these ignorant people. The goal is to find a missing person who also 
 is accused of robbing his own store. 
  
  The game story is first to find the missing guy but then leads to more; find the roots of evil 
 in the town. The game is a bit scary and lots of horror times also adds the thrill but there are 
 lots of issues and drawback which prevents the joy of the game. There are lots of graphical issues. 
 You stuck in the space or stuck under the rock without being able to move unless you restart from 
 the last checkpoint. There are also issues with the sound; the dialogs may become incomplete and 
 cut of in the middle. If you are using dual core CPUs you may need to also disable one of them 
 or the game may crash. 
  
  The drawbacks are more than the joy you can get from the game. Yet if you are interested in playing 
 it beware of the hardware issues. It may upset you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mike-Fang
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 12, 2008 10:22 pm PT
Review:  I played Call of Cthulhu: Dark Corners of The Earth a while back, and the memory of the game still 
 sticks with me today. I wish I could see more games on the premise of a late 20's, early '30's 
 private eye investigating supernatural horrors. More games with invisible interfaces to make them 
 more lifelike would also be a plus. But while this game's story is something Lovecraft himself 
 may have been proud of (if he hadn't been such a manic-depressive, albeit brilliant, lunatic) , 
 some of the game's mechanics have serious issues. 
  
  The story behind this game is excellent in its reflection of the Lovecraft Mythos. It deals with 
 many of the themes Lovecraft used in his stories; madness, cults, powerful creatures from other 
 worlds, mutation and heritage. You'll find yourself being pulled into the mindset of Jack Walters, 
 the protagonist private eye, compelled to discover the truth no matter how horrifying the truth 
 becomes. 
  
  The pacing of the game is also a spot where it shines. You feel a growing sense of tension through 
 many parts of the game, which eventually lead up to you either having to fight for your life against 
 deranged cult members and bloodthirsty deep ones, or run for your life while horrors you don't 
 want to imagine, such as a Shoggoth, are closing in behind you. 
  
  However, there are game mechanics that are hard to grasp. The combat system can be difficult for 
 those who are too used to having a hovering crosshair in the middle of their screen. However, once 
 you get used to ironsight aiming, this can be quickly overcome. However, when looking at the game's 
 performance rating system, you can get the distinct impression that even being a crack shot will 
 bring down your rating. It seems as though the game wants to force you to be an ineffective weakling, 
 even if you have the stealth and marksmanship to be a serious threat to the followers of Cthulhu, 
 Dagon, Hydra and the deep ones. 
  
  Movement is also another problem. While the game does an okay job of giving you the ability to 
 hide, it never does much to give you the ability to get your rear in gear when trouble arises. 
 During most of the game this isn't a problem, but during some of the more hectic chase scenes, 
 it can create a problem when you're trying to sprint down a hallway, but instead feel like you're 
 doing little more then strolling. 
  
  In all Call of Cthulhu: Dark Corners of The Earth is a game that I'd highly recommend for an immersive 
 story and an interesting and revolutionary interface. Just be prepared to get used to a slightly 
 different combat mechanic... and to not be rewarded for it when you get the hang of it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jfsebastianII
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 2, 2008 12:56 pm PT
Review:  In this first person FPS/adventure hybrid you play put-upon private investigator Jack Walters, 
 as he follows an increasingly macabre mystery back to its source.
  
  The game shows you Jack's physical and also mental condition, both through sound and visual techniques. 
 These are cleverly done in a way that means there's no HUD-type display of any kind, just what 
 Jack sees.
  
  The action takes you to several locations, which become increasingly alien in nature.
  
  The 
 first part essentially requires stealth, then you acquire weapons and the shooting starts - even 
 then though there's a fair bit of stealth involved and you occasionally find yourself back to scratch 
 re weapons. Most of the guns are quite satisfying, and Jack's movement is reasonably slicklly handled 
 for a game that isn't an out-and-out FPS. 
  
  You also have an inventory to examine Jack's case files and items, and treat his injuries. 
  
 
  The puzzles use logic and are normally satisfying, without being too obscure.
  As there are save points rather than a save-when-you-want system, the action sequences involve 
 metaphorically jumping through a series of hoops, either puzzles, or fight-related, to get to the 
 next save point. Although I don't normally like save-points in FPS, in this adventure/FPS hybrid 
 game it worked well at times  persistence paid off, and it actually added to the suspense of the 
 game at times, knowing that if I failed/was killed I'd have to go back and do it all again!
  
  The plot, use of emotional triggers and general game effects make this a genuinely creepy experience, 
 and it's a testimony to this that I stuck with the game despite its faults.
  
  The game's general atmosphere was sufficiently creepy that, wondering around a town full of creepy 
 people who were not-quite-zombies, i actually jumped when i turned around to find one of them had 
 happened to walk up behind me!
  
  In terms of the overall quality of graphics, the GS review criticises this , but i have to say 
 i don't see the problem - they're more than adequate to involve you with what's going on and create 
 genuine tension. I'm surprised the GS review is so negative about them.
  
  So now to those faults: there were three big problems I encountered with the game, two of them 
 design faults, the other a bug-related issue.
  
  First of all the game uses cut scenes - this is fine as far as it goes - as we all know they can 
 introduce a new part of the game and add suspense and impact. But once you've seen a cutscene you 
 don't need to see it every time  unfortunately there was no way of skipping through them, and 
 without the ability to save just after, you end up having to sit through a sometimes lengthy scene 
 which immediately gives way to a dangerous situation  so you inevitably die a few times, and it's 
 back to the cutscene. This got really annoying. 
  
  The second was the distribution of save points. At times there were two almost on top of each other, 
 at other times you had to get through two or more highly complicated action sequences before being 
 able to save  this got really aggravating at times also. 
  A combination of these first two issues led to me not completing the final escape sequence of the 
 game, as I just got too bored with being killed every time.
  
  Lastly, I encountered (from about 2/3rds of the way through) a big problem with the inventory  
 it slowed down to a snail's pace, despite the rest of the game running perfectly. This too became 
 very aggravating, as there are times when you have to check the inventory quite frequently. I should 
 point out that when I googled this problem, as well as checking with other Gamespot users, no-one 
 seemed to have encountered it, so I may just have been unlucky.
  
  All of this damaged the suspense of the game, and as others point out there were times that much 
 of the carefully-created atmosphere was lost by it.
  
  I ought to admit I haven't played many first-person adventure games - one other game I have played 
 is Sherlock Holmes: The awakened. In most ways I would rate this game above that one - it's longer 
 and more immersive, not least because in the SH game you swap characters occasionally
  
  So should you play it? Well, it depends on how patient you are I think. I must say I'm glad I persevered, 
 not least because it revealed to me almost Zen-like quantities of patience of which I was not previously 
 aware. For the game's good qualities, I'd have awarded a 9, but the drawbacks have really damaged 
 that score.
  
  I would say play it, but play on the easiest level (I chose the next one up  you only get offered 
 the two first time round, though I really wonder how many people would play this twice) and prepare 
 to be patient!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: freudlacan
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 19, 2008 11:55 am PT
Review:  I had this game in my stock from a long time, and didnt play it, I just tought it was gona be a 
 stupid runing and pixel search game as other horror adventure games ive played before, I was a 
 foll for not playing it before.
  
  This is indeed one of the greatest games Ive ever played, Its a pretty bloddy, neurotic and sick 
 game as you can spect from H. P. Lovecraft.
  
  The game its beautifully done, and I have to say I really got pretty dissy at some parts I was 
 almost going to throw up, but that was great, not every game makes you feel like that.
  
  I just have to say to cricitic things about the game, first this kind of game should have a more 
 flexible saving option, cause some secuences are pretty hard and you are craving for a save point 
 to come around, and second, and this is at least for me, it was a sad ending, even if you ot to 
 warch it entirelly, but well, not every game can have happy endings and thtas right.
  
  Anod onje last good thing on the game its that every time I tought It was allerady over it keep 
 ecoming to another episode, soo its a big game and thts pretty good concidering it does not spent 
 as mutch space as other shorted games in my HD.
  
  Enjoy it 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shalock
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 16, 2008 1:36 pm PT
Review:  Ive read the Call of Cthulhu and some other tales from the mythos, and i have to say that this 
 game has a great degree of success bringing all the terror, the pain, the horror and the amazing 
 elements that make still today the tales of Lovecraft unique.
  
  You start as a police officer (if i dont remember wrong) that goes to help in the ride of a house 
 full of lunatics that have been causing disturbs in the town, everything goes well, not too normal 
 but well and in some point (no spoilers :D) everything changes and you have to start your life 
 again and try to rememer who you are and what happened in several years you think lost, the story 
 its grate as you reveal more pieces of the puzzle and travel deeper into the horror.
  
  Even when this game is played in first person view, isnt a shooter, of course, you have plenty 
 of firefights and the guns are the only way (most of the time) to survive close encounters with 
 the horror. The great of this perspective is that allows you to experiment and feel closely all 
 the sensations the main character has: pain, terror, vertigo, madness, vissions, etc.
  
  The fear element its a great new element, when in other games you are an unstoppable destruction 
 machine with no fear for any monster, devil, demon, or intergalactic alien menace you face, in 
 de CoC you have to be careful exposing your character to potential traumatazing situations, because 
 he scares, his vision blurs, start breathing faster, and even can end dead (you have a conveniently 
 adapted heart beat diagram to follow the track of your condition) but in most the cases isnt necesary 
 to use, because the game transmit you perfectly the feelings.
  
  Theres a couple of thing that really bored me in this game. First, the sneakings parts arent too 
 well crafted as you expect, its extremly hard to sneak in some parts and you have to do it obligatory 
 because theres no other way (gun blazing exits) to solve the situation or escape. The second its 
 the difficult, even in the easiest of difficults there are parts (specially at the end of the game) 
 where its almost impossible and extremly hard to pass.
  
  All in all its a great game that you should play with the lights off and let yourself enjoy the 
 terror of the Dark Corners of the Earth. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Xeuton_Mojukai
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 11, 2008 10:40 pm PT
Review:  Call of Cthulhu is one of those games that has issues in its execution. The aiming system is a 
 little tough to get used to, sounds are underwhelming, visuals are not quite enough to really get 
 the desired effect across, and every once in a while, things will just be so annoyingly hard to 
 understand that it will require a long hiatus from playing in order to lose the frustration.
  
  Despite that, it has a great, incredible story. It has intense action, terrifying horror, realistic 
 atmosphere, and very good voice acting (though implementation should have been improved) . The music 
 is great, as is the writing and integration of the mythos. Overall, this game should not be missed 
 if you want to have your psyche scarred for life. Even so, it will be scarred in the best possible 
 way.
  
  ~ XM 
::::::

::::::
UserName: taraboi1
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 19, 2008 5:22 am PT
Review:  Call of Cthulhu is an amazing, atmospheric and brilliant game. This s a psychological-horror game 
 and unlike Doom of other games, it's not based on cheap scares, enemies coming from the dark BOO 
 (lol) . This game makes you scared differently. It throws a deep and immersive story that will make 
 you really think about what's going on, the atmosphere in the game is creepy in it's own right 
 and it has a few visual effects that could easily make you dizzy and really feel sick, just like 
 the character is sometimes. The graphics aren't really great, but as I said the effects are wonderfully 
 done. I'm surprised that not many people played this and didn't make it into the top games of 2006, 
 but then again I can see why. The game is frightening, not for everyone, especially not for epileptic 
 people, ones who suffer from seizures, or who generally can be scared easily or who get too ill 
 from some of the graphical effects, so maybe it's best for it to stay in the underground. Personally, 
 I only get a little dizzy and I'm surprised because at first they look like your general motion 
 blur but no, you have to experience it for yourself, it's awesome, I definitely recommend it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Karl319
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 29, 2009 12:50 am PT
Review:  I'm personally a fan of H. P. Lovecraft's works, Cthulhu and the mythos. 
  
  I had great hopes for the game, even tho it had somewhat mixed reviews I was confident that I can 
 forgive a few issues because of my fascination with all things lovecraftian. And indeed I could 
 forgive a few, more than enough to make the game fun and enjoyable.
  
  Graphics were my main disappointment, they're pleasing when you're moving around and not paying 
 attention. However if you look too close it'll lead to disappointment. The option or lack of option 
 to remove the grain filter was frustrating as well. But after playing through enough of the game 
 with it, it kinda added to the atmosphere. The atmosphere itself being nearly great.
  
  The atmosphere in a game such as this should be morbid, decayed, paranoia inducing and of course 
 frightening .... the latter of which, I failed to experience. I read about the fear factor in this 
 game from users and reviews, but never saw it. Blood, gore, screaming and the dark nor a shoggoth 
 affected me as much as it did the player character. Whose sanity seems a bit weak but hey, least 
 he gets to experience the horror aspects.
  
  The morbid and decayed feeling is gotten right however, lots of grimy and dirty textures. A lack 
 of modern era shadows were perhaps the most lacking of features and would really have helped set 
 the mood. Even with every graphical option turned up it wont look more than "good", and the levels 
 sometimes lack detail in much needed places.
  
  The audio gets the job done, voice acting is solid and other sounds are well fitting, perhaps more 
 idle background ambient sounds would have fit the late night alleys of Insmouth more than the silence 
 of the night. Roars, screams, guns and the like are mostly pleasing to hear. Even Cthulhu's silent 
 whispers in his altar room.
  
  
  Lets see, gameplay. Gameplay is a mixture of puzzle solving, stealth and some minor combat. There 
 are very fun chase scenarios, most memorably to all the hotel chase, reminiscent of the book. Being 
 almost as intense, as you run from door to door bolting them shut and blocking them with items 
 to buy you a few seconds of time to run. The gunfights are somewhat disappointing as bodies vanish 
 into thin air and at some parts enemies are endless. The lack of good AI doesn't help even things 
 out either.
  
  Friendly characters don't do much to help either, mostly they're just there for you to worry about. 
 The levels in which you adventure are fairly varied, with one specific level being, to me, unbearable. 
 Namely the Marsh Refinery, it's just a long tedious and painful drag through a factory and really 
 had me getting bored, even with the shoggoths. The cinematic cutscenes are quite pleasing, ranging 
 from creepy to cruel, most notably the insane asylum hallway scenes which I found enjoyable. The 
 characters in the story aren't too lovable, memorable yes, but I didn't miss any of them.
  
  Tho I did feel sorry for one girl who died because I was clueless as to what to do. I was in 
 the warehouse at the docks and there was a woman in one of the larger hangars, on some scaffolding 
 up in the ceiling screaming "Help, hurry" as the floor underneath her was shaking. I ran around 
 the room for 5 minutes trying to figure out what to do with her constantly repeating her cry for 
 help and me in my head going "OH hang on, I'll think of something" followed shortly by the floor 
 breaking and me going. Needless to say I probably missed the obvious. But hey, if I were to spoil 
 the next few minutes it wouldn't matter in the long run. But alright, no spoilers no spoilers.
 
  
  The healing system takes a lot of getting used to, having to tend to separate parts of your body 
 with separate medical items. So if you don't fix that leg, you'll be limping all the way to the 
 next medical cabinet.
  
  Multiplayer, none, no big deal.
  
  Well, that's about all that stuck in my head, a good game if you're a Cthulhu fan, and face it, 
 it's all we got for now.
  
  Worth playing, 7 of 10, good!
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Voldy26
Rating: 3
Date: May 26, 2008 2:38 am PT
Review:  That this game has graphics that shouldn't be allowed after Half-Life 2, combined with a noise 
 effect that can't be turned off - that I could forgive. That it lacks subtlety, I could forgive 
 as well. What I can't forgive is that it forces repetition on you like no other game I've ever 
 played. It's not enough that cutscenes and certain dialogues can't be skipped, but the game also 
 employs the system of save points. SAVE POINTS, for crying out loud! You'd have thought all game 
 developers would have realized by now that the idea of save points is sheer idiocy, but apparently 
 it has yet to dawn on some of them. As a result, I still haven't progressed past the first battle. 
 Nor do I intend to, anymore. I have better things to do with my time than doing a hundred times 
 what I should have to do only once. As soon as I'm finished writing this, the game feeds the wastebasket. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pinhaldecoina
Rating: 9
Date: May 20, 2008 3:59 pm PT
Review:  great adventure, this is the kind of games of we must played in dark and whith the phones put on. if 
 the movies you saw i the cinema dont scary you so you must try this one, its not a movie but if 
 the hollywood saw this one, probably they bring them to the big screen. this is the kind a game wen 
 you played you just dont whant to stop, the game brings suspence a mistery in every level and you 
 just what to no more to the end of story. but dint trust my words, tryed... i wonder whay the gamespot 
 just give a 7.9score ,i give them a 9 minimun. this is not a big graphic game, but its enuff for 
 every pc players, will adjust in every machine. i just whait for the sequel ffor this one i will 
 be the first to buy it, this reminds me the stories of iindiana jones wen we see safes codes, skauls, secret 
 passages, demons and a strange towns and people. well if you like this kind a games you must not 
 forgot this one. because its the best in series. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hardboiled15
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 24, 2008 3:12 pm PT
Review:  I played through all silent hill games bacause i wanted that creppy feeling but in the end i wasnt 
 scared at all quite the opposite but this game delivers its scary as hell. Play the game turn of 
 the lights and this beats every horror movie and game its just really creppy.
  
  in the first half of the game you dont have any weapon. Its more about sneaking past your foes 
 than killing them. Somethimes you are forced to run for your life and it feels like somebody really 
 is hunting you very nice done! The game has no HUD and its great for the overal feeling of the 
 game. Sure the graphics isnt all that great and there is some technical glitches to be found but 
 that does not affect the overal feeling of the game.
  
  This game is the first horror game that really is creppy if you dont get scared by games as silent 
 hill then but this game NOW! You wont regret it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gamer_DK
Rating: 3.5
Date: Feb 10, 2008 12:21 am PT
Review:  I picked up the game recently as it had good grades on gamespot and was cheap. As a Deus Ex fan 
 and I had my hopes high. I tried the roleplaying game along time ago so I was a bit familiar with 
 the setting. I played the game at medium difficulty.
  
  The game runs well even on my old system with a Geforce 5700 card which was surprising. Its graphics 
 may be dated for some but they are still good and, more importantly, the graphics and sounds succeed 
 in conveying a creepy and 1920ish atmosphere. In fact, the art of this game is pretty close to 
 awesome with good combinations of claustrophobic and open environments. The part of the game with 
 more alien surroundings feel monstrous in a good way. The horror element of this game is also very 
 nicely done. Hearing our dear investigator turning slightly mad with blurring vision and/or hearing 
 voices fits well within the game and in the right places. The effects of sanity loss, injury and 
 the lack of UI, in general work, very well. Normal injuries result in blood splattering, loss of 
 colour-vision and problems with moving. The effect of breaking a bone and trying to walk still 
 give me goose pimples. Besides some cut-scenes the game usually sticks to the 1st person view and 
 then adds a wide-screen effect when something happens that the player can't do anything about. 
 In short, it's neither the horror element nor the very good atmosphere that fail this game.
  
  As usual with these types of games there is a puzzle element, a shooter element and stealth 
 element. There's also a feel of adventure game to it but that is mostly in the beginning where 
 the game disguise its linear plot nicely story wise. The game also has its share of chase scenes 
 which alone comes so close to make the game a great experience. The game uses a beacon and chapter 
 saving system with limited slots. It tends to place the beacons the right places just prior to 
 and after difficult encounters. To be honest I don't think the usual save-anywhere could have saved 
 the game but it would have helped.
  The puzzle elements that consist of figuring out riddles are good enough. The puzzle elements that 
 consist of jumping the right crates or pulling the right levers and not setting off a trap are 
 utter frustration. It's on trial and error base and you found yourself setting off deadly traps 
 deliberately in a vain effort to make progress in the game. Sometimes you get things right in the 
 first try without even knowing it. These kind of puzzles are poorly introduced and the logic behind 
 them often missing. These kinds of puzzles are so frequent, particular in the later half of the 
 game, that it effectively ruined the game for me. Killing the player without warning is forgiven 
 to some point and happens in most great games but here it becomes a rule.
  The stealth element of the game is long and the first half of the game is more or less stealth 
 only with no guns. You try to avoid an entire town of madmen in very confined quarters and it makes 
 for some good horror moments. However, the trial and error element is strong here as well. It's 
 easy to be detected and once you are its usually back to a save point. The game does succeed in 
 generating some genuine hate for those townsfolk so when you finally get a gun its not a moment 
 too soon. You really want to blast those people Unfortunately, you are very short on ammo. This 
 happens in many games but I personally hate it. If I get a gun I want to go around guns blazing. 
 In particular in this game because at this point the story works well and you really want to start 
 killing evil people. Until the end of the game ammo is in short supply so stealth is still needed. 
 And luck. The shooting itself is ok when it comes true. The manual aim is nicely done and enemy 
 AI is fair. It does take some getting used to. Weapons are old-fashioned and works ok I liked the 
 shotgun. You have real choices to make when choosing which weapon for any given situation. Combat 
 can be good and intense but ammo usually restricts this. Usually the game throws a lot of enemies 
 at you so you have to "kite" them into somewhere where they can't go or where they line up nicely. 
 There are some chase-scenes and moments that really give a rush. One of them is a long chase through 
 apartments, on stairwells and onto the top of a building. It worked great but probably because 
 I got it right (most of it) in the first couple of tries. There are other greats scenes but they 
 are subject to the trial and error syndrome too such an extent that it just becomes too much. In 
 the end this syndrome made me lose faith in the game. For every great moment I knew there was a 
 lot of frustration ahead to the point where I stopped caring and trying. The final boss scene even 
 had an ugly bug in it. The game tries a lot and fails which is a shame because games with these 
 gameplay elements are needed. In retrospect I would have preferred it shorter and with more shooting 
 and less stealth. This game could have afforded to be easier because of the good story and a good 
 setting.
  I only completed this game because I started to use a walk-through. I only recommend this game 
 if you use such and have it right next to you but then you lose the surprise factor. I suppose 
 the hardcore gamers with enough time can get something out of this game but the casual gamers with 
 constraint on time should avoid it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: biplob168
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 30, 2007 4:36 am PT
Review:  Well we have played lot's of horror games but best one will satisfy u with everything i'm not saying 
 that dis game doesn't have any minus point some annoying level can turn u down but if u'll try 
 hard then u can beat this game at once.1st let's talk about graphic this game have it's own styling 
 graphic u can't say it's a minus point cuz this graphic r match with environment. Sound quality 
 is average and game play style is awesome. Story line is gr8 dude! if u'll play this game with real 
 feeling i guess u can't play it at night if u'll be serious experience real horror in u'r own pc 
 at night. Best lvl u'll be scare when escape from that hotel. I'm writing this review cuz this game 
 really pleased me i really like it and in my opinion every should this game have some kinda bug 
 but ok u still can play this game. This game can't beat resident evil 4 but still it's good. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JmorebideGarc
Rating: 8.6
Date: Dec 7, 2007 1:12 pm PT
Review:  Spending several long and dutiful years in production, Call of Cthulhu has finally been released 
 to the apathetic public. Expanding on the various themes depicted in the HP Lovecraft novels, CoC 
 creates a world like no other. Personally, my love for this game comes entirely out of the way 
 it completely engulfed me into the horrific world. That is to say, that I was truly taken back 
 by several events in the story. Such as an earlier stage in which the character is pursued by angry 
 townsfolk in a rustic hotel. The player is forced to block doors, and create obstacles to hinder 
 their pursuers. The very event will have most players sweating bullets, trying to stay ahead. 
 
  
  Having been unfamiliar with the novels, I'm unable to say how accurate the world of Lovecraft is 
 portrayed. However, whatever Bethesda has done with it is absolutely fantastic. Although, I'm not 
 sure that the punishing difficulty and incidents of trail and error were apart of this world.
 
  
  Graphically considered outdated by many reviews, my impressions are more more along the lines of 
 "does the job". A creeping soundtrack throughout leads to the immersion of the fantastic game world. 
 
  
  Worth EVERY hour of game play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ziegd
Rating: 6.5
Date: Dec 9, 2007 9:57 am PT
Review:  Most gamers will either love it, or hate it.
  
  GOOD STUFF...
  1) REEELY creepy environment.
  2) The inhabitants of Innsmouth freaked me out.
  3) 'Insanity' 
 aspect is a cool (if sometimes, frustrating) innovation.
  4) 'Medical supplies' aspect provides a more realistic challenge to staying healthy.
  5) Scarcity 
 of ammo provides a delightful level of anxiety.
  
  BAD STUFF...
  1) Too many situations that require a trial-and-error approach to memorize some kind of timed-sequence 
 'paltform jumping' solution. Scenarios that could have been satisfyingly intense end up being frustratingly 
 difficult, requiring multiple re-starts which ultimately erodes the intensity. (NOTE... this is 
 probably my biggest gripe with the game.)
  2) During the first 1/3 of the game, I can't even pick up a stick to defend myself! (In real life, 
 I'd run away from the freaks in Innsmouth... I don't want to spend my game-time doing it as well.)
 
  3) What starts out feeling open-ended quickly becomes pretty linear and tightly scripted.
  
  BOTTOM LINE...
  I really wanted to like this game, and it started out being everything I 
 could hope for. Unfortunately, it didn't hold up. Die hard stealth-horror-survival fans will get 
 a kick out of it, and if that's YOU, then by all means, pick it up. But more main stream gamers 
 will probably find it so frustatingly difficult and slow-paced, they'd be better off looking elsewhere. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: x3lnaga86
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 1, 2007 8:19 pm PT
Review:  -If your looking for a true survival horror story then look no further friend. Call of Cthulhu 
 stands among the very few elite story-driven games that actually work. -Sure the graphics are not 
 so good. But the atmosphere sucks you right in and its also one of the few games that makes you 
 feel as if your actually there and you are the antagonist.
  
  -That's all I have to say about this truly UNIQUE game. -*To any of the developers or group who 
 are by any means associated with the creation of this game. Thank you very much for such an exciting 
 thriller and wish you the best of luck on your next project. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: majesticcryx
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 13, 2007 2:23 pm PT
Review:  When you're attempting to visualize the unimaginable, faithfully recreate early 20th century Massachusetts 
 the way a deranged cultist intended, and you're emulating the cerebral meanderings of reclusive 
 bizarro-world creator Howard Phillips Lovecraft, you're likely to fail. Ever since a young Dean 
 Stockwell starred in the slightly embarrassing The Dunwich Horror back in 1970, mediums outside 
 printed literature have struggled to bring the sheer scale of other worldly inter-dimensional delusions 
 without resorting to over-simplified clich&iquest; s. Hell, even our own Shadow of the Comet (the 
 last time Chaosium -- the purveyors of Lovecraft's role-playing game and the licenser for COC: DCOOE 
 -- let their well-guarded franchise into the hands of game developers) lacked a certain polish, 
 with its characters based on horror legends such as Vincent Price, and a less-palpable fear in 
 a main character with about five frames of animation.
  
  No, it's been left up to Alone in the Dark, Resident Evil, Silent Hill, and various under-the-radar 
 attempts (such as the classic PC offering Sanitarium) to fill the void. Then, after almost six 
 years, developer/publisher in-fighting, constant delays, and almost no proper marketing (all of 
 which ironically caused sanity-sapping that developer Headfirst hadn't imagined) , the game has 
 landed on software shelves with a soft, wet thud. And by Nyarlathotep, it's pant-crappingly good.
 
  
  Something Fishy Going on at Innsmouth
  
  This 15-hour unhinged exploration stars you as Jack Walters, a no-nonsense gumshoe who turns into 
 a full-of-nonsense babbling idiot after witnessing things that should not be named. The build-up 
 of tension sets the scene for the rest of the experience; a gripping fear interspersed with anomalous 
 sounds, whistling winds, and hard-to-place growling that really plays on your nerves, and sense 
 of isolation. Walters has been called to a gothic mansion off the Atlantic coast where he finds 
 cultists, alien technology, and well  a gruesome experiment too unpleasant to put into words. 
 Investigating the dilapidated dwelling further results in a spell in Arkham Sanitarium, and sets 
 the pacing of the story for the rest of the adventure. The merest glimpse of a tentacle-flapping 
 polyp results in severe mental trauma. At once, the novice player learns that foes are far more 
 powerful than in any first-person game previously, while students of Cthulhu should be standing 
 up and applauding how well the subject matter is handled. Serious Sam with Shoggoths this is not. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: darkSIDEechoes
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 9, 2007 4:33 pm PT
Review:  Being a big PC game fan, especially horror games, I found this game to be right up my alley. It's 
 a straight-forward first person horror action adventure shooter, basically 99% linear, except for 
 being able to take a different alley in the first few levels... The controls are simple, but they 
 still work well. The graphics aren't too bad, but the whole Cthulhu universe is on the gray side 
 of things, but that is what the creators deliberately tried to do. The plot isn't comparable to 
 Metal Gear Solid, or anything... but its at the very least, interesting. The first few levels, you 
 have to sneak around, talk to people, run away from the townspeople on a one-way track. After that, 
 you get some weapons and start fighting. I love iron sights in games, and this offers it as well 
 making most weapons deadly with a well-placed shot. The knife in this game is worth it alone, holding 
 down right click fires a nice pig-stick attack which kills unsuspecting enemies, not many first 
 person games offers it, except for 'Hidden: Source , atleast all I can think of...
  
  This game is getting harder and harder to find, so grab it when you see it. I bought mine from 
 Amazon. com for around 35 shipped, sealed though...
  
  There are a few bugs where it prevents you from moving on forward, for example: a moving cart not 
 initially moving, so you have no where to go, I think you have to backtrack and get it started 
 again or something. Unfortunately, this game keeps on crashing at random points.... I'm actually 
 near the end of the game and can't beat it. It crashes every time I open this door and a cutscene 
 comes, but it offers a unique player experience with the 'insanity' feature when you see something 
 gruesome, can actually cause you to shoot yourself if you get too freaked out! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jackyll87
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 29, 2007 9:19 am PT
Review:  A great game gone unnoticed, call of cthulhu is an extremely immersive experience. Though the graphics 
 are a tad outdated and the engines throws up some technical glitches at you now and then, the horrifying 
 story more than makes up for it. One of the first game to keep the HUD absent, a method that is 
 becoming increasingly common in most FPS now, it totally draws you in. The game plays as a RPG 
 cum FPS but it is the RPG part that makes up for the game's uncanny horror. One of the few games 
 in the horror genre that isnt a FPS i. e. doesnt rely on hordes of enemies coming at you like RE 
 or Doom, this game is a must have for all RPG and Horror fans. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: iron_priest
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 21, 2007 3:58 am PT
Review:  Call of Cthulhu, despite of the strange name, is a very good horror game from many points of view. 
 First one the graphics are good just a little problem with the human expresions but after all in 
 that village who was human? The sound is medium/good. The storyline captivates and you just want 
 to find more and more to see where does it end, very good and the characters are truly strange 
 (let's just say that a little exagerated) . The main character has a new abillity (that i personally 
 never saw in other game) when he is scared the image hazes and he also gets dizzy. Very cool and 
 annoying in the same time. If you enjoy sneaking and shooting try this game you won't regret. I'll 
 give it 8.5 for the dizzy stuff that makes an inovator out of this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mfp16
Rating: 9.2
Date: Aug 2, 2007 6:13 pm PT
Review:  All Lovecraft fans simply must get this game. It's a truly immersing and creepy game. The complete 
 absence of the HUD makes it all the more lifelike. Everything is top notch! It tells an engrossing 
 story from beginning to end and really creeps you out. It's definitely one of those games you want 
 to play late at night will all the lights and have those headphones pumped. Apparently there are 
 some bugs with the game freezing, but I did not encounter any. It ran solid on a completely average 
 PC without dipping framerates.
  
  My one complaint though is the difficulty, this is probably one of the hardest games I have ever 
 played. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Scullyy
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 21, 2008 9:51 am PT
Review:  A true first person horror game. A list of cons and pros below:
  
  Pros:
  - Love the creepy setting
  - Good voice actors
  - Awesome effects when you get hurt, scared 
 or go insane :D
  - Varied gameplay
  - You see everything through the eyes of the protagonist meaning you get really immersed in the 
 game
  - Great story
  - True to Lovecrafts.
  
  Cons:
  - I found it hard knowing what to do at times
  - The firing sequences aren't too impressive
 
  
  A scary game meant to be played alone in the dark :) Go get your hands on a copy! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: abridgers71
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jul 9, 2007 9:52 am PT
Review:  I'm a HUGE fan of Lovecraft's writings and the world he created - if you haven't read At the Mountains 
 of Madness let me tell you, this is the only story I've ever read that REALLY got inside my head 
 and freaked me out bad! Naturally, I was skeptical about a game based on Lovecraft that could preserve 
 his otherworldly horror b/c Lovecraft movies have often missed their marks and are mostly pretty 
 silly. I was pleasantly suprised when I started playing the game.
  It's got some great references and visuals for alot of Lovecraft's boogie men (Yithians, Dagon, 
 Cthulhu, Innsmouth inhabitants) and they did a good job of putting a nice visual to an otherworldly 
 horror story creature feast.
  One of the really fun aspects of the game is the sanity meter. This is a GREAT feature of the game 
 that I wish more horror games would use. The more dead bodies, bizzare creatures, etc... you see, 
 the more your character's head gets messed up and you start to see blurry, drop things, and generally 
 flip out. This adds a little more realism to the game b/c who wouldn't go badcrap crazy seeing 
 all this weirdo stuff?
  It's definitely not an easy game to play. Some of the puzzles and escape sequences are pretty hard 
 to get through in 1 peice. Nevertheless, it's still a fun and creepy game that Lovecraft fans will 
 enjoy. Glad to finally have it ! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Beechbone666
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jul 9, 2007 9:40 am PT
Review:  Lovecraft's fiction has been an inspiration for numerous video games like Necronomicon or perhaps 
 the best known Alone in the Dark series. But Headfirst Productions' game is the one that captures 
 the atmosphere of Cthulhu mythos in the best possible way.
  
  The game starts off with a raid on a house whose residents went very wrong so to speak. You take 
 control of a detective named Jack Walters. You go inside the house and this is the moment when 
 this whole grisly horror begins, and lasts to the very end of the game. After being released from 
 mental asylum of some sort you are sent to the infamous Innsmouth where things just get worse and 
 worse while the game pushes you into the depths of the darkest corners of the earth... and soul.
 
  
  This game is brilliant. You just plunge into this wicked, insane world and there is no chance in 
 hell for you to be saved by human means. It's a first-person game but there is no HUD of any kind 
 so you feel like you are there yourself. That's not all. Every harsh situation affects your sanity. 
 Your breath and heartbeat go faster and when things are getting really bad your vision blurs, you 
 speak to yourself and what's more, staying in extreme condition may even lead you to a suicide! 
 That's only one way of ending your miserable life. You can't take much damage which means that 
 a headshot kills you instantly and major wounds will eventually cause you to bleed to death if 
 not cured. Wounds over legs make you move slower or not at all and wounds over hands might stop 
 you from using your weapons. But not only mental condition of your character will be shattered 
 into pieces during this game. There are couple of really intense sequences that will scare the 
 s**t out of you like the pursuit at the beginning. Besides that there are plenty of unpleasant 
 moments only to mention the whole ship trip or Cthulhu chapel.
  
  While it's generally based on The Shadow Over Innsmouth there are connections to various Lovecraft's 
 short stories throughout.
  
  Graphics quality is maybe not as spectacular as some of 2006 FPP games but on the other hand art 
 design is simply superb which creates inimitable atmosphere. So is the sound, music and voice acting.
 
  
  Call of Cthulhu is a disturbing, unsettling and intimidating first-person adventure shooter which 
 cannot be missed by any Lovecraft or horror fan. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Vampire_Turtle
Rating: 7.7
Date: Jun 18, 2007 4:37 pm PT
Review:  When i started playing the game I was scared... and that is not common for me in video games. Finnaly 
 a truely scray game has come to give us nightmares for us gamers ^_^! However COC does not come 
 without flaws.
  
  The graphics in my opinion suit the game perfectly, as using dark textures and using a 1920's film 
 effect, it really sets you in to the scary atmosphere that COC has to offer. Voice acting is not 
 flawed in the slightest, it really makes you feel as though that person is actaully speaking and 
 not the actor him/herself.
  
  Gameplay is COCs main flaw, as the thing that scares you the most in the game is... no weapon. 
 As you are defenseless naturally you would begin to become scared if you heard strange noises or 
 mauled faces around you. But as soon as you pick up a firearm the game becomes a stupid shooter 
 and begins to loose its fear factor, bit by bit. Overall COC is a nice looking and great sounding 
 game. And remains a true thriller... to start with. If you didn't get to use a gun so many times 
 this game would have remained a pinnacle... of gaming fear. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Darkdesires
Rating: 8.2
Date: May 4, 2007 5:21 pm PT
Review:  Call of Cthulhu its a great game, graphics are dated but the mysterious story, heavy atmosphere, 
 intense chases, stealth elements and other nice aspects of the game makes you go through the dated 
 graphics.
  Sometimes in the game you are chased by people, this are in my opinion the most exciting moments 
 in the game... You can easily get seriously under pressure when people (if that guys can be called 
 people) start to chase you, you have to lock doors, push objects to the doors, go through roofs 
 and fire stairs, anyway that you can find to get the hell outta there its a breath you can take 
 because the chases can be really breathtaking.
  The atmosphere its heavy and you feel like in hostile territory, the great story helps a lot to 
 get you interested, stealth takes sometime of the game and works fine. The only weak point of CoC 
 its the dated graphics and some issues on the gameplay, but despite of that its a solid game and 
 a must play, but I don't recommend it to people who are more sensible to mistery, terror and aspects 
 like that because the game can get very intense. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Calist0
Rating: 9.1
Date: Apr 25, 2007 4:19 am PT
Review:  This is another masterpiece that raises the wall of defense of adventure games. Adventure games 
 can still be a good choice for any gamer on this planet. Adventure games are not dead!!!
  
  This game is considered a survival horror, in my point of view this is a psychological, mind twisting 
 and spine shivers type of game. Of course there are some horror sequences, but most about this 
 game is that he is making you feel like you are playing a horror game. It's dark atmosphere and 
 gloomy places delivers nothing but a fear of a danger that is close by.
  
  First of all it's spooky, the first time you encounter the villagers and see the way they look 
 you know what awaits you. The thing i liked the most in this game are two things: even you are 
 in the middle of danger, you do not have a gun on you, the first gun upon you is somewhere about 
 in the middle of the game, not that it helps you that much because you only have 3 or 4 bullets, 
 and another thing is that when you are hurt or badly wounded or you are walking on a plank at high 
 distances and underneath is nothing but thin air, the camera it starts spinning like you are dizzy 
 just like you are there experience the same action and you must not look down or you will lose 
 grip and fall. The same thing about when you are wounded: if you are bad the colors fade to gray 
 and black and white, you are dizzy and can not walk as fast as before, when you try to walk you 
 will here your bones cracking blood spilling and flesh dragging :) .
  
  The graphics are great, foggy atmosphere, shades in the distance, strange whispering. It has great 
 textures although the sky is not that well draw but will do. The sounds are amazing it gives you 
 the creeps with nice soundtracks.
  
  The game play is easy just like an shooter with WASD plus mouse controle which makes the game more 
 flexible.
  
  This game should be in the collection of any adventure gamer . I recommend it to everyone!!!
 
  
  Cheers 
::::::

::::::
UserName: akhorahill
Rating: 8.9
Date: Apr 18, 2007 9:10 am PT
Review:  Call of Cthulhu: Dark Corners of the Earth is a first person view adventure game based on the work 
 of H. P. Lovecraft. The game puts you in the role of Jack Walters, a private detective hired to 
 find out the whereabouts of Brian Burham, a clerk that apparently robbed the First National Grocery 
 Store at the town of Innsmouth and fled with the money. Your investigations lead you to study the 
 history of the city and to unveil a cult whose dark knowledge can send the strongest of minds to 
 an asylum.
  
  Jack starts his investigation right after his arrival at Innsmouth, a sinister and dark small town 
 whose inhabitants are not a bit pleased by the arrival of a stranger. The graphics do a great job 
 of portraying an eerie city, with dark alleys and strange looking people walking the streets. Everything 
 seems to be rotten and abandoned but at the same time it gives you the impression it has seem better 
 days.
  
  Talking to the people and exploring the settings at this time is rewarding since the voice acting 
 has been done to further increase the eeriness of the atmosphere. Hissing voices, whispers and 
 guttural shouts seem to be commonplace at Innsmouth.
  
  The first person view might indicate an action oriented game but that's not true for the three 
 quarters of the game, that involve a lot of exploration, stealth and interaction with NPC's and 
 the scenario. As a matter of fact, you won't find yourself a weapon until you've completed 25% 
 of the game. In case you're wondering about the accuracy of my percentages, the game provides you 
 with an accurate indicator of overall progress.
  
  The plot and the knowledge about the occult unveils bit by bit through interactions with NPC's 
 and reading. It's worth to read all the diaries to find more about the history of Innsmouth as 
 it is to solve in game puzzles.
  
  The game changes its pace a bit once you discover the secrets of the cult and decide to attack 
 it. There are plenty of occasions where you're forced to fight a group of cultists for survival. 
 Even though your ammo is limited, you'll find yourself a machine gun, a pistol, a revolver, a rifle 
 and a shotgun.
  
  What prevents you from mass murdering all the cult members you meet is the health system. There's 
 no clear indication of your current health but as you take damage, the color from the screen begins 
 to fade and Jack begins to move slower. On the next stage the brightness fades away and the black 
 screen indicates death. Damage is always assigned to a given body area: head, arms, legs or torso 
 and the kind of injury is determined by its cause. If you fall from a high place you'll end up 
 breaking a leg or an arm and claw attacks often produce cuts and gashes. Damage is healed with 
 the use of a med kit containing bandages, sewing kits and their like. Each kind of injury require 
 a specific treatment. Bandages can't be applied to severe cuts, which require sewing and a needle 
 is not effective on a broken leg. Its not uncommon to have plenty of bandages but no needles.
 
  
  Those injuries often have side effects. Gashes make you bleed and eventually die from the wound 
 and broken legs and arms reduce your speed and accuracy, respectively.
  
  Physical damage is not the only thing to fear in Call of Cthulhu. Meeting with ancient beings, 
 deformed humans and severely damaged or mutilated bodies damages your sanity and can drive you 
 mad. Damage to your mind is shown in screen-bending effects, hallucinations and hearing weird and 
 really creepy stuff in your head. Also, you can hear you heartbeat and breathing getting faster 
 and heavier as fear dominates your mind.
  
  Dark Corners of the Earth is a tough game. It has difficult puzzles that'll probably take up a 
 considerable amount of time and facing some monsters or groups of cultist will probably require 
 you to try a couple - or half a dozen - times before achieving success.
  
  There are diverse and interesting chapters involving fights with ancient horrors, plenty of stealth, 
 using the environment to your advantage and the ones I liked most were those you had to run like 
 a maniac to survive.
  
  It's a very creepy and unsettling game. There's plenty of gore and scares but there's also plenty 
 of subtle horror in your hallucinations, sanity losses and voices in your head. It's surely best 
 played in the dark - the very first hint of the game - alone and with a good sound device. It's 
 hard not to recommend it to anyone with a taste for survival horror. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: haydar21101990
Rating: 7.6
Date: Mar 24, 2007 12:36 am PT
Review:  Call of Cthulhu is an First person Shooter game that depend on investigation . . . solving the 
 puzzles . . . and have a little action , you take the control an detective to solve a strange case 
 . . . Gameplay
  
  In call of cthulhu it depend on solving pazzles which it is wonderful and need a hard thinking 
 in this game . . . also to escape from your enemies or using your weapons.
  
  Grpahcis averege graphics as a PC GAME . . .
  
  Good -The mysterious story its the best thing 
 in this game , it will kepp you on this game a little bit.
  
  Bad
  
  -Your enemies are bunch of fools.
  
  7.6 / 10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Caleb367
Rating: 4.2
Date: Feb 28, 2007 5:12 am PT
Review:  This thing starts simply great. Graphics may look outdated, but gets its job done wonderfully, 
 interesting use of lighting and colors make the environment look like an old photograph from a 
 1920's newspaper. Voice acting is excellent, especially the Innsmouth people really sound slightly 
 disturbing. Sanity system is something never seen before and gives it a lot of character (after 
 all, you're not playing your usual super-action hero... he's a man like every other and this time 
 you really feel it) . Intro level is simply amazing. Innsmouth comes directly from HP Lovecraft's 
 pen.
  
  ... and now things start to get ugly. What has been simply a dream come true for every Lovecraft 
 fan (as I am) changes all of a sudden in a sort of crappy Super Mario Bros with monsters. The infamous 
 escape scene (frustratingly hard to pull off and very badly timed... you're punished for missing 
 a split second, forcing you to memorize key and mouse movements like a Dance Dance Revolution on 
 drugs) is just the start, leading to an endless, frustrating, unavoidable and amazingly boring 
 platform jumping that effectively kills off the game. It's almost as if first and second part of 
 the game were planned by two completely different designers.
  
  Sad, sad, sad. DCotE came this close to being a true heir to the first Alone in the Dark and Shadow 
 of the Comet... but then tries a jiggly dance and falls flat on its face. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Draylorn
Rating: 9.3
Date: Feb 7, 2007 11:57 pm PT
Review:  To someone who hasn't picked up Call of Cthulhu, it may appear to be simply a sub-standard shooter 
 with dated graphics. What it is, however, is an immersive, well paced survival-action-horror romp 
 with plenty of intuitive new features, and a ton of memorable moments. What it offers is so groundbreaking 
 for the genre, that it's flaws and shortcomings can easily be ignored.
  
  The Cons:
  -Main character's attitude doesn't match his degrading mental state
  -Enemies repeat themselves 
 too often
  -Frustrating repetition caused by limited save system
  -Closing a door from the wrong angle can sometimes make you unintentionally go through it (bad 
 for stealth!)
  
  The Pros:
  -Excellent voice acting, music, and especially sound
  -Invisible interface (no HUD) is immersive, shows charcter's hands manipulating objects very often 
 (So often, in fact, that I would only complain that it doesn't happen when opening/closing doors) , 
 sanity effects work great (although the vertigo effect is too sensitive in my opinion) , aiming 
 done with gun sights instead of an aiming reticle!
  -Great pacing, with tension gradually building up throughout the game - you don't get any weapons 
 until you've played a few hours
  -Runs smoothly, with almost no noticeable errors or lag, even on a GeForce 6150 LE with graphics 
 settings all the way up (Mine is an onboard graphics card, not the greatest) and with only 512 
 MB RAM
  -Environments are top-notch. Graphics may be dated, but they are some of the cleanest and most 
 well done around.
  
  In my own personal opinion, having played and finished Silent Hill 2 as well as various other horror 
 games, this is the absolute scariest game I have ever played. I have jumped on numerous occasions 
 while playing, been afraid of the dark afterwards, and even had a nightmare or two. If you like 
 horror games, if you think you; ve played the scariest out there, you need to try this out. Bethesda 
 really outdid themselves. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dark_being
Rating: 8.3
Date: May 27, 2007 12:38 pm PT
Review:  Call of Cthulhu: Dark corners of the earth is a great game, really... unfortunately, only those 
 who are familiar with the Cthulhu mythos will truly enjoy this game, as you investigate, sneak, 
 shoot, stab, flee and eventual go clinically insane in the terrifying world of the Lovecraftian 
 mythos
  
  Although the game will take you to several locations, most of the game occurs in the small town 
 of innsmouth, which at first seem like a normal little town governed by a normal little fanatic 
 cult which, in turn, is ruled by a bunch of not-very-nice people.
  you play the rule of the former policeman now a P. I. - Jack Walters - who suffered from a mysterious 
 traumatic event in his recent past (more information pops during the game about the true nature 
 of said event) . a routine missing-person investigation leads Jack into a not-so-well lit corner 
 of the earth.
  
  As the game goes on, and you encounter more and more of the Cthulhu mythos, your character will 
 experience minor (and major) sanity losses that may not effect the game instantly, but the visual 
 effects caused by them are pretty remarkable - your vision will become blurry or distorted, aiming 
 your gun will become an even more difficult task, not to mention the heavy breathing and deafening 
 heartbeats.
  
  Speaking of sound, the character voicing is pretty decent, except for the main protagonist, Jack 
 Walters, which always sound so calm, even when a giant sea-god is attacking his mind.
  
  To all those who love horror games - this one is definitely scary... the first person view, combined, 
 with the visual effects mentioned before, with all kind of nasty creatures on top can easily give 
 you nightmares, and even more important, some unforgettable moments.
  
  If you are familiar with the Cthulhu mythos, the game will introduce you to a few well know characters 
 and deities in a fun and solid gameplay, cool (yet a bit out-dated) graphics and a lot of memorable 
 moments along the way. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: scvido
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jan 6, 2007 2:32 am PT
Review:  Well i just purchased Call Of Cthulhu for the PC and my reaction is a positive one.
  
  let's start with Graphics : The game can be set at any resolution, with Antialiasing (i recommend 
 4X AA) then enable in your 3dcard panel the Anisotropic Filtering to 4X or 8X because the game 
 defaults to Trilinear which looks bad. the game is very smooth however.
  
  The Graphics looks a bit outdated although some of the ingame characters, statues and object looks 
 pretty cool and detailed, but don't let this graphics change your mind, graphics aren't everything, 
 in fact the effects used in the game are excellent.
  
  Sound : The game's audio is outstanding, definetely worth playing with a good 5.1 speakerset and 
 is especially effective if you use Headphones (and lights off) :-) excellent voiceovers, great 
 music and sounds, love it.
  
  Story &amp; Special Effects : this is where the game shows it's strenght, the story is very engaging 
 and great if you watched or read any of HP Lovecraft books / Movies, you explore and talk to people, 
 move freely, sneak, shoot etc. this game rocks.
  
  the special effects in-game are another superb thing with voices of small children and demons all 
 around you and lots of camera play like Blur &amp; Shaky camera, grainy atmosphere, flashes.
  
  Conclusion : This game may have a bit of a dated graphics (not that bad at all) but the game 
 is engaging start to finish, i loved it completely.
  
  MUST BUY !! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 6ene5i50l
Rating: 8.8
Date: Dec 26, 2006 10:20 pm PT
Review:  as a follower of the great HP lovecraft, it was set in stone that i play this game.
  
  although the graphics are a little dated, the gameplay and ground breaking ideas in it make that 
 easily forgivable.
  
  the story was well executed and left me begging for more. the sanity engine made the fear creep 
 into your mind until you tasted your heart. this is more a psychological horror game than it is 
 a jump out of the closet, BOO game like most other horror games. the fact that you have to survive 
 solong with out a gun makes you paronoid while playing. the best ive played in years.
  
  the no HUD system was briliant, bc when youre startled and unload a clip into a guy untill you 
 hear that no ammo click right when another badie comes your way makes you go oh ****! this is more 
 survival that a shooter.
  
  the health check system could have been more interactive with out having to go into the inventory 
 menu. since jacks hands make many apperances having him bend over to rap a splint to his leg would 
 have been nice, and also show the bandage as he wraps his arm, and have the hands cover the screen 
 a minute as he bandaged his face.
  
  GET THIS AS IT IS A MILE STONE IN THE HORROR GENRE. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Marcinkonys
Rating: 7.3
Date: Nov 27, 2006 12:43 pm PT
Review:  Call of Cthulhu is a first person game, a mix of adventure, action and stealth. After passing Still 
 Life, a game where you play as a detective, I was eager to try out more games of the same type. 
 In CoC, youre a private detective trying to solve a case in the town of Innsmouth. A grocery shop 
 keeper has disappeared, and youre about to find out where. Pretty much like in all detective games, 
 youll have to search for evidence, and solve puzzles often. Some of them are really tough and 
 may take you a while, especially if youre not too good at these games. Innsmouth doesnt look 
 like the friendliest place  the people dont like newcomers, therefore questioning most of them 
 is pretty tough. Sometimes you even have to bring someone a specific item they request to open 
 their mouths. Fortunately, youll find allies if you scope the areas out, which is necessary.
 
  
  It was a great experience to me to search for clues, solve puzzles, and try to advance in this 
 game, until I have reached the fourth or so chapter, called Attack of the Fishmen. You were staying 
 at a hotel overnight, and you bolted the doors just to be safe. Later, you wake up hearing three 
 men trying to breach in. You must get to a nearby room and bolt the door before they get in, move 
 a shelf to get to the next door, and so on. The whole cat and mouse gameplay is awesome, until 
 youre in the city trying to avoid the bad guys. Like I said, Call of Cthulhu is a game mixed with 
 adventure, action and stealth. The adventure part is great, sure. But the two latter ones arent. 
 In fact, they make you even really frustrated at times, at least they made me.
  
  Let me start with the action sequences. You are unequipped with a weapon until chapter five or 
 so. But a gun isnt even necessary at the start of the game. Later, you get a shotgun and a pistol 
 (they arent your only weapons in the game, mind you)  right there a creepy adventure game turns 
 into a poor first person shooter. I tried to avoid making the game play that way, so I tried to 
 avoid the enemies. At least, most of them. Theres a sneak option in the game, but it doesnt 
 really help a lot  youre sneaky only where youre supposed to be  areas where youre NOT supposed 
 to be seen are pitch black most of the time, but if you try to use stealth elsewhere, you dont 
 even know whether youll be detected or not. Thats where my frustration started  I had no weapon, 
 and I was supposed to reach a building at the other side of a street.
  
  Using objects as cover was easier than searching for shadows for me, but I always got spotted by 
 a patrolling man. No matter how hard I tried, he always saw me when he turned around, which happened 
 often... The thing that makes you want to be sneaky even more is that you have no close combat 
 system. If youre face to face with an enemy, and youre unarmed, the only thing you can do is 
 flee. Even if you do get away, enemies often find you and finish you off. I have never punched 
 my PC table so many times playing a video game, heh. Theres no heads-up-display in this game, 
 hence theres no health and ammo status, etc.
  
  No HUD is maybe even better for this game, I dont know. You can always check your ammo and health 
 status by accessing the menu. Healing yourself isnt like in most video games - you wont restore 
 your health by picking up a medkit or something  first of all, youll have to find a safe place 
 not to get hurt  then by accessing the menu, youll get tp select the areas you want to heal. 
 Even if you dont access the menu to check the status, its quite easy to know your medical condition 
 by the way you feel  if your legs broken, you walk slower. If youve been diseased, your visions 
 drained, etc. This is an awesome addition, and makes the game really realistic. An another cool 
 one is your sanity control. If you spot a dead body, or something else really REALLY disturbing, 
 your heart rate starts getting higher, you get more inaccurate when firing a weapon, etc. Always 
 control your sanity, because later, you can turn colour-blind, and your vision could be very messy. 
 The camera is top notch, as well  if youre limping, it sort of bounces, just like your body would 
 while walking.
  
  The sound in CoC is really great. While exploring the areas around, a spooky theme greets your 
 ears - frankly, the variety of tracks isn't all that great, there could be a wider range of music 
 around. The voice acting's well done, too - it was funny to hear so many tongue-tied people talk 
 in the city of Innsmouth, though. Call of Cthulhu is a singleplayer-only game, but I can't even 
 imagine how a multiplayer for such a game would look, anyway. While Call of Cthulhu does have a 
 good atmosphere and an awesome story full of cool twists, you may easily get frustrated by the 
 way stealth and combat systems work  it may take you a lot of patience to get out of certain situations, 
 and it gets even harder knowing you cant save everywhere you want. Nevertheless, CoC is a decent 
 game, which every adventure gamer should give a try. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mickey_poland
Rating: 5.7
Date: Oct 17, 2006 1:27 am PT
Review:  This game was in development for a very long time and as such you would expect it to be highly 
 polishing considering the competition it is up against with the likes of HL2, Far Cry or FEAR. 
 Fundamentally people play games to be immersed, to experience and to relax but CoC shoots itself 
 in the foot time and time again. Firstly, the fact that you cannot save where ever you want no 
 matter what your are doing condemns you to repeat parts of the game, this coupled with the fact 
 that the game is linear and incredibly hard means that it is practically impossible to complete 
 some of the very difficult scripted 'action sequences' riddled throughout the game  its worth 
 mentioning the infamous 'attack of the fishermen' section of the game whereby you attempt, unarmed 
 to escape from a crowd of lunatic villagers hell bent on killing you. The sequence involved you 
 running through various rooms at an Inn, locking doors behind you, jumping through windows in a 
 very patterned time capped boring manner. This is probably one of the most frustrating game experiences 
 I have had in years and the game commits suicide for even advanced gamers quite early on. This 
 type of game play has been extinct ever since the likes Deus Ex set new bench marks in giving more 
 power to the individual player in allowing them to figure out their own way to deal with situations. 
 However the game's atmosphere is spot on. It is a living breathing Lovecraft novel. The sounds 
 are excellent and the people in the game are creepy. I enjoyed walking around Innsmouth and being 
 insulted by the police chief in a very threatening way. So the game is a mixed bag of nuts. Whether 
 or not you will stick with it is 50/50. Be under no illusion; the scripted action sequences would 
 try the patience of a saint and if I ever meet one of the developers I will shake their hand and 
 will then punch them in the face and when they fall down I will kick them in the head only to ask 
 to shake their hand again. Pros:
  Truly atmospheric  you feel like you are in the 1920s
  Excellent use of sound  particularity good with headphones
  Solid, enjoyable storyline
  Brings 
 Lovecraft to life
  
  Cons:
  Visually it looks like it should have been released in 2001
  No Physics or fancy lighting (practically 
 standard these days)
  As linear as it could possibly be (like reading a book)
  Terrible save system
  Ridiculously hard at time  most people will never finish the game, me 
 included
  frustrating and can induce raw anger! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gamer541
Rating: 8.4
Date: Nov 23, 2006 1:10 am PT
Review:  I'v played F. E. A. R and thief and this game is way more thrilling and exciting then both of those 
 games combined. Anyone who likes a good horror survival game should get this game. This is coming 
 from a guy who absolutely loved king kong and would gave it a 9/10 if you guys liked king kong 
 you must buy this game! GET IT FOR THE ATMOSPHERE CREEPY MINIONS AND REALISTIC HUD AND FEATURES! 
 This is a great gift for Halloween! Playing as Jack roaming around in a spooky town called innsmouth 
 closed off by outsiders and for good reason. You start off knowing very little about what Cthulhu 
 is but as the story unravels at the end you'll wish you never knew about what waits in the deep. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sabazios
Rating: 8.7
Date: Oct 7, 2006 9:04 am PT
Review:  It took Call of Cthulhu: Dark Corners of the Earth (DCoTE) eons to reach us. To the avid crowd 
 of Lovecraft readers that double as gamers, the title long remained an elusive glimmer in the distance, 
 that pulled back everytime it seemed to get in reach; but then the mighty Bethesda decreed that 
 the stars were right, and invoked the completed game on the Xbox. Though it met with critical acclaim 
 on that platform, it took a few more months (a mere blink in the weird cycles of the Universe) 
 for it to attain its true home  the Personal Computer.
  Better resolution, and the well-suited keyboard/mouse control scheme, aren't the only reasons why 
 DCoTE is at home on the PC: this is a throwback to the glorious PC horror games of old, Alone in 
 the Dark springing first to mind.
  The story is the star of the show here. It never strays far away from the master's work. An early 
 scene of the game is the exact reenactment of one of the most exciting passages from that very 
 exciting story, The Shadow over Innsmouth. Many other Lovecraft pieces are touched upon by the 
 game's plot, the cited story laying the groundwork for the entire game.
  You'll direct Jack Walters, a P. I. straight from classic noir movies, from a great, gradual build-up 
 into abysses of horror far beyond anything those big-town P. I.'s ever encountered. The sets vary 
 wildly, from the city of Innsmouth itself, recreated with an insane amount of fidelity, to a mysterious 
 refinery, a ship lost in a supernatural storm, and other parts of the god-forsaken town no human 
 ever treaded. The enemies you'll face comprise a wide range of Lovecraft's most horrific creations, 
 which is where, in hindsight, a little disbelief settles in: how the hell did I survive a one-on-one 
 encounter with a Deep One, let alone their genitor of cosmic proportions? Of course you won't have 
 time to wonder about those things in the thick of the action.
  The game is played in first-person perspective, and you do get to wield a gun for a large part 
 of the game, but do not mistake DCoTE for a traditional FPS. Arguably the best part of the game 
 are those when you are either unarmed, or equipped with firearms that are totally inadequate to 
 dealing with the threat you face. You will often feel unprotected and fragile in a hostile world, 
 which is exactly how a true Lovecraftian hero should feel. This a grown-up, well-read survival 
 horror.
  There's no denying the graphics look dated. This, however, lends even more charm to a game blessed 
 with wonderful art direction. The sound design is also a real feat, from the panting of your own 
 character to the otherwordly bellowing of your foes. The whole experience blends into a polished, 
 immersive whole, that the few odd bugs never manage to shatter.
  
  Any gamer remotely interested in Lovecraft must check this game out. It perfectly translates the 
 panick and awe of the master's works into a modern video game, and a sense of comfort mixes with 
 the suspense and terror as you remember fondly the games and stories that drew you into this genre. 
 For the profane, either to the survival-horror genre or to Lovecraft, here's a fine starting point 
 indeed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sarnaath
Rating: 4.5
Date: Sep 23, 2006 4:40 pm PT
Review:  Clumsy action paired with fairly difficult puzzle solving. Thank goodness for online walkthroughs. 
 More than once I was clueless what to do next. The end gets absurdly difficult. I'm pretty close 
 to finishing, but there's a section where you have to run through falling rubble and there is literally 
 no room for error. I assume it's possible to make it, but after 7 attempts I'm too pissed to try 
 anymore. That's too bad, I'd like to see how it all ends.
  
  The game crashes frequently, and checkpoint saves are often spaced before lengthy cutscenes, which 
 in some cases translates to much repetition. I've read a lot of Lovecraft so I recognize a lot 
 of his fiction is this game. But ultimately it's an exercise in frustration. (If only the character 
 could run..) It started off well. There are some fantastically scary chase scenes in the beginning, 
 but the game eventually resorts to tedious split second timing to evoke terror - which fails miserably.
 
  
  There's a novel 'sanity' element to the main character. He freaks out when exposed to scenes of 
 horror. Which is dumb because I bought the game to see scenes of horror. He tends to freak out 
 when you are in tricky situations. And by the end you hate him, wishing the developers had chosen 
 to go with a character who would keep his wits about him when things get rough. That's not a good 
 move in a game - you shouldn't be hating the hero.
  
  If you must buy this game, get the console version. It's probably more stable than the PC version. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Vonhawkmoon
Rating: 2.9
Date: Sep 22, 2006 6:12 pm PT
Review:  Being a big HP Lovecraft fan I really wanted to like this game. Story wise it seems pretty interesting 
 and the graphics and sound are pretty good but....
  I CAN'T STAND NOT BEING ABLE TO SAVE WHEN I WANT TO !!! Call me a cry baby I don't care. THe action 
 sequences in this game are quite difficult, every bit as challenging as anything you will find 
 in Doom or Half-Life series of games. I have yet to see a review of either game where someone says, 
 being able to save whenever you want makes these games too easy I demand all my games to have anal 
 Lara Croft type save points only ! If you feel this way fine. Enjoy doing the same thing over and 
 over again. As for me, I play games to relax, not to get all stressed out. If you don't have a 
 job and smoke pot all day, you probably need the stress a game like this adds to your life. If 
 you have a responsible stress filled job like me, well it's just not worth it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shailesh_das
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 18, 2006 5:12 am PT
Review:  Another fine game based on Novels of HP Lovercraft. If his all of his novels were turned to 3D 
 games like this all the other games like Silent hill will be at last seat. The game's surrounding 
 is really scary. The graphics are also just fine for a horror game. When you stare at dead bodies 
 it gives a nice blur effect. The game provides help and tips at loading time. There are minor mistakes 
 which have not been corrected like when you read the collected articles there are some spelling 
 mistakes. If you are a fan of horror/adventure games like silent hill series and resident evil 
 series this game will give you different taste and feel. The game gives chills by its surroundings 
 and some nice graphics and some effects.
  
  
  
  A must play game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kenjik1999
Rating: 3
Date: Sep 10, 2006 3:02 pm PT
Review:  (minor spoiler included)
  
  While it seems interesting enough, I cant recommend this game to anyone. I have only played this 
 game for 2 hours and already regret picking it up.
  
  The first part of the game was interesting and the "Escape from Innsmoth" part makes this game 
 not worth your time.
  
  The scenario "Attack of the Fishmen" ended the game for me. You have to make your way out of a 
 series of hotel rooms or be killed by a mob of villagers. All right, this is just a "figure out 
 the pattern" section (this type of game play I normally despise and this game is a good example 
 of why I hate it.)
  
  Your character is in a hotel room asleep and must run through a series of rooms, bolting them from 
 behind or moving objects in from of the doors. Frustrated at performing these feats much too slowly, 
 allowing the fishmen to break down the door and kill my character. I found an online FAQ. Now even 
 knowing what I was supposed to do, I still cannot perform the feats quickly enough to prevent yet 
 another death and long reloading cinematic sequence in the game. Now, trying to figure out the 
 pattern and performing it quickly enough to not get killed and restart the game is utter nonsense. 
 This is a waste of my time and not enjoyable in a game. The waste of money also bothers me. Unlike 
 most Americans, I am a person who knows the value of money and appreciate what I have and what 
 it takes to earn money. Wasting my entertain money on a game of this nature greatly upsets me.
 
  
  Fortunately, Head First Productions is now out of business. That should be good news to any gamer, 
 since they cannot produce any more drivel like "Call of Cthulhu: Dark Corners of the Earth" Perhaps 
 those game developers will find their true calling as stock boys at a WalMart. They certainly should 
 not be producing games. Another problem I had with the game is the bad coding related to screen 
 resolution and anti aliasing. Developers always blame the hardware and drivers for problems with 
 this nature but in reality it almost always bad code. The problem I am referring to is: I upped 
 the screen resolution and aliasing and had problems with the keyboard (stuck key error) Which is 
 interesting since I am playing Oblivion (and indeed all my games) with all video options set to 
 maximum and have no problems.
  
  The problem can, however, be resolved with turning down the resolution and turning off aliasing. 
 To sum it up, I cannot PROPERLY give a good commet of the game with only having played it for two 
 hours BUT giving up after only two hours should say it all:
  
  Save your money and avoid this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Thinner90
Rating: 9.1
Date: Sep 9, 2006 10:01 am PT
Review:  Ambience. My god ambience. I love it in a game.
  Fear, suspense... these are good too. Throw in some tasty graphics, sound, and some nifty little 
 action sequences, as well as a awesome storyline and you have Call of Cthulu. Few games have really 
 given me good moments of paranoia about whats going on and what state my character is in... this 
 game is one of em. Most of the scare moments are standard, but the sanity system / lack of a true 
 HUD really add to the suspense factor (ntm the sexy Silent Hill like screen grain) .
  
  Anywho, I could go on with the good, but I will jump right to the "frustration" involved.
  1. 
 The save system is a tad annoying... retrying sequences over and over can get.... blah...
  2. Difficulty is a tad unforgiving, and can even be a royal pain at easier levels I found myself 
 repeating an early sequence multiple times on the standard difficulty
  3. It as many have stated, linear at times in how it sends you about your task but then again... how 
 open ended can a game in this style be?
  
  And there it is... if ya like survival horror hybrids heavy on suspense, and can get past the little 
 imperfections, Call of Cthulu will show you a good time.
  
  IA! IA! CTHULHU FHTAGN! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: yalejock
Rating: 1.9
Date: Sep 9, 2006 12:29 am PT
Review:  If you are easily pissed off - do not buy this game. If you save a lot - you should not get this 
 game. If you like intuitive games - do not buy this game. If you like games with realistic physics 
 - do not buy this game. If you love replaying the same scene 100 times - get this game. If you 
 love 100% linearity in your games - buy this one. If you love 10hours worth of cutscenes - get 
 this game. You can see I love this one eh? Off to play HL2 DM. Oh yes and this has to have 100 
 words so: one two three four five six seven eight nine ten eleven twelve thirteen fourteen fifteen 
 sixteen seventeen eighteen nineteen twenty... Even this is more fun than Cthulhu. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kelebornn
Rating: 9.6
Date: Sep 3, 2006 11:00 am PT
Review:  When I first encounter Call of Cthulhu I didn't know anything about the Cthuhu Mythos, so I didn't 
 have any expectations, the only thing I knew was that the game was a horror game. I gotta tell 
 you what an horror!! I never been this interested in my life of any game, and this game keep me 
 playing for almost a week 24/7. The game is largely based in the Shadow over Innsmouth from the 
 master LOVECRAFT, I really recommend playing and then reading the books or vice versa. I assure 
 you it won't disappoint you. Well that the graphics aren't the newest around, yea but that doesn't 
 take much from the game, that you probably gonna be repeating a jump or a escape several times, 
 yea but nobody told you that this was going to be easy.
  I must say that after this game I'm a fan from Lovecraft books, go play the game, go read the books, 
 now!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Alpha_01
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 2, 2006 5:25 pm PT
Review:  Call of Cthulhu: Dark Corners of the Earth is the most scariest game of all... You can see by it's 
 warning at the intros.
  It may not contain that much darkness like in Doom 3, but it's sure as hell more scarier than Doom 
 3...
  
  Call of Cthulhu's effect are the best part of it, notice the Sanity effects which make the player 
 see double and become more and more blurry, that's the part i love the most, Headfirst productions 
 spent more than 5 years creating this game and it's reward being better graphics and a non-buggy 
 game...
  
  The game focuses on FPS and the camera rarely gets out of the character's view, in some cut scenes 
 you can still see through his eyes, and you can see his hands grabbing an object or using it or 
 just holding his hands in front of the camera to add some realism...
  
  Even if it's a First Person game, it does not mean that you can walk around like Rambo shooting 
 whatever moves, in this game half of the story will only contain adventure, puzzle, stealth and 
 being pursued by the enemies (until you have a weapon for the first time)
  
  Call of Cthulhu's sound are awesome, even when starting to see visions, you can hear the nice hard 
 beat. The voice acting is also cool.
  
  Overall, this game is 100% fun and scary, suitable for persons with real guts to play it. Its insanity 
 may also affect the players... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Humorguy_basic
Rating: 9.3
Date: Aug 23, 2006 4:45 pm PT
Review:  If you read the Gamespot review and the User Reviews here you will see scores given based on the 
 cutscenes spoiling the immersion by going to letterbox and a grainy look. This takes you out of 
 the game and breaks the immersion.
  
  There is a patch at the website below that among other things takes away the letterbox and grainy 
 look, leaving you immersed in the game. What would the above scores have been if they had played 
 the game with this patch applied? An extra 5%? an extra 10%?
  
  So I am going to score it with this patch applied, which not gives you the cutscene changes, but 
 also gives you a hand that you see open the door, pick up items etc which Bethesda blocked as they 
 didn't like it. Again, I think it aids with immersion, which is what this game is all about!
  
  http://callofcthulhu. com/forums/index. php? showtopic=2992
  
  So download this patch and 
 get even more immersed in this great horror game that everyone here at Gamespot seems to love - 
 like me! :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: black_irenicus
Rating: 7.3
Date: Aug 17, 2006 4:51 pm PT
Review:  
  This game sticks as close to the sourse material as you can get in a game and being a Cthulhu mythos 
 fan myself I found the game to have awsome depth and originality. The games downfalls are the constant 
 gloomy settings and I found the controls to be a little arkward at times and jumpy. 
  
  These downfalls however are made up for in the realistic nature or the game, if you want to shoot 
 somthing you have to look down the barrel of your gun and take carefull aim (A head shot should 
 take down anything nasty beasty) This makes combat tough although the AI is pretty bad and it seems 
 no matter what gun I have the best option is to run into your attacker screaming (Usually at the 
 PC) and blasting away then taking cover to reload. As with all horror games this is best played 
 with the lights out at night and alone, especially when your injured and the creepy effects start 
 to occour like lack of colour or the walls moving all around you and your out of First Aid equipment. 
 The game may be hard as nails but its all a thrill ride from start to finish ! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gentazo
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 4, 2006 2:45 am PT
Review:  Call of Cthulhu - Dark Corners of the Earth is a first-person horror game that combines intense 
 action and adventure elements. You will draw upon your skills in exploration, investigation, and 
 combat while faced with the seemingly impossible task of battling evil incarnate.
  
  Other than fighting, you have the ability to interact freely with characters and the gaming environment. 
 To increase the sense of immersion, there is no interface or 'HUD' on screen at any time during 
 normal gameplay. Instead, more intuitive methods are available for you to assess your condition, 
 ammunition levels, and other relevant information. The combat within the game is extremely realistic, 
 with a detailed damage and healing system that breaks down the healing process into conditions 
 and treatments - rather than having the typical FPS 'health packs' lying around everywhere.
  
  The game also allows you to stamp your own style onto the proceedings via an advanced AI system 
 that can react to your method of play. Cthulhu enemies can roam freely around the environment - 
 opening doors and tracking you down single-handedly or in groups. To stay alive you won't just 
 be able to outshoot them, you'll need to outthink them as well.
  
  You will have to keep your mental health in check as you are exposed to the increasingly shocking 
 images of the Cthulhu Mythos. You will need to combat enemies using the environment, powerful and 
 evil artifacts, Alien technology, or by fighting with weapons that are completely authentic for 
 the period.
  
  Set during the 1920s, Call of Cthulhu is based on the Cthulhu Mythos of HP Lovecraft, an American 
 writer of fantasy and horror. Lovecraft's stories tell of unthinkable evil, psychic possession, 
 and mythical worlds and his work has profoundly influenced numerous fantasy and science fiction 
 writers, including Stephen King and Anne Rice. The technology powering Call of Cthulhu has provided 
 Headfirst with the means to present an incredibly detailed and accurate depiction of the sights 
 and sounds of this unique 1920's New England setting. A diverse range of cutting edge special effects 
 is utilized to ensure both unprecedented levels of realism and an exact portrayal of your mental 
 degradation.
  
  Diverse array of levels from quaint towns to alien locations, including Deep One City 
  
  Dynamic 
 Sanity system resulting in hallucinations, panic attacks, vertigo, paranoia, and more! 
  
  Incredibly detailed real-time graphics with atmospheric lighting and dynamic shadows 
  
  Intelligent 
 gameplay involving puzzle solving as well as combat and exploration 
  
  1920s weaponry and vehicles as well as evil artifacts and alien technology 
  
  Lovecraft's 
 famous monsters and locations 
::::::

::::::
UserName: EntwineX
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 27, 2006 11:27 am PT
Review:  Call of Cthulhu is based on the novel of H. P Lovecraft, some may know other games based on Lovecraft's 
 novels also, like the Alone In The Dark series. The game takes place in a creepy and mysterious 
 village of Innsmouth, where the athmosphere is so dense you could cut it with a knife.
  
  The game is played from first person perspective, and there is no HUD or anything the player could 
 tell how much energy or bullets he has left. Instead the player sees the the effects directly on 
 the screen, when you're panicing your vision gets blurry and when you're hurt you see blood on 
 the screen ect. The effects are are done brilliantly and they add greatly to the game's athmosphere.
 
  
  The game isn't your standars shooter, in fact you spend a big part of the game playing without 
 weaponry of any kind. This leads to the most intense chase sequenses I've ever seen in ANY game, 
 or a movie. The beginning of the game is pretty much your basic adventure game stuff, looking for 
 clues and solving puzzles, AND staying alive. Once you get guns it turns into a basic shooter.
 
  
  What makes this game so special is that the mental state of the character also affects the game, 
 he's not an invurnerable superhero, but looking down from a high building makes him dizzy and finding 
 a corpse messess up the vision so that you need to cool down in a safe place to get everything 
 working normally again. Sounds annoying? Well, it's not because it's done so well.
  
  The graphics are IMO a strong point of the game, they might look a bit dated compared to the newest 
 shooters, but the graphics have this general "soft" feel to them that makes everything look very 
 nice. All the great effects mentioned earlier put "bullet-time" ect. in shame. Sounds are good, 
 the voice acting is very pleasent and the creepy noices coming from the distance keep the player 
 on his toes.
  
  The gameplay is the weakpoint, the shooting is done well, firing from hip is inaccurate, but bringing 
 up the sights with r. mouse button allows deadly headshots ect. But some of the weapons are a bit 
 underpowered, tommy-gun with it's recoil and the big flame coming from the pipe make shooting with 
 it difficult, especially since it's not all that powerfull. Some of the weapons are done better 
 than others, and even tho you can hit opponents in different body parts, the combat has a slightly 
 clunky feel to it. 
  
  The difficulty level is what somewhat ruins this game, at times it's ridiculously easy, then suddenly 
 you find yourself wishing Bethesda had implemented a quicksave in the game. Especially some parts 
 WILL make you frustrated, running from enemies when you have no weapons is fun for a while, but 
 since sneaking isn't done that well, you will get caught, tho this does add a feeling of vengeange 
 once you get your hands into guns. There are also some other frustrating moments reserved for the 
 player, and unfortunately for some those might be enough to make you not wanting to come back to 
 this game. You can only save at spots marked with a certain symbol, this makes the game scarier, 
 but also a much more difficult. Tho the stupid AI does even the score a bit. IMO The game would 
 had been better off with less action and sneaking, and more adventure and puzzle solving 
  
  Call of Cthulhu has its problems, but it also includes some of the best gaming moments in years. 
 The game isn't "Resident Evil - scary", but more like creates this uncomfortable feeling .. in a 
 good way. I definately recommend this game to horror fans, and with horror I don't mean games like 
 Doom 3.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: PaRRa_DoXX
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jul 15, 2006 11:41 pm PT
Review:  I'm just about 1/3 through the game... in the catacombs below the church. I'm liking this game 
 more and more. Substance and overall presentation more than make up for the outdated graphics. 
 It is truly scary, eerie - use whatever "fear" adjective you like! As I keep playing, I can't help 
 but think just what this game would have looked like using, say; the Half-Life 2 engine!? I may 
 be jumping the gun, so to speak, because I've yet to finish the game but from what I've witnessed 
 so far I sincerely hope Bethesda (spelling??) has a sequel or two in mind! (HINT: use a better 
 graphics engine like HL2 and combine it with the rest of HP's Cthulhu mythos and you'll have me 
 as well as other (i'm sure) wanting more!
  
  I'm giving CoC a 8.5 for the time being. I'll edit as necessary when I'm finished getting the **** 
 scared out of me! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: axebitten
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 7, 2006 9:57 am PT
Review:  I have been waiting for a FPS original enough to be worth the time playing it. I must say this 
 baby made many hours fly like snappy.
  It has its share of CSI, Dick Tracy and a good solid story. The voice acts are truly remarkable 
 and the graphics are great to watch. The atmosphere is just horrible (in a good way) . It almost 
 feels like watching a movie. I don't think "visuals look fairly dated at times" at all. I think 
 they are good enough, enables less powerful machines to play it better.
  It takes from me a solid 8,5. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Polarballs
Rating: 5
Date: Jul 4, 2006 12:48 pm PT
Review:  I am curious as to how many of the player reviews were written at the end of the game and how many 
 were written after just a few hours of play. If I had scored this game after a few hours I would 
 have given it a 8 or 9.
  Lets begin with what works: From the start DCOTC does a great job of sucking you in to the world 
 of Lovecraft in all its horrific glory. From the grainy-film stock visuals to the creepy soundtrack 
 of unearthly mutterings and your own panic-stricken ramblings you truly feel a step away from madness 
 and death. 
  That's a good place to switch to the bad because after the first level you are constantly a step 
 away from madness and death. The sanity effect of having Jack's vision and hearing affected by 
 disturbing images is a good concept. Unfortunately it is overdone to the point of causing little 
 more than boredom, irritation and nausea. It takes very little to trigger swimming vision coupled 
 with a slower movement rate. At this point you can try to continue or sit and wait for it to clear, 
 which can take some time. 
  While the console-port limited save system and sanity effects can be frustrating they would factor 
 as minor nuisances if they weren't coupled with a crippling level of difficulty. On second thought, 
 the game isn't so much difficult as it is a lesson in rote memorization. Not since the old Dragon's 
 Lair arcade game have I seen a game with every option but 1 leading to death and you just find 
 your way through by trial and error. At least in Dragon's Lair the choices were well laid out and 
 you only had 3. In DCOTC you will frequently find yourself hunting for where to go next, what inventory 
 item is required to continue, or which doors to close and bolt behind you and when to just keep 
 running from whatever is chasing you. If it weren't for some brave masochists and their online 
 game guide I would have wiped this game off my Hard Drive long before I finished it. This is what 
 really ruined the game for me because the path forward is not always clear, and you end up dying 
 so often that you become desensitized to the horror. When you remove the creepy vibe from this 
 game you have nothing left worth playing it for. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CR0SS
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jun 30, 2006 11:21 pm PT
Review:  Call of Cthulhu is not one the best first person shooters of all time, it's not one of the best 
 stealth games of all time, it's not the best survival horror game of all time, It's not one of 
 the best adventure I'm bored as hell looking for the answer to this befuddling ass puzzle game. 
 But it may well be the best integration of all four aspects, and perhaps one of the most visceral 
 horror experiences in gaming. Other video game characters may be able to run faster and kill more 
 fiends, but theres something to be said for a game maker making their protagonist as vulnerable 
 as Jack Walters. The way the game makers alter his perception of his surroundings when he is frightened 
 or shocked, he has vertigo for Christs sakes so the screen becomes blurry and it becomes harder 
 to differentiate lengths and distances, navigating ledges or scaffolds, a seemingly easy task is 
 made challenging by this dizzying effect.
  And who could blame Jack, he runs into the most horrifying villains in gaming, the dreaded elder 
 gods. Though the towns people of Innsmouth are creepy as hell, and youll spend most of your time 
 running from and or eluding them. But when you finally get a gun the game starts to flesh out, 
 great chase scenes, great story, decent game play. Now the graphics while great in places are admittedly 
 dated, enemies dont look particularly great and the cut scenes have this intentional grey effect 
 that really dampens the effect. This game is also very heavy on the immersion factor, there is 
 no onscreen health or ammo count so you have to gauge your health by the splashes of blood on the 
 screen and the loss of color due to blood loss, you end up gauging your weapons by memory. I really 
 cant stress enough how awesome the insanity effects are, your heart beat start pounding like a 
 drum, you start to hear voices, you see things, your vision blurs or swims it can make a harrowing 
 situation flat out panic inducing. Environments can stray from really good to only okay, but are 
 usually okay, its a real shame that this game couldnt work in some kind of lighting system rather 
 than just asking you turn up the brightness , a mediocre flash light would be appreciated.
  Sound can be great, and could have been spectacular. Ambient and direct sound effects are excellent, 
 they immerse you in the environment, Now the villains voices are shaggy and almost impossible to 
 understand, Jack and the other human characters are well done, although the sound work would have 
 been great if only Jacks voice reflected his mental status, his breath and heartbeat do but nonetheless 
 his voice remains steady and brave, even though hes really very close to taking his own life with 
 the weapon in his hands, a shocking experience.
  After all of this it turns out to be one of the most unique and disturbing experiences in gaming 
 that keeps you thinking, running, shooting and screaming all the way through out its satisfyingly 
 long campaign. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Re_Das_7
Rating: 7.9
Date: Jun 28, 2006 4:42 pm PT
Review:  this game has a unique style and a unique game play soo real, from its reality u hate it
  adv
  1- real very real
  2- psychopathic game i liked the insanity parts and the sanitarium 
 flash backs
  3- great game mode like sneaking and avoiding the crazy citizens
  4- good but not hard clues and puzzles
  5- great story i think it is very exciting
  6- cool 
 weapons
  
  dis
  1- soo real, from its reality i hated it
  2- no cursor for weapons i must aim by luck
  3- stupid AI when i show up to a citizen and quickly 
 I go down to sewers the citizen go away as is nothing happened
  4- Sometimes citizen can take more than five bullets in the chest and never die also when iam using 
 the machine gun i though it is more like baby gun than adult gun . i have emptied a magazine clip 
 to kill two guards
  5- The ship mission made me sick ( very difficult )
  
  i have deleted the game after completing 75% of it because it is too boring and i have lost the 
 save game :- ( 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ftjx
Rating: 7.3
Date: Jun 15, 2006 7:58 am PT
Review:  I beieve this game was created with the help of H. P. Lovecraft himself, communicating with the 
 developers through a medium. There is absolutely no chance he's merely an inspiration. The enviroments, 
 characters, weapons, enemies, voices, music, story are absolutely spot on. The game mechanics however 
 are beyond human comprehension. First of all there is the puzzle solving which are often illogical. 
 Then there's all the times where you actually do what you're supposed to do but nothing happens 
 cause you're angle is a little off. This also comes into play when you have to make absolutely 
 live or die jumps. Overall too muchtrial and error. But if you are a fan of H. P. Lovecraft you 
 have to play this game. It's well worth the frustration. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: luna7fox
Rating: 6.8
Date: Jun 7, 2006 4:09 am PT
Review:  *CONTAINS SPOILERS* 
  
  Firstly let me say I really did enjoy this game. The puzzles were generally fairly simple, but 
 not too simple that you'll scoff at them, sometimes they'll leave you a little, well, puzzled (especially 
 the safe in the church basement!) . I thought the criticism about the graphics was a little harsh, 
 I rather liked the settings with grey, drab colourings and grainy textures, I felt it fitted the 
 overall menace of the game very well. I particularly loved finally getting the gun and being able 
 to lay waste to those Innsmouth bastards. HAHA, I got a bit trigger happy. The interface is also 
 great. It's completely clear! What an accomplishment. I love that you don't get a crosshair, making 
 the conflict feel very realistic.
  
  But, BUT! A few things really bothered me about this game. One - the sound. The sounds are annoying, 
 the Innsmouth folk have the most irritating accent that is very inconsistent, basically they sound 
 completely retarded it's quite comedic, but it feels like it's trying to be creepy. Result, groan! 
 Some key story elements are spoken by characters who are really difficult to understand (i. e. the 
 drunk!) . Also, the range of different dialogue is lacking. "Spread out!" "Search the area!" are 
 about all they'll say if they are, hmm, searching for you. Unfortunately, it's not so much what 
 they say, but how much they say it. If you're hiding you'll hear those two utterances about every 
 5 or so seconds. I had to turn the sound off during certain passages because it got so annoying. 
 This however does help you despise them and wish them to die in the most painful ways possible, 
 so I guess it does serve its purpose.
  
  Another problem, I felt that the game is too linear. This sounds lame, but it is true. You don't 
 really stumble onto anything, it's all scripted, which detracts from the experience a lot, and 
 means there is little to no replay value. There's only one way to get through each level, no option. 
 This does mean you'll see and hear a lot of the same things over again. Its like old school gaming 
 on the c64. ALso, I found that you have to be facing precisely the correct way, angle, stood, crouching, 
 whatever, to trigger inventory items is utterly ridiculous. *SPOILERS* To hit the fan with the 
 bar to get into the sewers, you HAVE to be on the right side facing to the left of the fan, otherwise 
 he won't do it. Come on! Also, rescuing Burnham, I was crouching trying to give him the postcard, 
 but no, he has to be stood up. That's ridiculous. It sounds petty, but really, this is something 
 that should've been sorted before the game's release.
  
  The AI is another let down. Your enemies are awfully stupid, and so easy to kill. You can lure 
 them into most any corridor and they'll duly follow in single file. That said, due to a lot of 
 the game being centred on stealth, I'm surprised they didn't put more work into it. The stealth 
 parts are very simple, especially when compared to games like Thief, Hitman, and Splinter Cell, 
 all of which are much older and vastly superior stealth wise. The AI patrols are very superficial 
 and simple, and it doesn't really hold a great intensity, because if you are discovered you'll 
 surely be killed because Jack doesn't have a 'run' option, he just ambles along at his regular 
 walking pace. So, you'll have to load it again and watch the bit where it cuts to a another perspective 
 on the rooftops and listen to the guards' inane talking for clues you already know in order to 
 get back to that bit again etc etc.
  
  I hate controlled saving! It's for consoles, why must we endure it on PCs? Please game designers, 
 give us our freedom! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MooseBoys
Rating: 3.8
Date: Jun 1, 2006 11:21 pm PT
Review:  I'd like to start out by commenting on a quote from another user's review:
  "It will appeal to those who liked games like the Thief series and the original Deus Ex." First 
 of all, I'd like to say that I was outright offended that anyone would compare either of those 
 masterpieces to this mediocrity. Although all could perhaps be placed in the same genre, CoC lacks 
 the core game features that made those games so enjoyable. Both Thief and Deus Ex featured extremely 
 expansive environments, free range movement, and an expansive variety of paths you could choose 
 to complete each mission or level. CoC is quite the opposite. There is absolutely positively only 
 ONE way to complete every section of the game. If you attempt to open a door, 99% of the time, 
 your character will say one of two annoying voiceclips: "It's locked." or "It won't open." If you 
 can open a door, however, you can be damn sure that it's the right way to go, because there's only 
 ever one way to progress thru a given level.
  
  Some of the puzzles as well are outright absurd. For example, having to ring church bells in a 
 certain order to be able to move a floor tile to enter a basement??? Honestly, what the f**k.
 
  
  One of the most infuriating things about the game as well is the lack of save points. You'll be 
 running thru a building, hopping over rooftops, climbing up ladders, and then BOOM. You hit an 
 invisible wall while trying to clear a jump off the balcony and you hit the ground and die. Where 
 do you end up loading? Where you were 30 minutes ago, having to go around finding clues to a safe 
 combination that you yourself already know, but can't enter because your character doesn't. It's 
 frustrations like these that completely take away the suspense from the game. I don't think I ever 
 actually stopped playing because I'd had enough or had to go do something else. I always ended 
 with something along the lines of "F*** THIS SH**!" and then I'd go play HL2 or BF2, or in this 
 case write a review bashing the game.
  
  After reading the reviews it appears that many people don't realize that Call of Cthulhu is a Dungeons 
 and Dragons gameplay type. Anyone who knows anything about D&D, however, will know that CoC: DCoE 
 has virtually nothing in it reminiscent of D&D, save for the necessity of having to "Use" items 
 on other objects or people, as well as the character talking to himself about his surroundings 
 (DM) . The things that made the D&D game fun to play, however, are unfortunately nonexistent in 
 DCoE.
  
  Pros:
  Available on direct2drive
  Cool horror sequences
  "Insanity effects"
  
  Cons:
  No physics whatsoever
  No dynamic audio, no EAX
  Stereo 
 sound support only
  Some common gfx cards not supported
  Glitchy graphics and sound
  Glitchy gameplay
  Invisible walls
  100% linear gameplay
  Save points are rare
  AI is dumber 
 than a lobotomized lemming
  Alt-Tab crashes the game
  
  Bottom line:
  Save yourself $30 and go find some geeks to play the original D&D: CoC with. It'll be more fun. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Fluxion
Rating: 9.6
Date: May 26, 2006 11:15 pm PT
Review:  A phenominal playing experience that is ambitious, original, and engrossing. Frightningly atmospheric 
 and suspensful. These qualities make it an absorbingly great time for the right player, but I'm 
 afraid it will not be appreciated by the pvp/deathmatch masses who want constant action and unlimited 
 ammunition. This is a thinking-man's shooter. It will appeal to those who liked games like the 
 Thief series and the original Deus Ex. The graphics are very slightly dated, but still do just 
 fine. You have to expect that from a game that took much longer than anticipated to get out the 
 door. Give the developers great credit for finishing it instead of shelving it. And also for doing 
 something a little different. Great job!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Homes225
Rating: 7
Date: May 20, 2006 6:56 pm PT
Review:  CC: DCE is a FPS/horror/cult shooter that is set in the 1920s. Since it is set in the 1920s you 
 can expect to see such classics such as the Tommy Gun and the Revolver. The aiming system is realistic 
 because if you hit an enemy with a shot to the leg they will slow down and start favoring the healthy 
 leg. The story is kind of weird and hard to understand at times but the game is still fun. Gameplay 
 is different and enemies are just odd compared to other horror/shooter games. The puzzles/events 
 triggered by player to continue can get very confusing and frustrating, I even found it hard many 
 times to play without a Walkthrough courtesy of Gamespot :) CC: DCE is a good grab if you have the 
 time and money to spend but other than that its not a must own. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: alvincys
Rating: 1.7
Date: May 20, 2006 9:30 am PT
Review:  A classic? yeah.. A seriously sick and disturbing one. The sneaking, killing, and puzzle-solving 
 were fun. But sanity loss? You call that realistic? I call that psychotic! It may cost actual sanity 
 loss to the weak-minded. Especially when my character gets sanity loss for no particular reason 
 at times, causing extreme frustration, having to wait for the infamous Jack Walters to calm down. 
 If let's say, for example, a person was exposed to some gruesome death, can that person avoid sanity 
 loss by just looking upwards? or is he/she able to recover just by waiting for a few seconds/minutes?? 
 It's hard to be realistic in games. So come on. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: addictx
Rating: 7
Date: May 16, 2006 9:38 pm PT
Review:  CoC: Dark Corners of the earth brings out something different for FPS players. i'm not going to 
 talk about the story line cause it's just rather complicated and well, different. so you'll have 
 to find out yourselves.
  
  the gameplay is rather unique as you play a detective who has no idea what's going on. in a first 
 person shooter mode, you dont have a health bar/hud/ammo bar or anything that would indicate your 
 status. Your "inventory" is the only thing that allows you to check your health status and items. 
 
  
  What i like most of this game is that it gives a classical kind of movies style where the colour 
 isn't that vibrant and is very brownish and dull on everything. your vision while playing is also 
 blurry most of the time as if you were watching some old 60's colored film. 
  
  You also tend to get traumatized or at least feel how it is to get traumatized. That's a cool effect 
 i noticed and it really keeps you on the edges of noticing other traumatizing things in the gameplay. 
 Visions get really blurry, heartbeat gets faster and harder, you start mumbling in fear, you loose 
 focus on heights, and many more cool things.
  
  Weapons are not the main concern in this game, you also have to play with stealth, solving clues, 
 memory and race against time. Your ammo is very limited as well as your health items. The number 
 of enemies to kill aren't that many so conserving your ammo isn't that necessary. 
  
  The AI in this game isn't that fasnicating as you'll be constantly thrown into clueless dialogues 
 at the beginning and ending with tonnes of monologues. You keep your little journal to allow yourself 
 to read what's in your mind, total unnecessary, but i guess it gives the "detective-ish-ness" for 
 the game. The enemies in response to you aren't that bright also, they stone for most of the time 
 when you're detected and they often miss their shots, however there are times in the game when 
 you're being pursued by the enemy, this makes you feel the rush and intensity of being chased cause 
 the AI's do put up a good chase. 
  
  Overall, COC packs a good new experience for FPS games. although it will tend to get dull a little 
 bit after you played for more than 5 hours, the storyline is so weird until you will force yourself 
 to finish the blardy game. it doesn't take more than 10 hours, unless you're an unexperienced gamer. 
 COC should be given a try by those FPS players who is looking for something different. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Xtr3me2006
Rating: 8.8
Date: May 8, 2006 11:26 am PT
Review:  This is a game that needs to be played. it was a pleasure for me to play it. Even if i like everything 
 witch is horror i think this game has something that makes it different, but i don't know what. 
 In those two days i have played the game i was always careful cause the game doesn't have repeating 
 scenes. Every level is different. The story of this game is briliant ! 
  The Graphic is good but the sound it's even better. The game ending suggests that another Call 
 of cthulhu game will be released. when will it be released ? I don't know ! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dexfx69
Rating: 9.6
Date: May 6, 2006 11:56 pm PT
Review:  As far as survival-horror shooters go, this one has more to offer game-play wise than most. The 
 depth of the atmosphere is unparallelled in the genre, and if you're looking for spooky and realistic 
 immersion, you'll find it here. The sound effects and voice acting are mostly top notch, and exceptionally 
 cinematic. The graphics use a grainy look for an edgy experience, as you'll see in the intro of 
 the first level of the game. This alone adds a realistic grungy creepyness to the atmosphere, something 
 never seen before in this genre. The graphics are excellent, although there are occasional lower 
 res textures, and limited specular / advanced DX9.0c effects. This certainly is a minor issue when 
 considering the immersion, believability and sounds are all very well executed. 
  
  If you're looking for a movie-like gaming experience of supense, horror and atmosphere, look no 
 further. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HiSaZuL
Rating: 8.8
Date: May 6, 2006 4:10 pm PT
Review:  To start with its how horror games should be.
  
  At first I didnt really know what to think but as soon as you start gettin in the middle of action 
 thats where things start gettin good. A combination of stealth-adventure-puzzle-fps this usualy 
 ends in dissaster but this isnt the case. While in general does require some brain work its rare 
 and usualy doesnt take a genious, action can be hard and tricky at times but its defenetly not 
 boring or repetative. Great work on sound adds a chilling feeling to the game. While grafics in 
 general are nothing special, effects do seem rather nice but still nothing special. Gameplay is 
 diverse and always keeps you busy, controls are generaly similiar to any fps, so its very easy 
 to get used to. Intresting rating system rates you at the end so for some people it will have great 
 replay value.
  I'm not that much familiar with Lovecraft's works but the little I do know show that this game 
 does follow up on the novels that inspired it. So the people who read the books should like the 
 game.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: gonzax
Rating: 9.8
Date: May 6, 2006 4:36 am PT
Review:  I have played lots and lots of games and this is one of those big unexpected surprises you find 
 from time to time. If you are looking for another brainless shooter then forget about it. Call 
 of Cthulhu feels more like and adventure than a shooter though there is a lot of action too. Variety 
 is also one of the games stronger points, you find puzzles, exploration, action parts, everything 
 is mixed in a great way and the games story is very well told, you just feel like you are Jack 
 and its you whos there living it. Some people will probably complain about graphics, well, in 
 my opinion unless you are only happy with last generation graphics and shaders, this games graphics 
 are really very very good, the design also is fantastic and the game is intense, thrilling, immersive, 
 fun, entertaining, the story is great, it never becomes boring or repetitious, it has everything.
 
  Just go out, do yourself a favour and buy this game, you wont regret it.
  Oh, and the PC version is also very cheap!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dawn_Patrol
Rating: 8.8
Date: May 6, 2006 3:37 am PT
Review:  I absolutely LOVE the atmosphere in this game. It really is amazing, it needs to be played to feel 
 how great it is. The whole storyline is a faithful transformation of H. P Lovecraft's work to the 
 screen. It's a pitty those movies that use his work dont do it justice like this game does. Not 
 once do you sit while playing it and think "nah, this is just a game" even though you know it is. 
 This is how immersive the gameplay is.
  
  I personally only ever played this game early in the morning for an hour or so, or late at night 
 for hours on end. I started playing one night around 10pm and said to myself "Right I am going 
 to play an hour or two of this, then watch some Malcolm In The Middle". I never did get to see 
 MITM that night. As when I finished this game, it was around 4am. If you have the same game playing 
 time set out as I do then the atmosphere in this game cannot and WILL NOT be beaten. It makes you 
 feel as if you are the guy holding the gun, not you controling that guy. Silly this may seem to 
 some but I felt as if I was there in the game when playing it, I enjoyed it that much.
  
  My only complaint about this game is the sanity level thing. It is a little bit of a pest more 
 than anything. I kind of see the point to it being there, I do, as your character sees some abnormal 
 things during his journey. But I cannot get past the final hurdle in the game. It is because of 
 this I have never seen the ending. The roof keeps coming down on me after I leave the tunnel that 
 I was first captured in. As soon as I go in it and come out the other side of it the roof comes 
 down on me. I can't get any further. I tried for nearly 4 hours straight one time.
  
  The aiming and over all control system (well minus the sanity meter) is good for a PC FPS game. 
 The character moves well enough, he doesn't have a lead weight tied to each foot. Which is good.
 
  
  Over all the game is pretty good and does a wonderful job at re-creating the world that H. P Lovecraft 
 created in his work.
  
  Well done guys. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dryden555
Rating: 8.9
Date: May 8, 2006 7:32 am PT
Review:  to quote the GS review "Call of Cthulhu has a lot of great moments in it, actually. "
  
  In other words, this game is actually really great as long as you aren't looking for an "all action 
 all of the time type of game." 
  
  Call of Cthulu has a genuinely creepy ambiance AND a bizarre but great story to tell. That's rarely 
 successfully done in a game. I found it easy to forgive the occasional washed out wall texture 
 because it is clear that a lot of thought went in to the overall look of the game. There are some 
 truly creepy moments in the course of the game's story.
  
  Yes, the shooting interface is Ok but nothing special and there are a few puzzles that are head-scratchers. 
 I just went to gamefaqs for the safe combinations myself. All of the other puzzles were fine.
 
  
  For those who like strong story-telling and genuinely creepy ambiance, this game is a rare gem., 
 even if it isn't perfect.
  
  Gamespot's screenshots look way off from how the game really looks for some reason. The game should 
 be dark and shadowy but but their screenshots are too dark and dont represent the game correctly. 
 
  
  Honestly this game deserves something better than a 7.5. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: unopu2
Rating: 9
Date: May 2, 2006 7:26 pm PT
Review:  DIE OUTSIDER!...
  
  ... and the only thing you can do is run, and block the door behind you!. This game will make you 
 feel totally diferent from other FPS, you will be actually scared from this folks!
  
  WHY DO I COME TO THIS TOWN?!
  
  Some shooting in a strange manor, will make you see some things, 
 really bizarre, and make you go mental for sometime... (6 YEARS!!!!)
  Just when you were traying to regain your mind sanity, the phone rings, with some strange mission 
 on the other side..
  next thing you are on a bus. Destination : Some lost fishing town... 
  Since your arrival to the town, you felt that something was not right, first, no one agreed to 
 answer your questions and blow you off in a rude way!
  Some accident make you realize that you are there by your own. And after that your peace of mind 
 will be further by the minute...
  Mission update!... GET OF THIS TOWN ALIVE!
  
  UGLY SON OF A BIT$&%&$
  
  Yes, this game is a technical beauty, meaning, the game doesny use 
 the latest shader quality, but make it through, the ambientation is fantastic, (RECOMENDATION : 
 PLAY IT IN THE DARK AND LOUD)
  i promess this game will make you jump of your sit several times...
  The control is perfect, 
 when you are dizzy is really difficult make a shot :)
  The details that have taken in consideration are fantastic, when you get shot or a broken bone 
 you will experience dizziness, lack of audition, etc.
  and dont let your men get to wacko!, because you`ve been there and you dont want to be there again!
 
  
  in conclusion, this game is an beautiful audio, mental, visual, experience!
  H. P. lovecraft lovers, this is your shi"$%
  
  From ARGENTINA whit love....
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: blast_off7
Rating: 9.3
Date: Apr 30, 2006 1:07 pm PT
Review:  Something like this, we've been expecting al lot of time. Finally, Bethesda manages to bring to 
 life the aspect of Lovecraft's Cthulhu mythos, emerging the player into the community of a strange 
 village, a pretty much known setting from previous works of Lovecraft, and movies, such as Dagon (highly 
 recommended) where the worship of the Elder Things have many effects on the villagers, and mostly, 
 the.... passers-by!
  Terror, deafness, colour-blindness, and eventually schizophrenia, are just some of the things you 
 will experience in the shoes of P. I. Jack Walters, who, while in just a find the missing person 
 mission, unravels the darkest secrets of the Elder Things cult.
  There are some weapons to help you out, but, in the long term, they are not used to advance the 
 plot.
  The graphics of the game are very well designed, as well as the sound. I can still hear the heartbeat 
 of the hero, pounding, while terrifying creatures emerge from the depths of the sea, and the sewers.
 
  Play this game..... and remember, don't spent too much time looking at dead bodies and stuff............ 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KloudLance
Rating: 8.9
Date: Apr 29, 2006 11:19 pm PT
Review:  The game puts you in the shoes of a detective named Jack. With an extremely immersive story-line, 
 realistic gameplay and effects, this game is amazing. From stealthily sneaking in the shadows to 
 shooting mysterious creatures the game combines FPS with puzzle solving and stealth in a way that 
 makes it extremely interesting and want more. As the story develops the game gets more and more 
 interesting as you fight for your sanity while revealing deeper secrets into your worst nightmare. 
 Its a very rewarding experience to play. If you dont think its worth it, at least rent it and play 
 it. Its addictive. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dennylson
Rating: 8.8
Date: Apr 24, 2006 7:56 am PT
Review:  We all waited a hell of a long to for this game to be released. Now that I've played it, I ask 
 myself, was it worth the wait? The answer, in my view, is most definitely yes! The game is a really 
 horrifying experience and the storyline is strong and very immersive.
  
  A whole range of new game play ideas that have never been tried before are used within the game. 
 For example, the lack of a HUD meaning you have to use your memory and wits to get through the 
 game. You need to keep count of how many shots you have fired before you reload your weapons. The 
 sanity system is a good idea and put into effect quite well but it can get very irritating when 
 Jack keeps muttering to himself. This occurs a lot and can be very frustrating. Of course you can 
 avoid dizzy spells and panic attacks my steering clear of horrific scenes.
  
  If you are like me and have read some of the original HP Lovecraft stories, then you will see that 
 the game keeps to the Cthulhu Mythos rules very well. The game would appear to be a combination 
 of stories fused from "The Call Of Cthulhu" "The Shadow Over Innsmouth" and "The Shadow Out Of 
 Time." There are quite a few stories I have not read yet so I'm not too sure about where the Shoggoth 
 creature hails from.
  
  There is a huge let down factor in DCOTE relating to game bugs. Often, the game will randomly crash 
 which we all know can be extremely annoying (especially if you have not saved your game for a while) . 
 A few other rough edges haven't been smoothed out either so you could say that this game is somewhat 
 of an uncut diamond. I hope that Bethesda release a patch to fix these problems.
  
  To sum up, I'd say that this game is a great gaming experience that has set a new marker for FPS 
 games. Whether you are a fan of the Lovecraft stories or not, it is well worth buying for the frightening 
 experience you will encounter.
  
  Dennylson 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheN00binator
Rating: 8.8
Date: Apr 23, 2006 2:19 pm PT
Review:  I picked up COC: DCOTE with absolutely no idea what kind of game I was about to play, apart from 
 the score for the XBOX version from gamespot (I couldn't be bothered to read the review) . When 
 I first played it, I raised an eyebrow. The graphics didn't look particularly nice, in fact it 
 looked rather gritty and boring to be honest. And everyone knows, graphics helps make the first 
 impression of the game. I played the first level, and immediately raised my other eyebrow (but 
 not in the shocked, suprised way.. I just mean double the sarcasticness of one eyebrow) . Not because 
 the first level was bad, but because it really didnt look like my 'thing'. The first level is what 
 I call a 'haunted house' level. Basically you venture through a house full of dark rooms and a 
 generally boring environment. I got five minutes into it, and just quit out. I dont like those 
 type of levels AT ALL.
  
  The next day though, I had nothing better to do, so I thought I might as well give it another chance. 
 I forced myself to finish the boring first level, and... wow... I'm glad I did. This game is, in 
 actual fact, great. On the verge of superb, even. It has its shortcomings, but overall I can happilly 
 say that this game rocks. Period.
  This game is SCARY! But not the 'jump out at you and rip your head off' sort of scary. This game 
 builds up a terrifying atmosphere and immerses you in it. It has mediocre graphics, but still pulls 
 off that scaryness perfectly. There is a part where you walk through a sewer quite early into the 
 game. It was 3AM where I live (demonic witching hour OMG) and there I was, with nothing but a pistol 
 with one bullet in it, walking through this dark, gloomy sewer, hearing nothing but a steady "drip... 
 drip... drip". Every now and then you can hear the scurrying of a rat, and each time I kept expecting 
 something to happen. Then you hear the laughter of a little girl, sounding so close, yet nothing 
 is there. Nothing made me jump, or cry out, or anything. But that was one of those rare occasions 
 when I just quit out of the game right then, and went to play The Sims 2. I was so immersed in 
 the game, so freaked out, that I just couldn't play anymore. Yeah, I know Im a wuss, but trust 
 me, this game is guaranteed to freak you out. Anyone who says different is a liar.
  
  The story in this game is very good for a first person shooter. Its not suprising really, seeing 
 as this game is based on a famous book (ive never read it myself, but hope to one day) . Also its 
 very realistic. Sure it has monsters and demons and stuff. But other than that... You know. You 
 dont have a crosshair, the weapons you receive dont have almost infinite ammo, and you explore 
 a quarter of the game without a weapon at all. Each action in this game has its own animation. 
 So, for example, you dont walk up to a door, press a button on the keyboard, and it opens of its 
 own accord. You see a hand reach out and turn the door knob. When you climb down a ladder, you 
 dont just walk off the edge and float to the bottom. You see hands reach out to it, and grab each 
 hold as you descend. Also, you're not made out to be some kind of superhero. You cant run very 
 fast, you cant take much gunfire without dieing, and when you get shot you can start limping or 
 whatever (depending on where you get shot of course) . And you heal yourself with bandages from 
 a medkit (which doesnt just happen instantly like on some games. You watch as the character bends 
 down, takes the bandages out of the medkit, and ties it round his leg) .
  
  If you're up for a fast paced,  shooter, then give this 
 game a miss. (Not that mindless shooters arent fun, of course.) If you can appreciate a slow paced, 
 atmospheric, story-driven experience, then Call Of Cthulhu: Dark Corners Of The Earth is the game 
 for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BlackCanopus
Rating: 7.8
Date: Apr 30, 2006 9:32 pm PT
Review:  Call of Cthulhu is one of those genre-bending kinds of games which you do not see often. It tries 
 many new features -and possibilities- and delivers a lot of variety, and succeeds in doing so. 
 In fact, this game is not your traditional FPS or survival-horror kind of game. It is a combination 
 of many genres, and the change from each type of gameplay to the other is so smooth, you never 
 notice that this game ' switches ' its genre several time. In the beginning, DCOTE is a pure adventure 
 game. In fact, it looks and feels like a classic point-and-click adventure game. This kind of gameplay 
 may seem a little odd in the beginning, because you will be forced to venture into potentially 
 dangerous areas without any kind of weapon or protection. But the game will not let you down here. 
 It may be a little un-nerving at first, but all you have to do is to solve several puzzles, and 
 the puzzles are not a big deal either.
  In the first chapter, the only difference between DCOTE and a traditional adventure games is its 
 first-person view, and an inventory similar to traditional survival-horror games. The first-person 
 view is a very interesting feature, because the game utilizes your point of view to create a really 
 catchy and realistic atmosphere. Good use of textures and full-screen effects help to put you right 
 in the middle of the story, and the story is really catchy too. It is not an exact remake of H. P. Lovecraft 
 literature, but it captures the essence of Cthulhu mythos and does a wonderful job of turning it 
 into a playable experience. But while the story is impressive, the art direction is not. People 
 behave oddly or force you do certain things, which in nature, are ridiculous. For example in one 
 of the worst scenes of the game a sailor stands next to a door and asks you to bolt the door (I 
 dont think it requires a lot of experience or energy to bolt a door, or does it? The sailor could 
 bolt the door by himself) . In another scene, you have to leave your friend in a car. The enemies 
 spot you even from a very long distance, but they dont bother looking at the boy in the car so 
 close to them.
  DCOTE has realistic environments and an interesting lighting system which creates realistic and 
 spooky indoor and outdoor scenery. But unlike those nice environments, character modeling in DCOTE 
 is terrible. Characters are ugly and unnatural, and most of them look exactly alike. There are 
 tainted people who are -and should be- ugly, but even normal people share the same basic characteristics 
 (big foggy eyes, for example) . There are few exceptions however, which have a more humane look. 
 But unlike human models which are not so eye-catching, monster models and dead bodies are amazing 
 (I cant believe I am saying this) . Some of those monsters and other things are really scary 
 and shake you to the bone.
  While other games use realistic graphics and scary scenes as eye-candy, DCOTE utilizes its graphics 
 as a powerful tool to change your gaming experience. If you gaze at scary scenes, you will start 
 to feel dizzy and your view will change (and it is a lot more difficult to play when you feel dizzy) . 
 If you remain in un-nerving places for a long time, you will start to lose your control. You character 
 will talk to himself, and may start shooting. In most sever cases, you may commit suicide.
  The game has a pretty good voice-acting in cut-scenes; but the voice acting is repetitive and annoying 
 in the game. First, your character talks to himself most of the time. He gives you useful tips 
 and information, but as you play on, his phrases, like: Its an old grandfather clock become 
 repetitive and boring. If your character becomes nervous, he will start talking to himself. Now, 
 if you examine or use something, his mood will change into a very happy mood, as nothing has happened! 
 Besides, while graphics and gameplay create such an interesting blend of realism, your characters 
 babblings ruins the games otherwise realistic atmosphere. Your enemies voices especially when 
 they are looking for you- are even more repetitive than those of yours, and seriously damage the 
 games value.
  The first chapter of DCOTE is a mere introduction to both story and game mechanics, which is interesting 
 to play. But as you progress, the game will start to change into a more action-oriented experience. 
 DCOTE combines adventure, action, stealth and survival themes, but is not successful in all of 
 them. 
  In several areas, you will have to use stealth as the only option. The game uses interesting settings 
 for stealth: the scene becomes a little blurry when you are in stealth mode and your enemies will 
 not play dumb when you are in their eyesight. But your already slow speed will reduce even more, 
 and it will take a lot of time to move from one place to another. And there are not many places 
 which you can use stealth as an alternative to combat.
  Combat, in the other hand, is the flaw of the game. You do not have any cross-hair, but you can 
 use 2nd mouse button to aim more precisely. It is a nice feature however, because it makes you 
 anxious and adds to the realism of the game. But when you shoot all of the bullets, the game does 
 not reload automatically, and you will have to reload manually. It may seem easy, but makes the 
 combat a lot more difficult. Reloading takes a very long time, which is good and bad. It is good 
 because reloading is very realistic. It is bad because your enemies are fast, so they take their 
 time and kill you while you are reloading. And you never know how many bullets are left in you 
 gun, so you will have to count every shot (which is a very difficult task in middle if a battle) 
 or pray that you do not run out of bullets in middle of a battle. Another option while you have 
 depleted the bullets in you gun- is to switch to another gun. For some unknown reason, it takes 
 a very long time to switch between guns in this game, and makes the combat a lot harder. Those 
 already annoying controls become even more annoying when you use traditional PC controls. DCOTE 
 for PC is a port from X-BOX version of the game, and it is not a good port at all. For example, 
 your mouse will not work as smooth as it would in any other PC FPS. And you can not map 3rd or 
 4th or 5th mouse-buttons to any of your abilities. These bad controls become a serious problem 
 when you have to deal with the games uber-powerful enemies. All of the enemies in this game are 
 extremely tough, and in some levels they just keep re-spawning. Because of the games poor AI, 
 the enemies do not take cover; they just rush towards you and hit you as hard as they can. When 
 an enemy spots you (especially when in stealth mode) an army of enemies attack you and even if 
 you manage to kill them, they just keep coming.
  DCOTE uses a very strange health system. You get hurt real easy and even in the games easiest 
 setting, enemies deal tremendous amounts of damage with smallest blows. As you get hurt, the scene 
 starts to become gray and when you are close to dying, everything slows down. If you break one 
 of your feet, your speed will decrease a bit and you will start shambling. If you break both of 
 your feet, you will move very slowly. If you become wounded, you will start to bleed. You have 
 to fix your wound fast, because if you bleed for a long time, you will lose too much blood and 
 you will eventually die. It is very easy to fix a wound: you can click on a grid which tells you 
 how to cure, and where to cure. It is a very interesting system, but it is not polished. Since 
 you get hurt often, you will have to use a lot of bandages and med packs, which are scarce.
  In some levels, you do not have any kind of weapon, or your weapons are too weak. This is where 
 you must start to run (and the game changes into a true survival experience) . Escaping from enemies 
 is a very exciting part of the game. However, you must time your movements, and use your environment 
 (for example, you can bolt the doors or use cupboards to close doorways) , because your enemies 
 are very eager to catch you, and if they do, you wont survive for long.
  Sorrily, bugs play a major part in this game. The game occasionally crashes to desktop, auto-save 
 feature does not work sometimes, and in one case (in A dangerous voyage level) , all of the walls 
 and floors became invisible. Because of bad scripting, several major bugs may prevent you from 
 finishing the game; like the bugs in the Hydra boss fight and the final run, where you have to 
 elude the rublle in order to reach safety.
  Despite the lack of polish, unfair gameplay and major stability problems, DCOTE is a very interesting 
 game, especially for those who are interested in a little more innovation in gaming industry.
 
  
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
