-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Call of Duty
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/action/callofduty/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Oct 29, 2003
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 9
Critic Score: 9.2, 67 Review (s)
User Score: 9.2, 12,334 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Activision
Developer: Infinity Ward
Genre: Historic First-Person...
Date:     Oct 29, 2003 &raquo;  
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Most anyone who plays games would more than likely be very impressed with Call of Duty's authentic 
 presentation, well designed and often very intense single-player missions, and fast-paced, entertaining 
 multiplayer modes. 

  There is no shortage of World War II-themed first-person shooters available, and it's no secret 
 that a number of them, including Medal of Honor: Allied Assault and Battlefield 1942, are extremely 
 good. Now you can add Call of Duty to that list. The first game by Infinity Ward, a studio composed 
 of some of the same team that worked on Allied Assault, Call of Duty presents outstanding action 
 all around and is at least as good as, and in several ways is simply better than, any similar game. 
 Though both its single-player and multiplayer modes will be familiar to those who've been keeping 
 up with the WWII-themed shooters of the past several years, most anyone who plays games would more 
 than likely be very impressed with Call of Duty's authentic presentation, well designed and often 
 very intense single-player missions, and fast-paced, entertaining multiplayer modes.  

          What would it take for a WWII-themed shooter to distinguish itself in this day and age? 
 A whole bunch of stuff that's in Call of Duty.     

  Call of Duty's distinguishing features, by and large, can't be considered innovations -- that's too 
 strong of a word. However, this is a game that pulls together many of the best aspects of other, 
 similar games, and also includes all sorts of little "wish-list items" that may have crossed your 
 mind while playing those other games. The result seems, above all, very well designed. The action 
 in Call of Duty, ultimately, is arcadelike -- much like in Allied Assault or Battlefield 1942. You 
 can't survive a shot to the head, but you can take a few bullets anywhere else and can keep going 
 just fine. There's also a clear onscreen indication of the direction from which you're taking fire 
 (and, as you're getting hit, the screen shudders to make it look like it hurts) . Luckily, first 
 aid kits, conveniently placed in the levels or occasionally dropped by killed enemies, instantly 
 restore large portions of your health. You hardly ever need to activate a "use" key in this game. 
 When you do, you'll use it to instantly set explosives or grab documents, but you won't use it 
 for opening doors.  

  Actually, that's because you won't be opening any doors. One gameplay contrivance that's presented 
 in the first few seconds of the first mission is that any time you see a closed door in Call of 
 Duty, it's supposed to stay closed. This seems like a minor point, but how many shooters have you 
 played in which you fumbled for every doorknob, trying to find the one door that would actually 
 open? That's simply not an issue in Call of Duty. Despite the highly authentic atmosphere created 
 for the levels in the game, there tends to be an intuitive, clear path from the beginning of the 
 level to the end. The levels can be challenging, at least at the higher two of the game's four 
 difficulty settings, but they're not frustrating. If you die, you can restart at your most recent 
 save almost instantly. You don't need to worry about hitting the quick-save key all the time, either, 
 since the game automatically and seamlessly saves your progress not just at the beginning of a 
 level but at several points throughout the level. The game's brief tutorial at the beginning of 
 the single-player mode will be second nature for experienced players of first-person shooters. 
 However, since it's in the context of a military boot camp, it will also provide, for new and experienced 
 players alike, some valuable advice on (and practice with) the nuances of Call of Duty's gameplay. 

          Call of Duty does an excellent job of modeling American, British, Russian, and German weapons 
 of the era. You can shoot your weapon from the hip, aim down its sights, use it as a bludgeon, 
 or change its firing mode, in some cases.     

  You cannot sprint in Call of Duty, nor can you tiptoe. While standing, you move at a constant pace 
 that's not too slow and not too fast but is just right. You'll have no trouble quickly getting 
 from point A to point B. However, when you're running from cover to cover in an area that's under 
 fire, you'll be painfully aware of how vulnerable you are. You should probably keep your head down, 
 and Call of Duty lets you easily switch between standing, crouching, and prone stances. You move 
 slower while crouching -- not too slowly though -- which makes this the best way to get around when 
 in the thick of battle. Movement, as well as turning, is understandably much slower while prone. 
 Sometimes, however, this is the perfect option for staging an ambush or staying out of harm's way. 
 As in many shooters, you can also lean around corners in Call of Duty, which can be a real lifesaver 
 during some of the game's deadly firefights when you need all the cover you can get.  

  Call of Duty features a wide arsenal of authentic American, British, Russian, and German WWII weapons, 
 including various rifles, submachine guns, side arms, and grenades. You can carry only two larger 
 weapons at a time (as well as a pistol and some grenades) , so, typically, you'll want to have a 
 rifle for out-in-the-open engagements and a submachine gun for tight-quarter combat. While armed 
 with any of these, you may shoot from the hip, raise the weapon to eye level and aim down the sight 
 (for more accuracy at the expense of movement speed) , or use the butt of the weapon to try and 
 club an enemy to death. Manually reloading your weapon tends to be faster than letting the clip 
 run out, and some weapons let you switch firing modes, like going from full-auto to single shot 
 (though, since you can squeeze off single rounds in full-auto mode, this isn't very useful) . Your 
 crosshairs expand when you're moving and contract when you're steady, pointing out how much more 
 inaccurate you'll be if you try to run-and-gun. The weapons themselves are modeled very convincingly, 
 thanks in no small part to the tactile sense you get from being able to look through their sights 
 or use them as bludgeons, and most every one will earn your respect since, in the right situations, 
 they can all be deadly effective.     

  Sniper rifle-type weapons tend to be extremely powerful in first-person shooters, and you'd think 
 that players' inabilities to run at the equivalent of 60mph in this game would make them particularly 
 easy targets during multiplayer matches. Call of Duty has some good solutions here as well. For 
 one thing, when looking through the scope of a rifle, your view will be severely restricted, and 
 your peripheral vision will be virtually eliminated. This makes the scope work properly as a means 
 of lining up a long-ranged shot but not so useful for just scanning the horizon and spotting enemies 
 from farther than the eye could see.  

          Call of Duty's single-player missions let you experience some incredible battles from the 
 perspective of an American soldier, a British commando, and a Russian conscript, who isn't even 
 given a gun.     

  Additionally, multiplayer Call of Duty features the very clever "kill cam," which lets a player 
 who's been killed relive the last five seconds of his life from his killer's perspective. The implications 
 of the kill cam are pretty significant: If anyone isn't playing fair in a multiplayer match, the 
 kill cam ought to make this quite clear, and then players can vote to have the offending player 
 kicked. When playing a deathmatch-style multiplayer mode, you can easily skip the kill-cam sequence 
 and get back into the action, but if you're playing one of the multiplayer modes in which you can't 
 instantly respawn, it can make for an entertaining five-second consolation prize.  

  Call of Duty bills itself as having three distinct single-player campaigns -- one for the Americans, 
 one for the British, and one for the Russians -- but this isn't exactly the case. You do get to play 
 a number of exciting missions from the perspectives of each of these allied forces, and each one 
 takes place in a different part of Europe. However, you play through all of the game's missions 
 in a linear order, and there's no clear transition from one "campaign" to the next. There's no 
 epilogue when you finish a series of missions, so all you get is a different-looking between-mission 
 loading screen to clue you in that you've moved on to the next chunk of the game. Overall, the 
 single-player portion of Call of Duty is of approximately average length, meaning it should take 
 you some 10 hours, give or take, from beginning to end. None of it is filler.  

  Much like Medal of Honor: Allied Assault, Call of Duty really doesn't tell much of a story. You'll 
 get to survive through some harrowing experiences and help accomplish some significant victories, 
 but don't expect to become best friends with many of the game's characters (and don't choke back 
 any tears when some of them get gunned down or blown up) , and don't expect to get a sense of the 
 different main characters' unique personas. All there is to distinguish the game's three main characters 
 from one another are their names; they never speak, and the game never gives you a look at them, 
 since you see everything from their perspectives. And, no, there aren't any mirrors lying around 
 on the battlefield.  

  Also much like in Medal of Honor: Allied Assault, the absence of a conventional narrative in Call 
 of Duty is a trade-off that gave the game's designers the creative license to put you, the player, 
 in a number of different situations. These situations are very intense in their own rights, but, 
 collectively, they would never have been experienced by one man. In fact, Call of Duty is a step 
 in the right direction from Allied Assault in this regard, since that game suggested that the same 
 one character was responsible for all the heroics that took place. In Call of Duty, you're no hero 
 but just a soldier in the war (three different soldiers, one at a time) presented with incredible 
 circumstances. You just happen to be in the right place at the right time and have the opportunity 
 to make a real difference, or, at least, you can die trying. The single-player levels, like those 
 of Allied Assault, are sort of an interactive roller-coaster ride. The scenarios are heavily scripted. 
 Battles, fortunately, don't unfold in precisely the same way each time you attempt a level, but, 
 basically, you need to follow a set path through each level to end up experiencing it in just the 
 fashion that the designers probably intended. If you keep dying, you're probably just doing something 
 "wrong" and should try a slightly different approach. Levels obviously aren't walled-in or anything 
 and look realistic, so things like barbed-wire fences and minefields (as well as a handy onscreen 
 compass pointing to your next objective) will keep you from straying off course.  

          The kill cam is a neat feature of the game's multiplayer modes, and it allows you to relive 
 the last five seconds of your life from the perspective of whomever it was that took you out.  
    

  One of Call of Duty's most distinguishing features in the single-player mode is how many humans, 
 both friend and foe, it manages to cram into an environment. With the exception of a small handful 
 of corridor-crawl-style commando missions (which, while pretty good, are probably the least interesting 
 parts of the game) , you'll never be fighting alone, and you'll always have allied soldiers fighting -- and 
 dying -- by your side. These allies are mostly for the sake of ambience; they mostly look realistic 
 as they fight from behind cover and draw some of the enemy fire. They even sometimes charge the 
 enemy, as you'd expect them to under the circumstances. However, they won't do your job for you 
 and can't be depended upon to take out the bad guys.  

  In fact, in some cases, the presence of all these allied soldiers unfortunately works against your 
 suspension of disbelief. The occasional mission-critical character might get shot, only to get 
 back on his feet because the mission couldn't go on without him. (The designers apparently didn't 
 want to punish you for not looking out for your own.) You'll also sometimes see soldiers fail to 
 react properly to an enemy standing nearby. Still, far more often, the effect of being in the middle 
 of a pitched battle with seemingly dozens of soldiers on each side is quite convincing and dramatic. 
 This is especially true in the Stalingrad mission of the Russian campaign, in which legions of 
 conscripts, some bearing standards instead of arms, can be seen charging the entrenched enemy and 
 getting mowed down. You're just like the rest of them, only you manage to find a sideways route 
 instead of rushing at certain death head-on.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (501 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: thingamagigy
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 25, 2009 2:32 pm PT
Review:  I got this game when it first came out in 2003. The first thing I noticed was the amazing level 
 of graphics for that time. It totally beat Medal of honor in every way. Game play is also very 
 good. Controls are smooth and well made. There aren't any glitches in the game at all. It was very 
 well made. Another thing I noticed is that you never fight alone, there is always someone to help 
 you out. This humanizes the game and I noticed that I started to really like the characters in 
 the game. Voice acting was extremely well done. 
  
  Another nice thing is that the game is full of different places and scenarios to fight in. The 
 ever changing environment of the game makes it quite riveting. I couldn't stop playing even after 
 I'd beaten it a couple of times.
  
  
  When you do finish the single player game though, there is a really good mutiplayer part of the 
 game to. This was the cherry on top of it all. I give this game 10/10. One of the best games ever 
 made before. Thanks Activision. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: timblake9
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 1, 2008 8:23 am PT
Review:  This game is the best, most intense WW2 game out there. The graphics are very good considering 
 it came out around 5 years ago, and the gameplay is simple exquisite. The only thing hurting this 
 game is the few bugs and glitches it has, some of which don't ruin the gameplay and are merely 
 visual, but some a rather major and don't do this game justice.
  On many occasions now I have had to restart certain levels because, even though I successfully 
 do the objectives im supposed to do, it doesn't recognise this, and so I cannot continue. Just 
 before I wrote this, I was on the second mission, and destroyed the 2 tanks, and it didn't acknowledge 
 this, and so I could only continue to the where I would normally get in the car, but not past this 
 because the glitch that didn't allow my objectives to change.
  
  Regardless of these bugs, the game is still awesome, and is very realistic. The AI takes cover, 
 and seems to cover their own team. The guns are powerful but also the recoil is very real on them, 
 and the overall sense of the game is you are in a war. I would highly recommend this game because 
 it is a classic, and no other war series out there beats this 
::::::

::::::
UserName: awwitz
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 23, 2008 8:21 pm PT
Review:  This is one hell of a game! I was really amazed at the overall presentation. This game has redefined 
 the FPS genre. It really did!
  (STORY)
  The whole game is about World War II, at its peak. Players will be booted into three different 
 characters who have different engagements to the story. This keeps the story interesting because 
 there'll be a lot of diverse places to explore when the character transitions occur. This is not 
 jarring at all; it's actually a must to this game. This feat keeps the game moving. There are no 
 boring parts here, I swear! Better yet is the fact that this game is extremely dramatic. The squads 
 that join your character have their own say about "this crazy war!" Emotion is part of the greatness 
 of the story, and each NPC depicts it well. Even the German troops share the same sense of hatred 
 for the war. It's a first in a very successful series. 
  (GRAPHICS)
  The graphics are nice; much better than Medal Of Honor's graphics. The individual character animations 
 are impressive. There are facial expressions, which heightens the game's intensity; there are authentic 
 battle arenas that the game boasts; the weapon animation is surprisingly realistic. This features 
 some of the most memorable images for the PC. This game very much puts more reality to the historical 
 war than the war itself. 
  (SOUND)
  Well, what is there to say about the sound? I mean, it is great. Voice-overs are nicely done. The 
 war sounds are reverberating. It's cool. The soundtrack is really the bomb here. Never have I experienced 
 such emotional themes in a game. This is the first game that I played that utilizes orchestrations 
 well. 
  (GAMEPLAY)
  What made this game so popular from the get-go is the insane gameplay. Remember what I said about 
 'redefining the FPS genre'? This is the reason why: Fast-paced action; the balanced mix of lone-wolf 
 or with-squad gameplay; the amazing sniper sections; the in-vehicle combat; the weapons that inhibit 
 movement aside from axis-rotation; the multiplayer! Every bit of this game that matters is the 
 gameplay. This is the granddaddy of cinematic-gaming-experience! 
  (OVERALL)
  I gave it a 10. I would have given it an eleven, for crying out loud! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KingLim
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 19, 2008 4:30 pm PT
Review:  I can't help but compare Call of Duty to Medal of Honor: Allied Assault, well cos, some of the 
 team were from the party who did the latter. Being a major fan of the MoH series, I had a certain 
 disdain towards Call of Duty when it first came out, thinking... oh, it must be a rip-off. I'm so 
 wrong.
  
  Call of Duty has a promising setup and fresh gameplay despite the overused theme of WWIII in games, 
 starting from the hint of squad-based tactics. In the single-player, it gives you a solid multiplayer 
 feel where there're some great A. I. performance in most of the squad-based stages.
  
  As in Medal of Honor, the character you're playing is often an officer or secret agent, which can 
 be very James Bond the way you play, but Call of Duty does an impressive job by putting you in 
 the shoes of an average soldier, either a private or sergeant, and the next thing you know, it 
 throws you into the middle of the battlefield without mercy. If you say MoH: AA is like watching 
 a Saving Private Ryan movie, then Call of Duty is your Band of Brothers + Enemy at the Gates + 
 The Guns of Navarone. Not only are the stages are based on historical events, they're dramatically 
 choreographed with impactful and authentic sound effects for that extra oomph. The Medal of Honor 
 score is somewhat whimsical and adventurous, but the Call of Duty orchestration is a pure grit-filled 
 symphonic sweep.
  
  An all-time classic to put on your shelf and be proud of it.
  
  KingLim 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lonewolf1196
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 20, 2008 9:32 am PT
Review:  This game is intense! I love the real and effective approach taken by allies and Germans! Some 
 games like Halo you run through levels paying little attention to acuracy unless you are a sniper 
 well Call Of Duty changes that! Lay supressive fire but you will be more accurate standing still 
 pearing through your sight. Kill the Nazi scum with quick accurate rifle shots then lean back under 
 cover! The game does a great job of raking up diffculty through the story and diffrent settings! 
 No gore and just a little blood your allies dont swear to much it is prfect for anyone 6 and up! 
 Unlike run and gun shooters in this one you fight like a ww2 soilder not a tank with super sheilds 
 and rifles unless you are in a tank. I love the feeling of ducking from cover to cover putting 
 1 or 2 rifle bullets in a enemy who is trying to do same to you clearing the enemy and barly surviving 
 to find a health pack constaly finding a way to save your company, regiment, and or division that 
 make you feel important but still just a small part in a bigger war. always outnumbered and almost 
 always outgunned you fight through the Nazi menace tring to at least out manuver them. It realy 
 makes you feel like a soilder disaplined elite and just dang tough. also your allies are good enough 
 to kill the enemy and not be cannon fodder but still not good enogh to do the job without you. 
 Highly recomended to anyone! It will rock you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rohitmitra5752
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 18, 2008 5:21 am PT
Review:  If you have ever read about World War II, then you can never dislike or even ignore this game. 
 A brilliant gameplay, superb AI, awesome ambiance and the best sound effects ever along with rocking 
 graphics makes it a game that you can't stop playing. It was a deserving candidate to win the 'FPS 
 Game of the Year 2003'.
  
  
  The PLUS points:
  
  1. Gameplay - If any game can actually make you feel how it is like to be in war and how the soldiers 
 suffer, then it is this game. Starting of with the American campaign of the D-Day landing to the 
 British missions of holding a bridge captured to the Russian mission of the fall of the Berlin 
 Wall and the capture of the Reichstag, every detail filled into the game is historically accurate 
 and perfect. Who says learning history isn't fun.
  
  2. AI - The enemy thinks. A massive improvement on other FPS games is that the enemy can think 
 and figure out ways of providing covering fire while one of the enemies can go over to an MG42 
 previously being used by a Nazi (they are your only enemy) whom you gunned down. Such AI is actually 
 brilliant when fighting (it actually makes the game hard)
  
  3. Ambiance - A worn torn village, a red sky with Stuka bombers bombing, a nighttime forest or 
 a snow covered Red Square of the Stalingrad battle; each map of CoD is unique and every object 
 in it can be used strategically for firing, sniping or for providing covering fire.
  
  4. Graphics - Though compared to present standards CoD has impressive graphics, but considering 
 the other factors, its just a minor adjustment that you'll have to make.
  
  5. Sounds - When the bullets whiz past your character, it is sure to make you flinch. The sounds 
 of every bullet fired, every MG42 being fired, every rifle bieng loaded, every mortar explosion 
 is 100% authentic. When all these mix together in the battle field, with the mortars falling, the 
 MG42s firing, your fellow comrades firing their rifle or cocking it and the sounds of the bullets 
 whizzing past you, it makes a hellish experience for you.
  
  MINUS POINT
  
  Well... I didn't find any but when the game finished, it left me wanting for more.
  
  One more 
 thing is that every rifle shown is authentic (check it out on wikipedia if you don't believe me)
 
  
  So the final statement is if you don't have this game, then SHAME ON YOU!!! HOW CAN YOU EVEN CALL 
 YOURSELF A GAMER IF YOU DON"T HAVE THIS GAME. SO STOP READING THIS REVIEW AND GO BUY THE GAME. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Getix-01
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 6, 2008 9:06 am PT
Review:  Call of duty
  
  Graphics: they may not be much today but back then these graphics could not be beaten as the same 
 with every call of duty game to date. This game started the very famous SHELL SHOCK that was activated 
 when ever a grenade went off near you. LEGENDARY GAME
  
  Game play: we all have some kind of memory of the game play ... awesome. very clever ai all the 
 way through, with very lovable characters too. the game play also features very responsive weapons. 
 and very responses bad guys well they were responsive until killed them all
  
  Multi player: this is where all the fun is at even though there are less people playing online 
 everyday there are still many various modifications you can download to make it extra fun. while 
 playing online you will find your self making very funny friends, so an extra tip install xfire 
 from the disk to speak to these friends. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: yomanlol4
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 31, 2008 3:43 pm PT
Review:  Well, there's a lot to say about this very... fantastic game. The graphics are really good for 
 its time. I love the gameplay because it was very fast-paced, exciting, and even sometimes suspenseful. 
 It is mostly realistic. I like how the player can be American, Russian, or British. There are authentic 
 weapons and vehicles. There are also a great variety of weapons. It has easy controls. The AI are 
 pretty sophisticated for the game's age. I absolutely love the Multiplayer. It is better than the 
 game itself! There are a great variety of maps and modes that the player can do on Multiplayer. 
 TDM, DM, and S&D are some of modes that you will have fun playing There are easy commands. There 
 are a lot of cool glitches that are on almost every map. There are many mods that you can play 
 that are almost as fun as the regular CODMP. Even though the game is pretty old compared to games 
 like COD: World at War, Assassin's Creed, or Crysis, it is a great FPS game! LOVE IT!!!
  
  If you would like to contact me, my GAMESPOT is yomanlol4. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CodeBlack3
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 29, 2008 9:09 am PT
Review:  This game is absolutely incredible, and is a must-have for the PC. The game has a very realistic 
 gameplay compared to even MOH. In the game, you start off as an American soldier named Pvt. Martin 
 in a training camp. After you complete the training camp, where you will learn all of the controls 
 and get the hang of the game, you will advance to the landing, which, in this game, is a parachute 
 landing- at least with the Americans. With the Americans, you will experience city battles, defending 
 cities, fighting in trenches and open field, invading a German base, and, my favorite, a driving 
 mission. 
  Also in the game you are required to play with the British. With them you will, again, experience 
 city battles, defending from tanks (also in the American campaign) , fighting through a base (a 
 dam to be exact) , driving in a truck (my least favorite mission-different from the American drive) , 
 an air base, and invading a German battleship. 
  Finally, you must play as the Russians. You start off invading Stalingrad on boat, to take it back 
 from the Germans. Afterward, you must invade an Apartment, a tank factory, and also rampage through 
 a city in a tank.
  There is one final campaign, where as the Americans you must fend off tanks, as the British, you 
 must eliminate a V-2 rocket base, and as the Russians-you guessed it- capture the city of Berlin, 
 ending the game.
  The gameplay, again, is very realistic, and after explaining the story line you probably understand 
 why. In the end the game plays out very similar to a typical FPS game, but the AI is much more 
 advanced. Also, unlike MOH, the game has you fighting with a squad almost the whole game, rather 
 than just being a lone wolf.
  The graphics of the game is nothing like todays games, but it did come out 5 years ago, so I'll 
 give them credit for that. The sound is beyond what most games do, with incredible music, excellent 
 voice acting, and great sound effects. 
  The game is not as long as RPG games, or some other games, but you are probably looking at 10-12 
 hours your first time through. There are four difficulties, with the first one being very easy, 
 and the final one, it takes 2-3 shots on average to take you down, and there's no medical packs, 
 if that tells you anything. 
  Overall, the game is a great buy, and though you probably won't be able to find it in stores, you 
 can still order it off of eBay or Amazon. 
  For those of you who are family friendly in games, here are some concerns. The game is an FPS game, 
 so there will be guns and violence. But it's war, so that was obvious. There is blood in the game, 
 but it is only visible in close range combat. I'm very surprised this game did not get a language 
 tag, because it has more cussing than some games with less bad language. The game uses the words 
 d***, h***, a**, and b*****d, with one mission having three bad words, and some others having two. 
 Also, the word "bloody" is used in the swear form about four or five times in the British campaign, 
 so watch out for that. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DeathHeart95
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 26, 2008 4:04 pm PT
Review:  Call of Duty back in the olden days. Before any mortar strikes, or fancy devices. All you had was 
 your Thompson, Garand, and a few grenades. And man, Infinity Ward made the most of it.
  
  Let's start with the single player. In my opinion, this is on of the best single player FPS campaigns 
 of all time. Some of these battles are just plain EPIC, like Red Square or Berlin to name a few. 
 The gameplay is flawless. The normal WASD movements, mouse to aim, left click to shoot, and right 
 click to aim down the sight. It is a pretty good length for a FPS campaign... at least if I remember 
 correctly. I lost track of time while playing.
  
  You play through four campaigns, one as an American, one as a British soldier, one as a Russian, 
 and one with one mission from each soldier. Every campaign you fight against the Nazis, but the 
 situations are different enough to keep you coming back for more. Also, each soldier has different 
 weapons, which is a very nice change of pace. The enemies aren't stupid either. They won't stand 
 in front of you like an idiot, they'll shoot. If they're close enough, they'll use melee attacks. 
 These guys are not dumb, and should not be messed with, especially on Veteran.
  
  The graphics are very nice for a game from 2003 as well. People do not look like LEGOs, they look 
 normal. If you throw a grenade into a room and run in afterwards, there will be black marks from 
 the explosion. Not exactly Frostbite engine material, but for a game as old as Call of Duty, it's 
 damn good.
  
  Now for multiplayer, it's a little small (16 players, 8 on each side) , but it still has a nice 
 community going. Sure, they're really good now, but it's still fun. There are your normal online 
 modes, but they do it well. Call of Duty's strong point is single-player (very off for a FPS) but 
 the multiplayer adds plenty of extra playing time.
  
  This is my favorite first person shooter of all time. You can argue all you want for Halo, Doom, 
 and Wolfenstein, but this is just pure gold. I don't care if it takes place in the worn out time 
 of WWII, it is still absolutely incredible. It blows every other first person shooter I've played 
 out of the water. Only game I have ever played that actually deserves a 10.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: conflict_rules
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 13, 2008 10:09 am PT
Review:  call of duty is an awesome game . this is one of the most intense shooters at the time there are 
 so many great missions and the game is just a blast to play from start to finish .
  
  what keeps the game fun is that you play the game as 3 diffirent character frisrt an american soldier 
 then a british one and then you play as a russian and the russian missions really reminds you of 
 the movie enemy at the gates wich is great and the russian missions are probably the best it takes 
 place in the battle of stalingrad and in the battle of berlin .
  
  the graphics were good for its time but nothing special , the audio is better , the soundtrack 
 is awesome and makes the game that much more exciting and soundeffects are great too .
  
  the game is about 8 hours long and there isnt any single player replay value but you wanna play 
 through it again tho and it has a solid multiplayer .
  
  call of duty is still one of the best first person shooters ever made . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vishalkhare
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 10, 2008 3:27 am PT
Review:  this game is a like a life upgrade for the gamers after diablo. the activision people have atlast 
 produced a masterpiece though there are more appealing sequels but if it were not for a hit game 
 there would be no sequel. the story is absolutely simple but felt a bit like MOHAA. But nevertheless 
 this game will absolutely blow your brains out with the action sequence its graphics and the story 
 too. the game features are also good. the variety and range of ammunition and the artillery is absolutely 
 exact to the world wars. also thetank mission is really good. i bought this game not knowing what 
 it would turn out like. Well it turned out to be the best Fps after MOHAA. to review a game these 
 dayz is hectic i dont know what the gamespot people want. wel here goes.... this game is  
 grows on you, solid, rocks, hard to describe but i'm trying well thanks for reading my review and 
 people BUY THIS GAME!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gpvs
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 3, 2008 10:56 am PT
Review:  Call of duty is an excellent historic first person shooter laying the ground work for all other 
 related shooters, Call of duty truly did set a new norm.
  
  The Menus
  The Menus are nicely laid out, without any fussy or unnecessary settings to fiddle around with, 
 controllers are programmable, but the standard layout works excellently with correct layouts for 
 all functionality.
  
  Gameplay
  The gameplay was highly addictive, it is truly difficult to stop once started, the graphics are 
 awesome considering when the game was released (2003) , no wonder it was granted game of the year 
 2003 award, based only on that I would truly recommend Call of Duty.
  
  There are some glitches here and there for example where a soldier stands against a wall, the hand 
 or rifle may stick out on the other side (v1.41) .
  
  In game saving and reloading are easily obtained by utilizing the F5, F9 keys.
  
  Command Voices 
 are clear to understand and should you miss anything press Tab to see new objectives, then find 
 the objective by utilizing the mini-map.
  
  If ever you stumble across a MP44 (Looks like an AK47) , do pick it up, you will not be disappointed, 
 else use the MP40 as ammo are almost always available. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: historickillers
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 26, 2008 8:26 pm PT
Review:  Call of Duty was released in 2003 and my first game, it was awesome. Since it was my first FPS 
 it took me a while but now I can complete it in less than 10 hours. The singleplayer is awesome, 
 I especially like the Russian levels, because back then, I didn't even know anything about the 
 Russian fighting of WWII. It was the first time I heard of Stalingrad or the Elbe River. It is 
 really authentic, with the Battle of Normandy, Battle of the Bulge, a rescue mission in the Alps 
 and Austria, a dambusting job in Germany, Stalingrad, Warsaw, a tank ride near the Elbe River and 
 of course Berlin. It's not the most realistic like Band of Brothers or Enemy at the Gates but it 
 feals like one minute your a recruit going through training, and then your a hero making an impact 
 on the war itself. The multiplayer is superb, the Russian levels are really good for bolt rifles 
 only like Pavlvos and Harbor. The American levels are good for house combat with Thompsons and 
 MP-40's. The British are close quarter maps, using Bren and Sten Guns. And sniper rifles like in 
 Depot. Even though anyone could probabley beat it on Veteran, it's a great game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: orcmonkey3000
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 27, 2008 5:33 pm PT
Review:  In a genre saturated with Medal of Honor: Allied Assault clones, Call of Duty really does very 
 little to set itself apart from the norm, resulting in quite the average WWII shooter, with marginally 
 improved graphics and a little more intensity than the norm. That's not to say that CoD is a bad 
 game; it's not terrible, it's just not earth-shattering either. And one would think -- at least this 
 reviewer would -- that by now someone would realize the WWII shooter genre desperately needs something 
 different to keep the interest of gamers who are moving on to better and brighter horizons.
  
  In a nutshell: if you are obsessed with Medal of Honor: Allied Assault and its horde of infernal 
 clones, then you have nothing to worry about -- go buy this game. The environments and character 
 models, though sporting some slightly better textures and some extra special effects, are basically 
 the same as those featured in every MoH game since the beginning of time. The gameplay is virtually 
 identical to Allied Assault, and if anything, the sound effects are only mildly improved. Enemy 
 AI is slightly better than that of MoH (although not as good as it should be) , and the difficulty 
 level is about the same. If anything, the fighting is more intense in this game than in MoH, making 
 Call of Duty a better choice than MoH if you have been in a bunker since 1990 and have never played 
 a WWII shooter before.
  
  However, if you are like me, a gamer disillusioned with the seemingly endless supply of MoH clones 
 that the industry keeps force-feeding us, you would probably be better off staying away from this 
 one. Yes, the game is well-designed, full-featured, and engaging. And yes, it is cheap, being an 
 older game and all. But as I was playing Call of Duty, I could not shake the feeling that my $10 
 had just been spent on a game I had already played before, only in a different package. So my advice 
 would be to pass on this game and instead go buy a somewhat more innovative shooter, one that passes 
 up the tired World War II scenario in favor of something a little less stale. On the other hand, 
 if you are an MoH addict looking for your next fix, this game might just be what you need. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fatpumba3
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 15, 2008 4:29 am PT
Review:  This game is awesome and i will tell you right here and right now:
  
  Pros: Great feel and atmosphere of a classic game, weapon choice, good uniforms and range of weapons, 
 even if you don't like FPS games you will still enjoy it, good playable allied country variety 
 including the Russians in Stalingrad, good multiplayer.
  
  Cons: Overrated sound, it basically fails to include Italian soldiers like most other WW2 FPS games 
 therefore not completing the Axis side and not adding Axis variety.
  
  Overall this is an excellent game that has both extremely good single player and multiplayer gameplay 
 with great variety of countries that you can play as on the Allied side but there are only Germans 
 that you can play against on the Axis side when they could of included Italian infantry and semi 
 - automatic weapons for the Germans and Russians. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ThePaTstER
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 26, 2008 2:53 am PT
Review:  Ahh Call of Duty, one of the greatest first person shooters. I just got this recently and I thought 
 this was awesome. I bought the expansion pack too, but I will review that later. Call of Duty is 
 a good First Person Shooter for lots of reasons, which I will list in this review.
  
  Gameplay: The Call of Duty Campaign was awesome, I had a ball shooting Nazis in the head. CoD sucks 
 you into the game, making it like you are in the war with your squad fighting off the Nazi War 
 Machine. CoD also looks at all sides of the war, you can play as the Americans, British SAS and 
 the Soviets, which is good because you need variety in a good game. CoD has a lot of weapons too, 
 I like using the B. A. R and the Mosin Nagant Rifle. But a game can't run without some flaws. The 
 game can be quite glitchy at times.
  
  Graphics: The Graphics are really good for its time. The textures are great, the character models 
 run great, all the graphics run great, but there are some lag problems.
  
  Sound: The Sounds mostly make the game quite realistic, especially with surround or headphones. 
 The Game Soundtrack really sets the war theme. I really got nothing else to say about the Sounds, 
 except that they are great.
  
  Multiplayer: Multiplayer is what made CoD popular. The Multiplayer is incredibly fun, with an agora 
 of modes. People who enjoy FPS with Multiplayer, I recommend CoD Multiplayer.
  
  Die Hard FPS fans should definitely buy CoD. You will not be disappointed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: samcerulean
Rating: 3.5
Date: Jun 22, 2008 3:06 pm PT
Review:  This is one of the most redicolous of sequels I've ever seen. Why would you take a game to Modern 
 Walfare, make the most played game ever to go back to the Unpoluar days of Call of Duty in the 
 Second World War. What experiance is this game seriously going to provide that we haven't seen 
 already room the masses of games that have worn this genre to the ground. I've seen the screenshots 
 and it looks like its gone backwards rather than forwards, it looks absoutely arwful, please get 
 rid of the **** and get some people with creativity and common sense rather than the current fools 
 at Infinity Ward!!!. This is a massive dissapointment to the previous game. But not only that we've 
 seen it all before and it look like its gonna be rubbish.
  
  It would have been better to set the next Call of Duty in the future. That proberly would have 
 been quite good. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mivanc
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 20, 2008 6:27 am PT
Review:  I initially played this game 5 years ago when it came out (or the year after, I can't remember for 
 sure) I remember it well and it was one of the best FPS experiences i'd ever played to that point 
 and still today. It was the beginning of a great series. I didn't review games back then and since 
 I'd never played the expansion and recently got my hands on it, I decided to go through the whole 
 game again.
  
  I'll give the graphics a 9. Mind you they are dated for my GT8800 in 2008 but still very good. 
 Graphics aren't everything and for a game with this good gameplay, its a sidenote. Not very gory 
 even with blood turned on. 
  
  
  
  Gameplay was as exciting now as it was back then. Feel as a cog in the war machine rather than 
 a one man army. Still can't rush into a house expecting to take down 10 nazis, need to approach 
 by taking them out one by one from cover or launch a grenade to reduce numbers. Gave is not forgiving 
 at higher levels, need to use the environment. Great action sequences. 9 for gameplay.
  
  Overall a 9 I think. Now on to the expansion ... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xialon
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 15, 2008 7:56 pm PT
Review:  For its time Call of Duty is an amazing first person shooter, and it is now an istant classic among 
 others. Activision and Infinity Ward have seemingly captured the reality of World War 2 like none 
 other. 
  
  The voice aciting, gameplay, sound, weaponary, and AI are all spectacular. This is the game for 
 those that do not have amazing computers. CoD does not burden your computer, but at the same time 
 it gives the player an amazing experiance.
  
  Compared to now the graphics are not top of the line. But who cares? Games that even come out now 
 cannot match the quality of the original Call of Duty.
  
  Also, the expansion pack is an also must have. The developers got that good parts of the game and 
 made it better.
  
  However, the mulitplayer is a hetic frag fest. If you enjoy dying and killing a lot in a quick 
 amount of time then go for it. Yet, if you like a more tactical type of gameplay then just replay 
 the game on the single player campaign. There are more than one way to beat the game. Challenge 
 yourself on another difficulty level. This is a must have. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: marktsy
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jun 13, 2008 5:19 pm PT
Review:  well like i said it is a very very good game, it has exelent graphics, works with vista free multiplayer 
 but the missions are linear same thing defend flank detroy tank fun but only for a while, aslo 
 the game is totally swarming with gliches, you need to restart your computer 1 zillion times to 
 get it right, aadn yes i have an exellent compter but overall i highly recomend this game, only 
 the thing is that dying is very easy to do, and there isa quick save function that i really like, 
 as for the multiplayer it si realisitc but it's non halo ish, on shot kills you, also thjere are 
 no vehicles and the capaing if i hadn't said is realativly long so it's very cheap and definatly 
 worth butying, hoever if you are the kingd of person who likes stable gameplay, the bugs have no 
 fixes, you can try contacting customer support, about it, but i doubt that will help, i haven'nt 
 tried it thoughso iif you wanna face it buy it, don; t don; t but it, aslo graet sound ad game play, 
 the value is also kinda nice 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mega-Tom
Rating: 10
Date: May 31, 2008 1:51 pm PT
Review:  Call of Duty is an old but mighty game in the world of Shooters. There are many other games out 
 there right now that may make gamers to never play this game again, when in some ways I agree with 
 this, but my heart lies with the WWII shooter deep down and I for 1 would choose to play this game 
 over half the newist games out there.
  
  Story is awesome and the gameplay is just as good to. For most of the time you are taking cover, 
 returning fire or even retreating, what ever you may be doing in the game its excellent and extremely 
 fun.
  
  Multiplayer is excellent aswell. The maps and weapons are all well balanced and have there pros 
 and cons. The graphics may not be up to scratch now but still, thats no reason to not play this 
 excellent game.
  
  With a superb single player and just as good / even better multiplayer Call of Duty is a game that 
 should and I really hope never dies in the world of the PC online and offline shooters. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thenewau25
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 26, 2008 11:19 am PT
Review:  i ll make this sort combat is ok guns are nice and reliable ai is ok great sound and great campaign 
 some levels like the german destroyer is cool and leaves the killing idea puts you more solo but 
 is filled with enemies that will ambush you, also youll be able to play with different factions 
 and the game's size is cool and weapon damage too graphs were amazing back then, and now what i 
 didnt like
  
  the russian campaign suck especially than get to the truck objective wich sometiems work some doesnt 
 and the russians that shoot you if you try to adavance slowly god damm it dont shoot me commie 
 comrad and its long freaking campaign but luckecly you get us and british again later on, so i 
 realise that i dont have much to say because i didnt find much bad points or good points eg there 
 isn much of character dialogues to help a story go on! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: _EXCON_
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 13, 2008 3:55 pm PT
Review:  From the word go you are catapulted into 1941 - 1945 in this epic War based game. You take the 
 role of an American Soldier, British Soldier or Russian Comrade as you attempt to fight off the 
 evil of the Axis fources. 
  
  You start off by completing Basic Training and being given a speech by Captain Foley: "Congratulations, 
 maggot! You've just answered the Call of Duty. Your country needs you, son. The Allied Forces are 
 set to invade Europe. We're gonna crash Hitler's party and teach the Fatherland a lesson it will 
 never forget. As part of the Allied Campaign you will see the worst hell imaginable. You will be 
 fighting alongside men willing to give their lives for other people's freedom. Good men will give 
 their lives for you. Your brothers will depend on you as much as you depend on them. There can 
 be no weak link or the chain -- and our bond -- will break."-Captain Foley, American Forces.
  
  After your five miniutes of getting used to the controls, You being your task of defeating 
 Hitler's Army. You parachute into a french farmland and from your vantage point in the air you 
 can see first hand most of the detail in the game. This ranges from the trees and fighting in the 
 distance, to German soliders rallying to meet their makers. As you might notice when you drop in 
 is the sound quality. The air rushing past your ears, shells landing in nearby fields and gunfire 
 from friends and foes alike. Makers of 'Call of Duty', Infinity Ward actually used real WWII weapons 
 in their attempt to make it the most realistic FPS out there.
  
  You then have turns at the other Allied powers throughout the game. This is just a small portion 
 of the vast gameplay that COD (Call of Duty) has to offer. If you have internet access or a decent 
 broadband connection, then the games Muiltyplayer will further advance the value and experience 
 of the game. Also with countless MOD's and other Add-On's, the game will last that small bit longer. 
 Should you want to expand again there is thousands of worldwide clans that play COD regularlly 
 and a great way to meet friends.
  
  I myself think that, although there is countless other FPS and war based games out there, that 
 Call of Duty is one of the best shooters out at the moment. With two other titles in the series 
 (Call of Duty: United Offensive, and Call of Duty 2) and a third on the way the empire will be 
 sure to grow.
  
  Hope that this can be helpful to some of you, Please Leave Feedback.
  Thanks, Crying Hero
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: JParkes
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 13, 2008 10:27 am PT
Review:  Call of Duty: Finest Hour came out after this and to be honest, wasn't half as good. Call of Duty 
 Original for the PC rocks, and If you dont get enough from this game, get United Offensive expansion 
 pack, it rocks. Its weird that an original is the best of the series, I can't say for sure because 
 I havent played COD:4 but its the best in the series from what I've played. Graphics
  About the same as COD:2 Big Red One, not exactly next-gen but impressively close, considering this 
 came out like 5 years ago. 
  Gameplay
  Get a good spec PC and it is perfect. Sound
  Not the best but good enough.
  If I had to give a complaint:
  Not enough weapons, not long 
 enough, but then again theres and expansion pack.
  Bettter then any Medal Of Honour game EA have knocked out.
  
  I cant express how realistic 
 this game is in certain aspects. Like if you panzerfaust a tank, the people inside come out burning 
 alive. I know one man couldn't take on that many germans but thats why I said certain aspects. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Squid523
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 7, 2008 7:50 pm PT
Review:  This first person shooter is the first game made by infinity ward in 2003. In the game you can 
 be... American, Russian and British. Tons of weapons including... Anti-Tank Weapons, M1 A1Carbines, 
 Tompson Machine Guns, FG42s and many more. This game starts in 1942 you are American and your name 
 is Pvt. Martin. Soon you finish being american and you turn into British. Your name is Sgt. Evans. 
 Then the last one you are Russian.
  
  Great Multiplayer fun that can last for ever! There are a few different game types in multiplayer 
 including... team death match were you choose what team you want to be on and just kill the other 
 team. There is a normal death match ( just like team deathmatch except you kill everyone. There 
 are heaps of maps to choose from. some are evan from the single player games!
  
  
  This is my favourite game (so far) .
  
  I'll give this game a big fat 10! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Whosasking99
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 26, 2008 7:05 pm PT
Review:  I had been looking for this title for a fair while, and without looking for it, saw it at my local 
 video store, without hesitation, I bought it... and let me tell you, its brilliant.
  
  In Call Of Duty, you take the role of an American, English and Soviet soldier in 3 different campaigns, 
 using a variety of weapons to ultimately defeat the Nazi war machine (what else?!) . But its how 
 this game is presented that sets it apart from the dozens of other WW2 FPS around on the market. 
 i considered myself a pretty good player of these games till I played this title, I now know there 
 is a lot of room for improvement on my part to be honest.
  The Hard difficulty is just right to make the game last you for a fair while, which is really good 
 value.
  
  
  My biggest complaint in with this title however, is the fact that the only way you can select a 
 mission to play, is to go into the load menu, and select a previous saved game which wouldnt be 
 so bad, but you cant change the difficulty, so if your playing this game for the first time, i 
 reccomend playing it on the Hard difficulty, that will mean that you will be able to get more replay 
 value out of the game... But hey, thats just my personal opinion on what to do.
  
  Pros: Awesome Graphics for its time, sound puts you in the midst of the battle, authentic weapons, 
 multiplayer is good fun
  
  Cons: No real select a mission menu, a number of hackers in multiplayer, but no real fault of the 
 developers. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: titanic100
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 26, 2008 6:59 am PT
Review:  Call of duty Call of duty has got to be the best computer shooter game it is based on wars that 
 have been fought e. g. would war one and two. 
  
  The game play you are a soldier fighting the Germans in war and you are a British solider fighting 
 them and trying to stop the war, 
  
  The graphic on this game are good but they could be better in some areas you can see that teh bullet 
 has killed the solider that you have just shot and you can watch him fall to the ground and then 
 you can go up to the body and pick up his gun and ammo, 
  
  
  The sound quality is very good and the weapons sounds are good, when you fire a gun off you can 
 hear the bolt firing the bullet out of the barrel. 
  
  My suggestion is if you really like the old fashioned weapons and wars I would buy this game and 
 play it over again and I would have every setting on high to get the best quality of sound and 
 graphics. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Carl_Pinches
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 24, 2008 7:22 am PT
Review:  Call of Duty is one of the greatest World War II shooters of all time, with it's intense firefights 
 and exciting gameplay that keeps that player wanting for more.
  
  The atmosphere of Call of Duty certainly brings any player right to center of the action. One of 
 the traits of this games is the variety of missions like; shooting inside a vehicle while being 
 chased by Natzis, moving from room to room inside a building trying to fend of the attackers, charging 
 on the fields while being strafed by enemy planes, defending a bridge on both sides, and plenty 
 more. The missions is not repetitive meaning every part is unique, and the game keeps you moving 
 from place to place so you can't get stuck in an area for too long.
  
  Graphics is pretty clear and well detailed, expect all the chaos brought to life by the amazing 
 design. Intense battles have never been so fun to watch and sometimes you will forget what you 
 are doing and just watch everything go up in smoke.
  
  The game is a pure shooter with simple objectives that require less actions and more fighting. 
 Some of the moments that you can't help but notice are all the historical events that is currently 
 happening all around you, in which gives you a feel that you are part of a movie. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PerfectJones
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 15, 2008 1:01 pm PT
Review:  WWII games are way too common these days. How many games do we have to play/buy to get enough of 
 it? 
  
  Perhaps we could blame games like CoD for establishing this trend. 
  
  CoD came out after MOHAA, a great game with some issues. It became clear after the release of its 
 expansions that many of these issues would remain. 
  CoD came out as a polished WWII experience that took the best moments of MOHAA and made them better.
 
  
  CoD is, first, a more balanced game. Gone are the unrealistic features of carrying around 5 rifles, 
 a dozen grenades, and more ammo than you cared to waste your time counting. Gone is constant rifling 
 from the hip. This time you aim down the sights when you desire precise aim. And yes, you only 
 can carry a maximum of two rifles.
  
  Perhaps the best feature of CoD (and the most realistic aspect of it) is that you are usually never 
 fighting alone. Not only that but the people you fight with/against are good shots! When you are 
 in a firefight, it feels exciting and tense. You exchange shots, duck, lean out, take aim and shoot. 
 You reload and watch the battle rage on. If you don't hurry up and get back in the skirmish might 
 end favorably or unfortunately. So hurry!
  
  These battles are done so well that each one is exciting. This is War FPS at its finest.
  
 
  CoD also has multiplayer that, when they're aren't hackers cheating all over the place, is quite 
 fun and fresh. The panzerfaust is a bit overkill and the FG42 may be too awesome but hey if you 
 think these weapons unbalance things you can just turn them off. Most likely though you'll leave 
 them on just for laughs and kicks.
  
  CoD fails though in the fact that you never grow that attached to your character or the people 
 you're fighting with. This happens because you switch armies. One moment you're an American airborne 
 soldier, the next you're a British soldier. After that you're a nameless Russian soldier. A nameless 
 Russian soldier who is rushed into a battle with ammo but no guns. Than you switch around even 
 more. Why?
  
  CoD though is totally worth it. If you see it in the bargain bin you owe it to yourself to pick 
 it up (if these are you're kind of games) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Yorro
Rating: 9.3
Date: Mar 5, 2008 3:39 am PT
Review:  Call of Duty is one of the greatest World War II shooters of all time, with it's intense firefights 
 and exciting gameplay that keeps that player wanting for more.
  
  The atmosphere of Call of Duty certainly brings any player right to center of the action. One of 
 the traits of this games is the variety of missions like; shooting inside a vehicle while being 
 chased by Natzis, moving from room to room inside a building trying to fend of the attackers, charging 
 on the fields while being strafed by enemy planes, defending a bridge on both sides, and plenty 
 more. The missions is not repetitive meaning every part is unique, and the game keeps you moving 
 from place to place so you can't get stuck in an area for too long.
  
  Graphics is pretty clear and well detailed, expect all the chaos brought to life by the amazing 
 design. Intense battles have never been so fun to watch and sometimes you will forget what you 
 are doing and just watch everything go up in smoke.
  
  The game is a pure shooter with simple objectives that require less actions and more fighting. 
 Some of the moments that you can't help but notice are all the historical events that is currently 
 happening all around you, in which gives you a feel that you are part of a movie.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: aschuhart
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 2, 2008 1:38 am PT
Review:  I remember thinking that Call of Duty would just be another Medal of Honor game that looked nothing 
 more like an expansion pack but it really turned out to be it's own game. Great graphics mixed 
 with great sound really helped immerse you into the WWII atmosphere. The historical settings and 
 enviroments for the games battles are just beautiful to look at and done very well. The missions 
 were also done quite well with a nice variety of goals and achievements. There are a lot of similarites 
 between this game and the Medal of Honor series but it's far from being clone and the fact they 
 both have a lot in common isn't a bad thing either. So if by some reason you haven't played this 
 game, then please do yourself a favor and check it out. It is a very good game that won't leave 
 you feeling disappointed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: biggest_loser
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 22, 2008 2:51 pm PT
Review:  Medal of Honour: AA was one of the finest shooters to grace the PC. Through its perfect scripting, 
 intelligent AI, and level design it became an instant classic. Twenty of the people who worked 
 on that game have created a familiar but engaging title that may well be Allied Assaults successor. 
 
  
  There are instant similarities between both titles. The onscreen interface, and mechanics are virtually 
 the same but Call of Duty however, distinguishes itself by including three separate nationalities. 
 So rather than just taking on the role of just an American soldier you will also fight from the 
 eyes of the British and Russians as well. Not only do you receive different weaponry but also the 
 approach to missions feels unique. The Americans blast their way through (naturally) , the British 
 are about sabotage and the Russian levels are comprised of large-scale battles. 
  
  Running on the Quake 3 engine, the game looks and sounds wonderful. Animations and explosions are 
 simply superb, while you can almost feel the textures of the crumbling cities. The sound is equally 
 impressive adding both tension and chaos to every shootout. 
  
  This is a level of intensity that no other shooter has provided. As bullets whiz past you, and 
 shells go off, the tension increases and you really feel as though this is a war zone. Voice acting 
 is strong, even though the Russians were speaking in English. 
  
  It is a straight shooter but the excitement is always there. You'll be firing from the back of 
 a truck, attempting to hold off German tanks, or struggling to keep alive through an occupied city. 
 Objectives are fairly simple and easy, requiring you to blow up something, steal a document or 
 just survive for a certain amount of time. The main obstacles are your opponents who are perhaps 
 the smartest ever seen in a videogame. They will duck for cover shoot around corners, run away 
 from grenades and in some cases chuck them back! The game tends to lead you into a false sense 
 of security. You'll wander down the passageway of a bunker, only to be capped by a Kraut from around 
 the corner. On the easiest setting the game is a breeze, set it on the highest difficulty setting 
 and the difference is instantly recognisable with enemies becoming almost inhuman with their accuracy. 
 By sticking to both the quick saves and keeping the game on the Veteran difficulty setting you'll 
 find COD has an extended lifespan. Occasionally the game lapses auto save making the gap between 
 each one quite large. This was most common while playing the British campaign and made things more 
 frustrated then it needed to be. 
  
  While the game is obviously linear it is so enjoyable all the same. You follow the compass from 
 objective to objective but it is always through the most deadly and exciting path. Take the very 
 first Russian level for example. You start off on a boat with your fellow comrades as the commanding 
 officers belt out inspiring speeches and warn that if you do retreat you will be shoot. The planes 
 buzz over raining down fire, sending everyone into a panic. When the boat pulls up onto the beach 
 you miss out on receiving a gun and are just left with bullets. Dodging enemy fire, you must reach 
 a sniper who gets you to run from cover to cover as bate for the Germans. The combination of intelligent 
 scripting, action and tension all combine to offer some of the most exhilarating game play your 
 likely to see. You will literally be on the edge of your seat in almost every mission. Running 
 down corridors has never been so deadly, intense or this much fun. Aiding you in these assaults 
 you receive the usual assortment of weaponry found in FPS, though each one is distinctly matched 
 to the nationality your playing as. There is an added depth in that you can only carry one main 
 weapon, as well as a sidearm and grenades. There are also numerous opportunities to use MG42 emplacements 
 as well as flak cannons for taking down tanks. Much like Allied Assault there are also several 
 missions where you ride in the back of a truck gunning down Krauts at breakneck speeds. These sections 
 are a lot of fun, occasionally frustrating, but never boring. Later on in the game there is even 
 an opportunity to command a Russian tank!
  
  If you're willing to dismiss this as yet another WW2 shooter, don't! Through the technical prowess 
 of the Quake 3 engine Call of Duty comes to life like no other war game has. Its breathtaking AI, 
 exciting missions and intense action perfect it. Without a doubt this is a very strong contender 
 for 'Game of the Year'. A shooter? Yes, but so beautifully designed and so wonderfully exhilarating 
 that you must own it. 
  
  
  For: 
  
  + Intense and energetic game play
  
  + Tremendous reworking of an old engine.
  
  + Excellent AI
  
  
  Against: 
  
  No real 
 introduction for each nationality. 
  
  Some missions are a little frustrating. 
  
  
  Verdict:
  
  Call of Duty is a familiar by an intense and tremendously enjoyable WW2 game, not 
 to be missed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: scarface46
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 21, 2008 4:14 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay: 8
  Graphics: 8
  Sound: 10
  Value: 7
  Tilt: 9
  ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  Call of Duty 1 is the first of its incredible series. Not like other WWII games, Call of Duty 
 let's you play not only as a United States soldier but also a United Kingdom and Russian soldier. 
 There are about 26 levels that you will explore in total, the Russian campaign being the longest 
 of the three. The last three levels you play as each country, showing the last perspectives of 
 the war as they enter Germany and end the war. Moreover, there are many weapons to use, including, 
 M1A1 Carbine and a Sten. You can only hold two rifles, one pistol, and a couple grenades. Throughout 
 the game you will battle against thousands of Nazi Germans with your team. You cannot order your 
 teammates or anything but they still are helpful. COD is not at all a tactical shooter as it is 
 more like a run and gun for most parts. The only tactical parts are when you snipe, which in my 
 opinion is very enjoyable. Furthermore, the sound effects blew me away for a 2003 game. The sound 
 of your gun firing to the bombs being dropped from enemy planes is breath-taking. The voice overs 
 are amazing as well and also you will hear the German's speak in their own language which is a 
 great touch as most games usually have the Germans speak in English. The graphics are not amazing 
 but is still great for its time. Overall, Call of Duty is the first of the series and it sure is 
 a superb game that shoot not be missed by any FPS fans. It may not have next-gen graphics and sound 
 effects, but it still is an outstanding game still today. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CoD_killeru
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 13, 2008 1:23 pm PT
Review:  What Activision think when they did this game. Probably about a good World War 2 game, but they 
 did much more of this. They created a game who opens the gate to the "CALL OF DUTY" series. The 
 game is better than his predecessor (not in this series) : Medal of Honor - Allied Assault, who 
 is a good game for the time when was made.
  The CoD shows you new battlefields, new campaigns, and here, you can aim or change your weapon. 
 In MoHAA you can't do this.
  
  In the game you will find more action than anywhere: the day before the D-Day, secure of St. Mere 
 Eglise, rescue Brittish officers from the Alps, the cross of Oder River to BERLIN.
  The training is not very amazing (is not like CoD2, where you kill Germans, destroy a Panzerwerfer...) . 
 But the rest of the campaigns are pure revolutionary. 
  
  In this time, this game is considered old, but still a good game. You should buy it and play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mircea_calarasu
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 11, 2008 1:28 pm PT
Review:  IT IS SIMPLY Medal OF Honor Allied Assault should have been, even 10 times better!! The game really 
 puts in the shoes of a world war 2 warrior, thanks to its impressive sound, noble engine Quake 
 III, thought the engine is old, it is polished and infinity ward really pushed the limits of this 
 engine! There are lots of memorable missions in the game, all of them are very spectacular and 
 memorable! The are lots of cinamatics and the environment is really world war 2 like. Unlike Medal 
 OF Honor Alied Assault, where is unreal as most of the time you are like defeating 50% of the germans, 
 in Call OF Duty, you will have fellow team mates by your sides which adds realism. Ai is not that 
 advanced, but still nicely done. The sound is superb!! It is like you have to realy on sound for 
 your own safety.
  
  Call Of Duty really pits players on the eyes of a WW2 warrior. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: phantomphan1990
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 7, 2008 9:09 am PT
Review:  I've always been a sucker for historic games, especially during the World War I or II era. So when 
 Call of Duty came round, I seized the chance and was happily immersed in the often chaotic world 
 that was WWII combat fighting for a great number of hours. Reality didn't sink in until I finished 
 the game a day later and even then, my head was ringing with the sound of the German's notorious 
 MG42s and the barking of my fellow squad member's orders. 
  
  CoD was historically pleasing and the crisp visuals made the experience aesthetically pleasing. 
 The squad-based combat was a great feature, lending more authenticity to the game and the option 
 of taking part in battles as one of the three Allies lent variety to the game. My favourite levels 
 was with the Russians; one rarely sees their side of the story in WWII games so the missions were 
 extremely interesting (and one of the more difficult ones) .
  
  Great game with excellent visuals and sound; the authenticity of the chaotic WWII fighting was 
 fantastic. I'm playing it for the third time running, definitely addicting. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Loucas77
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 7, 2008 2:33 am PT
Review:  You must try it if you are looking for an FPS game. Easy controls not so easy game, great balance 
 of the two. Good graphics without needing too much of your graphics card, the sound FX's are great, 
 lots of weapons that are very realistic as is shooting aiming and explosions amongst other things; 
 take part in the war as part of a group of soldiers that provide you with support as you can provide 
 support for them; also you will find your self's saying "that must have been like hell for the 
 real soldiers involved in these real battles of the WWII". You could actually if you pay attention 
 on the titles and debriefing of each battle learn about the WWII dates and details of these battles. 
 In all is a Great game and I would easily recommend it with no problem atoll for gamers looking 
 for an FPS or Historic FPS legendary game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: king_loei
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 23, 2007 1:53 pm PT
Review:  
  
  Beautifully done. 
  There are few words to describe this game that really compliment it as well as it should. But I'll 
 try anyways.
  
  Graphics.
  The graphics are excellent. Very well done. Attention to detail is good, and bullet decals stay 
 long enough that you're gone by the time they disappear. Bodies die in set positions, which can 
 lead to some comical moments. At one point, I walked into a building only to find a line of about 
 5-6 germans all dead in the same position, all in a row, each exactly the same.
  That was weird.
  All in all the graphics are nice. The guns are well done, and are extremely 
 convincing.
  
  The sounds are nice. Fighting in the background gets old after awhile because it's the same sounds 
 on loop, but that doesn't really detract from the game at all. You actually don't notice until 
 you think about it.
  Guns sound good. Weapons fire and reload realistically and the voice acting is better then the 
 usual WW2 game. Unlike other war games I can think of, the voice acting isn't cheesy, or over the 
 top, in fact it's right were you'd want it. It's good.
  
  It's an incredibly easy to learn game, and doesn't take long to master, but if you feel like a 
 real challenge, you can up the difficulty setting to it's highest (Veteran mode) , where you'll 
 be screwed over by the crack-shot Germans, who happen to be using very smart A. I. The A. I. ducks, 
 crouches, and runs away from grenades. It also hides behind objects and retreats. The A. I. is actually 
 better then expected. Not like Allied Assault A. I. GRANTED, Allied Assault was made a couple years 
 ago, but this is still a huge improvement in FPS's, and in the WW2 genre itself.
  
  Gameplay is amazing. The CoD manages a LOT of dramatic moments where you're sitting there going 
I did that!" to absolutely no one in particular. It's a deep game, though fairly linear. Theres 
 almost no choice of paths, and it's all laid out for you. Strangly enough, most of the levels are 
 so good, you won't mind playing them again and again! The replay value is excellent, and even if 
 you get bored of singleplayer, CoD offers a great multiplayer system, if only a few maps. The physics 
 aren't like Half-life, and you can hide behind small wooden crates for protection from grenades, 
 but theres enough explosions going on around you that you're more concerned with getting to cover 
 then watching splinters fly towars your head.
  
  All in all, it's an amazing game worth getting, even if you're not that big a fan of FPS's. 
 
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Twisted14
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 13, 2007 8:52 pm PT
Review:  Call of Duty is the first in the series of 3 WW2 First Person Shooters. The 4th game in the series 
 is set in Modern Day. There are a large amount of WW2 shooters out there and this would have to 
 be the best.
  
  This game was made in 2003 and for it's time the graphics are nice. The character models all look 
 good and the weapons look impressive. The surroundings are beautiful, highly detailed and look 
 just like they would in real-life.
  
  The audio is great, footsteps change sound when you step on the different surfaces and sound good. 
 Weapons all sound realistic and are satisfying to use. Explosions are loud and sound devastating. 
 Standing still and listening to gunfire and explosions in the background is also a nice touch.
 
  
  The game's battles are very intense and it's a great feeling to know that you aren't fighting alone. 
 However, sometimes you are forced to go through an entire level alone. But this doesn't happen 
 very often. You must complete 6 or 7 missions per country that you fight for, which are America, 
 Britain and Russia. This totals in more than 20 missions. The game will take about 10 hours to 
 get through even on the easiest difficulty setting as some of the missions can be hard and you 
 need to try them many times tog et them right. But then you can try passing the game on the harder 
 difficulties especially veteran. This is the hardest of them and puts up a great challenge.
  
  It was made 4 years ago and many more WW2 shooters have been made including the next games 
 in the series, but this game still stands strong as one of the best World-War 2 shooters ever. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zakld
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 12, 2007 4:55 pm PT
Review:  Well, I'm writing this and it's been quite a while after I've played it. To be perfectly honest, 
 so many good games have been made on this topic that I've mixed them all up and don't know which 
 one this is. These games are all linear but still very well done and I couldp lay them no matter 
 how many of them they make. 
  
  So, I won't be specific and I will mark / rank all of the games on of this genre with the same 
 mark of 9.0 as I think they are all incredible but it is really hard to have a game worth 10 on 
 this usbject matter as long as they are linear. 
  
  The only game that will get 9.5 will be Brother in Arms: Earned in Blood 
  
  
  
  My marking 
 system is as follows:
  
  10 - Absolute Legend
  9 - Must Be Played
  8 - Excellent and Worth Your Time
  7 - Worth playing if you have nothing else to play
  6 - 
 worh playing if you have nothing to play and are incredbly bored and have not got absolutely anything 
 else to do. (Barely playable/enjoyable) . 
  
  I don't give marks 1-5 as if a game starts sucking I don't finish it, so I only review the games 
 that are barely playable (6) to the absolutely amazingly incredible ones (10)
  
  I will also probably keep my reviews short as I don't like discovering too much about the gameplay. 
 I only like to give my quick opinion and get on with life.
  
  Best Wishes to everyone
  
  Zak 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mark_webster_87
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 28, 2007 6:07 am PT
Review:  After playing and enjoying Medal of Honor Allied Assault, I thought it could not be beaten as the 
 top dog in the WW II FPS genre but guess I was wrong and I've never been so happy to be wrong. 
 
  
  Call of Duty takes world war two games to the next level and it starts with the graphics which 
 are much superior to MOH: AA from the levels to the characters. After being taught so much about 
 war and how horrible it was, I can't believe that war could look so good in a game.
  
  The game is just as impressive in the sound department with fantastic noises from the bullets, 
 mortars and the characters who have been given a great voice over job by the actors hired.
  
  The gameplay is pretty standard but with some great shell shock effects when near by explosions 
 catch you and some wonderful battles make the game very addicted. The AI is decent for the most 
 part but is probably the biggest letdown, in terms of your team mates who aren't clever and the 
 AI can sometimes leave themselves exposed but the ability for them to toss back your grenades is 
 a big plus.
  
  The game has a solid online experience which gives you plenty to do, once you complete, what is 
 a fairly long and not too easy, single player campaign. Also if like me, you had plenty of fun 
 with the single player, it can make you come back to do it all over again several times which along 
 with all the other good features, makes Call of Duty a must buy for any FPS fan. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: totalgridlock
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 29, 2007 6:02 am PT
Review:  The Call of Duty line of games should need little introduction, three shining pinnacles of intense 
 first-person World War II action, and latterly a fresh taste of modern combat. The original Call 
 of Duty, where it all began back in 2003, was the first title developed by Infinity Ward  an offshoot 
 group of 2015 Inc. developers who had previously worked on another well-known (and well-received) 
 WWII video game, Medal of Honor: Allied Assault. Call of Duty takes a similar approach and setting 
 to that game, polishing and improving as necessary.
  
  The story told in Call of Duty's single-player campaign is a familiar one. Alternatingly told from 
 the viewpoints of American, British and Soviet soldiers, your World War II campaign takes you across 
 Europe on a variety of missions, from covert infiltrations to high-speed vehicle chases to all-out 
 assaults on defended positions. There's tanks too. While historical accuracy within the game falls 
 mainly into the 'close enough' category, there is a definite cinematic quality to the game. Many 
 set pieces and environments invoke references to every WWII movie or show you've ever seen. From 
 Saving Private Ryan, Band of Brothers and Enemy at the Gates to Stalingrad, Cross of Iron and The 
 Longest Day  there is a sense of epic grandeur rarely found in games. The developers could be 
 accused of wearing their influences on their sleeves, but I say well done.
  
  I could review the gameplay of Call of Duty in a single word if I was so inclined: fun. Gameplay 
 is faster paced and closer to the 'run-and-gun' style of play than many other WWII first-person 
 shooters, many of which favour a more strategic approach. The ability to micro-manage a squad of 
 soldiers is replaced by some fantastic ally (and enemy) AI. These fellows will take cover, provide 
 covering fire, assault positions  all without doing something stupid like getting in the way of 
 your perfect shot or getting themselves blown up running in front of a tank. Because it is a no-nonsense 
 shooter rather than a tactical one, gameplay is slick, quick and exhilarating. There isn't an exceptional 
 amount of brains required  most missions are fairly straightfoward, with your objectives (of which 
 there are often many) appearing on a handy compass. Walk in the direction of the shiny little logo 
 and kill everything in your path with a variety of historically-accurate weapons including Lugers, 
 Garands, MP-40s and the annoyingly unreliable Panzerfaust. Actually, it's kind of dumb, but what 
 first-person shooter isn't? The missions and maps are quite varied, which is a relief. Aside from 
 the standard style of 'on-foot' gameplay, there's a fantastic set of speedy vehicle levels which 
 are, simply put, awesome fun. And everyone loves driving tanks, don't they?
  
  Obviously, there is the above-mentioned three-part single-player game to blast through, but where 
 the continuing success and appeal of Call of Duty lies is in its many multi-player options. In 
 addition to multi-player standards such as deathmatch, team deathmatch and 'retrieval' (a. k. a. 
 capture the flag) , Call of Duty has a 'search and destroy' mode (think bomb defusal) and 'behind 
 enemy lines' (survive as long as possible) . Such a wealth of options combined with slick, exciting 
 gameplay means Call of Duty multi-player remains a great choice even in the face of several sequels 
 and many other first-person shooters.
  
  Call of Duty runs on the Quake III engine, somewhat antiquated now but holding up surprisingly 
 well. There's no crate-flinging physics, over-the-top explosions or fancy particle weather effects 
  and it's a shame the environments feel quite static (compared to more modern games) because of 
 it. However, the environments themselves are very well constructed  snowy forests, dank sewers, 
 destroyed cities  all looking both realistic and interesting. Character models are fairly well 
 detailed too, and thankfully not all carbon-copy.
  
  Sound effects in Call of Duty are pretty good. Weapon and vehicle sounds are, as far as I can tell, 
 accurate and the voice acting is above-par. There's some well-known names in the voice cast: Jason 
 Statham and Giovanni Ribisi will be familiar sounds, as will the talents of voice actor Steven 
 Blum (who has appeared in many, many games and television shows) . The music is good, adhering to 
 the 'less is more' school of thought but appropriate and mostly unobtrusive. On a note, the music 
 in Call of Duty was composed by the same composer (Michael Giacchino) as not only the Medal of 
 Honor games, but major motion pictures such as The Incredibles, Ratatouille and Mission: Impossible 
 III. Nice pedigree.
  
  I'd recommend Call of Duty in a heartbeat, but if you are a fan of long, story-driven single-player 
 campaigns, you may be a touch disappointed with the offering on show. The campaign should run about 
 five hours in length, not the longest single-player game around but this is more than made up for 
 by the number of hours the multi-player game will suck out of you. Extension and expansion to the 
 game is provided by an official expansion pack (United Offensive) and a number of mods, customisations 
 and countless map packs.
  
  Overall, Call of Duty is an excellent World War II first-person shooter in a somewhat over-saturated 
 genre. Definitely for fans of shooters, war games in general and anyone who likes a good multi-player 
 bash. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: red_raven01
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 22, 2007 1:56 am PT
Review:  Players begin the game as an infantryman armed with a pistol and grenades, with additional weapons 
 in the form of rifles, machine guns, and bazookas earned during their tour of duty. A total of 
 24 missions are available, spread across three separate campaigns. Players will experience the 
 war through American, British, and Russian points of view, allowing them to step into the roles 
 of three soldiers on the front lines who must endure three different operations. Vehicles such 
 as tanks, jeeps, and more can also be commandeered for the war effort.
  
  From the American perspective, players will take part in the events leading to the D-Day Invasion 
 after first being dropped behind enemy lines. The British campaign involves the assault on Pegasus 
 Bridge, while the Battle of Stalingrad serves as the backdrop for the Russian story line. The one 
 constant in each campaign is that players will not be alone in their missions, becoming part of 
 a squad that fights together as a team, providing cover fire, dragging wounded comrades to safety, 
 sabotaging key installations, and offering each other support. Battles will take place within towns, 
 forests, POW camps, and more, with mortar fire, enemy snipers, and other hazards lurking at every 
 corner. Call of Duty uses an enhanced version of the Quake III engine, previously implemented in 
 Activision's own Return to Castle Wolfenstein.
  
  Call of Duty is similar in theme and gameplay to Medal of Honor: Allied Assault, and like the earlier 
 game includes various single player campaigns and missions. However, unlike Medal of Honor, the 
 war is seen not just from the viewpoint of an American soldier but from the viewpoint of British, 
 American and Soviet soldiers - players take the perspective of a soldier by the name of Pvt. Martin 
 of the U. S. 101st Airborne Division, Sgt. Jack Evans in the British 6th Airborne Division and Special 
 Operations Executive, and Sgt. Alexei Ivanovich Voronin in the 13th Guards Rifle Division.
  
  The game is somewhat unique in that throughout the single-player mode, the player is joined 
 by computer-controlled allies who range in quantity from two (in some of the British missions) 
 to an entire regiment of tanks (in the Russian missions) . The computer-controlled actors will often 
 lay down covering fire for the actual player as well as contribute helpful dialogue. They also 
 further the game's goal of providing a truly immersive and realistic experience; that is, soldiers 
 in World War II nearly always were part of a larger group, as opposed to the "lone wolf" that is 
 often seen in video games.
  
  The American campaign begins with Pvt. Martin parachuting into France as a pathfinder of the 101st 
 Airborne Division on D-Day for the Battle of Normandy, which echoes of the HBO miniseries Band 
 of Brothers. The series continues with a night assault on the town of Sainte-Mre-glise, a defense 
 of the town against a counter attack by German Panzer units, the Brcourt Manor Assault, two special 
 missions to rescue captured British officers, and ends with fighting for control of bunkers around 
 Bastogne.
  
  The British campaign begins with Sgt. Jack Evans of the British 6th Airborne Division, assisting 
 in the capturing of Pegasus Bridge, as seen in The Longest Day, sabotage the German battleship 
 Tirpitz and ends with a sabotage mission of a V-2 rocket base. Evans also helps sabotage anti-air 
 defenses around the Eder Dam, in preparation for a follow up Dambusters Raid (Operation Chastise) .
 
  
  The Soviet campaign begins with material based on the Battle of Stalingrad including a recreation 
 of the battle for Pavlov's House. The material based on the Battle of Stalingrad is similar to 
 scenes in the movie Enemy at the Gates. The Soviet campaign continues with material simulating 
 close combat in an underground sewer system, followed by a role as a tank commander. The Soviet 
 campaign ends as an infantry soldier in Berlin with the raising of the Soviet flag above the ruins 
 of the Reichstag.
  
  Famous actors like Jason Statham and Giovanni Ribisi, as well as voice actor Steven Blum, contributed 
 to this game with their voices in the roles of Sgt. Waters (British) , Pvt. Elder (American) and 
 Cpt. Foley (American) , respectively. Michael Giacchino, who previously worked on the Medal of Honor 
 franchise, composed the soundtrack.
  
  Call of Duty also has a feature called "Shellshock" (not to be confused with the psychological 
 condition of the same name) , which when the player is close to an explosion, his vision is blurred, 
 time moves slower, and sound is muffled, similar to some scenes in the movie Saving Private Ryan.
 
  
  Call of Duty was featured on the third season of the US version of The Office, in an episode called 
 The Coup, as a "team building exercise".
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: brianack96
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 17, 2007 9:44 am PT
Review:  Call of duty was a pretty good game. It had a solid story mode and a great multi player. The graphics 
 are great for a 2003 game. This game is probaly worth buying. The single player needs strategy 
 if you are not playing on easy. Overall if you are a fan of strategy first person shooters this 
 game is for you. But if you have vista DO NOT GET THIS GAME!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! Vista may 
 play video games wel but not this one. The graphics are horrible, the game is slow, and it freezes. 
 dang dang dang i i i i i i i i i i i i ii i i i i i ii i i i ii i i ii 
::::::

::::::
UserName: francyx
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 13, 2007 9:16 pm PT
Review:  Call Of Duty IV has everything you want from a shooter game
  and just makes it look amazing. the time actually shows, all the hard work and dedication, a lot 
 of games promises life like scenarios, but this one delivers 
  every inch just gets you wanting to play more and more. loved it 5 stars.
  i can't wait until 
 they come out with call of duty 6, by then your gonna be able to inside the game LOL.
  
  I only review games that i really like and this happens to be one of them hope y'all like my review.
 
  
  100 words commeeee on im doneeeee 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nakazoto
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 10, 2007 8:01 am PT
Review:  Let me preface this by saying I usually don't like World War 2 shooters. I found Wolfenstein mildly 
 entertaining but nowhere near as good as the ratings it received. Having said that, I can say with 
 confidence that Call Of Duty is not like any other World War 2 shooter I've played. It's downright 
 awesome! I have been getting hyped up about Call Of Duty 4 and since my computer needs an upgrade 
 before I can play CoD 4 I decided to give the original CoD a shot. 
  
  I was expecting more of the same boring game play mixed with the same boring guns that you get 
 from most WW2 shooters. However, the game play is anything but boring. The first mission of the 
 game starts out at night with you sneaking up and clocking a guy who's peeing on a tree, killing 
 two more men and setting up a beacon. Easy, boring. Then, all hell breaks loose. Squad mates are 
 parachuting in, there are tracer rounds being fired into the sky, men are set up in the building 
 across the field that you're in, there's bullets everywhere, things are blowing up, people are 
 shouting and you're just trying to get to cover. Certainly one of the most intense openings to 
 a game I've ever played. Then I expected it to die off and fall into a boring routine, but it never 
 did. The game just stayed intense and crazy the entire time.
  
  From a design standpoint the game is still awesome today. The maps are huge and provide plenty 
 of variety. You will be storming buildings and houses with your Submachine Gun and perching yourself 
 on a hill to snipe enemies from several hundred meters out. The graphics, while definitely showing 
 there age, are still good enough to get the job done, and done well. The sounds are great as well 
 with nice loud gunfire and explosions all the way down to the phenomenal voice acting from stars 
 like Jason Statham and Giovanni Ribisi. Top that with the intense game play and some of the best 
 iron-sights designed and you have a shooter that is almost without fault. I say almost because 
 the only fault I can come up with is that the crosshair, health bar, ammo counter, and compass 
 detract from the realism and immersion. These things are easily remedied though. In the command 
 console just type "cg_crosshairalpha 0" and "cg_hudalpha 0" and all the remains on your screen 
 is a little star in the bottom left corner that tells you where your next objective is and some 
 little green dots to tell you where your squad mates are. This clears up the screen beautifully 
 and in a very unobtrusive way keeps you form getting too lost in the awesome landscapes.
  
  In short, this game is a must have for any shooter fan. It's got all the right ingredients and 
 uses them in all the right ways. A must have!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: syorks1
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 1, 2007 7:49 pm PT
Review:  Call of Duty is a great game that should be picked up by anyone who is a fan of WWII or First-Person-Shooters 
 cuz this game is one of the best. You play the game as three different soldiers from America, Britain, 
 and Russia. The difference between this game and many other shooters is that u rarely fight alone. 
 On most levels u will have at least one ally with u and sometimes it seems there r hundreds with 
 u. The Russian campaign is the most fun and puts the most soldiers on screen at once. The sound 
 and graphics r both pretty good and the story is great. This is definitely a game that most people 
 should buy and play. The second Russian level is one of the funnest WWII levels I have ever played. 
 Believe the hype cuz this game is great. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wado-karate
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 21, 2007 2:32 pm PT
Review:  I first heard of this game from a friend. I played it and just loved it. You play as three exciting 
 military forces, USA, British, and the Russains. And the saying for this game, no one fights alone, 
 is true you always have a man by your side. Its graphics are quite good, the sounds are amazing, 
 and the campagin is quite long and engaging. The multiplayer is also great. Plenty of servers and 
 competion. With alot of maps of actual battles. All of this using weapons that look and feel real. 
 I would recommend this game to anyone who likes World War 2 shooters or just a good solid first 
 person short. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sexlexia2000
Rating: 7
Date: Oct 19, 2007 3:06 pm PT
Review:  for the original call of duty this isnt a bad game, it is a little difficult to understand what 
 to do and figure out what buttons do what... especially if your like me and start playing the game 
 without even glancing at the manual. overall the game has some substance and was good for the time 
 although the future installments in this series promise more and hopefully they will deliver.... although 
 i must say call of duty 4 is looking amazing in comparison graphically, game play wise and the 
 overall look and feel of the game make it much anticipated by myself for one 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bthrustr
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 14, 2007 3:13 pm PT
Review:  This is the first World War II simulation I have ever played so I can't really compare it to other 
 WWII shooters. As an infrequent gamer, I chose this one for the good reviews and the fact that 
 I could pick it up for $9.99. Staying five years behind the technology curve has it's perks. :-)
 
  
  I really enjoyed the experience and I will say it gave me a unique first-person appreciation for 
 the battles fought in the war. My only complaint about this game is that it seemed too short. That's 
 an odd complaint from me as it usually takes me forever to finish a game. But Call of Duty spends 
 very little time forcing you to travel long distances and solve puzzles. You go from one battle 
 right into another. So perhaps it was because I never got lost or stuck trying to figure out some 
 frustrating puzzle that the game seemed short. Perhaps it was just me playing a game to it's normal 
 length for a change.
  
  In any event, I am eager to find United Offensive to continue the experience. I can't say I'd rate 
 this game as high as most people have, but I would still highly recommend it to anyone looking 
 for the WWII experience. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rlink0
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 11, 2007 3:09 pm PT
Review:  If you are a fan of Call of Duty, Medal of Honor, or any other first-person shooter for any system, 
 especially those of you that are fans of WWII games, this is a must. Likewise, if you are interested 
 in these kinds of games, you should most likely get this. It's definitely not for everyone, seeing 
 as there are probably other ones in the series that are better, but it can definitely suck you 
 into the world of FPS.
  
  Graphics- Decent... not perfect, nor 360 quality, or anything close, but it's fine... Nothing monumental, 
 but not... not NES, don't worry, ha ha....
  
  Gameplay- Pretty good. If you argue the gameplay over graphics, this is great. It sure sparks determination 
 to beat the game on the hardest level of difficulty once you get into it.
  
  Sound- ... What is there to say about it? OK, so maybe I'm half-deaf, but the sound is fine...
 
  
  Although I have never played the multiplayer, I'm sure it's just fine. Go ahead and buy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: classic7
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 2, 2007 1:03 pm PT
Review:  The new kid on the block when announced, Call of Duty dared challenge the complete rule of the 
 WWII-FPS genre of Medal of Honor, most were sceptical, i will admit so was i. Yet it stole out 
 hearts and won game of the year, and is still one of the best shooters of all time. So much can 
 be said of this game, so much, enough to wright a novel. I will cut it short.
  
  Gameplay- The controls are very simple, it becomes like second nature, The fire fights are unforgettable, 
 just solid.
  
  Sound- The musical score was tremendous, each new song drove you to ultimate victory over your 
 fascist enemies.
  
  Tilt- This game is timeless, a game to be remembered, you'll be going back year after year just 
 to experience it one more time.
  
  Reviewers Tilt- I love this game, its on my top five favs, I have played time and time again, i'll 
 be going back to it for the rest of my life. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Wigster666
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 25, 2007 12:12 pm PT
Review:  Call of duty is an amazing first person shooter, with a massive single player story line and highly 
 addictive and exciting multiplayer. The single player sees you start out fighting as the Americans, 
 then British and finally Russian, all of the single player levels are fun and exciting. The multiplayer 
 is seriously intense, although if more people could play in the same server it would be even better. 
 When you have finished the single player you could try it in different difficulty settings or move 
 straight onto the multiplayer ( far better if you ask me) . the multiplayer can be challenging to 
 begin with when you find a server with loads of very good players in it. The only faults i can 
 find are there should be bigger maps with more people on it and a couple of glitches where you 
 or an enemy/friendly bot gets stuck. A truly great game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: A1B2C3CAL
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 24, 2007 1:07 pm PT
Review:  World War 2 has always been the prime staple for the FPS genre. Everyone and their mother has to 
 re-create the attack on Omaha and the march into Germany. Frankly, sometimes I get pissed playing 
 the same missions over again. Why cant I jump into the boots of the 101st Airborne Division, the 
 Screaming Eagles, and jump in behind enemy lines on June 5th, 1944? Why cant I play a Russian 
 grunt attempting to dodge the bullets of the Nazis along with the bullets of his own countrymen 
 trying to force him to his inevitable doom? Why is it always me running up Omaha at some bunkers, 
 like Ive always done before? Well, Activision decided to give us a super killer game that not 
 only shows you what happened elsewhere in the war, but does it well. Call of Duty, to the surprise 
 of many, is based on the venerable Quake 3 engine. Wait, this game that looks really darn good 
 is just some Quake 3 rip-off? Absolutely. So, what does that mean? You get all this graphical goodness 
 without having to deal with the annoyances of upgrading your computer to a $10,000 rig. Just about 
 every character has a unique face and look about them, which adds a ton to the realism to the game. 
 Each character model is highly detailed and moves smoothly and nicely. It is also amazing how many 
 of these well-detailed soldiers can be packed onto the screen at once. In the Russian campaigns, 
 when the fools were using the toss as many bodies at the enemy as possible, even if theyre unarmed 
 method, you would see dozens of men streaming across the battlefield to face another dozen or so 
 Germans on the other side. As we well know, the best graphics and sound effects in the world wont 
 ever make up for a poorly crafted game. Luckily, the sounds and visuals complement the game perfectly. 
 In most shooters, you are, to quote the Army, An Army of One: You pick up your gun and mow down 
 hordes of enemies, all by your lonesome. Call of Duty introduces the necessity to play nice with 
 your squad, because they are there to save your butt. The shooter part of the game is still pretty 
 basic: point, shoot, repeat. It is the strategy needed when using those skills that draws in the 
 originality. If you rush into a room recklessly, and there are bad guys in it, kiss your backside 
 goodbye. You have to work with your squad to provide cover fire, cover the rear, and clear rooms. 
 Tactics also play a huge role in this game. Your typical shooter lets you run head long into the 
 enemy and do well. If you do that in Call of Duty, youre just a Russian grunt destined to get 
 mowed down by machine gun fire. Bullets hurt a lot in this game; youre not Superman. So tactics 
 like diversions, flanking, and using cover to wait for the enemy to reload (yes, they actually 
 stop to reload, a novelty in many shooters on the market) , before getting the enemy. The game doesnt 
 force you in any one direction, but it makes it clear that one way is damned stupid; if you do 
 manage to get there that way, kudos, you are a fine gamer. There are a couple of exceptions, like 
 the Dam level, but just how much mobility to you get in a dam anyhow? The weapon realism is right 
 on. Most soldiers would have killed to get their hands on an M1 Garand, and I can see why. Those 
 things tore apart the Germans and their bolt action rifles. Russian guns were horribly insufficient 
 for combat, outside of their incredibly fine sniper rifle. The Brits and Germans have a couple 
 of particularly nasty submachine guns, most specifically the deadly, accurate, and fast German 
 MP-44. You dont want to be stuck with some archaic Lee-Enfield bolt action rifle looking down 
 the barrel of an MP-44. The AI in the game is rather incredible. Most titles AI enemies are either 
 idiots or precognitive, with no real middle ground. Call of Duty manages to get to that middle 
 ground. Enemies and allies alike hit the dirt and use cover, be it a wall, fence, or dead cow. 
 Their aim is as good as can be expected from scared men with hot lead flying about their heads. 
 They arent going to hit you dead on between the eyes by shooting around a corner blindly; they 
 are much more likely to put a lot of holes in the floor. The enemies are also fond of flanking 
 and pinch attacks and work together to get you. Most shooters have enemies noticing every small 
 detail, like your hand sticking around a corner or a grenade tossed into the room from behind during 
 a heavy firefight. CoDs enemies get distracted and have a line of sight to play with. Toss a grenade 
 in a room with a couple of machine gunners, and they arent bound to notice it over the fire of 
 their weapons. Enemies can be distracted by an ally running decoy, which gives you time to look 
 around the corner and fire hot lead into his forehead. The single player game is reasonably long, 
 running around 12-15 hours. Luckily, the online portion then kicks in, and kicks in strong. Online 
 continues along the theme of chaos and squad tactics. You defend positions, flank others, and never 
 know where an attack is going to come from. The levels in multiplayer offer a host of places to 
 hide and attack from, so the action is everywhere and frantic, just like real war. Get online after 
 playing the solid single player mode; you will enjoy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Azghouls
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 23, 2007 8:54 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay 9
  Graphics 8
  Sounds 8
  Value 7
  Tilt 10
  
  The Good
  * Missions are based on 'lesser known campaigns' which still have equally importance of the outcome 
 of the war and not relying on the 'cash cow' big seller campaigns
  * Sounds are extreme yet believable
  * Intelligent AI
  * The Final Assault
  
  The Bad
 
  * Quite a short campaign
  * Unrealistic AI aiming - way too accurate in most cases
  * Unable to open or close doors
  
  Considering the huge popularity of World War II games in 
 the market, this is one genre I find it extremely hard to engage myself into. My reason for this 
 is on a personal level. Considering my mother is a German, father a Pole (whose ancestry is Russian) , 
 my wife an Italian and of course me an Australian, I really find it difficult to sniper a German's 
 head no matter the 'political justice' it may seem in the history books.
  
  Of course my grandfathers (both mum and dad sides) will tell me 'bedtime stories' of World War 
 II and how wonderful (sarcasm) it is. These are the stories you not hear or read in history books 
 as they are the personal accounts of their views of the Great War (in my opinion there is only 
 one great war separated into two parts; like the Hundred Years War) . However if the roles are reversed 
 (say playing a German fighting against the Americans) then I have no problems. Again this is not 
 to say I approve of anything Nazi but as mentioned above I heard the German and Italian sides of 
 the war and it's hard to shake it off.
  
  In saying this there is a common element between these stories and the PC game that attracted me 
 to Call of Duty. The idea of saving your fellow team mates was consistent in all the stories I 
 have heard and yet was the main idea of Call of Duty as displayed in the opening sequence (and 
 mind you it was a very intense opening sequence) .
  
  Thankfully Call of Duty did not 're-enact' the 'best parts' of the war. It covered 'lesser known 
 battles' which also played an important part of the outcome of the war. Stories like the night 
 assault of  (and if you look carefully you can see the soldier's 
 parachute caught hanging from the church's spire) , the capturing of Pegasus Bridge, Operation Chastise 
 and The Battle for Pavlov's House all are here. It gets better as the developers took one bold 
 step and engage in the recreation of a very intense Russian campaign (Battle of Stalingrad and 
 the bombing of the Reichstag are just a few examples) . So the game designers not only took the 
 war in view of the American solider, it also took the views of the British and Russian soldier. 
 And I must admit when the game ends I feel like doing a standing ovation as the whole campaign 
 felt extremely exhausting but in a good way.
  
  I played the game at second hardest difficulty level as I considered myself a very good FPS player 
 (not brilliant but good) . This level to say the least is absolutely brutal. The AIs are very strong 
 and the aiming was a little too good for comfort. However this enhances the intensity of the war 
 as many-a-times you will encounter bombardments of tanks, submarine gunners and anything else that 
 the Germans will ditch. There were times I thought it was so intense the only option I can do is 
 to crawl in a corner like a dispirited soldier, listening to all the gunfire and explosions all 
 around me (which I will add are impressive on my 5.1 surround sound speakers whilst viewing on 
 my 24'' monitor) and really felt that I was a traitor as I did not assist my fellow team mates 
 in their time of need. There were other times that when the allies eventually provided additional 
 support (the missions where you need to stand your ground) I really felt like breaking down like 
 a emotional wreak as I can hear the tanks do their stuff. As mentioned in my review 'The Longest 
 Journey', the game will be memorable when you can actually 'feel and breathe' the main character 
 whilst having a sense of purpose instead of some heroic unemotional grunt. Call of Duty have done 
 exactly just that, bring on a virtual life of a soldier and because of this soared my tilt rating 
 to the perfect ten (the only other game that made me feel 'all gooey inside' is No One Lives Forever 
 which also scored a perfect ten) .
  
  However there are some minor flaws in the gameplay believe-it-or-not (remember people the main 
 difference between 'tilt' and 'gameplay' is that tilt is subjective whilst gameplay is objective) . 
 One of them is that it is really disappointing to see that you cannot open or close doors. Considering 
 the intensity of this game, it would greatly assist the player to shut the door behind him/her 
 when being chased instead of just being open for any grenadier to throw in. Also the AI even though 
 feels great and not act stupidly (as they do duck and cover) , on the higher levels their aiming 
 is somewhat inhuman. I really prefer that the higher the level, the smarter they are instead of 
 this godlike aiming (similar to Unreal Tournament where the higher the level, the 'smarter' they 
 are) . However don't let that deter you from playing the game. I never really seen such great AI 
 interaction since Half Life and any of the Unreal Tournament games (funny enough Half Life uses 
 the same engine as CoD; that is the Quake engine) .
  
  Graphically the game is pleasing to the eye. My first impression and correctly so, the game was 
 using a heavily modified Quake III engine. You can really see the traits of this engine (e. g. backdrop 
 scenery come across like a massive painted canvas,) and considering CoD was released in 2003 and 
 the engine was first introduced in 1999, it goes to show the immense power and versatile this engine 
 really is (actually it's my second favourite engine falling just behind the mighty Unreal engine) . 
 However there are pockets of aging effects as the environments are not totally 'there' (just a 
 little too 'cartoonish' but certainly not off putting) .
  
  The sound quality can be summarise in just one word - fierce. From guns firing to aerial bombers 
 screaming overhead to tanks blasting away to people yelling orders, the entire ordeal is nothing 
 short but utter chaos (but in a good way) . Again, there are times that I really want to yell 'shut 
 up with all that racketing' however I bet I had just a glimpse of what really happened in the battlefield. 
 I will tip my hat to Infinity Ward and Activision for making the sounds chaotic yet enjoyable. 
 However the musical scores, even though quite nice it lacked 'soul'. If you seen the movie 'Saving 
 Private Ryan' the musical scores certainly touch the soul (well mine anyway) however CoD didn't 
 quite cut it.
  
  Sadly the length of the entire campaign is quite short. Even though there are in total 25 missions, 
 all the missions are quite short in length and some includes a count down timer. However the game 
 has four level of difficulty (and to my knowledge the main difference between them is the accuracy 
 of the AIs and the amount of damage you can take) and the great multiplayer option. On top of that, 
 you can grab a copy easily for $10 (unless taking as a package like United Offensive) . The manual 
 itself is nice and does cover the important aspects of the game (including great explanations of 
 the different types of weapons) and actually is worth reading. The hints near the back of the manual 
 are something you really want to take note of and the five posters at the start of the training 
 grounds are not for show.
  
  I can imagine that the multiplayer option will be a blast. This is something I really did not try 
 out in depth however this option seems just as powerful as the single player campaign. The game 
 sports that typical deathmatch, team deathmatch, seek and destroy, and the somewhat unique retrieval 
 however the main emphasis of online playing is team work as just like in the actual Great War. 
 And you know the multiplayer is a good thing as there are many mods out there and that any game 
 that has a great modding community shows a good sign of an active yet enjoyable multiplayer mode.
 
  
  Call of Duty has definitely raised the bar of FPS and I have never felt good in a FPS game like 
 this since No One Lives Forever. FPS are notoriously known for all action and lack of soul. Granted 
 that guns a blazing can be great fun however just like the ammo round, it dies off rather quickly. 
 Originally I had some serious doubts over this game as the first mega hit 'Medal of Honour' took 
 the World War II genre to new heights, I really thought CoD is simply just a clone cashing in the 
 success of this field (as both games uses the same gaming engine) . Admittedly and regrettably I 
 am wrong. Call of Duty surpasses anything I have thought in this game as this game did not use 
 the 'great moments' of World War II for an easy win. It uses the elements of team work and better 
 still, created the main character (actually three) souls and a sense of identity which all the 
 soldiers in World War II fought and died for. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: giro786
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 10, 2007 5:04 am PT
Review:  this is the best WWii game ever made ; it kicks medal of honor's ass big time in everything i cannot 
 tell you how we spent nights and nights playing it in multiplayer i used to play it for 6 hours 
 or so ; and it was never boring of course graphics isn't that good , but anyway ; who cares about 
 graphics if you have this type of an action game with all the realistic weapons and ammo and missions
 
  
  i am sad that the newed COD ( modern warfare ) will not be based on the wwii
  
  but , we will see 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Percypoo
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 4, 2007 12:02 pm PT
Review:  World War 2 is overused source material, but if you stick to games like this, you'll always have 
 fun. Each and every decent WW2 game has unique and memorable missions. All the bad ones don't. 
 This game may be 4 years old but it still has it's list of unforgetable battles. Call of Duty united 
 Offensive, Call of Duty Finest Hour, Call of Duty 2 and Medal of Honor European Assault, have all 
 involved Russians, but none of the Russian battles found in those games compare to the original 
 Russian battles found here. All the big charges and annoying propoganda were boring in those games 
 but we first saw that stuff here and it was amazing. If you've never played a WW2 game with Russians, 
 start with COD. This game also has the best, hold of the Germans until reifrocements arrive 4.00 
 minutes remaining mission. If you think that isn't good enough, you have the British mission where 
 you use a machine gun to defend a bridge against the Germans wich just looks so different and memorable 
 compared to other games similar battles. Finally, this was in 2003, andyet in gameplay it compares 
 to 2007 games, I think we have a classic here wouldn't you agree? I'm just backing up the COD fans 
 and trying to attract more people to a superb game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: doomwarrior235
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 7, 2007 12:00 am PT
Review:  Medal of honor was the WW 2 shooter to get, but know their is a better WW 2 shooter out there, 
 Call of Duty. Call of Duty combines great game play with intense battles. You start out as an American 
 soldier, then you play as a British soldier, and then finally you play as a Russian soldier. Call 
 of Duty has some great sounding sound, that it fells so real. Call of Duty does not take long to 
 finish but it is so fun that you will want to go through it again. Over all Call of Duty is a fun 
 game that any shooter fan will enjoy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 11cairborne
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 27, 2007 1:19 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay: The gameplay is perfect the guns are beautiful, almost all WWII games are very good but 
 this one is the best one ive ever played. the action is almost non stop which i love, this game 
 is definetly one of the best ever. so the gameplay would be 10 out of 10
  
  Graphics: Beautiful well for 2003 i loved the graphics everything is good about this game the gameplay 
 graphics and sound are perfect so i would give the graphics a 10 out of a 10
  
  Sound: The is also very good just like every other WWII game they are average just like everything 
 so the sound is 9 out 10
  
  Value: I got more than i excpected because i dont really like first person shooters but this game 
 is good
  
  Tilt: 10 out of 10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DodgeDuty
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 26, 2007 3:18 pm PT
Review:  Call of Duty is one of the best games even to todays standards. The graphics are good in 2003 and 
 still average today. They look about the same as Medal of Honors, but with a little detail. The 
 gameplay is a mixture of arcady and realistic, leaning towards arcady as you can get sniped in 
 the head, but can take a lot of damage even from grenades. Grenades look good and have a decent 
 blast radius, and the guns feel different. Call of Duty uses different gamplay from other games, 
 like leaning from Medal of Honor and looking down the scope in battlefield. Too bad you can't run 
 though as things are blown around you. What really stands out is the intensity, and chaos in the 
 battles as there are many allies on your side and the same number of enemies. Your allies can be 
 helpful at drawing fire towards them, and are okay shooters, which makes it feel realistic. A couple 
 of glitches though ruin single player, as enemies and allies will freeze with there hands out like 
 zombies when they get shot, and will skip the animation. Sometimes you have to follow someone, 
 to trigger an action sequence, but it never gets triggered, so that I have to restart from a save, 
 or blow myself up. Other than that multiplayer is amazing, with good voice-overs that still make 
 it a great game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Homes225
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 24, 2007 1:35 pm PT
Review:  Story: You play as a U. S. Army Airborne soldier. Fight against Nazis. Win the War.
  
  Graphics: Great for it's time.
  
  Audio: Realistic sounding weapons, enemies, voice overs are 
 good.
  
  Missions: Drop in, setup, destroy key Nazi outposts, etc.
  
  Controls: Average FPS Controls.
  
  Features: Wide range of weapons, realistic.
  
  A. I.: 
 Surprising at times, can out smart you if you aren't on your guard.
  
  Loading Times: Frequent but quick.
  
  Multiplayer: Shows what MP is meant for in a WWII shooter.
 
  
  Requirements: Low to Medium.
  
  Weapons: M1 Carbines, M1 Garands, Thompsons, and many more.
  
  The Good: Not just another WWII 
 shooter.
  
  The Bad: Replayabilty isn't the greatest.
  
  The Ugly: Nothing, this game is purty.
  
  Replay Ability: Low to Medium.
  
  The Bottom 
 Line: The poster boy for World War Two Shooters. Must Play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thedevildweller
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 7, 2008 9:08 am PT
Review:  Call of Duty Review by Simon.
  
  Call of duty is a fantastic 1st person war shooter for the PC that blow Medal of Honor right out 
 of the water. Experience the cinematic of World War II's epic battles. In War, no one fight alone. 
 Call of duty was voted the number one PC game back in 2003 and I can see why. The game-play is 
 fantastic with great intense action experience. Impressive graphics and background effects. Fantastic 
 sound effects that make you feel like your right in the heart of War. An experience every FPS fan 
 much go through. Amazing multiplayer gaming that you'll play for hours. It's been four years and 
 Call of Duty is still the best 1st person war shooter FACT.
  
  Medal of Honor is a classic, but Call of Duty takes over.
  
  Graphics  8/10
  Game-play  
 9/10
  Sound  9/10
  Lifespan  8/10
  
  OverAll  9.4/10
  
  Good Points:
   Intense FPS action
   The feel of being in battle
   The sound effect
   Multiplayer gaming
 
  
  Bad Point:
   Cheaters in multiplayer  Tank battle control is a bit weak 
::::::

::::::
UserName: majesticcryx
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 28, 2007 8:24 am PT
Review:  You cant watch a TV program about gaming, or read a newspaper article about gaming, without seeing 
 at least one pundit wax poetic about how games are quickly catching up with movies as sensory experiences. 
 Usually, we kind of politely nod along and say: Hmm. Yeah. I guess. Maybe. Someday.
  
  With the arrival of Call of Duty, someday is now.
  
  Lets not waste time here  I did not 
 see a motion picture in 2003 that gripped me the way Call of Duty does. Its visual design and sound 
 make a visceral impact that no filmed entertainment even approached; and needless to say, the real 
 pleasure comes from interacting with its vivid battlefields and scripted action.
  
  Just when I thought the World War II genre was getting tired on the PC, this game has made me forget 
 all about any that have come before.
  
  The game is structured around three individual campaigns, each letting you wage war in the boots 
 of a different character in the Allied struggle.
  
  The first campaign follows American paratroopers in the pre-dawn hours of D-Day and in the days 
 immediately after. Following a hard drop into a hot landing zone, you reassemble with your unit 
 and launch an assault on a village crossroads. Once you take the village, its a fade-in to dawn 
 and your unit has to defend the very same village against a ferocious German counterattack. Other 
 American missions include a hair-raising jeep ride through enemy lines, a cutthroat trench battle 
 in the hedgerows of the French countryside, and a breakout from a P. O. W. camp.
  
  These jaw-dropping battles set the table nicely for the game to follow. Theres a palpable sense 
 of panic right off the bat  your very first objective is to regroup with your sergeant, whose 
 corpse you find dangling from the tree in which his parachute is tangled. Not good! The American 
 campaign is full of apocalyptic firefights, and at all times you feel like a small piece of a frightfully 
 larger struggle. Yet, the designers are always conscious of putting you in the forefront of the 
 battle  you tend to be the man to flank a German machinegun nest and open up a key alleyway, or 
 the man who lands a lethal Panzerfaust strike to stop a rampaging Nazi tank.
  
  The British campaign is centered around the surgical operations of UK commandos. Here, Call of 
 Duty veers away from the teeth-rattling scale of the U. S. campaigns major combat. Instead, youre 
 tasked with sneakier missions  quietly planting explosives at the Eder Dam, seizing a bridge in 
 a midnight raid, and posing as German Navy officers to slip aboard a battleship and scuttle it.
 
  
  The commando campaign is actually where Call of Duty is at its weakest. After the Spielberg-ian 
 battle sequences of the American missions, the Brit commandos are a return to the sneak around 
 and snipe gameplay of every other military shooter thats ever come down the pike. Its almost 
 as if the developers hedged their bets, worrying that FPS fans would expect a certain amount 
 of lone-wolf missions, when in fact, these scenarios only bring Call of Duty back down from the 
 lofty heights of the opening campaign.
  
  Thankfully, the action quickly picks up again in the Russian campaign, the longest and most intense 
 of the trilogy. Holy mackerel  its hard to know where to start in describing this campaign. Well, 
 how about the beginning: youre a poor, terrified conscript being herded into the meat grinder 
 of Stalingrad. Propaganda officers bark encouragement over bullhorns, while shooting those who 
 try to flee. There arent enough rifles to go around, so youre issued an ammo cartridge and instructed 
 to follow a soldier until hes killed  and then you pick up his rifle. Lenins ghost! The city 
 itself is a charnel house, a hell of zinging machinegun rounds and exploding artillery shells.
 
  
  The Russian campaign continues in a westward sweep through the Eastern Front. Surviving the horrors 
 of Stalingrad, you graduate to sniper status and then get transferred into the tank corps. The 
 tank-commander missions are a fun and destructive break from the infantry theme. The final stretch 
 of the campaign  a factory assault and railyard battle in war-torn Poland offers some tremendous 
 set-piece firefights.
  
  In the end, a fourth mini-campaign serves as a kind of non-denominational epilogue, with end-of-war 
 missions for each of the three principals. The final Soviet assault on the heart of Nazi Berlin 
  culminating in your raising the hammer-and-sickle flag from the top of the Reichstag  is truly 
 stirring (in a Commie sort of way) .
  
  NEAR-VERISIMILITUDE
  When the shells erupt, and the ricochets ping, and soldiers cry out, and smoke billows, and walls 
 are crumbling from tank-shell blasts, and burning bombers are crashing just over the horizon, you 
 know youre in the **** Call of Duty throws all of this and more at you, in mission after mission 
 of incredibly intense action. The graphics and sound achieve a near-lifelike quality in the bombed-out 
 cities. You will be awed.
  
  Several Hollywood veterans lend their voices, helping to polish the movie quality of the game. 
 While Giovanni Ribisi is largely wasted in his tiny role as a befuddled paratrooper, Jason (The 
 Transporter) Statham is outstanding as a commando lieutenant. With his war-weary growl, he sounds 
 like he cant wait to personally pay back Hitler for the London Blitz.
  
  This sense of authenticity extends into the artificial intelligence. Never before have I had the 
 sense of looking out over a field of rubble and watching 20 or 30 AI-controlled characters all 
 acting and reacting in believable, human manner  making tentative advances against gunfire; 
 huddling under cover to come up with a plan; cowering under suppressive fire. Your AI teammates 
 do a great job of staying in the fight alongside you, without taking the lead to blaze through 
 the game on your behalf.
  
  HOLES IN THE WEBBING
  Granted, not all is perfect. There are a few instances of ghost shooting, in which AI soldiers 
 are firing but nothing is coming out of the weapon  no muzzle flash, no bullets. (And, in at least 
 one instance, there was no enemy to be shooting at, regardless.) We also encountered a bug in the 
 names database  unless theres a damn good explanation for why, in such an otherwise realistic 
 game, the rest of my Russian fireteam were guys named Stone, OConnell, and Rogers.
  
  And we found some problems with enemies clipping through the world  a few dead soldiers floated 
 in mid-air at staircases. Stairs in general are a bit of a loss in this game (as in many Quake 
 IIIpowered games) : characters glide down them like phantoms, and seem to have some trouble figuring 
 out how to negotiate them, leading to fatal traffic jams in stairwells.
  
  But honestly, thats about it for technical troubles. I think my harshest criticism of Call of 
 Duty is that it can be very difficult. Even on the easiest difficulty setting, some missions seemed 
 barely surmountable; on the next-highest setting, almost all of the missions posed an incredible 
 challenge. With so much to see and enjoy, I wish Infinity Ward had offered a Ridiculously Easy 
 setting for people who just want to move through the game and drink it all in without having to 
 worry about their asses constantly getting shot off.
  
  DIFFERENT THAN BF 1942
  In our playtests, Internet multiplay ran without a hitch in fights incorporating around 20 to 25 
 players (32 is the maximum) . Call of Duty multiplay is very different than Battlefield 1942. Instead 
 of the emphasis on arcade action and vehicles, CoD concentrates on the sensory immersion of the 
 battlefield. Team-vs.-team deathmatching is great fun, especially with the location-specific damage 
 model and its instant-kill punishment via head shots.
  
  The location-based damage also makes grenades a much more deadly and terrifying instrument than 
 theyve ever been in a multiplayer game  you may instinctively think youre behind cover, but 
 if any part of you is sticking out in the line of fire, you can still be killed by a piece of shrapnel. 
 Its a horrid feeling to be ducking behind a stone wall and still catch a lethal bit of flak because 
 you werent all the way covered  but thats war, buddy.
  
  One multiplayer mode tasks a side with capturing a flag and returning it to an end zone, with the 
 enemy laying ambushes all over the track. CoD also has a very fun multiplayer mode in which several 
 players are It, and score points for surviving as long as they can, while all the other players 
 are scrambling around trying to kill them so that they can respawn as one of the It guys and 
 take their turn as the hunted.
  
  Ultimately, though, its the 24-mission single-player experience that youll remember for years. 
 Call of Duty is a first-rate achievement. The sensory overload is amazing, and the interaction 
 with intricately scripted action set-pieces is a big step forward for the art form. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MasterChief725
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 15, 2007 8:35 am PT
Review:  I got Call of Duty in the Call of Duty warchest, along with COD2, and the expansion to COD. I couldnt 
 help it, and I played COD2 first, which then of course, lowered my anticipation of COD. However 
 when I first played it, I realized why this game was such a classic. The game re-defined WWII first 
 person shooters. When I think of a WWII shooter, I think of a game with British/American soldier, 
 running from town to town, killing Germans. Sniping, melee, but mostly the up close and hysteric 
 shooting. You have a life-bar, and ammo, and many different guns. When you die, you come back to 
 the last checkpoint. You have different objectives in a mission, but an overall mission to complete. 
 And it is semi-realistic, you cant just charge into a building and kill everyone (like in COD 2) 
 which I think is too bad. But that is the WWII game that I think of, and that game is call of duty. 
 Even by today's standards, Call of Duty has excellent graphics, and really exciting gameplay. It 
 is such an exciting game. In COD 2, you have a sense of invulnerability, that you do not get in 
 Call of Duy. In the first mission, when you reach your commanding officer, and he is dead in the 
 tree... that is awesome. And you come across the germans playing cards... you just go in and kill 
 them all. Amazing, you can see why this game defined world war II shooters. For $10 this game is 
 a steal, especially for those with older computers, but the bottom line is, Call of Duty 2 is a 
 superior game, and it is just more fun to play. For example in Call of Duy 1, you have to take 
 out that entire dam by yourself...? That would never have happened in real life. I got killed so 
 many times on that level, that I just ended up crawling through it, lol, and I'm serious. They 
 dont make the impossible stuff in COD 2. But still, if you have an older computer, and $10, this 
 game is worth it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Beowulf2525
Rating: 8.9
Date: Aug 7, 2007 3:44 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay: The moment you start the campaign, you are hooked. Nothing but intense firefights, explosions, 
 and of course, screaming soldiers. This game is one which the player wants to end, yet also yearns 
 for it to never end. With a well thought out campaign, it is a very great game.
  
  Graphics: Pretty good. On today's computers, anyone can max them out. However, it doesn't mean 
 it's a dull game. When it is maxed out, it looks very good.
  
  Sound: The sounds are very life like. From the Flak 88's you destroy, to your Thompson SMG, the 
 sound is superb. Something is always happening, from the cursing sergeant one moment to the sound 
 of an MG42 opening fire. Listening is a good way to avoid getting caught unprepared. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: birdyflightster
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 6, 2007 11:59 am PT
Review:  Call of Duty is the first of many in it's series. This game provides good gameplay and decent graphics. 
 Plus, it has awesome online multiplayer battles that will keep you playing for hours.
  GRAPHICS- The graphics in this game are great and the environments are detailed. Each map has its 
 own look throughout all of the campaign and into the online multiplayer. However there are a few 
 glitches and weapons that needed some more work. But overall the graphics are good especially considering 
 that the game was made almost four years ago.
  GAMEPLAY-
  If you're playing the campaign, you will fight through the eyes of the Russians, British and Americans. 
 From the first level until the last, each level has solid gameplay. each level has its own unique 
 objectives that you and your always present comrades must complete. But it's the online gameplay 
 that really makes Call of Duty shine. There are six different game types you can choose from: Deathmatch, 
 Team deathmatch, headquarters, behind enemy lines, retrieval, and search and destroy. In deathmatch, 
 it's an all out war. nobody is safe and there are no teams, just you and your weapons. In team 
 deathmatch, you are on a team. depending on the maps you can choose to be Russian, American, British 
 or German. In behind enemy lines you must stay alive as long as possible. the longer you stay alive, 
 the more points you get. In retrieval, you are playing capture the flag. if you die, your out and 
 whoever gets the flag wins. In search and destroy the objective is simple.... search and destroy. 
 Once again, if you die you're out and wont be back until the next round. In headquarters, the main 
 objective is to capture radios from around the map before your enemy. If you are killed you must 
 wait 40 seconds before coming back to life, which could be costly for your team.
  A. I.-
  The A. I. in this game will of course depend on what level of difficulty you choose to play in: 
 easy, difficult or hard. so if you play on hard the enemy is much smarter and not as easy to kill. 
 In difficult..... it's difficult. and playing in easy is like smashing ants on the sidewalk. Overall, 
 the A. I. is well done and worth the time it takes to kill them. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fbasque78
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 27, 2007 5:06 am PT
Review:  When Call of Duty came out, it became the new king of World War II shooters. Unlike Medal of Honor, 
 in which you control the same dude from start to finish, COD gives you the chance of experiencing 
 war thru multiple soldiers. You'll play as a American, British and Soviet soldier. Most of the 
 missions aren't one man shows... you'll get to tag along with some fellow soldiers. The AI of these 
 soldiers vary from excellent to brain dead... it all depends on the situation. The sound in this 
 game is phenomenal... THIS GAME IS LOUD! It makes you feel like the War is not just inside your 
 PC screen. The missions are varied and contains lots of nice scripted events. I was able to finish 
 the game under 7 hrs so it's not a long game. The game will give you a challenge but it contains 
 a excellent auto-save feature... if you die you won't have to backtrack for more than a few minutes. 
 The game usually auto-saves when something crazy is gonna happen.
  
  The Good
  -------------
  Great Missions - Good Graphics - The best Sound in a shooter ever - Gives you 
 a good challenge while not being frustrated - Excellent auto-save feature.
  
  The Bad
  -------------
  Short single-player campaign - AI is sometimes flaky The Verdict
  -----------------
 
  
  This game rocks! If you liked Medal of Honor, you will love this game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Brodcr
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jul 19, 2007 1:45 pm PT
Review:  100% recomendable!
  en todo momento inspira las ganas de seguir jugando...
  es facil de jugar, aunque puede confundirse un poco las teclas a utilizar
  me parace que se le 
 pudieron haber metido detalles en cuanto a grafica que hicieran del juego mas atractivo al usuario, 
 cuestiones como cadaveres fijos en el suelo, impactos fijos en las paredes, luces quebradas, etc..
 
  la utilizacion y respaldo en la historia le crea una veracidad interesante a la hora de jugar
 
  como he comentado al principio y la mayoria estaran de acuerdo conmigo... es un juego cien por 
 cien recomendado para el amante de videojuegos de 1era persona donde hay que aniquilar al conocidisimo 
 archienemigo 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DroidKiller95
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 12, 2007 10:51 am PT
Review:  This game is amazing for a game made in 2001. It has good graphics and quite a long single-player 
 campaign which is really fun. The multiplayer isn't the best so don't look forward to it. I've 
 beaten the game and it's kind of easy but it does have about 20-30 missions so it will take a while 
 to complete. It is also kind of a thrilling game, driving through enemy camps in a humvee type 
 vehicle and then breaking down in front of 20 germans. It's not the best game ever but it is still 
 worth $20 so go out and get it. Well that's my review of Call of Duty. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bigbomb2
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jul 10, 2007 10:07 pm PT
Review:  Last Year on my computer when it was still at 1.2 GHz, (Now it's 2.4, whoopee...) and I had a somewhat 
 hard time playing it with my cruddy computer. Turning the graphics so low though really helped. 
 I enjoyed the game a whole lot. It was a very fun single-player game, but even better was its awesome 
 multiplayer. Multiplayer worked even better than single-player, so I had a fun time. Now it's even 
 better, thanks to my not-so-great graphics card.
  
  Positive- Looks good, sounds incredible, handles well, little slowdown, great single-player, awesome 
 and highly addicting multiplayer.
  
  Negative- only very small little problems not worth mentioning.
  
  This is one insanely good 
 game any PC owner should get. plus, it's only around $10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: asgh0r
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jul 9, 2007 3:50 am PT
Review:  Call of Duty is a great game, with a amazing somethings, and real fun!
  from cool and nice actions, missions, weapons, enemies, locations, and more rich of details and 
 others, my friends were talked to me this game is great and perfect, I really happy to had this 
 game, because all my friends were borrowed this game, I thought this game is greatest ever, cause 
 my friends and myself were appreciated this game, the gameplay and value is not bad, the graphic 
 is nice, and the sounds is amazingly, and the game is didn't made me and my friends boring, so, 
 the total of this game is not bad!
  because this game is one of my favorite games.. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jchen16
Rating: 9.9
Date: Jul 8, 2007 10:53 am PT
Review:  COD is a great game. Single player is awsome, as well as multiplayer online. You can't mess up 
 on gettin this game, the expantion pack helps out alot too. Single player takes you through WW 
 II to seize Hitler's power. You fight as US Army, Royal Army, and Red Army. Multiplayer is a fun 
 way to play agaisnt other players online. Your skills come in handy in multiplayer, but be aware 
 ppl are good. I love this game and i hope you enjoy to. COD COD COD COD COD COD COD COD COD COD 
 COD COD COD COD COD COD COD COD COD COD COD COD COD COD COD COD COD COD COD 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Pump_man44
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jul 7, 2007 8:52 pm PT
Review:  A milestone in itself. Call Of Duty is definitely one of the best World War II shooters ever... 
 The game starts out with a army training and then it moves onto more and more intense dogfights 
 with the enemy. The game is one of the best because we get to see the war through the perspective 
 of different soldiers and the battles in the war in a broader manner in different nations.
  
  The graphics in the game are top notch and provide great pleasure in high resolutions. The 
 missions and the storyline in the game move interestingly and gives players more depth into the 
 game. The game's cut scenes are really some of the best and the gradual progress in the game provides 
 hours of seamless enjoyment.
  
  The game provides four difficulty levels and you need to at least finish the game once in an easier 
 difficulty level to enable yourself to get used to the fierce dog fights in the highest difficulty 
 level because of the absence of any medi-packs. The game is one of the best WW II classics not 
 only because of its seriously great graphics but also because of the great storyline. The storyline 
 features your character's succession into a higher ranks in the military. The game shows how one 
 character becomes an expert sniper and the other a great combat specialist.
  
  Call Of Duty has a best online multiplayer in the series. It lets you experience the fun of the 
 Call Of Duty with other players all over the world and lets you show your skills to the whole Call 
 OF Duty online community. But you must have broadband (cable) to play with a low ping and not lag, 
 wireless is very slow and laggy.
  
  Call Of Duty on the whole is one of the best WW II First Person Shooters to play and enjoy. I have 
 played all the Call Of Duty (1-3) and i found that this one to be the funnest out them all. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Makhdoom82
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 5, 2007 8:00 am PT
Review:  Just like Mohaa made huge waves in ww2 genre fps shooters .... this one even outdid the mohaa series 
 ..... weapons and storyline maybe a little identical but the experience is totally different .... 
 multiplayer is so much fun ... This is one of those no hassle games where they never gave me any 
 problem in running ... single player or mutli ... Single player storyline was so impressive ... 
 and it was huge fun playing multiplayer on lan ... other difference is that it does not give you 
 a headache like mohaa does after 1 hour of gaming ... this one was just too sweet !!! Worth time 
 worth money !!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lilhawkkid182
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 10, 2007 6:16 am PT
Review:  It seems these days that World War Two shooters are hit or miss. Some hits would be Brothers In 
 Arms: Road To Hill 30, Medal of Honor: Allied Assault, and the original Medal of Honor games. Some 
 misses would be Medal of Honor: Frontline and Call of Duty: Final Hour. So basically what can be 
 said here is that is a game is gonna go from the PC to the consoles, that they should emulate it 
 perfectly for fail. Call of Duty is definitely a hit in the world of many World War Two games. 
 Call of Duty, does something that no other World War Two shooter has done, and that is show the 
 battles from all sides of the Allied front. Yes in this game you take control of the American's, 
 the British, and the Russians, and this game does it well. The console version the Russian levels, 
 were strictly tank driving, the British were mounted guns, and the American's missions were the 
 on foot stuff. This game mixes all that good stuff into one. This game captures the fun and thrills 
 that all World War Two game should have, the most exciting though are the Russian missions. From 
 taking back Stalingrad, to driving tanks, to the final mission, capturing and flying the Russian 
 flag over the Reichstag in Berlin. This is very fun. Graphically, this game looked good at its 
 time. Sadly now it looks like any old first person shooter that came out a year or two ago. This 
 game was pretty graphically enhanced though when it came out so it gets credit points for that 
 part. Even though now-a-days, with games like Half Life 2, Far Cry, and Doom 3, Call of Duty can 
 just be looked at as a shooter that did everything right for it's time. This game sounds great. 
 The mortar fire, the voice acting (the guy from the Transporter is in the British missions) , and 
 everything else sounds great. Honestly nothing is more intense than when a mortar shell hits nearby 
 you and you go into a dizzy state, and the background noises and the ringing of your ears sounds 
 great. The background music is beautifully composed, and they really make you feel like you did 
 something great. Almost something to be proud of. This game sounds beautiful, and really that is 
 all the needs to be said. This game controls like any other first person shooter on the PC market. 
 This is not a bad thing however, but if you have gotten use to using the E key for and action button, 
 its F this time (this really confused me for a while) . Other than that this game plays and controls 
 just fine, just like every other part of this game. This game only lets you carry a few weapons, 
 but hey they are trying to make it realistic, so good for them. No complaints here. This game has 
 replay value like there is no tomorrow. You can go through and play your favorite levels, favorite 
 campaigns (the Russian missions would have to be my favorite) , or you can just play the whole game 
 through again, because I know that there is a good chance that you will. The multi-player is legendary 
 though. There are so many different game modes, so many cool features, that you will want to keep 
 playing this game online way after you complete the single player experience. The kill-cam is complete 
 genius in my opinion. The fact that you can see your killers last twenty some seconds before they 
 pulled the trigger, and you can see what angle they got you from, and where they were in relation 
 to where you were. So yes this game has it all. It has the new fact that you can play as all sides 
 of the allied force, it has fun tank driving missions, and awesome multi-player. If you were like 
 me and you played the console version before you played this, Call of Duty is not a bad game at 
 all, it is just the console version that is not any good, but this game is definitely worth your 
 money. This game is defiantly a hit, and you should really pick this game up, because even if you 
 do not get into the multi-player stuff, the single player will blow you away. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JonB1969
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jun 9, 2007 8:48 pm PT
Review:  What can I say to start, but that this game is totally cool. I have played 1st person shooters 
 before, but I have never played WWII genre shooter games before. And I found this game to be easily 
 playable from the word go. For semi-newbies like me, there is an easy to follow training mission, 
 wherein you find out about movement controls (by doing the obstacle course) , and then find out 
 about weapons the easy way, by using them in a training mission. Here you find out the vital difference 
 between fully automatic weapons, single shot weapons, and those inbetween. You also find out about 
 the difference in accuracy between shooting from the hip, and taking the time to aim. But then 
 all the fun is over, and it's time for your 1st mission -- on the morning of June 6th, 1944. D-Day. 
 Gulp. But fortunately, the game is broken down in little mini missions, with definitive objectives 
 to accomplish. Fortunately, there is only one way go through these missions, but how the missions 
 are accomplished is all up to the player. And that's where all the fun is. While in the field, 
 you have a variety of weapons to choose from, and can even pick up enemy weapons and swap them 
 for your American weapons. The game is very realistic, and very immersive. While crossing a field 
 (sometimes on your belly, so you wont get your head blown off) , rounds will be wizzing over your 
 head, artillery and mortar rounds will be exploding nearby, your squad mates will be shouting to 
 each other (and to you) . Muzzle flashes of weapons, sound effects, and realistic graphics, plus 
 realistic movement controls, all come together to make an excellent game. And this is from someone 
 who has played their fair share of games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GamingBoy2009
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jun 9, 2007 7:47 pm PT
Review:  This is one of the best FPS Ive ever played. Call of Duty puts you in the battlefields of Europe 
 in the eyes of 3 soldiers: An American, British, and a Russian soldier and you will fight the Nazis 
 in over 15 missions as you make your way toward Berlin. All the weapons you use are authentic and 
 the tactics are authentic as well. AI is pretty good, they react to your every move. Its also very 
 intense, there will be moments where artillary will pound the area, stuka dive bombers will also 
 make things intense along with the loud sounds of machine guns and screaming soldiers, mix it with 
 great graphics and great gameplay and you will have an unforgetable experience. Multiplayer is 
 just as intense, you can play free for all or team battle with others. Multiplayer is a bit like 
 a historic version of Halo in my opinion. You will not be disappointed with either Single player 
 or Multiplayer.
  
  The Good: Lots of intensity and authenticity, great single player and multiplayer, High replay 
 value.
  
  The Bad: Not much is bad is about this game unless your one of those who freak out about another 
 WW2 game. Close quarter combat is not the best for friendly AI. They run into rooms without mercy 
 and sometimes get themselves killed.
  
  Its highly recommended for both WW2 fans and FPS fans. Since its now only $9.99, pick this one 
 up. You will not be disappointed. GET IT NOW!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hot_Potato
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 21, 2007 7:08 pm PT
Review:  This game is pretty good judging by today's standards. The game takes you through three campaigns. 
 One for the Americans, the British, and the Russians. You start off as an American who jumps in 
 behind enemy lines before D-Day. You have to then fight with your teammates to secure villages 
 and destroy anti-aircraft guns. You get to use a basic variety of World War era weapons like the 
 Thompson and M1 Garand. One of the best features about this game is the huge, intense firefights. 
 There can be as many at 30 -60 guys on screen at once, and you feel like you're in a real battle. 
 Part of this is because the enemies are not always focusing on you, but as your NPC teammates as 
 well.
  
  The game came out around 4 years ago, but the graphics still hold up pretty well. There's not much 
 too them, except the game looks awesome when there are 50 guys charging up a hill being shot up 
 by MGs and blown to pieces by mortars.
  
  The game sounds great when you turn the volume up loud. Having all the gunshots going off and the 
 explosions helps immerse you into the game
  
  The game isn't that great of a value. Most people can probably breeze through it in about 6-8 hours 
 on regular. The multiplayer also isn't as engaging as a game like Battlefield 2's.
  
  Needless to say, it's a fun game with some really memorable moments, and can run on probably any 
 computer. You can find it for about $20 with its expansion so give it a try, you probably won't 
 regret it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: frag_1
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jun 9, 2007 10:20 am PT
Review:  The game starts out with a army training and then it moves onto more and more intense dogfights 
 with the enemy. The game is one of the best because we get to see the war through the perspective 
 of different soldiers and the battles in the war in a broader manner in different nations.
  
  The graphics in the game are top notch and provide great pleasure in high resolutions. The 
 missions and the storyline in the game move interestingly and gives players more depth into the 
 game. The game's cut scenes are really some of the best and the gradual progress in the game provides 
 hours of seamless enjoyment.
  
  The game provides four difficulty levels and you need to at least finish the game once in an easier 
 difficulty level to enable yourself to get used to the fierce dog fights in the highest difficulty 
 level because of the absence of any medi-packs. The game is one of the best WW II classics not 
 only because of its seriously great graphics but also because of the great storyline. The storyline 
 features your character's succession into a higher ranks in the military. The game shows how one 
 character becomes an expert sniper and the other a great combat specialist.
  
  Call Of Duty has a great online multiplayer and provides great fun. It lets you experience the 
 fun of the Call Of Duty with other players all over the world and lets you show your skills to 
 the whole Call OF Duty online community.
  
  Call Of Duty on the whole is one of the best WW II First Person Shooters to play and enjoy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BadSushi
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jun 6, 2007 7:04 am PT
Review:  Call of Duty is personally one of my favorite games, not because it's a great WWII shooter, but 
 because it was made for an audience of people who don't need to play it eveyday. This game follows 
 a storyline very similar to the Medal of Honor franchises. You play the role of one man who seems 
 like he single handedly ends WWII, but they add something new into the formula, WWII wasn't just 
 fought by the US it was fought by British, Russian, and German forces as well and this is what 
 makes COD one of THE best, if not THE best WWI shooters out there. Graphics back in the day this 
 game had some of the greatest looking graphics, but looking back they still hold up. They were 
 good enough to have barley any gliches, even though I have run into a few, and the graphics could 
 easily be upgraded through mods found online. These mods improved the graphics so dramatically 
 that one could see a serial number on the end of a Thompson and even see who manufactured it. Other 
 mods included more blood, shell shock, and others, making this game ever evolving in the graphics 
 department.
  
  Sound will always be a major factor while playing this game or any war games. As bombs go off in 
 the distance and your comrades are in the middle of a firefight outside of the house your in it 
 needs to have some impressive sound. This game keeps up with it, when shell shocked everything 
 slows down including the sound. When walking in front of a radio one can hear German words spewing 
 out. Guns sound realistic when you fire them and reload them. Even the quick commands that one 
 can say are a little cheesy especially for the British and the Russian, and from what i heard the 
 German is a little off. But overall this game has some impressive firepower in sound.
  
  The mulitplayer is what makes this game a gem. The single player was fun and all, but after 5 or 
 6 hours the game is over and nothing is left except to play it on a harder difficulty. Starting 
 off with a wide vareity of maps all being used right out of the gates. Favorites are soon discovered 
 and 24 hour severs of that map are constantly being shown, (Dawnville and Carentan are prime examples) . 
 People are creating teams and clans, and starting matches to discover who is the best. People are 
 comming up with pristine tactics on not just where to go, but how to throw grenades to get them 
 to the others spawn. The multiplayer for this game is a rival of Counter Strike and in my opinon 
 even better. Overall this game maybe outdated to some, bu there are still thousands who play it 
 religously and are being rewarded with hours of thrilling gameplay and a somewhat nicer community 
 than most. The single player is not needed to even play the other CODs as it follows different 
 people. This game, if not a must buy, is a must play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: X_ICE-MONKEY_X
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 3, 2007 3:32 pm PT
Review:  This, as you must say, is a very very good game. For its time this game has some of the best graphics 
 and audio that there ever was. I cannot believe how long I have waited to write this review (probably 
 because I couldn't stop playing) . That first four or so lines should of already convinced you to 
 go out and buy the game which is no longer an expensive high-end game which actually makes it that 
 little bit more enjoyable. It feels good to put all the options on full when you go to the performance 
 or graphics screen. The ONLY drawback I could find to this game is the inability to minimize it. 
 Although there are mods that can do that for you I really doubt that it is a big enough issue as 
 it loads in about 3 seconds (wish I could say the same for the multi player variant) . The multi 
 player is intense and has that feeling as if you want to look over your shoulder all the time. 
 This multi player is governed by the powerful rifles that you can use to take down adversaries 
 in 1 shot, although many close quarter maps make the use of great automatic weapons such as the 
 Mp44 and BAR very good.
  
  I strongly recommend that you attempt to play this game on the two hardest difficulties before 
 righting a review. The other difficulties like Greenhorn are far too unrealistic and easy. The 
 harder game difficulties are what I am basing my review judgment on. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sytzepunk
Rating: 8.8
Date: May 27, 2007 12:44 pm PT
Review:  Answer: yes.
  
  Back in 2003, where the WWII genre was ruled by MoH and Soldier of Fortune, or even the Battlefield 
 series, people were looking at other WWII shooters are newbies that wouldn't affect the other games 
 like MoH, how wrong they were when a great game entitled Call of Duty came out in October, 2003.
 
  
  Call of Duty is you're average WWII shooter, but with some new features, you play under three diffrent 
 campaigns, the British, Russian and American campaigns, each campaign sets themself in a diffrent 
 person, you'll learn about the three person's you'll play during loading screens, where you can 
 view their diary, which gives a nice backstory. Each campaign also gives you a new varity of weapons, 
 their all authentic from the real WWII.
  
  Gameplay:
  Diffrent from CoD2, because you'll be able to switch weapons using you're mouseweel instead of 
 the 1 2 3 and 4 keys, default WASD keys, right click lets you use Ironsight, which has a nifty 
 3D effect, the only complaint I have is trouble with opening doors: You can't, sometimes you'll 
 have to wait for a friendly NPC to open the door to further the mission, other then that, it says 
 that all doors are already opened for you.
  
  Graphics and Sound:
  Stunning for their time, explosions look great and the impact from bullets and grenades on certain 
 surfaces sound good, bullets from distance and close sound realistic, you'll hear people from both 
 germany and you're side yelling commands, you'll hear bullets zoom across you're head, the sound 
 is a big YES.
  
  You'll also have a compass, which will let you see you're objective, everything can be learned 
 in the tutorial in the beginning of the game.
  
  AI:
  Good, both friendly and aggresive NPC's attack good, take cover and make use of mortars or settled 
 guns in windows, NPC's will also indicate you with information like in what positioning snipers 
 are, or on which side germans are coming from, friendly NPC's give covering fire if you flank germans 
 on you're own to.
  
  Story:
  The story is just WWII, you'll play a small unit in a huge scale war, not like MoH or SoF, diaries 
 will provide stories, and some interesting movies will be played after missions, giving you some 
 imformation about you're next objective.
  
  Multiplayer:
  CoD also gives us a multiplayer, giving us originial maps from the game, that means largescale 
 battles with 16-32 people at a time, you'll be able to pick sides and two weapons, also you'll 
 be able to use vehicles, multiplayer will last pretty long in replay value.
  
  Is it a good WWII/FPS:
  Yes, if you liked other CoD game, buy this game and its bonus-packs, 
 their worth it, you'll be forced to buy it if you are a fan of the WW genre.
  
  CoD is just a epic rehearsel of WWII, its cinematic fun, the graphics and sound are great, multiplayer 
 is fantastic and the singleplayer is fun and changes from story and leveldesigns constantly, its 
 just a mustplay if you just own a PC. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sharang_rai
Rating: 9.3
Date: Apr 29, 2007 9:45 pm PT
Review:  Call of Duty sparked off a great series that showed the other WW2 games who's boss. Its gameplay 
 is deep exciting and just damn fun. Its multiplayer is also reasonably good if u have a good connection. 
 The weapons are many and different from each other making sure the player finds his perfect mach 
 for eg. mine is the mp 44 which behaves and looks like the AK 47 in many ways and the mosin nagent 
 rifle/sniper rifle. There are 3 campaigns one USA one British and one Russian. Each campaign is 
 fun and has its plus and minus points. If u play on hard the game is really good because then noobs 
 can't just hit and run they have to think it through and find a good flanking position to take 
 out the enemy.
  
  The expansion pack is really great and if u liked the the game get it cause of its improved multiplayer 
 and more campaign its really fun. And more nazis to kill.
  
  So if u are a shooter and own a PC get this game and its expansion pack or if u have a powerful 
 enough PC get Call of Duty 2 its grahics are much better but the gameplay is pretty much the same 
 so u can master it quickly. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: worting
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 28, 2007 3:39 pm PT
Review:  Honestly Call of Duty really did not re-define historic war based FPS; there had been games like 
 this before COD came out in 2003. Then I did not play those games, because I did not know about 
 them -- they did not become as big a hit as COD. After playing COD and then going back to the market 
 to find and play older similar games, I realised that COD was too outstanding to be compared with 
 others -- except for the contemporary Medal of Honour. The makers of COD were really dedicated in 
 their research about WWII, so that the player can really experience the digital thrill of being 
 in the war. And they were so successful that this game stands as a masterpiece. Amazing gamaplay, 
 gr8 graphics, really good sound.... Makes u feel like u r one of ur group.. U will find urself trying 
 even to protect ur teammates... There are some unforgettable missions like the one where u raid 
 a german stronghold to rescue Capt. Ingram and Sgt. Price... Another one is the taking over of stalingrad... U 
 wont even have a bloody gun in the mission as u run across the square along with a 100 other men 
 with mg42s firing from all direction.... There are also a host of unforgettable characters like 
 Capt. Price.... I actually felt bad when we lost him... But its ok he was bak in COD2....
  I found this one better than COD2... whaddya say? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: deiviuxs
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 20, 2007 9:28 pm PT
Review:  This game is the best WWII shooter because I didn't play much of them. I have played some old MOH 
 games back on PlayStation 1 and CoD was the first WWII shooter on PC. Since, my PC is not powerful 
 enough to play CoD 2 or newer games, this was my first and best (so far) WWII shooter.
  The gameplay is interesting and it grows on you. As all, WWII shooters, you just go and kill nazics 
 which is a lot of fun. The missions are interesting and different. The graphics are good, too I 
 think because bask in old days (when this game was made) the graphics were really good. Of course, 
 now, the graphics ain't that good since of PS 3 and Xbox 360 but they don't make my eyes hurt and 
 it looks nice.
  The sound, I think is awesome. From the bullets to whole explosions it sounds really realistic. 
 The people talk realistically, too. If you have a good sound card, you really need to put volume 
 up when you playing this game because then you can feel like you in the war.
  In conclusion, this game is a legend which was/is one oft he best WWII shooters. If you haven't 
 played CoD yet then you should get this game first and then build your way to the top and don't 
 be fooled by its release date because this game is very good and it does not matter that this game 
 was made back in 2003 because this game is even better that some oft he games that were created 
 in 2006/07. Thus, if you never tried CoD and you like WWII games, then you must try this games 
 because it's the game that will stuck in your mind for a long time... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kalos7k
Rating: 9.8
Date: Apr 12, 2007 10:05 am PT
Review:  Great variety in gameplay. Well designed levels, fun AI. You'll get to drive a tank with witty 
 crewmates. Nothing lacking here.
  
  As an extra, there are significant historical references in all three campaigns: US, UK, USSR. 
 The last one really immerses you due to it's timing toward the end of the war. Years after I played 
 it, I discovered a new historical reference, that of Pavlov's House (see wikipedia) . I'd incorporate 
 this game into history classes.
  
  Sound: I'm not an audiophile so all game sounds are similarly good to me. I did like the funny 
 commentary from teammates, and there was sufficient variety in the German sayings. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LoJo10
Rating: 8.9
Date: Apr 11, 2007 9:20 am PT
Review:  You probably don't need to read this review to figure out whether or not to buy this game - because 
 a game like this one, with all the positive reviews out there - you know it's a game you can buy 
 without doing research.
  
  I do review all my games - I especially like reviewing games that pretty much no one plays - because 
 it'll help people who don't know whether they should buy it or not - the games that everyone reviews 
 are the games that in reality don't need the reveiws - you know it's a good game if everyone is 
 playing it.
  
  Anyways, graphics are good and realistic, animations are smooth.
  
  Gameplay is solid - can only carry two weapons, a pistol and grenades at a time - fun playing, 
 relatively easy on all level in my opinion - the quicksave and quickload buttons are great, because 
 you can just load quickly when you die - The only mode that so far I've found somewhat hard to 
 any extent is the Hardest mode, veteran - mainly because there is no health to be found anywhere, 
 and when you get hit you take even more damage.
  
  Sound is good, music is nice. Totally intense, gunshots are loud, you really do feel that you are 
 there. Voiceover work is even better that in Medal of Honor, if you played that. The story is well 
 written of the three campaigns, american, british, and russian.
  
  value - i played it through on the 2nd, 3rd, and now i'm playing it on the hardest level - it's 
 fun to play through.
  
  however, the first time i beat it, i was like, wow, that went by quick - the campaign is like, 
 maybe 10 hours! It seems like it totally flies by - to extend the longevity of the game, you should 
 probably start on the 3rd hardest of the 4 difficulty levels - you'll die more and it'll extend 
 out the game.
  
  Great value - multiplayer i tried, but the server area for the actual game is kind of done now 
 - no one plays, and I haven't tried gamespy arcade yet, but maybe it works okay there, but haven't 
 tried yet.
  
  Anyways, worth buying for shooter fans if you haven't already. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ng2006
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 8, 2007 3:25 am PT
Review:  I think that Call Of Duty will give you a great joy of playing a great team game. you feel the 
 war everywhere around you and you'll really get into it. Although the gore level has been reduced 
 but you smell the death and the fear in the field. Since I finished the game I shall give you some 
 points that I used and I found them useful. * First of all I think that Russian and british weapons 
 really suck. They're hard to manage and you don't fell comfortable aiming with them. But German 
 and American Rifles and submachine guns give you accuracy, good vision for aiming down and also 
 powerful fire. But to tell the truth don't trust on submachine guns while you're in the open areas 
 and fields because they're just useful for close range combat. Pistols are other uselss weapons 
 in your inventory and the worse thing is that you can't swap them with other weapons (This problem 
 has been solved in Call Of Duty 2) I mean you've got to carry a pistol all the time.
  * When you're getting close to your enemies watch for the PILIM-PILIM sound of gerenade (s) rolling 
 around you. Although your friends usually alert you for that but I believe hearing that sound can 
 help you escape faster. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: plebeb
Rating: 9.2
Date: Apr 7, 2007 9:12 am PT
Review:  Call of Duty is THEE WWII game, excellent game play, maps, realistic experience ETC. It is one 
 of the most well rated WWII shooting game ever released to the pc and all other platforms. Yes 
 it is an old game now in 2007 and the graphics are a bit lacking but it is still an incredible 
 game to play! The Single Player is a good experience and gets you used to the controls and techniques 
 ready to play the bad boys in the Multiplayer game. You will find there is over a thousand different 
 players to play against on the Multiplayer game. There is also many different game types available 
 on the Multiplayer game for you to show off your skills. But Multiplayer is not the only game type 
 for you to enjoy there is also of course the Singleplayer option, over 20 levels to do (i said 
 over) (not to sure exactly how many) . Once you have completed Call of Duty Singleplayer and wish 
 for another challange you can also buy the Call of Duty expansion pack (Call of Duty United Offensive) . 
 My advise would be to complete single player first and get the hang of things before you go onto 
 the Multiplayer game as you may find it hard. Call of Duty has many different game types such as, 
 a deathmatch where you can kill other players, or a search and destroy where you have to defuse/blow 
 the cannon up. Call of Duty aslo has many different maps for you to play about in, but it is recommended 
 that you memorise the maps before playing them as you may get lost and not know where to go. I 
 think i have covered most of the games qualitys and i hope my review has gave you a good idea about 
 call of duty and the many different features available to players. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Valeria_Vitrix
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 5, 2007 11:53 am PT
Review:  Before I played on Call of Duty I couldn't stand WW2 related games for the PC. After Call of Duty, 
 I couldn't get enough of them! This is without doubt the best and most iconic game of the Call 
 of Duty series, not only drawing its inspiration from some of the best WW2 films and TV series 
 ever produced; like Saving Private Ryan, Enemy at the Gates, and Band of Brothers, to name a few. 
 This game has it all, from the hard struggle on D-Day and the resulting battle in Northern France, 
 to the blood and guts of Stalingrad. Call of Duty is without doubt the best shooter game ever produced 
 for the PC! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sharier
Rating: 9.9
Date: Mar 31, 2007 9:27 am PT
Review:  Honestly Call of Duty really did not re-define historic war based FPS; there had been games like 
 this before COD came out in 2003. Then I did not play those games, because I did not know about 
 them -- they did not become as big a hit as COD. After playing COD and then going back to the market 
 to find and play older similar games, I realised that COD was too outstanding to be compared with 
 others -- except for the contemporary Medal of Honour. The makers of COD were really dedicated in 
 their research about WWII, so that the player can really experience the digital thrill of being 
 in the war. And they were so successful that this game stands as a masterpiece.
  In COD, you play as a both Russian and Allied force soldier in separate episodes. The assignments 
 force you to play in a certain direction, in line with an account of a real war hero. That makes 
 the experience so cool that you'd want to play it again and again. At times the difficulties are 
 too easy, and at times you will have to save the game every second to avoid repeated failed attempts 
 to complete a level. The reality based guns are really challenging at times to beat the opponents 
 and that's the fun.
  The sounds are fantastic, the graphics rock and the gameplay is really friendly once you get pass 
 your initial training.
  I believe this game will continue to appeal players even after a decade. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jasonbesto
Rating: 9.4
Date: Mar 22, 2007 12:55 am PT
Review:  I'm sure all of you like to kill like a maniac! Then Call of Duty is the right game for you. Infinity 
 Ward really made this game into a great WW2 FPS!
  
  The single player mode is really fun. Mostly you just shoot, kill and throw and sometimes it gets 
 boring but its interesting to finish.
  
  The multiplayer is absolutely awesome! you get to play with more than 60 players online in just 
 1 server! (I got to kill a guy named mandose34 )
  
  Anyway, you get to play as an American soldier at the start of the game. Its kinda confusing if your 
 a beginner in these kinds of games. But you'll get used to it. After the american soldier missions 
 thing, you get to play as a Russian then British soldier. The missions at the end of the game is 
 kinda hard too.
  
  The environments really look like a WW2 kind of place. There's destroyed buildings, fire and dead 
 enemy soldiers. (after you kill them, they'll dissappear after 5 minutes) . Generally, the environments 
 are AWESOME!!!
  
  Weapons is the partly reason of the game. The game has lots and lots of weapons. There's the MP40, MP42, MP44, Sniper 
 Rifles, Lugers and Grenades.
  The everloving TANKS will also appear in this game.
  
  The sound of the game is outstanding! It really sounds like a real WW2 game. Just use your headphone 
 and your ears will go crazy! (in a good kind of way)
  
  Overall this game is one of the best WW2 FPS's in gaming history (except for the HD FPS games of 
 the next gen consoles.) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bluey2323
Rating: 8.8
Date: Mar 21, 2007 9:14 am PT
Review:  This game is a great game. It has a fantastic multiplayer that can have up to 64 people in just 
 one server. The single player gets boring after a while but it is worth finishing. This game was 
 the begining of one of the best series of FPS's. I think that call of duty 2 is better but this 
 one is really good also. I got this game for only $10 and it was worth $50 just for the multiplayer. 
 If you dont have this game yet go buy it now. Even though it is sorta old there is a lot of multiplayer 
 matches still going on. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: damnone
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 19, 2007 6:56 am PT
Review:  There seems to be a lot of World War II games coming out, and while some of them arent worth your 
 time, Call of Duty definitely is. Brought to us by Activision, Call of Duty is based on the American, 
 British, and Russian armies as they fight German forces in Europe.
  
  The game has a good length for its genre. To keep it from feeling too long, they split it up into 
 campaigns that follow different soldiers from different countries. This allows you to see more 
 battlefields, use more weapons, and experience a variety of events. While the first two campaigns 
 are mediocre and offer nothing too new, the final campaign is amazing. It follows a Russian soldier 
 as him and his comrades try to take back Red Square. The entire campaign is breathtaking and quite 
 emotional.
  
  Before each mission you are treated to a short briefing as it loads. Each campaigns briefing is 
 done differently depending on the country which is nice. These reading breaks usually offer more 
 background on what youre about to do, so reading them is beneficial. Also, there are a few video 
 briefings featuring footage from World War II that are very interesting.
  
  The nice thing about Call of Duty is the variety to the missions. You never feel like youre doing 
 the same thing over and over, and each mission is just the right length to where it doesnt feel 
 too long. Also, the missions flow really well together, so nothing ever seems out of place.
  
  The controls are great. As with any other First Person action game on the PC you can set up 
 the keys any way you wish, although the default settings are very well mapped out.
  
  The graphics are some of the best Ive seen in a First Person Shooter (FPS) . Realistic models, 
 lighting, and textures make up each level. The wonderful sound and graphics, along with the great 
 script and AI, really make you feel as if you are there. Your AI teammates will go back for wounded 
 allies, dive to the ground to avoid mortars, provide cover fire, and work together to open up a 
 tank and drop a grenade into it. Aside from very little gore, Call of Duty is the most realistic 
 World War II experience out there. The soundtrack and sound effects are wonderful. The constant 
 gun fire and explosions make you feel as if youre actually fighting in a war, and during emotional 
 or epic moments the appropriate music will start up.
  
  I sometimes had a problem with the weapons; a lot of times they seemed very inaccurate. Otherwise, 
 the amount of damage they dealt was very realistic, depending on where they were shot. Theres 
 even a level where you control a tank, and shooting buildings with the cannon puts holes in them. 
 Grenades are useful as well, spraying shrapnel that do great damage within a certain radius of 
 the blast.
  
  Call of Duty offers traditional Deathmatch, Team Deathmatch, and Capture the Flag game modes, but 
 it brings two new ones to the table as well. Behind Enemy Lines and Search and Destroy are the 
 new game modes that offer a unique way to play. In Search and Destroy one team protects an object 
 that the other team needs to plant explosives on and destroy. Behind Enemy Lines takes a handful 
 of Allied soldiers and puts them right in the middle of tones of Axis players. If an Axis player 
 is able to kill an Allied soldier, he then spawns as an Allied soldier and the Allied soldier comes 
 back as an Axis soldier. Its a lot of fun since the Allies are greatly outnumbered. Call of Duty 
 also has a feature called the Kill Cam. If you are killed in a multiplayer game, you will be able 
 to watch the last few seconds of your life through your killers perspective. I didnt think Call 
 of Dutys multiplayer was that great. The games engine seems to be built really well for the single 
 player experience, but it just doesnt feel right as a deathmatch game. Team Deathmatch and Behind 
 Enemy Lines are really fun, but I would still rather play Medal of Honor or Battlefield 1942. It 
 feels a little slow, and the weapons are extremely inaccurate unless youre using a sniper rifle 
 like everyone else.
  
  Overall, Call of Duty is a game not to be missed. The single player missions are amazing, and if 
 you dont think so right away keep playing - the Russian campaign is like nothing youve ever played. 
 Activision has even made it easy to mod, so we can expect multiplayer mods to lengthen the replay 
 value in the future. If you have a PC capable of running Call of Duty, dont miss out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Suvirj
Rating: 9.8
Date: Mar 12, 2007 5:49 am PT
Review:  Amazing gamaplay, gr8 graphics, really good sound.... Makes u feel like u r one of ur group.. U will 
 find urself trying even to protect ur teammates... There are some unforgettable missions like the 
 one where u raid a german stronghold to rescue Capt. Ingram and Sgt. Price... Another one is the 
 taking over of stalingrad... U wont even have a bloody gun in the mission as u run across the square 
 along with a 100 other men with mg42s firing from all direction.... There are also a host of unforgettable 
 characters like Capt. Price.... I actually felt bad when we lost him... But its ok he was bak in 
 COD2....
  I found this one better than COD2... whaddya say? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: agturboninja
Rating: 9.1
Date: Mar 10, 2007 12:43 pm PT
Review:  Sure Call of Duty 2 and the Brother in Arms Road to Hill 30 and Earned in Blood are out, but it 
 is not like Call of Duty. Call of Duty was neat having good AI where you didn't need to babysit. 
 The British campaign was a bit ridculous where hundreds to thousands of Nazis are invading a bridge, 
 and you only have a dozen comrades.
  
  The Soviet Campaign was the best when you see hundreds of comrades charging the machine gun nests, 
 only to be killed. COD had the charisma COD 2 lacked. COD 2 is good but not like COD.
  
  Call of Duty will always have a place in my heart.
  
  Great game for people who like previous 
 WW2 shooters. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: WizengamotX
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 5, 2007 9:15 pm PT
Review:  Bullets flying at speeds man could only dream of achieving on land; ricocheting across the solid 
 cold concrete, splintering through wood and bone. You feel the rumble and quake of mortars; see 
 the flashes of tracers and gunshots lighting up the darkness and shadow, revealing with smoke and 
 brimstone what was previously unknown. Bodies piled high, soaking your ankles in blood as you espy 
 the MG42, slowly raise your rifle and aim down the steely iron sights. The bullet travels slow 
 but sure, knocking the helmet from your victim in a cloud of pink mist. After all, he was your 
 victim, right?
  
  With a solid 10-20 hours of gameplay for the veteran gamer, Call of Duty will definitely be worth 
 your while. As 2003 Game of the Year FPS, Call of Duty holds a position among the top 10 WWII shooters 
 of all time, hands down. Where most FPSes released 2003 revealed sub-par graphics, CoD reveals 
 a whole new level of special effects and visual eye-candy. Call of duty's sound is amazing, supporting 
 5.1 Dolby Digital EAX 3.0. WIth the right set of headphones or speaker/ sub. setup, you will feel 
 immersed in the game in no time at all, straight to the point where you will be yelling back to 
 your squadmates in the heat of battle, screaming for the god-forsaken... (okay, okay well you get 
 the picture) . CoD stands out as one of the best FPSes in my collection and a superb, essential 
 to any true addict's collection. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RedneckGamer87
Rating: 9.4
Date: Mar 1, 2007 7:56 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay: There are no shortage of World War Two shooters in the market today but when Call of 
 Duty came out it really stood out from the rest of the shooters. In this game you play as American, 
 Russian and British soldier. So you fight though diffrent mission for each campain like Cantena, 
 and the rush up to StalinGrad and so on. You cannot sprint in Call of Duty, nor can you tiptoe. 
 While standing, you move at a constant pace that's not too slow and not too fast but is just right. 
 You'll have no trouble quickly getting from point A to point B. However, when you're running from 
 cover to cover in an area that's under fire, you'll be painfully aware of how vulnerable you are. 
 You should probably keep your head down, and Call of Duty lets you easily switch between standing, 
 crouching, and prone stances. You move slower while crouching -- not too slowly though -- which makes 
 this the best way to get around when in the thick of battle. Movement, as well as turning, is understandably 
 much slower while prone. With the bulletts flying over your head you really fell the fear when 
 you might get you head blown off and you can even see the dust when you see the bullets hitting 
 the wall. Call of Duty features a wide arsenal of authentic American, British, Russian, and German 
 WWII weapons, including various rifles, submachine guns, side arms, and grenades. You can carry 
 only two larger weapons at a time (as well as a pistol and some grenades) , so, typically, you'll 
 want to have a rifle for out-in-the-open engagements and a submachine gun for tight-quarter combat. 
 While armed with any of these, you can hold the weapon to eye level and carefully aim and fire. 
 When you get up to close and personall you can use the butt of the weapon to try and club an enemy 
 to death which is pretty cool. But I still think there should of been also the use of a Bayonet.
 
  
  Graphics: The Graphics in the gameplay are amazing. You can see the fear on each of the soldiers 
 faces and the detail of the weapons and buildings are nice to look at. When you see an explotion 
 it really looks like a huge explotion with dirt and every thing around hit blowing up and when 
 bullets hit something you can see the dust when the bullet bounces off. The only thing that I did 
 not like was how little blood there was when a soldier was hit by a bullet.
  
  Sound: The soundtrack is absolutly amazing and well suits the game and gameplay. The sounds of 
 the guns sound like they should and the voice acting is well done aswell.
  
  Value: Once you are done you can head on to the Multuplayer part of the game which is very addictive. 
 You can always go back to the multuplayer and play it again and again and never get board of it.
 
  
  All in all this is a really great game to play and add to your games collection and should not 
 be missed by anyone who plays games. I recommend this game to everyone. I give this game 9 out 
 of 10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fvrl
Rating: 9.4
Date: Feb 25, 2007 7:34 pm PT
Review:  this game is very fun. the single player mode has lots of destruction and stuff to blow up. the 
 bad part about this game is that the ai can be very bad. the missions are very interesting and 
 are hard enough to be very interesting. a very good feature is that you can use any weapon that 
 you find laying on the ground. the attention to detail is very good especially the weapons. in 
 the russian campaign the yelling in russian was a nice touch. driving the tank was very fun although 
 sometimes it was a little hard to control. the explosians were very cool along with the graphics. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Strongholdluva
Rating: 9.8
Date: Feb 24, 2007 7:43 am PT
Review:  This game is great. You play as three different guys. A russian, an american, and some british 
 dude. Gameplay: Great the many missions will keep you entertained for awhile. When tthat loses 
 its touch their is always the many multiplayer games going on. Somebad not enough weapons and many 
 noobs on mltiplayer. However as you get better you can punish those cheaters and noobs. You might 
 think i'm just making it up but i joined a tourney and was in the top 5 players. The people i got 
 killed from were reported as cheating.
  
  Graphics: Beatiful graphics, great explosins, realistic looking guns and their fire when they shoot. 
 Although on multiplayer it can get a little shaky its still a great 1at person shooter. Even some 
 of the textures are done very well.
  
  Sound: I am I actually in a real fight or am I play COD? Thats how realistic it can be. MG42s sound 
 so realistic. Gun fire to say the least is awsome. Grenades, explosions, whatever you think of 
 the sound is done very well. Even voice overs are done pretty well
  
  Yeah get this game. Great multi-player, great story, and a great game. Plus its a steal at 10-20 
 dollars its a good cheap great game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DiabeticDood
Rating: 8.3
Date: Feb 23, 2007 2:57 pm PT
Review:  Call of Duty is one of my favorite WW2 games out there. It really takes you out of you playing 
 the game and really makes you feel like your in WW2. The only one disappointing this about this 
 game is. No Shores of Normandy! But soon after playing a few minutes of this game it really makes 
 it all better thats theres no shores of Normandy (just yet) one of my favorite things about this 
 game is when theres 50 guys on screen helping you win the fight. And the AI is very smart. The 
 soldiers fighting by you arent just there for show they actually help you out. The sound of this 
 game is amazing you can hear the fight continuing in the background. It blew me away. Voice acting 
 out of this world. And if a grenade gets tossed by you all you hear is a ringing tone. The multiplayer 
 in this game is very fun as well. With maps not included in the single player added to fun of it. 
 I think with this game 50 bucks is kind of a rip but since it has been out for awhile you can pick 
 it up for 10 dollars at Wal-Mart or you can get the Gold Edition with the expansion pack. And also 
 the soundtrack to the game. I think this is one incredible game. Any WW2 fan should buy this game 
 even if not into PC game WW2 fans will see how correct this game is when it comes to WW2. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zombieman666
Rating: 9.6
Date: Feb 22, 2007 2:29 pm PT
Review:  I've been playing Call Of Duty for a couple of years and still do time to time. It's a great game. 
 Let me first start off with the graphics- There alright, not horrible by todays standards but pretty 
 bad. However, the reason I gave it the score I did was because when it came out those graphics 
 were AMAZING, and breathtaking. Also, a plus is that users with a low graphics card can run it 
 easily. I got 30 FPS on lowest settings with a integrated card that came out the same time this 
 game did. The Sound is sort of a mixed reaction from me - The music is definately some of the best 
 I've ever heard in a game, And the timing que is just right. The intro movie is a great example 
 of the games fine use of classical music. However, I have a problem wtih the gun sounds- They don't 
 sound realistic at all except for the MG42 it sounds like something youd see at a play, there are 
 mods however for that but the devs should have considered putting in more realistic sounds. Gameplay 
 is balanced. except for some maps. The Russians are almost always at a loss to the superiour germans 
 in one winter map, which involves blowing up a tank with C4. There are 4 gametypes - Death match, 
 Team Death match, Search &amp; Destroy, and HQ. Death match involves Free for all, no objectives, 
 team deatch match involves a match with no objectives, teammates respawn quicker, Search &amp; 
 Destroy gives you the objective of blowing something up, whilst the other side must protect it. 
 The allies or Russians will always be the ones blowing it up. And HQ involves one team attempting 
 to set up Radio before the other and establish their HQ, then the other team must destroy it, for 
 every second is a point to them, and establish thier own radio. The Single Player is as wide and 
 enthrawling as the multiplayer, it will take you about 10 hours, and with mods you cant go wrong. 
 Not to mention some really really memorable levels/missions. Of those involve holding a bridge 
 as the british and trying to defend against a entire german unit with your squadron, Taking Berlin 
 as the Russians, And the tank battle as the Russians. As you can see- this is why i gave the value 
 and tilt a perfect 10... make sure to get Call Of Duty United Offensive if you get bored of this... that 
 game is really 10x better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: The__MCP
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 25, 2007 9:57 am PT
Review:  If you have never played a WWII first-person shooter, then you're probably in for a treat, but 
 for the rest of us who aren't shooter newbies, this has more of a been there, done that feel to 
 it, rather than any sense that you're playing a true PC classic.
  
  Online play is probably the biggest been there, done that feel. If you already spent countless 
 hours online with Medal of Honor: Allied Assault, then Call of Duty's online play is going to be 
 a mirror image. A majority of servers are the same single elimination matches where 32 players 
 are probably the most fun. Some of the maps, especially the villages are straight up boring. I'm 
 sure like most games the expansions and mods add more, and maybe even fix some of the faults of 
 the original game, but I expect at least a few classic online maps right out of the box. Like most 
 shooters, you'll probably spend more time playing online which increases the value of Call fo Duty, 
 but don't expect anything other than your typical WW2 shooter.
  
  Singleplayer is probably what bugs me the most. Okay, this is how it goes: I applaud the developers 
 for making a valiant effort to not go the typical singleplayer route, and there is a lot of heavy 
 teamwork with your cpu platoon, vehicle navigation, impromptu anti-tank gun use, and other things 
 that you normally won't find in singleplayer games. But.... the reason why you won't find them 
 in most games is because a lot of times heavy scripting and AI make the game feel less alive and 
 is difficult to pull off and still give the game a good flow, and I don't think Call of Duty escapes 
 that at all. This game has far too many obvious waypoints and scripting triggers for its own good! 
 For example, every map has several points where shooting simply stops and the Nazis disappear until 
 you reach a certain point or complete a certain objective and almost like magic -- POOF! -- the 
 Nazis reappear! A lot of stuff depends on your platoon you're travelling with and it's so bad that 
 sometimes they'll move in front of you with the game waiting for your actual character to trigger 
 the next sequence in the level. So what happens is your platoon casually sits 50 feet in front 
 of you eyeing the next waypiont, never noticing the blatantly loud Nazis (Hey! Rifles aren't that 
 hard to hear!) that spawn and shoot at your character who has lagged behind. You may not hear your 
 platoon call out to get on a nearby truck, so everyone in your platoon sit peacefully in the truck 
 for several minutes, gunfire going everywhere, while you fight off Nazis and then check your objectives 
 and suddenly realized you missed the command to escape via truck. Good intentions by the developers, 
 but lousy scripting. If you don't follow the game exactly the way they want you to, it feels like 
 a program, not a game. It's worse because so many of the levels are very small. I don't know if 
 this was done to speed up the FPS or because of so many scripted events, but most levels feel claustrophobic 
 and not a lot of creativity is put into setting your boundaries. It could be something as lame 
 as a 2 feet barb-wire fence that you can't cross, so this only enhances the poor design.
  
  After criticizing Call of Duty so much, you'd think that I would give this game a low score, but 
 for all its faults, I still managed to play most of the way through. I thought the weapon selection 
 could be boring at times. Not enough sniper missions or even a close combat shotgun bunker storming 
 to break the monotony, so I looked for cheat codes online to break out some of the more entertaining 
 weapons in the most boring missions. The game follows all the allies in WWII so there is a Russian 
 sequence at the end which I thought was probably the most fun of the entire game. Maybe it's because 
 most WWII games focus on Europe instead of the awesome sniper fest that is possible in Stalingrad, 
 but I had a lot of fun in the Russian levels. Another bonus about this game is it more closely 
 follows WWII history after D-Day than most WW2 shooters. I guess that's a bonus if you're into 
 WW2 history. If you like FPS and real-time strategy I highly recommend you play the RTS game Company 
 of Heroes to go with this because they follow many of the same events. Bottomline, it's a good 
 game, ESPECIALLY for someone who hasn't played many WWII shooter products on the market, but I 
 don't feel it deserves the high 9.0+ score it fetched from most gaming websites, including GameSpot. 
 Good shooter, but not a classic shooter. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: macpop
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 18, 2007 8:11 am PT
Review:  this game with the uo expansion is the best cod to date, and even cod2 was a disapointment for 
 me thinkin it will be 10x better than the original and i was wrong, cod2 doesnt even touch this 
 game still. cod has a awsome single and the most fun multi. the multi offers mods to the heaven 
 even for more fun. i say this game is a 10/10 the single has u on the edge of ur seat and with 
 a good sound system u think ur in the line of duty which i love and multi is intense
  
  so overall good game and best in cod series the graphics are nothing like cod2 but are best for 
 its time and gamplay is wat makes cod and uo best 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chandu83
Rating: 9.4
Date: Apr 3, 2007 10:33 am PT
Review:  After having finished Medal of Honor only recently, I was left wanting for more engrossing World 
 War 2 action. So I decided to play the highly acclaimed Call of Duty. I do not have anything different 
 to say from what countless others have already said - that the game is fantastic. I cannot recollect 
 a single incident throughout the game where I got bored. I have played the game on Pentium 4 3.0GHz 
 machine with 1.75GB DDR 400MHz RAM and a GeForce 7600GS with 256MB RAM. The game worked like a 
 charm at highest settings with 4X FSAA and 4X AF. The good part is, the game can be played on low 
 end machines with onboard video and sound without too much of a problem. Of course, the game doesnt 
 look and sound as good without all the particle effects, but the frame rates arent going to be 
 a problem.
  
  I am used a Creative Audigy Soundblaster 24-bit sound card, with EAX enabled. The sounds in the 
 game are fantastic with explosions and your teammates and enemies shouting during the batter  
 very realistic. The weapons sound good as well, the single shot of a sniper rifle is lethal and 
 the muffled sound of a sten gun sounds every convincing as well.
  
  Personally, I appreciate a good challenge in games, and as long they are not frustrating, because 
 I hate to play a game over and over. Thats one of the best aspects of Call of Duty, the game is 
 challenging, and yet, its flows at a steady paceI never got frustrated while playing the game 
 because I was constantly making progress. This was one of the reasons why I enjoyed playing this 
 game the most.
  
  Unlike Medal of Honor, your team mates have a greater role in the game; however, its always possible 
 to take on the enemies alone. In that sense, I guess the game has an arcade quality, but thats 
 not necessarily bad. The AI is pretty good, although nothing exceptional, they are not going to 
 make things any easier for you. They dont just charge in great numbers, they exhibit solid behavior 
 like taking cover etc. This makes victory more satisfying.
  
  All in all, a fantastic World War 2, which I thought was better than Medal of Honor Allied Assault. 
 Its a must-play for all FPS fans, and the good part is, it doesnt require a high end computer 
 to run the game at decent resolutions.
  
  Excellent game by all means. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jyc7792
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jan 21, 2007 10:50 am PT
Review:  When I picked up this game, I didnt really think this game would be played much after I beat the 
 campaigh. But the single player was awesome, but also sadley short. Then, after single player I 
 got into the multiplayer and found so much more to the game. Competing online is the most fun ive 
 had in a long long time. This multiplayer ranks up with CC and all those other guys. With practice, 
 you can join clans, learn how to play better, and most of all dominate on the battle field. The 
 sounds, graphics, and feel of the game are great, and if you have a good graphics card, looks so 
 much better on all high deatails. Once again, the single player is very, very good, but the multiplayer 
 online gaming is the best it can get for me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 1Lonehawk
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jan 20, 2007 8:45 pm PT
Review:  Let me start off by saying I'm not even a big fan of WWII games. I picked this one up (the war 
 chest actually) on the advice and suggestions of the community here at gamespot as the game to 
 use to get into FPS again. I haven't played any FPS in a long while since back in the MoHAA days.
 
  
  Anyways, this game surprised me in a great way. I found it easy to learn, easy to configure and 
 great fun once I started doing the missions.
  
  The graphics in this game came as a shock as to how good they are. I especially like the way they 
 did the night sky and the anti aircraft guns firing away at the planes. I found myself just standing 
 around looking at that while my comrades in arms where yelling at me to get a move on! LOL. Really 
 made me feel at home as that usually happens to me at work too. :P
  
  The sound in this game is excellent too. Everything just sounds pretty darn real. The game play 
 is solid so far. I'm playing the game out of the box without any patches. I don't know if there 
 even are any, but so far, I haven't seen any need for one. The ai in the game seems very cool. 
 If I fall behind, my teammates yell at me to get a move on, they warn of all kinds of situations 
 etc. I actually forget sometimes they are AI characters. That impresses me.
  
  The controls are nice and simple yet intuitive. That's saying a lot from me as like i said, i'm 
 playing this game to get into FPS for almost the first time. If I am comfortable with the controls, 
 then I think anyone would be. The screen is not cluttered with a bunch of confusing stuff either. 
 What's there is useful and I use it. So far, I haven't found myself saying, I wish they had this 
 or that displayed. 
  
  The game as a whole really seems to capture the intensity of what it must be like to be in a war 
 situation. Very intense indeed.
  
  All in all, I find this game fun and immersive. I never used to like FPSs, and I don't even know 
 why I wanted to try one again; but after playing this game for as much as i have so far, I'm sure 
 glad I picked this one up.
  
  Granted this review is from a newbie to FPSs, but if there are any others new to FPSs out there 
 looking for a gem of a game at an affordable price to get into, this one is a winner. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: benJaminGamerX
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 15, 2007 9:39 am PT
Review:  This is an awesome game, excelent graphics and fun multi player. You can set different difficulties 
 for beginers or very difficult. it doesnt take long to get all the controls. I recomend that you 
 buy it, good value! There are lots of offline missions, if you enable cheats you can play any map 
 you want (helpful if you accidentally delete the saved game) there are a lot of weapons too. You 
 can even drive a tank! it doesnt demand too much from your computer so it rarely freezes or slows 
 down. with other cheats you can do a lot of things, like go through walls, or never die, but that 
 just takes the fun out of it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: S0mEGuY12
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jan 9, 2007 9:20 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay: Although this review is a little late, this game is a great game with an awesome single 
 player and a good multiplayer.. The single player starts you out with a guy named Martin... and that 
 guy is you! you just do some training in the beginning if your a beginner of First Person Shooters 
 (which i highly doubt) anyways this game is great! Greenhorn level is still pretty hard and Regular 
 is even harder.. it is almost hard to survive in Hardened and Veteran since if you cannot survive 
 well in Greenhorn and Regular how can you survive in the higher ones? There are a large variety 
 of weapons belonging to several of each union... the Thompson, MP40, MP44, PPSh are the submachine 
 guns in order, America (and British too) , German for MP40 and 44, and the PPSh which is a favorite 
 of mine since it has the superior ability to shoot up to 71 bullets so you have no worry of reloading, good 
 for clearing rooms, can hold up to 355 bullets, and although its hard to kill from range, in Multiplayer 
 it has good Suppression Fire to keep your enemies heads down and it hits random places so its bound 
 to hit your enemies! the M1Garand, Kar98k, Lee Enfield, and the Mosin Nagant is the Rifles in order 
 like last time... all these weapons have advantages and weaknesses... but they are all easy to master! 
 Single player lets you play America first, then british, then the Soviet Union (Russians) The Soviet 
 Union reminds me of the Imperial Guard from Dawn of war... since they execute cowards... the number 
 of missions you get are a bit short but they seem longer since its hard to survive...
  
  Graphics: Once Again, although this review is late.. even in its times, call of duty has only great 
 graphics... the Enviorments are pretty good... the only thing bad about it is the expression on your 
 Allies faces... when they are shooting they look... deranged... nontheless graphics are still pretty 
 good.
  
  Sound: This is about the greatest thing about the game!! the sounds of the weapons are just plain 
 awesome and match their looks and their names... voice acting is okay and the game tends to get 
 funny at times..
  
  Value: I am a hybrid fan of RPG/RTS/FPS/ and a few others i prolly played but dont remember the 
 Genre.. since i like first person shooters i love this game!! Every FPS fan should!
  
  Tilt: Buy it Buy it Buy it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: General919
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jan 9, 2007 3:01 am PT
Review:  Call of Duty still played by thousands today online is the game that introduced Aiming down Site 
 ADS and several game types.
  
  After playing for several years on a Intel extreme Gfx chip rofl 12 fps I went 6600gt and was able 
 to get good frame rates .The single player expiriernce is revolutionary to every Fps you see today 
 ,the multiplayer is one of the best online combats you could ever face with Clans scrimming each 
 other over and over .Tho I find the russian weapon the ppsh very annoying as its spam is nothing 
 but ubernoob 337 buisness stick with broadban connection and play in your local servers and you 
 will have an enjoyable expieirience except for the people swearing at you for spamming and calling 
 you a noob rofl.
  
  I still play call of duty online under the name of 'Taint' I play in AusCod servers. Overall the 
 graphics are descent and look better with AA on and a high resolution display but the quality of 
 it will send you back for a hundredth slice of the games quality that changed all games . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: icepop4who
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jan 6, 2007 9:17 pm PT
Review:  Call of Duty is one of the best WWII games I have ever played, and it's still is in 2006. although 
 company of heroes, brothers in arms, call of duty 2/3 gave the original CoD a run for its money, 
 it still holds ground in the WWII genre. The most prominent feature in CoD is the sound. Armed 
 with Creative EAX technology, the sound came to life on the battlefield as bullets wizz past you 
 and ear-piercing MGs lay hordes of suppression fire on your position. The incredible music score 
 also helped to establish the atmosphere in the chaos of war. The graphics are nice, but no where 
 as elaborate as newer games such as FEAR or HL2. The textures are soft and lightning is elementry. 
 However, the effects and the incredible atmosphere just blurs your mind, giving this game a much 
 better than it would on another game. I highly recommend this game. Even today. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: geitenvla
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 6, 2007 5:02 am PT
Review:  Call of duty is a fast playing first person shooter staged in WWII. The game play is fast and smooth, 
 like it should be in any FPS. You can configure / remap the keyboard layout to your own needs, 
 so no there's no problem for any regular FPS-player in learning the controls... it's as easy as 
 the come and that's a good thing! You never die because you couldn't hit that obscure button combination 
 in one time. Don't be fooled; the action is fast... especially when you play on the higher difficulty 
 levels where you are not as bulletproof as on the lower levels. The enemy AI isn't too bad either. 
 They do a good job finding you (and aiming) , even if you plan to corner yourself outside the battlefield. 
 Only problem is you have to trigger it by crossing some magic line. You can perfectly run around 
 like a headless chicken and not getting shot if you do not cross the line that sets of the events 
 in a level, which sometimes makes it feel too scripted and staged. The upside on this story is, 
 when you do go with the flow you'll get a feeling you are actually part of a battlefield and some 
 nice surprises await you. Your platoon AI can be somewhat anoying especially in tight spaces when 
 they're blocking a doorway. They do shoot at they enemy though and the got a fair aim. You'll need 
 that when you're way overpowered by the germans.
  
  Mission example: You are a russian soldier and you are told not to take one step back, if you do, 
 you will be executed on sight. (Unfortunatly they only shoot a retreating NPC, but you can run 
 back all you like) They are handing out guns but only to the lucky, so you end up with just 5 bullets... 
 find your gun on the battlefield mate :) Bullets flying everywhere, bombs going off, the whole 
 city is shaking in terror and burning to the ground... this really made me think: are they out 
 of their f*ing minds? Running through this field, ducking for cover really gave me a feeling of 
 the kind of distress these men must have felt. You feel helpless and you are scared to die... all 
 you can do is hoping not to get shot while you see you comrads falling next to you. One word: atmosphere!
 
  
  The graphics are fair, not the best I've ever seen but certainly not the worst either. In general 
 they're ok. Nothing special but you won't get your eyes hurt while playing. You get a few options 
 to set your performance but nothing new here - just does what it is supposed to do. What I really 
 like is how they got rid of the invissible walls. They solved this by using minefields to determine 
 the edge of the map. This way you have a wide view around you which gives you the IMPRESSION to 
 be on a large map.
  
  The sound is SUPERB! Not only does everything sounds like it's supposed to do, but also a lot of 
 little ambient sound tricks fill up the environment. Is that a talking German or a radio around 
 the corner!? You just don't know. (first time you play that is) The guns sound good although I 
 must admit I don't have real life expierence with WWII guns.
  
  As for WII shooters, I really like playing this one. The difficulty is just right, especially when 
 played on the hardend level. This give the most realistic feeling 'cause you die pretty fast if 
 being hit by a bullet or explosion. If that's not you thing, you can always set it to easy which 
 makes the game, well... easy.
  
  As for the replay value, there is little to find. Your only option is to play it on a harder difficulty 
 level. Because everything's being so staged, your second run through the game will be virtually 
 the same as the first one. This might be fun after 6 months, but it won't make you pick up the 
 game continuously.
  
  Call of duty is a really good show in which you can participate. You get a chance of being on a 
 WWII battlefield and find out what kind of soldier you are! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sahfire
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jan 3, 2007 6:55 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay: 9
  The level of realism make the gun fights in this game pretty theatrical. The scripted moments only 
 added to the realism as comrades help fallen friends or check ahead for danger only to get sniped. 
 My only gripe is that weapons seemed pretty inaccurate, and the aiming animation made it harder 
 to see than without it.
  
  Graphics: 10
  This will vary depending on your PC setup, but on what I have, it looks wonderful. Easily one of 
 the best looking games of its genre, character model animations, and textures are very real - you 
 can even see facial expressions on fellow soldiers. The environments are so well mapped and the 
 level design is creative while still looking like the actual locations. If you maximize the graphics 
 to its highest level.. its really good.
  
  Sound: 10
  Im not sure what sniper rifles, machine guns, flak cannons, etc actually sound like, but Im sure 
 Call of Duty got them sounding pretty close to what they really sound like. Not only the sound 
 effects and voice acting, but the music is also done very well.
  
  Value: 9
  Call of Duty offers an experience you cant find anywhere else. During some of the battles its 
 hard not to get emotional since some of the writing and voice acting is so well done. Plus with 
 good graphics and sound, it all comes together as an epic battle not to be missed, It's all worth 
 the money. The multiplayer is great and can hook you up for hours. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ak_samurai
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jan 2, 2007 5:46 am PT
Review:  In war, no one fights alone. From the fields of France to the Volga River-from the smallest squads 
 dropped behind enemy lines, to the massive divisons that won on multiple fronts-the soldiers of 
 the Allied Forces stopped the German Army by standing and fighting together, side by side. In Call 
 of Duty , you get to fight alongside your brothers-in-arms as history comes alive. In momentous 
 battles from D-Day to stlingard, you'll fight as Americanparatroopers and British commandoes and 
 as a yong Russian soldier conscripted into the Soviet Army. Whether cut off in a village in Normandy, 
 battling to re-take Red Square ,boarding and sinking a German battleship, speeding down German-held 
 roads or rescuing Alliedofficer from a Geman stronghold , the danger are more than any one soldier 
 can overcome. To make it through, you'll need your buddies around you ,and they'll need you. That's 
 what war is about, and it's what Call ofDuty is all about. The Graphics and Sound quality is superb 
 and also a game play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bgdiner
Rating: 9.7
Date: Dec 29, 2006 1:27 pm PT
Review:  Where do I start? Call of Duty. Recently, the games, *cough 2 and three cough* have been okay, 
 but didn't capture the fine moments Call of Duty has to offer.
  
  The graphics are outstanding. I'll actually go out on a limb and say that they are better than 
 some of the more recent action-history games that have come out. The sound is better than anything 
 I have heard in my entire life. It really captures the feel and tension of the battle, like during 
 the retaking of Red Square in Stalingrad near the end of the game, or the spine-tingling, flank-watching 
 scares during the American mission in which you must save an important British RAF commander. The 
 only bad thing about this game is an issue with its multiplayer. Don't get me wrong, the multiplayer 
 is excellent, in fact, much better than Halo 2's. Sadly though, for newcomers, multiplayer turns 
 you off somehow. Maybe its the one-respawn rule, like Counter-Strike, or that everyone is just 
 much, much better than you. When I tried multiplayer after beating the entire game on Veteran (not 
 an easy feat) , I still was killed in the opening minute of the game. If you are really serious 
 about multiplayer, I suggest getting together with a group of friend s who play and having a LAN 
 match to brush up on important skills. If you stay low and hide in a bush online, what's the point.
 
  THis is not the game you play before Brothers in Arms though. You'll get too hyped-up and get 
 yourself killed by an MG42. Looking for an excellent game? Look here. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: snarekick
Rating: 9.6
Date: Dec 25, 2006 10:31 pm PT
Review:  The Good: Solid gameplay; Explosive sound; Highly intense; Great voice casting; Quite long; Never 
 a dull moment; A. I. couldn't be better; Interesting playing other armies rather than just the Americans; 
 Bottom line INCREDIBLE!
  
  The Bad: Physics are a little laid off; Graphics could've been a little better.
  
  There's 
 no question about it. Call of Duty is one of the best games based upon the World War 2 genre. From 
 its powerful sound to amazing gameplay, it's hard to find negatives in this game.
  
  When they advertise the Call of Duty games in the media, they explain that Call of Duty is THE 
 most intense WW2 experience. And luckily, the marketers have been right for once. When the Hulk 
 was being marketed, so many companies wanted to be supporting the movie. Then the movie somewhat 
 stunk. What do you do now?
  
  Call of Duty is quite intense. There really is, never a dull moment. The war is truly brought to 
 life in so many perfect ways. Men get killed all around you. Explosions are everywhere. Bullets 
 fly around you 75% of the time. You can't get more real then that. The excellent voice casting 
 adds to its realism as well.
  
  Playing as the Americans, British and Russians is very interesting, viewing the battles from different 
 perspectives. I must say, the British campaign was a blast to the play, more plain fun than the 
 others. Though it still had its intensity in it, the British give you more of an enjoyable time 
 with their personalities. Playing as the Americans is also a fun ride, but a little more intense. 
 The Russian campaign is a complete different story. It is THE most intense part of the game. Their 
 battle for the Motherland, shooting with their partial wooden weapons, can get overwhelming at 
 times. Another great thing about the Russian campaign, is that it's long. Just like the others, 
 but it seems more realistic in battle length and realism that the other campaigns.
  
  Call of Duty sounds amazing. You'll hear all the details of battle, if you have surround sound 
 for your computer. Good gameplay is one of the most important things in every game. This game nails. 
 There's really no faults in it, and only being able to carry two weapons is a little grounding, 
 but still realistic and overall acceptable.
  
  With no bugs, there really is only two things I had a problem with in Call of Duty. The one that 
 many people agree with, is the physics. They aren't quite like Medal of Honor''s. When you shoot 
 a window, it doesn't break. When you blow something up near a box, the box doesn't blow up. When 
 you toss a gernade at a German, they just fly in the air. At least they could've flown across the 
 room or something.
  
  The second thing, that not many people agree with, is the graphics. I just thought they could've 
 been a little more detailed, a little less choppy and more smooth. Still they're good enough for 
 a 2003 game.
  
  The bottom line is, Call of Duty is superb. Pure adrenaline from beginning to the end. It's a little 
 better than Medal of Honor: Allied Assault, but that game has its things too. If you haven't played 
 a Call of Duty game yet, start yourself with the first. It may give you a hint why this series 
 is so highly acclaimed. After all, it is one of the best games I'VE ever played. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ajmaddix
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 23, 2006 10:31 pm PT
Review:  Wow, the only word that forms in my mind. This game really gives the feeling of World War 2. A. I. 
 is great, they act, cover fire, and move around as a team. They actually hit enemies too!!!! Some 
 medal of honor games, your teamates on singleplayer, dont get any hits on enemies. Call of Duty 
 was something that made me want to be educated in World War 2, and when i finally got it, well 
 it made me one of the happiest kids to play in World War 2. Multiplayer is great, I love taking 
 an M1 Garand and killing my friends online with it. There's really nothing left to say except that 
 this game makes me want to dance to the BeeGees while eating popcorn and getting the crap beaten 
 out of me by my cats. Its that great. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: IbnAbdulHakim
Rating: 9.3
Date: Dec 23, 2006 6:20 am PT
Review:  I've been playing Call Of Duty for a couple of years and still do time to time. It's a great game. 
 Let me first start off with the graphics- There alright, not horrible by todays standards but pretty 
 bad. However, the reason I gave it the score I did was because when it came out those graphics 
 were AMAZING, and breathtaking. Also, a plus is that users with a low graphics card can run it 
 easily. I got 30 FPS on lowest settings with a integrated card that came out the same time this 
 game did. The Sound is sort of a mixed reaction from me - The music is definately some of the best 
 I've ever heard in a game, And the timing que is just right. The intro movie is a great example 
 of the games fine use of classical music. However, I have a problem wtih the gun sounds- They don't 
 sound realistic at all except for the MG42 it sounds like something youd see at a play, there are 
 mods however for that but the devs should have considered putting in more realistic sounds. Gameplay 
 is balanced. except for some maps. The Russians are almost always at a loss to the superiour germans 
 in one winter map, which involves blowing up a tank with C4. There are 4 gametypes - Death match, 
 Team Death match, Search &amp; Destroy, and HQ. Death match involves Free for all, no objectives, 
 team deatch match involves a match with no objectives, teammates respawn quicker, Search &amp; 
 Destroy gives you the objective of blowing something up, whilst the other side must protect it. 
 The allies or Russians will always be the ones blowing it up. And HQ involves one team attempting 
 to set up Radio before the other and establish their HQ, then the other team must destroy it, for 
 every second is a point to them, and establish thier own radio. The Single Player is as wide and 
 enthrawling as the multiplayer, it will take you about 10 hours, and with mods you cant go wrong. 
 Not to mention some really really memorable levels/missions. Of those involve holding a bridge 
 as the british and trying to defend against a entire german unit with your squadron, Taking Berlin 
 as the Russians, And the tank battle as the Russians. As you can see- this is why i gave the value 
 and tilt a perfect 10... make sure to get Call Of Duty United Offensive if you get bored of this... that 
 game is really 10x better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: -L-U-I-S-
Rating: 9.7
Date: Dec 21, 2006 1:41 pm PT
Review:  I got Call of Duty merely 2 days ago. Being a game from 2003 I didn't expect that much honestly. 
 But this game is just amazing, too much intensity that you even feel the pressure of it. Such intensity 
 is pretty rare to find. You fire to some guy in some place and then another comes from behind or 
 from the side, point is, you either pay attention or you die. The graphics are just magnificent 
 even though its an old game and that my card is kinda old too, but wow I'm amazed by those. The 
 Al is quite good I must say, for both comrades and teammates. The sound... perfect. Also with all 
 that action going on at once, no lag, thats ight, not a single lag, not a single framerate drop, 
 everything runs smoothly. Gameplaywise... I would give a 11/10 but 10/10 is the max so yeah :P. 
 I see why it got a Game of the Year award in 2003. Gamers that love much action in games should 
 definitely buy this jewel 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GromSniper51
Rating: 9.2
Date: Dec 18, 2006 1:50 am PT
Review:  Call of duty is the best world war 2 game i have ever played. and i have played the whole medal 
 of honor series, and castle wolfeinstein. one of the best things about it is that it has an American, 
 British, and RUSSIAN campaign. this is the only game i have heard of with a russian campaign. the 
 guns are sweet. single player is awesome and so is multiplayer. the graphics are great and so is 
 the sound. the missions are alot of fun. you even get to drive a tank and that is really cool. 
 there is a ton of missions but they dont take that long. the only bad thing about this game is 
 that the single player was too short cuz i absouletuly loved it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: brad11344
Rating: 8.7
Date: Dec 13, 2006 2:09 pm PT
Review:  Graphics: This game had really nice graphics. You can see the guy blinking and talking and the 
 bushes moving in the wind, so nice graphics. The building and vehicles are filled with nice detail 
 also
  
  Gameplay: The game play is great your just running up on ppl or sneeking up on them and shooting 
 them down to the floor. Everything moves at a fast pace some times but nothing u cant handle, just 
 great fun
  
  Sound: sound is good u can hear the guy running beside you, your guy breathing and the music and 
 vehicles sound good
  
  Overall: If your look for a pretty cheap wwII game you should get this! its fun and the online 
 is okay. BUT you cant drive anything unless u get united offence, but if i were you i would get 
 battlefield 1942 or bf vietnam because its way better! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kryu88
Rating: 9.3
Date: Dec 4, 2006 11:03 am PT
Review:  With the benchmark of all World War II shooters being Medal of Honor, how can any other game even 
 hope to come close? Well, Call of Duty comes close, then blows it away with real life graphics, 
 immersive gameplay, excellent sound design, and awesome multiplayer modes.
  
  In the single player mode, you play as a random U. S., British, or Russian soldier who is fighting 
 to free Europe from Nazi control. Which is kind of the standard in all World War II shooters. You 
 begin as an American in the campaign after the events of D-Day, you parachute in and are immediately 
 under Nazi fire. That is one of the great aspects of this game, you can't just stick your head 
 out and shoot whenever, you have to pay attention to when the enemy is firing and reloading then 
 blow their brains out. The realism of dying in one or two shots can be frustrating at times, but 
 compared to the superhuman endurance of other shooters its a welcome change. From the events of 
 the D-Day invasion you continue your long march across Europe to reach Berlin. After you reach 
 a certain point you change perspective to a random British soldier whos plane gets shot down and 
 must regroup with any allies in the area. From there you take over and defend a bridge all the 
 while trying to stay alive. After you get done with the British missions you play as a Russian 
 soldier who is taking part in the attempt to retake Stalingrad. This is a very hard point in the 
 game due to the fact that you have no weapon half the time. From there you eventually reach Berlin.
 
  
  The immersive gameplay really brings you into the terrors of war. The sound design makes it feel 
 like a bullet really just zoomed past your head and the sound of a grenade falling near you makes 
 you almost jump out of your seat. The graphics bring the fight to you, the barrage of an machine 
 gun scares the poo out of you sometimes and the environments look like authentic European battlefields. 
 From the grassy fields in France, to the destroyed towns, crumbling buildings, intricit bunkers, 
 and the grey dull sky you really feel like your in Europe fighting in this war. The gun design 
 is very authentic, the guns in this game are: Kar98k, MP 40, MP44, ScopedKar98k, MG42, M1 Garand, 
 M1 A1 Carbine, Thompson, BAR, Springfield, Lee Enfield, Sten, Bren LMG, Scoped Enfield, Mosin Nagant, 
 PPsh, and Scoped Mosin.
  
  And the multiplayer in this game is simply one of the best multiplayer games you can possibly play. 
 The different games types really mix up the gameplay: of course there is Deathmatch and TeamDeathmatch, 
 but there is also Search and Destroy where one team tries to plant explosives at certain points 
 on the map and the other team has to stop them. Behind Enemy Lines where a small group of allied 
 soldiers face off against a large group of axis soldiers. Headquarters where a radio is to be captured 
 and held for 45 seconds for 45 points and the team with the most points wins. And Retrieval where 
 one team has to retrieve an item from the enemy camp and take it back to their own. Simply the 
 best multiplayer in a World War II game.
  
  Overall Call of Duty is an awesome WWII shooter with excellent single player campaign and an even 
 better multiplayer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hoopman3
Rating: 8.8
Date: Dec 3, 2006 2:56 pm PT
Review:  Call of Duty is a fantastic shooter on any level, and despite taking place in the increasinly clique 
 WWII setting it sets itself apart from the competition. Gameplay in CoD is immensly satisfying. 
 The weapons in the game are extremely satisfying, and the enemies even more satisfying to kill. 
 The sound of CoD really sets it apart from the rest. This sound creates an unprecedent intensity 
 in the game. More so than any war shooter before, CoD really feels like you're there, fighting 
 alongside comrades in an epic struggle. Graphics are great, gameplay is great, sound is fantastic, 
 and it features a not-exceptional, yet still satisfying single-player campaign. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jhombi
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 26, 2006 1:56 pm PT
Review:  Call of duty is a fps set during ww2. You take command of the americans, russians and british to 
 fight the nazis. Gameplay is great with realistic visuals and sound to keep you on the edge of 
 your seat. When bombs go off near you, it goes into a slow moe effect making everything grayish 
 and slow. Unfortunately this only happens to you so if youre in a multiplayer match (ive seen this 
 happen) and you go slow mo, it only affects oyou and youll move really slow until it waears off. 
 This can be especially frustrating in search and destroy because you only have one life. Multiplayer 
 is a blast providing you can find someone online. I would definately reccomment this game especially 
 because its only like 10-20$. so go grab it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Player5KJ
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 25, 2006 8:40 pm PT
Review:  this game takes u into the biggest battles of WWII i mean it i have problabley beaten this game 
 over a Thousand times i mean it i bet a lot of u have beaten COD1 a thousand times also the Multiplayer 
 is amazing. ha my cousin says pepsi is not good for u dont believe that because pepsi has a great 
 i dont know what hes thinking but its weird. sorry i got off topic all in all COD1 2 and 3 and 
 the rest of them are the greatest FPS's ever. so thats it. i love these games!! SGT Moody what 
 a great name. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jirca87
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 23, 2006 11:54 pm PT
Review:  I got this after I played the demo and was blown away by it. I got it soon after it came out, and 
 played it non-stop until I beat the campaign. As far the single-player goes, the battles were intense 
 and made me feel almost like I was there. The idea of splitting the game into American, British, 
 and Russian campaigns was great, as well. The sound for the game is among the best I've heard in 
 WWII shooters, as well. Unfortunately, that's where the fun stops. The graphics, while providing 
 a realistic terrain, is lacking in character textures, and the game suffers for it. Once the single-player 
 campaigns were done, there wasn't much else to do. The online play was nearly unbearable, as it 
 generally moved extremely slow, despite it being a WWII FPS. The lack of choices in character models, 
 as well as generally poorly designed levels, made it not only difficult to play the levels, but 
 also nearly impossible to distinguish who was who on your team. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: simpaticoman
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 23, 2006 9:16 am PT
Review:  I do believe what people say about second parts. They usually are worse than the original. In this 
 very case being a WWII fan COD and COD2 are just amazing. I finished the 2nd one first and I am 
 about to finish the original. Glorious moments of digital war. But amongst all of them Stalingrand 
 and the Red sq charge is just amazing. I do not remember to hear any music because you get so inmersed 
 that you won't believe how addictive it is. Please do yourself a favour and make yourself a beautiful 
 Xmas gift. You won't regret it in hundred lives. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: elvisbond
Rating: 9.7
Date: Nov 23, 2006 8:18 am PT
Review:  This is one of the most fun single player games of all time. It is totally what the hype says and 
 this game deserved the medeals it got. Thee only downside is the multiplayer, its fun but nothing 
 compared to the second, and in my opinon the first call of duty single player campahin is alot 
 better. You need to get this game, i think its now under 20 dollars, so BUY IT. and if you say 
 to yourself, i have the second one so i dont need the first, WRONG, yes you do!!!!!!!! THe Campahin 
 is 100 times better. this is one of the greatest games of all time and it just is AWESOME AWESOME 
 AWESOME AWESOME AWESOME SUPER DUPER AWESOME!!!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Pinkyimp
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 22, 2006 10:32 am PT
Review:  this game is awsome i played it all the way through till my brother finished the ending of the 
 game and the whole time iwas in awe, they captured the WW2 flavor and made it there own and made 
 a increadible game.
  
  Pros:
  -Great singleplayer
  -Great multiplayer
  -Nice realism of WW2
  -Guns look and sound like there supposed to
  
  Cons-
  -Different 
 types of multiplayer games to choose from
  
  overall this game is a absolute must have for any pc fan the game jsut flows together and creats 
 a immersive experence like no other and i had absolut fun with it 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DREU66
Rating: 9.4
Date: Nov 21, 2006 1:03 am PT
Review:  Es un juego realmente impresionante te sientes como si estuvieses combatiendo codo con codo con 
 tus camaradas en la II Guerra Mundial. Tiene unos gr&aacute; ficos extraordinarios, un sonido impresionante 
 y unas misiones variadas e inmersivas. Los tres distintos personajes te acercan a la Gran Guerra 
 desde tres puntos de vista distintos. En la campa&ntilde; a rusa, al m&aacute; s puro estilo Enemigo 
 a las Puertas, te lanzas casi desarmando contra el enemigo o ejerces de francotirardor. En la campa&ntilde; a 
 americana te sumerges en &eacute; picas batallas a campo abierto o luchando casa por casa. Mientras 
 que en la campa&ntilde; a inglesa, normalemente, te introducir&aacute; s en las l&iacute; neas enimigas 
 para misiones de comandos.
  
  Perhaps, the best FPS about the II World War. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: WertyYtrewCOD2
Rating: 9.4
Date: Nov 12, 2006 1:17 pm PT
Review:  My favorite game on the pc and my favorite of the series, is all it made to be. From shooting germans 
 to flanking and destroying tanks, Call of Duty has it all and more! First to start out with the 
 gameplay. Running around shooting Hitler's nazi soldiers may be getting old, but Call of Duty makes 
 that fun by giving you a great selection weapons in each of the great levels is one thing, great 
 realism and effects make it look like your right there in the battle watching the war wage on. 
 That is not the only great part of COD, but the campaign beginning where there is short footage 
 of the actual war and explanation of battles too come. Squad support makes the mgame game good 
 because there is always somebody to cover your advance on a tank or mg nest. The sound is wonderful, 
 feeling like your weapon is shooting right next to you out the computer. When your squad leader 
 tells you what to do, you always hear him well and it sounds like your own personal Lt. or Cpt. 
 thats giving you orders. The graphics are very good and keep you attracted to the realistic people 
 who support you and are against you. Sometimes you will think you're actually fighting in the war. 
 The value of the game is great because not only are there plenty of levels, but there is multiplayer 
 where you will play against other people all across the world. One unfare part of mutiplayer is 
 veteran level of damege you and your enemy's take. You will shoot at somebody and they will shoot 
 back, usually you die instead of them. Noobs are great to kill when you can't seem to score any 
 points. The all out value of this game is great, not perfect... but you really should think about 
 trying this great game out sometime. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bloodbore8
Rating: 8.9
Date: Nov 12, 2006 11:15 am PT
Review:  This WWII game called Call of Duty has some fun objectives in the game and spices it up every now 
 and then with a whole new objective or environment. Call of Duty is a great game reminiscent of 
 great action games like Halo that have blown our heads off with top-notch gameplay and a variety 
 of objectives and good graphics that makes a first-person shooter never get old.
  
  In Call of Duty, you'll play as an American soldier, a British soldier, and even a Soviet. You'll 
 play as the American soldier during D-Day and a few other battles. You'll command a British soldier 
 as you invade German camps with prisoners of war, and even more. As a Soviet, you'll retake Stalingrad 
 and Red Square, as well as taking over, Berlin.
  
  Like most WWII shooters, Call of Duty doesn't have a storyline except for you going out there, 
 risking your life, and killing Nazis. However, Call of Duty doesn't need a great storyline to make 
 a great game. What it does need though is a gun, a pistol, some friendly Allied soldiers, and a 
 great variety of objectives that'll keep you busy and strapped to your seats wondering what's going 
 to happen next.
  
  The objectives range from exploding turrets with explosives, killing Germans, going to places, 
 racing up buildings and destroying all german resistance, and more. Some objectives you'll only 
 do in the game a few times which adds some variety.
  
  If you have an online internet connection, take this game to multiplayer. it allows for a lot of 
 fun moments that you'll look back and say, Yep, that was a whole lot of fun. If you're buying this 
 just for the single-player, this is a good thing to buy but the great multiplayer increases the 
 great action experience in Call of Duty.
  
  The graphics are pretty good, though not perfect, they're pretty darn good. Just like the sound 
 which is great. The sound makes the game a more cinematech experience that you should not miss 
 out on.
  
  Call of Duty's single-player will let an average gamer blow through it in 9-11 hours. However, 
 the multiplayer adds a lot of extra fun to the game if you're looking for an experience you can 
 challenge your friends in. Overall, it's a great game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Marko218
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 11, 2006 5:57 am PT
Review:  This game is one of the greatest WW2 First Person Shooters yet made.
  
  although the weapon choice isnt as big as in some other games, the campaign is realy fun and to 
 be played many times. The online play is simply awesome and what WW2 fans would expect from a FPS 
 game. The games real exitement lies in its combat expierience, witch is the best Ive seen so far. 
 Shellshock from granades, intens combat along side with your allies and axis friends :D
  
  All nations: American, British, Russian and German have their own weapons, although some british 
 and american have the pistols or snipers, the other stuff is nearly unique, including granades.
 
  
  A lost of Glories battles fought in WW2 are included. Many people play this game online! MANY!! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jamsheedk
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 11, 2006 2:02 am PT
Review:  CALL OF DUTY, do you think this is a buissness game? you are absolutely wrong. It is a good example 
 for a bright FPS. call of duty, is a fps in which you are in put into the smokefilled battlefields 
 of WORLD WAR2.. this has a good example of great graphics. (no cows are really dead) . so go on play 
 the game to know its taste. also we have a company of well trained soldiers. this is a great advantage. although 
 we have to attend some missions or some parts alone....
  CALL OF DUTY, do you think this is a buissness game? you are absolutely wrong. It is a good example 
 for a bright FPS. CALL OF DUTY, do you think this is a buissness game? you are absolutely wrong. 
 It is a good example for a bright FPS. CALL OF DUTY, do you think this is a buissness game? you are 
 absolutely wrong. It is a good example for a bright FPS. CALL OF DUTY, do you think this is a buissness 
 game? you are absolutely wrong. It is a good example for a bright FPS. CALL OF DUTY, do you think 
 this is a buissness game? you are absolutely wrong. It is a good example for a bright FPS. CALL OF 
 DUTY, do you think this is a buissness game? you are absolutely wrong. It is a good example for 
 a bright FPS. CALL OF DUTY, do you think this is a buissness game? you are absolutely wrong. It is 
 a good example for a bright FPS. CALL OF DUTY, do you think this is a buissness game? you are absolutely 
 wrong. It is a good example for a bright FPS. CALL OF DUTY, do you think this is a buissness game? you 
 are absolutely wrong. It is a good example for a bright FPS. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: axionrecall
Rating: 9.4
Date: Oct 30, 2006 5:34 am PT
Review:  Back in early 2003 I started hearing things about a game called Call of Duty. It was being developed 
 by a new games studio and it just looked like any of the dozens of WWII shooters that were the 
 flavor du jour. I put it out of my mind until I saw some more screenshots of the almost finished 
 build and it started too look interesting. It wasn't until the demo was released that I finally 
 realized the genius that was Call of Duty. One of the first things that caught my attention was 
 the great use of the aiming down the sight function, while some previous games had had this feature 
 it was still viable to go through most of those games without using the feature. But it was sort 
 of necessary to use it in Call of Duty which lends it, in my opinion, an aura of skill that is 
 not present in many other shooters. The single player itself was a very cinematic and engrossing 
 experience, albeit a short one. However one gripe I had with it was that for a game taht so prominently 
 advertised that you weren't fighting the war all by yourself, your teammates were pretty disposable, 
 they were just replaced very fast. The multiplayer itself was nothing too innovative or special 
 and there was a lot of rampant cheating in the early days, but it had something that just kept 
 me and my friends playing it, I can't really put my finger on it, but it was just plain fun and 
 thoroughly enjoyable. This game was great and will probably be looked back upon as one of the best 
 in the genre in future years, everyone should try it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Snid0
Rating: 9.4
Date: Oct 26, 2006 12:14 pm PT
Review:  Single player: The game is immersive. It lets you believe you are fighting WW2 and produces some 
 good set-pieces. Sometimes the game is quite hard and you may have to save &amp; reload quite a 
 few times on hard sections. Of course you can always play it on 'easy' if you don't like that.
 
  The single player game is really 3 games, with you taking a Russian, a British and an American 
 campaign. That is very slightly jarring as you may fight through as an American soldier, successfully 
 and then all of a sudden you are a different British soldier! However, its not a real problem.
 
  The main problems are some 'very difficult' sections (Is that a problem?) and your 'indestructible' 
 key comrades.
  Sound is good and quite visceral, with some nice comments from your fellow soldiers. The Graphics 
 are good, even by today's standards (although better graphics ARE obviously around these days.)
 
  
  Multiplayer: I do prefer multiplayer in COD1 to COD2. The controls seem more responsive, with COD2 
 more sluggish. And the Thompson has 10 more rounds in COD1 - LOL! Biggest problems with the game 
 are Cheats and the programme designed to combat them - PunkBuster. PB can cause problems with the 
 smooth running of the game.
  
  In conclusion: If you played this game then you don't really need COD2, although if you are a Graphics 
 whore you may prefer it. It is pretty much the same game - with COD2 having improvements and (obviously) 
 different levels! If your PC is getting on a bit and you haven't played COD and enjoy FPS and WW2 
 then what are you waiting for..? Get it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JOE714
Rating: 9.6
Date: Oct 21, 2006 6:29 pm PT
Review:  The experiences shared among American GIs during World War II comprise several enlightening and 
 harrowing anecdotes. Our soldiers were not the only ones who engaged the Nazi menace, of course; 
 the Brits stood almost completely alone for a time as friendly country after country fell to Hitlers 
 yen for breathing room in Europe. British commandoes were involved in a number of expeditions and 
 incursions all along the western front, many of which made for some very compelling storytelling. 
 On the other side of the Axis bloc, Soviet soldiers (many of them hapless peasants deliberately 
 used as cannon fodder) pushed against a devastating German invasion force, with another enemy  
 their own horrible government  pulling up from behind. Call of Dutys brilliant design expanded 
 the cinematic pride and pathos that first appeared in the Medal of Honor series by extending the 
 scope of a players experiences in the field to include Americas allies.
  
  The Russian campaign is especially interesting, both for the new territory covered in each mission 
 and the astonishingly vile and challenging conditions that greeted Soviet soldiers. The very first 
 steps in the characters waterlogged boots are taken just as he disembarks from an exploding boat 
 following an incredibly well-animated and jarring river crossing. The player then must face an 
 uphill battle with little more than an ammo clip in his hand, thanks to the Russians ridiculous 
 (yet oddly practical, given the magnitude of the slaughter ahead) 1:2 ratio of weapons-per-warm-body 
 deployment scheme. If the player survives, he is accompanied by several artificially-controlled 
 comrades as they push their way through the ruins of Stalingrad.
  
  In fact, all three heroes are rarely alone, and their compatriots are usually very helpful. Each 
 time I approached a new checkpoint lousy with angry Germans, it was a pleasure to take cover behind 
 a berm or bunker wall and watch a part of the battle play out. Call of Dutys AI is smart enough 
 to take cover when needed and sling lead like the average footsoldier, which helps to locate and 
 pin the enemy through a unified effort. The games system of replacing fallen cronies with a steady 
 trickle of reinforcements from the rear is ingenious and often very subtle. The battle is won by 
 relying on the constantly reinvigorated strength of the team to bust through one chokepoint after 
 another. Success also requires the player to stay behind cover, remaining ever-vigilant for the 
 angle and origin of new shots as they rain down on sacrificial cohorts.
  
  The on-rails missions spent in the passenger seat of a purloined car or a truck bed full of Panzerfausts 
 are a lot of fun and cover an enormous amount of ground. The truck race through a scenic river 
 valley was especially admirable for its spacious design and entertaining gameplay; the latter was 
 reminiscent of Indiana Jones chase for the Ark of the Covenant, complete with troop transports 
 and sidecar cycles flipping and exploding in all directions. Later on, the Soviet character gives 
 the Germans some payback for all the trouble in Stalingrad by plowing mercilessly through their 
 tank units in a pair of even bigger and more detailed levels. Those sequences were over all too 
 soon and left me wishing for a CoD expansion or mod spent entirely in the turret of the wars greatest 
 tanks.
  
  While Medal of Honor: Allied Assault introduced the notion of a scripted shooter with cinematic 
 levels of detail set during one of the most emotionally charged and mechanically innovative conflicts 
 ever, Call of Duty developed the model into something approaching perfection. The game utilizes 
 every necessary element for fun combat situations  realistic and diverse weaponry, reliable squadmates 
 whose participation lends a significant impact to each battle, and dazzling special effects that 
 highlight the epic scale of all-out war  in a package that doesnt get old, even after several 
 play-throughs. CoD, its impressive expansion pack, and its sequel are an essential experience for 
 any gamer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RE4manonline
Rating: 9.8
Date: Oct 18, 2006 4:25 pm PT
Review:  To start out, this game is the best WWII game ever. It has good graphics, I mean, they aren't the 
 best graphics, but they are good for a 2003 game. The game has abosolutely amazing sound and great 
 gameplay. Depending on the difficulty, the game is just right for a newcomer. This game you can 
 pick up and play right away. It has a quite long campane but the online play is what keeps you 
 coming back. It doesn't have some amazing story, it's bassicaly, Shoot and go. But It is a amazing. 
 the game is also quite cheap now so there is no excuse if you don't own it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bloodnecron
Rating: 9.6
Date: Oct 13, 2006 3:11 pm PT
Review:  this game is very good. i like how they made a game in the back in WW2. this game is similar to 
 medal of honor, battlefront 2. im very exited about the call of duty 3! it would be cooler if you 
 could drive tanks like halo. the graphics in this game, its ompressive for 2003. i first played 
 this game at my step father's house. i played online with him when i had this game. we kick A$$ 
 everyone!! the campagin is fun. i would say around just right to hard. my perosonal favorite level 
 is the D-day. i showed this game to my friend and he liked it. we started playing it and we killed 
 eachother and the allies. we called our self the allie killer!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kaziechameleon
Rating: 9.1
Date: Oct 10, 2006 10:50 am PT
Review:  everyone loved medal of honor, but i found it to be the most boring and horrible setting for the 
 gameplay they chose to aspire to. call of duty is the first game to try and sucede at making you 
 feel like your part of the war. the level design is based around scripted cinematic sequences the 
 are fantastic, and the tanks in this game feel great, wheather your running from them or driving 
 them. i loved this game, my only grip is the ages old game engine. and the british campiagn.
  
  THE GOOD
  fantastic immersive viscereal experience, solid presentation, great level design, 
 great sound. this game is simply memerable.
  
  THE BAD
  the british campiagn, and graphics engine.
  
  these devs chose to use the quake three engine 
 rather than build their own, after all they had plenty of experience on it, they made MOHAA. this 
 game is lite yaers ahead of mohaa, so don't compare. this game simply makes you feel like part 
 of the war, if your pushing back germans through a small town when tank bust through a brick wall 
 on your right flank you go, crap, and run for your life, fleeing to cover and building interiors 
 searching for the panzer faust stash, you find it you get your one shot chance and with covering 
 fire you make the kill. it is very memorable and viscereal, think of the dday laning in mohaa its 
 twice as good the whole game through (except the british campaign) the british campaign blows it's 
 boring lone gunman stuff of the medal of honor vein and i'm tired of it, but you have to play through 
 it to get to the best campiagn, the russian campiagn, so amazing the first ten minutes you don't 
 get a gun and you play the part of a good distraction so a sniper body can get the mg 42's of your 
 back. it is awsome. the multi play is solid and has a sweat kill cam function that shows you the 
 last couple seconds of the person who shot you be for he shot you. thats a very nice feature. and 
 multii player levels are rock solid two.
  
  GAMEPLAY
  good with iron sights and leaning the feeling of accuracy and stationary shooting feel well emphasized, 
 the objectives are veried and interesting, and the game as a whole may not be very deep but is 
 more of a experience than anything else.
  9
  
  GRAPHICS
  great graphical touches and animations seem wasted on the engine, but alas this game is still the 
 classic realization of what war games should be about.
  8
  
  SOUND
  rock solid i loved every minute os the audio in this game, from the voice acting to the explosions 
 and music, can't find a better example.
  10
  
  VALUE
  for the price of admision (50 on release) you get a solid memorable unique single player experience, 
 and a solid, and modded multiplayer that i really like, plus if you get teh expansion pack you'll 
 have one of the best multiplayer game around.
  10
  
  REVIEW S TILT
  i loved the game, sure it's linear, without any real story arch, but it gives you these experiences 
 that you'll not soon forget.
  9 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gamefreakwill
Rating: 9.3
Date: Oct 9, 2006 7:22 pm PT
Review:  Call of Duty is a historic FPS made by Infinity Ward and Activisoin. You can tell that Infinity 
 Ward's team had so much passion in making Dall of Duty. Its graphics are pretty nice, enemies are 
 tough, battles are intense in some parts, and Multiplayer is fun.
  
  What makes Call of Duty stand out is its intensity. You feel like you are fighting a real war when 
 playing. Its very intense and fun to play, though realistic at times. Your teamates are also pretty 
 smart and will help you out a lot at times.
  
  The grpahics are pretty good. Not bad even in this time to tell the truth. Environments are sharp 
 and characters look good.
  
  The guns have a good feel to them. When you fire you can sort of feel the impact of the weapons, 
 like the BAR or the Tompson Submachine gun. Characters have good voices as well.
  
  You should play this game, no matter who you are. Its fun and fast paced and you'll want to come 
 back to it for a long time.
  
  THe multiplayer has Deathmatch, King of the Hil, all the good mltipolayer stuff. You'll enjoy this 
 segment most likely after you beat the single player campain, but if you don't, play the singel 
 player, which is just as good.
  
  With all in mind, Call of Duty gets a 9.3 out of 10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jajabinks123
Rating: 9.1
Date: Oct 1, 2006 2:55 pm PT
Review:  Ok so i decided to write a review about Call Of Duty, Dubbed COD.
  Well i've had it for about a year now, and when i bought it i first played the single player side 
 of the game it was pretty cool with all of your squad mates and being able to play with american's 
 british and russians, was a big A++
  so once i completed the single player side i moved on to yep thats right MULTIPLAYER!!! which never 
 really gets old if you find a server you like.
  
  So overall go out and buy this game and have fun.
  
  PS. If you do buy this game and get into 
 the multiplayer part i would suggest the Area 51 clan and also the dead prez clan. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TigerFangRed
Rating: 9.1
Date: Sep 30, 2006 1:00 pm PT
Review:  Call of Duty is hands down the best WW2 game to date. If there has ever been a game that made you 
 want to throw down what you were doing and fight Nazis, this is it.
  
  Call of Duty has an excellent generic FPS setup. You shoot Nazis. Quite simple though it seems, 
 this is the only game to make me scared while being shot at in a video game. It is truly a wild 
 moment when an artillery hits one of your pals and you know not to go where he just was. The machine 
 guns that the Germans use are so loud, just like they should be. There are shouts from enemies 
 and allies alike, again, just like it should be. This is Call of Duty's greatest strength, it almost 
 perfectly mimics the battlefield's intensity.
  
  The graphics are amazing. From the guns to the landscape it is a wonder to look at. Another good 
 graphical thing is when bullets hit. It may not leave bullet holes but it looks real when pieces 
 fly everywhere.
  
  The sound is STUNNING. The aforementioned being fired at scenario offers different sounds for different 
 materials being hit. Wood sounds like wood, metal like metal. Also the dramatic music in certain 
 areas gives a good feeling. Replay value is pretty good as I developed a favorite level I like 
 to play all the time. All in all, Call of Duty is not a game you want to miss. It's stunning, from 
 the sound to the graphics to the fighting. All shines in this game. Buy it. Quickly, enlist before 
 Hitler takes over. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: theunwn
Rating: 9.6
Date: Sep 29, 2006 11:53 pm PT
Review:  The PC gaming industry has brought out countless FPS games, alot of them on WW2 and such, so it 
 took something special to make Call of Duty stand out from all the others, especially after the 
 MOH series did such a good job. But Infinity Ward has come up with a game that puts all the other 
 FPS (first person shooter) games out of perspective and has also gone ahead and topped off all 
 the MOH series including Medal of Honour: Allied Assault, its greatest rival. Call of Duty puts 
 you in the eyes of the American, British and Russians, where you find yourself fighting along side 
 fellow men through the battle and bloodshed of WW2. It is probably the most realistic and gripping 
 WW2 games yet. The rich and detailed environment makes you fell like you are part of the actual 
 war, without leaving the comfort of your home. The graphics are excellent, with gun models looking 
 great and your teammates expressions being detailed as ever. Infinity Ward has definately used 
 all the modern technology to its highest standard. The controls are smooth, allowing your character 
 to run, crouch, fire, use the sight, hit people with the butt of your gun, throw grenades and even 
 go prone during the thick of battle. Also, the AI of teamates and enemies is excellent. Its great 
 watching fellow soldiers running, crouching out of harms way, shooting around corners, anything 
 to defeat the enemy. Call of Duty also features real battles, such as Stalingrad during the Russian 
 missions, the battle for the Reichstag in Berlin, and many other great and memerable battles. The 
 sound in Call of Duty is so realistic that you'll sometimes find yourself ducking in front of your 
 computer screen, trying to dodge the invisible bullets. The authenticity of the guns is great, 
 like the tinny sound of the Thompson sub-machinegun, and the bounce of grenades on the ground and 
 on the walls, it all makes for a excellent experience. While playing the game though, there were 
 a few bad points aswell. For starters the length of the game is nothing special, most experienced 
 gamers will find themselves beating the game in about 7-10 hours. Also, during the game, I found 
 that some characters, such as Cpt. Foaley during the American mission, stayed alive no matter how 
 many times they where shot, because the game couldn't go on without them. The only other thing 
 is that when someone is shot from atop a building or on a balcony, the graphics are a bit dodgy 
 when he flls to the ground. But don't let this deter you, because even these flaws cannot dull 
 the game enough for you to get very bored. So I recommend this game to almsot anyone who enjoys 
 PC games, and I hope you enjoy this as much as I did. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: -pQi-
Rating: 9.1
Date: Sep 19, 2006 8:01 pm PT
Review:  Call Of Duty was released back in October of 2003 By Activision and Infinity Ward. At this point 
 in time WW2 shooters were just peaking and developers were just realizing the potential they had. 
 Battlefield 1942 really set the stage for what would become a WW2 frenzy. Call of Duty was released 
 a mere 1 year after Battlefield 1942 was introduced to the world. But Call Of Duty didn't use the 
 Battlefield series free roam do what ever you want, when ever you want style of gameplay. Call 
 Of Duty was quite linear in the fact that it was a simple and easy to understand FPS, that anybody 
 could pick up and play. All the weapons, vehicles and maps you will find in Call Of Duty, are based 
 off of real weaponry and factual places. Missions based in areas such as Carentan and Stalingrad 
 will take you back to what WW2 soldiers would have seen and the conditions they fought in. The 
 many windows, doors and sniper positions would have driven soldiers crazy! You'll cringe in pain 
 as you see your fellow comrads being cut down by german machine gun fire and watch as you and your 
 fellow brothers in arms race guns blazing to take back the Red Square and drive the nazi's out 
 of Russia! These are just a few moments out of dozens in which you'll feel a true sense of heroism 
 with your fellow comrads. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FPSGunnerDude
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 17, 2006 1:10 am PT
Review:  Call of Duty is definitely one of the very best games ever made. The story and action sweeps you 
 up like a great hollywood movie. The gameplay is incredible and has great replayability. Multiplayer 
 has a charm, action and feel that no other game comes close to.
  
  The graphics are top notch. Some people may say the graphics are last gen, but crank them up to 
 extra with 6xAA and 6xAF and they look incredible, even compared to the latest games. They also 
 look good on lower settings for lower end users. Sound is great and really immerses you in the 
 action, not to mention the musical scores.
  
  If you haven't played this game yet, then wait no longer. Buy it today! Or better yet get the deluxe 
 edition with call of duty and call of duty united offensive. Sweet! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dowju
Rating: 8.9
Date: Sep 11, 2006 10:15 pm PT
Review:  As sick as I am of World War 2 shooters, CoD does it well.
  
  For too long, the player has been the only character doing anything in this genre. Begging the 
 question, what the hell is the army doing? CoD answers, and makes the player feel like just one 
 of many soldiers in the greatest war in the history of mankind.
  
  The games weapons are accurately modelled, as are the uniforms of the era, giving the game a much 
 needed authentic feel. Having the three separate campaigns as the Americans, the British, and the 
 Russians gives CoD variety in the locales without destroying the authentic feel.
  
  CoD's multiplayer is solid, but like all fast paced deathmatch games with "realistic" damage it 
 just can't compare with Quake 3 or UT.
  
  Call of Duty is a fun game with a great atmosphere, and while it may not do much new, it does everything 
 well. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Fman12
Rating: 9.3
Date: Sep 7, 2006 2:26 pm PT
Review:  This game is old but great. I loved it ever since I first played it. It has great story mode and 
 even better multiplayer. Its graphics are good for how old it is. The gameplay is good, and it 
 is original. It is also the first in the Call of Duty series. This game is highly addictive. Every 
 body who reads this must likely has this game and if you don't you are missing one of the greatest 
 games ever made. I still play it and it came out in like 2000. This is a great game if you don't 
 have it you must get it. The difficulty is just right ( at least for me) . It doesn't take long 
 at all to learn the controls either. It is the same controls as most computer games. You have to 
 get this game plan and simple. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Morphieous
Rating: 9.6
Date: Sep 4, 2006 3:58 pm PT
Review:  Call Of Duty (PC)
  
  Introduction
  
  Call of Duty is an excellent game in all areas. The Game itself is a first-person shooter (FPS) , 
 set in the times of World War II. This game is stunning in every aspect. Playing the part of an 
 American, British and German troop really gives you a feel for the whole story.
  
  Storyline
  
  The storyline in Call of Duty is of course, taken from the World War II Era. You'll 
 play three different troops in the game. From an American soldier, infiltrating Nazi borders, to 
 a German Tank division blowing through towns.
  
  The actual story is quite intense, and will have you in one mission, giving your allied troops 
 some cover fire, and in the next, you'll be running through Nazi strongholds with no intension 
 other than to blow them sky-high.
  
  Gameplay
  
  Call of Duty is one of, if not the best first-person shooter I have ever played. There is never 
 a second in the game where there isn't a bullet whizzing by you. You will always duck for cover 
 or risk a bullet in your head.
  
  One great element to the gameplay in Call Of Duty is the fact that in most missions, you will have 
 a squad of allied troops helping you take out your Nazi enemy. Trying to keep them alive and well, 
 whilst keeping yourself healthy, is a challenge in itself, and is another reason why Call Of Duty 
 is such a great game.
  
  Activision and Infinity Ward packed as much action into this game as they possibly could, and it 
 has definitely paid off. Call of duty is an excellent game, all-round. It is a must-buy for any 
 fan of the FPS Genre.
  
  Controls
  
  Call Of Duty's controls are quite easy to learn, and if you have played first-person shooters before, 
 you will probably already know exactly what key does what to help you advance through the game. 
 There is a tutorial at the beginning of the game that will teach you everything you need to know, 
 if you don't already. 
  
  You will learn to wield, switch and fire weapons, crouch, crawl, jump and climb over obstacles, 
 and you will learn how to keep yourself alive in the field. Since the controls are relatively easy 
 to learn, you should be able to maneuver with ease through all of the missions that are put forward 
 in Call Of Duty.
  
  Visuals
  
  The graphics in Call of Duty are amazing. Everything from firing your weapon to blowing up tanks 
 and buildings has been tweaked down to the smallest detail to give you a great visual experience.
 
  
  However, you won't have time to stop and admire the scenery, because any second could be your last. 
 
  
  If there is an explosion from a mortar or tank, you will be able to see the hole in the ground 
 where the projectile hit. Even firing your weapons looks great, from the recoil from your rifle, 
 to the bullet wedging itself inside your target.
  
  Call of duty is visually exceeding many games in its genre, and is very noticeable in every aspect.
 
  
  Sound
  
  The sound effects implemented in Call Of Duty are another great upside to the overall game. You'll 
 be able to see and hear everything that's going on around you. From your troops crying for help, 
 to explosions caused by grenades and panzers, enemy MG's to allied Rifle fire, Tanks to Cars, everything 
 in call of duty has it's own distinct sound.
  
  Try hooking up some headphones and using them when playing through some of the more intense levels. 
 The Game actually sounds realistic and you'll be looking around wondering who just tried to shoot 
 you.
  
  Overall
  
  I highly recommend Call Of Duty to any gamer. Every Aspect of the game is utterly magnificent, 
 and a must-buy for anyone. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: andilosha
Rating: 8.6
Date: Aug 30, 2006 10:37 am PT
Review:  This game is great! Call of Duty 2 was a letdown for me, even though it was kind of better, but 
 it was not what I expected. Instead Call of Duty is a game that surprises you, makes sense, and 
 the ending is good. It doesn't have a story, though, not a good one, but it's better than Call 
 of Duty 2. The team jobs are great, the grounds are well dessigned and the missions with captain 
 Price are really addictive. But than going to Russia ect. ect. are kind of boring and It doesn't 
 feel like something to enjoy, just like a mission to complete as fast as you can to see how the 
 other one will be. But including everything, THIS GAME IS GREAT. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 00chaos8
Rating: 9.1
Date: Aug 29, 2006 9:38 pm PT
Review:  Now I don't play war games (except for Battlefield 2) . But this game definitely deserves AAA score 
 and one of the greatest shooters I played for a while. I mean the intense fighting in this game 
 makes you feel like your at war. And the sounds are just extraordinary, I mean bullets and explosions 
 are flying everywhere in this game and its AWESOME! The graphics are awesome (for 2003) , when I 
 saw the graphics it was totally amazing. What really surprised me as well is that call of duty 
 is a very easy game to run, especially back in 2003. I had a radeon 9200 video card running and 
 it worked wonderfully. So I guess most PC gamers can gives this great game a try. Now call of duty 
 has intense battles like. Riding back of a vehicle shooting rockets at the enemies, using turrets 
 to kill your enemies and of course walking on foot but its really intense. You can also ride a 
 tank but that only happens once in the game.
  
  Now the multiplayer is fun at times but not very many people are on it. But if you get the expansion 
 its great :) . Anyways if your looking for a shooter with intense battles or your just a elite wargamer. 
 Go buy this game you won't be disappointed about call of duty. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: v3pointoh
Rating: 9.3
Date: Aug 13, 2006 12:40 pm PT
Review:  Although many have tried, there is no perfect way to describe this game. Actually experiencing 
 the game is the only way to fully understand it. Everything's spectacular, the explosions, weapon 
 variety, the voice-acting.
  Activision and Infinity Ward hit a gold mine with this game, and many WWII shooters followed, but 
 none of them were the same experience. Playing as American, British, and Russian soldiers keep 
 the gameplay mixed up. My favorite level by far is Red Square, with engrossing music, an amazing 
 amount of deaths and just a great war atmosphere. And even more hits have passed and more are on 
 the way. CoD: United Offensive, Cod 2, and coming soon, CoD 3! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: georgiaboy329
Rating: 9.4
Date: Aug 7, 2006 7:48 pm PT
Review:  This is an awesome game with a great singplayer campaign and an even better multiplayer mode.
 
  
  The gameplay on this game is awesome. The single player campaign is pretty fun. In singleplayer 
 you play as the Americans, the british, and the solviets (russians) . It is very intense and is very 
 fun to play and can be a challenge to beat at points. You use a ton of WWII weapons. They are all 
 very good at certain times. I would probably rate the single play about a 7.5-8.0. Although the 
 single play in this game is very good. Multiplay is where this game is all about. The multiplayer 
 is very intense and is up there with hit multiplayer games such as the Battlefield seeries and 
 Medal of Honor Allied Assult. There are many different modes in multiplayer such as deathmatch, 
 team deathmatch, and search and destroy. Search and Destroy is like and objective type mode but 
 there is elimination. Elimination is how Search and Destroy most of the time ends. They can be 
 very intense and at some time very very hard. My favorite weapon to use in multiplayer is either 
 the ppsh or the M1 Garand. I like the ppsh because of its rapid rate of fire and I like the M1 
 Garand because it is so powerful and is Semi-Automatic. But I don't use those weapons all of the 
 time because you need certain weapons for certain situations but most of the time my favorites 
 will do the trick.
  
  The graphics on this game are pretty good. In singleplayer they are great and stuff but online, 
 sometimes there is major major major lag which ruins the match for you and can be very frustrating. 
 But when it is not lagging it is great. The graphics are very detailed.
  
  The sound is just flatout incredible. It is so good! Everything sounds amazing, especially the 
 explosions and the guns. You can really get into the game from the sound. The talking is also very 
 good. I also like the sound of the planes when they fly over. They sound great!\
  
  Overall this game is great and is absolutely worth buying. Some other reccomendations for games 
 like this one are Battlefield 1942 and Medal of Honor Allied Assult. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gamer_elite415
Rating: 9.4
Date: Aug 6, 2006 11:33 am PT
Review:  Call of duty is one of the best ww2 games ever made. You play along side with three different allies 
 British, Russian and American. The gameplay is so intence and realistic and has great storyline.
 
  
  One of the best things in the game is the ADS (aim down sight) which u aim down the sight of your 
 gun as it gives you a better shot on target and haves impressive accuracy, theres some great weapons 
 in the game in which they all have there own type mobilty, accuracy and range.
  
  What i like most about call of duty is the online multiplayer in which you take part in either 
 allies or axis, there all sorts of gametypes and maps and is truly amazing and very addictive.
 
  
  So i recommend this game to anyone who likes ww2 first person shooters and online multiplayer which 
 you would surely enjoy. Although this game is 3 years old its well worth your money.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: megafeck
Rating: 9.1
Date: Aug 5, 2006 2:28 pm PT
Review:  Call of Duty takes a look at three perspectives of the war: the Americans, the British, and the 
 Russian. It doesn't do much in the way of offering differing opinions of the war from each side, 
 just different missions. I think video game developers look at all wars as great concepts for video 
 games. Usually, war is fun and up to the protagonist to win a major battle. Call of Duty does make 
 the war genre feel different by showing some of the horrors of war (just a smidgen) and by giving 
 the protagonist allies to fight with. Still, war feels more like fun and much of the time your 
 allies rely on you to kill most of the enemies and blow up or man the flak cannons
  
  Call of Duty doesn't exactly have a story. The game progresses through missions and you find out 
 the missions through mission briefings. Most dialogue which in other games would be considered 
 story scenes consist of the lead soldier telling everyone the situation. Nothing flashy, no characterization, 
 no plot points or beginning, middle, and end  but if there were those things it wouldn't make 
 any sense. War has no real structure beyond the strategies generals make. Even battles turn out 
 to be a mess. 
  
  While Call of Duty has no story, it has story-like moments. Consider in the beginning when a parachute 
 jump goes awry. Your character lands in the wrong spot by accident, and another soldier jumping 
 with you gets killed when he falls into a tree. You end up with a different platoon than the one 
 you were supposed to be with, and you're not the only one who messed up. The start of the Russian 
 missions also impresses. It's actually the most memorable sequence of the game. Developer Infinity 
 Ward invades the beaches of Normandy from the Russian perspective  something I haven't seen a 
 game or a movie do (though it may have been done) . The gamer sees the way Russians threatened to 
 shoot any soldiers who run away during World War 2 (and actually do it) .
  
  Nor does the developer take a stance on the war or any wars. No games have really done this that 
 I can think of, but it would have been nice if Call of Duty was different. During load screens 
 the game quotes famous war veterans and writers like George Patton and Ernest Hemingway, but these 
 quotes range from anti-war to words meant to rally troops. Perhaps Infinity Ward wanted to make 
 both sides happy. I also don't see the whole brothers-in-arms thing Call of Duty attempts. Only 
 during the American campaign does one country aid another, and the Russians only see the Germans 
 during their whole campaign. I guess it's because the three countries shared a common enemy that 
 they were brothers-in-arms. But that doesn't seem to be enough.
  
  The game is very impressive at times. Mostly its fun, sometimes it's fantastic, and sometimes it 
 frustrates. The most impressive moment is the beginning Russian level in which you feel helpless 
 amongst a hail of bullets. After riding in a boat towards the beach, watching every other boat 
 sink, watching your commanding officers gun down a man who jumps overboard, and ducking as an airplane 
 releases a hail of bullets on you, you find yourself running onto a battlefield without a gun. 
 If you've seen the movie Enemy at the Gates, you know the drill. Follow somebody with a gun and 
 take his when he dies. It's a moment you have to play in order to know just how grand it is. I 
 just wonder why Infinity Ward doesn't create any other battles as impressive as the storming of 
 the beach.
  
  Like I said, for the most part you will enjoy your time with the game. The guns feel fresh, the 
 controls feel just right, and the combat gets pretty intense. Usually the game has a group of soldiers 
 accompany you, so you feel like a normal soldier, in a sense. You're not, though, because you have 
 a better shot than everyone else and kill most of the enemies. You're much smarter than your fellow 
 soldiers as well. Like the majority of first-person shooters now, you can only hold a few weapons 
 at once. If you don't like this, then yell at Bungie, because Halo started it. But I like it. It 
 adds some strategy in the mix of shooting guys. Most gamers will probably switch between a long 
 range weapon and a machine gun. Most gamers probably won't touch the pistol, but they have one.
 
  
  I have to wonder why, when the game tries to make it seem like you're just a regular soldier, you 
 get so much attention. Enemy turrets will focus their fire from one guy to you once you peek your 
 head out from cover. The commander will order you to fire the big guns at tanks, always. You almost 
 always have to be the one who plants bombs on turrets. Worst of all, fellow soldiers seem to care 
 less about you than mission objectives and enemies. During a few moments I wondered if it would 
 be too much to ask if my comrades could cover the guy who needs to shoot down the tanks (me) . Or 
 maybe I could be the one to protect someone who shoots down the tanks or sets the explosives. I 
 mean, what if I die? Well, I restart the checkpoint, but in war if you die you die for good, so 
 maybe somebody else could help with the mission objectives.
  
  The game runs at a very short 6-7 hour length. The biggest problem is that at the end, I wanted 
 the game to end. The last few missions grow tiring and feel rushed, as though the developers couldn't 
 wait to get to the end. Top that on with a few of the games frustrating moments and it's doubtful 
 that you will want to give it another shot on a higher difficulty. It's just a shooter through 
 and through and there's no real reason to play it multiple times.
  
  Of course, I did give the game a rather high score, so that means something. It's worth playing 
 through at least once, especially if you love war games. It feels fresh because it feels like you're 
 playing in a war game and not playing a first-person shooter with a war-like environment. Now, 
 will there be a game that shows all sides of the war, not just the side that won or the side with 
 the Americans? And no, Battlefield 1942 doesn't count. If there is to be a true historic war simulation 
 game, it should show all sides without any biases  no matter how bad the Germans were.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: VietN1nja
Rating: 9.1
Date: Aug 2, 2006 12:43 pm PT
Review:  I have always wanted to play this game, since it came out especially, but never got the chance 
 to. I was about to buy it but saw the sequel and got that instead. A few months later I decided 
 to pick this game up and man, it's a good thing I did. I was expecting much from this game, especially 
 since it was game of the year at many sites. However, I wasn't expecing this much, especially after 
 the sequel. To start off with, the graphics, for a 2 year old game, or very good, and putting up 
 with today's standards they are not bad either. The sounds in this game are much better then the 
 second. Remember the pea shooter M1 garand? Well, in this game it's loud and powerful. It may not 
 seem as much like a battlefield as in Cod2, but it still puts up well. The missions are much harder 
 too, and you have the chance save on the go, unlike checkpoints in cod2. There is much replay value 
 in this game's multiplayer, and playing through the campaign a few more times wouldn't hurt either. 
 Though the second one may be better, espeically with the graphics and feel of the game, there is 
 no reason why you shouldn't play this game just because you already have Cod2. This is a great 
 game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: godsuki
Rating: 9.6
Date: Aug 1, 2006 10:21 am PT
Review:  Call of Duty is one of the best FPS games about WWII. Call of Duty surpass Medal of Honor in high 
 aspects of the WWII games. The storyline of the game is that you see the war by the eyes 3 Allied 
 Soldier in WWII that share the same goal: defeat Hilter and his nazi party. You play an American 
 Soldier, then an British soldier and finally an Russian soldier. In here, you are not alone, you 
 fight among your squad and platoon friends in some the WWII famous scenario like the Battle of 
 Stalingard, 101st Airborne Division Baker Company assault in D-day, etc. The graphics and gameplay 
 are 
  awesome, also you use the real weapons of WWII which they did a good job to show it for real. The 
 scenario of the game is also cool and very detailed. Here you use only 2 main weapons which you 
 can chose, 1 side arm, and some grenades. You can switch your weapons with the germans weapons 
 which in fact are the best ones in WWII.
  
  The game is short but it worthy all the money you invest in the game. The best feature of the game 
 is the multiplayer option. 
  You can play the game in LAN with you friends and also play online. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Saw100
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jul 31, 2006 12:13 am PT
Review:  Call of Duty is an excellent FPS with a new gameplay. There are lots of weapons with great sound 
 effects. Maybe the single player is not that good, but multiplayer... oh my god.. multiplayer! 
 Multiplayer is the best thing in Call of Duty and it has really high value. When you get controls 
 of soldier, it is very hard to press ESC and select "Quit". It is, believe me! Game basics can 
 be learned very easily, that's for sure. You must be one-armed if you don't know how to play CoD. 
 Game is not easy nor hard, there are plenty of difficulties in single player. Multiplayer difficulty 
 depends about enemies' skills (duh) . 
  
  Call of Duty is an excellent purchase for anyone who likes FPS games. Single Player may not be 
 that good, as I already informed, but you can not go wrong with CoD's Multiplayer, that is 95% 
 sure. (At least I think so) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sam_2006
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jul 25, 2006 11:05 am PT
Review:  COD is a very exciting game and I never thought I would enjoy it that much: 
  to start with, let's see on the graphics : 
  
  I must admit that the graphics just blew me 
 away when i first run the game; the atmosphere is just awesome, and the explosions are well worked 
 and so the gun fire, in fact, I loved the way the soldiers and characters look , it's amazing! 
 
  
  The game play, however, is all what would make a player enjoy the game so much, outstanding is 
 the only adjective I could find to describe it. what satisfied me me more in the game play was 
 the simplicity that it delivers within a solid performance and addictive pleasure. 
  
  The sounds are somewhat superb and the explosions mixed with the yelling of soldiers left and right 
 made the game look tremendously great and fun.
  
  to sum it up, I would advise anyone who loves FPS games and especially WW2 fans to get this game 
 as soon as possible because it really rocks and it's perfectly worth playing! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: filaria
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jul 21, 2006 12:37 am PT
Review:  Call of duty is one of my favorite games of all time. If you play it you'll know why. The best aspect 
 of this game is well the gameplay. Play it ion low settings or high ,it will never dissapoint you 
 ever. Another good thing about this is the enormous amount of levels and each of them being short 
 gives you plenty of variety throughout the game , this is not bad actually, being short they offer 
 pretty intensive encounters yet to be seen in any other ww2 game. It has a right mix of action 
 and emotion that takes you into the heat of the battles that took place in ww2 as aan American, British 
 and Russian soldier. The graphics are timeless that makes/wiil make this game look so good even 
 in 2006 or even after. The replayibility factor is great so no matter how many times you play it 
 It is guarenteed to keep your eyes glued to the screen and the sweat pouring. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mightymarvin
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jul 20, 2006 9:59 am PT
Review:  When you play the game you are transported back to times of WWII. The graphics are great. The sound 
 is perfect. But the best part is the authenticity of the game. The game has great value for money. 
 The game play is astonishing, sound, graphics & history are just icing on the cake. A gamer who 
 has played the game will never say that there was something missing in it.
  Highly addictive with four levels of difficulty. The game has no mindless gun running you have 
 to use strategies to beat parts of the game. The AI is just right. With perfect remakes of WWII 
 ships, tanks, guns, artillery, planes, etc. The physics of the game is accurate with perfect gun 
 recoil, range of guns and grenade throws. The damage compass is one feature that I particularly 
 liked in the game. Its not the same as other FPS games you might have played but it will soon become 
 a standard. You play as an American, Britisher and a Russian each countryman has different advantages 
 and disadvantages in weaponry as well as the melee attack feature. The surprising turn of events 
 in war are perfectly blended in with the game play.
  Infinity Ward has done a great job on Call of Duty, it will always be one of the greatest WWII 
 game ever. Well what are you doing still staring at this review you are wasting precious time which 
 you could use on playing Call of Duty. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Zombies_
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jul 16, 2006 7:04 am PT
Review:  Call of duty does the best job of putting you in the middle of a war, I have ever seen in a game. 
 It gives you a feeling that you are just a small part of a larger conflict, and just completely 
 gives you the rush you need to fight for the cause.
  
  Gameplay- The gameplay is extraordinary. Every crack of an enemy rifle in the battle, every grenade 
 that explodes, every artillary shell that lands all makes you feel you need to run for cover. it 
 gives you such a rush, and makes you feel like you NEED to fight for your life. it takes you out 
 of the game and puts you on the battle field. It is awesome.
  
  Graphics-The graphics for this game where revalutionary for its time. And thats how I measured 
 it. You may not find yourself staring in awe over the landscape, but it will feel believable. The 
 modles for this game are highly detailed. Over all I would say the graphics where very nice for 
 its time.
  
  Sound- Like I said. Every sound, sounds authentic. It puts you in the battle, and sets the atmosphere 
 of anticapation and suspence. It is truely a marvel.
  
  Value-The value for this game is very good. It has a large multiplayer comunity and verious types 
 of gameplay. The online is quite satisfying... if you have a good ping. The multiplayer is overrun 
 with lag. You will have to lead your bullet a whole second in front of the target ( Leading depending 
 on the ping) It is fun if your ping is under about 100. any higher and its very dificult and frustrating 
 to get a kill. ( And there is no bullet phisics in this game. So i know its the lag.) Overall, once 
 you are bored with single player, which may be hard to become, I would say check the multiplayer 
 out.
  
  Overall- This game is a highly authentic shooter with alot to offer. This is what a FPS should 
 be in all rights. I would highly recomend anyone who is in the mood for an authentic shooter, and 
 a pure adrenaline rush, to pick this up. you cant go wrong with this buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: darkscorcher
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jul 15, 2006 5:20 pm PT
Review:  The call of duty series is the best world war 2 shooter game i've played thus far. The physics 
 are very realistic, and the graphics are great. The game is addicting and never loses its fun. 
 Each level has its own unique characteristics, and puzzles and will always leave the player salavating 
 for more. The action is none stop and the sound is amazing. The game is Way better than medal of 
 honor in every aspect. The sound first of all, during play their is always some type of shooting 
 or explosion going off in the backround. in medal of honor it is quite unless your in a gun fight, 
 even then all you hear are the pops of rifles.
  
  the game is a must have for any fan of the fps genre and it is now at a great low price of 10 bucks 
 at most places. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Arimar666
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jul 12, 2006 6:34 am PT
Review:  When I first popped in the Call of Duty disc, I didn't know what to expect. I had tried other shooters 
 such as Halo, Planetside, etc. They were good, but not that great. When I started out the first 
 of the missions I was quite impressed with the graphics. This game came out in 2003 and they are 
 already better than a lot of the shooters that came out in 2005. But graphics don't determine everything, 
 right? The next thing I know, with a Carbine in my hand i'm instantly hooked into the campaign. 
 This has to be the best FPS campaign I had ever played! Instead of just shooting around feeling 
 great when you kill someone, you actually have a sad feeling at the same time. This game really 
 captures the drama and sadness of WWII and it's a must have for shooter fans.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Brendissimo35
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jul 9, 2006 7:18 am PT
Review:  This game kept me occupied for several months, which is very good, and although I dont play it 
 anymore, at the time, I was addicted. The single player campaign, however short, was highly immersive, 
 had good graphics, fast gameply, and ran smoothly on almost any machine. For its time the character 
 and weapon models were incredible. The authenticty of the game was decent, and thats all we can 
 ask in this market. The one defining moment (Although there were many) was the charge and assualt 
 on stalingrad. For me that made this game cross the line. I had never seen anything like it before. 
 Also the attack and subsequent defense of "dawnville" by the 101st was very well done also. overall, 
 this game got me into the WW2 genre. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wat_ever
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jul 9, 2006 6:48 am PT
Review:  The Good : Amazing, spectacular gameplay. Captures the intensity of WWII as seen in classic WWII 
 movies like Tora! Tora! Tora! and, heck, even The Great Escape. Wonderful sound, soundtrack's like 
 a real movie. Good graphics.
  
  The Bad : Pretty dumb team AI (blocking your way) .
  
  -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  
  Call Of Duty is based on WWII and is separated by four campaigns, U. S., British, Soviet and finally 
 Allies. You start in the U. S. campaign, a soldier-in-training where you have to go through obstacle 
 courses (shooting, throwing grenades, putting explosives etc) before you go on to your first mission.
 
  
  Call Of Duty really captures the intensity of WWII as seen in classic WWII movies. Heck, it does 
 have some The Great Escape in it. The sound is truly crystal-clear, cinema-like with Creative EAX 
 Surround Sound which, I think, supports up to 7.1 audio setup. The soundtrack really goes well 
 with the game, especially in those solo missions. The solo missions kinda remind me of Return To 
 Castle Wolfenstein : Tides Of War. But the soundtrack does have a slight resemblance to... dare 
 I say it... Star Wars. The game does have good graphics. The thing is, I was expecting EXCELLENT, 
 not GOOD. Anyways, the team AI can be quite frustrating, at times where they will block you out 
 of your way. Lol. I really love the car chase sequences in the game. Really builds up your craving 
 for intense gameplay.
  
  Overall, Call Of Duty is a must-own game for ALL gamers. Heck, I'm sure it will reach out to movie 
 buffs (like me!) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: just4pool93
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 5, 2006 7:52 am PT
Review:  Call of Duty for the PC may be one of the best WWII shooters of all time. It has some awsome online 
 Multiplayer, and an unbelievable campaign. When you use a specific weapon, it will deal the same 
 amount of damage that it did in real life. I think the major flaw in this game is that it is only 
 on the PC. I mean, PC games are good, but on the consoles it is even better. I think Infinity Ward 
 and Activision should make a version of Call of Duty for the Xbox 360, Xbox, PS2, Wii, and PS3. 
 They would make a big profit from that. I think it would sell better because you can pack up your 
 console and bring it to your friends house. It is hard to pack up your PC and bring it to your 
 friends house. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gurubob007
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jul 2, 2006 12:25 pm PT
Review:  I personally thought that COD was the best WWII game out there. Everytime i fired my MP-40 or got 
 on a MG-42 machine gun, it made me feel like you are right there fighting the Germans. The gameplay 
 is quite intense and its very hard to get off of your computer when you start. It is impossible 
 to walk away saying, "Gee that game blew." The game was a little easy but of course got more challenging 
 near the end. The sound and voices are fantastic and make you think that someone right by you is 
 talking. The one problem with this game is that it is too short, but of course Activision came 
 out with the expansion which put this game in a great position to continue the fight. The multiplayer 
 is fantastic and is very addicting. It uses the single player levels and turns them into slaughterhouses 
 for each other. For 2 weeks i was up until 3 in the morning playing the multiplayer. GO OUT AND 
 BUY THIS GAME IF YOU ALREADY HAVENT!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Frozen_Legend
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jun 29, 2006 2:46 pm PT
Review:  This game is easily summarized in one word:
  
  Excellent.
  
  The graphics (Assuming your using the full power of your computer) are great. All of the weaponry 
 looks authentic and all of the maps are detailed.
  
  The gameplayis ridiculously easy to learn and master. It works VERY well in the game too.
  
 
  Sound is easily one of the BEST parts of the game. Every gun sounds the way you would think it 
 would. The voice acting is also great. Even little things like footsteps and the click of reloading 
 a weapon is great.
  
  Once you beat the missions, there isn't a WHOLE lot to do, but since there is multiplayer, it gives 
 it all the extra value it needs. 
  
  If you like WWII shooters, get it. Now. If you don't like shooters at all. Get it. Now. You will 
 be glad you did. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: timmay9021
Rating: 9.9
Date: Jun 27, 2006 6:38 pm PT
Review:  this is an amazing world war 2 game that is the medium for some of the most memorable first person 
 shooter experiences for any gamer. this game has both an amazing single player and multi player 
 experience. the singleplayer lasts about 12+ hours and lets you take part in such historic battles 
 as Stalingrad, D-Day, and the russian invasion of Berlin in the boots of an american soldier, a 
 british soldier, and a russian soldier. The enviroments of these battles make you feel as if you 
 are actually helping the allies fight the nazi war machine. This game also provides an amazing 
 multi player part of the game which comprises of such modes as search and destroy, the typical 
 deathmatches, and behind enemy lines. All in all, Call of duty is an amazing world war 2 first 
 person shooter that will allow any gamer to feel as if they are taking part in a world wide battle 
 against the nazi war machine. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AzDraon
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jun 20, 2006 12:09 pm PT
Review:  CoD is a great game. There is not much else to say about it. The single player is engaging and 
 the AI is wonderful. You get the sense that you are just another face in the crowd doing your part, 
 not just a big action hero. I loved to play all 3 countries. The multiplayer was a pleasure for 
 a while also. I was not big into this games multiplayer, but I am very picky on what I play multiplayer 
 with anyway. I would recommend this game to anyone who is a fan on WWII, FPS, or a good story. 
 It does all 3 of these elements wonderfully. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xxxgangsta
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 20, 2006 12:01 pm PT
Review:  Call of Duty , for me it was the best game i ever played , afcourse year ago , but then it was 
 superb i played all day and i beat it , this game isint very long about 5-10 hours of play or you 
 can say 5-10 hours of amazing video game ,shooting is real , allmost like in brothers in arms afcourse 
 in this game i like it more... but if you say that this game is boring or waste of time i think 
 that means that you dont know what to play this game is REALY B. I. G. I could play it over and over... 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: marijuana_man2
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jun 16, 2006 11:30 am PT
Review:  As usual World War II games are as following, kill Nazis, beat up Hitler, destroy secret laboratories, 
 and all the classic; Omaha beach, and each WWII games does the same thing over and over, but then 
 call of duty did something original for once in a while, play as the three major allies during 
 the war, the Russians, the British, and the Americans, since each campaign have different guns, 
 and different environments, this added more flavor, but killing the Nazis was still there, but 
 nonetheless the sound is great, the orchestra makes the atmosphere more realistic, and the voice-acting 
 made it worthwhile too. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LeutenantSpevak
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jun 13, 2006 12:40 pm PT
Review:  Cod is awesome because it is extremely fun, intense and realistic. I I I i i i ii i i i i i i i 
 i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i 
 i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i  
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: steeljosh36
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jun 13, 2006 11:55 am PT
Review:  Being a major fan of the Call of Duty series I have had many experiences. They all started from 
 this great game here!! It has a great length with great content!
  
  The gameplay is obviously the best part with all the realistic WWII weapons, epic battles, and 
 building challenges! It is a first person shooter which we all like. Plus, it has those never-ending 
 levels containing explosions, tanks, mortars, anti-tank weapons, and all the regular guns like 
 the thompson and the BAR! Using all these against Germans is what we want right? With this game 
 has it! Each level has their own new feature to it. Including shooting from vehicles, using anti-tank 
 weapons, and calling in air support. I love this game!
  
  The quality is great because the graphics are outstanding and the sound works awesome!! Yeah, there 
 may be some occassional glitches but that is because it is a computer game and they all have that 
 problem. So it all works out. Trust me you'll like it!
  
  So, if you are not convinced, then you have a screw loose somewhere in your head because this game 
 has it all!!! Totally get it!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Radomu
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 13, 2006 1:32 am PT
Review:  Call of Duty so far is the best WW2 game in history, beating Medal of Honor's gameplay, Battlefield 
 1942's graphics, and so on. The game puts you in the role of a random American soldier involved 
 in operation D-day, a British commando, and a Solviet Union solder, which isn't seen very often. 
 The lengh of the gameplay is enough for making you interested for a long time. Even if you don't 
 like the Multiplayer, you will still enjoy and keep playing the campaigns again and again. Even 
 if all your objectives are the same, you can play the game in a different way every time. The feel 
 and the pase of the weapons are excellent and surprisingly ballanced, for example, the bazooka 
 is very powerful but have to reload everyshot, or machineguns are also powerful but very heavy 
 and not mobile, or the German rifles are very powerful and accurate though you need to pull the 
 triger every time you shoot, and finally, the grenades aren't that powerful like in Halo 2. I never 
 get bored in the single player that I played the Pegasus bridge level about 30 times in my life, 
 even though it's a hard level and gives you stress, it is very fun. Although there are few discriminations 
 for this game. One is that the game doesn't let you run around every where, not a lot of freedom. 
 The paths are chosen and if you run off, you might hit the mines. Overall, the gme is very very 
 fun to play, but doesn't give you freedom.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: dum_dum_626364
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jun 11, 2006 1:31 pm PT
Review:  With all of the current first-person shooters out on the market today, it is quite surprising that 
 Call of Duty meets all of my expectations. If you haven't played it yet and don't think it will 
 meet yours, just look at the numerous Game of the Year awards that it has received worldwide (over 
 80) . Though Call of Duty does a multitude of things that worked out great, that is not to say it 
 doesn't have some faults of its own. If you don't already know, here's how the game works, here's 
 the basics:
  
  Call of Duty is a WWII themed first-person shooter that focuses most of its attention on realism. 
 Throughout the single player campaign, you get to play from 3 different perspectives, the Americans, 
 the British and the Russians. Each Allied nation includes a multitude of different weapons you 
 have at your disposal. Each weapon serves its own purpose and you will quickly learn to use each 
 of them accordingly depending on your current situation
  
  Arguably the most important aspect of Call of Duty, that helps to achieve the substantial amount 
 of realism you feel throughout the game is that you are never traveling alone as you strive to 
 complete each mission objective for your country. This helps to maintain the illusion that you 
 are really fighting in World War II instead of a run n' gun FPS. And as Call of Duty states many 
 times, "In the war that changed the world, no one fought alone."
  
  Call of Duty also features quite a spectacular online multiplayer experience unlike any other. 
 Before you start the game, you are prompted to choose the side of one of the Allied nations (depending 
 on the map) or the Germans. Each side has its own specific weapons that make for a nearly endless 
 gaming possibilities. Then add the mod community, and you have a game that's going to last you 
 quite a while. Aside form the usual deathmatch and team-deathmatch, CoD also sports a number of 
 new multiplayer modes which include the following (via planetcallofduty. com) :
  
  +Behind Enemy Lines is probably the least-played and yet most interesting new mode, which pits 
 a large force of Axis players against a small force of Allied players. When an Axis player kills 
 an Allied player, the two players switch teams, and the Allied players get bonus points for staying 
 alive over time. (As usual, most points wins.) It's a variant on the all-against-one formula seen 
 in several other mods (such as Rabbit or Holy Wars) , except for two things. First, there's usually 
 more than one Allied soldier (the server adds and drops players to maintain a steady ratio, usually 
 about 3:1) ; second, your compass continually shows the location of Allied soldiers, so you can't 
 simply hide in a corner and expect to rack up points.
  
  +Retrieval could be described as capture the flag with just one flag. This mode tasks one team 
 with guarding a specific item or two while the other side has to try to capture said items and 
 return them to a specific spot on the map. If the defenders keep the attackers from retrieving 
 the item (either by reaching the time limit or by killing all the attackers) , they win that round. 
 The attackers will win if they retrieve all the items, even if there are still defenders alive. 
 There's some variation to who is protecting and who is attacking, but it's usually the Axis defending 
 against the Allied attackers.
  
  +Search & Destroy is by far the most popular new mod (beyond DM and TDM) , which isn't very surprising 
 considering the similarities it shares with Counter-Strike. On all the default multiplayer maps 
 except for "Pavlov," it's the Allied forces attempting to search out and destroy a specific target, 
 usually a gun emplacement. These maps typically have two potential targets for the Allied forces, 
 so the Axis cannot simply camp out the one target and wait -- the Allied forces win if they destroy 
 either target. The Axis win a round by killing the entire Allied team, by defusing a planted bomb, 
 or by letting the timer run out.
  
  Closing Comments
  
  Call of Duty is an easy recommendation for its solid gameplay mechanics and terrific presentation. 
 Then add a fantastic multiplayer experience, and you have a game that you won't ever regret buying.
 
  
  Gameplay: 8/10
  Solid, but feels like a shooting gallery at times.
  
  Graphics: 9/10
  Unfortunately, the outstanding graphics can cause lag on most PC's.
  
  Sound: 
 10/10
  Couldn't have been better in any way.
  
  Value: 8/10
  With so many other WWII FPS's out there I still recommend this game.
  
  Lasting Appeal: 7/10
 
  Relatively short single player campaign and multiplayer is lacking.
  
  Overall: 8.7/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: delta01138
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 20, 2006 9:45 am PT
Review:  An awesome FPS that nobody can and will forget. CoD is a very satisfying game. It stretches across 
 an American, British, and Russian campaign, so it isn't a short game. You'll go from St. Mere Eglise 
 to the Eder Dam in Germany, to Stalingrad, and many other places this gets you to a very very fulfilling 
 ending. The only downside is the graphics. They're not mediocre, but they deserve an 9 instead 
 of a 10. But the weapon graphics make up for this. The weapon grapics are all very good and deserve 
 a 10. It is a very good game due to many facts like you can pick up any weapon you find on the 
 floor (unless you already have that gun and it has full ammo) , the AI is pretty smart, (for example: 
 The Nazis will throw grenades at you if your'e in a tight space, and they'll use cover, etc.) and 
 the MP is VERY addicting to try and beat other people down and you can choose whatever weapon your 
 side has (Go MP44! WhOoT!) . Sometimes the battles on MP will be very hectic when your punching 
 like, 30-Vs-30. That is very, very cool. Over all this game is a must try or have ( though I recommend 
 you HAVE it! Go to Best Buy people!) and it will not disappoint any body 
::::::

::::::
UserName: syorks
Rating: 9.4
Date: Mar 10, 2007 2:35 pm PT
Review:  Call of Duty is a great game that should be picked up by anyone who is a fan of WWII or First-Person-Shooters 
 cuz this game is one of the best. You play the game as three different soldiers from America, Britain, 
 and Russia. The difference between this game and many other shooters is that u rarely fight alone. 
 On most levels u will have at least one ally with u and sometimes it seems there r hundreds with 
 u. The Russian campaign is the most fun and puts the most soldiers on screen at once. The sound 
 and graphics r both pretty good and the story is great. This is definitely a game that most people 
 should buy and play. The second Russian level is one of the funnest WWII levels I have ever played. 
 Believe the hype cuz this game is great. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Blazer88
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jun 3, 2006 7:07 am PT
Review:  I liked this game a whole lot. It was the one the first WWII FPS's that I played and was like wow,... this 
 is crazy. And really gave me an idea of what it must have felt to be there. I played it pretty stright 
 through until I beat it. It was just that good. The game a nice mix of mission between you usual 
 on foot ones and there some where you are a passenger in a vehicle which was the ones I found to 
 be harder for the obvious reaon that shooting from a moving car isn't that easy. The only thing 
 I didn; t like control wise with this game was having a seperate button to stand up from the crouch 
 or prone position,.. thats just dumb. other than that I have no complaints.
  Highly Reccomended! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CryingHero
Rating: 9.1
Date: May 28, 2006 7:00 am PT
Review:  From the word go you are catapulted into 1941 - 1945 in this epic War based game. You take the 
 role of an American Soldier, British Soldier or Russian Comrade as you attempt to fight off the 
 evil of the Axis fources. 
  
  You start off by completing Basic Training and being given a speech by Captain Foley: "Congratulations, 
 maggot! You've just answered the Call of Duty. Your country needs you, son. The Allied Forces are 
 set to invade Europe. We're gonna crash Hitler's party and teach the Fatherland a lesson it will 
 never forget. As part of the Allied Campaign you will see the worst hell imaginable. You will be 
 fighting alongside men willing to give their lives for other people's freedom. Good men will give 
 their lives for you. Your brothers will depend on you as much as you depend on them. There can 
 be no weak link or the chain -- and our bond -- will break."-Captain Foley, American Forces.
  
  After your five miniutes of getting used to the controls, You being your task of defeating 
 Hitler's Army. You parachute into a french farmland and from your vantage point in the air you 
 can see first hand most of the detail in the game. This ranges from the trees and fighting in the 
 distance, to German soliders rallying to meet their makers. As you might notice when you drop in 
 is the sound quality. The air rushing past your ears, shells landing in nearby fields and gunfire 
 from friends and foes alike. Makers of 'Call of Duty', Infinity Ward actually used real WWII weapons 
 in their attempt to make it the most realistic FPS out there.
  
  You then have turns at the other Allied powers throughout the game. This is just a small portion 
 of the vast gameplay that COD (Call of Duty) has to offer. If you have internet access or a decent 
 broadband connection, then the games Muiltyplayer will further advance the value and experience 
 of the game. Also with countless MOD's and other Add-On's, the game will last that small bit longer. 
 Should you want to expand again there is thousands of worldwide clans that play COD regularlly 
 and a great way to meet friends.
  
  I myself think that, although there is countless other FPS and war based games out there, that 
 Call of Duty is one of the best shooters out at the moment. With two other titles in the series 
 (Call of Duty: United Offensive, and Call of Duty 2) and a third on the way the empire will be 
 sure to grow.
  
  Hope that this can be helpful to some of you, Please Leave Feedback.
  Thanks, Crying Hero
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: D4rthMike
Rating: 9.3
Date: May 21, 2006 2:16 am PT
Review:  This game is awesome, unless you like single-player games. The SP is dull and boring in my opinion. 
 The online however, is the best there is. I love the easy switching between crouching and prone, 
 as well as the lean function. I also love how it avoids the usual shoot-em-up type gameplay, instead 
 taking more a tactical aspect. You will not succeed by simply charging into enemy territory, as 
 many people take defensive positions and it only takes a few shots, or one shot with a rifle to 
 kill you. Search and Destroy is an awesome gametype that you don't see much of. They really do 
 it well on this one. The only lacking aspect is the graphics, which falls short of many other games 
 like Battlefield or CS. Overall though, an awesome, solid fps with hours upon hours of online play. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jarule2002zw
Rating: 9.3
Date: May 20, 2006 11:36 am PT
Review:  bought this the other day and so far l think that it is better the allied assault which to me was 
 amazing. weapons are amazing and graphics are incredible, a must buy. best place is to go to GAMESTATION 
 l got the deluxe edition and THE MOVIES for a tenner so if you havent played it l suggest u do. the 
 action is unique as it is from soldiers stories a few of the levels are slightly repetetive. this 
 is the type of game that basically anyone can play even if you dont like war games this would probably 
 change your mind as it blends in different genres of games to make one big war game that is full 
 of surprises. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: soniworks
Rating: 9.1
Date: May 16, 2006 6:28 am PT
Review:  Well, when I got it like every other game's first day, I played it for long enjoyed every bit of 
 recreation of WWII. The graphics are good bundled with a grait FPS graphics engine which can be 
 ran on lower machines, the sounds are original and the locations masterpiece. What's more grait 
 about this game is that after nearly 3 years after it's release I still turn back to this game 
 from time to time. It's close with Medal of Honer but they both have different feel... maybe it's 
 just the engine but still Call of Duty is a great game and can be played by anyone who likes intense 
 action. I have also give it a 30 minute learning curve, because if you are familiar with FPS games 
 of course it would take less then 30 minutes even, but if you are a begginer in this genre then 
 the game has a great starting tutorial bootcamp-like which teaches you the main movements and shooting 
 controls. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gamesfreak4ever
Rating: 9
Date: May 14, 2006 12:49 pm PT
Review:  
  The graphics are good. They are very sharp and the animations are good. The overall look is nothing 
 extraordinary, but it's good.
  
  The sounds are CoD's maybe strongest card. The music, the sound effects and the voice overs are 
 all very good. The sound effects are especially good and creates the huge intensity of the game.
 
  
  The gameplay is awesome. You are thrown into the war and you're feeling pretty small sometimes 
 compared to the huge German troups. There's total chaos and you're shooting all around you in panic. 
 The game is brilliant and must be experienced by every war fan out there. You change sides through 
 the single player. You start up with the americans, and later on you control the english and russian 
 armies. This is very cool, because the environments and weapons change, and the game suddenly has 
 alot of variation. You don't drive any vehicles in the game, except a tank later on in the game, 
 but you never miss the option to drive vehicles cause this game is just brilliant as it is! The 
 game even features a great multiplayer, which lengthens the lifespan of the game. Buy this game 
 if you wan't enjoy videogaming, cause this is brilliant entertainment. The game is very short, 
 but you'll wan't to play it over and over cause it's so awesome!
  
  +
  Good graphics. The sounds are perfect, with awesome music and sound effects. You control 3 different 
 countries. The game is very, very chaotic. The multiplayer is very good.
  
  -
  The single player is very short. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: caseywokos
Rating: 9.8
Date: May 10, 2006 4:52 pm PT
Review:  This....... is the game that started it all, well not all, but it started one of the best video 
 game series ever. Call of Duty is a pretty game, bringing forth the revolutionary idea of major 
 soldier swarms flying everywhere, and the ability to stay consistent throughout gameplay. Obviously 
 an original, and possibly the game that really put WWII shooters on the map. This game is almost 
 a one of a kind and is one of the best PC games ever made. Before this the all the WWII era really 
 had to offer was the Medal of Honor games. And in those you usually play as a spy or agent, never 
 really engaged in a major combat scene (with the exception of the first two levels of MoH Frontline, 
 and MoH Rising Sun) until now. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AcydRaine
Rating: 9.4
Date: May 5, 2006 9:54 am PT
Review:  Call of Duty is one of my top ten favorite games. It is probably one of the best games you can 
 buy today for your PC. It has everything. The graphics are incredible. The battlefields are beautifully 
 rendered, the characters are well drawn, and the effects, like explosions, are incredible to watch. 
 The audio is some of the best in the industry. The authentic sounds of the guns, the loud explosions, 
 and the voices of your fellow soldiers will make you believe you are really on the front lines. 
 The single player is intense with several levels of difficulty and will not get boring no matter 
 how many times you play it. The multiplayer is even better. The people online are good, so you 
 will become a much better FPS player playing against these people. It is equally intense and I 
 gauruntee you will never get bored. Definitely should not be missed. Its cheap now, so go pick 
 it up. You won't be sorry.
  
  -AcydRaine 
::::::

::::::
UserName: OmegaWeapon9
Rating: 9
Date: May 1, 2006 2:16 pm PT
Review:  The "World War II" theme is becoming more and more common in FPS's these days. It also doesnt make 
 things better that the "World War II" theme, has become stail. Do to being overly used so much. 
 Now when a new game in the genra needs to destinguish itself. It is going to need to do the absolute 
 best it can to keep the player interested untill the very end. "Call of Duty" from developer "Infinity 
 Ward" does just that. Making not just it the absolute best "World War II" themed FPS's. But one 
 of the best FPS's of this gaming generation in general.
  
  Having a campaign that consists of playing as the Americans, British, and the Russians. "Call of 
 Duty" is able to tell its story from tree different perspectives. As well as giving the gameplay 
 new life. There is no over arching story in "Call of Duty". And it doesnt make you care about the 
 characters. However, it tells its story threw the gameplay. TAking you threw many different locals, 
 and putting you threw many different and amazingly intense battles. Some of the most crucial in 
 the war.
  
  The gameplay is your basic FPS. However, "Call of Duty" achieves one thing that makes it amazingly 
 different, as well as better, then almost every FPS out there. It makes the process of shooting 
 a gun fun, and amazingly exciting. The battles that you will be put in do there absolute best to 
 make you feel like you are playing a small part in a bigger picture. As well as make you feel like 
 you are acually fighting off an army of troops. There will be times when the game throws an amazingly 
 large amount of troops at you. And sometimes also throwing tanks along with them.
  
  The guns, feel very good. These weapons are all real world weapons. All of which were used in the 
 war themselves. Every weapon has a different feel specific to that weapon. As well as the fact 
 that every weapon is talored to a specific situation, and if you pull out the wrong weapon at the 
 wrong time, it could mean the end of you. At some times in the game you are treated to some of 
 the best, most viceral moments you will experience in an FPS. From hanging out of a moving car, 
 rushing out of enemy territory. To leading an attack on a city in tanks.
  
  The gameplay does have some very small problems though. Some times you may run into a friendly 
 solider blocking a path in a corridor. And sometimes the game can seam overly difficult. As well 
 as the fact that the tanks, when you get to control them, dont control as well as they could. Though 
 they are still very fun moments in the game. However, these problems are so small and peddy. As 
 well as the fact that that they are so insignificant, that they are unnoticable. As well as dont 
 really ruin any of the fun, or take you out of the experience if you do acually notice them.
  
  The presentation in "Call of Duty" is in one word ; Amazing. The graphics look quite astounding. 
 There not the most detailed level designs or character models in the world. However, the level 
 designs and citys and enviroments look excellent. And its quite amazing that during all of the 
 action, the frame-rate never really faltures, or the game very slow down. Its a great aspect of 
 an already amazing game.
  
  The sound on the other hand is almost perfect. The guns sound amazingly acurate and the sounds 
 of war is one of the most amazing sounding experiences you can have. Becomeing a pleasure to the 
 ears. The only thing wrong with it is the fact that the Russian characters speak english, which 
 sounds kin d of strange considering that every other character speaks there native languages quite 
 well.
  
  The main campaign will take you anywhere between 5-10 hours, depending on your skill. And after 
 that you can play the multiplayer mode that the game contains. Complete with many modes and maps. 
 It alone will keep the game alive for quite a while.
  
  Overall, it quite amazing how "Call of Duty" turned out. It breathes new life into a theme that 
 has definitely grown stail over the years. Its one of the best FPS experiences that you can have, 
 pc or otherwise. And any fan of "World War II" themed shooters, or action games in general need 
 not miss this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vapor188
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jan 2, 2007 10:24 am PT
Review:  I purchased Call of Duty because a friend of mine wanted me to play with him on the Internet. I 
 figured COD would be just like most other first-person shooter games -- good for a while, but it 
 just gets old. How wrong I was. The low requirements for this game makes it playable on many computers, 
 but the graphics are unbelievable. The sound makes it seem as if you were really in the war. The 
 maps on this game in multi-player range from medium-small in size to large. They offer all types 
 of game play from sniping to getting right up in the other's face. What I really liked about the 
 game was how realistic it was. There are no shields, so you can't shoot and opponent for five hours 
 before he dies. It makes for a difficult game on either side, but it still provides hours of game-play. 
 This game is significantly different from other shooters by the strategy of it. The way the levels 
 are set up, the ability to lean around corners, and the amount of health a player receives makes 
 it more of a watch you back game. You are constantly checking corners and protecting the players 
 around you as well as yourself. This provides a sense of responsibility and usefulness throughout 
 the game. The single player campaign isn't bad. You have the typical missions where you are by 
 yourself trying to infiltrate areas, and missions where you have ten or so comrades that have to 
 hold a position. These are typical, and seem to be the only minor flaw in the game. The missions 
 can vary from easy to pretty difficult when on normal mode. This is a nice game that provides hours 
 of game-play and time spent admiring the graphics. You'll find yourself saying, Wow! I can't believe 
 my computer can do something like that! This game is well worth your while, and at $10 to $20 it 
 isn't a wallet-cleaner. I must say, this is the best first-person shooter I've ever played. Once 
 you make it past the learning curve and learn some strategy, the game is a great time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: exhorst
Rating: 9.6
Date: Apr 25, 2006 5:51 am PT
Review:  I have played quite a few World War II FPS games, but none got me quite as excited and immersed 
 as well as Call of Duty did. One new thing this game introduced to me in FPS genre was aiming down 
 the sight of weapons. 
  
  Everything about this game is awesome, great level design, pretty good graphics for the Quake III 
 graphics engine, incredible sound effects and terrific funfilled multiplayer. The idea of playing 
 from three different soldier's perspectives is a great concept and gives heaps of variety during 
 the game. The game is fairly easy on Greenhorn, but is a lot more challenging on Veteran because 
 it only takes 1 - 3 shots before you die.
  
  There are many different mods for this game to download and they are well worth trying out. 
 
  
  The multiplayer is fantastic. It is so fun online and it is my favourite game at a LAN party. The 
 maps are huge, heaps of hideouts and a good variety of close quarters combat and longe range stuff 
 within maps.
  
  Overall, this is a fantastic game and if you haven't played it, you are missing out on a great 
 experience. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Xplay74
Rating: 8.9
Date: Apr 23, 2006 6:31 am PT
Review:  Graphics- the graphics at medal of honor and the models are much more better than COD. At the online 
 game you can choose your model at medal of honor, and the talking of almost each model if different. 
 Not like COD they have only one talking style and its sucks...
  
  Gameplay- I thing that MOH online gameplay it better but COD gameplay at the single player missions 
 is off the hook. COD really radiating the war spirit. I dont saying that MOH dont have a good single 
 player missions but COD's better.
  
  Overall... I dont know which game is better, every game has his cool features.
  
  Speak up 
 your mind... which game is better?? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: unbiasgamer
Rating: 10
Date: May 20, 2006 7:13 pm PT
Review:  CoD is an amazing game. Unlike MoH that has you being part of the OSS and has you going on covert 
 missions, CoD puts you in the role of ordinary soldiers, a Russian, a Brit, and an American.
  
  In every single mission in CoD you are fighting with computer controlled allies. There are 
 many missions in the game, much more than the average shooter, and the missions are varied. The 
 game takes you to France as an American paratrooper, places like Pegasus Bridge as a British paratrooper 
 and places like Stalingrad, Red Square, Berlin as a Russian. The Russian missions are the most 
 entertaining because the Russian battles are rarely touched on in WW2 games.
  
  The graphics are pretty good too. They scale down very well so if you have a bad PC CoD will still 
 look like it does on a powerful PC. Guns look very good and the way debry flies up in the air when 
 you shoot walls and the ground is awesome. It is also cool the way the blood spurts out when a 
 guy is shot, it really makes the fights more intense.
  
  The sound is great. All the guns sound satisfying unlike other games where weapons can sound very 
 weak. All the guns sound like they pack a punch. The Germans all speak German as well and will 
 yell things at you.
  
  This game is a masterpiece and I cannot write enough about how good it is. This game is easily 
 one of the best shooters available. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bigscreenx
Rating: 8.7
Date: Apr 22, 2006 9:21 am PT
Review:  The generation of today and the ones before them fail to realize the intensity that was World War 
 2. This is a game where the capability of quickly nailing head shots is needed, especially on the 
 harder modes. Also if you play the game at high volume it will at some parts make you feel very 
 uncomfortable and actually induce fear for your life. In other words, this is one the few games 
 that truly makes you feel like a soldier! The gameplay isn't flawless though, specifically the 
 artificial intelligence. When you have to take down the anti aircraft guns you can shoot a bullet 
 right next to one of the man operating the apparatus and they will continue on as if you had not 
 shot that bullet. Along with that is way in the beginning where you sneak around a small village: 
 in the part where the two men are playing a game of checkers you can shoot one the them in the 
 head and the other German will slowly come to realize what just happened. Call of Duty, even with 
 those minor errors the game still succeeds to provide a thrilling, worth while experience that 
 is a very much worth the small sum of $20.00 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Franco_atirador
Rating: 9.3
Date: Apr 22, 2006 8:33 am PT
Review:  Well to begin I must say that the first I played this game was a surprise ,well i was not expecting 
 that much after the appearance of return to castle Wolfenstein ,so when i bought the game (call 
 of duty) i was impressed and hooked me up to the computer until the end. In graphics they could 
 have done it a lot better since they used the fabled Quake3 engine. Sound it was splendid but one 
 thing missing the Russians don't speak Russian...
  Finally Gameplay, well to be realistic it did not brought anything new to the genre it only improved 
 it.
  In conclusion Great game a "do not miss" kind of game but nothing new about it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Payasoplas
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 19, 2006 10:10 am PT
Review:  When I first saw this game I was wondering: What makes it different from Medal Of Honor series, 
 or any other WWII FPS game? Why is everyone so excited about it?
  
  It's not very different from other WWII shooters, I thought that it must be an squad based shooter 
 because the game's slogan is "IN WAR NO ONE FIGHTS ALONE" and even with that the game has solo 
 missions of one man army, so What makes it so special?
  
  Yeah, it's not a revolutionary game, it's another WWII shooter, it's more of the same, but it's 
 more of the same well done, you actually feel like in the battlefield, there's nothing really new 
 in Call Of Duty, it's just that the game looks great and sounds even better, it has a great AI, 
 that makes your enemies and allies behave as they should, the ending is just a short movie but 
 it's one of the best endings I have seen.
  
  You don't really need to make revolutionary games, Infintiy Ward just did their job well and see 
 what we obtained, so this is the best WWII game ever, go ahead buy it, don't expect anything new, 
 but play it it's worth.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: meweus
Rating: 9.6
Date: Apr 16, 2006 12:44 pm PT
Review:  call fo duty is a great game but not perfect. 
  bad news first grafics up close are not great. Ai. not great, game lenght short.
  good news is 
 that multiplayer is awsome
  single is great but short.
  simple game.
  and its intence.
  
  one more thing weapons are great but we need more!!!! (not a con) .
  
  BUY THIS GAME ITS 
 AWSOME
  
  CALL OF DUTY CALL OF DUTY CALL OF DUTY CALL OF DUTY CALL OF DUTY CALL OF 
 
  RULES RULES RULES RULES RULES RULES RULES RULES RULES RULES RULES RULES RULES RULES!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!
 
  BUY THIS GAME BUY THIS GAME BUY THIS GAME BUT THIS GAME BUY THIS  
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: franklinzhang
Rating: 8.9
Date: Apr 13, 2006 3:39 pm PT
Review:  Okay, Call of Duty is a great World War II shooter that is both fun and historic. The missions 
 are very realistic, they are also real of course. The gameplay is good, but it was kinda hard to 
 control at first, but you will get used to it after a while, but it doesn't affect the game. The 
 graphics are one of the most spectacular and excellent graphics that I've ever seen in these WWII 
 games. The sound is also awesome, the game's sound is really like when you are fighting a full-scale 
 war. The explosion sounds were really like a true explosion. Like I said before, the missions were 
 very fine detailed and textured, especially the buildings. The game isn't all that hard after you 
 complete training, but I got stuck on a part where there are German snipers shooting at you. Overall, 
 its one of the best WWII shooters ever made by Activision. I've already played the expansion, and 
 it had great multiplayer. Keep it up Activision! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jg2692
Rating: 9.9
Date: Apr 11, 2006 1:22 pm PT
Review:  Its as if you are in ww2 and the graphics are excellent. This is one of the best games i've ever 
 played. Everything is real, the guns, battles, places, and anything else. I recommend this game 
 to anyone who likes first person shooter games. So go out and buy this game immediately. The levels 
 are detailed and enemies pop out of nowhere and start shooting you. The only problem is that on 
 other systems there is no multiplayer but you can still play online multiplayer. I could just sit 
 in front of the computer for hours and play call of duty forever because it is so addicting. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CajunExplosion316
Rating: 9.2
Date: Apr 8, 2006 11:46 am PT
Review:  Gameplay - Call of Duty is the best single player WWII shooter available. It's multiplayer aspect 
 is only surpassed by that of the Battlefield series. Both the enemy and your own squads AI is amazing, 
 which is good, since inb most WWII shooters the enemy tends to run into your range of fire and 
 your allies always seem to go on suicide runs. Also unlike in most games your not the hero. If 
 you run in guns a blazing, you die... and you die... and die some more. You actually have to work 
 with your squad. One of the strange but good things about this game is that you actually start 
 to care about your squad members. I've spent many a moment of silence after one of my close Imaginary 
 friends gets shot down. Also the controls are fined tuned, so there's really nothing to complain 
 about. (9)
  
  Graphics - Sure their not top notch but their still pretty close. Also what I liked about this 
 game is that it's one of the few new games (yes, 2003 games are new for me) that can actually run 
 of my $%!^ computer, and i think that is a fine accomplishment. (9)
  
  Sound - The voice acting is #1. Good look finding it in most WWII games. The sound effects are 
 also great and sound so realistic. The music is also the best I have ever heard in a FPS. (9)
 
  
  Value - Good Single Player length and multiplayer is above standard but just below that of battlefield 
 (8)
  
  Tilt- Greatest WWII FPS ever. Get it... NOW! (10) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CallumP
Rating: 9.6
Date: Apr 7, 2006 3:36 am PT
Review:  This game is brilliant. It is ten times better than any Medal of Honor. It is so addictive, and 
 will keep you playing for hours on end. In Medal of Honor, you play by yourself and practically 
 win the war by yourself. In Call of Duty, you're never alone. You begin as an American paratrooper 
 on D-Day, fighting through Normandy. Then, you play as a British soldier at Pegasus Bridge. The 
 last part of the game you play as a Russian, and begin at the Battle of Stalingrad. The Stalingrad 
 level is amazing, with hundreds of soldiers running past and explosions everywhere. The graphics 
 are excellent, and the sound is very accurate. Overall, Call of Duty is the best war-time shooter 
 around, and I highly recommend it to everyone! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Slice267
Rating: 9.7
Date: Apr 5, 2006 4:14 pm PT
Review:  At First Glance Call of Duty may seem like your ordinary World War II shooter for the PC, but it 
 sets its self apart from the competition through its immersive gameplay, great graphics, and amazing 
 sound. Its level of realism is certainly no match for games like Brothers-In-Arms, but its amazing 
 gameplay will make you really feel like you were there nonetheless.
  The Single Player campaign can be completed in 10 or more hours. The difficulty can range from 
 extremely easy to ferociously hard Veteran mode. All-in-All the difficulty will never seem too 
 easy because at times it can offer even the most hardened FPS action gamer an impressive challenge. 
 At harder difficulty levels the action can get right up in your face and become very intense. Youll 
 find out that hordes of Nazi will come rushing in at you very quickly at times, but youll always 
 feel the sense of Realism because as the Call of Duty motto states No One Fights Alone. Youre 
 comrades will fight alongside of you. This helps the game stay away from the arcade like combat 
 of games like Medal of Honor where you go through warehouses and bunkers single-handily killing 
 hundreds of Nazis. The AI in generally is well done, but occasionally youll find your allies unloading 
 into a wall right in front of you for no reason at all. These situations are rare, but can diminish 
 that realistic feel. The Gamplay will switch back and forth from the British, American, and Russian 
 campaigns. These are all extremely intense, but end up stopping you from making a real solid connection 
 with your characters. Besides that each campaign has its own little special pearls that distinguish 
 itself from the other two. For Example: in a few Russian levels you must charge your Nazi Enemies 
 and if you attempt to stop and turn around your own Russian officers will shoot you. Each campaign 
 also has occasionally some humorous side to lighten the mood between levels. 
  The Multiplayer is perhaps one of the best for a PC FPS. Ive spent hours upon hours playing in 
 different servers because the multiplayer is THAT good. The maps arent large for the most part 
 and really make it an intense fight wherever you on the map. Youll almost never find yourself 
 walking more than 5 secs from your spawn point without shooting, getting shot at, or seeing someone 
 get shot at. And I mean that in a good way since spawn kills are rare, but they do occasionally 
 happen on TDM and DM if you have a 64 player server going. Like I said because these maps arent 
 as large as Battlefield games youll be thrown into the action instantly and almost never have 
 to do any walking to get into it. The multiplayer chat function is very unique in that you press 
 v for some Quick commands that only your team can here. This lets you shout out things that you 
 normally wouldnt be able to if you had to type it all in. A few things that you can shout are 
 Sniper, Grenade, Move In, and Fall Back. There are many more, but within atleast a week 
 of playing youll get all these down by memory. There are atleast 25, if not more, so quick commands 
 that you can say its really incredible. You can also type in normal chat for everyone in the server 
 to read and team chat for only your team to read. Call of Duty also has a Favorites list for 
 your favorite servers and this really helps you join a clan and/or community really easy.
  The Graphics for this game are exceptional. You can easily run this on low-end computers with little 
 to no frame rate issues. If you have a really great powerful gaming PC, then these graphics will 
 certainly impress anyone. On Low-End PCs though it can really look and sound like wellcrap, but 
 on a medium quality PC youll still have a good-looking game.
  The Sound has to be the best part of the presentation. The musical score really kicks in at the 
 right time for those intense single-player moments and the sound effects really sound extraordinary 
 at high levels, which means if you have surround sound of any sort definitely pick up this game 
 because it will sound great on single-player and multiplayer.
  In Conclusion, if youre a fan of FPS games definitely pick this game up since now it will be priced 
 cheaper with COD 2 already out. The great graphics, immersive gameplay, and amazing sounds of World 
 War II will keep you hooked for many hours.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bazook
Rating: 9.4
Date: Apr 5, 2006 12:19 pm PT
Review:  This game really is awesome I mean I just love the weapons and memorable moments in the game the 
 gameplay works really well in my opinion it takes elements from other games like Halo in how you 
 can only hold a few weapons at a time. Graphics I thought were better than most other WW2 shooters 
 like the water physics are just luxury but also the levels are huge too but chracter models were 
 not the attraction the sound is even better with a good Sound score brilliant voice-acting although 
 some weapons sound underpowered in my opinion although most of them are really good I like the 
 main machine-guns with unlimited ammo on them in terms of value I sure thought Single-Player was 
 amazing but then there wasn't much of the single-player multiplayer really kicks in I just can't 
 wait 'til I have my copy of COD 2. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lawrencevanrijn
Rating: 9.1
Date: Apr 3, 2006 7:49 pm PT
Review:  As WW2 games go,. This can be considered one of them. Mind you, i am not saying that this is a 
 bad game in any way. I actually think that this game is heaps better then Medal of Honor, which 
 in itself is a very good game.
  
  The game is just a little too linear, but it is done in an ingenious way. The graphics are outstanding, 
 but it all seems too clean. The sounds are effectively good and it adds to the gaming experience.
 
  
  So, why am i not so raving?
  
  It is hard to put your finger on it. I am having a hard time explaining it, but the game is a little 
 too clean cut. Now, for most of us players, this is not a bad thing, and I agree with this. 
  
  My other concern is that Medal of Honor was here earlier (as far as i remember) , but this one 
 is smoother and better.
  
  The one great thing about this game is that spotting the enemy is a lot harder, which gives additional 
 excitement to the game. He who lies waiting gets teh upper hand is more then true in this game, 
 and on higher levels this will get you killed (a lot) .
  
  Most characters in the game are too clean cut, and the in house parts are a little flawed (even 
 though the wrecked houses look pretty spectacular) .
  I think that this is the issue, if i add it all up, a few little things are all adding up to the 
 difference between a great game and a timeless classical legend.
  I feel that Call of Duty could become the latter one, but as things go it is only a great game.
 
  
  You might think i am splitting hairs, and i will agree with you, but add it all up and think it 
 over. This game is so short of becoming the best first person war shooter ever, brings tears to 
 my eyes.
  
  The game is also available on MAC and is just as good there. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rocker500
Rating: 9.4
Date: Apr 3, 2006 2:50 pm PT
Review:  Story- 10/10: Call of Duty does a great job of sticking you right in the middle of these famous 
 WWII battles.
  
  Gameplay- 10/10: It probably won't take you longer than 30 minutes to master the controls of this 
 game, if you've played a FPS for PC before.
  
  Graphics- 9/10: These graphics were great when the game first came out, and they are still pretty 
 good today.
  
  Sound- 9/10: Awesome since they got the gun sounds directly from the actual guns.
  
  Value- 
 8/10: After beating the single player campaign, you'll have alot of fun in multiplayer, but sometimes 
 it can get repetitive. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gladiator91
Rating: 9.8
Date: Mar 31, 2006 5:38 pm PT
Review:  Call of Duty is one of my top ten favorite games. It is probably one of the best games you can 
 buy today for your PC. It has everything. The graphics are incredible. The battlefields are beautifully 
 rendered, the characters are well drawn, and the effects, like explosions, are incredible to watch. 
 The audio is some of the best in the industry. The authentic sounds of the guns, the loud explosions, 
 and the voices of your fellow soldiers will make you believe you are really on the front lines. 
 The single player is intense with several levels of difficulty and will not get boring no matter 
 how many times you play it. The multiplayer is even better. The people online are good, so you 
 will become a much better FPS player playing against these people. It is equally intense and I 
 gauruntee you will never get bored. Definitely should not be missed. Its cheap now, so go pick 
 it up. You won't be sorry. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rdhnightwolf
Rating: 9.2
Date: Mar 27, 2006 11:23 am PT
Review:  When I first got this game I wasn't too pleased with it. I didn't like the movements compared to 
 MOHAA games. After a few sessions I started to realize that the game was really beginning to grow 
 on me. So much in fact that it became one of my favorite games of that time.
  
  The game is a simple First Person Shooter. No vehicles, no nonsense, just run and gun fun. The 
 environments are well done from POW camps, to a large Battleship, to the a wooded area with rolling 
 snow hills. This game has quite the variety of map locations and the ability to play either USSR, 
 USA, or UK is quite nice. 
  
  The weapons are all done very well and the game modes are all pretty fun. Team Deathmatch and Search 
 and Destroy (Objective) have to be the crowd favorites as they are featured in almost every game 
 nowadays. 
  
  All in all, you won't be disappointed with CoD if you pick it up. It's a great FPS that offers 
 a lot of quality in both SP and MP modes.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ShaiKhulud
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 27, 2006 1:33 am PT
Review:  I thought "another WWIIshooter where americans won the war....
  Imagine my face when after american and english campaign they kick me to Stalingrad!
  Oh man! 
 Oh man! This was awesome! Boom! Bang! Squish! All over the battlefield! Thi s WAR! No, really... 
 Brutal, cruel war... Call Of Duty is interesting not because american and english, but because 
 the russian campaing! Not without stupid mistakes, they show all violence in russian army. This 
 is really brutal and naturalistic.....
  
  About game itself.... Veeeeeryy big and just awesome bangs, beautiful music, great sound... Very 
 fast single-player campaing! 
  Great multiplayer, of course. Full-scale battles....
  
  All of this made Call Of Duty the legend of WWII shooters! Where is MoH now? Exactly! Right in 
 there! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: smidmike
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 21, 2006 10:54 pm PT
Review:  I don't know exactly why I had originally bought this game, wasn't too into the 1st person stuff, 
 but wow. This is such an amazing game, I dont know how to explain it. I had played some of the 
 Medal of Honor games before and found them decent. Well Call of Duty puts all others totally to 
 shame. It had amazing graphics, sound, multiplayer, and storyline. I was completly engorssed in 
 the game. I went out and bought headphones and a mic, and this was the first, and still the only 
 FPS that I have ever enjoyed playing on-line. One of the best features that add to the realistic 
 aspects of the game is the down the sights aiming. Being in the Marine Corps and also being an 
 instructor for the M16 for the past 3 years, I find this to add amazing value to the game. With 
 the sound turned up, the lights turned off, and trying to slowly creep through a field and then....... 
 BANG! Shells crashing, rounds flying, and comrades screaming. It is an experience that will be 
 hard to overcome. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bigbighat
Rating: 9.4
Date: Mar 19, 2006 3:56 pm PT
Review:  Call of Duty is a HIGHLY addictive game, its lots of fun too. Its fun and addictive because it 
 keeps you busy and just wont want you to stop playing. The sound is good, from hearing a sniper 
 rifle to a machine gun and a good variety. It packs realism into it how your comrades fight alongside 
 and act smart ride with you as you fight the Germans. You can play as Americans, British, and Russian. 
 The game packs intense moments like The day of Stalingrad, d-day, and more. The multi-player will 
 have you coming back for about a year and a half it has plenty of game types to choose from. The 
 game is VERY simple to learn, and the game is easy to beat depending if you are new to FPS (first 
 person shooters) and the difficulty. This is a game that you must have. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sgt5thboard
Rating: 9.6
Date: Mar 16, 2006 8:32 pm PT
Review:  Well, Call Of Duty is a very nice game. You actually play as Sgt. Martin the American Soldier, Sgt 
 Evans who is a British and Private Nikolai who is promoted until Sargent by end of the Russian 
 Campaign. You are able to play in famous mission campaign like Operation overlord, the Pegasus Bridge, Stalingrad 
 and a very brief campaign but it is the goal of this war, Berlin. The graphics in this game is very 
 nice and the guns in this game is also very detailed except the Sten SMG which is not as original 
 as other games and the real thing. You can use a lot of famous WWII weapons like the Thompson, Panzerfaust, Spring 
 field sniper, BAR, MP40 and my favourite, M1 Garand. You can use stationary weapons like the Mortars, Anti 
 -Tank Rifle and the MG42. 
  Gameplay in Call Of Duty is actually a lot more better than Medal Of Honor: Allied Assault in many 
 ways like 90% of the game you play with a team which has more member's than in MOHAA .The Germans 
 and your fellow Americans and allies has a better A.1. as they can shoot down the opponents faster 
 and more accurate. The Germans also can shoot more accurate and can even hide behind walls. I notice 
 sometimes when you are planting a bomb your teammates WON't find cover and just stay there... you 
 know the ending... Sadly although the A. I. has more personalities like when Pvt. Elvans conversations 
 with Sgt. Moody in a mission where you are using a jeep is very funny, the characters that you play 
 don't talk at all, nor you can see their faces like in Medal Of Honor.
  Everytime you died or completed yur mission, there are a lot of war-themed phrases such as: Old man 
 declare war, but the young is the one that fight and die. A lot of these phrases came from very well-know 
 people like Stalin, William Shakespeare and Roosevelt. Controls in this game is very tight and a 
 lot of WWII fanatics out there who play a lot of this kind of game can familiarise with the controls 
 very, very quickly. Sound in this game is also very nice and it really matches the ambience like 
 cannons sound from a distances and I really like the music in the Autorun screen.
  So, all the things up there all makes up a good game called Call Of Duty.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: -daniel-
Rating: 9.4
Date: Mar 16, 2006 5:57 am PT
Review:  Call of duty was chosen to the best pc game in the year of 2003. Not a big suprise though because 
 everyone who played this game will tell you that it got all the neccesery ingredients to make it 
 the best or one of the best FPS game ever to be relesed.
  
  2 years after mohaa CoD bring you back to the lovely ww2 battlefields like france and germany. 
 The campaign include three armies which you play with:
  American- as a paratrooper, British- as a commando, and russain soldier.
  Each campaign lokes 
 better than the other and the levels are stanishing.
  
  You will first play with the americans throw normandy and france up to belgium
  and germany. 
 The game will throw you to the action right on the begining and won't let you stop even for a quick 
 drink. The sounds of explosions and the beatiful areas make this part of what it is.
  
  After a quick session of training you will drop into normandy and start the long liberation of 
 france with your comards from the 101st airbone. In the game you will always be a part of a group 
 of soldiers with a sofisticated AI that can take cover return fire and even throw a grande. The 
 enemy is also not dumb as they take cover each time they under fire.
  
  The graphics in the game is ok and a little abouve average. The models loke very nice and the sroounding 
 as well. One of the falls of CoD and its processors its that they dont use ragdoll in the game 
 which can sometimes make the soldiers you kill fall in a funny way to there death.
  
  The sounds are as well one of the best things this game has and a big advantage over other games. 
 Every weapon sound like the real one and your comards also got nice actors behund them.
  
  The multiplayer adds many hours to the game and can even stand alone in the game without single 
 campaign. No wonder it is the second most popular game on the internet.
  
  For conclusion, I give this game two thumbs up and a big smile on my face as I rate this game as 
 one of the best FPS ever. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: haugeng
Rating: 9.7
Date: Mar 14, 2006 12:19 am PT
Review:  Before COD, the only other WW2 shooter I really liked was the Medal of Honor series. And at the 
 time when COD was released, boy did it shake my world.
  
  Call Of Duty is superb. It's fun, addictive, immersive and it kicks ass. Trust me, it's the one 
 game you would not stop playing once you start. The story line is rich, and it plays like a long 
 running series show, much like the Band Of Brothers. You would be one of the many characters that 
 fight in the show, and at times you would feel like you are really one of the many soldiers in 
 the war. You do not fight alone, unlike many of the previous One-Man-Army kind of shooters. Your 
 teammates fight along side you, and they move towards their objective on their own. So most of 
 the time, you will have to keep up with them.
  
  Because you spend time fighting with the same group of soldiers, you do develop a sense of camaraderie 
 with them. And you will fight hard to protect them, while seeing some of them fall in combat actually 
 makes you want to take revenge for them. Combat is also spread over a large free roaming map, so 
 you are hardly ever confined to a small narrow path, adding replayabilty, as well as allowing room 
 for tactical planning, which is very necessary at higher difficulty modes.
  
  The most rewarding parts of the game are the final missions of each campaigns, where you would 
 find yourself defending a stronghold against waves after waves of ferocious and dangerous Nazi 
 soldiers. Try the Russian campaign final mission on the hardest difficulty level, and when you 
 get past it, hopefully without getting to frustrated at the number of tries, you would know how 
 satisfying this game can be. And you might just play the game on all 4 difficulty level and still 
 want some more like me.
  
  Alright, what about graphics and sound? Well, this is another area where COD simply stands out 
 above others. Sounds are very impressive, and with a proper surround sound system in place, you 
 would be in for one kind of a WW2 experience. Graphic are superb, with dust and soil flying around 
 from shelling and grenades, as well as detailed shadows and characters.
  
  Of course, it is not a perfect game. I've yet to play one. Main problem you would face is how AI 
 opponents prefer to target you rather than better targets from your team. Sometimes you may be 
 hiding in a really good corner of the room with your teammates covering your rear. However, in 
 barges a Nazi and the first person he shoots is, yup, you. Of course he does not live long with 
 all the teammates you have around you, but still this adds a little frustration at times, especially 
 so at higher difficulty levels where each shot hurts a lot.
  
  All in all, this game is a must have for anyone who likes FPS. It's almost another genre all by 
 itself, with it's immersive game-play and really cool war experience. You would definitely enjoy 
 this game for every cent it's worth. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vufor
Rating: 9.3
Date: Mar 13, 2006 2:46 am PT
Review:  Call of duty made a revolution in Historic first person shooters age, by integrating the brilliant 
 graphic and sound fetures to the game... well designed and created storyline. 
  
  I would say Call of Duty change my thoughts about MOH. Firstly I was thining that MOH is the greatest 
 FOS so far, but COD changed it all. Well I will give my reviews regarding MOH as well. However 
 I would prefer COd series rather than MOH. Similarity in those two games are too much that I could 
 make a significant dofference. 
  
  Weaponary, storyline and game context is immpresive. Looking forward to play add on for COD. 
 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Yami888
Rating: 9.7
Date: Mar 10, 2006 8:45 pm PT
Review:  This really is a very inspiring game to all people whom wish to see limited bloodshed and shoot 
 people at the same time. It is an instant classic with the 4 difficulty levels and ability to save 
 at any point in the game. If you dont own a PC, i feel sorry for you and i think you're pathetic, 
 but anyways this game is a definite but along with the others for the PC, PS2, and X-Box/360. I 
 like this game because it is a simulation and a shooter at the same time, i got a B+ in history 
 class just by playing this game, (LOL) , seriously i did, (not really) , no i did, (or did I???) . 
 Well its just a great game to play and i hope you like it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mdamram
Rating: 9.1
Date: Mar 8, 2006 10:52 pm PT
Review:  great game but ai is realy dumb they keep getting in your line of fire. when up close visuals looks 
 a little bit bad . very short campaing, also the ai isnt always with you like they said, and dont 
 help alot. sound is great. its also intence at times. enemy ai isnt realy smart multiplayer section 
 for me was f up so i couldnt play it. nice weapons but it needs more of them. other wise great 
 game go buy it and keep it. and know im going to say stupid things. blah blah blah pop pop pop 
 pop cool cool cool bang bang bang goo goo goo go go go stop stop stop hay hay hay (sorry about 
 that i needed a 100 words) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dj_fuse2k5
Rating: 9.8
Date: Mar 5, 2006 7:15 am PT
Review:  WWII games have been getting repetitive lately so we need a good new shooter and thankefully Call 
 of duty came along. To start the story line is very fun and addicting and very game is very noobie 
 friendly with the great training session. It lets you first play as the american then the germans 
 then the russians. This is very fun and gives you a look at the german and russian sides of the 
 war that are rarely seen in video games. But imo the real meat is in the multiplayer. The maps 
 are balanced very well and there are lots of different game modes ranging from Deathmatch to search 
 and destroy which is teambased. The action is very intense and the weapons are extremely balanced. 
 Speaking of the weapons the sounds the weapons make are flawless and really put you in the feel 
 of the battle along with the great graphics just make the experience even better. All in all Call 
 of Duty is an extremely addicting game that even if you are tireing of WWII shooters is a game 
 you should pick up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: timbo0827
Rating: 9.3
Date: Mar 4, 2006 5:36 pm PT
Review:  I do not know why we still like World War II games so much after about fifty games but I know Call 
 of Duty is one the top. The graphics are done really well and the gameplay is the greatest ever. 
 The sounds of ally soldiers shouting while there is bullets flying everywhere is also quite amazing. 
 I always thought Medal of Honor was the greatest World War II game ever created but I was wrong. 
 The multiplayer is great too. The campaign for single player is in ways short but some levels can 
 never lose their replay values. Call of Duty may not have the history of classic WWII action like 
 Medal of Honor, but it is certainly better 
::::::

::::::
UserName: grasu
Rating: 9.4
Date: Mar 2, 2006 8:24 am PT
Review:  Call of Duty... ah what a gem of a title did this prove to be. When I first saw this in PCGamer, 
 a little over 6 months ago, I thought of it as another crappy WW2 shooter with cows, a parody and 
 a disgrace to those who served.
  
  Was I wrong!
  
  Call of Duty has proven to be the only game in 2003 that I finished in one sitting (about 10 hours) 
 and then played again, and again, and again. Bar none, CoD is the single, most beautiful FPS experience 
 of this year, and its single player campaign surpasses even Half-Life!
  
  Graphics: 9/10
  
  It's the Quake 3 engine, though it would take a real graphics obsessed maniac to notice.
 
  
  The textures are clear and very detailed. The same goes for the character models. Explosions are 
 ok, but they could have definitely been better. I experienced no slowdown even when there was serious 
 action on screen, which really helped with the games immersion.
  
  Non the less, this is the Q3 engine. It's no UT. But for an engine this old, Infinity Ward has 
 done wonders.
  
  Sound: 10/10
  
  The sound is just plain perfect.
  
  Every gun shot, grenade, and roaring plane sounds fantastic. Put this on a 5.1 Surround sound set-up 
 and you'll be dodging planes behind your monitor.
  
  Gameplay: 10/10
  
  Just simply beautiful. The gameplay is a perfect combination of realism and action.
  
  At no 
 time during any of the 3 campaigns was I bored or felt that it wasn't real. The campaigns are just 
 plain beautiful. From a full on assault on a small European Village to a driving scene of such 
 quality that youll find yourself shouting: ''WoooooHoooo'' in the middle of a level, to covert 
 sniper operations that showcase the beauty of it all... it's all here.
  
  However, all of this doesn't even start getting good until the Russian campaign. Assaulting Stalingrad 
 with 5 bullets and hundreds of other soldiers, being mowed down by machine guns, both those of 
 your enemies as well as your allies, is awe inspiring. Nothing in Half-Life or any other game, 
 comes close to it. And the fun doesnt even stop there; you get to also drive a tank (where the 
 modified engines Geo-Mod is shown) and also a flak gun. It's an awesome experience that just makes 
 you beg for more and more.
  The levels are very well designed and are varied enough so that you don't get bored. The length 
 of the levels has some huge differences but it all helps conveying the hectic nature of war. The 
 Stalingrad mission, for example, has you getting up the hill and taking orders from a superior 
 officer, that's all. Some of the British mission, on the other hand, have you doing as many as 
 7-8 objectives! Luckily it never gets old or boring and its always tasteful.
  
  The games difficulty increases with the change of campaigns and in some cases it can get down 
 right frustrating due to the computers ungodly accuracy. This is CoD's only dent in it's other 
 wise shining armor, the difficulty. In one of the missions, I had to replay a scene over 200 times 
 (yes, true) on the 2nd difficulty level. CoD can be brutally hard, but it all pays off in the end.
 
  
  And what a final it is, the last mission will make you stand up, put your arm on your chest, and 
 sing your country's national anthem, it's really that good.
  
  The weapons are also plentiful and vary enough so that you don't get bored using them. The only 
 low about this is the fact that you'll be using German weapons about 50% of the time, however, 
 it's not really a bother since you have to switch the weapons often enough due to ammunition shortages. 
 The variety in levels during the storyline will have you doing all sorts of missions, from machine-gunning 
 down Nazis to blowing up Panzers it's all nice and varied so you don't get bored.
  
  Your team's AI is decent, they react very well to dangers but the game has a nice way of bringing 
 you out as the hero, not the team. It's very pleasing, it makes you fell like your part of the 
 story, but it also doesn't make you Duke Nukem. It's just extremely well structured.
  
  The realism part of the game is also handled very well. You cant jump endlessly, crouch, or go 
 prone. A very harsh (yet real) damaging system is in place. Headshots will be fatal and a grenade 
 thrown close to you could kill you even if your face is barely out from behind your cover. Due 
 to this, the games difficulty is extremely high (as Ive mentioned before) . I haven't played on 
 easy difficulty, but on the 2nd and last difficulties, it's complete murder.
  
  This is, even though it may not seem so, very good. It helps bring out the horrors some of these 
 soldiers had to face. It also shows that no soldier could just go and empty a whole factory of 
 about 200+ German soldiers (yes, I'm looking at you MoH) .
  
  Your enemies use all of the weapons that they are given and are (believe it or not) varied enough 
 so you don't get bored killing them. In another interesting touch, they all do speak German and 
 their other native languages (except for the parts were your taking orders from your Russian commander) .
 
  
  Overall, variety, impressive story telling and beautiful scripting is the order of the day in CoD 
 and the results are amazing.
  
  Multiplay: 8/10
  
  Meh, it's not BF1942. Multiplayer resembles MoH with a little bit of BF thrown in. It's definitely 
 good, but it's far from being the cherry on the top of the cake.
  
  Overall: 9/10
  
  There's no doubt about it, CoD is the best FPS since Half-Life.
  
  The amazing campaign and 
 the feeling that everything is hopeless as you run to Stalingrad cannot be surpassed even by Half-Life 
 itself. It looses some points for having a run-at-the-mill multiplayer but it gains them all back 
 up due to it's campaign. CoD is truly a masterpiece, and you should be ashamed if you don't own 
 a copy! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gstonyr
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 25, 2006 11:53 am PT
Review:  Call of duty was the best game that rock stare ever came out with. The Graphics are very good, 
 and very detailed. The game play is awesome, and the game is pretty realistic. The sound affix 
 is very impressive epically when you throw grenades. The multiplier is very fun and never gets 
 boring. There are also manny different multiplier modes. The game is pretty long witch makes it 
 worth the $50. this a really good game and any one hew has a computer should check it out. If you 
 like first person shooter games this is the game for you. If the game was $100 I would still buy 
 it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DarthVader92
Rating: 8.8
Date: Feb 24, 2006 9:50 am PT
Review:  Call of duty is a WWII FPS. this is a great addition to the FPS genre. the SP campaign takes you 
 throu three armies, the Americans, the british, and the russians. each have roughly 5 or 7 levels 
 each.
  
  lots of weapons, all the ones you would expect form a WWII game, and then some. some sound problems 
 when it comes to the guns. Most of them do not feel as powerful when you shoot them as you would 
 have wanted. 
  
  The Multiplayer is what makes this game great. Many different maps. The environment is very important 
 to the battles and give you advantages during combate. (i. e. in one of the snow levels, you can 
 climb up a downed tree and get an advantage in sniping)
  
  Overall, the few sound problems dont make this game bad but they could have been better. game play 
 is great and value is high as the replay value is very good between the SP and MP. this game is 
 the spark for future great historical FPS. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: oogieboogie8
Rating: 9.6
Date: Feb 22, 2006 9:05 pm PT
Review:  A great game. Super fun. I just got it a few days ago, but it's SO fun! The mission are ultra fun, 
 the people each have independant names. The campaign seems a bit short, but only on levels like 
 Greenhorn (easiest) . Veteran, the hardest, is very hard so the difficulty varies. It spand 27 missions 
 and 3 campaigns: American, Russian, and the UK. There are 9 mssions in each campaign. The gameplay 
 is soooo fun. In my perspective, this is probobaly one of the best PC games. Im not really a PC 
 fan, and I prefer consoles, but this game is great. The graphics are great, especially for 3 years 
 ago. The music is very well. The voice acting is astounding, and each person has there own name 
 and rank. There are a wide variety of weapons, all authentic World War ll guns. The game is historically 
 accurate, like D-Day and the Russian charge where you dont even start with a weapon. There are 
 many memorable moments, such as the car ride, where you stick you head out the window while another 
 is driving. The shooting is great, and any FPS (first person shooter) fan would enjoy this. And 
 last of all! The online play. The experience is astounding. For some reason, there seems to be 
 no Behind enemy lines, Retrieval, or Headquarter servers, but there might be soon. Here are the 
 game varients: Behind Enemy Lines: There are outnumbered Allies (Russian, UK, or American) against 
 Axis (Germans) . They earn points by killing germans. Team Deathmatch: Two teams try to eliminate 
 each other. Deathmatch: Free for all killing. Retrivel: Get the enemys secret documents, and more. 
 There can be a lot of people playing at once. Overall, the game is outstanding and is super fun. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chapin08
Rating: 8.9
Date: Feb 20, 2006 5:40 pm PT
Review:  Call of duty is a game that manages to bring new and intense game play to an overcrowded and overdone 
 genre. When there are other great World War 2 shooters, such as "Medal of honor" and "Battlefield 
 1942", a game like Call of duty has to show it can compete with these games showing off new ideas 
 and new game play mechanics that are fun, and fresh at the same time.
  
  The setting is the usual war torn Europe that many gamers have played through in many other WWII 
 games and while its not an original setting, Call of duty still manages to make war torn Europe 
 look more authentic than any other game before it. Graphics are'nt really the highlight of the 
 game, but this game still looks great in its own right.
  
  The game play (like in any other WWII shooter) is to free Europe from the vicious Nazi rulers by 
 killing every single Nazi soldier you see. But you've done this in all the other WWII shooters. The 
 difference here is that you are not alone, you have teammates that really do their job in helping 
 you fight against the Nazi rulers. Your teammates will offer covering fire and will behave realistically 
 when they encounter their enemy, making the WWII experience more realistic and more intense than 
 ever. You are almost always with a great number of teammates by your side, which means there can 
 be more enemies than usual, which means that there is a lot of action going on. This action makes 
 for some intense and incredible battles and you will find out that sticking with your teammates 
 and moving as a group is your best bet for survival (especially on the harder difficulty settings) . 
 The enemy AI also makes for an incredible and believable environment. 
  
  The sound is one of the major highlights of the game. The sound effects in Call of duty make you 
 feel like bullets are coming right at you and each weapon in Call of duty sounds and feels authentic. 
 Your teammates will also talk during battles and the Germans also speak their language quite well.
 
  
  There is also a fun multi-player component in the game that offers the usual multi-player options, 
 plus a few other unique ones. The multi-player is just as fun and satisfying as the single-player 
 and you are likely to enjoy both (depending on your tastes) .
  
  Surprisingly, Call of duty is a superb WWII shooter that takes risks in delivering new ideas in 
 an already overcrowded genre. Any WWII action fan or FPS fan in general will find a lot to like 
 in this impressive and truly outstanding game. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: baseballboy6595
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 20, 2006 4:05 pm PT
Review:  You have some totally INSANE issiues if find something BIG wrong with this game. Very intense, 
 surprising, fun, and only about $20. Here are the reasons I rated it what it is.
  
  Gameplay- Strong and intense gameplay. Not the longest in the world but very solid. You'll be playing 
 it for a while with 24 missions and each mission is insanly hard. Even on GreenHorn. But the gameplay 
 is terrific because Hey! Who doesn't like a good challenge. 10!
  
  Graphics- Very surprised about the graphics. Amazing! I noticed though that about the first 30 
 seconds of the mission the graphics would be like a slide show but who cares. Realistic and great. 
 10!
  
  Sound- I can quickly describe sound. Realistic. It is very realistic shot sounds and music is dramatic 
 and patriotic. Sound plays a big part in this game. 10!
  
  Not sure what value or tilt is so I'll post that part when I figure it out but anyway Call of Duty 
 is so good I'm sure I'd rate it a 10.
  
  Conclusion- Call of Duty games are great. I also own Call of Duty Finest Hour and I wrote a review 
 about it too. If you just beat that James Bond game and looking for anaother good shooter the first 
 series I would look at is the Call of Duty series 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kylemack14
Rating: 9.3
Date: Feb 18, 2006 5:52 pm PT
Review:  Set in the World War 2 era, Call of Duty is a game where you play as an American, English, and 
 Russian soldier each at different times. I thought the game was pretty addictive. Missions include 
 mowing down Germans, rescueing your fellow comrades, or blowing up things. This game is tons of 
 fun. The graphics are pretty good, but not perfect. But the gameplay is near perfect. The music 
 in this game gets you right into the game as you mow down Germans. This game plays pretty close 
 to Medal of Honor for all of you who have been gaming for a while. I suggest that everyone go out 
 and buy this game. Everyone, Have fun!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: flibblewerfer
Rating: 9.8
Date: Feb 17, 2006 9:55 pm PT
Review:  When i first bought this game, i didn't really expect it to be that realistic, but i was pleasantly 
 surprised, it had amazing graphics, and it was true that you never fought alone, you'd always have 
 your trusty men backing you up. The graphics were amazing fitting in some intense parts, like the 
 Russian charge of Red Square, it featured amazing sound and made you feel like you were really 
 in the battle (with the volume up high enough) , the sounds of your comrades desperatley trying 
 to break the line, the artillery crashing, the gunfire and explosions. The game also had a great 
 storyline, your dropping behind enemy lines with the men you would fight with as an American paratrooper, 
 A British officer sent in for high class operations, and a Russian soldier breaking through the 
 german lines with his dozens of comrades right behind him. Overall i think it was the best first 
 person shooter of its time and i highly recomend it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Matt14500
Rating: 8.8
Date: Feb 17, 2006 2:18 pm PT
Review:  I never played Call of Duty before. The only CoD game I've played is Call of Duty 2 which is freakin' 
 amazing. Anyway, I'm here to talk about Call of Duty. I have only played the demo and I'm hungry 
 for some more. It's a damn good game. Probably not as intense as CoD 2, but still great. The first 
 I played it I was like "Wow, not as good as CoD 2 but still a great game... I really need to get 
 this." There's just no other WWII game like the CoD series. Like most games ( but not all ) you 
 are usually alone fighting hundreds of Germans. I hate it when you're a one man army. But CoD, 
 you're pretty much never alone. You're gonna be fighting with a good number of allied soldiers 
 and it's simply amazing and makes the game realistic. I think anyone who into WWII shooters, then 
 get CoD, it's really good. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wahlen29
Rating: 9.3
Date: Feb 17, 2006 1:37 pm PT
Review:  I know that most of you would think that CoD2 is the real deal now. CoD1 isn't worth playin anymore. 
 Well... In my mind CoD1 just might be the best fps game ever. Graphics and Sound ain't to good, 
 but its the feeling. Counter Strike players play different CS games... some of you play CS 1.6 
 and some of you CSS. Those who like CS 1.6 says it's the feeling. Just like CoD1. You don't really 
 need good graphics to do a good game. Well... i don't say that good graphics is a minus.
  The Singleplay wheren't the reason why i bought CoD1. It's easy which ever difficult you chose. 
 And there we've got the graphics. If a singeplayer is sposed to be good it needs good graphics. 
 So if your like sp games, then buy CoD2... Not CoD1.
  If you buy Call of Duty 1 because of the Multiplayer... then welcome to my world. I can't really 
 explane what makes it so good.
  
  Beware... Might be highly addictive.
  
  Remember, I never said CoD2 is bad, i love that game to. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 1_chris_1
Rating: 9.2
Date: Feb 17, 2006 5:40 am PT
Review:  This game is really good, when i got it i was really impressed by how good it was .
  The battles are more tense than ever and i really like it because you can choose weather to follow 
 1of 4 storylines and that makes it even better as well.
  The campaigns are varied and enjoyable.
  There is the usual riding around in trucks, armoured 
 cars and tanks in the desert which is great fun.
  
  the only thing that let the game down was that it was too short
  The online play isn't as good 
 as CALL of DUTY 1.
  
  Apart from the game is too short, Overall this game is really good and you get hooked on it easily. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: janoma
Rating: 9.4
Date: Feb 15, 2006 10:46 pm PT
Review:  I have to recognize I was a true fan of the Medal of Honor series before this game. I mean, I still 
 like MOHAA and its expansion packs, but my exclusivity contract ended the same day I played Call 
 of Duty for the first time.
  
  That day I even forgot that Medal of Honor: Pacific Assault was about to be released. Fortunately, 
 EA was wise enough and didn't release it until the game was better developed so it could be a threat 
 to the surprisingly good Call of Duty.
  
  The game runs well on any MOHAA-compatible PC, and the general aspect of its graphics are quite 
 better than in other shooters --especially World War II shooters.
  
  The realistic details, as temporary deafness after a near explosion or the unstable crosshair size 
 while running, make the game a delicatessen, and every person who likes video games should give 
 it a try sometime.
  
  The single-player mode isn't too large nor too short, and considering the awesome quality of the 
 game, you'll be more than satisfied when you finish it. And once you finish it in normal --even 
 difficult -- level, you'll still want to get to the top of the Reichstag after a near-impossible 
 run in veteran.
  
  Call of Duty knocked out MOHAA in every departure --with the music as a possible exception -- , though 
 both games are quite similar. Medal of Honor is not the measurement in WWII shooters anymore. Heil 
 to the new King. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JBiker51
Rating: 9.7
Date: Feb 14, 2006 3:05 am PT
Review:  Call of Duty is an amazing game. It flourishes with quality everywhere, which is the first game 
 (besides HL2) that I can say this about. The single player missions are more than enjoyable; they're 
 must-plays! The acting in those missions, and the originality of them will keep you playing down 
 to the end sequence. One of my favorites is where you're riding in a car, shooting down enemies 
 to get to HQ, and around the next corner, a tank pops up!
  
  Also, the multiplayer is extraordinary as well. I noticed that this engine is the same engine that 
 they made Jedi Knight 2: Jedi Outcast and Jedi Academy. Those were great multiplayer games, and 
 this one's even better! The way they present it, I just can't explain; you have to see it for yourself.
 
  
  And now you have that chance. They're selling the original AND the expansion, United Offensive 
 (which is just as awesome, adds some sweet new campaign levels and multiplayer stuff) for $40, 
 which comes with the soundtrack and the Prima strategy guide for the first game. I suggest that 
 you get it now; it'; ll be worth it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dlisle20
Rating: 9.8
Date: Feb 12, 2006 4:24 pm PT
Review:  This game is amazing. The battles are intense and there is so much action and so much going on 
 around you in every mission. There is a variety of missions, Russian, American and British. The 
 Russian missions were my favourite, espiecally Stalingrad. The scenes were fantastic and so chaotic 
 and they made me feel like is was actually in a war. The sound is great, the graphics (at the time) 
 are brilliant, and overall the gameplay is stunning. The multiplayer is my favourite. There is 
 so much action and it's just plain fun. There is a variety of weapons and really good maps. The 
 whole game rocks, go buy it! i also recommend COD2 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jellix
Rating: 9.1
Date: Feb 11, 2006 2:20 am PT
Review:  GAMEPLAY
  -For the first time there is a shooter wich combiens all WWII aspects in one game.
  9/10
  
 
  GRAPHICS
  -Very good drawn. It gave me the feeling of WWII more as other games did.
  ex. : Medal Of Honor
  9/10
  
  SOUND
  -Superb!!! If you can use EAX 3 technology you here 
 sound so good you don't beliebve it is possible.
  10/10
  
  VALUE
  -I only have one word : Very Good
  9/10
  
  REVIEWER'S TILT
  -IDEM VALUE
  9/10
  
  
 CONCLUSION
  -I never played someting like this and this is why i love it. Infinity ward has to continue the 
 good work and make more masterpieces.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: iXBuRny
Rating: 9.8
Date: Feb 10, 2006 6:09 pm PT
Review:  Now I must say I LOVE THIS GAME! I was in love the moment I laid my hands upon the keyboard and 
 let the bullets fly...... This game had me hooked from day one. And when i did my first nade club, 
 oooh that was enough to make me laugh my ass off til i almost peed my pants! hehe
  This game has great maps, great game play, and best of all pretty balanced weapons that are pretty 
 kick ass! The panzers are awesome also. Single player was in my opinion the best SP game out there, 
 well until FEAR came out that is, but we will talk about that game in another review!
  I give this game a big TWO thumbs up! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: metkil
Rating: 9.2
Date: Feb 10, 2006 12:44 pm PT
Review:  This has to be one of my favorite World War 2 games EVER!! The single player is flawless. The same 
 goes for the multiplayer.
  
  Gameplay: WOW. That's about it. I got this game, and could not stop (that is till my comp crashed. 
 Damn AIM) . The single player gets you into the mind of a soldier. I was shocked that the game was 
 so good. The multiplayer was also really good. Lot's of servers now becasue of the update. Up to 
 64 player if I remember correctly. Still good.
  
  Graphics: I have a 64 MB video card, so mine sucked. But I know the graphics are really Good.
 
  
  Sound: The guns sound like guns. The booms sound like booms. The music could have been better though.
 
  
  Value: At the orginal price of $50, bad. But, they released a Game of Year edtion and its a lot 
 cheaper. Get the cheaper one.
  
  Fantasic game. Get it. Enjoy. Good Day 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Colonel_Snake
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 8, 2006 11:57 am PT
Review:  What can I tell you??? As someone who normally hates this type of game it is gr8! I can't say anything 
 about the single player; however the multiplayer is absolutely brilliant! You play with other real 
 people from all over the world and you can choose to be on which ever side you like! There are 
 literally hundreds of different maps and the graphics and sound are superb even if your squad all 
 look alike. There are different game modes for different experience. I personally prefer the sniper 
 servers its a bit calmer and requires more tactics than just running around shooting anything 
 that moves. I love it, my husband loves it, my kids love it, and so its a hit with us!
  
  Overall it is one of the best FPS games to buy if you have a low spec PC. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Beefycake
Rating: 9.2
Date: Feb 8, 2006 5:49 am PT
Review:  Once again this is another war game about .. well WW2. Now you are pretty much thinking this is 
 another WW2 FPS ( first person shooter) , with a typical storyline and pointless and unnecessary 
 violence, like some FPS. However Call of Duty is a completely different FPS and is quite an excellent 
 WW2 game. If you think youve played every WW2 game, then you need to play this!!
  The storyline ( or really the whole point) of Call of Duty, does take place 
  during the WW2, 
 and in this game you can experience the extreme battles and combats throught the eyes of differents 
 soldier in different campaign of ww2. 1) You play as Private. Martin, in the 506th Paratrooper, 
 as you prepare for the Paratrooper drop on D-day. 2) You play as Sgt. Evans in the British 6th infantry, 
 in the special force unit, as you and your fellow soldier must take and secure Pegasus Bridge 3) 
 and finally you play as a young Russian peasant Alexi who is conscripted ( meanin forced into) into 
 fighting in the Russian Infantry at Stalingrad. However there are more mission in each of the campaign.
 
  So the real question is... what makes Call of Duty a really great game? 
  well first off, unlike other WW2 games, Call of Duty is really an intense FPS. The battles and 
 combats youll fight in are absolutely extreme and intenese to the bone. You'll have to take cover, 
 dodge bullets, fight with your buddys and stay alive from all of the madness. The presentation 
 of Call of Duty is well scripted and makes you feel like you are fighting in Europe in WW2.
  The game itself is nodoubt excellent. The Graphics are pretty good and the backgrounds and scenes 
 youll see are really breathtaking and looks like the war torn Europe during that time. The Sound 
 is incredible!! The music done by the very talented Michael Giacchino, ( who worked on the Medal 
 of Honor series) does a great great job!!! The sound of the explosion and the weapons and characters 
 are excellent!! The gameplay is pretty good depending on the difficulty and how long you play. 
 And a cool thing that happens in the games is if you get hit by a motar shell, youll experience 
 shellshock, your vision will be blurry, youll be deafen for a while and everything slows down... AWESOME 
 AFFECT!!!! and if you finish all the mission, dont worry, cause there also MULTIPLAYER and boy 
 is it fun!!!!!!
  Overall I am really impressed by Call Of Duty, its a great games and if you love WW2 FPS or you 
 wish to play some intenese shooting, then CALL OF DUTY IS YOUR GAME OF CHOICE!!!!
  
  PROS: Very intenese combat, great sound and music, great multi player!!
  and very cool SHELLSHOCK 
 affect
  
  CONS: Should have been a few more mission added, and WHY DOES THE MP40 sound cartoony!?!?!? ( thats 
 the one thing i hate about this GAME!!) 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: FastrBlastr
Rating: 9.4
Date: Feb 4, 2006 6:00 pm PT
Review:  I recemend this game to people that have high performance computers. Its got a great single player 
 mode and best of all for people that have a fast enternet and like playing online the best online 
 mode in any game ive played. Its 1 of my favorit games and its really none stop action. Dont get 
 this game if your girlfriend wants to spend time with you or even if you dont like to get hooked 
 on games. This is the best multiplays games if played. I hate to say it but even i got hooked. I 
 love this game and hope others do. I hope some1 gets a great great great great great great great 
 great great great great great great great game because of me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: batesb01
Rating: 9.7
Date: Feb 1, 2006 7:44 am PT
Review:  What can i say really an amsing game with the best wwii action i have ever seen!! its so intense 
 with bullets flying past your head as you stick your head round the corner.... running thro trenches 
 etc... the best game i have ever played. I Need to go out and buy call of duty 2 now and the others 
 as well :) anyone know if theres any mods or addons for this game like bots for muitplayer mode? 
 would like to get some new stuff for it. i have completed the game all ready after only having 
 it for 3 days :D i loved it that much 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gr33nHippo
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 30, 2006 10:18 am PT
Review:  This game is awesome. The single player is great and everything, but it is the multiplayer that 
 has me addicted. The multiplayer had different modes, such as Search and Destroy, Deathmatch, Team 
 Deathmatch, and Headquarters. The best of course is Search and Destroy. In this mode either the 
 Axis or Allies, whichever is on offense, must destroy one objective out of two within a time period. 
 The objectives are usually anti air guns or tanks. The defense has to protect these objectives 
 from being blown up, or just kill all the people of offense. The match ends for the offense if 
 they kill all the defense or destroy an objective. In order to destroy an objective the offense 
 has to go to it and plant a bomb. If they succeed in planting the bomb, the defense has approximetely 
 1 minute to get to it and defuse. This mode is highly addicting, especially if you are with a team 
 and are talking over Vent or TS. The weapons are each different, and in each map there are some 
 weapons that will work better than others. 
  
  It is hard to describe how fun the multiplayer is. Trust me and get this game if you are a fan 
 of fps or WWII games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Leonard28
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 28, 2006 11:01 am PT
Review:  This is just one of the best WW2 games out there and if you own a pc then you simply have to buy 
 it. Why.... well because it looks really great and plays great as well. It is as intense as war 
 games get and beyond. The great graphics suck you into the game and the great soundtrack/effects 
 only back that up.
  It doesn't take much time to get into and it's great fun, the only problem is the length of the 
 game: short!! But in the short time you play CoD you will have a great time so it's forgiven. Also, 
 if you are looking for a shooter witch is tactical and slow this is obviously not the place to 
 look for it.
  The multiplayer is fun but a bit standard and couldn't interest me for very long. The conclusion 
 is that CoD delivers the best war experience there is but it's a great shame it last so short. 
 My advice: Buy this game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bupp
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jan 26, 2006 11:42 am PT
Review:  I used to be very into Half Life 1 and would check news about mods and such almost daily. One day 
 I read about Day of Defeat and was very excited to buy it once it came out. Several months later 
 I had forgotten what DoD was called, but I still wanted it. I went to EB Games and saw Call of 
 Duty. I mistook it for DoD and bought it. Now I'm glad I bought Call of Duty instead. Call of Duty 
 is the most intense WWII shooter I have ever played and it's also one of the best WWII shooters 
 ever. Call of Duty so realistically captures the chaos of war, you'd swear you were a soldier in 
 the 101st Airborne, fighting alongside your comrades. The chaos really makes this game one of the 
 best. The graphics in CoD are good, but not great. Character models are good and guns are excellent, 
 but some environments look pretty bland and low-res. The sound in this game is terrific. The loud 
 blast of machine gun fire and the crash of grenades and bombs sound so perfect. The cries let out 
 by Nazis and Allies alike. It al makes you feel like a small part of a big war. Unfortunately, 
 the game is a bit short. It's not that bad, but it could've been a little longer. Despite this, 
 Call of Duty is a really intense, realistic, and exciting WWII shooter. If you own a PC you owe 
 it to yourself to buy CoD. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sharkluver3152
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jan 22, 2006 6:40 pm PT
Review:  Call of Duty is one of the best war games out there. In it you play as one of the Russians, British 
 and American. In the game there are missions where you have to blow things up, save a P. O. W., destroy 
 tanks, shoot out of a window of a car and drive a tank around. Graphics are great, but the lip 
 syncing looks funny and the ground looks smugy from a distance (like in most games) , sound are 
 great, especialy when motars are falling from the sky. When there is a explosion in front of you, 
 your vision goes blurry and you have a hard time hearing things. Multiplayer is fun, there are 
 lots of servers and lots of good people online. I love COD and i recomend it to everyone. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GhettoChild1260
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jan 22, 2006 5:09 pm PT
Review:  There have been so many world war 2 games out there that anybody can easily lose count. But there 
 are few gems that come out that redifine the genre. This is one of those games. Call of Duty's 
 takes history and makes it fun. The authenticity of the weapons or the battles glues you to your 
 screen for hours. The battle of Stalingrad or Retaking Red Square has you smack dab in the middle 
 of heavy machine gun fire. Forcing you to find cover and hide or face death. Not to mention of 
 a great multiplayer. This game is one of the best games you will ever play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SpartanB2D
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jan 18, 2006 6:19 pm PT
Review:  The best world war two shooter you can play. It starts out as any first person shooter does with 
 a training level tat teahces you everything you know already, but right from tehre, it becomes 
 the most addictive game ever. It is very fun how you can't do everything yourself like you do in 
 other fps's like Halo and medal of Honor, but how you have to reley on your squad in order to complete 
 missions. The games gets hard, but nothing too hard that a few trys won't be able to beat, and 
 even when it is hard, it kicks ass. Also, the online play is really fun. Instant Classic. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: otownshend
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jan 18, 2006 7:40 am PT
Review:  This game is superb.
  
  When I finished the tutorial of the game, you drop in to the main game. 
  You start playing as 
 an American Infantryman then a British Soldier and then a Russian Volunteer.
  
  I found playing as the British Soldier defending Pegasis Bridge to be a challenge but fun. But 
 playing as the Russian trying to take Stallengrade to be really difficult but hard fought battling 
 pays off.
  
  This game is best played with Surround Sound system volume turned up!! Real Effects and pleasure.
 
  
  I would recommend this game to anyone and a hand shake to the developers! Nice one 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CTOCTOCTO
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jan 15, 2006 5:48 pm PT
Review:  The awesome level design is another part of Call of Duty's appeal. You're generally on a somewhat 
 linear path, but the environments feel open and offer lots of possible approaches. Often you'll 
 capture a bridge or similarly strategic position, then spend the next few missions defending it 
 or otherwise operating in that vicinity, which proves really engaging. 
  
  Like a crafty poker player, Call of Duty sees Allied Assault's production value and raises it one. 
 The amazing graphics mix lush scenery with lithe animations and stop-to-gape moments like the sky 
 filling with parachutes. The audio is equally powerful, delivering stirring music, great dialogue, 
 and the most thunderous weapon sound effects ever. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sirian808
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jan 11, 2006 7:12 pm PT
Review:  GAMEPLAY: 9/10
  This game is really fun. There are a lot of missions and they all rock. There's a ton of variety, 
 levels are fairly large, and the game is challenging, but not impossible. It really does World 
 War II justice.
  
  GRAPHICS: 9/10
  Absolutely amazing for the time. On my computer, with 512 MB of RAM, it never lags, even while 
 playing online. Everything runs smooth and flawlessly, no matter how much stuff there is to display.
 
  
  SOUND: 9/10
  Lots of quality voiceovers and sounds to be heard, lots and lots. Your comrades, quite frankly, 
 are complete chatterboxes, so you'll never feel alone, like you do right now, sitting in your mom's 
 basement thinking, "I wish coach had put me in back in '82. We could've gone state."
  
  VALUE: 8/10
  Value is a tough one for any game, but I think that Call of Duty pulls it off rather 
 nicely. The online rocks, the single player is solid, and overall, it's fairly addicting.
  
  TILT: 9/10
  Call of Duty has the makings of a wonderful game, and it depicts well some of 
 the major battles of World War II. I could recommend this game to any history buff, WWII shooter 
 fanatic, video game player, or milkman out there. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Fisher117
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 11, 2006 2:57 pm PT
Review:  This game is one of the best games I have ever played. It will grab hold of you and pistol whip 
 you into submission. From the very beginning to the very end this is a great game. This game takes 
 the Medal of Honor series and beats it with a wooden club. The one man army in those games makes 
 you seem like Master Chief . If you try and the one man army in this game you will die over and 
 over again. It thrust you in to war and doesn't let up until you die. From the Russian missions 
 ( which most are slaughters than a battle) to the American, and British missions. This game is 
 worth every penny you will not regret this game when you buy it. This game delivers if you own 
 a computer you must own this game. It is truly one of the best games i have ever played. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 20860399346417257776889966510425-bull_people
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jan 10, 2006 9:27 pm PT
Review:  There have been a lot of WWII FPS games released in the last few years and most of them are on 
 PC or are ported to the PC from consoles so there is no room for mistakes when it comes to making 
 a WWII FPS. Infinity Ward has come alone and done what I thought to be impossible, put almost all 
 other WWII FPS to shame with its action packed Single Player campaigns and its addictive Multiplayer.
 
  
  Gameplay,
  The gameplay in Call of Duty is solid and you will get a huge range of weapons to choose from, 
 all of these weapons are ether from the Stated, UK, Russia or Germany. All the weapons are fun 
 to use except for some of the handguns. 
  
  Another thing that makes Call of Duty stick out from the rest is you will never find yourself alone 
 aside from some of the British commando missions; this gives you a great feel of being in a battlefield. 
 Still you will end up killing an unrealistic amount of Germans. 
  
  Overall the gameplay in Call of Duty is solid and most of all fun, if you are looking for a WWII 
 FPS that sticks out from the rest then Call of Duty is the answer.
  
  Graphics,
  The engine running Call of Duty is the Quake III engine which is over four years old so dont expect 
 top of the line graphics but the Call of Duty just shows the engine still has some power left in 
 it just dont expect too much from it.
  
  One thing you may notice is there are no shadows coming off your fellow soldiers or the enemy German 
 soldiers as you play though the game but this is easy to over look. Building and objects all have 
 their own shadows and the sunlight is very realistic, even when you look up at the sun for a short 
 time the screen will blur a bit. 
  
  The character models or the look of the people is not too great, its very hard to see there expressions 
 and it looks very plastic but the weapons all look great and the explosions look very realistic.
 
  
  The framerate in Call of Duty is much better than most other games on the market but there are 
 times in the campaigns where it will drop a bit but this is very easy to over look. 
  
  Sound,
  The sound in Call of Duty is top of the line, thats all that can really be said about 
 it, its that damn good. 
  
  All the weapons sound like they should and if you watch some WWII movies the reloading and firing 
 sound very simular to that of the game. The voice acting superb in Call of Duty and everybody sounds 
 how they should but there is one letdown, the Russian soldiers speak in English but the Germans 
 speak in German so its easy to overlook
  
  Overall the sound in Call of Duty is top of the line and maybe one of the best sounding games this 
 year (2003) .
  
  Value, 
  The campaigns in Call of Duty are short but extremely fun and it wont hurt to play it over and 
 over again but at the end of the day they are very short but fun campaigns. But this is where multiplayer 
 comes in.
  The multiplayer in Call of Duty in very addictive and overall superb, because its using the Quake 
 III engine Call of Duty works very well when it comes to multiplayer. There are a large number 
 of maps to choose from and some great multiplayer modes. Overall when it comes to the multiplayer 
 side of things its the best aspect of the game. 
  
  
  Overall,
  If you are someone who still likes WWII FPS or FPS at all get this game you will never regret it 
 but if you are not to keen on the FPS genre then this most likely wont change that.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: temj29
Rating: 7.6
Date: Jan 10, 2006 1:00 pm PT
Review:  I don't have a lot of experience with FPS. As a matter of fact Battlefield 1942 and Max Payne 2 
 were my last ones. This game game takes the good aspects of both of these games and amplifies them! 
 That's a good thing. The bad thing is that there is no balance in the single player missions. I 
 played at the "normal" setting. Some of the missions are downright easy, and some of them are darn 
 near impossible. I breezed through some and the others I died, and died, and died. This is a very 
 good FPS, just be prepared to be frustrated. I just bought the game last week and finished it today 
 - all told about 15-18 hours. I am glad I didn't pay full price for the game due to that fact. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TonicBH
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jan 9, 2006 12:21 am PT
Review:  World War II video games have been becoming popular, with many games coming and going, some games 
 getting popularity and others biting the dust. Call of Duty is one of the best World War II games 
 ever.
  
  In the game, you go by three different soldiers, one each from America, the British and the Soviets. 
 This variety makes the game feel less stale. As opposed to games like Medal of Honor where you'd 
 be stuck with a few squadmates, instead you work with sometimes many different soldiers, a lot 
 more than the average World War II game. This is a great plus, which means not everything has to 
 be fought by you and only you.
  
  There are a few levels where you're strictly inside a vehicle, which is a nice twist on the game, 
 especially when shooting a weapon while inside a vehicle, which is a nice thrill. Later on, you 
 also get to drive a tank, which is just another way to to ease the monotony of shooting levels.
 
  
  Downright, some of the best levels in the game are the levels where you're a part of the Soviet 
 Army. The overall feel of it made me feel for these people. A bit of a twist on what I had already 
 experienced. When I went through, I had absolutely no weapon so I had to get through the first 
 level and part of the second weaponless. It was tense and suspenseful.
  
  There are a slew of weapons in the game, all based off their World War II counterparts. You got 
 most of the American weapons such as the Thompson, the M1 Garand, and several British and Soviet 
 weapons. You can also pick up German weapons, which is a slight change of pace.
  
  The graphics look pretty good for a 2003 game on a then 4-year-old engine (Quake III) . While everything 
 may not look top-notch, it works well with what's given. However, I find it odd that there is absolutely 
 no form of ragdoll physics, which by 2003 was starting to become the norm for most games.
  
  Most of the voices sound very much like they're in a war-torn zone, which fits the mood. Only 
 problem I had was the Soviets spoke in English with a stereotypical soviet accent, while Germans 
 speak clear German. I would've settled for Russian with English subtitles, would've fit better. 
 All the weapons sounds generally how they should.
  
  The music comes as a mix between "crash-bang-boom" and very thematic pieces. Various parts, such 
 as early levels of the Soviet campaign, have very exceptional music, and really sets the mood, 
 and sounds incredible. Michael Giacchino is a bit of a hit-and-miss with this game, but it works.
 
  
  Of course, once you're done going through the singleplayer campaign of Call of Duty (which takes 
 several hours) , you got multiplayer to tide you over. There's standard Deathmatch and Team Deathmatch, 
 including game modes like Search and Destroy (which resembles Counter-Strike's bomb defusal modes) , 
 Headquarters (find a radio and get points for every second you hold onto it) , Behind Enemy Lines 
 (Allies get points for staying alive against the overpowered Axis) and Retrieval (Similar to Capture 
 the Flag except round-based and one team must grab the item while the other defends it) . These 
 will give tons of gameplay fun, which tides you over.
  
  The game is however without its problems. The A. I. is passable at best, and some of the time you 
 will have to rely on trial-and-error to continue on. This becomes the most problematic with the 
 British levels, and less so with the other missions. The game can be a little frustrating at times, 
 especially during tank and vehicle missions where you can't regain health. Also health packs tend 
 to be few and far between, and there were several missions towards the end where I had to work 
 entirely on luck and timing so that I could get through easily.
  
  Call of Duty may be just another World War II first-person shooter. But in the gamut of those games, 
 this is one of the best and must be played. The singleplayer campaign is exceptional, and you got 
 a good multiplayer to back it up. This may have a few shortcomings, but they're not bothersome 
 enough to completely damage the game.
  
  Pros: Great singleplayer, Good multiplayer, nice variety of weapons and levels, good music.
  
 Cons: Soviets with English voices, A. I. is a bit troublesome, game tends to get a bit tough at 
 certain moments. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nimatoad2000
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jan 8, 2006 6:07 pm PT
Review:  this game is amazing , the 3 nations perspective is great and never before seen .
  
  all the guys are very well rendered and sound real, and doing their respective damage. also the 
 counterstrike way of moving depending on your gun is also represented here.
  
  the gameplay gets a 9 because its amazing , very fun and very rewarding. the only one little thing 
 i had with the game is the tank scenario is a little bland and snipers can get you too easily.
 
  the graphics get an 8 because their not the best but it still looks good , built off the quake 
 3 engine so nothing amazing. but most midlline computers can max it out.
  
  the sound is awesome and call of duty has been said to have great sound , its true.
  the value 
 is that after u play the single player and then try to beat it on hardest mode , witch is hard! 
 , the multyplayer is awesome , and even today a few years after the game came out the multiplayer 
 is holding strong 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Luigino_mp
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jan 6, 2006 4:22 pm PT
Review:  Call of Duty is one of the best games of its genre. Not a lot of games can match its prowess. With 
 good visuals, chaotic gameplay, and nice music to boot, how could they?
  The story mode is different from most. It doesn't really have much of a "story" going on. It more 
 than makes up for it in the gameplay, however. You take the roll of 3 soldiers on a mission to 
 fight the Axis. Each of them, American, Brittish, and Russian, have their own types of weapons 
 ranging from pistols, grenades, sniper rifles, regular rifles, light machine guns, automatic rifles, 
 as well as submachine guns. What you use depends mainly on your preference for the current situation. 
 I suggest careful deliberation on this if your one of those gamers who struggles to acheive perfect 
 completion of the games they play.
  The missions vary from capturing the town of St. Mere Eglise, infiltrating the german battleship 
 Turpitz, to reaching the top of the Reichstag and raising the Red flag to symbolize the downfall 
 of Berlin and the Nazi heart.
  Its main point isn't the story mode, however. It's the multiplayer mode that grabs players' attentions 
 when it comes to having the ultimate rush. Double the noises, double the carnage, and zero the 
 thinking time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 2nd_II_None
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jan 3, 2006 9:20 pm PT
Review:  The minute i started playing this game i was blown away at what this game could present, for its 
 time anyway, this game was revolutionary at the time before they had the Xbox 360 and all of the 
 Hi-Def consoles that we have today, the online play for the Comp. was great and immersive it really 
 made you feel like you were at war with other people, because when graphics are that good and the 
 people are that skilled, you can pwn them and call your self a "God Of War". The sheer indulging 
 gameplay of this game made a "Game Of The Year" instant classic. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: duxy33
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jan 3, 2006 5:52 pm PT
Review:  When you play this game, you get the immediate reaction of playing Medal Of Honour, but No. Call 
 of Duty kills MOHAA in many aspects of the game. You play through the game as 3 different characters 
 from the Americans, British, and the Russians. Each at different stages of the single player missions. This 
 game gives you more battle realism, with allies at your side for a change, and the enjoyment of 
 barging your way through enemy lines.
  
  Reasons why it is so much better than MOHAA is because you can scope through every gun available 
 in this game, the game play is significantly better, graphics is top notch, and you just enhance 
 your performance of FPS to another level.
  
  One level reminds you of the movie enemy at the gates, which is awesome to play as because it actually 
 feels realistic...
  
  The best thing about this game is the satisfaction of using various types of weapons, being able 
 to play as different countries in different locations around the world (one which you actually 
 battle in Berlin) .
  
  A fantastic game to play dominating the competitor of the MOHAA series. Single player campaign 
 would be enough to make you energized, but you can also play multiplayer which extends your pleasure 
 of playing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: WhitePenguin
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jan 1, 2006 10:45 pm PT
Review:  I got this game for only 20$ bux last year and it has to be the best 20 dollar game I've ever bought 
 (even though it was 50$ wen it came out) . This is exatly what every game's standards should be. 
 The singleplayer, multiplayer, and everything is absolutly amazing. The ambiance and presentation 
 are some of the best in a game ever. The graphics, not the OMFG graphics anymore, but it does still 
 look good. The sound, absolutly awesome, from the mega-good voice-overs to the excellent musical 
 score. The gameplay, really, really easy to get into and is very fun. Overall, a well made masterpiece. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kazuya_m
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jan 1, 2006 5:05 am PT
Review:  In 1939 Hitler and germany crossed the border of Polend and conquered the country This was the 
 beginning of one of the worlds darkest hours. 6 years and 20 million dead people later one proud 
 man climbed up the heavily damaged Reichstag to run up his flag.
  So much for the story background, now some basics.
  Even though that this game about the World 
 War 2 is allready more then a year old it hasn't lost anything of it's atmosphere tention and it's 
 message that war is not a game but the most brutal invention mankind could ever make, even though 
 that there is almost no gore, just a lot of dead corpses
  I don't need to tell you that the sound is the greatest part of this game, which makes the atmosphere 
 even more brutal.
  For those with low and mid end PCs, this is really still worth a buy 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dashizy666
Rating: 9.6
Date: Dec 31, 2005 8:53 am PT
Review:  I played the game on a HP pavilion 2.2 gig with a radeon 9600 card ( the hp is in storage) anyway 
 the game is solid. Even though it's linear the expirence is a pleasing one. The graphics are top 
 notch the sound is unbelivable just intense overall. Even though I'm a console gamer, I know a 
 good game when I see it and this hits the mark. With any WW2 shooter, ( no make that any FPS I need 
 a good sniper rifle I don't know why I just need one) and the sniper for this game kicks a$$. What 
 like most about it is the different scopes and crosshairs. Best ww2 series by far. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: devildweller98
Rating: 9.7
Date: Dec 27, 2005 11:15 am PT
Review:  Oh my god. Call of duty is brilliant. The best and most intense 1st person shooter ever made. Im 
 a big fan of Medal of honor, but Call of duty is well better. the graphics are amazing. The gameplay 
 is intense and i love it. A classic. Amazing on-line multiplaying. Highly addictive. The background 
 graphics are beautifull and outstanding. Very good job done. Experience the cinematic intensity 
 of world war 2's epic battles. The way war is. In war no one fights alone! Play war through the 
 eyes of american, british and russian soldiers. Outstanding, Amazing, Masterpiece, Classic. A must 
 have for a 1st person shooter nut. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sergey_z100
Rating: 9.3
Date: Dec 27, 2005 7:53 am PT
Review:  Before call fo duty there have been other ww2 games such as the medal of honor series. They were 
 great but never captured my attention as much as call of duty did. You see there are a lot of god 
 things to talk about this game. The gamesplay is really good ,it will keep you hours and hours online 
 and the single player is really good too. You can three different campaigns with the americans ,the 
 british and the soviets. The british missions could have been better. The graphics are also great. The 
 facial expressions on peoples faces are remarkable. The best part about this game is the audio. The 
 sound is really great the way bombs go off or airplanes whatever... The value is priceless since 
 you'll be hooked online for a long time. So these are the good things to talk about the game. There's 
 nothing really bad about this game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SSJ4-SaGohan
Rating: 8.3
Date: Dec 25, 2005 6:08 pm PT
Review:  Hello everyone my name is SSJ4-SaGohan, and today I will be introducing a game called: Call of 
 Duty (for the PC) . This is one of the lastest games that I know besides Dragonball Z Budokai Tenkaichi 
 (if you know the game) .
  
  This game is about wars in the past time. The game takes place in North America, Europe, and Asia. 
 This game is great and all but there are just some problems to this game that I thing everyones 
 wants, and the company wants but they say that it's too hard. 
  
  Here are the following good thing and bad thing about this game:
  
  Good thing: This game has 
 lots of great levels to play, great graphics, and the sounds are awesome . This game has lots of 
 details when you get hit by a cannon, guns, and when you fall off from a high place. The way they 
 talk about the briefing, makes you want to play the missions and it also wants you to buy this 
 game.
  
  Bad thing: I don't really say that this game is bad, but it's true. The bad thing for this game 
 is that you can't go to some part of the map. Like over a fence, cross over a field where your 
 not suppose to go, and into or onto a building or a tank. I think that they did that is because, 
 if you do those things, for example crossing over a fence where your not suppose to go, you will 
 end up to far and might as well get lost. This is really hard to invent because the creator (s) 
 will have to do this over and over and over. It would be cool it that was true.
  
  Now that you know about that, I should tell you about this very important thing, you should never 
 do if you don't want to load a file over and over.
  
  1. Never go to far from the objective (for example is the mission is to seek a crashed tank, then 
 don't go the opposite way of where your suppose to go or you'll lose.
  
  2. Don't ever shoot at your friend. You will lose also.
  
  3. Don't ever do anything foolish 
 or waste time because when I played this game and I went to the washroom for about 5 minutes, while 
 the game was not paused, I lost and it said, that you were being follish.
  
  This game is not the best game but this is the best COD (Call of Duty) game ever invented in the 
 whole world. It even says so one the rating.
  
  Ciao 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ernest132132
Rating: 9.6
Date: Dec 25, 2005 12:14 pm PT
Review:  THis rocks. If you find some one who doesn't like this game, I will be very surpised. They can 
 drive tanks and everything. You have super computer AI! The germans put up a good fight too. THey 
 are like this is a real war! You can use all types of weapons to the GARAND, to the Fg42 to the 
 pazerfaust! Buy this game or you're leving a very good deal! This game is one of the best game 
 in the whole entire freakin galxy! Impossibel to not ressist this game. This game should be givin 
 the best game of the year award of 2003! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: maxdemobster
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 1, 2006 7:31 am PT
Review:  OVERALL: Before the release of this game, I had known that this will be an amazing game and when 
 I got it, I was even more impressed. Many people, that haven`t seen this game would probably ask 
 themselfs: Why is this game so good? The answer is simple - because of its reality. The graphics, 
 sounds and authentic presentation are so good, that it will make you feel this game - as a soldier.
 
  
  GAMEPLAY: You will fight alongside your comrades and you will either win with them or die with 
 them - this means, that friendly soldiers will help you fight your enemy. You will play on 3 different 
 sides: as American, Russian and British soldier (you won`t be able choose, which side to play, 
 it will progress automaticly) . There will be a lot of intense fightings, when you will have to 
 use all of your skills and knoweldge.
  What I like especially are the explosions, Machine Guns and vehicles. Explosions will not fall 
 in one places and will kill you instantly if you are near; MG will literally spray the area with 
 bullets, so if you run to the enemy with guns blazing, you will be killed. Therefor you will need 
 to use a lot of cover. Tanks and other vehicles will be also present - and this time, they will 
 be hard to defeat, if you don`t have enought ammo for AT weaponary (for example you are pinned 
 down by a tank`s MG and you don`t have any more ammo, but the tank is still not destroyed - then 
 you will have to pretend the gunner and also soldiers, that will try to stop you - and that can 
 be sometimes suicide) . But you will drive your own tank in some missions (there are also friendly 
 tanks, that will battle alongside you) - this is the unique opprutinity to see, how does a tank 
 battle look like. 
  Another thing are the weapons - there are a lot of them and you can carry only 2 primary weapons, 
 beside explosives (mainly grenades) and sidearm (pistol actually) ..
  
  GRAPHICS: As I have said, they are very good. Especially characters faces are real and blood effects 
 are also good.
  
  SOUNDS: The are very good, especially weapons fire (which is quite realistic) and the sound, when 
 a grenade hits the ground somewhere near you - for some seconds, you will hear that ringing sound, 
 which is particularry annoying, but also realistic.
  
  MULTIPLAYER: Good and you won`t surrely get bored with it. The only bad thing is the movement of 
 a player - it is little clumsy and the number of SMG bullets you need to kill someone is just unreal 
 (this fact is also true for M1 Carbine) .
  
  FINAL THOUGHTS: If you want an action, get this game quick.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Pvt_binkowski
Rating: 9.6
Date: Dec 24, 2005 11:34 am PT
Review:  Call of Duty is a well placed action shooter. You first start with a training mission with the 
 Americans at the camp in which the real 101st Airbrorne had trained. Then you parachute into Normandy 
 on D-Day and a daring POW camp raid. After the American campaing you go to the British 6th Airborne 
 on one of the most daring raids of all time. The capturing and frantic defense of The Pegasus Bridge. 
 Raiding the Eder Dam. And sinking of the Tirpitz. The third campaing is centered around the Soviet 
 struggle to push the germans out of Russia. You play as a conscript named Alexi and it is totally 
 based on fact no fiction in this game the Russians will actually shoot you if you retreat (just 
 like when your men retreat) and then you rise through the ranks eventually making it to tank commader 
 and sergeant and then the last level the fall of Berlin you and your men attack the Riechstag just 
 like what happend that fatefull day in May of 1945. Call of Duty will go down as one of the Best 
 shooters of all time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheBoss1972
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 23, 2005 4:43 pm PT
Review:  Out of all the games I've reviewed this one has taken the cake. How? I'll tell you how. The game 
 has magnificent sound that actually puts you in the middle of the battlefield. The graphics is 
 also another thing that impressed me. The story is the same old thing. Takes place during world 
 war 2. You fight as your grandpa. Well I really don't have to explain the rest. Espically the price 
 you could get it at gamestop for 15.00 dollers now I don't know about you but damn thats a good 
 price. The controls are easy to learn so theres no need to worry about that. Another thing that 
 got me was the online play. Sure I died over a million times but I also got some kills. Unlike 
 the consoles the multiplayer feature carries over 60 players a game thats better than what you 
 usually get. Now the single player has 3 different campaignes. You play as the good ol USA, Great 
 Britan, and the Great Motherland of Russia. This game is not a one man army shooter you also have 
 comrades that actually kill the enemy and provide cover. The AI is also good for example say that 
 you throw a grenade at an enemy position the enemy will run away from that position to get away. 
 Their even smart in firefights so don't go thinking you can put in over 100 rounds and kill them 
 all. What got me was the audio and dialog. The voices in the game are very realistic. For example 
 if you play as a russian soldier your comrades will have a russian accent so it makes you actually 
 feel like your in the war. In the beginning you play as the elite airbourne division of america. 
 There are over a dozen of weapons from each country weather it comes to the german Kar98 or blasting 
 them with a 1940's thompson you will have the most fun out of this game. you do however have to 
 get a subscribtion to gamespy for the online play. The multiplayer has many games such as deathmatch, 
 team deathmatch, Capture the Flag, and search and destroy. When you get killed in online play you 
 get to look through your killers eyes and see how he killed you this feature is called the Killcam. 
 This game has my highest recommendation. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bombshell_Bob
Rating: 9.7
Date: Dec 22, 2005 1:53 pm PT
Review:  Were to start, call of duty is an awesome FPS. The multiplayer is unbeatable, better than Halo: 
 combat evolved ten fold! It's just hard enough and the graphics are really good, sort of bad compared 
 to COD 2 but they hold up. The single player is kick a** too. You play as russians, american, and 
 british soilders and their missions are long, but they never get old. The sound is great too, the 
 artillary has a ringing whooshing sound before it hits! The multiplayer makes this game shine though 
 ten different game types 4 of which are played all the time. And always good low ping servers the 
 best WWII FPS ever! The expansion pack lets you use tanks online! YOU NEED TO GET THIS GAME AND 
 THE EXPANSION PACK IT RULES!!!!!!! Sorry for the typos i love this game so much i write too fast 
 and i don't have the attention span to fix them. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: doolindesperado
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 22, 2005 11:19 am PT
Review:  Call of Duty is an intense game with very high production values. I have a weaker graphics card, 
 but the game ran smoothly. I love this game, the fire fights were so intense, and the single player 
 mode is breath taking. I have nothing but praise for this game. I beat it twice, and I cant wait 
 to build my new computer so I can play the sequel and see what this work of art looks like pushed 
 to its limit. 
  
  If you love World War 2, of love first person shooters, Call of Duty is for you. This game is the 
 most bad-ass first person shooter I have ever played!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: NickJam
Rating: 9.8
Date: Dec 21, 2005 1:59 pm PT
Review:  THis game Call Of Duty is probly the best WWII game ever. Well in my opinion it is. The gameplay 
 is so realistic. The graphics are amazing and detailed, you have to duck behind objects when the 
 Nazis are shooting at you, and best of all your with other soldiers. Instead of just you against 
 the world, which is how most games are. THe game play is great when your with other troops. Activision 
 did an awsome job on this game. I have already beat Call Of Duty, Call Of Duty United Offensive, 
 and I am waiting for Call Of Duty 2. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ElAnarquista
Rating: 9.7
Date: Dec 21, 2005 12:12 pm PT
Review:  I picked up Call of Duty shortly after it came out, and I'm still amazed every time I play through 
 the campaign or fight online. My breakdown of Call of Duty will focus on what I find the most important 
 aspects of any game, from most to least important:
  
  GAMEPLAY:
  The gameplay in CoD blew me away. Everything feels intuitive, and all of the FPS staples are present. 
 Aiming took a whole new direction in CoD, I believe this game was the first to use the "iron sights" 
 of the gun. This makes it much easier to pull off that headshot, and very realistic as well. The 
 missions, though a little unrealistic because of the overwhelming amounts of action, all come from 
 historical sources. The 101st Airborne lands in Normandy on D-Day-1 to set up beacons, the British 
 defend the legendary Pegasus Bridge, and the Russians struggle up the banks of Stalingrad in the 
 most impressive scripted battle I've seen in any other game except CoD2. The weapons perform like 
 their real life counterparts, and for the most part look like the real thing as well. Overall, 
 the only weakness I found in gameplay was the lack of a sprint button, which Grey Matter fixed 
 when they released UO.
  
  MULTIPLAYER:
  The multiplayer in CoD destroys all competition except for the expansion and the sequel. Massive 
 online fights with up to 64 players can be found online (even though the game technically only 
 supports 16) , and even today developers are still making custom maps. Game modes include Deathmatch, 
 Team Deathmatch, Search and Destroy (counterstrike) , Behind Enemy Lines, Headquarters, and Capture 
 the Flag (mod) . Behind Enemy Lines plays very uniquely. A small squad of Allied soldiers fight 
 a huge number of Germans, and when one Ally dies he becomes German, while the German that killed 
 him respawns as Allied. I find that the most interesting game, though it rarely has any players. 
 Team Deathmatch shines, especially if you have Teamspeak, and mods to the game keep it fresh even 
 all these years later. Here, I'll have to say I liked CoD even better than CoD2, the multiplayer 
 is more polished and innovative.
  
  GRAPHICS:
  I'm going to be honest here. Call of Duty's graphics do lack compared to most of today's games, 
 but it was made in 2003. I gave the graphics an 8 because they look amazing for when the game was 
 made and they get the job done. Particle effects are great, and the water looks pretty good as 
 well. Detailed environments still look pretty nice and the characters look good as well. The physics 
 engine is a modified Quake III engine, so there's a little bit to be found there, but nothing like 
 the UT2004 engine. The graphics for this game work well, especially since you won't really notice 
 them while you're crawling under German MG42 fire to lob a grenade into his position so you can 
 blow his flak cannon and move on to the next objective.
  
  SOUND:
  I don't know how to explain CoD's sound. Amazing doesn't quite cut it. The sound immerses you in 
 the games environment, the voice acting and weapon sounds are superb. My favorite aspect about 
 the sound is the ambient sound. You never feel isolated, you always feel like your allies are right 
 on the other block, continuing their mission as planned. The exception, of course, is Pegasus Bridge, 
 where you feel isolated and alone with your small squad fighting off the German advance.
  
  VALUE:
  The campaign is a little short, but intense. The multiplayer is amazing. I give value 
 a 10.0 as well, simply because I've had this game since it came out and I just played through the 
 campaign for it and the expansion again a few days ago. I've played through the campaign countless 
 times, and haven't grown tired of it. This game amazed me, I believe it is the masterpiece of WWII 
 shooters, and it is only surpassed by its expansion and sequel. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jonyunotme108
Rating: 8.9
Date: Dec 17, 2005 2:12 pm PT
Review:  Ok the thing of call of duty that really stand out is the online play. Co-op capture the flag in 
 WWII who wouldnt want that its amazing. The graphics are like doubles towards the consoles version 
 making it feel more realistic. And its the greatest WWII fps since medal of honor -- Its missions 
 are as deep as medal of honor only better-The AI are smarter than ever its almost amazing makign 
 this game challenging -- Ive been playing this ever since it came out and i cant get enough of it, 
 if your a medal of honor fan u have to buy this game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DbSolutions
Rating: 9.7
Date: Dec 16, 2005 4:46 am PT
Review:  This game is great really allows you to feel the rush of success and gets you thinking of what 
 they had to go through if only in a sense.
  
  Nice game and glad I got it. Deffinately worth the money I spent and I a glad to see that there 
 are still companies out there that make a solid game straight out of the box.
  
  Now if only some of the online games coudl figure out how to make thier games like this it would 
 be a wonderful world.
  
  The grpahics are to die for and the sounds are great especially turned up with surround really 
 makes you go into the game and gets your adrinaline pumping and makes you sweeat a little. The 
 single player offers a lot of substance and difficully and the multi-player is great and you get 
 to meet some great people who enjoy the game for what it is and make it a great way to enjoy this 
 game even further.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Spodo_Kmodo
Rating: 9.8
Date: Dec 15, 2005 2:25 am PT
Review:  It's an old game, so don't expect anything really special from the graphics, 
  the sound is crackly in places but fantastic otherwise, the missions are great, putting you in 
 the boots of three people, one british, one russian, one american, and when finished, you can go 
 to the infinite multiplayer, that will never get boring, (unless you don't get any new maps)
  
  The story mode is quite long aswell, suprisingly, because it's the only call of duty game with 
 a big story. 
  
  NO GLITCHES!!!! Apart from one, little one.
  
  When you kill someone, sometimes, their heads pokes through the wll or door.
  
  The guns are 
 accurate to the real guns, and really gets you scared when you know there are hundreds or germans 
 hunting you down.
  
  If you like MOH get it and convert!!
  
  If you hate history... Don't!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sagacious_Tien
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 19, 2005 8:11 pm PT
Review:  Capitalising on popular genres is gaining in popularity - and WWII-themed first-person shooters 
 are red hot at the moment. With their current and future popularity, Call of Duty has to be pretty 
 special to garner interest in a genre so fiercly contested. Developer Infinity Ward is a new studio 
 comprised of many of the people who brought us the equally excellent Medal of Honor: Allied Assault, 
 and expectations have been high for their latest title. Fans will be pleased to learn that Call 
 of Duty is an excellent addition to the genre.
  
  Taking advantage of what they have learned through their previous effort in Medal of Honor: Allied 
 Assault, the team has gone to great lengths to ensure that the intense shooter gameplay is retained, 
 through heart stopping set pieces and excellent level design. Gamers will be amazed at the authentic 
 recreation of some of the harshest battles ever fought. 
  
  Call of Duty is not an innovative title. Thankfully, it doesn't pretend to be. The campaign is 
 a combination of some of the best parts of other World War 2 shooters, assembled in a new and enticing 
 way. While innovation is lacking, developer Infinity Ward have designed an excellent game that 
 will please even the most jaded of gamers. It has rounded out gameplay derived from other titles 
 like Battlefield 1942 and Medal of Honor: Allied Assault, but given a fresh perspective and a raw 
 intensity that has not been previously achieved.
  
  This is convincingly achieved by the level design, which is linear and still feels open. It has 
 been designed to look much bigger than it actually is. Obstructions such as fallen debris and minefields 
 make you walk set paths that easily lead you to your objectives and the enemy between you and them. 
 You won't need to collect keys or even open doors throughout the 12-hour long campaign, the seamless 
 design helops break down the get one key, open this door feel of other first-person shooters.
 
  
  In truth, this comfortable level of creativity targets those who don't normally play titles like 
 Call of Duty, though it also caters for the experts. It is hopeful that future titles keep the 
 same level of design, keeping levels straightforward and still give the player a great degree of 
 choice. Especially in an atmosphere as intense as Call Of Duty's.
  
  Crawling, hunched down as a Tank targets you near a battered church, you overhear your sergeant 
 yell to get the anti-tank missile and blow that mother sky high. Dodging a hail of bullets, you 
 race through the scene as bits of rubble are thrown everywhere around you. You burst into the church, 
 arm and equip your new weapon, and eagerly go to show your prowess. However, you are shot down 
 from the guards who ambush you outside the entrance - they had seen you go in. 
  
  The high level of A. I as well as the all-consuming atmosphere takes gameplay to a depth unequalled 
 by Call of Duty's forebears - there is far too much going on for you to take a breath sometimes.
 
  
  Archival footage begins your every mission, with briefings showing actual footage of soldiers racing 
 into a hail of bullets, tactical maps showing troop deployments and more. Developer Infinity Ward 
 have struck a great balance between run and gun gameplay, and have also created a good sense of 
 sentimentality for those who did not come back. 
  
  Call of Duty's campaign packs a sentimental punch, it's emotional and still incorporates some of 
 the most incredible set pieces I have personally seen. Such as how all sound fades out, and a slight 
 ringing takes over when mortars land nearby, reminiscent of the Omaha Beach landing scene in Saving 
 Private Ryan.
  
  Seen through three very different campaigns, you play as American and British soldiers, as well 
 as a Russian conscript. The Russian campaign will see you push the Germans back through Russia 
 itself, into Poland and on towards Germany. The Russian campaign is more brutal in it's depiction 
 of war, and incredibly, you initially begin without even a gun to defend yourself. The American 
 campaign will see you defending French villages, which are pivotal to your supply troops. The English 
 campaign will see you assaulting and defending major infrastructures, such as a dam, a hydroelectric 
 plant, a transport carrier, and bridges. Action deviates in several missions, with several car 
 chase levels, a defense against a bombing raid at a small french Airport, and even a wild ride 
 aboard a fully equipped Tank.
  
  The tagline on the cover box states that no Soldier fights alone, and this is true, with many of 
 your allied buddies providing support, ammunition and advice to get you through the most hardened 
 of situations. A scene that comes to mind early in the Russian campaign has you dodging machine 
 gunners behind pieces of building blown off and helping your allies do the same. This is how Call 
 of Duty differs from other titles. You don't feel superpowered in comparison with those who fight 
 along side you. You are just as susceptible to the death that is all around you.
  
  Deathmatch, Team Deathmatch, Search and Destroy, Behind Enemy Lines and Retrieval make up the five 
 modes of multiplayer available in Call of Duty. The first two are staples of shooters, so it is 
 the last three I played with the most, and they each provide a thrilling experience. Search and 
 Destroy tasks one team to seek and destroy an object the opposition will defend at all costs. Retrieval 
 forces you to steal documents. Behind Enemy Lines stacks the odds in one teams favour, giving them 
 more men but less firepower. While you can't choose a class specific character online, your weapons 
 choices will commit yourself to a certain play style anyway. You can change weapons between games, 
 as well.
  
  A nice touch is the smartly titled "kill cam" which shows the last 5 seconds of your death from 
 the enemy's perspective - which easily informs you whether they were cheating to get that kill. 
 It's a smart inclusion because it can be used to get rid of those who make play unfair by cheating. 
 There are a number of servers available, and even two years after it's release online play is widely 
 supported, backed by a large and helpful community. Frame rates don't drop, and play is smooth, 
 incredible considering just how much action can happen online. LAN play is also supported.
  
  Sound plays an important part in Call of Duty, with the main theme being the highlight. A moody 
 and sombre tune, it kicks into some excitable rock and percussion, and fits the theme brilliantly. 
 Voice acting is also consistently excellent, with enemies and allies speaking in their native tongue. 
 Voiceovers during mission briefings and scripted sections are also excellent, with their portayal 
 being convincing. The dialogue moves things along fast, and is well-thought out and delivered. 
 Ambient noise, such as distant gunshots, planes flying overhead, crackling fire and mortar shells 
 really delivers the aural experience of being in World War 2.
  
  While Call of Duty is graphically impressive, character animations are ocassionally clunky. This 
 is only really noticeable on your allies. though death animations are very well done. Environments 
 are as well-drawn as they are varied, from French coutrysides to Nazi P. O. W camps, and many things 
 between. Call of Duty triumphs in variety and believable atmosphere.
  
  Overall, Call of Duty is easily recommendable, as it challenges similar titles and does so well. 
 What it lacks in innovation it makes up for in atmosphere and design, bringing an incredible experience 
 to the PC. Not just for those who enjoyed titles like Battlefield 1942 and Medal of Honor: Allied 
 Assault, Call of Duty is an excellent all-round action title which should appeal to just about 
 anyone who is a gamer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Matthew_Kaeser
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 14, 2005 5:05 pm PT
Review:  I have never been one for WWII games, but am a huge FPS fan. So, for the hell of it, I decided 
 to download the CoD2 demo just to check it out and to my enjoyment, it actually is a very challenging 
 game even though the demo was very short. 
  
  Anyway, I decided to go to my local EB Games to purchase the original CoD with the EP, UO for 40 
 bucks. This game is spectacular in every aspect and puts all other FPSs to shame. This is the very 
 first FPS I've played which actually gave a challenge. Most others, the enemy comes at you from 
 the front, but with this, there are enemies lurking not ony in front of you, but in buildings to 
 the side as well as behind you. Much tactics are needed to survive instead of the usual gun and 
 run method I have grown accustomed to with other games of this genre.
  
  And don't get me started on the online multiplayer. OMG, is this fun. t makes Battlefield 2 look 
 like a walk in the park, which actually it is since players spend most of their time in BF2 roaming 
 the overly large maps just to find another living player. I strongly suggest everyone picks up 
 this game... You won't be disappointed.
  
  Hmm... Will I enjoy CoD2 as much? We will wait and see. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: terryprior
Rating: 9.4
Date: Dec 12, 2005 6:38 am PT
Review:  The real charm of Call of Duty is in it approach to the levels and their very cinematic approach. Whether 
 it's the orchestrated score that raises the tension at every possible moment of the fast paced 
 action that actually makes you value your life the game has the ability to whisk you away into 
 the story. Take the first level for example - you parachute in, take out a German in a house, meet 
 up with some of your mates and then proceed to take down houe by house filled with the bad guys. 
 Along the way you are ambushed, planes are crashing around you and in the distance other battles 
 ensue. The gameplay is your pro-typical WW 2 approach-making everything as real as possible. After 
 all the Medal of Honor series offers the same array of real guns to master and get your hands on. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: coolguy1111
Rating: 9.3
Date: Dec 9, 2005 6:31 pm PT
Review:  Call of Duty is a great first person shooter. Its single player is fun and isnt repeditive, unlike 
 most of the other world war 2 fps games out their. There is a variety of skill levels to chose 
 from, so its good for noobs and pros. The ability to aim down the site of your gun makes aiming 
 more fun and easier. The multiplayer is good, but it could be better. The lack of maps and guns, 
 can make the multiplayer get repeditive after a while. But, Call of Duty is a great over all game 
 and i suggest it to any fps fan. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SproketLoop
Rating: 9.2
Date: Dec 7, 2005 3:28 pm PT
Review:  (Please note that I am reviewing COD 1 after reviewing COD 2 but don't worry, I played both and 
 in the correct order so this review will be unbiased and no comparisions will be made to COD 2) . 
 Forgive me for being frank but COD is incredible. Before COD there was Metal of Honor and let's 
 not beat around the bush here, MOH got boring very quickly. When my friend showed me COD, I first 
 thought it was MOH and quickly abondonded it irationaly. After learning that it was indeed not 
 MOH, I tried it out and was blown away. I felt like a real soldier in the middle of a war thousends 
 of miles away from my home. The voice acting was great, the sounds of battle were great, the AI 
 was decent enough and unlike MOH, you actually need your squad to survive (how revolutionary) . 
 Also, the fact that you could play the different campaigns each with a very unique experience was 
 a huge bonus compared to MOH. The one bad point in this game was the multiplayer. It sucked compared 
 to DOD 1.6 because there were fewer maps, fewer weapons, and much harder and more boring than DOD 
 1.6. However, the graphics were nice and every aspect of the single player was executed very well. 
 But the main thing is that this game has surely set an incredibly high standard for all WW2 games 
 to come and will live on as a classic. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rogue108
Rating: 8.8
Date: Dec 5, 2005 12:15 pm PT
Review:  This is an excellent shooter and probably one of the best WWII shooters out there. The environments 
 are immersive and so is the sound. There is always something happening in the environment to make 
 you feel like your at war. The flying bodies, constants explosions, the distinctive sounds of weapons 
 fire. The battles between your side and the Germans make you feel like your a part of the action, 
 not a single solider mowing down the masses of enemies. The AI for NPC is fairly good. The enemies 
 try to take cover, throw grenades to flush you out, your squad advances under cover... etc. The 
 graphics on this game are excellent with all the eye-candy turned on. The character models are 
 fairly good as are the environements. All in all its an excellent fast paced shooter that is well 
 written, without being overly difficult or unrealistic. 
  
  There are few gripes, but not very many. The major complaint is the linearity of some missions. 
 It almost feels like you are being steered toward all your objectives and you have to destroy them 
 in order. The campaigns and the entire games is far too short. The small gripes are the campaigns 
 change without closure or cut scene, nothing. Your an American, then British, then Russian before 
 you know it. The differences between the weapons of the same are hard to descerne, with the exception 
 of ammo capacity or reload time. One submachine gun or rifle is no different than the other. Especially 
 on easier settings. Also it doesn't seem to matter where you shoot a person with the exception 
 of a head shot. The hand or a chest shot appear to have the same effect. 
  
  All in all this is an excellent game, A worth buy and a play. The multiplayer modes are excellent 
 as well. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pokobo
Rating: 9.4
Date: Dec 4, 2005 10:24 pm PT
Review:  i First picked out this game knowing that it was going to be awesome. It only cost me around 35 
 dollars australian which is really cheap. Upon purchasing this game i failed to look at the sytem 
 requirements, so when i got home, to my horror i couldnt play it. It was eating away at me, i think 
 i must have read through the manual twice and maybe drawn the dude on the box before i could get 
 it running on my new gpu. 
  
  Everything about this game is great. The weapons, the gameplay and the soundtrack is fantastic. 
 The single player campaign was short but sweet. It only took me about 5 or so hours to complete, 
 but those 5 hours were awesome. Some of the missions i thought were a bit too do it yourself. There 
 wasnt really a level where you could have 100 or so soldiers coming at you guns blazing, wich of 
 course was what i was hoping for. I also found some aspects of the gameplay a bit repetetive, but 
 it was still great.
  
  The multiplayer in the game was great fun when i first started it. But know there are a severe 
 lack of players and you can never seem to get into a game becuase all of the good servers are full, 
 hence you find yourself going one on one with someone and getting reeeeally bored. 
  
  the grapihcs were great since i had never played anything looking this good before, obviously now 
 there are much higher standards, but its still a nice looking game. Along with the great soundtrack, 
 although not heard too often, this game really is great. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chalker
Rating: 9.8
Date: Dec 4, 2005 6:22 pm PT
Review:  Call of duty for the pc is the first one of the series and I think it might be the best. WW11 has 
 never looked so good, especially with all the other WW11 shooters on the market, but this one is 
 a must get. The single player is intense and fun, you play as three different allies through out 
 the war, the americans, british, and russian. The game's graphics, great sound effects, and large, awesomely 
 detailed environments make it feel like you are actually fighting in the war in germany. The enemy 
 AI is also great, when they see you or you shoot at them they will go for cover, and they will also 
 throw grenades and furiously fight you hand to hand if you get too close. You will also fight alongside 
 many friends too, the game's slogan, nobody fights alone is definately true is this game. But when 
 you get done with the single player and think you have nothing else to do you can also play a fun 
 multiplayer option like playing online. The game's controls are weird and take a lot of getting 
 use to, and the three different campaigns could have maybe been a little bit longer, but this is 
 still a hands down great game that pc owners must get, no matter what kind of fan you are. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: woollon1
Rating: 9.7
Date: Dec 4, 2005 2:29 pm PT
Review:  Call of duty isnt the best war game out because the are fighting agianst Brothers in arms its going 
 to be a tough battle but i wounder whos going to win. people might think brothers in arms would 
 with the amazeing 9.8% , but then call of duty has 9.7%. But with Call of duty's new game out called 
 The big red one thats has a woppeing 9.9% , but Brothers in arms has their new game called Earnd 
 in blood but whos going to win the final???? but please enjot them both but call of duty has a 
 better multiplayer service, but brother in arms could have better single player modes but i thnk 
 brother in arms single player mode are rubbish because u seem to be all over the place. the best 
 one has to be the Call of duty. This is my review on call of duty down below. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: joeygrandmaster
Rating: 9.6
Date: Dec 4, 2005 12:16 pm PT
Review:  This game is so amazing. The multiplayer had be glued to my seat for hours on end non-stop playing 
 Call of Duty. I absolutely adore this game, and to this day I play it all the time. Probably the 
 reason why I like it so much is because no matter how many times I play it, there's always a challenge. 
 There's always something different that happens. There's always a new strategy to come up with. 
 
  
  
  
  
  This game is just pure bliss. I recommend it to ANY casual gamer and ANYONE who is the least bit 
 interested in it. You will not be let down, take my word for it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sbenfield
Rating: 8.2
Date: Dec 3, 2005 9:02 pm PT
Review:  For an older game -- this one is pretty damn good. Fast paced gameplay (mostly) , decent 2002/3 graphics, 
 and great sound. The sound, to me, really aids in the game. There are places where I thought I'd 
 go bonkers because of all the noise going on -- the bombs, the shooting, screaming. But then I 
 thought -- yea, this is how it probably was -- can you keep your cool during it?
  
  The AI of the soldiers could be better (applies to all games anyway) . But very enjoyable. Only 
 thing I wish I could have done in the game was fly a plane.
  
  I'm really looking forward to playing call of duty 2 with updated graphics.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: bog_god
Rating: 9.7
Date: Dec 1, 2005 8:12 am PT
Review:  Anyone who has played this game and not enjoyed has forgotten to turn on their computer/monitor/brain. 
 It doesn't fail to please on any front. The singleplayer is immersive and blissfully shooty. Theres 
 always another challenge around the corner, which you and your squad are ready to tackle. The squad 
 is one aspect which marks this game apart from other WW2 FPS games - the main contender being MoH. 
 Rather than feeling the game is hopelessly unrealistic in pitting you against hundreds of enemy 
 soldiers (which it is in CoD and MoH) , the squad makes you feel as if your not alone and of course 
 you can show those Germans how it's done. It means that if you die you dont feel like the game 
 is against you, you just blame yourself for missing a shot or sticking your head out. The graphics 
 may be aging by todays standards, but they are unimportant when you're fighting for your life, 
 especially when gunfire and shouted orders are ringing in your ears. 
  With such an amazing singleplayer game under their belts you might think developers Infinity Ward 
 would take a break on the multiplayer. Maybe produce a generic shooter multiplayer in the knowledge 
 that the singleplayer would make this game a hit singlehandedly, but they didn't. And I'm forever 
 in their debt for it! The multiplayer carries over the hectic shooting of the singleplayer, and 
 allows a lot of variety. The maps are varied and excellently designed, and the weapons are excellently 
 balanced (although the British arsenal seems slightly lacking - along with the number of maps on 
 which British are playable) . 
  I would never look back on buying this game, nor hesitate to recomend it to all gamers - FPS fans 
 or not. It is the best game I have ever played and I would defend it to the end. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Stan_Marsh22
Rating: 9.8
Date: Apr 29, 2006 3:04 pm PT
Review:  Call of Duty is one of the 10 ten greatest games ever made. No one I knew had it but when I bought 
 it and played it I was hooked. Battlefield:1942 is good but when you play Call of Duty you never 
 go back. The two features I loved the most was the zoom where you look down the barrel of your 
 weapon which is something I always wanted to do. The second thing was you could melee anyone with 
 anything. Gernade, rifle, sniper, and my favorite the pistol. Only down side to this game was no 
 real vechiles to control in multiplayer but with United Offence out theres no problems. I reccomend 
 you get it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Superbustacap
Rating: 9.4
Date: Mar 6, 2006 7:39 pm PT
Review:  If your PC is good enough to show off the true power of Call of Duty, you'll find it one of the 
 best shooters out there. I played this game first just for kicks on my friends decently upgraded 
 PC. Little did I know, I wouldn't be able to get away from it. It had many action packed levels, 
 each one different in it's own way. The graphics were stunning, everything being sharp and perfect, 
 despite the looks of a few allie's faces. The game sounds, looks, and feels like the best WWII 
 shooter avaliable. This is an older game that you can pick up for $20 and it's worth three times 
 that. And in my opinion, better than the sequal, Call of Duty 2. If you like shooters, you'll love 
 this. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: GrayfoxMGS123
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 30, 2005 4:21 pm PT
Review:  I played this game first just for kicks on my friends decently upgraded PC. Little did I know, 
 I wouldn't be able to get away from it. It had many action packed levels, each one different in 
 it's own way. The graphics were stunning, everything being sharp and perfect, despite the looks 
 of a few allie's faces. The game sounds, looks, and feels like the best WWII shooter avaliable. 
 This is an older game that you can pick up for $20 and it's worth three times that. And in my opinion, 
 better than the sequal, Call of Duty 2. If you like shooters, you'll like this. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ariel_king
Rating: 9.4
Date: Nov 30, 2005 4:54 am PT
Review:  I played this game and I was really happy.
  
  Gameplay: You play as a soldier and you go kick some butt in the WW2. The weapons are fantastic, 
 the areas are big and the players are unbelivible.
  
  Graphics: The graphics are probaly the best graphics in WW2 game. The players look unbelivible, 
 the areas are beautiful and the weapons look awsome.
  
  Sound: The weapons sound is beautiful, and the music is great. 
  
  Value: You can play for 
 like a day and then finish the game, the storyline is short but the online feature is beautiful 
 except for the little maps.
  
  Reviwer's tilt: Overall this game is an awsome WW2 game and you should definitely go and check 
 this one out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Doom1327
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 29, 2005 4:34 pm PT
Review:  Great game... just not as god as mohaa, and you know what? These two games are basically just like 
 one another in many ways, excepts the mohaa is way better. This game is good too. If you are looking 
 to get this game i say not and say yes to mohaa, which is about 5-10$ less than call of duty. REPEAT: 
 Great game... just not as god as mohaa, and you know what? These two games are basically just like 
 one another in many ways, excepts the mohaa is way better. This game is good too. If you are looking 
 to get this game i say not and say yes to mohaa, which is about 5-10$ less than call of duty. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: daJonesy7
Rating: 9.4
Date: Nov 29, 2005 3:45 pm PT
Review:  Call of Duty is a World War II themed First Person Shooter. BUT WAIT, don't stop reading because 
 you think you've played enough of them. This one is the best World War II themed shooter ever made. 
 Period.
  
  Be it either the action and intensity of the single player  (plural) 
 or the fast paced, fun-fest known as Call of Duty Multiplayer, this is a one-stop shop for World 
 War themed fun. 
  
  What will probably first catch your eyes are the graphics. Yes they are amazing. Everything from 
 the urban battlegrounds to the character animation and gun details, everything is rich and authentic. 
 Once you start to play the game, this feeling of awe and amazement is only halted due to the fight 
 for your life gameplay that runs throughout all of these beautiful locations. The attention to 
 detail that the developers have gone too is very impressive, the World as it was in 1945 is brought 
 to life here in such a way, that often when playing the game you just buy this game for what it 
 is. There is no "story" as such in this game, but you don't care about this, because no matter 
 what situation you find yourself in, you believe you are really there. This is caused by the great 
 harmony between the graphics, the sound and the gameplay which go together like a Beethoven symphony. 
 
  
  This is not praise that I give out lightly. If you have played any World War II themed shooter 
 (and let's be honest, 95% of PC Gamers have) , then whatever game it was, it was not as good as 
 this game. If you had to play one last shooter of this kind in your lifetime, you could not make 
 a better choice than to make it this game. It is that Good!!!
  
  The single player portion of the game throws three different campaigns at you. These are not directly 
 related to each other in any particular way, except for the fact that they all took place around 
 the same time period, around the globe. The three campaigns vary dramatically, which keeps the 
 game fresh and exciting. Each campaign definitely has it's own distinct feel and each contain some 
 awesome and varied set pieces. 
  This means however that to some players this game will feel disjointed. More of an arcade experience 
 than an immersive insight into the actions of a World War II soldier. I on the other hand, am not 
 one of those people. I appreciate this game for what it wants the player to experience and it does 
 it in the most realistic and believable way. One particular soldier would never experienced all 
 the battles the player experiences in this game. The developers wanted the player to experience 
 as much action and variety of situations as possible, and this could not have been done using the 
 "story" campaign approach. Anyone with any knowledge of the history of the war would know that 
 for one single soldier to experience all of this would be totally unbelievable. 
  The story is simply dealt out during the loading screens of the levels, in the form of a note from 
 a higher ranked officer, detailing your mission. 
  
  The gameplay itself is most likely going to be similar to many shooters you've played before. There 
 is the variety between close indoor corridor style run and gun action, defending positions against 
 enemy onslaughts and all out firefights. What makes this game different, is the way it presents 
 all of these elements to the player in an immersive and authentic package. 
  
  The multiplayer is fast paced and extremely good fun. I've enjoyed many hours online with this 
 game with hardly any issues to report. The game plays smoothly, with hardly any lag issues (this 
 may vary depending on your internet connection) . There are your usual game types, deathmatch, defend 
 your base whilst attacking the enemies etc. There isn't really anything original in the approach 
 to multiplayer gaming here, what makes it stand out however is that it is all the multiplayer modes 
 you know and love, with all the frantic action of Call of Duty. This is a dream combination. 
 
  
  Most seasoned shooter fans will run through the single player campaign in around 10-12 hours and 
 anyone with an understanding of action games will cross the finish line shortly afterwards. Fortunately 
 the games multiplayer offerings are good enough to keep players coming back for more, long after 
 they have survived the great war. 
  
  Overall, this game is simply great in every way. In a genre were most gamers, believed they had 
 seen it all, this is a BIG breathe of fresh air. This game is so good, it should be used as a bench 
 mark for all other World War II shooters, or even all shooters in general, which are released from 
 now on. Go forth and experience. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ric-meech
Rating: 9.6
Date: Nov 29, 2005 11:16 am PT
Review:  Call Of Duty is great! easy to understand, I've played Medal Of Honnor, that game sucks! I didnt 
 had any ideas what I was supposed to do. it was difficult. What I like about Call Of Duty is that 
 you dont need to be a extrem shooter to play that game. you learn fast, and you have a trainning 
 a the beginning of the game. The environments are realistics, Well Actualy... Everything is realistic. 
 That game makes a dependance, you could play for hours and hours. This game is worthing the price 
 at your local gamming store and the time you spend on it. I've just started to play Call Of Duty, 
 and I cant wait to play the 2nd one, which I probably gonna buy it with my Xbox 360 system in couple 
 months. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Spyderfan1212
Rating: 9.1
Date: Nov 28, 2005 6:26 pm PT
Review:  I got CoD becasue of the reviews and friends telling me how great it is and i did. The minute i 
 popped it in, i was so just surprised how intense just firing a weapons in the game really is. 
 This game just really blew me away.
  
  Single: Unfortunely the best parts in the sinlge seem to be the first missions of D-Day due to 
 a more feeling of sqaud combat, and you'll most likely enjoy the American campaign more. The british 
 campaign seem to lag behind the American and Russian it jsut wans't as compelling or as interesting. 
 The russian campaign is very fun, Stalingrad is EXTREMELY intense. this game will take you prolly 
 around10 - 12 hours to complete and you'll enjoy ever second of it.
  
  Multiplayer: Here is where you hours start to really add up. The multiplayer is INTENSE as crap. 
 You'll here mg42's gunnin down people, Thompsons gunning off their 30 round clip and you always 
 checking you back to make sure no one is folllowing you. The map desing is pretty good and it really 
 is amazing how much fun you will have in this section.
  
  This is a well done game that u should pick up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Psychlopesis
Rating: 9.2
Date: Nov 28, 2005 10:05 am PT
Review:  In my opinion, this game is right next to Half-Life 2 in how amazing the gaming experience is. 
 This game makes you feel like you are experiencing a war first hand. 
  
  On the keyboard, this game controls like a dream. The only way they could be better would be if 
 you dressed up in military garb and did a WWII recreation with your buddies. This is how every 
 FPS should control. 
  
  Graphics, on a good card, look amazing. The detail that on character models are more simple that 
 most of the current generations but they still look very good, even for this time.
  
  Gameplay is flawless. There are moments of "shock and awe", intense action and emotional moments 
 that tug at the heart strings. Sure, it's not as open-ended as Brothers In Arms is. However, this 
 is not what the game was trying to achive. This game wanted to recreate a WWII movie. This is what 
 they did... Perfectly.
  
  Quite simply, any person that enjoys an intense and immersive gaming experience should check Call 
 of Duty out. You won't regret it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: viper_najem
Rating: 8.8
Date: Nov 28, 2005 5:14 am PT
Review:  It seems these days that World War Two shooters are hit or miss. Some hits would be Brothers In 
 Arms: Road To Hill 30, Medal of Honor: Allied Assault, and the original Medal of Honor games. Some 
 misses would be Medal of Honor: Frontline and Call of Duty: Final Hour. So basically what can be 
 said here is that is a game is gonna go from the PC to the consoles, that they should emulate it 
 perfectly for fail. Call of Duty is definitely a hit in the world of many World War Two games. 
 
  
  Call of Duty, does something that no other World War Two shooter has done, and that is show the 
 battles from all sides of the Allied front. Yes in this game you take control of the American's, 
 the British, and the Russians, and this game does it well. The console version the Russian levels, 
 were strictly tank driving, the British were mounted guns, and the American's missions were the 
 on foot stuff. This game mixes all that good stuff into one. This game captures the fun and thrills 
 that all World War Two game should have, the most exciting though are the Russian missions. From 
 taking back Stalingrad, to driving tanks, to the final mission, capturing and flying the Russian 
 flag over the Reichstag in Berlin. This is very fun. 
  
  Graphically, this game looked good at its time. Sadly now it looks like any old first person shooter 
 that came out a year or two ago. This game was pretty graphically enhanced though when it came 
 out so it gets credit points for that part. Even though now-a-days, with games like Half Life 2, 
 Far Cry, and Doom 3, Call of Duty can just be looked at as a shooter that did everything right 
 for it's time. 
  
  This game sounds great. The mortar fire, the voice acting (the guy from the Transporter is in the 
 British missions) , and everything else sounds great. Honestly nothing is more intense than when 
 a mortar shell hits nearby you and you go into a dizzy state, and the background noises and the 
 ringing of your ears sounds great. The background music is beautifully composed, and they really 
 make you feel like you did something great. Almost something to be proud of. This game sounds beautiful, 
 and really that is all the needs to be said. 
  
  This game controls like any other first person shooter on the PC market. This is not a bad thing 
 however, but if you have gotten use to using the E key for and action button, its F this time (this 
 really confused me for a while) . Other than that this game plays and controls just fine, just like 
 every other part of this game. This game only lets you carry a few weapons, but hey they are trying 
 to make it realistic, so good for them. No complaints here. 
  
  This game has replay value like there is no tomorrow. You can go through and play your favorite 
 levels, favorite campaigns (the Russian missions would have to be my favorite) , or you can just 
 play the whole game through again, because I know that there is a good chance that you will. The 
 multi-player is legendary though. There are so many different game modes, so many cool features, 
 that you will want to keep playing this game online way after you complete the single player experience. 
 The kill-cam is complete genius in my opinion. The fact that you can see your killers last twenty 
 some seconds before they pulled the trigger, and you can see what angle they got you from, and 
 where they were in relation to where you were. 
  
  So yes this game has it all. It has the new fact that you can play as all sides of the allied force, 
 it has fun tank driving missions, and awesome multi-player. If you were like me and you played 
 the console version before you played this, Call of Duty is not a bad game at all, it is just the 
 console version that is not any good, but this game is definitely worth your money. This game is 
 defiantly a hit, and you should really pick this game up, because even if you do not get into the 
 multi-player stuff, the single player will blow you away. That is why I give this game a 10/10. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xu3y4ngm1n
Rating: 9.2
Date: Nov 27, 2005 10:50 pm PT
Review:  I really don't understand why some people called this game lame, because it's not. I played it 
 on the hardest difficulty which is "Veteran" (no MedPack, more "Killing" enemy AI literally, make 
 a little mistake and you'll be friendly with worms in the ground) and found it to be very enjoyable.
 
  And this game's Graphical - Sound quality versus performance comparison is not bad at all, it's 
 very good actually. Some newer First Person Shooter games got worser Graphical - Sound quality 
 not to mention AI but give higher performance hit.
  Suprisingly many people still are playing this game MultiPlayer on the Net up to this time.
  
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: manchild99
Rating: 9.4
Date: Nov 27, 2005 1:11 pm PT
Review:  When i picked up Call of Duty I had read some reviews saying that it was pretty good. This game 
 is not pretty good, it is one of the best ever made. In this game the developers chose to show 
 you many scripted sequences, rather than have a non scripted player driven experiance. Personally 
 i am in favor of a heavily scripted game. If the game delivers as many exciting, pulse pounding 
 moments as Call of Duty, than thats great. Although i do like a more free gameplay in rpgs, and 
 adventure titles. I think that scripted gameplay is the way to go with shooters.
  Ok first the graphics. I gave then a 8/10, because they are a good bit behind some of the games 
 that came out at that time. Actually i read somewhere that Call of Duty used a modified Quake 3 
 engine, which is not bad, but the graphics could have been much much better. They are not awful, 
 when turned up to full settings, but graphics are one of the first things i look for in a game, 
 and Call of Duty didn't have the greatest graphics. 
  Call of Duty might not have the best graphics, but i think that it doea have the best sound. Everything 
 from the guns firing, to the bombs dropping all around you sound so real. The developers really 
 went the extra mile, recording all the gun sounds from real guns!! When hooked up to a great sound 
 card, and awesome 7.1 speakers, this game will blow you away. I really thought i was there, especially 
 in the first levels of the Russian campaign, where you are taking back stalingrad. Landing on the 
 beach infront of the city, and having German machine guns shooting at you, and German mortars bombing 
 you is an awesome experiance.
  The actual game itself is fabulous, but way to short. It is divided up into three campaigns : Russian, 
 British, and American. Each campaign consists of 7 to 8 levels, and then each gets one more mission 
 at the end. The game starts out with you taking a training course, and learning to shoot (please 
 do they have to enclude a learn how to click the mouse at the Nazi part in every WW2 game!) your 
 rifle before deploying for D-Day. The level after in which you storm a town during the night, grabs 
 hold of you, and the game doesnt let go until you see the credits role. 
  Overll this is one of my favorite games of all time, and the best WW2 shooter ever made. Well i 
 think that untill i get to play Call of Duty 2 :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rokkuman09
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jun 23, 2006 10:49 am PT
Review:  Gameplay:
  The gameplay of Call of Duty is faced paced and intense. The battles can grow quite large with 
 all of your allies and enimies running around. All the weapons are very authentic to WWII and fun 
 to use. This game is more realistic than say Medal of Honor or any of those other WWII first person 
 shooters. During the course of the game you will fight as a Russian, American, and British soldier 
 because of this you get to fight in many diffrent situations such as one time when you get to drive 
 a tank or another where your shooting planes down with a gun on the ground.
  
  Graphics:
  The graphics for this game can be much diffrent depending on the PC you are playing it on. But 
 if your computer can support the games settings to be all the way up (like mine) then the game 
 looks much better than most. One thing you will notice during the course of the game is the outstanding 
 smoke and explosion effects they are some of the best I have ever seen in a video game.
  
  Sound:
  The sound in Call of Duty is one of its best aspects. All the guns sound powerful and 
 how they should, and voicework is top notch. The battles can be very intese because of this sound 
 too, there will be many times when you will hear your soldiers saying things and bullets flying 
 by you and artillery firing all at one time and it sounds crazy and just chaoctic which it should 
 it is the middle of WWII.
  
  Value:
  While the single player game isnt that long there is a lot of value to be found in the multiplayer 
 which is very fun.
  
  and the final score is a 9.2! 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: chickensqueeks
Rating: 9.1
Date: Nov 26, 2005 1:56 am PT
Review:  wow easiest way to describe cod? like medal of honor but better. graphics? really good. soundtrack 
 very impresive and the game overall has a cinematic felling to it. mp offers many hours of fun 
 while the sp overs a top of the market campaign unlike other ww2 titles you have sd which is kinda 
 like cs were allies plant the bomb and axis try to defuse it. dm which is an all out war. tdm is 
 allies verus the axis and many more that have been added on over the years. in sp you play as the 
 americans and the russians and the brits. fav campain? has to be the russian campain which has 
 an amazing opening as you cross the river to stalingrad to the end were you capture berlin from 
 the nazis. bottom line? worth ever pennie. this title is still popular after 2 years of being on 
 the market 
::::::

::::::
UserName: johnha778
Rating: 9.1
Date: Nov 25, 2005 7:00 pm PT
Review:  Call of duty is one of the best games I've ever played. From a gameplay standpoint this game is 
 solid. The weapon effects are awesome and the reload animations are strong and satifying. The levels 
 are also huge and you'll often find yourself just immersed into the experience so deeply that you 
 just forget all else that is going on. 
  
  People say that the graphics are dated, but it still looks quite nice. Sure it isn't the caliber 
 of Far Cry, Half life 2, or FEAR, but the weapon effects, the huge levels, grenade effects, and 
 particles are all very well done. The death animations are a pretty good in my opinion (except 
 when they fall off rails; crazy) because they are the type of death animations we want to see. 
 the engine is also capable of putting a huge number of people on screen fighting eachother. On 
 the russian campaign I saw at least 50 russians getting ripped apart with MG42's. It's a sight 
 to behold.
  
  Sound is one of the best aspects of this game. Many people say the music is the best about this 
 game but I disagree. The music, while nice, is often muted my heavy gunfire. However, there is 
 nothing wrong with that since Call of duty has some of the best sounding weapons and reload sounds. 
 
  
  The value is pretty good too. The campaign in word sounds short, but it's more like Max payne in 
 that you'll feel like you've experienced quite alot. Don't be afraid to get this game because of 
 its length. Also the multiplayer is whole lot of fun.
  
  Overall Call of duty was just another great experience for me. If you love great weapon sounds 
 and animations and pitched battles with 50 people on screen shooting eachother this is your game. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Pleaz88
Rating: 9.6
Date: Nov 25, 2005 5:46 pm PT
Review:  WOOT WOOT Big red one getting her done!
  i beleAVE call of duty should be known as best war game of its time .......... i have never played 
 a game that finaly capture's Rool outs what i mean bye this is.. u finaly can just run, duck, and 
 hide shppt what ever the **** u wont... and just go insain and kill verything.. or u chould be tacticle... or 
 all out melee's attacks any thing.. {And now we get to how ****ing sweet the online play is... i 
 mean i have only got to experince it once or twice but let me tell u also should be known as best 
 massivly multiplayer game of the year! 
  
  *_* *_* sin my eyes this game i whould give an 10.1 outta 10 lol! PLAY IT UPP! MUST BUY!.. Ok I 
 HAVE TO ADD THIS GAME KICKS SO MUCHHH ASSSSSSSSSSS.... also beleave MUST ADD MULTIPLAYER CALL OF 
 DUTY DEMO SO GAMERS CAN EXPERIENCE CALL OF DUTYS GRATEST SIDE!!!!!!!!!!!!! *_* 
::::::

::::::
UserName: diope_agresija
Rating: 9.3
Date: Nov 25, 2005 5:12 am PT
Review:  And you thought that Medal of Honor is everything we got? Not anymore. Call of Duty has come (which 
 made the same team that made first Medal of Honors on PlayStation) and has many goods. I can count 
 some of them : GAMEPLAY, SOUND, GRAPHIC, REPLAY VALUE AND MULTIPLAYER!
  These 5 words are enough to understand total value of this game which is splendid in every aspect 
 and you'll enjoy every moment while playing it. Definitely worth buying. You feel like you are 
 just on the battlefield fighting all these Germans, but you can't die and you can enjoy all moments. 
 Pure gold. Great job! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jonzilla_basic
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 22, 2005 9:18 pm PT
Review:  I loved this game from the start to the finish. The only thing was i didnt really follow the story 
 being switched from one nation to another. But i was cought up in the gameplay anyways so it really 
 didnt matter. It is loud and furious. The fact that you have your guys with you and fighting beside 
 you is awesome.
  
  Gameplay: The gameplay is a 10. Its so fantastic
  Sound: a 10. Loud and so hard to think. get down and shoot
  Graphics: fantastic thats a 10 as 
 well
  
  - I have to give this game a 10. I have played all the medal of honour games and even though they 
 are great Call of duty takes the cake.
  
  Part 2 is so awesome as well
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: pcgamer525
Rating: 9.4
Date: Nov 21, 2005 4:04 pm PT
Review:  I borrowed CoD from a friend after downloading and playing the demos and I have to say it was the 
 best FPS I've played in a while. I like how you are actually in a squad instead of a lone wolf 
 like most other FPS. It feels better knowing that you don't have to handle everything yourself. 
 The game is very realistic for its time, but is a little short. And I don't like playing as the 
 British or Russia as much because for most of the time you are on your own and somehow you manage 
 to take out 20 enemy troops on your own. It gets kinda old there and limits itself back down to 
 other FPS where 3-4 guys r standing in the open shooting at you and you just pick em off 1 by 1. 
 The tanks r pretty cool tho... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FUBAR24
Rating: 9.3
Date: Nov 20, 2005 10:36 am PT
Review:  I have played pretty much every World War 2 game out there. Everything from Medal of Honor to Battlefield 
 1942 to Brothers In Arms and while they each have their specialties I just can't stop playing Call 
 of Duty. Sure it doesnt have the co-op of Brothers in Arms or the Massive Multiplayer battles of 
 BF1942 but it does have its moments. Fist of all let me get this out that the graphics arn't the 
 best out their but remember this is a game that came out in 2003 so its not exactly up-to-date 
 but they are pretty good for the time that the game was made in. The explosions and particle effects 
 are amazing for the time they were created. Now the single player in awsome. It Consists of 3 campains 
 American, British, and Russian and all three of them are amazing. It really puts you into the boots 
 of these soldiers and you really don't want to step out of them untill you have completed on of 
 the campains. The only downside is that if you get stuck on a mission you cant skip to another 
 mission in a different campain. The learning curve is fairly short so you dont need to spend alot 
 of time learning how to play the game. The tutorial level will teach you everything you need to 
 know. The sounds are very realistic everything from the M-1 Garand to the Bren to the PPsh sounds 
 just like their real world counter parts. The Multiplayer is really where its at too. With all 
 the mods that they have for it and the custom maps its an awsome thing to experience. If you are 
 really into World War 2 shooters then this game is essential to your collection. I think im gonna 
 go play it right now 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Netjack
Rating: 6.3
Date: Nov 20, 2005 9:34 am PT
Review:  With a good update to the Quake 3 engine, and a very focused effort on gameplay, this game is a 
 must have for your collection. The sound is an intregal part of the experience. What I like in 
 the single player is the fact you really have to play. I mean, keep your wits about you. The fact 
 that you can die from any direction, any moment, from anything is what real combat was like (yes 
 I'm an old fart) . The AI on both side make you totally forget it's a computer. 
  For the multiplayer, it's just the right combination of damage. Not Rouge Spear/Rainbow one shot 
 kill, but you're not a superman either. Then there the "kill cam", veiwing your death through the 
 eyes of the reaper taking place 5 sec. before your death. Others may have thought of the concept, 
 but Infinity gets the credit for putting it to use. Love it!
  
  Maps in both Single and Multi are good. Single is somewhat linear, but make use of the a lot of 
 direction. Multi-maps, from what I've seen are large, and provide good flow of action.
  
  Last but not least, almost bug free on release. I did have the sound issue on multi mode using 
 EAX, as the ReadMe File warned. But no crashes or glitches.
  
  Thanks Infinity and Activision. A WWII action game that hits the mark right between the eyes! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chickenlover900
Rating: 9.3
Date: Nov 19, 2005 1:48 pm PT
Review:  kool kool kool kool kool kool kool kool kool kool kool kool kool kool kool kool kool koolkool kool 
 kool kool kool kool kool kool kool kool kool kool kool kool kool kool kool koolkool kool kool kool 
 kool kool kool kool kool kool kool kool kool kool kool kool kool koolkool kool kool kool kool kool 
 kool kool kool kool kool kool kool kool kool kool kokool kool kool kool kool kool kool kool kool 
 kool kool kool kool kool kool kool kool koolkool kool kool kool kool kool kool kool kool kool kool 
 kool kool kool kool kool kool koolkool kool kool kool kool kool kool kool kool kool kool kool kool 
 kool kool kool kool koolkool kool kool kool kool kool kool kool kool kool kool kool kool kool kool 
 kool kool koolol koolkool kool kool kool kool kool kool kool kool kool kool kool kool kool kool 
 kool kool koolkool kool kool kool kool kool kool kool kool kool kool kool kool kool kool kool kool 
 koolkool kool kool kool kool kool kool kool kool kool kool kool kool kool kool kool kool koolkool 
 kool kool kool kool kool kool kool kool kool kool kool kool kool kool kool kool kool 
::::::

::::::
UserName: oamorap
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 19, 2005 8:36 am PT
Review:  Efectivamente, aunque me tarde un poco en conocerlo y ese placer se lo debo agradecer a un amigo, 
 Call of Duty en mi concepto fue el mejor juego que salio con la tematica de la Segunda Guerra Mundial 
 hasta el 2003. 
  
  Excelentes grficos, accin a toda hora, argumento inmersivo, y bala, mucha bala!!!. Se diferencia 
 de otros juegos del mismo tipo como Medal Of Honor, en que aca no es un solo soldado a salvar el 
 mundo sino que en muchas misiones, se recibe la ayuda de los compaeros de escuadra.
  
  Ademas participas en el juego como un soldado de 3 de los ejercitos aliados: EEUU, Inglaterra y 
 Rusia, dandote la sensacin de estar colaborando de diferente forma en el desarrollo del juego.
 
  
  Como dije en la introduccin, simplemente perfecto, no tiene lado malo, que no falte en la juegoteca 
 de nadie.
  
  oamorap
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: buckwheat12n
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 18, 2005 5:44 am PT
Review:  Great game except for the fact that it can be finished in 5 hours or less. Fortunately I didn't 
 pay that much for the game, I would have been upset otherwise. The gameplay itself is great. Some 
 of the missions can be extremely fun like Stalingrad and any of the missions where you have to 
 defend German counter-attack. I thought throwing in a few missions where you where riding around 
 in vehicles whether it be tank or truck was a nice change as well.
  
  The multiplayer isn't very good in my opinion. It definately doesn't make up for how short the 
 game is. Too me, It's not the type of game where you can get on a server and just play on and on 
 and not get bored with it. In my opinion Day of Defeat and Medal of Honor are far better as far 
 as a multiplayer gamea go.
  
  Overall it's definately worth buying for under $20 bucks, but I wouldn't pay any more for it. Not 
 that the game play isn't worth more, but it is just too short of a game to spend any more than 
 that and not feel robbed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gaggle64
Rating: 8.3
Date: Nov 16, 2005 7:57 am PT
Review:  War is a funny old business. One moment you're charging heroically through the enemy fire, the 
 next thing you know you've fallen head first into a pile of goo that was your best friends face. 
 A quick glance at your mini-map, the you'll know what to do. Welcome to Call of Duty. 
  
  As a war game, Call of Duty is, prehaps thankfully, not an entirely accurate protrayal of the survival 
 of WW2 by three individuals from each of the different allied armies (a US grunt, British paratrooper 
 and a Russian Conscript) . To suggest this game gives an accurate portrayal of life in the field 
 would be to also suggest that approximately 90% of all German casualties was caused by less then 
 1% of all Allied forces. The amount of German infantry, assorted tanks, planes, motorbikes and 
 gun emplacemets you get to personally mow down, blow up, run over, capture and blast through simply 
 beggars belief. By the end of the third level you'll feel like you've shot up every German they 
 dared station in France. 
  
  The realism that COD offers then, is much more of the cinematic, Hollywood propaganda variety. 
 Guns, explosions, and lots and lots of dead guys as result. You get the picture...
  
  The levels are exciting and varied. In the opening levels you play as brave US marine sent to clear 
 the fields of Normandy. It opens quietly with you sneaking around a French farm house. Suddenly, 
 all hell brakes lose, and it pretty much stays like that for the rest of the game. If it were not 
 for the loading screens you would never be more then a few seconds away from another spectacular 
 set-piece skirmish, mortar explosion or wild fire fight. As you go on it only get's better. The 
 British paratrooper levels being my personal fvaourites as you get sent far behind enemy lines 
 to secure a brudge for D-day. Que intense and prolonged defense aginst impossible odds. The Russian 
 levels, on the other hand, are something else all together. Dumped straight into the middle of 
 besieged Stalingrad without even a rifle, it's up to you to help clear the city of the facists. 
 Que lots an lots of taking part in desperate rushes against German emplacements. Truly cinematic, 
 utterly fantastic. 
  
  So it's a great war experience, but unfortunetly this tempered by some frustrating gameplay. The 
 levels are mostly well designed and the player always has at least a fighting chance, but there 
 will be times when war reveals itself as the cruel, unfair mistress it is. I lost count of the 
 number of times I was seconds away from completeing a vital objective, or making it to the next 
 checkpoint only to be blown away by a stray grenade or German bullet. Enemy placement can also 
 be cruel, placing riflemen on ledges and rooftops where ypu simply can't get to them. You can save 
 manually whenever you want, but you just can't help feeling a bit cheap and ruins the flow of the 
 game. 
  
  Also, despite containing some spectacular set pieces, there are some sections of COD which are, 
 frankly, boring. One level, for example, started with an exciting storming of a dam top, only to 
 degenerate into a long and tedious battle through samey corridor after samey corridor. Why couldn't 
 the game designers simply have given us some more of the great open battle sequences that make 
 this game so great? Luckily there are only a handful of sections like this, and are usually sandwhiched 
 in between some of the best gaming action ever. 
  
  As far as great War-games experiences go, COD is a real gem. Not a perfect one, but persist, and 
 you will be greatly rewarded. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: DragonKiller17
Rating: 8.9
Date: Nov 13, 2005 3:40 pm PT
Review:  I don't believe that call of duty is such an awesome game on all perspectives, its kinda a let 
 down in a way. When i heard of call of duty, the media and everyone was saying, the 'most intense' 
 war game 'ever'. Some battles in the campaigns might be that, but not all of them.
  
  First of all the gameplay was excellent, and awesome in a way. Second, the graphics were incredible 
 at the time it came out. Third, the music really made the atmosphere more intense, and the sound 
 effects were really incredible too. 
  
  The let down of the game is that once you finish the single-player campaign, you wouldn't want 
 to play it again, except for the battles that you like. Second, is that you can't start playing 
 as the british, or the Russian, and that you have to beat the American, then the British, then 
 the Russian. No choice at all.
  
  Another let down is that you can't jump into vehicles around you, like battlefield 1942, and that 
 you can only drive vehicles unless you have to. 
  
  The one amusing thing about the campaign was the car chases. That was probably the peak of the 
 game to me. Also, I despised the British campaign, as it was starting to get to the end of it. 
 It was not intense at all, and was only frustrating. 
  
  Other than a few other problems, Call of Duty is quite a good game. But, don't be disappointed 
 with it, because its better than lots of other war games out there. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: colinjennison
Rating: 8.8
Date: Nov 13, 2005 11:34 am PT
Review:  The singleplayer mode in this game was incredible! The campaign was intense, challenging, and totally 
 engrossing. On top of that it was believable, historically accurate and educational! Hands down, 
 this is one of the greatest single-player experiences I have yet to have and I am by no means a 
 WW II shooter person, I prefer sci-fi to be honest. The best level by far in this game was the 
 level where the russians are fighting the germans off from Stalingrad. It was AMAZING! You really 
 felt scared and intimidated and the game really gave you an idea what it was like being one of 
 the many that were slaughtered that day. It was also a sad reminder of what a tragedy WWII was, 
 which is well that they were able to portray that, as it shoudlnt' be all fun and games when dealing 
 with such a serious subject. Anyhow, hands down the best single-player experience you'll find for 
 the WW II genre. MOH: Allied assault gets a clost second, but doesn't match this.
  
  The multiplayer offers some replayability but a game like this with authentic and not very interesting 
 weapons don't offer much for multiplayer fun. With games/series like Halo and BF1942 out there, 
 I don't see why such a simplistic version of FPS multiplayer will have as lasting value as the 
 ones I just mentioned, unless you're a WW II nut.
  
  This game can be tough on the regular difficulty, but it perfectly emphasizes how dangerous those 
 machine guns were lol 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BMBBDHbrandon
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 13, 2005 11:15 am PT
Review:  I Think this game has a outstanding line of game-play. Only thing is no jeeps or nuthen that u can 
 use with partners that would make my rating go from a 10 out of 10 to a 100 out of ten. I also 
 would have liked it more if i could use my microphone. I like it though u definetly convinced me 
 to buy the seconed one i just hope it lives up to my expectatshions. O and one more thing can someone 
 make some more maps for this gamei think that would make it more exciting to play insteasd of regular 
 ones.:) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BurntAndyMonkey
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 12, 2005 7:40 pm PT
Review:  Oh, man... this game is off the heezy! The first stagee, iits like a mass attack. YOu get mass 
 reinforcements and rush to a building. Allies die as fast as the enemies Do! IN regular ww2 games, 
 you have like 3 allies and they hardly die! THis is totally realistic and the grphics are awesome! 
 i really love this game, i cant wait to play the expansion and call of duty 2! Im like addicted 
 to this game! Its kind of hard though, when they shoot machine guns at you, your gun and crosshair 
 shakes up like 2 inches up! ANd it gets all shaky shaky. Well, overall, this game rocks! Absolutely 
 buy this! Well, its old game, so... whatever... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: arrowhead927
Rating: 8.8
Date: Nov 12, 2005 11:42 am PT
Review:  The best world war 2 shooter including an exccelent single player with a great multiplayer, some 
 good grahic excelent gameplay. It beats bf: 1942 that only contains a good multiplayer game with 
 no single player. It has a good range of weapons and vehicles. Hardly any bugs. a good game overall. 
 There no better world war 2 shooter then this game, people will be still playing it in years to 
 come. One things that could improve it which was put into call of duty is that in cod1 there is 
 only a certain route e. g. in the first missions if you dont go the exact way you get hit by srapnal 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gogoplexiorayo
Rating: 8.1
Date: Nov 11, 2005 12:47 am PT
Review:  Call of duty is a fun action packed game that lacks multiplayer read everything down here.
  
  
  Call of duty is another WW2 game but its just not another WW2 game its a good WW2 game. 
 You can play through the american campaign. The english one. And then the russian one. The first 
 campaign is easy but then it gets harder and harder as you progress this is a very good thing. 
 There are also plenty of weapons in this game. This game will keep your busy for 20 too 40 hours. 
 (i used about 30.)
  
  The Ai in this game is pretty good the will hide everywhere. So you need too be smart. The weapons 
 are good too use in call of duty too. Its fun too shoot tanks too and there are plenty of action 
 all the time.
  
  The graphics are pretty good. The weapons looks pretty good. The characther faces looks very good. 
 And the graphics are one of the best youll find in 2003/ 2004 not now now they only deserve 8. 
 
  
  The sound on the weapons are great blowing things up hearing germans scream and give orders sounds 
 good. Youll almost get your hearing blowed up.
  
  The multiplayer here is bad. Its lag on almost every server there are like 400 ping. That is sick. 
 I can run F. E. A. R smootly so why isnt this game doing this on multi hmmm. 
  
  You get alot of your money here 20- 40 hours cool singleplayer. The only problem when your finsihed 
 you wont get much of a multiplayer. And there are not alot of players. 
  
  Lasting appeal: Good singleplayer the sound is great and everything are good. just good. But when 
 finsihed you should stay away from the multiplayer its fun sometimes but laggy that really meses 
 up the thing. 8,1 GREAT. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: npg123456789
Rating: 9.6
Date: Nov 9, 2005 6:31 am PT
Review:  Simply put, it's an amazing game. Multiplayer maps and game modes are addicting. It keeps you going 
 because you want to become great at each level and game type. I know CoD 2 just came out but I 
 highly suggest you get CoD 1 first. Guns are excellent. I love playing this game and using different 
 guns all the time! It's fantastic! I would have to say I enjoy the powerful auto-guns. The BAR, 
 MP44, and Bren LMG are my favourite. They're accurate, fast and powerful; the perfect combo. My 
 favourite maps would have to be Carentan, Depot, Chateau, Bocage, and Hurtgen. I still enjoy playing 
 all the other maps, I'm just good in these maps. All I can say is get it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Worf101
Rating: 8.2
Date: Nov 8, 2005 8:26 am PT
Review:  I really really liked this game. I loved hte excellent presentation, the stirring soundtrack and 
 the wonderful sense of tone achieved in this FPS. I'm not an ultra experienced FPSer but I really 
 enjoyed this game and have played it multiple times since I installed it. 
  
  Installation and Setup: This as a snap and a breeze. No issures running XP Pro and Service Pack 
 2. I was easily able to patch up to the latest version and have never had the game crash out or 
 freeze on me. 
  
  Visuals: Despite being an older iteration of the Quake III engine I found this game good to look 
 at. I hate the blocky jerky running style forced on soldiers in this sim but I recognize the limits 
 of technology. Nice draw down distance for weapons and you really see war in it's misery, the mud 
 and the blood. COD 2 will have to ratchet up the visuals on this games next iteration as I can't 
 see gamers putting up with these visuals another time.
  
  Sound: Sound is adequate in this game. I didn't feel it was directional enough for me to tell where 
 fire was coming from. You will get a LOT of sound thrown at you during firefights and with the 
 right or wrong speakers you can find yourself almost deafened by the bombs and artillery. Good 
 but not great. 
  
  Gameplay: Single player game play really shines in this game. The weapons feel right and you're 
 given enough of them to do the job. If you run out of ammo there are plenty of enemy weapons to 
 play with. The game is heavily scripted however and it offers little replay value as opposed to 
 a game like "Far Cry". There's only one way to do a thing and it must be done or you cannot win 
 or advance. I particularly love the fact that in this game you realize the contributions made by 
 our allies in the European War. To see the Red Star and the Union Jack makes this game worth buying. 
 Online play is very enjoyable and once you're finished with the single player I recommend going 
 over there.
  
  Overall Rating: I give this game and 8.5 over all. It only loses points for is scripted gameplay 
 and lack of replay value other then that its one fine game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wardon
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 6, 2005 8:10 am PT
Review:  This game just own... Its a real good WWII game and the best WWII game shooter too. At the beginning 
 you are a american soldier in a training camp and you need to practice yourself. After the real 
 battle begin... in this game you hav 3 campaign : the russian, american and british. I like another 
 things from this game, you choose the difficulty so there is not a real difficulty in the game. 
 AND THERE IS A MULTIPLAYER that a play more than 100 hours lol + the single player mode but the 
 single player mode was too short that is one of the bigest default. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: arfats
Rating: 9.3
Date: Nov 5, 2005 4:43 am PT
Review:  In this game players assume the role of different characters from multiple sides of the allied 
 forces and experience the bonding and brutly of war as they fight along side their squad mates 
 through a variety of missions, including battle field assaults, search and  
 chases and tank battle. Heeding the call of duty ,a US paratrooper, a British commando and a Russian 
 infantryman as they take on the Nazi War machine through pivotal World War 2 battle and authentic 
 military campaigns. In the war no one fight alone is a superb sentece that you use in this game. I 
 can not wait any more fot its another release activision please hurry up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: squalcl
Rating: 8.9
Date: Nov 4, 2005 11:01 am PT
Review:  Call of Duty offers some of the most intense gameplay in first shooter. The missions are well-designed, 
 with excitement and adrenaline rush throughout the game. The graphics is not bad. The "lean left/right" 
 system is very unique, since it reflects reality. I haven't seen a similar system in other WWII 
 shooters. When mortars landed near you, there would be sometime of dizziness or deafness, which 
 is also very realistic. Weapon system also makes sense: you can only carry a couple of weapons 
 with you, so when one's out of ammo, you can swap for some KAR left by the german troops. The scenery, 
 however, can be more diverse. Call of Duty could have incorporated some missions that require stealth 
 all the time, as in special op, not just blasting into a huge scale fire-fight. The weather factor 
 can be more diverse; there could be raining or snowing so that they affect the gameplay, as reducing 
 the awareness of the enemy or in any other ways. But overall, this is an excellent first person 
 shooter. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zwulith
Rating: 9.1
Date: Nov 4, 2005 4:42 am PT
Review:  Call of duty is a tough game to get excited about. It's coming into a market overdone by WW 2 FPS 
 games. Somehow though, this game really rocks. The only thing about it that is negative is a few 
 tough spots makes you quicksave a lot, but thats about it.
  
  Call of duty is a unique WW 2 FPS game, it puts you in the role of the 3 different soldiers in 
 the United States, England, and Russia. All of these small campaigns make up Call of duty. 
  
  Call of duty is a simple mix of fast paced FPS gaming. I mean you will take on about 20 germans 
 in 20 seconds. There everywhere and the shooting is downright satisfying, especially the dramatic 
 music and superb voice work all make a game that you must play. 
  
  I will admit, I wasn't to excited about this game when I first heard about it, but it's a game 
 you have to play to believe. Call of duty is the best in it's class and that's saying something.
 
  
  The difficulty overall is pretty easy, since you can quicksave and no foe is to hard to kill, but 
 they are really smart and will stop at nothing to kill you. There so smart that one time they threw 
 a gernade back at me when I threw it at them, that's pretty darn smart. The best thing about this 
 game though, apart from the music, has to be how well paced it is. The game just flows from one 
 battlefield to another, and your always with someone. Just like the subtitles say: "In war, no 
 one fights alone". They mean it, very rarely will you be on this Medal of Honor one man army killing 
 spree.
  
  This game is pretty realistic too, when a gernade blasts close to you, the sound will drain out 
 then slowly come back. It's great effects like these that make Call of Duty a must play, no matter 
 who you are.
  
  The games campaign isn't to long, but you will want to go through it again to see it with different 
 weapons and such. Each weapon packs a punch but you can only carry 2 a time. Each one of them is 
 fun to use, especially the shotgun, since the effects are pretty satisfying. 
  
  The graphics aren't as great as the music and sound that are in Call of duty, but they are still 
 pretty hot. The environments are all well detailed and you can tell Infinityward had a field day 
 re-making the most important battles of WW 2 perfectly. The problem with the graphics is the character 
 models and the textures. The ground and sand that you run in for example isn't totally perfect 
 and the framerate can drop when theres lots of items on screen. Still, Call of duty is pretty fantastic 
 looking.
  
  Call of duty has some different things you do. The objectives, are all put on this compass that 
 you must follow. The levels are surprisingly anything but linear and the battlefields are wide 
 and varied to give the game a fresh feel, so right when you think you've tired out of the country 
 side, along comes some urban fighting.
  
  Another neat thing about Call of duty is the fact that you never have to open a door. Any door 
 that you can go into or you need to go into, is already open so the pacing never slows down. 
 
  
  You'll usually face dozens of soldiers at once but don't worry, theres plenty of health drinks 
 and health packs lying around for you to have. 
  
  The objectives you do vary, such as destroying a building, rescuing people, or reliving some key 
 moments in WW 2. Some missions require you to shoot at people while in a car, truck, or tank, so 
 your not always on foot. 
  
  Most likely you will be playing this game to death. The game is well paced and insanely fun, so 
 whether you like FPS games or not, you need to check out Call of duty, and since it's now retailing 
 with the Call of duty united offensive expansion pack for only $30-40 bucks, you have no reason 
 not to play this fun game and the great expansion that comes with it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Master_M2K
Rating: 8.4
Date: Nov 3, 2005 4:46 pm PT
Review:  This is a brilliantly stunning game that comes top of all the FPS games I have played, but what 
 makes it so great. Its got to do with its intense single player campaigns & fast paced multiplayer 
 action. For its time I would have to say the graphics are amazing but are not as good as what Im 
 seeing now in other games. The A. I in the game is also amazing where the actually see them take 
 cover from your fire & when the run for cover at the site of a grenade. All in all the game is 
 superb even when you finish the campaign there is always multiplayer, which has some obvious glitches 
 but can be fixed with a patch or 2. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: the-edge-9
Rating: 5.8
Date: Nov 3, 2005 2:11 pm PT
Review:  For those who like linear arcade or console games its great, but pc games excell at there openplay 
 and AI, and this misses on both counts. The visuals are good but the unrealistic game play outweighs 
 this feature. An other sore spot is the horribly accurate sniper rifle, no wonder some complained 
 when battlefield 2 was first released that the sniper rifle sucked. To me multiplayer battlefield 
 and single player operation flashpoint are the games to which all others are measured. So unless 
 the new version becomes more open then the first, I would save my money if you have the same perspective. 
 Personally the update of operation flashpoint could possibly be the new realistic standard. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mazare
Rating: 8.2
Date: Oct 31, 2005 6:31 am PT
Review:  Gameplay:
  Game have very good gameplay. Here in this game are lot of levels and game is not to short. The 
 worst is multiplayer. Multipalyer have only shooting enemies and doesn`t any objectives.
  
  Graphics:
  Graphics are good and better than in Wolfensten: Enemy Territory!!!
  
  Sound:
 
  Sound is very good, but in the game is not any music.
  
  Value:
  Don`t buy this game for multiplayer because is bad. If 
  you want good multiplayer game, take 
 Wolfensten: enemy territory!!!!
  
  Tilt:
  Good gameplay, graphics and sound but multiplayer is bad...
  You must play this game because 
 have amazing singleplayer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fugas16
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 29, 2005 11:23 pm PT
Review:  This Game has everything that u can ask for a game.
  it has Story, accion, it has everything i mean this game its great the person who said that this 
 game its bored please consider your opinion.
  I played Medal of Honor but when call of duty go out i just played the game and goes one of my 
 favorites games.
  to finished this review i need to say one word fro this game PERFECT
  And sorry if a dont 
 have a great grammar that is beacuase im from mexico and i dont know how to write some words sorry 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stopchris
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 29, 2005 3:57 pm PT
Review:  This game is the best game ever made! There is nothing else i can say about it...... it is an experience 
 any gamer should go through. i have spent countless! countless hours playing the multiplayer. the 
 single player i have beat more times than i can count on my fingers. meaning both cod and uo....... 
 then this review is for both.
  
  this game runs on any system, has great graphix and a great multiplayer and single player campaine.
 
  
  if you dont own cod and cod uo then you need to buy it now! especially cause at the time of this 
 review it is only 30 bucks for both! great price for a GREAT game. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: jonahr21
Rating: 9.8
Date: Oct 29, 2005 3:16 pm PT
Review:  NO PROBLEMS WHATSOEVER
  SOLID MULTIPLAYER
  GREAT SP CAMPAIGN 
  
  BUY IT NOW!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!
  
  The battles are great, I've played them over and over again.
 
  
  The graphics are great and can run on a crappy PC such as mine.
  
  Medal of Honor is no substitute.
  
  a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a 
 a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a 
::::::

::::::
UserName: slayer5678
Rating: 9.6
Date: Oct 28, 2005 1:26 pm PT
Review:  This is very possibly one of the best games of all time. The single player is a little iffy but 
 the multiplayer is golden. At first its just a run around sprayfest then after awhile it turns 
 into a completely tactic game. To win youlll need to have very fast reflexes. Once you start to 
 win the game turns into something else. If you find a great clan that will have matches with you 
 this game could last forever. The maps are almost perfect they basically never get boring. Youll 
 love this game so much no shooter will ever be the same!
  
  Buy this game now!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!
  
  PS: Learnig curve is for multiplyer 
::::::

::::::
UserName: freebirdcjb
Rating: 9.6
Date: Oct 26, 2005 7:10 pm PT
Review:  Loved the game and everything about it. This review comes 2 years late but never realized you could 
 write your own reviews. Anyhow where to begin with this game. The graphics for its time were some 
 of the best you could find anywhere. The sounds were simply amazing as well as the story line. 
 The intensity was incredible, and to me the defining intense moment in the game was during the 
 British Campaign at Pegasus Bridge. German infantry and tanks coming in all directions, and having 
 to fend them off while waiting for reinforcements was very memorable. It will go down as one of 
 the greatest historical shooters of all time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tasuke
Rating: 9.4
Date: Oct 26, 2005 8:56 am PT
Review:  This has to be by far the best WW2 game ive ever played and experienced. It puts you right in the 
 battle along with troops actualy fighting in huge battles. The A. I. could have been tweeked to 
 increase performance. Other then that the graphics are awsome when in battle and even the sound 
 of explosions and the detail of everything makes the game eye candy. Multiplayer could have been 
 better if you could go into vehicles but still the intensity of the single player especially in 
 the Russian campaign is what takes the cake. Hopefully in the future games they will learn to better 
 the graphics and gameplay to make a great actualy war game. Overall this is the best WW2 game ive 
 played. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SpeedRunnerx
Rating: 9.8
Date: Oct 25, 2005 3:42 pm PT
Review:  This is a wonderful game. It is my favorite FPS game ever, and there are good reasons why. The 
 single player campaign is highly immersive, although it feels like it rips from the movies "Enemy 
 at the Gates" and "Saving Private Ryan" the presentation of the game is flawless. You feel like 
 you are apart of the war, and the game gives a unique experience in the boots of a Russian soldier... 
 a war story most of us are not filmiliar with. The AI for the game is great. The game is scripted 
 but scripted very well. The graphics are very nice, and the game runs great on almost any system. 
 Its amazing how well the game has been optimized. 
  
  Multiplayer is a "gift that keeps on giving". Call of Duty is uses the Quake 3 engine wonderfully. 
 You can hardly tell that it uses the Q3 engine at all. Multiplayer is very solid, extremely balanced 
 and fair. Maps are well designed. There are many custom maps available... the game just supplies 
 hours and hours of rich gameplay. It's expansion, United Offensive, is even better. Call of Duty 
 has truly set a higher standard for FPS games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Brainkiller05
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 23, 2008 12:37 pm PT
Review:  This game hsa been released a long time now, but it is a great game and in my eyes has a long time 
 before it stops getting played all together, i still play this game on a regular basis and have 
 completed it 3 times, (the 3rd time was today) and i have to say it is actually hard to get bored 
 of this game. It is great fun and enjoyable. Also, i gave this game a great rating and lots of 
 praise, I am not even a fan of the first Person Shooter genre yet I still love this game.
  
  "Most anyone who plays games would more than likely be very impressed with Call of Duty's authentic 
 presentation, well designed and often very intense single-player missions, and fast-paced, entertaining 
 multiplayer modes." That sums up Call of Duty, i have not yet me a person who has played the game 
 and said they do no like it, it is even a favourite with people who do not like war games in general. The 
 game doesn't have a wide range of weapons, that is probably the ONLY downfall of the game, but 
 even though i lacks that every other feature makes up for it. Graphics are superb. AI is also great, 
 never seen or had any problems with the AI.
  
  Multiplayer, the multiplayer is amazing, great fun and also very serious, also is addicting, once 
 you start you can't stop i have had many late nights playing Call Of Duty multiplayer.
  
  So overall, this game is an all round great game, if you are thinking of getting this game, do 
 it, you will have hours of fun and will love every minute of it.
  
  -Thanks 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tehlb2k2
Rating: 9.6
Date: Oct 24, 2005 7:33 pm PT
Review:  Call of Duty lets you play through WWII like never before. You'll be visiting places never imagined! 
 After just a few minutes you'll be hooked to the single player, but wait, theres more! If you loved 
 single player, your going to die for multiplayer.
  
  Lets begin the GAMEPLAY. The gameplay was like never before, I mean, yeah it's like every shooter 
 but it's done so different that it just deserves a 10!
  
  Next, GRAPHICS. I have to admit, the graphics weren't amazing, but they weren't terrible and it 
 did do a great job making you feel right at home! It truly derserves it 8.
  
  Okay, SOUND. Awesome sound! I loved every sound from the bullets whizzing by and the explosions! 
 Gosh, these sure were some good sounds! Definately derserves a 9.
  
  In conclusion, Call of Duty is a great first-person WWII shooter. If your into WWII shooters, heck, 
 even shooters then you must pick up Call of Duty!
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ehskate123
Rating: 9.3
Date: Oct 23, 2005 11:22 am PT
Review:  Call of duty may seem like an ordinary world war two shooter, but it most definently is not. The 
 game is heavily scripted and is superbly fun and addicting. The graphics, although not Half Life 
 2 quality, are great. The sound for the game is truely waht makes the game worthwhile. From the 
 rat tat tat's of the MG 42 to the click of the empty m1 garand. Multiplayer is great but tends 
 to get boring after awhile. The missions are fairly short but are very worthwhile. There are also 
 3 additional missions at the end of the game which will offer more fun and will gear you up for 
 the expansion game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mr_Monkdawg91
Rating: 9.1
Date: Oct 22, 2005 6:34 pm PT
Review:  I've played all the ww2 shooters out there, and the one that has impressed me the most is Call of 
 Duty. The game is so freakin intense. The A. I will use whatever tactic avalable to grind you into 
 a pulp. If you get up in their face they'll beat you with there weapon with no remorse.
  
  The sounds of war have never before in any other shooter matched cod's awesome audio. You can hear 
 the sounds of incoming mortars and you will hear bullets whizzing above your head.
  
  There are three factions you can play as in single play; the American's [101'st Airborne] the British. and 
 the Russians, each with a sweet ammount of awesome weapons.
  
  .The levels are somewhat linear and they are relatively simple to get through. Luckily, there are 
 higher difficulty settings [yes, i admit, i beat it on greenhorn] Sadly, it wo'nt take you long at 
 all to beat the game.
  
  BUT! The online feature will keep you playing and can be just as intense as the single-play mode. There 
 are several awesome mod's added on to the Multi-play experience. Have I mentioned how intense the 
 game is?
  
  If you are in to the first-person-shooting genre [wich you probably are if your reading this review] you 
 should pick up CoD now that it's only like $20.00
  I know that COD2 is coming out in a few days so I guess I'm a little late. But for twenty bucks 
 this game is well worth it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rizzo91
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 16, 2005 4:22 pm PT
Review:  Call of Duty is one of the best WWII games you can ever get. The action is explosive and never 
 ending. In this game for almost all the levels you'll have buddies fighting along side you. This 
 makes for great battlefield action. Hordes of allies and enemies alike are fighting it out and 
 your right there in the middle of it. In this game you'll play as three different men that were 
 in WWII. First an American paratrooper, then a British Sargent, and then a Russian who was basically 
 thrown into the army, among others. The American and Russian missions are great, but the British 
 ones are commando style missions mostly. They are pretty stupid, expecially the ones where your 
 either alone or with one guy on your team. Fortuantly the U. S. levels are awsome and the Russian 
 ones are pretty crazy. In the first two levels you'll be thrown into the battlefield with Millions 
 apon millions of other Russians and you'll be basically running directly into gunfire unarmed! 
 Since there are so many AI's on screen the characters aren't that detailed, but the voice acting 
 and gunfire sounds are amazing. 
  
  Also the multiplayer, while it isn't the main attraction it will keep you going once you're tired 
 of the campaign. Which will take a while. You'll find the basic gameplay modes and fight it out 
 as either axis or ally. It's nothing new and the SMG and support guns seem a little too dominant 
 over the rifles. Although some clan servers make it rifles only. Rifles only slows down the action 
 and makes it a sniper match basically, but levels with SMGs will give you a lot more action.
  
  Overal this is a great WWII FPS and a great FPS in general. It packs in all the authentic weapons, 
 and all the explosive action that was in WWII. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Port5
Rating: 9.4
Date: Oct 16, 2005 1:23 pm PT
Review:  Call of Duty is not just for World War II fanatics, it is for those that like the First-Person 
 shooter and for World War II fans. It is also a very historically accurate game, with correct weapons 
 and battles to the time. The weapons even look like the actual weapons used. The gameplay is wonderful 
 and highly addicting. The graphics are great, and all the sounds are always in sync. The game takes 
 a long time to pass on Greenhorn. (Very easy on skill level) Even easy is very hard to pass. The 
 game gets very intense and confusing, because bullets are flying past you, are falling from the 
 sky, and your Captains are yelling orders at you over the whole thing. It is possibly one of the 
 best shooters out there on the market for anyone looking for some fun. It is the best of its kind 
 - What else is there for me to say? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PhizzlePop88
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 16, 2005 12:16 pm PT
Review:  perfect perfect perfect perfect perfect perfect perfect perfect perfect perfect perfect perfect 
 perfect perfect perfect perfect perfect perfect perfect perfect perfect perfect perfect perfect 
 perfect perfect perfect perfect perfect perfect perfect perfect perfect perfect perfect perfect 
 perfect perfect perfect perfect perfect perfect perfect perfect perfect perfect perfect perfect 
 perfect perfect perfect perfect perfect perfect perfect perfect perfect perfect perfect perfect 
 perfect perfect perfect perfect perfect perfect perfect perfect perfect perfect perfect perfect 
 perfect perfect perfect perfect perfect perfect perfect perfect perfect perfect perfect perfect 
 perfect perfect perfect perfect perfect perfect perfect perfect perfect perfect perfect perfect 
 perfect perfect perfect perfect perfect perfect perfect perfect perfect perfect perfect perfect 
 perfect perfect perfect perfect perfect perfect perfect perfect perfect perfect perfect perfect 
 perfect perfect perfect perfect perfect perfect perfect perfect perfect perfect perfect perfect 
 perfect perfect perfect perfect perfect perfect perfect perfect perfect perfect perfect perfect 
 perfect perfect perfect perfect perfect perfect perfect perfect perfect perfect perfect perfect 
 perfect perfect perfect perfect perfect perfect perfect perfect perfect perfect perfect perfect 
 perfect perfect perfect perfect perfect perfect perfect perfect perfect perfect perfect perfect 
 perfect perfect perfect perfect perfect perfect 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kitch88
Rating: 9.6
Date: Oct 16, 2005 6:58 am PT
Review:  "Lay down base of Fire... TANKS... Fall back to the bridge..." *Thwack* three of your fellow para's 
 drop to the ground as a Panzer throws down a volley of fire at your position. "Sergeant, man that 
 flack gun and remove the tank" At that point 3 German riflemen pop up, and before I know it three 
 big rounds have ripped me appart.
  
  The Defense of Pegasus bridge - its a MOH: AA beater by far... sure the Omaha Beach was good, but 
 Call of duty tops it by far... The sounds, the flashes, the effects, the whole thing.. nicly poslished, 
 rich feel.
  
  For those who do not know what Call of Duty is about, its a WWII tactical/FPS shooter (it's by 
 no means a shoot 'em up, you don't need a brain for them) You are either a US Private in the 506th 
 Parachute Regiment - and follow a very Band of Brothers esq story line - which is, I must say INTENSE, 
 or a British SGT in the Parachute Regiment or finally a Russian Conscript and you and your fellow 
 commrades are pitted agaisnt the German War Machine... now let me stree you and YOUR COMMRADES 
 - no MOH: AA one man army... you are in a fighting unit, in a platoon, with other people... your 
 a tiny cog in a big war machine. And that is where the game gets this amazing feel from... watching 
 your mates die out there in a forign country, actualy makes you go sad... you jump up charge a 
 MG42 with your pistol, just because private Eder died next to you... however unlike MOH: AA where 
 it would be perfectly acceptable to charge a MG42 with a pistol - do that in COD and you will be 
 sucking up lead in no time, that being the KEY DIFFERENCE you have to behave like your actually 
 there, be scared when bullets fly past you, and hiss and ping of the pathertic cover you tried 
 to hide in, know when to get up and run, realise when you are given an order, failure to carry 
 it out would just result in you and your FRIENDS being whiped out. The game makes you realise war 
 is not all MOH: AA its scary, and loud and watching your mates die will hurt.
  
  The graphics are awesome, textures are great, the fire and explosions are simply breath taking, 
 the models are great as with the skinning and whats more the weapons are top notch - with full 
 3D iron sights the game really puts you in the perspective of a soldier. The sounds are by far 
 the most atmospheric sounds ever - the richoeets, the boom of weaponry, the clink of empty brass, 
 then noise of dirty hitting the floor... its way to real...
  
  So in all COD is a tidy, well finished, almost faultless, awsome shooteer which tops all those 
 "good bits" in MOH: AA and will leave you gasping for more. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: srickert12
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 15, 2005 6:26 pm PT
Review:  Overall this is a great game. It has a good storyline and lets you play different characters. I 
 feel that it is somewhat limited to what you can and cannot do. The game is to scripted. However 
 the graphics are great and the sound is really good. I just feel it leave a lot to be desired in 
 a war game. I would like to have seen you be able to get medals and earn rank. I would have also 
 liked to have seen stats at the end of the mission. If you are looking for a WWII game then Medal 
 Of Honor offers much more features. This game is pretty much a scripted shoot em up game that offers 
 a high level of intensity, but doesn't leave you fufilled in the end. I did enjoy the game, but 
 I wouldn't play it again after beating it the first time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: andremafia
Rating: 9.3
Date: Sep 12, 2005 12:38 pm PT
Review:  Call of Duty is a FPS and a good one by signal.
  
  Singleplayer: The campaign mode is very good, you take the role an American, a British and a Russian. 
 You will start by doing some missions as American, then more Missions as British and some Missions 
 as Russian, at the end you make one more mission as each soldiers, each Mission represents the 
 end of the war to the different allies armys (USA, UK and the Sovietic Union) of course that the 
 final Sovietic mission is to conquer Berlin.
  
  Multiplyer: The CoD multiplayer is very good, there are some exclusive maps for multiplayer, each 
 one can hold 32 players. As for game types, there are many: from Headquarters to Deathmacth, there 
 are game types to every taste. Even now (2 years later) there are still lot's of people playing 
 multiplayer so you can play CoD for a very long time after ending the singleplayer...
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gamerichard
Rating: 9.3
Date: Sep 7, 2005 8:31 pm PT
Review:  The graphics are good. They are very sharp and the animations are good. The overall look is nothing 
 extraordinary, but it's good.
  
  The sounds are CoD's maybe strongest card. The music, the sound effects and the voice overs are 
 all very good. The sound effects are especially good and creates the huge intensity of the game.
 
  
  The gameplay is awesome. You are thrown into the war and you're feeling pretty small sometimes 
 compared to the huge German troups. There's total chaos and you're shooting all around you in panic. 
 The game is brilliant and must be experienced by every war fan out there. You change sides through 
 the single player. You start up with the americans, and later on you control the english and russian 
 armies. This is very cool, because the environments and weapons change, and the game suddenly has 
 alot of variation. You don't drive any vehicles in the game, except a tank later on in the game, 
 but you never miss the option to drive vehicles cause this game is just brilliant as it is! The 
 game even features a great multiplayer, which lengthens the lifespan of the game. Buy this game 
 if you wan't enjoy videogaming, cause this is brilliant entertainment. The game is very short, 
 but you'll wan't to play it over and over cause it's so awesome!
  
  +
  Good graphics. The sounds are perfect, with awesome music and sound effects. You control 3 different 
 countries. The game is very, very chaotic. The multiplayer is very good.
  
  -
  The single player is very short. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cauldar1971
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 6, 2005 8:22 pm PT
Review:  I haven't been a big fan of First Person Shooters. I was blown away by Wolfenstein 3D when it first 
 came out and, at the height of a Nine Inch Nails obsession, I fell in love with the "Alien"-style 
 landscape of Quake. Still, I never had the drive to plunge my way through the endless levels. The 
 really chaotic levels were more disorienting than exciting.
  
  All that took a dramatic change when I got my hands on Medal of Honor: Allied Assault. The sound 
 effects and easy-to-use interface created a plausible world that pulled me all the way through. 
 When Call of Duty was first released, I was vaguely interested, but not terribly eager to re-hash 
 the WWII experience with what seemed like a regurgitation of the same formula.
  
  That said, I am glad that I finally gave it a chance. MOHAA had done a remarkable job of realizing 
 Steven Spielberg's cinematic visions in "Saving Private Ryan" and the "Band of Brothers" series 
 on HBO. The D-Day invasion in MOHAA is still one of the most memorable experiences I've enjoyed 
 in a game. Call of Duty has taken the best elements of MOHAA and extended into a very streamlined 
 single-player game and cranked the intensity up a notch. The D-Day invasion echoes in the early 
 stages of the Soviet campaign where the gamer is thrown into an up-hill assault without a weapon. 
 The crunching-snow intensity of MOHAA's enemy-infested forests are also back. There are some fantastic, 
 intense firefights that break out throughout the game including a last-stand defense of a bridge 
 (did I mention the "Saving Private Ryan" inspiration) that had me flinching from the hail of surround-sound 
 gunfire.
  
  Overall, I think this is an excellent buy from the discount bin. I rarely purchase something when 
 it first comes out, but with a single-player campaign as short as this one, I'm glad that I waited 
 for it to drop a couple price points. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dope999
Rating: 9.2
Date: Feb 24, 2006 6:40 am PT
Review:  Call of Duty really changed my mind about WWII games. I had played Medal of Honor, but i didn't 
 like that much. But then i played Call of Duty, then i got the feeling, I just have to own this 
 game. The game is still one of my favorites in my collection.
  
  Gameplay: Absolutely stunning. The intense battles against the Nazi's is something i never get 
 tired of. And the multiplayer version is something you quickly get addicted to.
  
  Graphics: Maybe I shouldn't say so much about the game's graphics, but my computer sucks too much. 
 But anyway I think it's my "Duty" :P, to give 9/10 in graphics anyway.
  
  Sound: The background sound, sounds so great and the voice-acting too.
  
  Value: Maybe the 
 game costs to much? I think it do. But I just can't tell anything bad about CoD anyway...
  
  Call of Duty can be highly recommended!
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Buick87GNXv6
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 24, 2005 12:26 pm PT
Review:  Since I have found myself regularly turning out game reviews that moan about poor gameplay, linearity, 
 dumbing down for console kiddies, average graphics, no atmosphere and my biggest bugbear, bloody 
 awful quality control, I felt that I had to say that this game suffers from _none_ of these. I 
 really liked Medal of Honour, but this game is just _so_ much better - it looks better, runs better, 
 has huge atmosphere and is, as far as I can see, bug free. The only issue I have is that its a 
 bit short. But then again if they'd made it 5 times longer I enjoyed the experience so much and 
 found it immersive enough that that would probably have felt too short as well. Absolutely excellent 
 game.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bungiehalo
Rating: 9.3
Date: Aug 17, 2005 1:17 pm PT
Review:  When I see yet another WWII game, I just say to myself "Its gunna suck," but this definitely proved 
 me wrong. It doesn't really set its self away from most FPS with special features, this game is 
 a regular FPS, but at a much faster pace. In some of the battles, you are constantly keeping cover 
 and peaking out as you try to snipe out your enemy. Or you are attacking inside a building and 
 you turn the corner to find five Nazis firing at you. After every level, you either take a deep 
 breath because it was so intense, click next level because it so damn fun, or skip the boring videos 
 (you know, the historical videos they have in every WWII videogame) .
  
  In the beginning of the game, you are set off as the paratrooper on D-Day, and not more than 3 
 minutes into the game, you are forced to run across a field with only dead cows as cover, and 15 
 Nazis are firing at you, one in a turret. And all you can do is run as fast as you can to a wall 
 near the front of the building, because if you stop, you die.
  
  The graphics are just iffy. They are good, but not great. I did play the game like 2 years after 
 it came out, but even when it came out, they were just ok. But still suitable.
  
  The sound... now that is an awesome quality about this game. The rifles, flak gun, panzerfausts, 
 tanks... everything sounds so real! The sniper is the best at proving this because, in the bigger 
 area, you are at, the more of an echo, and there is a difference in the echoes. Also, when you 
 are being fired upon by a turret, crank up the volume because it just makes it 5 times more intense.
 
  
  The only problem with the sound is that the music, although it is very well orchestrated, it is 
 too repetitive. But its not that bad, because at the intense moments it really pays.
  
  A must buy! Even if you haven't played it yet, seriously buy it, the GOY edition is out for only 
 $30 bucks.
  
  ____________________________
  + Great, intense action
  + Addicting and fun
  + Amazing sound affects
  - Repetitive music
  - Annoyingly frustrating 
 at times
  ? Whats with the historical videos that they show in every WWII game, its kind of old people...
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: cortot20
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 15, 2005 2:17 am PT
Review:  This was the first of the recent world war 2 themed shooters I played, when I was done I didn't 
 want to play any others because I knew they could not compare to the raw energy and immersive environments 
 that were created in this game. Each of the three campaigns are well balanced with a variety of 
 missions. Of course almost all missions break down to shooting every Nazi you see. The hard part 
 is that there are a whole hell of a lot of them. 
  The missions vary from fairly easy and straight forward to incredibly difficult, making you want 
 to break your keyboard in half. For any fan of first person shooters who wants to experience the 
 best WW2 themed shooter there is, look no further, and whats even better is that it has been out 
 for awhile so now its budget priced. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheTuff
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 6, 2005 5:35 pm PT
Review:  If there is one First-Person war-game I could have, and only that one, it would have to be this. 
 Call of Duty is prehaps the most complete World War II games ever, and brilliant in every way.
 
  
  With 24 missions spanning the whole war, and the chance to play as each of the main Allies; the 
 USA, the UK and Russia. You get the full range of guns from each army, and each has its own advantages 
 and disadvantages, as in real life.
  
  The game, visually, looks beautiful. It's amazing crafted and you can see the horror in each soldier's 
 eyes when he shot down.
  
  The sounds keep the game at a great level, with the music added such an atmosphere to any position 
 you're in, and the rumbles and explosions from air-strikes in the background adds to the feel of 
 being in a war-zone.
  
  And the multi-player is absolutely fantastic too, the online game being so complete, just like 
 the single player. I've had hours of fun from playing this both on and off line, playing as different 
 types of soldiers and using different tactics.
  
  A brilliant game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Random1992
Rating: 8.9
Date: Nov 23, 2005 5:43 pm PT
Review:  Hmm, hard to describe... Just a great wargame you know?  So relistic. The gameplay is extremely 
 realistic.
  
  Gameplkay: So realistic you are IN ware when you play this game. Phenomenal.
  
  Graphics: Not 
 so good, games could've done a lot better with the graphics. This is extremely iffy. They're really 
 ncie to look at though.
  
  Sound: Amazing, yo hearing the gunfire and everything going on at once.
  
  Value: Good game, 
 but worth as much as bargianed for and it has good replay value.
  
  Tilt: I lvoed it, I play multiplayer too. The multiplayer is great as well as the single player 
 is. But you get bored of the single and then multi picsk you up for a ride. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rudyfan04
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 24, 2005 11:49 pm PT
Review:  This is a wonderful game! You will have hours of fun on multiplayer. The one bad thing about the 
 game is that campaign is too short. You get to play as a Russian, British and American soldier. 
 Each mission in the game is planned out very well, and you will have a great time playing it. Multiplayer 
 is very fun. There are many different games to play on MP, such as Search and Destroy, Team Deathmatch, 
 Deathmatch and more! There are also a ton of different servers you can play on, which some have 
 their own custom rules, making their server unique. Maps I have seen to have up 64 people, but 
 there could be more. There are also some with just a little game of 10 people. You can play on 
 the maps in campaign and some people have custom maps they play on. Overall this is a great game, 
 but the multiplayer is what makes it the best WW2 first person shooter to date. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DEATH775
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 22, 2005 4:38 am PT
Review:  If you ask me this game has everything. The gameplay is very intense. They really know how to make 
 it look like we are in a war situation. The graphic is great for now that is. The sounds are marvellous 
 especially when you are wearing a headphone or using a hi-tech sound system. The story is what 
 made me buy this game cause it is based on a true war in the 1950's. If you like MEDAL OF HONOR 
 you will surely love this game just like I did. So what are you waiting for, buy it now. I let 
 my friend borrowed this game and he finished it in just 8 hours. But it took me 2 days to finished 
 this game maybe cause I'm too busy playing other games. Overall this game is a must buy. But if 
 your still not sure just rent it and in the end you'll believe me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SixSigma1978
Rating: 7
Date: Jul 12, 2005 7:25 am PT
Review:  I've had so much fun playing this game, its absolutely indescribable.
  The rush of adrenaline when u take down a Jerry. The Whoop of victory when u take down a Nazi Tank 
 and the shrill of an incoming artillery shell as it comes down right over ur head with the cacophony 
 of gunfire and RPG blasts all around you. YEsirree, i doubt even saving private ryan can achieve 
 the depth this game has infused into the genre.
  
  The real concept behind was is to potray its magnitude. The sheer vastness of the concept and the 
 horrific moments it brings about. Death is always peering over your shoulder. Its this gamut of 
 fear and thrill that tears through the soldier as he makes his heroic charge towards a seemingly 
 unending destination, with only one goal in sight. Victory! 
  Putting all this into one game is certainly a phenomenal task and I'm closely looking forwrad to 
 COD2 to see what new magic these guys can bring in.
  
  Needless to say, this game tops all rankings in FPS closely followed by HL2!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vermouth
Rating: 8.2
Date: Jul 10, 2005 5:47 pm PT
Review:  World War II wasn't fought by one man, says the Call of Duty box. With that tag-line, I had high 
 hope's for Infinity Ward's 2003 first person shooter. And while it was a good game it failed to 
 live up to my expectations. In the end if their version of WW2 was reality it really was 3 people 
 who swung key battles. The game has very strong production values but in the end it can't shake 
 a feeling of deja vu. 
  
  Infinity Ward, is a team of exiles from 2015 the team that made Medal of Honor: Allied Assault in 
 2002. While that company split with EA and made Men of Valor in the Jungles of Southeast Asia, 
 Infinity takes us back to the battlegrounds of Europe during the Second World War. They once again 
 turned to the venerable Quake 3 engine and surprisingly the old war horse still had a good deal 
 of life in it. The game looks pretty darn good, by any standard. When you consider that the Quake 
 3 engine was in it's 4th year since Quake 3's 99 launch that's quite impressive. All the better 
 any modern graphics card will be able to fly through this game. I never checked my frame rate on 
 my 9800 but benchmarks tell me it should have been well over 100 fps even with everything turned 
 up. Environments range from bombed out cities like Stalingrad and Berlin to classic Hedgerows action 
 in Normandy, they all look pretty darn spiffy. One thing that I found surprising is the quality 
 of the faces. When you're on a boat with a few dozen Soviet conscripts if you look at each of them 
 in the face their aren't any drones here everyone looks a bit different. 
  
  The audio for this game is fantastic. Battles really sound like you'd imagine battles to sound. 
 The guns sound fantastic and if the M1 sound can be taken to be representative they all sound like 
 they're supposed to. (the M1 Garrand is the only one I've heard the genuine article fired first 
 hand) In addition to that the game has a first rate set of ambient sounds, the German soldiers 
 scream things in German which i don't understand. Americans and Brits scream and give orders in 
 English that sounds like I'd imagine some of the stuff on a Battlefield might sound like. You can 
 always tell there is fighting going on too as there are always lots of sounds of battles. My one 
 complaint with the ambient sounds is that the Russians Soldiers speak in English even when they're 
 not speaking to you. I'd preferred to have seen the Russian scenes all done in Russian with Subtexts 
 for us Americans who don't speak Russian but Infinity decided on accessibility over authenticity. 
 
  
  In the end none of that matters unless the game has great game play and at times it does. At times 
 it's just more of the same. It has it's moments like the battle for Red Square and Storming the 
 Riechstag, which disproportionately are in the last campaign, the Soviet Campaign which are pretty 
 special. But then it's got a lot of been here done that just as well. I mean it's got the D-Day 
 Mission where you take out AA-Guns, and the mission where you need to hold a position against some 
 insane odds, the country villa mission, you know all the stuff you've done 100 times in MOH games 
 if you've played a lot of those. It's already been done about as well but it's still fairly fun 
 but you might start wondering if you've seen every single country home in Northern France after 
 playing the MOH series, this game, Brothers in Arms etc. Parts of the Soviet campaign still feel 
 fresh, maybe just by virtue of the new setting but it raises the game from that been there done 
 that feel. The only other problem with the game is it's a bit short. Each Nation should take you 
 between 3-5 hours for no more than 12-15 hours tops. The multiplayer of MOH never did much for 
 me and this one is just as uninspired in my book. If you liked that style of game then maybe this 
 will appeal to you. 
  
  So I suppose the question is, are you completely burnt out on The Second World War as an action 
 game? If you've got even the slightest spark this game has enough to make it worthy of the under 
 20 bucks you can find it for on Amazon pretty easily for. I payed about 10 bucks for this title 
 and consider it a good purchase. If you can't stand to shoot another Nazi obviously this title 
 isn't going to do much for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stangsaleen2000
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 7, 2005 11:50 pm PT
Review:  Out of all the WWII games out there this is the best one. The campaign goes through the same things 
 as Medal of Honor and some other WWII games. Except this game does it better. It puts the insanity 
 of Saving Private Ryan into a game. Instead of the same machine guns firing at you, this it is 
 more random. The AI is ok, there kind of smart but, nothing amazing. The campaigns are good with 
 there variety of battles and weapons you use. Over all, the single-player is worth playing more 
 than once. You can raise the difficulty and hard actually is hard. The on-line play is very close 
 to the Medal of Honor on-line which isn't that great. If your thinking about getting this game 
 for the single-player I say go for it. It didn't disappoint me. Just don't look forward to the 
 on-line. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Witchking111111
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 11, 2005 12:46 am PT
Review:  When Call of Duty first came out, I was kind of getting bored of the same old Medal of Honor games. 
 Just one person going around killing off many Germans will some ok graphics wasn't any fun anymore. 
 I wanted something new. That's when I saw the commercial for Call of Duty. The graphics looked 
 perfect and seeing you work with a number of other soldiers was what I had always hoped for.
  I finally got Call of Duty in December 2003. I installed it on my computer and loaded it up. From 
 the first level of training to the last Russian level in Berlin, Call of Duty was perfect in every 
 aspect. With three campaigns you could play for, the Americans, the best one in my opinion, the 
 British and the Russians, Call of Duty never became boring like other games. The graphics were 
 terrific. Detailed in almost everything, Call of Duty was the greatest FPS ever. The gameplay was 
 addicitve. Finally, a game where you could hear and see your team of allies working to fight and 
 defeat the Axis. Perfect is what I'm using to describe this game.
  After I finally beat Call of Duty in easy, medium and hard mode, I decided to try multiplayer online 
 and see if it was anymore fun than the singleplayer. It was unbelievable. The multiplayer was even 
 better than singleplayer. It was so addictive. The multiplayer in Call of Duty was the best thing 
 about the game. The many different multiplayer modes and levels kept you busy for many weeks.
 
  The wide variety of weapons was a great feature as well. When you were the Americans, you would 
 have the American weapons, like the Thompson and BAR. When you were the British, you would have 
 the Bren and Sten. When you were the Russians, you would have the PPsh and the Mosin-Nagant. The 
 weapons matched up with the ally forces.
  Call of Duty was perfect in every aspect which is why I'm giving Call of Duty a perfect 10 score. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: master_blue
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jun 6, 2005 2:39 pm PT
Review:  Call of duty is a FPS set in WW2, you play a British side of the campaign, American and Soviets, 
 so the allied side then, in multiplayer though you can play as the Nazi Germans (one side is always 
 Nazi Germans.) The singleplayer takes you through various stages of WW2 and its ended off very 
 well with a little film reel from after WW2 and a Soviet infantryman speaking about when he met 
 the other allied forces.
  
  Each nation has its own weapons which are varied even if they are seemingly similar such as the 
 bolt action rifles, theyre usually all powerful , long ranged but have slow rate of fire but the 
 British lee enfield rifle doesnt slow down the person carrying it as much as the others.
  
  Some weapons though are totally different, the German MP44 machine gun is very poweful but its 
 best used when firing from a prone position and even then only in short bursts, wereas the Soviet 
 PPsh has a 71 round magazine and you can pretty much just run and gun with that.
  
  The singleplayer has very nice set pieces such as running through the streets of stalingrad but 
 it feels like the developers just copied bits out of enemy at the gates and other WW2 movies. There 
 is also alot of tank battles in the game which are ok but I prefer being an infantry man.
  Multiplayer is a better part of the game in my opinion, yes you can sometimes get annoying people 
 but thats life. The maps are usually well made, obviously you can tell the smaller levels are designed 
 for close quarter fighting and the bigger levels for rifles, but there are one or two levels which 
 just consist of a couple of choke points and a really boring level which is suicidal for anyone 
 without a sniper rifle, all a matter of skill and taste.
  
  There are good elements added into the gameplay aswell which are not so subtle, with the various 
 weapons you'll find its best to fight from a prone position but offcourse this stops you being 
 mobile, also you'll find your accurate when lining up you scope or 'iron sight' which is done to 
 great effect in the game, multiplayer also encourages some team work, you'll often find lone glory 
 hogs running to their deaths often then talking trash.
  
  Sound wise the game is very good aswell, the troops will shout and curse and the voice acting is 
 done very well, the sound track is very nice, not quite as good as say Band of Brothers (tv programme) 
 but its good enough.
  
  Graphically Call of Duty is solid, there are some very nice effects from explosions and shell shock 
 (too close to an explosion and you'll become dizzy and your vision is distorted) , the terrain looks 
 pretty good, can seem alittle samey after a while and the character models and animation are also 
 pretty good, nothing spectacular mind but good enough none the less.
  
  Call of Duty is a very good game, its multiplayer will keep you playing for longer as the campaign 
 is good to play through but strikes me as something you'll rarely play once its completed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PNXPNX
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 1, 2005 9:35 pm PT
Review:  This is the best WW2 ive played in a while. The game is way better than Medal of Honor. Great graphics, 
 good story line and awesome sound. The game play is great and the has most of the weapons used 
 in WW2 like the carbine, M1 Garand and the BAR. You can other play as the Americans, British or 
 Russians in this game. From Stalingrad to D-day and from attacking a town with a squad of men to 
 defend a town with a platoon of men. This game has a good multiplayer and a lot of maps to choose 
 from. There is also different type of modes you can choose from, like Death Match, Team Death Match 
 or Head Quarters. Give this game a try and see for yourself that this game is amazing.. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Wilfred_Owen
Rating: 8.8
Date: May 26, 2005 6:41 pm PT
Review:  Call of Duty, hailed as the best WW2 shooter of all time, is a great game. There are some problems 
 with it though (as with all games) . 
  
  The postive parts of the game are:
  1. Great Single Player, I enjoyed the single player so much. It was fast paced and intense at times. 
 I always went back and played the single player missions over and over.
  2. Great Weapons, the weapons are authentic and they all look great.
  3. Sound Effects, the sound 
 effects were well done. Everything sounded real, the planes passing overhead, explosions, etc.
 
  4. Level Design, the games level designs were great. Multiplayer had some of the best level design 
 I've ever seen in a FPS multiplayer. All the levels in single player helped really create that 
 good WW2 exp for me.
  
  The negative parts of the game are:
  1. Single Player, it was so great but so SHORT. It was 6 hours, at the longest.
  2. Multplayer, 
 its multiplayer was lackluster. It felt like a big frag fest, thats all. Not to mention it was 
 very unstable. It only provided me with about an hour and half of fun then I was pretty much bored 
 and looking for something else to play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Inu_yasha_911
Rating: 9.7
Date: May 21, 2005 6:14 pm PT
Review:  I have not got much to say about this game really, other than that it is one of the best games 
 I have ever played in my entire life. Honestly.
  
  The gamplay is some of the smoothest, most fun gameplay I have ever seen. It all feels like you 
 are really moving around as a soldier and you walk like a soldier carrying loads of heavy bags 
 would walk. Both Multiplayer and single player are outstanding.
  
  The graphics are outdated by today's standards but the result is an incredibly undemanding game 
 to play. It plays smooth on even very low end PCs. The thing about this game that stands out to 
 me though in the graphics department is that the character models are insanely real looking. You 
 actually feel like that is a person you are shooting at, and the motion animation in some of the 
 best I've ever seen. 
  
  The sound is superb. It really gives you a feeling that you are in a war. Outstanding.
  
  The 
 value is great, it is only about $20 now.
  
  I had the most fun with this game out of any game I've ever played in my life and I'm still enjoying 
 it after over 150 hours of play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xbxjetraider
Rating: 9
Date: May 14, 2005 4:33 am PT
Review:  Their have been many games based on WW2. Many of the offer the same battles. Many of the are FPS... Call 
 Of Duty, is among the best of them. The game puts you in the shoes of an American, Britain, and 
 Russian soldier. You get to play the game from 3 different perspectives.
  
  Each of the perspectives are pretty much the same... However the Russian campaign seems to take 
 a turn for difference. It's perhaps the most intriguing part of the game, since your first mission 
 as a Russion soldier starts you off without a gun.
  
  The game has battles which we've all seen. However, Call Of Duty gives the best feel to them. When 
 you're shooting Nazi's the sound of the game really takes over. Bullets flying across your head, 
 the last shot springing from your gun, the screaming of orders from your Captain is just so intense, 
 it makes you feel like your actually on the battle field. The games effects are so great, when 
 a bomb lands within feet of you, the screen blurs and the sound dampens as if you lost your senses 
 temporarly.
  
  Call Of Duty's overall expierience leaves you feeling as if your in a WW2 movie. At times you have 
 to wait for re-enforcments, and it seems as if they would never arrive. The music tone during these 
 points of the game give a dramatic feeling, as if your near to death, and then allied bombers come 
 in and save you and your squad.
  
  No doubt Call of Duty is a game thats been done over and over again. But it's the definging game 
 that makes you see what WW2 was if you didn't know. You wont be rescuing Jewish prisoners, you'll 
 simply be killing Nazis, destroying tanks, and shooting down Airplanes. If anyone is looking to 
 learn about WW2 from the Allies perspectives on the battlefield, Call Of Duty is one game you should 
 pick up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: -Katur-
Rating: 9.6
Date: May 13, 2005 5:42 am PT
Review:  Indeed it is the best WWII game out, Brothers in arms is not better.
  COD's single player is great, fun, cinematic and in the Russian compains, Intense. Though, not 
 really a story or characters it is very fun going through Europe in war-torn cities as you see 
 in movie-reels and movies. Its graphics, while not the best are still good. Its weapons are very 
 realistic, sounding, looking and operation. Its MP is the best and will keep you playing for a 
 long after since its SP is rather... short. Historically acurate? Well maybe not as much as games 
 such as BIA but its better than BF42. Over all, must have for people interested in WWII or anyone 
 who just has a PC. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shadowboy44
Rating: 9.1
Date: May 3, 2005 9:23 pm PT
Review:  Call of Duty is the best WWII game I have ever played. With solid controls, a great campaign mode 
 (albeit short) , and a solid multiplayer, I have no doubts in recommending this game to any FPS 
 fan.
  
  The sound in Call of Duty is brilliant. The sound is the best I have heard in not only and WWII 
 FPS, but the best in any FPS I've played. The sound makes you feel like you are actually in the 
 war, with the sounds of gunfire ringing around you and mortar fire make deafening sounds as they 
 drop inches from you. No one who has played this game with the sound on can say it is bad.
  
  The graphics for the game are also brilliant. It again makes you feel in the war. The only 
 complaint is the fact that you can not change or rid of the crosshair. 
  
  The final and most important category is the gameplay. First off the controls responsive and they 
 use for the most part the standard FPS keyboard layout. Of course the keyboard is fully customizable, 
 but that comes expected by now. The gameplay is the standard here are your goals go do them gameplay 
 done to perfection. The scripted events just add to the experience. I do have two complaints, though. 
 One is sometimes the guns are a little too precise which makes it a little unrealistic. It sometimes 
 too easy to hit your spot. The second is the game is a little too linear. You can flank from at 
 best two or three angles but for the most part straying from path leads to mines. Still, even with 
 the few quirks, the game is a superb addition to anyone's game library. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SilverEdge000
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 23, 2006 7:24 pm PT
Review:  Another WWII shooter? You bet, and it's one of the best ever made.
  
  Medal of Honor was the smash WWII series, until three main develpers who worked on the Medal of 
 Honor series moved to a new project that was Call of Duty. 
  
  This game is a definently one of the most intense WWII games to date. Although it may be the original, 
 it can still be called one of the best looking and sounding games to date. Call of Duty, I believe, 
 was one of the first games to incorperate the "shellshock" effect, which is when an explosive (grenade, 
 mortar, artillery, etc.) lands near you, judging that it doesn't kill you, you have blured vision 
 and noise is muffled and a loud ringing continues until the effect wears off. It's a great effect 
 that really adds to the atmosphere of war.
  
  War, while it may be fun in video games, is not a great thing. Call of Duty tries to enphesize 
 the horror of war while also making it entertaining. The game shows off some of the most intense 
 combat ever witnessed. The sound of the game is really the true ruler of the realizm. Bullets whizzing 
 by, grandes exploding, mortars smashing the earth, it's all really fantastic and ,by all means, 
 tense. This is one of the few games that makes me hit the dirt when an MG42 burps. Seeing the flash 
 of the machine gun, dirt getting kicked up everywhere, and the whole time you're thinking "I don't 
 want to die". Instead of trying to kill on instinct, your first reaction is to survive, much like 
 how it is in the real world. Call of Duty really emphesized the tense moments and brings out a 
 cinematic experience that can be called nothing other than superb.
  
  The muliplayer portion of the game is a great thing to play on when you've blown through the single 
 player campaign. Firefights are big, and there can be up to 32 players in one server (although 
 many people mod this limit and bring it up to 64 players, which is extrememly intense and entertaining) .
 
  
  Gameplay: This is a very intense game and it really brings battles to life. Although the whole 
 game is scripted and linear, you'll still appreciate all the action going on all around you. Multiplayer 
 is truly spectacular, also. No battle is fought the same in these intense and challeging mulitplayer 
 matches ranging from your basic Deathmatch and Team Deathmatch, to Headquarters and Search and 
 Destroy.
  
  Graphics: Some textures are muddy and the movement of the soldiers is rather birdlike. That being 
 the only thing to complain about, this game has some great visually stunning moments. Don't underestimate 
 the game's visuals, they truly are impressive.
  
  Sounds: Gun sounds are a little dull and weak sounding at times, but MG42 fire and artillery/mortars 
 are such a blast you'll jump for cover. Great atmosphereic ambient noises.
  
  Value: Theres great multiplayer and all the difficulty levels will have you going for a long time.
 
  
  Tilt: The best WWII shooter for PC.
  
  Overall: The best WWII experience on the PC to date. As intense as any game can get, and it's lasting 
 value is truly a blast. Also keep a look out for Call of Duty: United Offensive Expansion Pack, 
 and the currently released Call of Duty 2, which doubles the intesity and visually slams the competition. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tejeev
Rating: 9.4
Date: Apr 23, 2005 4:00 pm PT
Review:  The WWII shooter genre is getting highly overcrowded, but Call of Duty stands out as one of the 
 most innovative and outstanding ones to date. The first aspect about Call of Duty that makes it 
 stand out from other WWII shooters is that it makes you play from the perspective of all the three 
 major allies. The game's single player campaign is divided into three different parts, from the 
 view of an American soldier, a British soldier and a Russian soldier. The campaign plays out as 
 one not so long campaign that shifts between the three perspectives. 
  Most of the missions in the games have you playing as part of a team. Though you cannot control 
 your teammates, they are there by your side. Most of the game will have play along side a squad 
 of 5-10 soldiers that will go from room to room and kill all the German soldiers. 
  There are some solo missions as well in the game but majority of the game is focused on team-based 
 play. The other types of missions are the tank missions. In these missions you control a tank and 
 have complete control of the turret and the tank. Though these aren't many in number, they mix 
 up the gameplay a bit. 
  One of the more memorable missions is the first one from the Russian part where you have to recapture 
 Stalingard and all you have with you is four rounds of Ammo and no gun.
  Most of the missions are linear in nature and are covered with minefields on either side of the 
 play area. The sound in the game is absolutely breathtaking. You have to have a good 5.1 surround 
 system to really appreciate the sound of the hundreds of bullets that are whizzing by your sides. 
 The background score is also amazing.
  There is also a good Axis vs Allies multiplayer in the game which only adds to its replay value.
 
  Overall, this is one of the best WWII shooters that are currently out there for the PC. It is 
 a must buy for anyone who is even remotely interested in the Genre. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: maximus_2
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 12, 2005 3:33 pm PT
Review:  This game is soo addicteve.
  This game make you relly feeel that you was ther, that you
  relly fought agenst Germans.
  Evry this soo realistic and addicteve. I spend more time on this
 
  game than any other.
  In this game it made me feel that 
  feeling of band of brothers.
  I didnt wanted this game to end so 
  I played it ony for 60 min a day.
  becouse it soo great 
 and realistic.
  I wish that there will be more games like this one
  Now I cant wait for Call of duty 2
  I wish that it will be even better.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: kliq017
Rating: 9.2
Date: Mar 30, 2005 9:04 pm PT
Review:  Wow, this is a great PC game, over the course of playing and beating Call of Duty, it has become 
 probably, one of my Top Ten games I have played, and I have played a lot. Well, let's get on with 
 the review, shall we. Call of Duty is a FPS set during World War II, it puts you on the side of 
 the Allies, as you battle the German Military. Throughout the game you switch between the American 
 and the Russian Armies, battling all the way through to Berlin, Germany; where the game and history 
 takes a climatic turn and ending. I played the game on the default setting, Regular, so I wouldn't 
 miss anything, and the A. I. would put up a decent fight; and did they ever. The A. I. in this game 
 was good, with the enemy soldiers taking cover and hiding, waiting on the unsuspecting user to 
 make a mistake; they even knew that you were waiting for them, by throwing grenades into that not-so-perfect 
 hiding spot you thought was good. The missions are just about the right length, not too long, not 
 too short; the game is split basically between an American campaign and a Russian campaign; both 
 campaigns were very exciting. The Russian campaign is my favorite hands down, with the campaign 
 starting out just like a scene of Enemy At the Gates, you really feel like the vulnerable soldier 
 being used as a decoy. Overall, this is a great game, if you don't have it or haven't played this 
 game yet, I suggest that you go play Call of Duty right now; don't miss out on a fun and exhilarating 
 experience. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bidybag
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 26, 2005 12:11 am PT
Review:  I know brother in arms has just been released so i thought i would review this. Call of duty is 
 much better than brother in arms. The graphics and sound of this game make it really realistic 
 and fun. The single player is a bit short and you will finish it quick if you have it on an easy 
 setting. Try it on the hardest setting and its too hard which is good because you can work up to 
 that. This was the first real world war shooter game which is much better than all of the medal 
 of honour series. Call of duty have got all the good bits of brother in arms and medal of honour 
 and put them in one game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cloud
Rating: 8.8
Date: Mar 25, 2005 9:08 pm PT
Review:  I really like the mix in this game. The mix between team fighting and when you run through houses 
 all by yourself. I get bored of games where you just run around shooting and nothing else. That's 
 why this game appeals so much to me. You run around shoting in vehicles, maneuvering cannons, classic 
 fps style and more. Graphics is more than sufficient but I have seen better. The quality of these 
 games is not definite with the graphic but more of the style. I prefer game design, idea and atmosphere 
 before graphic and sound. It seems to me that you perform better if Miss Fortuna is with you. Sometimes 
 when you are in the middle of the heat a mortar or a cannon hits you and you have no way to avoid 
 it, cause you can't see it coming. The sound is great but I haven't been able to localise incoming 
 mortars just to listen to the sound. This is a great game and I will play it for many hours yet. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shoot_em_up123
Rating: 9.7
Date: Mar 22, 2005 8:19 pm PT
Review:  My friend and also gamespoter USAPRIDE911 turned me on to this PC game. I downloaded it recently 
 into my computer and it is crazy fun!
  The story is really good and it is not like every WW2 shooter you see. It has a very fun single 
 player mode but pretty much all I do is play online. The graphics in it are great. It looks like 
 you may really be in these places during WW2. Also the sound is great. If you own a headset hook 
 that up and turn it up loud. It will sound liek the bullets are acutually whising by your head. 
 You will get a lot of game time out of this game because of the value coming with it being a big 
 online game.
  It has a unbilevable online play. If you are new to any kind of PC shooter games you may want to 
 beat the single player mode before going online with the hardcore Call of Duty players. The game 
 may lag at the beginning of the online game you can choose what kind of game you want to play before 
 entering the server. The many different games include deathmatch, search and destroy, capture the 
 flag, and my personal favorite team deathmatch. In this kind of game you and a team of how many 
 people in the server just go out as either americans, germans, british, or russian depending on 
 the map you are on, go find the other team and kill all the opposing team and when the time expires 
 the team with the most kills wins. 
  Overall Thoughts: This game is great and is a must for anyone with DSL and a good computer. Also 
 if you are a fan of WW2 you will love this game. The single player is great and it will get ou 
 ready for an unbelivable online experience. But if you are not really into playing online you may 
 be disapointed a little bit by the story. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SadExchange
Rating: 9.1
Date: Mar 22, 2005 8:03 pm PT
Review:  Many World War II first person shooters have been made over the years. Many of them feeling like 
 the next, but sometimes you get that needle in the haystack that shines. Releasing on October 29th 
 of 2003, Call of Duty showed players what World War II was really like. Infinity Ward knew it had 
 to make its game different from the rest of the genre, and it succeeded by giving the player the 
 opportunity of playing in a group during the single player missions. No, not multiplayer co-op, 
 but computer players that would fight alongside of your own soldier because everyone knows that 
 World War II wasnt won by just one man, but many.
  
  World War II has always been a winner for first person shooter developers with many games showing 
 distinct sides of the different nations that participated in the war, but no other game comes close 
 to showing the team effort of the soldiers than in Call of Duty. Through four campaigns, the 
 player will play as a United States Soldier, a British Soldier, and a Russian Solider. After spending 
 time in these three linear campaigns, youll be given a mission as each of them to round off the 
 25 total missions. Not once through all these missions will the enemy let up. As you progress through 
 the campaigns whether youre an American with your fellow soldiers at your back, or a Russian sniper 
 trying to pick off that lonely Nazi up in the third floor of the building across the courtyard, 
 youll be the target of your enemies guns. The pacing of this game is done quite well with each 
 mission flowing into the next and each mission having purpose. As an Allied Soldier, youll mostly 
 be running and gunning down your enemies, but every once in a while, youll have to hold down a 
 position until the reinforcements show up and these missions are the ones where youll have to 
 show some skill and bring a little luck along with. When playing with the difficulty on the higher 
 levels, enemies just dont seem to stop coming, but this helps you use strategy with saving your 
 bullets and taking aim more at your enemies instead of going blind around every corner. There wasnt 
 an endless supply of bullets during World War II and Call of Duty really gives the player the sense 
 of that feeling.
  
  There are a multitude of weapons that your soldier can pick up during the single player and multiplayer 
 experience of Call of Duty. Each nation has their own specific weapons that are historically accurate 
 and this only makes the game that much more real. Weapons include the Colt .45, Thompson, Browning 
 Automatic Rifle, Springfield and those are for the Americans. There are Lee-Enfields, Stens, and 
 Bren LMGs for the British. And the Russians have a PPSh (a very inaccurate weapon) , a Mosin-Nagant, 
 and also a scoped Mosin-Nagant. All these weapons have their strengths and weaknesses and on the 
 field of battle is where youll test them out and learn how to take out your enemy most effectively. 
 And believe me, in multiplayer, youll need to learn quick.
  
  The graphics engine for Call of Duty is the Quake III engine, which by now is getting up in age, 
 but Call of Duty absolutely shines with the engine. The environments in the game have been beautifully 
 rendered by the developers and everything in the game seems real life when youre in the thick 
 of a massive gun battle between your fellow soldiers and the enemies. Youll be fighting across 
 many different terrains during the course of the four campaigns and each setting looks great with 
 the Quake III engine. And the engine seems very well optimized to hold all the soldiers on the 
 screen at once. Especially in multiplayer action where 32 players can be going at each other all 
 at one time. The distance draw in the game for snipers is great and youll be able to pick off 
 enemy snipers from well over a hundred yards away. 
  
  The sound in the game is great also. With your headphones on, youll be hearing bullets whip past 
 your face left and right as you try to advance on the enemy. A realistic feature put into Call 
 of Duty is the grenade explosions. If your solider is too close to the explosion of a grenade, 
 they go deaf for awhile hearing just a low hum, while your reactions are slowed to almost a stand 
 still. After a while the deafness goes away and youre able to move around normally, but its just 
 an added feature that Infinity Ward placed in their game to distinguish it from the other World 
 War II first person shooters. A small touch, but a nice realistic touch. Although some of the sounds 
 of the guns and tanks may be recycled from other games, the overall sound of Call of Duty was done 
 well. 
  
  Although there are 25 missions within Call of Duty, the game will go pretty fast. On the first 
 time through, the game usually takes approximately 10 or so hours to beat. Each mission is linear 
 and you usually know where to go, but there are so many different ways to kill your enemies whether 
 you want to flank them from the side or try to snipe them from far away. If youve run through 
 the game on an easier setting, stepping the difficulty up a notch will definitely provide more 
 intense fun the second and even third time through.
  
  With an intense single player, you would think that the multiplayer would have been weak, but thats 
 where Infinity Ward surprises their fans and community. The different types of multiplayer are 
 all equally fun and challenging. There are five different types of multiplayer including deathmatch, 
 team deathmatch, retrieval, search and destroy, and behind enemy lines. If you thought the single 
 player was intense, youll have fun playing through each type of multiplayer with 31 other human 
 players who have a better thinking process than most A. I. from any games. Call of Duty ships with 
 12 different multiplayer maps and the fan community, by now, has made a lot more quality maps that 
 you can have hours of fun on whether youre at a lan party or just online with others. 
  
  In short, Call of Duty is a game that all World War II junkies should play and also any fan of 
 first person shooters should pick up. Easily one of the most intense, fun filled World War II games 
 of its time, Call of Duty outshines all others of its genre in single player and multiplayer. Although 
 its a shorter first person shooter, Call of Duty will provide hours upon hours of entertainment 
 through its realistic situations of the single player and the intense action of the multiplayer 
 while you play head to head with 31 other players across the internet.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: 19734739732876576485538515389630-elLOCOmutha
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 21, 2005 6:29 am PT
Review:  This game from the opening scenes to the final has kept me on the edge of my seat and wanting more 
 MORE MORE!!!!!!
  The price for CoD is awesome... if I just got singleplayer it would be a bargain.
  People might 
 argue its just a run and gun game but to them I say BAH!!
  This game has run and gun, tactics and everything wrapped in one. Some may argue that its outdated 
 and wont stand up to BIA but also I say this game has staying power and will give you hours of 
 entertainment well after you hve done the singleplayer.
  CoD is a classic just like MOHAA was and is but BIA will not be I can see it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dadafeig
Rating: 9.1
Date: Mar 13, 2005 11:37 am PT
Review:  WWII games have been getting repetitive lately so we need a good new shooter and thankefully Call 
 of duty came along. To start the story line is very fun and addicting and very game is very noobie 
 friendly with the great training session. It lets you first play as the american then the germans 
 then the russians. This is very fun and gives you a look at the german and russian sides of the 
 war that are rarely seen in video games. But imo the real meat is in the multiplayer. The maps 
 are balanced very well and there are lots of different game modes ranging from Deathmatch to search 
 and destroy which is teambased. The action is very intense and the weapons are extremely balanced. 
 Speaking of the weapons the sounds the weapons make are flawless and really put you in the feel 
 of the battle along with the great graphics just make the experience even better. All in all Call 
 of Duty is an extremely addicting game that even if you are tireing of WWII shooters is a game 
 you should pick up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Fakespy
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 13, 2005 3:04 am PT
Review:  This is probably one of the finest example of World War 2 games out on the market. The realism 
 is amazing and the game play is incredible. Its story is linear and very well laid out. The levels 
 are very fun to play and the enemy AI is very intelligent: they take cover, throw grenades to take 
 out groups of your troops and they target your AI teammates not just you. Your teammates are somewhat 
 intelligent, they will do different maneuvers and flanking but they can also be really dumb. For 
 example one guy I saw ran into a wall and just kept running and got shot. It also wouldve been 
 nice if you could order allies to help or do something specific like SOCOM but thats just wishful 
 thinking. The game can be slow to load and the frame rate can also be slow but overall it is a 
 very well made game. 
  
  
  
  Overall Gameplay: Great gameplay. The immersion level is insanely well done. The two problems I 
 have is the occasional idiot getting himself shot and the inablity to order some of your allies 
 to help you with a specific task. 8/10
  
  Overall Graphics: Very Good Graphics. This really depends on the computer you have. On my computer 
 the graphics were the best I've ever seen. But my computer's a piece of crap graphics wise so I 
 really can't tell you if the graphics are truly superior to anything else out there. 8/10
  
  Overall Sound: This is were Call of Duty shines. The sound is the main thing that makes this 
 game so great. The quality is perfect. This, more they anything else, makes you feel like your 
 actually in the battles you're fighting. 10/10
  
  Overall Value: Great value. At the time of this review being wrote Call of Duty is about a year 
 or so old and therefore the price has dropped considerably from the original price. If you haven't 
 already, I urge you to pick up Call of Duty. 9/10
  
  Reviewer's Tilt: This in my opinion is the best World War 2 game out there. I stress to you again, 
 PICK IT UP!!!! 10/10
  
  Overall Score: 9/10
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: KansasFF
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 12, 2005 6:43 pm PT
Review:  The game has a great overall feel. The teamwork and environment is amazing and fun to watch. Sometimes 
 I grew frustrated trying to beat some of the missions, but that is what makes the game so fun. 
 The multiplayer is awsome also. I enjoy search and destroy and am always up for a few hours of 
 playing with my buddies! Make sure that you have a pretty decent system (meet minimum requirements) 
 so you can enjoy the great architecture. If you love world war II and would like to see a piece 
 of history, I reccomend this game. A++++ Get this game if you enjoy first person shooters. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: squeezy_E
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 6, 2005 3:42 pm PT
Review:  It seems that WWII is the theme for most war games. Why shouldn't it be? It had many large scale 
 battles, such as D-Day, The invasion of Normandy, known as Market Garden, and the battle of Dunkirk. 
 Eventhough most games, such as MoH AA have displayed most of these battles, only CoD could deliver 
 them so dramatically. What really signifies CoD as the best WWII shooter of this era is the overall 
 feel of intensity you get when you play it. No other game has ever made me literally jump out of 
 my seat when I saw a huge Tiger tank rolling my way. The way it cracks and screeches, the way your 
 fellow comrades retreat as they see it, every single aspect of war is captured brilliantly in this 
 game. 
  
  
  Gameplay: This game is as smooth and simple to play as the Console version of Halo: Combat Evolved. 
 You move around at a decent pace, not to slow, but not to quickly. There is no option to move slowly, 
 such as in BF1942, but its alirght, it doesn't detract from the overall experience. Whats really 
 great about CoD's gameplay is the leaning feature. Eventhough it isn't totally original, it is 
 highly effective and implemented well.
  You press either the Q key or the E key to lean, and this is effective mainly because it reduces 
 your chances of getting shot in combat. For instance, lets say your in a room, and there are a 
 couple of Nazi chaps hiding not making a noise, well, if you lean, you could see them without toally 
 giving away your position, so just in case things get to violent, just let go of the lean key and 
 you'll be safe and covered. Also, something thats great, eventhough it doesn't sound like it, is 
 the fact that you dont have to control your squadmates. Mainly because there is no need to. Your 
 squadmates are as smart as a Harvard graduate. They lean, throw grenades, signal you, and even 
 scream orders out. You don't have control of them, but it is better that way. If you did have control, 
 than you would have to position them, give them orders, and give key commands. It would detract 
 from the experience, making the game slower. As for the enemy A. I, they are smart as ever aswell. 
 They flank you, shove grenades, and even retreat when they see you overpower them. To put it simply, 
 gameplay is simply topnotch.
  
  Graphics: CoD's graphics are nothing short of impressive. Facial expressions, bullet holes in walls, 
 and even blood graphics are some of the small treats that CoD's graphics give. CoD's graphics aren't 
 the best in the P. C., but they are still above average. I can't recall seeing any technical glitches 
 while playing. The only real complaint are the corpses, they can sometimes appear through walls 
 and the such. But then again, it never gets really nasty, so it doesn't detract from the experience. 
 Another great thing about CoD's graphics are the weapon and bullet effects. Ripping away with an 
 MG42 fixed Machine gun never looked so good! Once again, another thing that CoD does is nearly 
 flawless.
  
  Sound: This is the part that CoD really shines. Bullets whizzing, squadmates screaming, tanks crushing 
 through pavement, so many things at once really give you the feeling that you are at war. What 
 really makes CoD dramatic is the way it manages to implement the perfect dramatic score for a large 
 scale battle. For instance, to retake square, when you are playing as a Russian, they put this 
 very dramatic, almost sad, score. When you hear it, and see your comrades falling right before 
 you, you know this game is excellent. Your squadmates all scream orders and warnings at you, such 
 as *Martin! get the hell outta the way! Theres a tank coming!* The bullets are definitly in a league 
 of there own. No words can describe the fear of a sniper bullet whizzing through your ear, your 
 heart will simply pound. Are you really surprised? This is another thing CoD does to perfection.
 
  
  
  I hope that my review has given you the details of CoD that you've wanted. This game is definitly 
 a good buy, you dont need a high-end PC either. I run it on my Sony Vaio, with 3.0 ghz, all you 
 need is a decent video card and your good to go. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: -Hans-
Rating: 9.6
Date: Mar 1, 2005 12:33 pm PT
Review:  Call of Duty does what many fps can't. It has a great single player, awesome story, and a multiplayer 
 that never seems to get boring. It is set in WWII and takes you through the war in Europe.
  
  Gameplay
  
  You play through three campaigns. American, British, and Russian. Each campaign 
 has its own feel to it. The Russians seem to have some of the better missions, while the British 
 tend to get the boring ones. One of the bad things about the single player is that it is all scripted. 
 That means that you will probably get only one or two plays without getting bored. Every enemy 
 is in the same place. The multiplayer is what saves this game. There are plenty of maps and gametypes 
 to choose from. Once you do join a game you can either be the Axis (Germans) or the allies (American, 
 British, Russian) which differs with each map. This time it seems that the American vs. German 
 maps are the fun ones. They seem to have the most similar weapons which makes it balanced. The 
 Russians lack a machine gun, and the British guns just dont feel right. Their smg is too weak, 
 and their mg is very powerful (but the reloads are long) . Overall Call of Duty is easily the best 
 WWII shooter as of now.
  
  Graphics
  
  The graphics are pretty good. It doesn't take a super computer to run it, so many people can enjoy 
 this game. The amount of detail is pretty good. With maxed out settings you can see and hear each 
 shell hit the ground. 
  
  Sound
  
  The sound is also quite good. From the background music to the firing of the guns, all is superb. 
 The explosions and voice commands are all done pretty well, but not as good as the other things.
 
  
  Value
  
  Lots of value in the multiplayer, and the community is sure to help out as well. Whether it be 
 making new maps, or total conversions. Well, maybe one total conversion... Apparently IW and GM 
 don't like to help modders. Oh well. But even without all those community extras the multiplayer 
 is sure to keep you occupied for quite a while.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Everclearules
Rating: 8.6
Date: Feb 28, 2005 6:54 pm PT
Review:  After playing both demos for Call of Duty, I was considerably impressed. A great looking game that 
 is actually playable on my machine always gets me excited, but the fact this one is fun too made 
 me want to go out and buy the game. Upon finnaly playing the full game though, I just didn't have 
 the fun I had with the demos. 
  
  The demo had me gripped right from the beginning, and didn't release me until I was back at the 
 main menu screen after a sucessful mission. Unfortunantly that type of gameplay didn't carry over 
 to the other missions throughout the game. Many of the missions annoyed me to no end, and the missions 
 that could have been fun were ruined since I was annoyed with the previous mission. 
  
  One of the things I was mainly annoyed with was the lack of direction. The demo nearly dictated 
 your actions so you always knew what you were doing and where to go. In the full game I spent most 
 of my time trying to find the right path to a location marked on a map, or desperatly trying to 
 find someone I'm supposed to talk to while I'm getting shot at from 3 or 4 directions, or waiting 
 for the leader to start leading, etc... 
  
  Many of the missions had really good ideas behind them, but it stopped there. I can't quite put 
 my finger on it, but many of the missions were just boring or tedious. The British Commando missions 
 were the ones that really annoyed me. The team-based aspect is what truly makes this game fun, 
 and was the reason why I absolutely hated those missions. Fortunantly, the last few levels of the 
 game are actually pretty fun, so after you finish the game you're atleast satisfied. 
  
  The game could have been truly amazing for me, but many of the missions were just not up to par 
 with others which REALLY detracted from my enjoyment of the game. In the end, I'd recommend getting 
 it just because some of the missions are just that much fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mrwiggles11
Rating: 9.4
Date: Feb 20, 2005 3:04 am PT
Review:  
  This game delivers on all cylinders. Call of Duty is a success no matter which way you look at 
 it. Sure some Medal of Honor Allied Assault fans will argue that it is just a nicer looking graphical 
 experience but Call of Duty is all that and some. The action in Call of Duty is amazing. You find 
 yourself on the tail of MP40 lead bullets during the whole game. There are snipers lurking at various 
 locations and sometimes are hard to find. The game AI is pretty well done. The game is very difficult 
 on the highest level and in fact, it is utterly unbeatable on this setting. When you play this 
 game it would be better for you to stand rather then sit on your chair. The game is jam-packed 
 with tones of action sequences and it is due to this that you wont need anything to sit on since 
 youll find yourself standing up at many exciting points in the game. Fun, is a word widely used 
 in the English language. Call of Duty is the exact definition of fun. If you enjoy first-person 
 shooters, even if you do not like the World War II setting, you must play this game! Storming German 
 lines at various locations and running the Nazis out of Stalingrad leaves you feeling like a hero 
 or heroine. The game brings you right into the driver seat. It is you against them. You fear death 
 and you fight with all you have until you run out of ammo or spirit.
  
  The single-player mode is highly addictive and it leads you to a wide variety of German locations 
 to infiltrate alone or with a team. Call of Duty points a larger emphasis towards team-work then 
 single bravery. You will find yourself driving tanks, fighting through dense forests and rushing 
 the capital city of Berlin with your Russian comrades. You will not stop until the flag of the 
 allies has been raised over the German parliament building. The rise of the flag is the sign of 
 victory and accomplishment. The game actually leaves you feeling proud that you were part of this 
 massive onslaught against a racial and militaristic evil. If a game leaves a lasting impression 
 on you then this means that it is a classic. Call of Duty is the best World War II shooter ever. 
 Its accumulation of action, excitement, tension and immersion leaves you feeling successful and 
 totally connected to the fight against fascism. 
  
  Call of Duty is a game open to all sorts of video gamers. If you are a novice first-person shooter 
 and you stick to the greenhorn difficulty level you will just as anyone else feel accomplishment 
 run through you at the end of the game. The game can be played at various paces. Either you go 
 along with the action and run through fields and corridors of exploding grenades or you can hang 
 back until the explosions cease and you feel safe to explore the destruction that has been delivered 
 to the landscapes and buildings. 
  
  The game is such an immersive experience that you will probably finish the game in one or two days 
 of action. You will find that you are playing the game way too much than you intended. Many people 
 claim that the game is to short but I believe that it is just right. If you actually had other 
 obligations to do and could only play Call of Duty when you had free time you would actually find 
 the game just as immersive and longer then your hour-sucking friends. The game is action packed 
 to the thrilling finish and no matter what your pace; you will find the game has left an impact 
 on your impression of PC first-person shooters 
  
  Call of Duty Finest Hour, is an adaptation of the PC version on the consoles. This version is terrible 
 compared to the PC legislator. If you have played the console versions of Call of Duty and are 
 sincerely skeptical about the PC original version of the game I do not blame you. However, I want 
 to make this clear, the PC version of the game is almost perfect and you will not find any similarities 
 in gameplay, action or fun between these two copies. 
  
  Call of Duty comes with a thrilling multiplayer mode which will be played for many hours to come. 
 The online function has players of a variety of skill levels and gaming faculties. Call of Duty 
 offers tones of online game types like: death-match, team death-match, domination, capture the 
 flag, base assault and head quarters. A nice invention of the online component is the "kill-cam". 
 After you have been totally exterminated by your enemy, you are able to see "through their eyes" 
 what they saw before they killed you. This is real cool and innovative function. It helps you spot 
 those wretched campers and deliver their demise. It also shows you how silly you looked trying 
 your hardest to fight back against the uncoming barrage of lead. The game is a lot of fun if you 
 play by yourself online, or if you play with a bunch of friends on a Team-speak or Ventrilo communication 
 system. The online portion is also very fun and is quite addictive. You will find yourself playing 
 for a couple more hours than you had intended to. There are many maps; the maps range from close-quarter 
 battles, mid-range firefights and camping rifle dream worlds (Pavlov) . The online function is 
 a lot of fun if you are a fan of online first-person shooters. Many modifications and customizations 
 have been made to the online portion by various community groups to a high degree of success.
 
  
  The gameplay is very simple to control and will leave you an expert first-person shooter at the 
 end of the experience. The mouse and keyboard system is perfect for the game. You can crouch, crawl, 
 jump and strafe your way through enemy battlefields while you avoid shearing bullets of leadtastic 
 fury. The controls are very simple and easy to remember so do not worry if you are not a good keyboard 
 gamer. The cross-hair is not static, rather it is dynamic. This means that the crosshair will either 
 get bigger or smaller depending on your position or the weapon that you are holding. Weapons have 
 various qualities; some are good at mobility, others at accuracy and others are good at power. 
 Each weapon has its own pluses and minuses.
  
  The graphics in Call of Duty are very well done. The locations look pretty realistic and the game 
 can run at higher resolutions on lower end 128MB video cards. The games visual settings can be 
 adjusted and once you have attained your perfect setting, you will find that the game rarely, if 
 ever, slows down or crashes. The soldiers look very realistic and so do the weapons. The sky and 
 battlefields, with their destroyed cars and demolished buildings, run an eerie destructive sense 
 of what war leaves on everlasting cities and souls. 
  
  The sound in Call of Duty is perfect. The game brings you into the territory and makes you feel 
 like you are hearing shells cracking, bombs dropping, lead firing and tanks rushing right at your 
 computer seat. Everything sounds realistic and the game is very loud. When I say very loud, I mean 
 that if you turn your speaker volume down the game can be heard for long distances. Each weapon 
 has its own unique sound and recoil factor. The battlefields carry a host of sounds and noises 
 which at times can scare you into thinking you are dead. Both the allies and axis speak during 
 the game and speak clearly in their respective languages. I will restate the first sentence of 
 this paragraph; the sound in Call of Duty is perfect.
  
  Call of Duty is a lot of fun to play. It is definitely a buyable game. It has won many game of 
 the year awards and this is only one proof of the popularity and success of the game. However, 
 the only way to see that this game is amazing is to play it yourself. This game still holds up 
 as one of the most online played games on Gamespy. The game came out a couple years back and it 
 still delivers a destructive force on the European battlefront. Call of Duty is jam-packed with 
 action and excitement right to the very end. The game will probably be re-played by 50% of its 
 gamers. The other 50% of the players will end up massacring the European battlefields in the online 
 component. Call of Duty is a great representation of the World War II theme. It delivers gut-wrenching 
 battles and is playable by many people. The game is very simple to play and this is another testament 
 of its impossible extinction. Call of Duty becomes the base of all World War II shooters. All future 
 games that deal with this theater must look at Call of Duty and somehow surpass the quality, fun, 
 ingenuity and success of this phenomenal title. Call of Duty is the best World War II interpretation 
 into the video game world. The fires and flames of our humanitys history will never be extinguished 
 as long as this game exists.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: yoyo33
Rating: 9.1
Date: Feb 11, 2005 4:00 pm PT
Review:  Call of Duty is not just any old world war II Game. If you've played Medal of Honor there will 
 be no problem adapting to this game play. They are identical, almost. The significant differences 
 to me would be aiming, prone position, and teamwork. When aiming your weapon your pointer has no 
 center in the crosshirs. When you stand still they are close together, and when you move your crosshairs 
 more apart making it difficult to aim while moving. This added bit of difficultly makes you more 
 leary of running into a room with barrels blazing. More tactical approaches must be taken. To compensate 
 for the difficuly while moving and aiming your are able to look down the barrel of your gun. When 
 doing this you no longer use cross hairs you use the end of your barrel as your pointer. This lets 
 you get the most accurate sighting of your enmy however you move very slow. Along with aiming sniping 
 comes to mind. When zoomed in your crosshirs move ever so slightly making in slightly harder. You 
 must take into consideration the movement into your aiming. My favorite part of CoD is the ability 
 to go prone. You are not able to go prone in MOD. It is just one of those small things that makes 
 it that much better. Teamwork is what CoD is all about. You are hardly on your own. You always 
 are with your team or in touch with your team someway. This play into the tactical part of the 
 game as well. Overall COD is a great game seveal difficulty levels give it replay ability several 
 times. Enjoy this game to its fullest. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PhoenixDeath
Rating: 9.7
Date: Feb 8, 2005 8:00 pm PT
Review:  I played a lot of games but this one is one of the best. great graphics and nice multiplayer. the 
 singelplayer is about 10 hours long a bit dissapointing i think but the action is really good espacialy 
 the mission in stalingrad.. if you have a 5:1 surround set you just feel if your right in the middle 
 of it. The multiplayer is really awesome i played it really much. however the new players have 
 to train a bit because there are really pros in this game. im a pro ofcourse :) but anyway its 
 really worth your money and if you still dont have a copy i should still run to the store and buy 
 one, the graphics are getting a liittle outdated but the thrill is still very good. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jtamimi1
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 7, 2005 8:31 pm PT
Review:  this game is one of the best atmospheric games i've ever played ( if you know what i mean) , this 
 game really puts you in WW2 , first i thought this game would be another WW2 FPS , but once you 
 start playing the game you'r really captured by the excellent game design and enviroment , it' 
 one of the few logical games i've seen in a long time , the sounds , the graphics ,every thing 
 , even your team mates are clever enough to make the game amazingly playable , not like other team-based 
 FPS your team mates ain't a total lag .
  
  one of the best episodes of the game to me is that when you start playing in the russian side , 
 the first level there is really amazing and totally realistic .
  
  if you are tired of silly FPSs grab this one and you won't be dissapointed at all .
  
  Really 
 looking forward to play the expansion CoD : UO . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Madhjo
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 6, 2005 10:34 am PT
Review:  When I first heard about the game, I did not expect anything spectacular.... common, the name "Call 
 of Duty" does not sound very unique or exciting, but after playing the game.... my mind had been 
 changed. After going through training I was surprised by the nice graphics and smooth sound effects, 
 but after starting the campaign I was just blown away. The game-play is simply breath taking, the 
 atmosphere is as realistic as it can get and it's just super much fun. The missions are very challenging 
 and the game does not get repetitive at all. Although the single-player campaign could have been 
 longer, it was still very enjoyable.
  The multi-player part of the game is as amazing as the single-player part. The game is fast paced, 
 but also needs some clever tactics. The maps are cool and the weapons are just plain fun to use. The 
 hole community of Call of Duty is just super, everyone who has played the game won't say anything 
 but positive about it.
  If you have not played Call of Duty before, you should definitely get it or you will miss a piece 
 of gaming at it's best. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: codgamer2004
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 5, 2005 8:32 pm PT
Review:  This, I must say, will always be in my gaming collection. I am very big on WWII games, and this 
 one, just plain impressed me. I could pop this in any time and have fun. The graphics and next 
 gen or anything, but they are good enough. The sound is stunning. You can really feel like you 
 are there. Multi player is awsome, for a lonnng time. i would have to say, the only downside of 
 this game, and i meen ONLY, is the ai. Many times your guys get killed when they definatly didnt 
 need to. But this didnt, at all, stop the game from being amazing. If you are wondering about this 
 game, then get it. i gaurantee it will always be a part of you collection. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mclazyj
Rating: 9.4
Date: Feb 2, 2005 8:57 am PT
Review:  Call of Duty is a rare game in that it does everything almost perfect. From the opening movie right 
 through to the closing credits, it gets just about everything right. I personally have never been 
 so immersed and enthralled by a game in recent memory.
  
  Call of Duty plays out differently in that you play from all sides of the allied faction. You start 
 with the Americans as part of the 101st Airborne. Once completed, you move on to the British campaign 
 and finally the Russians. Infinity Ward has created missions that have a point and that require 
 you using your squadmates instead of being a one-man army. Also, they have captured a distinct 
 flavor between the three sides of the conflict. The Americans seem very cocky and confident, but 
 flying by the seats of their pants. The British seem very cool and collective, never losing the 
 famous British poise no matter what the situation. With the Russian missions, you can see the dispair 
 and misery on all of your squadmates. The opening sequence on the boatride into Stalingrad, you 
 look around and there is nothing but misery in the face of everyone on the boat.
  
  The missions are well designed and are logically designed. There are no missions that feel like 
 they are out of place. The AI of the enemy is very good and they do know how to flank and duck 
 and cover quite effectively. There were no stutters or hiccups in the graphics on my computer and 
 never once did I experience a crash to the desktop.
  
  Graphically, the game is quite stunning. The character models feel very real and you do tend to 
 get attached to your squadmates due to the realism. The vehicles and landscapes are all quite lush 
 and will have you staring at times due to the polish. Sound is also excellent. The gunfire, explosions 
 and idle chatter is all perfect. I would say that the game has some of the best sounds going in 
 PC gaming right now. When you hear the music creshedo at the end mission as you charge central 
 Berlin, you will feel a twinge on the heart as it is a moving sequence made even more touching 
 by the music. The movie footage is also quite good and gives you a good historical footing if you 
 are a bit unfamiliar with WW2 historically.
  
  The main campaign will keep most busy for about 10-15 hours. And after that, there is the extensive 
 multiplayer community. The maps are varied and the players seem to abide by good online etiquette. 
 This is a great game to play online if you are tired of all the l337 people in CounterStrike. The 
 players seem to genuinely like the WW2 era of games.
  
  All in all, this game is absolutely amazing. Beyond some slight issues with pinpoint sharpshooters 
 and some missions that were a bit too grueling, I highly recommend this game to all players. You 
 will be thrilled with the experience. And you can pick the game up for under $20 now, there is 
 no reason not to play it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 75thDeadMan
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 30, 2005 12:26 am PT
Review:  If you've played first person shooters within the last five years you know the name "Medal Of Honor: 
 Allied Assault", one of the greatest shooters ever, and possibly greatest World War II game, untill 
 now that is. Enter Call of Duty.
  
  While developed by Infinity Ward Call of Duty was made by the same team who brought us MOHAA which 
 is why it retains so much of its goodness. Call of Duty puts you in the shoes of an American, British, 
 and Russian soldier to fight against the Nazis and end world war two. The key thing that Infinity 
 Ward wanted to do was make the single player very team based and not use the traditional "one man 
 army" that most shooters use. The succeded at this with flying colors.
  
  Call of Duty really makes you care about your squad, which no other game has ever truly done, because 
 if one dies it will make the mission that much harder for you. The missions are varied and stylish 
 and each campaign has its own special feel, so the game rarely feels repetitive. For example the 
 American campaign makes you feel like you are in a band of brothers gunning it out for freedom. 
 The British gives you a little more of a stealthish spy feel winning the war through information, 
 not battles. Finally the Russian campaign makes you feel like your one lonely Russian in a sea 
 of soldiers. The single player is easy enough for newbies and hard enough for the pros so no matter 
 who you are this game is right for you.
  
  After your done fighting the single player war its time to move onto the multiplayer. There are 
 several modes you can play such as deathmatch, team deathmatch, search and destroy, retrieval, 
 and POW. All are fun and fairly balanced and its still manages to maintain its fun nearly a year 
 after the game was released. The multiplayer is a little more fun if your in a clan or play with 
 buddies since you can have you own little squad to gang up on people, but going out solo in multiplayer 
 is still fun non the less.
  
  The graphics are great seeing how the Quake III engine it is built in is over five years old. It 
 runs solid even on computers that are below average and its not super gory for those of you that 
 are queasy. The sound is unbelievable and you can see that they really made a stretch to raise 
 the bar and make the sound higher than all games on the market.
  
  I have very few complaints about COD. Like many games, it is a little unrealistic, but unless your 
 into hardcore realism, you can deal with it. Also the multiplayer maps feel very similar and don't 
 have that much variation. Luckily there are plenty of custom maps to download. There is also a 
 lot of scripting in single player which, while cool, is overused just a little bit. Finally the 
 mod community is very poor in a game with such a flexible engine. Aside from these three things 
 the game is at the top of its class.
  
  Call of duty is one of the few game where its single player out preforms its multiplayer and should 
 be bought by anyone who enjoys a good shooter. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: S7ATER
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jan 27, 2005 12:21 am PT
Review:  If you enjoy running across debri, explosive mines, bullet trails, shooting people to death, and 
 love WW2 then this game is for you. The game has a great selection of some of the great guns of 
 the 1940's. This game makes you try to listen to your AI commanders, think on your toes, and the 
 greatest part is the AI actually helps you and dosn't just stand there to look pretty for you. 
 But this game isn't for the kind of people that look in a hallway and take there huge machine guns 
 and start blasting at anything that moves. Graphics are awesome, and the sound of the explosions 
 makes you have a real hands on experience as if you were really the soldiers of the aliied forces. 
 The multiplayer is just as great as the campaign if not better. To find a server is very easy, 
 all you do is click multiplayer and connect and your in a huge list of people to play again. Filters 
 work great with the game, and to interact with all those people that enjoy this game as much as 
 you do is a great feeling. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Razzi
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jan 17, 2005 9:15 am PT
Review:  mmm this game is just the best fps that exists. Its better than the united offencive expansion 
 pack, the tanks just did the game muche more battlefield like and thats bad.
  Battle fiel got so bad infantry combat and i think that a fps game just don need viecles and planes.
 
  
  The gameplay is awesome and you just cant get tired of it.
  The graphics is well not super but it is good enough. When a is that good the graphics dosent mather 
 so much.
  
  The sound is good but not perfect.
  
  I think that they shoul release more patches!!
  
  
  
  
  Well i cant think of anything 
 more to write but there is a minimum length so i must write some more words.
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: -r4mZ-
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 8, 2005 10:15 am PT
Review:  Id never really considered buying this game before now since I already played what most people 
 consider the best World War 2 FP; Medal of Honour: Allied Assault, but now that I have played through 
 it I must say that the overall quality of Call of Duty matches it in most aspects and even manages 
 to do better in others.
  
  The first thing that struck me about CoD is the sheer brutality and rawness of the battles youre 
 thrown into all through the game. This is definitely the games strongest aspect since youre really 
 given a sense of what it was really like to fight in the war. I thought the Omaha Beach level was 
 amazing in Allied Assault, but the Stalingrad siege in CoD is probably better than that and it 
 really sticks out as one of the games highlights. 
  
  The variety of scenarios you play in the game is also worth noting since youre placed in the shoes 
 of American, British and Russian soldiers, and each one provides a different experience. The British 
 and American missions provide a sense of teamwork since youre usually part of a team working towards 
 the mission goal, while the Russian campaign is mostly a one man against the world type of thing. 
 Youre also put through the experience of fearing being shot at by your own superiors for retreating 
 as well as commandeering a tank against the Nazi Panzer elite.
  
  The visual and audio presentation of Call of Duty is also excellent. Between missions youre shown 
 quotes from various people associated with the ware, which helps add to the games war-is-horrible 
 feel and respect for the true fighters of the war. The graphics in-game look slightly dated today, 
 but the quality of the game really manages to shine through its graphical shortcoming. The audio 
 effects are also very well choreographed, with music kicking in at the right time and the constant 
 sounds of battle; aircraft, bombs, machine guns and even screams of pain are all used to full effect 
 to create the feeling of war that youd expect in such horrible situations. 
  
  The main shortcoming of the game is that it really is quite short in terms of length. This does 
 mean that you encounter absolutely no filler in the whole game, and it doesnt really feel so short 
 since the whole experience is so intense, but at only about 10 hours long it might be disappointing 
 to some. Id suggest buying the Deluxe Edition, which basically means youll get the United Offensive 
 expansion pack bundled with the original game.
  In conclusion, I think Call of Duty matches Allied Assault in almost every way as the best World 
 War 2 FPS available, and even 2 whole years after its release its a great game to play.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mp5slipknot
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jan 8, 2005 9:03 am PT
Review:  This is without a doubt, one of the best games I have ever played. This is one of those games where 
 you will never forget what its like to play it. The single player is awesome, the multiplayer is 
 loads of fun, and it is also one of the most intense games I have ever played. This gives such 
 a true feel both militarily and historically of the World War II conflict.
  
  GAMEPLAY: This game has everything you want in an FPS. The level design and scripting is great, 
 combat is fun and intense, and it just gives such a unique feel that most other FPSs dont give. 
 In addition, the multiplayer is loads of fun. Theres several modes to play from that include the 
 usual Deathmatch, Team Deathmatch, and CTF, but along with several others.
  
  GRAPHICS: Graphically this game is amazing. The atmosphere sets an amazing feel for the game setting, 
 especially when you get into the russian campaign. I tell you, nothing has ever given me such an 
 intense feel in a game then when I was charging up the Stalingrad beach with guns blazing all around 
 me, but I'll cover that more in value. The weapons look great, the characters look great especially 
 their facial expressions, and the overall look is simply amazing.
  
  SOUNDS: This game has great, great sounds in it. Every gun has its own sound, the ambiance is great, 
 and music is wonderful, and the voice acting is great too. This game just provides such amazing 
 ear candy, that you will actually want to get every song from the game cause its just that good.
 
  
  VALUE: The game runs on the Quake 3 engine, an engine I am personally quite fond of. Thusly, this 
 game has very little bugs other then maybe a few minor ones here and there. The A. I. in the game 
 in the game is very well done. While you cant really command your comrades, they really do prove 
 a vital part of your survival. Your best chances for survival are when your fighting along side 
 allies. The only real downside to the game is that its pretty short, in that it has about maybe 
 10 or 11 hours of gameplay, as I was able to beat it in one day (Well, concidering I couldn't stop 
 playing it that is  _ )
  
  OVERALL: This is a game that shows that First Person Shooters still can make a great impression 
 and provice a unqiue experince that you will never forget. This is simply the game you HAVE to 
 buy and play, because it is just that great. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Fahrenheit1221
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 5, 2005 2:30 am PT
Review:  Call of Duty was the last good World War II shooter before things started going downhill. The game 
 is pretty good featuring some new innovations to a WWII shooter. Some of the new innovations including 
 different campaigns, the blurry distortion effect and going prone. These are all small but important 
 little features that make the experience oh-so real and more importantly these are features that 
 Medal of Honor: Allied Assault did not have.
  
  When judging WWII shooters I tend to set Medal of Honor: Allied Assault at the top... and compare 
 and contrast from there. I find Allied Assault to be the best WWII shooter to date but that doesn't 
 mean this game isn't any good. It is just a little too "deja-vu" considering it was released shortly 
 after the Allied Assault series started on PC. As I mentioned before there is some new features 
 that make the experience more emmersive.
  
  There are several interesting features, some I mentioned before and others I have yet to mention. 
 The aiming system is quite versatile, the motion blur when an explosion hits nearby, the ability 
 to go prone and the new weapons left out by Medal of Honor: Allied Assault.
  
  The single-player campaign covers the lives of three soldiers with different backgrounds, nationality, 
 etc. First you play as an American paratrooper from the 101st Airborne, then a British SAS soldier 
 and then a Russian solider during the revolution at Stalingrad.
  
  The levels are pretty good, the sound effects are superb and the action is nonstop. These are all 
 key elements of great war games, Call of Duty doesn't fail to hit these in a good way. Another 
 good thing of Call of Duty is that it is not repeatitive at all... there missions ranging from 
 cities, forests, small villiages, Nazi camps, mansions, and other interesting 1940's European locales. 
 
  
  Another good point of Call of Duty is it's immersive multiplayer game which is second only to (you 
 guessed it) Medal of Honor: Allied Assault. It seems more arcade like than MOH but that doesn't 
 keep it from reaching new heights... but not high enough I'm afraid.
  
  If you are a fan of WWII shooters than I'm sure you will love this... but those of you who follow 
 my opinion that MOH: AA is the dominant WWII shooter than you won't be missing much. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: huss2215
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jan 3, 2005 2:27 am PT
Review:  Most realistic war game, Craziest war game ever! No war game can compare. This Game is the greatest 
 war game ever. Other war games just have you run in a straight path on your own killing a hole 
 army. But no this game delivered action at each corner, with your whole army by your side its slogan 
 "In war no one fights alone" lived up to be truely amazing. Gameplay-Great war everything is just 
 great but 1 slight problem is I wanted some war vehicles besides the tanks. I wanted to be able 
 to drive jets and bomb stuff, but still had great gameplay. Graphics-Outstandingly real. Sound-Real 
 war sounds that make you feel your in the action. Value-Hey I bought it for a good 45 bucks and 
 trust me it was worth it for me! Grab this game its defenitly awesome online multiplayer! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cruzedwfc
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jan 1, 2005 7:17 am PT
Review:  For a long time i havn't been able to find a good WW2 game or historical shooter for that matter. 
 The MoH series was bland and boring, and many of the other atempts to make a WW2 shooter failed 
 miserably. Finally some one got it right. 
  
  Call of Duty tells the story of some of WW2's biggest battles through 3 campaigns, a american, 
 a british and a russian. The Gameplay is extremly intense and fast paced giving it a manic feel 
 that few other shooters have come close to mathcing. The gameplay is very immersive as you run 
 from cover to cover killing germans with grenades exploding on all sides and bullets flying by 
 your head. Another reason why the gameplay is so great and immersive is becasue of the squad dynamic 
 in the game. Although you dont have any direct control over your squad they will be helping you 
 out throughout the entire mission and it does something that few games can do, you actually care 
 about your teamates. Especially on the higher difficulties you'll be constantly checking to make 
 sure your squadmates are still with you. Unlike most other games your squad mates will provide 
 covering fire for you and actually kill some of the germans for you.
  
  The graphics in the game are decent. Although they arn't particualry stunning the environments 
 and character models are good enough to make you really feel like your there. The sound in the 
 game is also very well done. Each gun has its own unique sound that give them a feel of their power 
 and it makes it feel like your shooting a real gun and not soem plastic one. The sound during combat 
 is also very well done. Squad mates will be yelling out to tell you to provide covering fire and 
 the germans will be soing the same. Explosions will cause your vision to be blured and everything 
 to be muffled. After this starts to wear off your hearing will slowly escalaute back to normal. 
 This is very well done and really adds to the intensity. Although there isn't alot of music during 
 the game there is some right at the right time that makes it very emotional and intense. 
  
  Because of the fast pace of the single player campaign it will be over before you know it. 
 But thats ok becasue there is a very well made and entertaining Multi player portion of the game. 
 There are several differnt modes, the basic DM, TDM, and CTF. As well as some mroe slightly unigque 
 ones that play more like a round of CS where you have no repspawns and usually an objective like 
 bomb somehitng or retreive something. These are very popular online so you wont have nay problem 
 finding a game. The only problem with the MP is that it can become a sniper fest or too manic to 
 be fun. Other then those rare occations that those happen the MP game is very enjoyable.
  
  Any one that likes shooters will love Call of Duty and is easily recomendable to just about everyone.
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: jsmoke03
Rating: 9.6
Date: Dec 29, 2004 4:40 am PT
Review:  Call Of Duty is one of the most addicting games ever. Anybody who is even remotely interested in 
 the events that transpired during WW2 will be astounded at how this game plays. It places the player 
 in the middle of an intense battle athmosphere in different scenarious and missions. The difficulty 
 of these missions vary, and most will find the action satisfying at the least.
  
  The gameplay has the basic shoot and kill element with almost the same button configuration as 
 most of the other fps out there, but it excells with different objectives that a player must accomplish 
 such as rescue missions, and infiltrating bases, and stronghold defenses that play well into the 
 theme. If one was to watch the epic mini series 'Band Of Brothers' you can almost assume that the 
 first disc is the video game replica of the story. You will also experience a scene from 'Enemy 
 at the Gates' with the defense of Stalingrad. If this is your cup of tea, then the game will definitely 
 deliver in those aspects. 
  It is difficult to go into a mission with guns blazing, and to those who aren't familiar with fps 
 will quickly realize that there is a bit of strategy and pacing involved in each mission. A bit 
 of caution and realism is recomended in the game.
  
  The sound and graphics are superb. The developers did a great job in getting the settings and background 
 to further immerse you into the game. The soldiers are a bit hard to decipher, but generally the 
 models look outstanding. The sound of guns are terrific, and i don't think i've ever heard a game 
 sound this good, even with my crappy sound card. I definitely think the sound is the highpoint 
 in the technical standpoint.
  
  A person can jump right in and enjoy the single player campaign and feel satisfied with the amount 
 of missions and the action. If a person preffers the multiplayer game, there is this option (although 
 i don't play it) so there is plenty of replay value to be had in this game.
  
  This game will ease my pain from the destruction (1.6 version) of counter=strike and i think provides 
 a better experience. As a gamer, i can't see any major flaws in this game. I think that this game, 
 no matter how old it may get, is superb with countless hours of enjoyment for anyone who loves 
 games, even if fps aren't their thing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Scatsofrango
Rating: 9.7
Date: Apr 2, 2007 8:32 am PT
Review:  Call of Duty is one of the best FPS developed for years, and it&acute; s no way a copy of Medal 
 of Honor. First of all, the game has action all the time, you barely breathe between the fases, 
 and there are lots of german soldiers firing at will. The graphs are formidable, with no flaws 
 at all, despite it&acute; s not required an ultimate card.
  Basically you play as a soldier of three major forces during WWII: the US Army, the British Royal 
 Army and the Soviets Army. Each on of the carachters has it&acute; s special rifles and stuff, with 
 real sound and fire rates. The campaigns are all based on real ones, and in my point of view the 
 russian campaign is the toughest, using sniper rifles all the time.
  Sometimes the AI loose the grounds, but normally all the enemy soldiers can shoot you with precision.
 
  
  Iff you play it with a good stereo speaker system and a sub-woofer it seems you&acute; re deeply 
 immersed into action. Historical facts are also correct, no fantasy was allowed to bring more gameplay 
 to it. All the guns have their carachteristical sound, and all the scenarios are accurately developed.
 
  The only down point of the game is it&acute; s duration, since you&acute; re able to finish it in 
 only 5 or 6 hours. Even with the expansion pack, I feel that I miss something.
  Finnaly, a game that is awarded with editor&acute; s choice, game of the year and lots of prizes 
 can&acute; t be boring, like some people said. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Onthehunt
Rating: 9.4
Date: Dec 22, 2004 1:42 am PT
Review:  Like some of the other reviews its more revolutionary than anything. However this game offers much 
 more in my opinion that some of the other WW2 first person shooters. The graphics are excellent 
 not stunning but quite impressive. Seeing the german anti aircraft guns shooting or the smoke rising 
 from fires to the soldiers face expression is quite impressive to say the least. If you have a 
 high end video card even better for more eye candy. The controls are pretty staight forward which 
 is always nice. If you have a good sound system you'll want to crank it up on this game, the audio 
 is just as good as the video. Theirs plenty of action going on and their never seems to be a dull 
 moment except in the beginning where you learn the basics but once the action gets going it doesn't 
 slow down. Only complaint I had was had to get alot of patches to get it to run on my system, but 
 then again thats my system many others haven't had the problems i had. It is kinda a short game 
 but then again thats what the expansion packs are for. The ai could be better at times the germans 
 seem stupid and will run out into the open when they have places to hide but for the most part 
 its better than most. At times you'll have to flush them out and that ussually isn't to difficult. 
 This is a game that won't dissappoint and definitely have to recommend it to any WW2 first person 
 shooter fan. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: smbius
Rating: 9.3
Date: Apr 18, 2007 8:18 pm PT
Review:  The pacing in this game is unbelievable. I'm not a huge fan of FPS but this is one game you should 
 try. *long*
  
  There are many good elements in this game - most of which are already covered in many other reviews. 
 Call of Duty (CoD) is a sensory overload of non-stop action that concentrates heavily on the  
 philosophy. Despite the fact that the game takes place in actual real setting, it is hardly realistic 
 by any means. That realism is thrown out the window to make you understand one thing - you are 
 Rambo. You do not have to worry too much about your health or your gunshots affecting your wounds 
 or movement in the field. If you're hit a couple of times by machine gun fire, simply hide in a 
 corner for a little bit and Bamm! Instant 100% health recovery. How about your teammates? No worries! 
 They happen to be the best shooters in your platoon. I guarantee. Running out of ammo? No problem! 
 Just shoot or butt-heads with next enemy and your platoon and other friendlies will be nice enough 
 to leave the gun for you to take. Like other FPS games, CoD is scripted albeit to the nth level. 
 CoD makes you feel like you're in the middle of an important mission and you're the hero that saves 
 the day. You will not only do this from the viewpoint of an American soldier but from the viewpoint 
 of British, American and Soviet soldiers as well. You will find seargeants and higher ranking officers 
 complimenting your every move and your every shot. Fellow soldiers will go out of their way for 
 thanking you for taking out that tank and its escort of 20 soldiers... all by yourself. CoD is a 
 game that goes out of its way to make you feel special in a time where most infantrymen are cannon 
 fodder in some of the greatest battles you get to be a part of.
  
  As you move from level to level, the intensity increases and the creativity of CoD's scripting 
 events are a joy to experience. You may notice also that some of the voiceovers of some the characters 
 in the game are well renowned actors (Giovanni Ribisi) which add to the game's immersion factor. 
 The creators of CoD have done their homework by watching a lot of war movies. You'll first experience 
 this through your first encounter with enemy mortar. Explosions blur your vision, time moves slower, 
 and sound is muffled, similar to some scenes in the movie Saving Private Ryan. Another moment is 
 when you are rushing the enemies in the battle of Stalingrad and your fellow mates are falling 
 like flies to the enemy's MG. There are also many memorable sequences in the game that'll leave 
 you laughing. Ultimately, the creators of CoD want to remove all of the frustrations most people 
 have with FPS games and keep the pacing of the action strong. While you maybe hit a thousand times 
 within a given level, you will want to keep playing this game. CoD's frequent saving checkpoints 
 assist in this regard and you'll find yourself easily wanting to continue the campaign. And if 
 that's not convenient enough, you can save your own slots in between those checkpoints just to 
 keep things less routine if you find yourself frequently dying from point D to E - something that 
 won't happen often unless you like running into enemy gunfire.
  
  As for multiplayer, there really isn't much to shake a stick at. You have 5 modes of play that 
 range from Deathmatch to Search and Destroy. They are typical modes of play that are expected from 
 most FPS games but there no comprehensive battle plans that need be to executed. It is a novelty 
 at best and the maps not the greatest in the world. In fact, if you've just come from a high after 
 completing CoD, the multiplayer aspect of the game will humble you and put you in your place.
 
  
  Overall, CoD is an excellent single-player game with a decent multiplayer component. With this 
 many FPS games in the market (especially games based on WWII) , you really can't go wrong with Call 
 Of Duty. It is one FPS game you shouldn't miss. Even years from now, I will still play this game 
 and relive some moments in its single-player mode. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pisc99
Rating: 9.2
Date: Dec 17, 2004 9:38 am PT
Review:  
  I don't where to start. Game is brilliant in many point's.
  You are playing real historic missions, on both American and Soviet side.
  Every side has it's 
 own charm, and to be honest, you can even see difference between American and Soviet national mentalitet. 
 
  You will see that when you play first mission with Russian's and see how thousands of soldiers 
 storm Stalingrad, with no gun's, and all that for motherland.
  
  This game is very realistic, and does extra ordinary job in bringing you close to real fights.
 
  If you have good sound system, game turns into fast paced ecstasy, where you must run trough field 
 with enemy shooting at you with machine gun's, artillery is bombarding you, earth is fighting all 
 over, you see your comrades dieing, everybody shouting, it's just one frantic and great fun.
  Graphic just contributes to all that, so that everything is smooth, and nicely done. It's sight 
 for sore eyes to see a large battlefield, packed with tanks, infantry, airplanes flying over you, 
 and every body fighting for their lives.
  
  Your comrades and enemy AI is one top level. Enemy soldiers are using all that they can to hide 
 them self's from fire, they use grenades when you are hidden, and your comrades have even basic 
 tactic movement, so while one is covering you hidden behind the door you can clear the room.
  
  Multi player is on the same high level of greatness as the single player, and some more.
 
  While in single player, game is pretty straight forward, your enemies are always on the same place. 
 It's very easy to get killed, but after few reloading, you know by heart where are your enemies.
 
  In multi player you don't have that, and it's very fun. You can play against each other, or join 
 in as Germans and fight with team which are Americans. Multi player is also fast paced and intense, 
 even without, extensive bombing. You can even drive a tank, while your partner is sitting using 
 machine gun on top of the tank. Just GREAT.
  
  Mine only compliant to this game becomes predictable, as I said, after few loading's you know where 
 to shoot. but don't worry, even if you knew where every enemy soldier is, you will still die very 
 fast and brutal. Other thing is that your troops can die as long you are alive, and they can't 
 win the fight without of you. My opinion.
  
  This is one of the best FPS, that I played, with second world war theme.
  Game is amazing. GREAT. 
 Be shore to play this one, you wont regret.
  ENJOY.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: sup3ry0shi
Rating: 9.6
Date: Dec 14, 2004 3:12 am PT
Review:  A great game that won over 70 game of the year awards and it deserved it. The game is very intense, 
 faced paced multiplayer. The only thing is, most people moved to Call of Duty: United Offensive 
 game. Well that is a really bad thing. The game makes you go rushing to the washroom in the middle 
 of the game. The intensity is just amazing.
  
  The graphics is ok, just like other ordinary games. Call of Duty also won game of the year for 
 sound quality. You can hear the bullets fly accross your face if it is shot near. The sound quality 
 can change from 44khz to 11khz.
  
  Worth buying, and if your going to buy it, maybe buy the expansion pack with it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pad69
Rating: 9.3
Date: Dec 14, 2004 1:40 am PT
Review:  Ok so I am hooked. Love the darn game. I play almost every weekend with my grown children and my 
 grandchildren. We have at our home LAN playing involving at least 6 players and we have 6 computers 
 with the option for 5 more if friends bring their computers.
  
  What did and do I like? Well when I first played the game alone I was imersed in the action and 
 realisim of the battles and how war can be total caos. The missions were so fluent and the acuracy 
 of where it all took place. I guess because of my family and relitives being involved with this 
 war it made me feel closer to them.
  
  Maybe I put too much into it but I appreciate the programmers on this one. The game has never given 
 us any problems. It runs fluently and smooth. The weapon choises are well done for accuracy even 
 though some are not quite accurate as We own some of the real things. The multiplayer gives a good 
 variety of maps and types of play. 
  
  Other players have their reasons for low rate but we have ages ranging from 7 to 51 and everyone 
 here loves it. Multiplayer online can be a pain because of so many clans and it can be fustrating 
 with all the bravado with chest beating to be number one. WW2 as with any war is a team effort 
 and working together toward a comon goal is good but some of the things going on with online play 
 sucks. But there again that is this players view and opinion. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: doctor_kaz
Rating: 7.1
Date: Dec 7, 2004 5:59 pm PT
Review:  The endless praise heaped upon this overrated ripoff mystifies me. It has quite possibly the shortest 
 single player campaign of any game on the market. The graphics are average at best, and the gameplay 
 is nothing special. It's just "Medal of Honor: Allied Assault" version 1.1. The game basically 
 places you on a rail the whole time, throws lots of really dumb enemies at you, and lets you mow 
 them down before walking on a rail to the next room where you mow down another mob of dumb enemies. 
 You occasionally come across a puzzle disguised as an action sequence, or you ocasionally rig something 
 with explosives to blow it up. Big deal. 
  
  The game is scripted to a gnat's arse. This was great when it was more novel a few years ago (example: 
 MoH: AA's Normandy Beach level) , but now it's just a rehash. Been there, done that. I guess there's 
 nothing particularly wrong with that, but if I can't have original gameplay, I want great graphics, 
 or cool level design, or a lot of levels. Call of Duty offers a handful of great missions, but 
 that's all. The game's Stalingrad level is a pure ripoff of Medal of Honor: Allied Assault's Normandy 
 Beach level. Why people are so impressed with this is beyond me. 
  
  One of the big deals, supposedly, is that you are always fighting with other troops. This sounds 
 great until you notice that your friendly troops are just goons who can take a lot of damage. You 
 can't command them, and there is absolutely nothing special about the way that they fight, take 
 cover, shout out barks, etc. 
  
  Right now, you can buy at least a handful of first person shooters (Doom 3, Painkiller, Half-Life 
 2, Far Cry, Chrome, No One Lives Forever 2) that last at least 3 times as long as Call of Duty. 
 All of these games also have much better production values than Call of Duty, and have some innovative 
 gameplay elements or weapons. Especially Half-Life 2 and Painkiller. You don't have to settle for 
 a five-hour game anymore. Call of Duty is grotesquely overrated, and I suggest that you only play 
 it if you find it in the bargain bin. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tory66
Rating: 9.1
Date: Dec 5, 2004 9:15 pm PT
Review:  I got this game recently because i needed it to pla the expansion pack which i already had. The 
 game is amazing, real world weapons,  The game is pretty long 
 and is amazing all the way through. The vehicular missions are amazing especially riding on the 
 back of a truck. I actually got pissed of when i saw my partener shot and beaten with the rifle, 
 really pissed off. The experienced sukes me right in. The game runs spoothly and is probably on 
 of the easiest games to run, hardware wise. There are no real problems, no bugs or anything of 
 that nature, its one of those games where u say thanx for it bein made. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MarkSmith
Rating: 9.6
Date: Dec 4, 2004 4:10 am PT
Review:  Graphics: The WW2 authenticity is amazing. It has MOH: FL's atmospheric feeling, and MOH: AA's 
 framerate and graphics trumped.
  
  Gameplay: Nice selection of weapons, pretty balanced, great overall package. Single Player is pretty 
 good, but multiplayer is where it shines. Thanks to the new patches using punkbuster, cheaters 
 have a looser grip on this game than almost any other online shooter
  
  Sound: The effects of war are well captured. Music is nothing to write home about, especially compare 
 dto the music in MOH: FL
  
  Value: Online play is so much fun. Usually the newest WW2 shooter is my favorite, but CoD is still 
 my favorite evn after Pacific Assault's release. I can always see myself coming back to CoD.
  
  Tilt: Gotta love a well balanced shooter with no b. s's just fast action and fun! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kgb12345
Rating: 9.3
Date: Dec 3, 2004 2:48 am PT
Review:  With so many war games available, it's refreshing to see one break from the mold. Call of Duty 
 is the best WWII game yet. In my opinion, it's one of the best FPS yet. It avoids the annoying 
 things that other first person shooters don't. You don't have to open every stupid door you come 
 to. In fact, you never have to open any doors. It instead focuses on giving an authentic, intense, 
 fun war game with three great campains.
  
  Gameplay-9
  Smooth, fun, innovative.
  
  Graphics-9
  Smooth, detailed, great animations.
  
  Sound-9
  Intense, great sound fx and 
 dialogue.
  
  Value-9
  Three small campains combine to make one huge war game. Multiplayer is awesome too. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: krakerjack
Rating: 9.2
Date: Nov 29, 2004 3:35 am PT
Review:  Call of duty, if nothing else, provides the greatest depiction of World War 2 in a video game atmosphere 
 to date. This game took everything good about the Medal of Honor and improved upon it. From the 
 opening jump into Normandy to the final barrage of Berlin this game will have you hooked with its 
 unprecedented portrayal of war torn Europe.
  
  First off, you are allowed to finally play as a Soldier, not just for the American forces, but 
 also for the Allied Forces. You play as an airborne soldier with the U. S, an SAS soldier with the 
 British, and a soldier with the Russian army. Each campaign has its own unique weapons and unique 
 situations. You will never get bored playing this game. The level layout is done so that you always 
 know where to go. Theres no fumbling around for which door to walk through. If a door is closed, 
 its meant to be that way. There is also a navigation bar, which will help guide you through various 
 checkpoints.
  
  What truly makes this game are not the graphics, its the sound. The sound in this game, especially 
 with a 5.1 system with a loud subwoofer truly immerses you into the struggle. The weapon sounds 
 are authentic, and the overall sound of war happening around you sucks you in.
  
  My favorite mission was storming a German house, overtaking the house, and then defending the shanty 
 from infantry and armored assault. It is truly an incredible experience, which will have you reloading 
 that particular level over and over again to experience it.
  
  If youve seen Enemy at the Gates, then youve seen the first level for the Russian army. As most 
 know, the Russians didnt have the supplies to hand out to each soldier, so you get in line, get 
 ammo (thats right ammo, but no gun) and must avoid German fire and bunny hop from one coverage 
 area to another. You then make your charge to retake Stalingrad. But be warned, if you retreat, 
 your Russian officers will shoot you. (Good times) .
  
  To put it simply, play this game. It is an unbelievable single player experience. If you enjoy 
 movies like Saving Private Ryan or the HBO series Band of Brothers you will love this game. While 
 the game play is somewhat arcade-like, you will get an understanding of what the Allies did to 
 win the war that changed the world.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: loismustdie89
Rating: 9.8
Date: Nov 28, 2004 3:03 pm PT
Review:  Call of Duty is an intense, immersive shooter that puts you in the place or an American, British 
 and Russian soldier making your way up the ranks. From the very beginning as you storn a small 
 village as an American soldier ,with many team mates who have just landed via parachutes, you are 
 made you find cover and use many techniques to take down the fortified Nazis. Your team mates' 
 AI is suprisingly good and helpful. 
  
  Though the British campaign is lacking the American and Russians more than make up for it. At Stalingrad 
 (the first Russian mission) you are a peasant soldier sent into battle with just ammo and no gun 
 and you must find your way to Red Square as machine gun fire flys by your head.
  
  The graphics aren't the best but they are still great and realistic. This goes the same with the 
 sound as it seems only in the cenematics or in scripted scenes do other soldiers talk (excluding 
 grenades) .
  
  The single player is far too short though (even though you'll want to play it more than once) , but 
 the multiplayer is great and will keep you coming back for more. Many game modes and enviroments.
 
  
  All in all pick this game up. You can't go wrong. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: littlealien
Rating: 8.3
Date: Nov 28, 2004 2:45 am PT
Review:  A solid game with MP in depth.
  Next gen from the MOH games. With MOH and the expansions for that the game started out on a patch 
 that can only lead to whole emersive lanscapes that stretch as far as the eye can see. Basically 
 as big as UIltima. Real time war, thats where its going. Moh started it, Cod picks up the batton. 
 Bf vietnam opens the landscapes and Americas Army brings the team play and seriousness. some generational 
 flaws and some bugs, but worth the money, for mp alone! Single player is linea and repetative with 
 a lack of real-world feel to it. You always feel like you are being ghuided down a set path, Games 
 like this HAVE to now be dynamic and ever changing, its the only way to go. I'm kind of sick of 
 the upgraded eye candy, but same old same old game AI (and to be honest, in SP, it really does 
 suck ass) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dgranda
Rating: 9.4
Date: Nov 16, 2004 9:35 pm PT
Review:  Amazing! I am not even a shooter fan but I got sucked right into this one. Can't wait to beat it 
 so I can get the expansion. The sound effects and game mechanics work to perfection. I have not 
 played a shooter on the PC since Doom II and now I clearly see how far the genre has come. The 
 cut scenes are very well done and bring you into each senario with a clear sense of what is to 
 be accomplished. I particualrly like the coopertive squad design which is totaly new to me. Overall 
 I have to give it a 9.4 with my only negative coming in the replayability of the single player 
 mode. I am sure my pulse will not be as quick the second time through. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wizeguy525
Rating: 9.8
Date: Nov 16, 2004 12:14 am PT
Review:  This game is not simply a clone of the venerable Medal Of Honor series. Call of Duty is a great 
 game that offers much more then MoHaa does. I used to play MoHaa exclusively for a LONG time, since 
 it first launched. I bought all of its expansions too, Speahead, breakthrough, et al. CoD also 
 has a new expansion out that allows the use of vehicles which is pretty neat to say the least. 
 ALl in all, this game is an evolution, but not revolutionary. If you like the WWII FPS, this is 
 the game to have at this time, HANDS DOWN! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: VanGoghs_Ear
Rating: 9.1
Date: Nov 12, 2004 6:38 am PT
Review:  My favorite single player WWII shooter to date. I wouldn't call this game revolutionary, but what 
 it does is takes everything that's been done and presents it in the perfect blend.
  
  The game is heavily scripted and very linear, so if you're not interested in that style of play, 
 you should probably stay away. Of all the elements of Call of Duty, what it does best is immerse 
 the gamer. This feels like a hollywood production of epic proportion. My favorite thing about the 
 game is how you actually feel like you're fighting in a war. You'll almost always be accompanied 
 by your team, and there's just so much going on all around you at all times. The environments and 
 cinematics combined with the music and how it's all put together is enough to give you the chills 
 at times.
  
  On the down side, this game is short... even for a shooter, but there is a multiplayer option to 
 bring up the value of the game. It can also get a bit repetative at times, but all and all, the 
 package just works. Even if the game is very formulaic, the fact is, the formula just works great.
 
  
  I gave the graphics and sound a 10 even though it may not be the latest engine (quake engine I 
 believe) , what they've managed to do in terms of atmosphere is incredible. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Magoga
Rating: 9.7
Date: Nov 8, 2004 8:57 pm PT
Review:  The best game I have ever played is Call of Duty! Great gameplay, sound and graphics. It has plenty 
 of varienty and takes you away from Medal of Honor type games by actually GIVING YOU BUDDIES that 
 help in combat. The mission range from massive battlefields in stalingrad to special forces sabatage 
 with the British. The multiplayer has plenty of variety, by giving you many different types of 
 matches to choose from and very well made maps. I enjoyed playing this game more than any other 
 game ever!!! This game is a masterpiece of hard work by Infinity Ward. I recommend this game to 
 anybody, people that don't even play games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jdarnold
Rating: 8.1
Date: Nov 2, 2004 3:08 pm PT
Review:  Call of Duty brings nothing extra fancy to the overloaded World War 2
  FPS genre, but it does everything very well and is quite entertaining
  to play. You get to play 
 3 short campaigns; one for each of the main
  Allied forces, the US, British and then finishing up as the Russians
  storming Berlin. Each mini-campaign 
 is a linked series of episodes,
  usually of the "kill all Germans", but sometimes offering up a neat
  twist, like racing along 
 in the back of a truck, or even driving a
  tank. The mini-campaigns end rather abruptly, as does the game when
  you've finished up a couple 
 more episodes after finishing as the
  Russians, so don't look for some big beautiful payoff at the end.
  
  The controls are your 
 standard, easily remappable ones, allowing your
  to stand, jump, crouch or go prone. I did like the indicator which
  quickly showed your current 
 position. Call of Duty does add a nice
  leaning mechanism, where you can lean left or right to peer around
  corners, and shoot, offering 
 a smaller and harder to hit profile to
  the enemy. Reloading is easy (I like it being mapped to the middle
  mouse button) . You can only 
 carry 2 weapons, plus grenades. You can
  toggle the firing mode of many of the weapons to set them to single
  shot, or various kinds of 
 bursts. You can fire in one of two ways,
  from the hip or, by bringing the sights up. I like how it zooms
  various amounts when you aim 
 down the sights. Each weapon zooms in a
  little differently, with, of course, the sniper rifle zooming in the
  most.
  
  Most of the 
 episodes are you and your squad mates trying to get from
  one side of the map to the other. Often, you are clearing out
  buildings, other times you are 
 setting off explosives. Your squad
  mates are a little strange. They vacillate between being Sgt. Rock
  and racing into the room 
 ahead of you (be careful, as Friendly Fire is
  on!) , and hanging back, unwilling to lend a hand. Also, in some
  episodes your mates are impervious 
 to damage, while in others (most of
  them) , they fall like paper tigers. It is important to note which is
  which, and let them lead 
 if they are invincible.
  
  The episodes are heavily scripted and have almost no varying
  attributes. The Germans come in the same way, and often act the same
  way. Getting across hot 
 points causes the same things to happen in
  the same order, so replay value is very limited. On the normal
  difficulty level, first aid packs 
 are plentiful and it's pretty easy
  to go through an episode unscathed.
  
  But there's a couple of cool levels. One has you riding in the back
  of a truck, trying to pick 
 off your chasers. Another has you driving
  a Soviet tank. It's a tough level, as the tank is hard to figure out
  (I didn't notice the little 
 tank icon, which shows both your heading
  and which way your turret is facing, until much later, which helps
  quite a bit) and the German 
 infantry has Panzerschreks, which deal out
  serious damage. There is only one timed level, and that was pretty
  easy - race into a prison 
 and rescue someone. Just follow your squad
  mates and you'll do okay.
  
  The hardest levels were the aforementioned tank one, another one that
  you had to shoot a couple 
 of tanks using the wildly inaccurate
  Panzerschreks (although you do have an infinite supply) , the first
  Russian level where you have 
 to storm the beaches (!) at Stalingrad and
  figure out who to find, and a later Russian one where you are trying
  to hole up in a building 
 being assaulted on all sides by a limitless
  number of German infantry and several tanks. But in general it was
  pretty fair, and each level 
 had its charms, even if they were too
  linear by half.
  
  All in all, this is a solid game that was very fun to play. It
  doesn't break new ground, and 
 there is little to do besides shoot
  everything that moves. There are no RPG elements at all, and even
  choosing weapons offers no 
 interest, as you generally pick up an MP40
  early on and then spend time hunting down enemies for their
  ammunition. You spend most of your 
 time with German weapons, and so
  there just isn't all that many to choose from. There are no puzzles,
  besides the couple of levels 
 that require you to find another
  soldier. But he's always in the same spot, so once you find him, you
  always know where he is 
 if you need to reload.
  
  But if you like World War 2 shooters, this is a good one. It was nice
  to play one that has a 
 point, unlike say Day of Defeat which is just
  capture the flag. It would be nice if someone would add a more rounded
  WW2 shooter, that included 
 more strategic choices, but until then Call
  of Duty will offer you a fun time. It is short - it would have to be
  for me to actually finish 
 it. I think I played it for maybe a total of
  about 20 hours, which is the only reason I'm thinking to try it again
  on a harder level.
  
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Junkmandude
Rating: 9.2
Date: Oct 30, 2004 7:23 pm PT
Review:  Looking for a great FPS with a WWII theme? There are many to choose from but look no further. In 
 my honest opinion you have found the best one in Call of Duty. You get to play through this great 
 story in the eyes of the Americans, the British, and the Soviets. There are many levels for each 
 faction and the all progress smoothly from one to the next. There is a range of difficulty skills 
 so pick the one that best suits you. Me personally I choose the hardest level of difficulty (veteran) 
 so I can get my skills developed to their maximum potential. 
  
  While playing this game you will encounter a variety of weapons, different type of mission objectives, 
 beautiful landscapes, and a variety of vehicles, some that you just ride along and help support 
 and others like tanks that you get to operate. You will also have the support of other soldiers 
 on your team that will help you from time to time to meet your objectives, but you cannot rely 
 on them entirely to get the job for you. You still need to take the lead to get the job done.
 
  
  If you are mainly a run and gunner, you may want to think twice about this game as you might get 
 away with this on a very easy difficulty level you sure wont last long in a much higher difficulty 
 level. You need to use a little strategy and a little point protection if you plan on making it 
 through this game with your head on. 
  
  Then there is the online multiplayer. I cant say enough about this. It is very easy to get started 
 and will place you on a team. You can tell which team you are on by the flag that will be shown 
 translucently over your head. Then from there its up to you to get the job done. You can work as 
 a team or you can try to be the hero and save the day by yourself. Either way it is a whole lot 
 of fun. I am sure if you pick up this game you will have a whole lot of fun.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: JR_HOLMES
Rating: 9.6
Date: Oct 22, 2004 5:44 am PT
Review:  Call of Duty developed by Infinity Ward is a World War II themed shooter that has bean designed 
 to give the player a deep and rich single player campaign, and to ass in a multiplayer that will 
 keep gamers playing for years to come, and the folks at Infinity Ward have done just that.
  
  When Publisher Activison told the public about the single player campaign they mentioned that 
 the single player campaign would involve 3 different campaigns with 3 different members of the 
 Alliance, the Americans, the Britons as well as the Russians, but in reality you cannot play the 
 3 campaigns are one campaign that is broken up into 3 different countries and missions for troughs 
 factions, on top of that there are 3 special missions at the end of the game for the user to 
 play witch tie into the story quiet nicely.
  
  Call of Duty is one of the best looking first person shooters you will ever see, the team at Infinity 
 ward have not cut corners with this game.
  The troops for all factions show great detail, with backpacks and belt filled with ammo, it seems 
 that every last detail has been taken into consideration, their helmets show ware and tare, and 
 bloodstains appear in their uniforms after taking a shot to the body.
  The environments in Call of Duty also look superb and help add a great amount of atmosphere and 
 feel to the game as you are playing though the main campaign, you will see such terrain as a broken 
 down town swarming with tanks as smoke hovers above in the distance in some repackage.
  The all around package from the standpoint of graphics is very well done, Call of Duty competes 
 with the best in the business and will not disappoint you in anyway.
  
  C. O. D has some of the best AI the I have ever seen in a shooter to date, and thats not just enemy 
 AI that goes for you teammates as well, they will cover you when you are out in the open, and ask 
 for covering fire when they make a move, and if you dont help them they might just get shot, witch 
 means that you will never see them again.
  The Characters in COD are very recognizable, they all have their own voices and what seem like 
 personalities, you will grown attached to each one of them as you go one and will be saddened when 
 they fall in combat.
  But the bottom line is that the AI in COD is some of the best ever made and is one of the key points 
 to this game to turn it from an average shooter to one of the all-time greats.
  
  The Multiplayer in COD is also some of the best and most fun multiplayer options this side of Battlefield 
 1942, witch is very rare to see in a game that had as solid single player campaign ad COD has.
 
  There are many multiplayer modes that the user can play online.
  You have your regular Deathmatch and Team Deathmatch and after that Infinity ward has added in 
 some of their own modes, some of witch will be reminiscent of other modes that have bean in other 
 First Person Shooters.
  One new multiplayer mode that IW has put in is Search and destroy in witch one player becomes the 
 hunted player and the rest of the players try to kill him/her, if you do kill the one player then 
 you become the hunted player and so on, while it is a good idea it really doesnt have the pull 
 you in game play that a good old Team Deathmatch does.
  Another mode is Behind enemy lines in witch there are 2 teams, one defends a point in the map, 
 and the other team has to attack that point and after one round the team switch and start over.
 
  All in all the multiplayer in COD is one of the best multiplayer options out there, and offers 
 a great alterative to Battlefield 1942 witch has bean herald as the best multiplayer game of all-time, 
 well COD wants to de-throne BF:1942 and has a good chance to with its great combo of great and 
 involving single player, and a great and solid multiplayer that will last you for months if not 
 years with the endless fun to behold with Call of Duty.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Loneni
Rating: 8.7
Date: Oct 15, 2004 10:44 pm PT
Review:  Just started playing this last night. After boot camp, its gets you right into the action and the 
 story. I like the mission breifing / load screens nice to have something to read while loading. 
 I got to say the sound blows me away. One of the best uses of surround sound in a game i have played 
 to date. I have the Audigy 2 ZS and to be able to hear what direction a tank is coming from is 
 so cool. Also just the immersion of sound as you cross a field with mortars screaming in around 
 you and planes flying over head had me ducking in my seat for cover. 
  
  Story seems well done so far (though I don't understand why I got from Pvt. Martin to Sgt. Adams 
 at some point) . The in game cut scenes and the near non stop action are making for a game I am 
 really enjoying. Last game I had this much fun with was Far Cry. Looking forward to trying out 
 the multiplayer to see how it is. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DBZAddicted
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 11, 2004 5:37 am PT
Review:  I have been waiting for this game for long time and now eventually I got this game like 11 months 
 ago. The first play made me feel like "... oh my God.." The graphics, one word "Awesome". Game play, 
 FPS is my favorite genre, and this game is just a real revolution for FPS genre. so I would give 
 it just 10 out of 10. Sound? The game makes me feel like I'm in the real battlefield. Music, is 
 just nice and pretty, I even own a soundtrack CD and many of the songs are very enjoyable. 
  
  This game is a pure masterpiece. And this game will be a legend. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Skull_kid2000
Rating: 9.6
Date: Oct 10, 2004 10:18 pm PT
Review:  Call of Duty has got to be the best WWII themed shooter to date. This game makes WWII FPS games 
 fun again. Call of Duty comes with a Campaign mode which will through you in as an American Paratrooper 
 named Private Martin, a British SAS commando named Sergeant Evans, and a Russian infantryman named 
 Alexi Ivanovich. Each side has its own personal arsinal of weaponry historically based, such as 
 the Thompson submachine gun, the Bren support gun, or the Mosin-Nauggt rifle. The missions are 
 great, but the multiplayer is what will keep you coming back. With lots of options to customise 
 your gameplay, this game has a ton of replay value. In addition to these 3 sides, you can also 
 play as the Germans in multiplayer with weapons such as the MP 40. The maps are diverse with crates 
 of weapons such as Panzerfausts (a single shot anti-tank weapon usefull against groups of enemies) , 
 FG 42s (sniper rifles with a fully automatic mode) , and strategically placed MG 42s (stationary 
 heavy machine guns which are extremely powerful) The only disadvantage here is that Call of Duty 
 does not have vehicles. You may find yourself shooting from the back of a truck, dropping out of 
 a plane, or driving a tank in the single player campaign, but multiplayer is devoid of vehicles. 
 Other than this small drawback, Call of Duty's features add up to make a truely superb gaming experience 
 you will never forget. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ioden
Rating: 9.4
Date: Oct 8, 2004 11:34 pm PT
Review:  When a game has over 90 user reviews and only 3 of them are below 7.0, you know that the game is 
 something special. This is the case with Call of Duty, which is so breathtaking that it feels like 
 a crime that it's so short.
  
  There have been at least a dozen FPS's based on World War II, but even though Call of Duty is released 
 after most of them, it still ends up on top. It combines great graphics, intensity unrivaled in 
 any other game to date, fluid controls, brilliant AI, cinematic levels, and great multiplayer to 
 form one of the best first-person shooters ever. However, its single-player -- certainly the selling 
 point of the game, though the multiplayer isn't bad -- is so short that you can breeze through it 
 your first time through in under ten hours. The game is so amazing, so breathtaking, so intense... 
 for the eight hours it lasts. The multiplayer, as I said above, is great, but it is definitely 
 not the selling point of the game. The multiplayer feels like a clone of every other FPS's multiplayer, 
 but that doesn't mean it's bad.
  
  The gameplay is the main selling point of Call of Duty. It's so intense, so realistic, so immersive 
 that calling anything other than one of the best single-player campaigns in any game ever is a 
 complete lie. Every second of the game is filled with explosions, bullets, and incredibly realistic 
 AI, making you feel like you're really a soldier fighting in WWII. You grow so attached to your 
 squad that you will honestly risk your life to run back and save them from the enemy troops that 
 swarm you.
  
  Some of the best parts of the game are the "rail rides", where you control the gun (until the tank 
 mission, where you eventually control the guns and the wheels) of the car while someone else drives 
 it through a pre-set path. Two examples of this are the levels where, in order, you mow down enemies 
 while a buddy drives the jeep you're in, and the level where you blow up enemy tanks in Russia. 
 But the rest of the game is just a tiny bit less breathtaking, with levels where you destroy a 
 dam, infiltrate a ship, hold a bridge, and take back Stalingrad. Every level of the game is intense, 
 action-packed, and cinematic, and it all makes you want to play the next level. That's actually 
 the best part of Call of Duty- it makes you want to go on just to see what amazing level is next, 
 not to know that you're closer to beating the game.
  
  The graphics are great all around, with explosions, bullets flying around, appropriate environments, 
 and the like. My only gripe is that some textures look atrocious, but that hardly takes away from 
 the amazingly lifelike graphics the game possesses.
  
  The sound is even better. The voice acting from your squad, the sound effects, the brilliant music... 
 it's all incredible, memorable, and immersive. I unfortunately don't have a surround sound speaker 
 system, but if you do, I can guarantee you that it'll make the sound that much more enjoyable.
 
  
  The value, as I've said, is where the game falls short. The single-player will take you eight to 
 ten hours your first time through, which is incredibly disappointing, but there's a big chance 
 you'll want to play through the game again and again to experience the memorable, cinematic re-enactment 
 of WWII over and over. The multiplayer is decent, but is definitely not worth playing if you have 
 any other FPS with decent multiplayer.
  
  Overall, Call of Duty is a memorable, intense, breathtaking, cinematic game that every gamer has 
 to experience. Its value is very lacking, but that's only because the game is so great that you'll 
 want more. One thing is certain: despite the small amount of value you'll get, Call of Duty is 
 a game that will always be remembered as a classic game with one of the best single-player campaigns 
 ever. With more value, it could easily have THE best single-player campaign ever. But hey, the 
 new expansion, United Offensive, is out, so if you pick that up, you'll have 20 hours of non-stop 
 intense gaming. And because of Call of Duty's gameplay quality, that's something you definitely 
 want. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rattlesnake_8
Rating: 9.3
Date: Oct 8, 2004 4:17 pm PT
Review:  ... eyes wide in awe at the amazing graphics. Not only that, but the intense combat that carries 
 on throughout the game will have you drooling.
  
  The graphics are realistic, everything from player models to weapons to explosions to scenery look 
 really great. The sound is top notch as is the gameplay. 
  
  Online games are a lot of fun, as long as you can find a server without half being snipers. It's 
 not to bad though, there is a lot of great moments to be had playing COD online.
  
  Single player is an amazing experience. Although it is heavily scripted, and when i say heavily, 
 i mean the entire game is scripted. That is the biggest let down. After the first time you play 
 through the campaign, it is still a lot of fun, but nothing ever changes the second time round. 
 The missions are varied, ranging from the British glider mission at Peagasus Bridge to charging 
 towards German machine guns and tanks with your fellow Russian Comrades. The campaign is divided 
 up into American, British and Russian missions. All are a lot of fun and provide a refreshing change 
 from the mission before. 
  
  The AI isn't all that bright, but you will still die a number of times, especially on the harder 
 settings. The AI does the basic things, running from grenades, throwing grenades at you to flush 
 you out, retreating and attacking, flanking.. etc. But most of it is scripted. One part you take 
 out machine gunners nests.. just like in MOH: AA, another soldier takes over and resumes firing 
 at you. Thats all good, except the soldier comes out of a building. When you shoot him, another 
 one runs out of the same building.. (repeat 4 or 5 times) . If the enemy were charging foreward 
 and an enemy looked over and noticed no one was manning the MG (machine gun) and then moved towards 
 it then it would look more realistic. Rather than having troops all "hiding" in a building, only 
 to run out in the open when the MG guy has been killed. (They run out in the open, from cover, 
 with no covering fire) . Not a big issue, as those that have played the game know. But it does make 
 you wonder..
  
  My other gripe with the game is how they take off from movies.. MOH: AA's DDay landing was a copy 
 of Saving Private Ryan, well the first Russian mission is an exact copy of the movie Enemy at the 
 Gates. It's not all bad, but with the amount of battles during WWII, it would have been nice to 
 see some new stuff, not the same old thing we have seen in movies before.
  
  Call of Duty is a must for any FPS fan. Especially those that enjoy WWII themed FPS games. The 
 expansion, COD: United Offensive is out so you should be able to get both together.. your really 
 missing out on a great experience if you pass this title up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: _bluefire_
Rating: 9.4
Date: Oct 7, 2004 2:22 am PT
Review:  I remember playing Medal of Honor at my friend's house and thought holy crap this game sucks! I 
 never wanted to play a WWII shooter again until that day when Call of Duty came out. The gameplay 
 is great, totally immersive you could actually believe you were on the battle field. Sensible objectives 
 that might actually have happened in WWII and a sensible path to get to them make the game excellent. 
 The graphics a great the towns look like the actually locales in France Russia etc. The sound is 
 top notch the best of the game. Value is again great. Just a great game for the PC of you enjoy 
 FPS buy this game right away! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: clearman90
Rating: 9.1
Date: Oct 3, 2004 2:17 pm PT
Review:  Lets start off with the single player campaign. From beginning to end theres little to complain 
 about. The missions when ur in the middle of a battlefield along with tons of other soldiers are 
 nothing short of amazing. i was sitting here yelling wo and o crap! at my computer. the rail levels 
 are ok too. the only parts i didnt like were the 1 guy against the world levels. 
  Multiplayer is another reason to love call of duty. although some modes are boring, others are 
 great. team deathmatch usually sucks but regular deathmatch, search and destroy, and headquarters 
 are almost always good. theres a number of mods in the works so dont expect the servers to die 
 soon.
  From a technical standpoint, this game is fantastic. theres barely any slowdown and if there is 
 its minor. the sounds of the explosions really draw u in and the guns have nice sounds too. i have 
 a 64mb gforce 2 and a 1.8 ghz processor and ive experienced no problems at all. internet lag is 
 usually minimal. 
  so if u have any interest in a ww2 fps, dont wait another minute to pick this up. this is 30 dollars 
 well spent.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: MrBlake
Rating: 9.7
Date: Sep 28, 2004 12:47 am PT
Review:  I used to play MOHAA, now I can't stop playing Call of Duty. This game resounds of Medal of Honor, 
 yet it sings its own sweet tune of explosions going off, and bullets riping through your buddies 
 bodies.
  The gameplay is extremely fantastic. It incorporates linear gameplay, however, the AI is much much 
 MUCH smarter than those of Medal of Honor (but those dang snipers still known exactly where you 
 are all the time) . The single-player mode is quite replayable. Each of the three campaigns will 
 strech you out for around 10-20 hours, depending on the difficulty setting. The multiplayer is 
 not lacking either. One of the best parts is how spawn points will change in Team DM if one is 
 overrun, so that the other team cant keep spawn killing, very nice touch.
  The graphics, though not revolutionary are still superb in my opinion, the explosions and character 
 models are nicely done as well as the gun models, and decals. The weak point, its not bad just 
 the not greatest part of the graphics, is probably the terrain. Its great but not superberb.
  Now the sound, oh man, it would definitely rival that of the Medal of Honor series for "Best Sound 
 of All Time". Infinity Ward did a great job of putting the sound effects and music and voices together 
 so superbly.
  Overall this is a must have for any PC gamer! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ShadoDragon56
Rating: 9.8
Date: Sep 24, 2004 9:31 pm PT
Review:  This game is way better than Medal of Honor Allied Assault, even though its only a year newer, 
 its proof of how fast games are evolving.
  
  Gameplay = Call of Duty has many improvements over MoHAA:
  Its faster to reload with a bullet 
 in the spout when using a SMG, LMG, or Pistol because then you don't have to cock the gun! (you 
 always had to cock it even with one in the spout in MoHAA) .
  There is an ability to Aim Down the Sights.
  There is an ability to go Prone (in MoHAA you could 
 only crouch) .
  There is a wider weapon selection.
  
  Graphics = The graphics are excellent, they are quite realistic.
  
  Sound = Very realistic, 
 each weapon has a very distinct sound, and has been accurately transferred into the game. Sometimes 
 the sound of MG42s get annoying.
  
  Value = This game will be very fun to play for a long time, especially if combined with the new 
 Call of Duty: United Offensive expansion pack! I have played this game for over 200 hours approximately.
 
  
  Reviewer's Tilt = 10/10, because it is a very immersive game, if coupled with 5.1 Dolby Surround 
 Sound and TeamSpeak, it can feel like you are in WWII.
  
  If you have this game, I recommend you buy the United Offensive expansion pack. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ay_Cee
Rating: 9.8
Date: Sep 20, 2004 11:43 pm PT
Review:  Evry so often, a game comes out that makes you realize that there really are developers out there 
 that pay attention to details that often get overlooked. Activision and Infinity Ward knew that 
 authenticity and realism would put Call of Duty over the top.
  
  It's not often that software companies get a product right the first time. Call of Duty was just 
 such a title. There's an enthralling single-player campaign storyline that follows WWII events 
 like you were watching the History Channel. Battlefields, weapons, even the way the Axis and Allies 
 carried out the war, were all historically accurate. The multi-player facet was a bonus that turned 
 out to be the shining glory of the game. There are thousands and thousands of servers running at 
 any given time, and you can jump in at your will.
  
  The graphics are top-notch, and the battlefields are well thought out and developed. The sound 
 is enthralling - the environments are always alive with gunshots and shouts, aircraft, and mortar 
 explosions.
  
  Can't get enough of this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dr0wnage_PhD
Rating: 9.9
Date: Sep 20, 2004 12:29 pm PT
Review:  When Call of Duty showed up on the scene it dethroned the Medal of Honor series as the king of 
 WWII shooters. It had better gameplay, graphics, sounds and unique special effects. Your heart 
 will pound and palms sweet when playing Call of Duty. The level of realism puts you out on the 
 battlefield in WWII in 3 different campaigns, the USA, British and Russians. It doesn't get better 
 than Call of Duty for a war shooter.
  
  Graphics: CoD uses a heavy modified version of the Quake 3 engine. You would never believe this 
 was the Q3 engine as it looks so incredible for such an old engine. The environements are pretty 
 big and have a lot of detail in the buildings, vehicles and gun models. The player models are very 
 well done as well. THe explosion effects and smoke are top notch. All in all the graphics set a 
 realistic tone for WW2.
  
  Sound: The audio really stands out on CoD. The gun sounds are very realistic and strong. THe constant 
 explosions and yells and screams coming from all the soldiers makes sure that there is always something 
 going on. The voice overs are fitting and professional sounding. The music sets the mood. You can 
 tell how intense the game is by the constant explosions and weapon sounds around you at all times. 
 Bullets whipping past your ear, explosions to your left and right, injured soldiers screaming for 
 medics. An very cool effect is you will hear ringing in your ears when an explosion lands right 
 near you and you will be partially deaf for a moment, very cool and realistic.
  
  Gameplay. The gameplay is just incredible in CoD. The action is so intense and hectic in many of 
 the levels. You will have 3 campaigns USA, UK and Russian. The begining Russian level in Red Square 
 may be the best level in the history of war FPS's. It is just something else, one of the best experiences 
 you can have and a showcase level of this incredible game. You are with teamates most o the levels 
 and you will be working in tandem to get to accomplish your goals. You will have a commander who 
 will lead you through your missions. The shooting is great you can aim down the sight for more 
 accuracy and you can quickly switch positions from standing, crouching and prone. There are also 
 solo missions where you will have to go more stealthy and sit back and snipe in cover. Those are 
 some of the most fun levels in the game for fans of sniping and stealth. CoD has some of the best 
 if not the best sniping ever in a game. It also adds variety to the levels. The multi-player is 
 also very good. There are a few different modes of play including mission objective based mode 
 and your standard DeathMatch and CTF modes, a lot of people play online and the community seems 
 to be very strong. So since the single player is only about 8 hours long you get unlimted value 
 with the multi-player. 
  
  CoD is reccomended for all gamers not just WW2 fans and not just FPS fans. The game is that good 
 that every gamer should have CoD in their library of games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: megazorro1615
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 19, 2004 4:07 pm PT
Review:  now before i say anything about this beautiful game, i gotta say first that i do not have it, of 
 course i'm gonna get it soon but right now i made this review because my cousin bought it, so it's 
 his game and he lend it to me. i gotta tell you guys, when first started playing, i was a little 
 amazed because the game seemed so cool that i just wanted it for myself, and what can i say, any 
 other true gamer would agree with me because this game has everything an action game should have. 
 Here is my review of call of duty. graphics 10/10, gameplay 10/10, sound 10/10, value 10/10, tilt 
 10/10, colors and contrsts 10/10, weapons 10/10, enemies 10/10, environment 10/10, surroundings 
 10/10 and finally entire game all together is a ten out of 10, you might even say its perfect, 
 because it just is like many other games i've reviewed 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Xiaor
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 18, 2004 7:06 pm PT
Review:  This game cannot even be explained in words. I have been playing this game for 1 1/2 yrs, for about 
 30 at least a day. Sometimes, up to 4 hrs in one day. 
  
  So with this review i have alot of exp. I have played through the single player portion of the 
 game, and enjoyed it alot. Compared to the MOH games, COD is the king right now in my opinon. The 
 graphics are very good, and the single player, although linear as most ww shooters are, its got 
 some great scripted moments, that do a great job of pulling you into the action.
  
  The multiplayer in COD is what makes this game last. Once i started playing it, i met a few ppl 
 on vent. and teamspeak and formed a clan. And i have so far been playing for a yr. and a half. 
 Which is the longest i've ever played anygame besides Jedi Outcast that long.
  If your able to get into a clan or group of ppl, this game becomes part of you, which keeps you 
 coming back, night after night.
  
  The new expansion has just come out, and i'm sure ill be playing that for a good year as well. 
 Diffently worth every penny. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gumpo
Rating: 9.2
Date: Sep 17, 2004 12:25 pm PT
Review:  I've just recently had the honor of playing through a good portion of CoD, and i must say it is 
 much better than i had expected it to be. Initially i had looked at it as just a run of the mill 
 game, and didn't understand why yet another WWII era shooter was getting rave reviews. I mean, 
 it had your everyday multiplayer options, average graphics, and generic looking singleplayer gameplay 
 as well.
  
  Once i gave it a chance, though, i found out why it was given such good reviews. Once you get into 
 the game, you start to actually feel like your in the midst of a real war. A combination of realistic 
 movements, animations, weapons, sounds, and voice acting, provide one of the most immersive environments 
 i have ever had the pleasure of witnissing in a game.
  
  As i watched my teammates fight, i noticed something frightening. They were actually fairly intelligent 
 most of the time. CoD has some of the best AI for both your teammates and enemies i have encountered 
 - Enemies flank you and throw grenades, and teammates crawl and hide appropriately, its just so 
 cool.
  
  The rest of the aspects of the game are pretty much standard fare, but with the excellent single 
 player gameplay, CoD turns out to be one hell of a game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Eagles_Eye_01
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 4, 2004 3:27 pm PT
Review:  I loved this game. The immersion, the AI, the sound, the graphics, everything! Amazing that this 
 was made from the grainy old quake 3 eh? The multiplayer was great too! Most WW2 multiplayer is 
 strictly objective based and nothing else, like day of defeat. Now, theres team deathmatch, deathmatch, 
 hold the radio, and more! In multiplayer levels the tables can turn very easily. You can be guarding 
 a building with an MG firing at the enemy spawning in another building and five minutes later your 
 spawn is a block down the way. Then you would be fighting the enemy in, say, a field! I also liked 
 how they made the animations in single player look a lot like in multiplayer. This game can be 
 really hard to, even on normal, but it's easy to pick up. For people who want to just drink it 
 all in and absorb the story, play easy, it will be hard enough :-D. 
  
  A few things I did not like about the game are the deathmatch mode and a few bugs. Deathmatch just 
 wasnt meant to be in a WW2 shooter. Team deathmatch I felt mostly the same but atleast you have 
 people by your side. One bug I encountered was when you got to a certain place in single player, 
 a script did not activate and your guys wouldnt move. ANOTHER thing I didn't like was the fact 
 that part of the british campaign had you goin in lone wolf style. It's like they expected that 
 everyone would want a few lone wolf missions in the game to be similar to other WW2 shooters (Medal 
 of Honor) . But the mission after it makes up for it. I won't spoil it but if you get the game and 
 get to that one british mission where you're all alone expect a fun mission afterwards :-D. Get 
 this game, get the expansion pack coming out in.... whoa its only 2 weeks from now! If you liked 
 enemy territory, then you wil probably like this expansion pack. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LiK
Rating: 9.6
Date: Sep 4, 2004 1:09 am PT
Review:  This was great fun. If you loved the Medal of Honor series than this will blow you away. I really 
 enjoyed the emphasis with teammates. You really feel like you're part of a band of brothers. It's 
 unlike any other WWII FPS game out there because you feel like you're working in a team. It's very 
 cinematic and incredibly immersive. The graphics are solid and the sound is amazing. The difficulty 
 is just right and I never found myself quitting because of the difficulty. The scripted events 
 were nicely done and very well thought out. It's even better than MOH in that area. Superb. A must 
 have. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Voodoo2k3
Rating: 9.3
Date: Aug 30, 2004 7:25 pm PT
Review:  At first Call of Duty seems like one of those over-hyped games that's almost like a MOH expansion. 
 But this is probably due to the lackluster British campaigns. When playing the Amercian and Russian 
 campaigns you get this "gamer's rush" that makes you want more of the intense battles, explosions 
 and what not. 
  Call of Duty may be using an upped version of the Quake III engine, but it's a a hell of a game. 
 
  
  CODs graphics are good, but not groundbreaking, not for a long shot. But they deliver enough punch 
 to surround you with HUGE environments, explosions and tons of soldiers running, shooting and falling. 
 The engine is detailed enough to make all this happen at once and still look good doing it. And 
 as long as you have a decently powerful system, you'll experience it all smooth as a babies bottom. 
 The game is a joy ride. 
  
  The gameplay is similiar to Medal of Honor: Allied Assaults's, especially the HUD, remember the 
 ol' compass? But the great selection of weapons, the vehicle levels where you shoot from the back 
 or out windows, tanks. It's all a rush. 
  
  The AI, is like Max Payne 2, quantity over quality, the Nazi's will go behind walls and lean around 
 but they will also make bad calls and move into your fire. With dozens of them running around at 
 once this holds the game at a certain level of difficulty. Not going beyond a gamer's ability. 
 The enemies don't die like rats mind you, they are respectively intelligent and can still trick 
 you at times. Their aim is a little too good though. 
  
  Also the footage and real video from WWII make the game feel so much more real, after completing 
 a mission then see real images of the battlefield make you say "wow" because the battlefields you 
 just fought on looked almost exactly as they really did, it makes you feel like you were actually 
 there. Few games can do such a thing to a player. 
  
  The sound is good. It's got amazing musical scores that suite the feel perfectly. Some sound effects 
 may get repetative like the alarms that continuously ring, the machine guns on tanks that just 
 don't quit. Or maybe the same groan from a dying soldier repeated. But more often than not they 
 are outstanding. 
  
  Although the single player game is short, spanning 3 campaigns (American, British, Russian) . There's 
 tons of multiplayer action that's just as awesome as the single player game that should keep you 
 entertained for a while to come. For the price-tag, Call of Duty is well worth it. 
  
  Until WWII games get the Half-Life 2 engine, ragdoll physics and havoc physics. Call of Duty will 
 remain the game that'll make you say "Medal of what?" 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dawgz_Homies
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 27, 2004 4:02 pm PT
Review:  I dont know if i'll ever get tired of World War 2 games, cause they keep getting better and better! 
 And Call Of Duty is a perfect example of that. Now whats so amazing about this game is that its 
 one of the first FPS's out of the 1000's out there that has a highly immersive single player campaign 
 and an exceptional multiplayer mode. Single player has you playing three different ally countries. They 
 are U. S, Britain and Russia. All of the campaigns are equally good but the Russian stands out the 
 most! When you first play it you will instantly notice that almost every single aspect of it was 
 taken out of the movie: Enemy At The Gates. Now thats not a bad thing (at least in my opinion) for 
 this makes all the more immersive! You start out in a boat (no this is not omaha!) and you make 
 your way to the shores of Stalingrad. You have no gun but just a little bit of ammo and you have 
 to follow someone with a gun until he gets shot so you can take it. There is so much more, i am sorry 
 if i have destroyed some of the experience for you just by revealing that little bit. Anyway, the 
 main point is if you haven't done so yet, go out immediately and BUY THIS GAME! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 20059207203748300218075590909310-way_2_baked
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 26, 2004 9:47 pm PT
Review:  there have been many WWII games released, some are stradegy games, and most of them are FPS's, 
 but no other WWII game has been as fun and intense as call of duty.
  
  in the game you play as 3 different sides: American, Russian, and British. theres not much different 
 about the 3 campaigns besides the weapons and characters, but there all equally as fun and about 
 the same length. the game isnt terribly long, while it has 24 single player missions, but they're 
 all so much fun that you'll be playing them over and over again. but the game is so intense its 
 hard to play for more than an hour.
  
  call of duty has some great graphics. everything is very detailed and good to look at from the 
 character models, buildings, weapons, and other objects all look great, especially in the levels 
 where its snowing, everything has frost and snow on it and it looks very realistic. it also has 
 a cool efect called shelshock, where if you get too close to an explosion it will knock you down 
 and the screen will become blurry and the sound becomes muffled and you hear a loud screeching 
 noise thats supposed to be the ringing in your ears. this only lasts a couple of seconds, but its 
 really cool. the explosions in the game look great too, like when you blow up a tank, blow up a 
 door, throw a grenade, or a morter explodes, it looks great. not the best, but its pretty good. 
 
  
  the sound is also very good. weapon sounds and explosions sound very realistic. you can also hear 
 little detailks like shells casings hitting the ground and your gear moving with you, its all very 
 detailed. but to get the best out of it, you have to have 24-bit 5.1 surround sound system. the 
 sound quality is much better and you can hear things you couldnt hear with normal sound like debris 
 falling on the ground afetr an explosion and bullets whizzing by you. but it still sounds pretty 
 good of you have normal speakers and 16-bit sound, but the experience wont be as good.
  
  the game also has some kick ass online multiplayer. this is the best part of the game. there are 
 many different modes to play such as deathmatch, team deathmatch, search and destroy, and more. 
 but the best is deam deathmatch. this is hoghly addictive and a ton of fun. you can play as either 
 American, Russian, British, and German. each are pretty much the same except for the different 
 weapons. but look out for cheaters, cause theres alot of them.
  
  overall, this game is kick ass in every way and is, in my opinion, the best WWII game out there. 
 so if you dont have it already go buy it now.
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: markrada26
Rating: 8.9
Date: Aug 26, 2004 7:37 pm PT
Review:  To summarize Call of Duty in a couple of sentences, I would have to say this: Call of Duty is with 
 out doubt one of the greatest shooter games ever made, even though it's set in WWII like many other 
 shooters, this one sets itself apart from the rest by focusing on more than just the American story. 
 Instead this game focus' on other key battles and brings them to life magnificently.
  
  Call of Duty - 44/50
  
  Storyline - 11.5/15
  
  WWII has been done before in many different 
 games, but this game sets itself apart from the rest by having three different campaigns: American, 
 British, and Russian. Each one better than the last. The story lines of the of the three campaigns 
 are also quite unique, as they each have there own type of unique mission or battle such as the 
 tank missions in the Russian campaign or when you cripple the legendary German warsihp Tirpitz. 
 You also get to partake in several big battles during the war like: Pegasus Bridge, Stalingrad, 
 and the battle for Berlin.
  
  Gameplay - 11/12
  
  The gameplay experience in Call of Duty is like no other shooter that you have played before. You 
 are not just a one man army taking on hundreds upon hundreds of German soldiers with a handgun 
 and a couple of grenades. In this game you are on a team of about 20 people to start and that shrinks 
 until you have to doi the one man grenade thing for a coupleof levels and then grows again. Your 
 war buddies there also have good AI they can take a tank themselves or just commit suicde by running 
 recklessly at thte enemy. They can throw grenades and give you cover or support when needed. The 
 controls in the game are also good and need little adjusting. The levels you play in a car though 
 can be a little rough considering they didn't have a suspension system, which just adds to the 
 realism. Also you have bombs landing everywhere, ditches to hide in or cows to hide behind. All 
 together making for a very realistic WWII experience.
  
  Graphics - 9/10
  
  The graphics in Call of Duty are superb to say the least, and you don't need the best graphics 
 card out there to have them either. The level of detail is good everywhere in the game from the 
 grass to facial detail of your captain. All animations run smoothly without little jumps or freezing. 
 MIssion breifings are good and the short video from WWII at the end of the game was of high quality 
 (as high quality as video footage from 1945 gets) . And the way jerries come at you when you get 
 close enough is almost scary.
  
  Sound - 7.5/8
  
  The sound from this game is amazing, every little sound effect cued on time and music to set the 
 mood fits in perfectly and the music from those gramaphones is also of good classical taste. Voices 
 are well done, especially when you hear a jerry yell "GRENADE".
  
  Fun-O-Metre - 5/5
  
  This game is extremly fun and highly addictive. This game is great to play over and over again, 
 and then online which is even more fun providing no one is hacking. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Epicsoldier
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 25, 2004 9:10 pm PT
Review:  This game rules, The Single player story is great, it descibes the WW2 war good, and made a jump 
 for first person WW2 to compete with. The A. I isn't stupid, They actually did a great job on the 
 A. I, The way the whole single player experience is set up is great. It's not just based around 
 one side of the war either, You play as German, British, American, and russian so you get each side 
 of the war and the different parts of it. Being as you get to be the different sides of it, also 
 means that you get to use a number of different weapons. Graphics and sound are good to.
  
  Some missions will have you following your teammates, some will have you going off and doing things 
 to help your team get by the ememy. Your teammates aren't stupid either, they are smart and don't 
 just stand there while they are getting shot at!.
  
  The Multiplayer, Is amazing. For Lan gaming people it's very very fun and addicting, It'll be all 
 quiet and all you hear is background gun fire then *BANG* one sniper shot to the head, if you have 
 a sniper and on a sniper level that is. If you have your speakers turned up it'll actually make 
 you jump. This game belongs in any FPS's collection for sure. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Element_TAW
Rating: 9.8
Date: Aug 24, 2004 6:33 pm PT
Review:  Call of Duty, simply put, is one of the best fast-paced online games out on the market today. The 
 game offers endless online fun, with great variety in weapons, maps, and characters. The game is 
 beautifully done for the Quake 3 engine and has very few problems of any kind. The support for 
 the game is outstanding, with the release of multiple patchs (which show the developer cares about 
 the people that play the game) and a new expansion pack coming out. The single player campaign, 
 which I will mention for dexterity, is also exciting and fast paced with well thought out levels 
 of difficulty. The game takes its cue from famous war movies and miniseries such as Band of Brothers 
 and Enemy at the Gates. Many famous skirmishes of WWII are featured in both the multiplayer and 
 single player modes. I would strongly recommend this game for everyone! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SuParNovA
Rating: 9.3
Date: Aug 24, 2004 4:04 pm PT
Review:  Yes, it has beaten N1: Return to castle wolfenstein on my list of best WO2 games.
  When I started the singleplayer the first thing I toughts was, oh no this is just MoHAA with some 
 more effects. But -out of that- it's MUCH more. I enjoyed the game from the very beginning till 
 the bloody end. 
  
  Like you already knew is Call of Duty a WO2 first person shooter. First you play an American soldier 
 that will be promoted during campaigns. Later you will also be an English and a Russian soldier 
 those will be promoted after accomplishing missions. 
  The missions regenerate real battles what makes the game even more realistic.
  The allies know 
 much movements and shoot like real people. But the enemies are (of course) smart too. Anyway, the 
 varied single player will never bore ... and if you've completed it (after rouglhy 12 hours) you 
 still have the awesome multiplayer.
  At the moment, this multiplayer is one of the most played games at the world.
  
  Well ... in 
 short, the game is very varied and realistic.
  This game is not only the best WO2 game but also the best PC game so far.
  
  It deserves the 
 9.3
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Big-Dog
Rating: 9.4
Date: Aug 24, 2004 8:17 am PT
Review:  Gameplay:
  
  Call of Duty features a good mix of gameplay from 3 different perspecitves: US, UK and Russian 
 troops. Most of the game has you fighting through various locations on foot although a few levels 
 you get to drive a tank. AI controlled team-mates accompany or at least assist you on the majority 
 of missions and really add to the gameplay experience. Like MOHAA the AI is sublime - taking cover, 
 working as a team, using grenades. You'll find yourself fighting in a mixture of tight spaces and 
 more open environments.
  
  Iron sights make a nice addition to the game.
  
  One of the best bits about Call of Duty is the atmosphere it creates - the Russian levels particularly 
 have movie like qualities - (River crossing blatanlty ripped from "Enemy at the Gates") - you're 
 team mates will call out, you'll see people all around engaging in thier own stuggles to survive 
 music will kick in at the appropriate moment and you'll fall to your knees in a haze after a near 
 miss from shell.
  
  Graphics:
  
  All round good quality graphics. Weapon models and character models all too a good level of detail. 
 Nice effects when you survive near miss shell bombardments.
  
  Sound:
  
  Excellent sound, music kicks in at certain moments, friendlies and enemies call out, weapons all 
 pack quite a punch.
  
  Value:
  
  You can find a collection of mods and maps although IMO they're not too a great standard but the 
 mutliplayer will last you a while although the singleplayer campaign is reasonably short.
  
  Conclusion:
  
  Great game! A tad short but well worth a second play through. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kuruptt
Rating: 9.6
Date: Aug 21, 2004 9:21 am PT
Review:  Yes i can say that this game is totally C-R-A-Z-Y we are waitin the Expansion Pack for new Suprises 
 ... the game was very realistic uhhh the Russian Missions the first one i forgot... was very realistic 
 those fire's everywhere machine gun's killing all Revolution Poeples that was forced To Fight by 
 comrade's .. the graphic its very nice i can say again now for the graphic that this game in all 
 ways is very realistic the Activision for the first time dit a game like this .. the bad point 
 in this game was that this game has more than 30 missions if it was someTin like 100 missions ohhh 
 i will liked it so i like this game and we will wait for the expansion too see new 2 Battles battle 
 of Kursk' so we will hope that the Expansion pack will be very nice much much better than the Call 
 of Duty One.. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fett35
Rating: 9.6
Date: Aug 18, 2004 9:29 pm PT
Review:  Call of Duty is an immersive, moving experience that captures the best of the FPS genre. The World 
 War II theme had pretty much run its course in FPS games, but Call of Duty dismisses that notion 
 by feeling both familiar and brand new. Every level has the excitement of the Normandy landing 
 level in Allied Assault. This is the best war themed shooter developed to date.
  
  (Reviewed on a 3.0GHz P4 with 1 GB RAM, Radeon 9800 256MB video, Soundblaster Extigy)
  
  GAMEPLAY: 
 10
  
  Not since Mafia has a game so completely captured an environment and successfully placed the player 
 in the middle of it. The player feels like a part of a larger campaign, rather than a lone soul 
 taking on the evils of the axis in WWII. The games controls are fluid, intuitive, responsive, 
 and easy to grasp. Minor annoyances in other shooters, like getting stuck on corners, do not exist 
 in Call of Duty. The game also has that wonderful quality of other well-done shooters: the player 
 cannot wait to get to the next level and see what challenges lurk there. Furthermore, this is a 
 shooter, plain and simple. For thoseof which I am onewho do not like random puzzle-solving or 
  present in other shooters, CoD represents a refreshing change: 
 the levels are clearly laid out and the only challenge you face is clever AI enemies rather than 
 some jump-at-the-right-moment tomb raider rip-off.
  
  The AI is pretty good at taking cover and defending itself. It reacts well to comrades being shot, 
 and tends to attack in groups rather than one-at-a-time. 
  
  GRAPHICS: 9
  
  While not as earth-shattering as some new-generation shooters like Far Cry and UT2004, Call of 
 Duty is very nice to look at. It runs at a smooth frame rate, and the character models and environment 
 textures are very well done. There arent any clipping problems or issues with the characters interacting 
 with the environment. The one complaint is in the fire and explosion effects, which are merely 
 serviceable. Overall, the graphics are pretty well done.
  
  SOUND: 9
  
  CoD sounds great. The weapons sound good, the shouts of your enemies are in their native tongue, 
 and the chatter of your brothers in arms is ongoing without being repetitive. The second level 
 in particular, where you are amongst several 20mm guns firing on a continuous basis is one of the 
 strongest, sound wise, in the game. The sound effects add to the overall realism of the game, adding 
 an element of confused fun missing from every other shooter on the market.
  
  VALUE: 9
  
  Even months after its release, CoD is still in the $40 to $50 range. This is a testament to 
 its quality, however, and is well worth the price. This WWII shooter tops every other one to come 
 to market before it, and competes very well with other non-WWII themed games.
  
  TILT: 10
  
  I havent had this much fun with a shooter since Mafia. Its well done, plays well, 
 is challenging without being unfair or frustrating. Most of all, though, it is immersive and addictive. 
 One cannot wait to see what is next.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ANSteve
Rating: 9.6
Date: Aug 13, 2004 12:16 pm PT
Review:  When Call of Duty arrived on the scene at E3 2003 I was really amazed at what I saw. The trailer 
 showed off some of the impressive technical aspects of the game, but more than that it really drew 
 me in. With all the hype surrounding so many other first person shooters I was shocked to say this 
 looks like the best one of the all. Well, later that year Call of Duty was released and it didnt 
 disappoint.
  
  Gameplay  Call of Duty provides realistic, gritty, WW2-style FPS action. You play as an American, 
 British, and Russian soldier and fight (for the most part) alongside decent allies. If you remember 
 fighting along side the marines in Halo its a very similar experience, except with allies trained 
 in the 1940s. For the most part of the game requires you to cover your allies, win shootouts, 
 flank enemies and use your grenades wisely. The few issues with the gameplay are repetitive parts, 
 the commando-style missions stray from the theme of the game, and the enemy AI could use a small 
 tune-up to match the allied AI (but thats no real complaint.) Overall, Call of Duty is the best 
 playing World War 2 game to date.
  
  Graphics  Call of Duty provides a sound graphical representation of World War 2. The character 
 models are realistic, the animations are very well done  particularly on the American allies. 
 The game features all the normal technologies you see in games these days including real-time dynamic 
 lighting, volumetric smoke and more. Along with some new effects including extremely well done 
 explosion (you get to blow up a lot!)
  
  Sound  Call of Duty rivals the best in the gaming world for orchestral scores and realistic sound 
 effects. The voiceovers are solid and use well by the AI, the guns sound almost as good as they 
 do in Medal of Honor, and the score varies well to fit the different mood of the German, French, 
 and the Soviet arenas.
  
  Value  Call of Duty provides a solid 4-part campaign that lasts about 24 hours. Its broken into 
 24 missions  8 American, 6 British, 10 Soviet. Of course, it features multiplayer. The multiplayer 
 features 5 different game types including team deathmatch that is brought to new heights by the 
 kill cam, maps of Call of Duty, and fast paced action they bring. Overall, its a solid value for 
 the mere $30 these days.
  
  I highly recommend Call of Duty as the best first person shooter we have seen in awhile. Its innovative, 
 smart AI, 4-part campaign, great multiplayer, solid graphics and phenomenal sound make ii an easy 
 candidate for game of the year.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rigges
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 11, 2004 8:11 am PT
Review:  This is what you call being "In" the game. The Atmosphere is infectious; the sound is a collage 
 of constant gunfire and people shouting at you from all angles. It really pulls you in to world 
 war 2 and I played it first time on the hardest level just to get all the tension I could possible 
 muster out of it!. 
  The graphics although very nice, still seem a little dated to me (I guess its just the engine they 
 are running on) and I crave for a story that sucks you in as much as the gameplay did! 
  To sum up, missing this would be like missing your wives birthday! (Dont do it!!!!) ENJOY!!!
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ryrock
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 27, 2004 9:06 pm PT
Review:  This game is great. The multiplayer is great. The single player campaign is phenomenal. The graphics 
 are great. Well, you get the point. However, like I said earlier, the single player campaign is 
 good and well built up. It's what really stands out. It gives you three different perspectives 
 on the war: Americans, British and Russian. The Russian campaign really stands out. It begins where 
 you are a mere peasant drafted into war. You are sent in with others like you; no weapons, armor 
 or training. You go in on a shabby boat, and emerge on land to recieve your weapons. Unfortunately, 
 the Russian military doesn't give weapons to peasants, as they're used as cannon fodder. You're 
 sent in to find a weapon all by yourself. It's also very intense, because no matter what you're 
 doing mortars, machine guns and missiles will be going off. Multiplayer is just as great. You can 
 play as the Allies (U. S, British, Russians) or Axis (German) . There's many multiplayer modes to 
 play with, so the fun never ends! I highly recommend this game. There's tons of action and it never 
 gets old. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KingFrizzy
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jul 24, 2004 12:06 pm PT
Review:  This game is really awesome. The single player is one of the best I've played in years, as far 
 as war games go. The multiplayer mode isn't that great though, and it'll fizzle out pretty quick. 
 But really, the single player mode is quite intense and atmospheric. It's one of the best war first 
 person shooters I've ever played before, if not the very best. The graphics are pretty weak, but 
 the sound is amazing. Really though, the game is very solid and is highly recommendable to anyone 
 who's a little interested in a world war II game. If you've got the money and don't care about 
 a less than stellar multiplayer mode, but care for an amazing single player campaign, Call of Duty 
 fits the bill. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ummagumma
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jul 5, 2004 4:24 am PT
Review:  You'd be hard pressed to find an FPS so immersive, that increases your heart rate and so soundly 
 brings the chaos and intensity of combat to your monitor screen. Sure, each of its sections takes 
 their inspiration from classic war movies, from "A Bridge Too Far" to "Enemy at the Gates", but 
 why not steal from the best? And everything is done with such style, from the byzantine level design 
 to the pounding sound effects, that you won't mind the familiarity.
  
  Probably the best angle in the game is that you "never fight alone", accompanied by squadmates 
 that duck behind cover with you and add their own withering cover fire to your advances. Unfortunately 
 these mates are disposable and interchangeable, you never really feel a loss when one of them get 
 cut down. As well, the movement between sections is jarring; one moment you're an American grunt, 
 the next a British paratrooper. But still, any complaints about the game are cosmetic, and do nothing 
 to tarnish one of the greatest war-based FPSes ever, which includes, with the Leningrad mission, 
 probably the greatest level design ever in a PC game. Top notch stuff. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: covenant130
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 30, 2004 10:50 pm PT
Review:  Ok, right off the bat, i have to say i was really getting tired of all the WWII FPS out there, 
 and then comes along this game. I picked it up because i heard good things about it and thought 
 hey what the heck.... and the fun begins. This game is one of my favorite games of all time, although 
 im really getting tired of the WWII genre. The singleplayer is AWESOME. Some levels are short but 
 hey, there are quite a bit of levels to go through. The fun really begins when you get to the multiplayer 
 though. Thats the true reason the game is so good nowadays. It has WWII multiplayer to bash BF 
 1942 to the ground. The graphics are great and the sounds of the weaponry were takin from real 
 life, so whoever says the sound is bad is dead wrong. It really gets fun though, when your playin 
 a scrunched level on multiplayer with 59 other people. Now thats complete mayhem.
  
  If you are a fan of the FPS genre, or the WWII genre, then this is the game for you, even without 
 the multiplayer experience this is one awesome title that anyone should pick up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dstark9
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jun 23, 2004 6:32 pm PT
Review:  I recently bought this game. I have to say I did enjoy the game. I thought the graphics were fair. 
 They were pretty close to medal of honor. I figured they would have changed a tad, but it was pretty 
 much the same. The realism of the gameplay was actually pretty impressive. There were quite a few 
 levels where I got chills. It was pretty intense with your fellow comrades screaming and yelling. 
 (especially the Russian levels) I will say the one level playing Red Square is an unforgettable 
 level. The sound in this game is great. It really made you in a small way feel like you were fighting 
 in the war. I was very impressed. The music background in some of the levels were very touching, 
 especially on one level where there was a soft soothing song playing in the background and bullets 
 buzzing by you and your fellow comrades screaming and dying. That was a pretty interesting level. 
 I bought this game at a pretty good price at $29, so the value of the game now is pretty decent. 
 The one thing I have to say about this game that I did not like was how short the game was. I was 
 finished in 5 days. I really didn't spend that much time playing either. I probaly finished the 
 game in about 6 hours. The levels were very short also. It seemed like alot of levels you could 
 finish in less than two minutes. For a reviewers tilt, I will probaly go back and play certain 
 levels, but will do it at harder mode. I played in normal mode and it was pretty easy.
  All in all I would strongly advise to buy this game. It is well worth the price since it has dropped 
 dramastically. I have not played multiplayer to much, but it seemed decent enough. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JimmyRules
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jun 17, 2004 8:36 am PT
Review:  The only reason I am not going to give this game a higher mark is because the entire market is 
 saturated with WWII games. Come on people, how many times can you fight in the same war? It was 
 fun in Medal of Honor but after two years, I personally am tired of the scene. But now that I'm 
 done complaining, on to the game. The game itself was very entertining however, the entire game 
 is scripted beyond belief. Things happen whether you do it or not. I loved the idea of being part 
 of an infantry and fighting beside my fellow soldiers however, if I decide to hide behind a bush, 
 the whole mission will practically solve itself. Trun the difficulty up so that your fellow soldiers 
 all die and you can count on a frustrating experience. There is a tremendous amount of drama in 
 the game which is nice, but the scripting takes away from it. Run through the game once and it 
 is a very compelling experience but after that, the replay value exists only in multiplayer. And 
 that is something that feels like an old hat being that it isn't much different than Medal of Honor. 
 In short. Call of Duty IS what Medal of Honor needed to be in terms of presentation. Take away 
 the scripting and I may have enjoyed it better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Xcalibrknight
Rating: 9.9
Date: Jun 13, 2004 9:57 am PT
Review:  Hands down the best WWII game to date, and my vote for game of the year. The fun was non-stop and 
 multiplayer mode just adds to the replay value. My favorite levels are the russian campaign, especially 
 the start of it. The accuracy of the game included russian officers with bullhorns announcing they'll 
 shoot anyone taking "one step back", the attitude of the average russian soldier (as compared to 
 americans or british) , and the sound... crank up your speakers when you play, you won't be disappointed.
 
  
  Graphics, sound, and intense fighting all around you all add to the immersion of the game. To say 
 this series will be a continued hit is a no brainer 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Goldfox
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 6, 2004 10:46 pm PT
Review:  Call of Duty, is as close to world war two as it gets. It sports the best singleplayer I have ever 
 played. This isnt like Medal of Honor where you play as a lone wolf. CoD emphasises teamwork and 
 having AI that will actually HELP you and coordinate with you as a squad. It is also not as heavily 
 almost smothered in scripted actions that you can set your watch to. Things are unpredictable, 
 you can actually get killed by mortar fire and machine guns dont follow close behind you for effects, 
 they actually aim for you. (Cept one part ^_^)
  
  The game follows not just one man but three. You will play as an American following the airborne 
 on and before D-Day. You will become a British soldier and go on some sabotague missions and destroy 
 vital German bridges. And you will also play as Alexei, a Russian conscript where you will run 
 up Stalingrad, through red square, become a sniper, and even conquer the Reichstag itself.
  
  The game has superb graphics, and sound effects that will blow you away. It makes you actually 
 feel like your a part of that battle. Unlike Medal of Honor, you also have the option to look through 
 the iron sights of your weapon.
  
  The most intense level I have ever played in my history of gaming, are both Stalingrad and Red 
 Square. You are on a boat crossing the Volga river up to the besieged Stalingrad. When you get 
 there, there is actually a line to recieve your weapon on the battlefield. The Russian supply is 
 so thin, only every other soldier gets a rifle. Thats right, it ain't you. So you are forced to 
 run on a suicide mission up a massive hill against German MG42s.
  
  Redquare is the same, but you may pick up a rifle from a dead comrade. But there is an interesting 
 twist to these Russian levels. When your comissar says "Dont turn your back on mother Russia" he 
 means it. You will be fired upon by your own men in you take even one step backwards.
  
  CoD has one of the best multiplayers I have ever seen. There are DM, TDM, S&D (Search and Destroy) , 
 BEL (Behind Enemy Lines, kind of like duck duck goose in a way) , Retrieval, and HQ (Headquarters, 
 or King of the Hill)
  
  In multiplayer you may play as Germans, Russians, Americans, or British. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Docto878
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 6, 2004 10:30 pm PT
Review:  This is the game that got me hooked on PC FPS games. Everything was perfect. The AI was smart yet 
 fair. The game made you think but the play was logical and fair. You can also save on the fly. 
 There were scenes that made me feel like I was in the middle of the battle. Your friends were helpful 
 yet somehow always let you lead the action. They would never get in your way or do something stupid. 
 If you buy one FPS, then this is the one. This game is ten times better than Far Cry. First of 
 all you do not need a NASA computer to run the game and the AI is a hundred times better. Go get 
 this game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ocbarry
Rating: 9.8
Date: May 11, 2004 8:49 am PT
Review:  To sum up what you are going to read below: This is the BEST FIRST PERSON SHOOTER EVER MADE!!
 
  Yes, i said it. I have played just about every FPS that's worth anything, and COD tops them all. 
 Although the missions are linear, they are a lot more wide open than my former favorite WW2 FPS, 
 Medal of Honor.
  The graphics are top notch, the enemy AI is great, and, for the first time, squadmates are not 
 total retards. If you feel like going all-out Rambo in this game, stand by to get killed. Your 
 computer-controlled squadmated lay done suppression fire, cover your flank, and actually don't 
 just take up space on the computer!!
  Buy this game as it is already a classic. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ultron87
Rating: 8.9
Date: May 7, 2004 3:16 pm PT
Review:  Call of Duty is an excellent game. It captures the atmosphere of the second world war like no other 
 game has. You will feel like you are in an episode of Band of Brothers. The single player campaign 
 offers three sets of levels that are very different. The american campaign starts with you parachuting 
 into Normandy the night before the D-Day invasion. You quickly meet up with a squad and proceed 
 to raid a town. The action is very intense with bullets shooting past your head.
  
  The British campaign focuses on small unit actions and commmando assignments. The highlight is 
 the mission where you must defend a fortified position from a large enemy force. A timer counts 
 down and the minutes seem like hours.
  
  The Russian campaign is the best and last. It focuses on the battle of Stalingrad and begins with 
 a scene right out of Enemy at the Gates. It only gets better from there.
  
  Pick up this game if you want an intense and entertaining single player experience. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: orthancstone
Rating: 9.7
Date: May 6, 2004 1:22 pm PT
Review:  Call of Duty does many things impressively, including make the Q3 engine look modern even in 2003. 
 Yet despite working with the graphics as much as possible, it still performs great on lower end 
 machines; this fact alone sets it apart from other WWII shooters on the market.
  The gameplay of CoD is easy to learn; mastering it, though, requires learning when an action is 
 appropriate (this is more for the single player than multiplayer, although the fact applies in 
 MP too) . Certain situations call for an automatic weapon; other times, a single load rifle is best. 
 It is up to the player to determine which works best for them, but limiting the selection of weapons 
 one can hold forces the player to choose wisely.
  The sound in the game is a treat for anyone with a good audio setup. I'd be lying if I said I've 
 heard another game that comes close to CoD in the sound department; the weapon fire, long distance 
 mortar, speech, and more sound suberb and, in surround sound, are engrossing.
  Seeing as this is a FPS, the longevity of the game is found in MP. With several gameplay options 
 (like DM, Team DM, Search and Destroy, HQ, and more) , CoD is hardly boring if one makes sure to 
 try the different aspects of MP.
  I had no planned on buying a FPS for a while, but after playing the demos I picked up CoD without 
 much of a second thought. It is THAT good. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: -HighStakes-
Rating: 9.8
Date: May 5, 2004 9:52 pm PT
Review:  Let me make this clear, this is the best WWII shooter out there! This game is more than just shoot 
 and run, because this game focuses more on "team" than just you alone. Unlike Medal of Honor, you 
 will always have your teammates to fight hordes of Nazi's! Music is awesome, Graphics are great, 
 and multiplayer is just as awesome. However, the most interesting thing about this game is how 
 it move's with the actual events in the acutal war! The last mission was just one of the best levels 
 I have ever played in any video game to date! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kal_Rhael
Rating: 9.4
Date: May 4, 2004 6:09 am PT
Review:  No doubt world war 2 is a popular setting for first person shooters, but this time, you also get 
 to play through the western-front of a russian soldier, on the eastern, you play through american 
 and british soldiers, each a unique campaign of the game, which makes it three in total. It's not 
 a long game, skilled players can sweep through the game in around 6 hours.
  
  For skilled players, you'll find the game rather easy on moderate difficulty, so it is recommended, 
 to choose the second hardest difficulty. 
  
  First you start off as an american soldier in training, they show you basic gameplay mechanics, 
 such as going prone, jumping over walls, planting explosives and such. 
  
  Something really unique about the game is it's car chases. You'll find yourself in a auto mobile 
 speeding through enemy lines, although you are not controlling the vehicle, your primary concern 
 is the loose the germans through most of the car chases. You'll find yourself leaning off the cars 
 window, with your Thomson sub-machine gun, and sometimes, you'll get ahold of a rocket launcher 
 ( remember aim for the driver not the guy's shooting you, two birds one stone eh? ;) ) .
  
  The games use of music, is extraordinary, you'll find it pitching in at the exact right momment, 
 at the climax right when your about to achieve victory, you'll find a soft patriotic song pitching 
 in. That adds to the experience, makes it seem like a scene right out of saving private ryan.
 
  
  You'll also fined familiar effects and objects, from movies. When you are almost hit by a mortar, 
 the sounds around you go very deep, that you can barely hear it, like in the beach landings in saving 
 private ryan, your vision would blurr, and move dazly. You'll also find yourself taking cover behind 
 dead cows :) 
  
  By far, the most unique experience is the russian campaign. You'll find nearly hundreds of soldiers 
 fighting at your side at stalingrad, also the music in this campaign, is extraordinary, it fits 
 the patriotic russian (motherland) theme perfectly. 
  
  Unfortunately, the game is extremely linear, not that it is a bad thing, when done right of course, 
 if you prefer more choices, this game may not be for you, but it is an amazing experience none 
 the less. Which is why this game deserves a 9.4 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KasOle
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 20, 2004 7:55 am PT
Review:  Exept the short single player campaign and the missing German campaign, Call of Duty is simply 
 the best WW2 shooter ever its not the most realistic but close and the gameplay in multiplayer 
 is perfect intense combat and good team play. The sounds one of the best i have heard and graphics 
 is satisfying, and as the patches came up the game just blows up to 10.0 becuse og the cool new 
 German skin and good map, i dont like the Russians but hey you can choose to foght against other 
 than them too! I love this game and cant wait to the expansion!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vidbusters
Rating: 9.4
Date: Mar 25, 2004 6:04 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay: Single player and multiplayer, the gameplay is excellent. The only thing that might slow 
 you down is a lack of top notch components or Internet connection speed.
  
  Graphics: They aren't completely earth shattering, but they are excellent, functional, realistic 
 and don't detract from the gameplay.
  
  Sound: The sounds of the weapons are realistic and absolutely amazing. I'd have to give it a perfect 
 score except there seems to be something lacking in the surround sound, despite the fact that it 
 has 7.1 capability. I have a Klipsch surround system tied into an Audigy card and I think the number 
 and location of sounds could have been improved, however I have to rate this game high in terms 
 of sound because the weapon sounds are phenomenal.
  
  Value: This game is a no-brainer, you must own it. Therefore, value = 10. Careful, it's highly 
 addidictive.
  
  Reviewer's Tilt: Somewhere between a 9-10, I gave it a 9 because I'm saving up my 10's. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: adambomb5060
Rating: 9.8
Date: Feb 19, 2004 9:12 pm PT
Review:  People, this is a work of art, and don't let anyone tell you otherwise. Simply an amazing game.
 
  
  Gameplay:
  Controls are tight and very responsive, which is key when you're trying to lean around a corner 
 and snipe the guy who's spraying bullets at you from behind his machine gun. The game is incredibly 
 immersive, which is felt especially in the Stalingrad level. You're in a boat, crossing the water 
 to the bank, planes are swooping at you, guns blazing, mortar and artillery rounds are exploding 
 all around, and an officer is shouting at you all the while. You get on dry land and they're giving 
 out guns and ammo, every other person gets a gun. Of course, you don't get one, you're running 
 up the bank, an explosion and you're on the ground, ears ringing, you get up and keep running, 
 but can hardly see. Bullets hit the ground all around you and go zipping past your ears. Meanwhile 
 all you have is 5 rounds of rifle ammo. Really people, this game can get you so caught up in the 
 moment sometimes, you'll be so relived to see those red hats appear in the distance during a losing 
 fight, and you'll be yelling for MOTHER RUSSIA.
  
  Grapics:
  Probably the worst part of the game, and that's not too shabby. They are slightly out dated, I 
 would have loved to see rag doll phisics for the dead bodies, but instead there are scripted deaths, 
 and you can crawl right through the bodies after they die. Seeing someone's face from the inside 
 shouldn't really happen. But, the amazing explosions and the faces redeem the game in this area.
 
  
  Sound:
  The sound is what make this game so immersive, you hear the bullets hit near you and zoom past 
 your ear. You hear the explosions, and sometimes silence after those explosions as your hearing 
 slowly comes back. You hear the shots fired and it makes you fear the thought of showing yourself 
 in the midst of such a fire fight. And the voice acting is first rate, and the charicatures of 
 the British and Russian speech are sometimes comical.
  
  Value:
  I don't have much to say here, but this is the long and short of it. The single player campaign 
 may not last long, but the multiplayer keeps you coming back for more. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Chrisart
Rating: 8.9
Date: Feb 9, 2004 6:06 pm PT
Review:  Welcome to World War 2, where many others have failed and Call of Duty has prevailed. Even since 
 the launch of the demo for this game ive wanted to get my hands on this and when I finally did 
 it was pure joy to the limit. Its one of those games that rather lives for the intense action and 
 fun realism than for the semi intense action and I can take a million bullets to the chest before 
 I die.
  
  As you run from cover to cover and see the german nazis swarming at you and all you can do is duck 
 and cover you giggle behind your safe computer screen. Watching your team leader screaming out 
 commands and you just go with the flow as a part of it. The speed is intense and you have to be 
 focused to know whats happening, bullet sounds flies past your ears and all you can do is get a 
 sound system that doesnt blow you off the chair. Your vision goes blurry if youre to close to a 
 grenade going off or mortar rounds blowing up around you. Was that your friend Timmy just flying 
 trough the air?
  
  From start to finish you hear the beautifull sounds of war, old rifles reloading and bullets flying 
 around. Nazis screaming commands while your squad leader tells you to keep your head down. This 
 is where you actually get a rush from being pinned down by a 12.7mm machine gun.
  
  Some scenes are taken from various movies, famous WW2 episodes and so on and it doesnt bother you. 
 It takes your favorite movie moments and puts you right into the action, from enemy by the gates 
 to saveing private ryan all you can do is smile as you kill those nazis.
  
  I have really no general complaint about this game, its well made and keep you on your toes trough 
 the whole thing. Its not perfect but not far from that title, you cant turn this off without feeling 
 the great aftershock of the world war 2 era. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Blinkfan9
Rating: 9.9
Date: Feb 4, 2004 5:36 pm PT
Review:  Im a huge WWII fan, and when i see a game based on it, i try it. I heard all of the reviews and 
 knew this was a good game. When i purchased it i thought it was going to be like a MOH title, boy 
 was i wrong. I am only 13 years old but i absoloutly think this title should be purchased by every 
 one who owns a computer, in other words, why are you reading this when you can be playing call 
 of duty. For those like me who are reading these reviews to be sure this is a good game, than i 
 reccomend you buy it. I am very into D-day, and this game starts with a D-day paratrooper mission, 
 which is by far the coolest i have played so far (i am still only in the middle of the british 
 missions.) You will start teh game as a member of teh US paratroopers, once you complete all of 
 those missions, you are in teh British campaign (which is teh furthest i have got) . Now i am pretty 
 sure that all 3 start on D-day, so far the first 2 did. I stil havent gotten to the multiplayer 
 part!!! Ill make this quick, multiplayer isnt as good as single, but of course it still is AWESOME. 
 Ill leave you with this, buy this game, and stop wasting time on this website. now IM going to 
 go play it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Alchemist64
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 25, 2004 7:13 pm PT
Review:  When was the last time you started playing a game and your jaw dropped. Call of Duty is such a 
 game. It provides excellent graphics, sound, gameplay, level design and scripting to draw you into 
 the midst of the campaign  you provide the nerve and a steady trigger finger. Be forewarned, this 
 is WWII  gritty, tough, intense!
  
  Your commanding officer will shout instructions to you and your mates during missions, fellow soldiers 
 will advance with you, providing cover fire, and looking for the same in return.
  
  The battlefield comes amazingly to life in this game  bullets whiz by (hopefully) , the shouts 
 and moans of your mates and the enemy can be heard over the crack of gunfire, artillery shells 
 and grenades rain down, overhead planes join the fray, tanks crash through walls, the enemy just 
 keeps coming  its all here  and it seems very real when your stranded on your belly in a field 
 using a dead cow for cover from a MG42!
  
  The missions in CoD are very well done. They are quite varied, require careful planning and execution 
 (instead of running about spewing bullets) , and consistently offer new challenges and surprises. 
 You spend time routing enemies out of hardened bunkers, leading charges across open ground, sneaking 
 through sewers, sniping from afar to provide cover, rescuing soldiers, driving tanks, etc. Quite 
 simply some of the best single-player Ive ever played  and Ive played a lot.
  
  Youll feel a sense of accomplishment as your CO thanks you for your efforts at the end of a particularly 
 tough mission, youll feel disappointed when you let a teammate down and he gets riddled with bullets 
 for your mistake. Youll die when you make mistakes or use poor judgment, quite a lot on the higher 
 difficulty settings. This games single player is as it should be  rewarding, challenging, close 
 to frustrating in the tough spots, but always fun. When you think your stuck, rethink your strategy, 
 try a different technique, you will find success and the sense of accomplishment that goes with 
 it.
  
  Well-balanced, fun online play is also offered and works well  five different multiplayer modes 
 are available, with the Search and Destroy/Retrieval modes giving the best gameplay experience 
  team based, objective based. Work with your teammates, or lose.
  
  Kudos to Infinity Ward for a superlative gaming experience! Saving Private Ryan was an amazing 
 WW2 movie, number one for its realism and heart  this is its gaming equivalent. I can offer no 
 higher praise. Buy it, experience it, enjoy it!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: zachmo
Rating: 7
Date: Jan 24, 2004 5:17 pm PT
Review:  I became more excited about this game as demos continued to be issued for most of the summer of 
 2003. Occasionally I would find myself in a dream lying in tall grass, looking beyond a splintered 
 fence at MG-42s sputtering and hearing distant German epithets. Imagine my excitement when I recieved 
 the game and loaded it up for the very first time?
  
  For the first few missions, I felt as if I had selected wisely the object of my excitement; I felt 
 as if this may be a new Operation Flashpoint, a game that had so much value not for its graphics 
 or sound but for its replayability and realism. These dreams were quickly dispelled, as I realized 
 that what we have here is a scripted, incredibly linear "War" game. I love the variability of OP; 
 the enemy seems to think and react differently for each time a mission is played. What do we have 
 here? A pretty bore; tanks that are easily dispatched with the unlimited supply of Panzerfausts 
 and infantry that doesn't have the tactical ability to form a line, much less fight a battle. I 
 uninstalled the game after a day of playing. I'm waiting for OP2. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gipper07
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 24, 2004 7:45 am PT
Review:  Call of Duty is by far the best WWII shooter ever made. I have played pretty much every WWII game 
 that has been made before, from Medal of Honor: Allied Assult, Battlefield 1942, and many many 
 more. What COD does is it does everything that has been done before (and some things that havent) , 
 but they do them better.
  
  The single player mode in itself is outstanding. You can pump FAR more than 10 hours into this 
 game if you beat it on the hardest level, which is quite difficult in itself. The gameplay is solid 
 as can be, with very very minor mediocre spots in it. Infinity Ward has done a great job transitioning 
 MOHAA into COD.
  
  The graphics (given you have a good card) are astounding. Don't give the graphics a bad review 
 because you are using an obsolete video card, buy a better one (Radeon 9800XT) , then review this 
 game. Everything is hard as nails in the graphics department, but there could have been some improvements. 
 Ragdoll physics would have been nice to see in this game, and would have added no more than enjoyment 
 value. All of the textures are nice running on the Quake 3 engine, and most of the time you can 
 barely tell the difference. The lighting effects are nice, but they could have been better.
  
  The sound in this game is the best sound that has ever been produced in a video game. There 
 I said it, and it is true. MOHAA had beautiful sound, really making you feel like you were right 
 there on Omaha Beach, and it did everything nearly perfectly. COD just one-ups them. There are 
 times in this game where you will find yourself in an extremely intense firefight (Defending the 
 Bridge) , and COD will start to play this sort of soft opera music you would expect to see in a 
 Saving Private Ryan or Enemy at the Gates.
  
  The value of this game is immense. You can play from three different viewpoints of the war, of 
 which I think the Russian campaign is the most enjoyable. This game makes everything feel so real, 
 giving you only bullets when you start as the Russian soldier (very Enemy at the Gates like) , and 
 you have to wait to find a gun under intensely heavy fire.
  
  COD 10/10
  Buy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SnuffDaddyNZ
Rating: 7
Date: Jan 21, 2004 6:42 am PT
Review:  This is a really great game, while it lasts. You see, I finished this game in less than 10 hours. 
 This wouldn't be so much of a concern if the multiplayer was anything good, instead it's mediocre. 
 It's pretty much a copy of what Return To Castle Wolfenstein brought 3 years ago, but instead of 
 enhancing that gameplay they just copied it directly - the only change made seems to be 1 life 
 per round.
  
  But the singleplayer is really, really good. In particular the Russian campaign seems to be the 
 highlight of the game. Too be honest, if you have played Medal Of Honour, or even RTCW, then you 
 don't need to play this game. But where Medal Of Honour only really had BIG atmosphere during the 
 beach assault, Call of Duty has it through the whole game - you DO feel like you are in the war. 
 The only problem with this atmosphere is it's not really dynamic, so for example on one mission 
 where I am escaping from a boat - the enemy does not bother to hunt you down, so you are only in 
 danger if you can be seen.
  
  One thing that bothered me about the enemy AI is that it can see through walls. For example in 
 on mission I hid behind a stair well, some German round down and shot me despite the fact I was 
 hidden. In it's defense however this kind of thing happens in lots of other games, this just happens 
 to be a really good game.
  
  Finally, the speech volume is way too low, and there is no visible adjustment. I must stress that 
 this is a very short game, a really GOOD game, but there is no replay value whatsoever and this 
 has really hurt the score I have given. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Metroid101
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jan 17, 2004 3:54 pm PT
Review:  A game like this should not go unnocited. And fourtunaetely it hasn't. Call of Duty, when I first 
 go it blew out the old Mohaa one man vs. all style of gameplay to, War is hell. In hell you need 
 buddies. 
  
  The gameplay is competely engrossing, most importantly, realistic. A head shot to a soldier will 
 kill them off in a hit, any other part of the body will severely damage you or the opponent. The 
 weapons are protrayed in a grand way, the type of weapons either deterrs your movement or it makes 
 you swifter. Either way, each of the weapons you will encounter and use have a potential to kill. 
 However, I've met some and very far between annoyances with the gamplay's AI. Your comrades, or 
 soldier buddies will sometimes, follow you relentlessly. That isn't a bad thing in a war to have 
 someone with you, however if you are under cover, and it is only enogugh for you, sometimes they 
 are in the open and shot at unless you move into a different location. The Eniemies AI seems to 
 work very well. 
  
  The graphics are amazing, and all is good and fast pased. The graphics of everyone is clear and 
 clean. The animations of your comrades never skip a beat, meaning that they are always moving realisticly, 
 not seemingly skpping a step. 
  
  
  
  
  The sound is literally flawless. All the sounds of war are here. A ballad of gunfire to the sounds 
 of gernades exploding is protrayed excellent. Did I mentionabout the voices? Top notch they are...
 
  
  
  
  
  The value of this game is very high. I am currently replaying the single missions for my second 
 time. The Multiplayer also makes this a worthy buy, although you might get frustrated at times 
 for how many times you might die, and the Gernades that are used so many times. 
  
  In conclusion, and logically saying, this is a great game, but there is no perfection in a game, 
 so in saying that, there were some things in this game that I liked and I didn't. On the overall, 
 however, it presents a game that will keep you playing...
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: IrishPunk
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jan 12, 2004 1:30 pm PT
Review:  Call of Duty Review
  
  So here is the latest World War II game. Let me say that Infinity Ward did an excellent job with 
 this game. They may have not done anything new for the FPS genre but they sure did make it allot 
 more fun. While the game has a very striking resemblance to Medal of Honor: Allied Assault. This 
 is not a bad thing after all Allied Assault was a great game (still is) . 
  
  The single player is filled with three campaigns and each mission is a blast. You start off as 
 an American soldier who missed his drop zone and you join another squad. You seen take over a nearby 
 village. After the American campaign you will start off as a British soldier. Then followed by 
 a Russian campaign starting in Stalingrad, which looks almost same to the movie Enemy at the Gates. 
 The first two missions actually look almost exactly the same. You also are the sniper another resemblance 
 to the game. Either way the single player is a blast while it lasts. The single player suffers 
 from being short. It only took me about 6 hours to beat. If you would rather have more quality 
 then quantity then you are in luck. Even if you dont every First Person Shooter fan would love 
 it.
  
  The multiplayer is however not as strong as the single player. Dont get me wrong. It is actually 
 quite fun but its just your standard shoot them up. Nothing new that has not been seen before. 
 It is fun none the less though. The one thing that I really do like in the multiplayer is that 
 allot of servers dont use the cross hair. Instead you use your gun sights to aim. While you move 
 slower your accuracy goes up. Infinity Ward has promised they will have a patch out that will add 
 a new mode called Headquarters. Which may or may not change how the multiplayer is.
  
  I used Call of Duty on one system with two different video cards. One being the Nvidia Geforce 
 2 GTS-V 64 MB, and the ATI Radeon 9800 PRO. I got great visuals out of both cards and there was 
 not a huge difference in quality. Obviously however I was using the Geforce 2 GTS-V on an 800x600 
 resolution and the 9800 PRO with a 1024x768. I did not have any major problems with either card. 
 The specs on the system I tested where as follows:
  
  Pentium 4 2.0ghz
  512 DDR RAM PC2100
  100 GB hard drive
  Nvidia Geforce 2 GTS-V 64 MB/ ATI RADEON 9800 PRO 128mb
 
  
  In concluding I would just like to say Call of Duty is simply a great game and if you even have 
 a small interest in First Person Shooters you should pick it up. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Violator_ss
Rating: 9.7
Date: Dec 29, 2003 6:59 pm PT
Review:  I recommend this game on every PC in every household in the World. Despite some slight drawbacks 
 this game is outright the greatest World War duplication ever. I was completely in awe and blown 
 awe by its sound, subtle conversation between figures in the game, and pure gaming value. The multiplayer 
 mode is just a completely new level above the single player because of the simple but vast options 
 placed upon it, and it sheer ease to just pick it up and start playing. This is serious a game 
 that shall be talked about through the hollowed halls of the gaming elite for years and years to 
 come and I pray that if a sequel is made (and i know that it shall be) it will far surpass the 
 previous copy, but thew only problem with that it, can we bear with another confection of prefection! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Blue_Rover
Rating: 9.3
Date: Dec 23, 2003 6:57 am PT
Review:  I have been a bit behind the times with PC gaming recently and only very recently acquired a machine 
 worthy to enjoy some of the more up to date games. I had heard that Call of Duty was fairly special 
 but gave up on any hope of playing it on my old PC (PII 350mhz) . Needless to say when I got hold 
 of my new machine I went straight out and bought Call of Duty. Now I know what I have been missing...
 
  
  Call of Duty is an exceptional gaming experience that makes you feel like you are in the middle 
 of a scene from Private Ryan or Band of Brothers. The graphics are very smooth and provide a wonderfully 
 atmospheric environment. You can crawl through loopholes in walls, enter buildings and basically 
 go through any door that is open. Explosions and muzzle flash look very realistic as do the effects 
 when bullets hit walls and the ground. Tracer of machine guns whistle by to such an extent that 
 when their is a large firefight, men get dead very quickly. Realistic then...
  
  Add to this the fantastic sound and atmospheric music and you have a great game made better by 
 quality sound effects. For example the sound genuinely gives you an idea how close gunfire is when 
 you hear it. Men scream and shriek when hit, bullets ping off walls and armoured vehicles, orders 
 are shouted and magazine clips empty to a click and a ping.
  
  What makes this FPS different from others I have played, is its not just you against everyone. 
 You get squad mates who follow you, lead the way and generally help out in the ensuing action. 
 You haven't got to issue orders and they only continue with the objectives of the mission when 
 you are with them. It all adds to a more realistic experience as your squad try to flush out Germans 
 from a prepared position or storm a building to take out a machine gun position.
  
  I have played the multiplayer a few times and this certainly adds to the single player campaigns 
 as such a feature of any game would. And it is this that will keep you coming back to hone your 
 skills again and again.
  
  The game is well presented and easy to navigate with a handy tutorial to get you up to speed with 
 controls. All in all, a great game that does not necessarily add anything new to the FPS war-genre 
 of games, but what it does it does exceptionally well. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nunyerbiz
Rating: 8.1
Date: Dec 22, 2003 6:07 am PT
Review:  Good WW2 shooter, but nothing groundbreaking to be found here. Call of Duty is a very well made 
 WW2 shooter, similar in many ways to the excellent Medal of Honor series. 
  
  The single player game works it's way through three distinct points of view: American, British 
 & Russian. The American missions start the game and are very well done. British missions are the 
 middle third, and are actually quite weak. By far the low point of the game. The end series, featuring 
 the Russians, makes up for this somewhat and ends the single player game on a high note. 
  
  While the single player game is very well done, it's nothing extraordinary. As usual with these 
 type of games, many missions feature you working with fellow soldiers to clear the level. While 
 the developers defiantely did a good job of making your squad look like they're helping, they rarely 
 are. While your squadmates do get the occasional kill, more often then not they shoot at the baddies 
 at point blank range and miss. Also, any "mission critical" squadmates are basically invincible. 
 They simply will not die. These aren't big deals, but it does chip away at the realism. It makes 
 you realize that Call of Duty hasn't made any improvements as far as squad based AI, tactics or 
 scripting. Your squad doesn't do any better than the Medal of Honor squadmates did two years ago. 
 For every moment that you feel like your one soldier in a large scale battle, there are four or 
 five moments when you realize that it's you against everyone else and the AI controlled squad mates 
 are just window dressing. This really isn't a big knock on the game, as compared to similar games, 
 Call of Duty does a good job. The problem is that it doesn't do a GREAT job. It's simply a well 
 designed, compentent single player shooter. Definately deserving of praise, but not worthy of all 
 the 9/10 and 10/10 scores it's getting from every direction. 
  
  Multiplayer is a straightforward affair, the standard gametypes are all represented. The "kill-cam" 
 is defiantely a great feature that should have been implemented by somebody along time ago. Unfortunately, 
 it doesn't seem all that popular in the real world, as not many of the public servers have it enabled. 
 The maps included in the game are all well designed and fun to play, but more of them would have 
 been welcomed. Considering the relative brief single player campaign, more multiplayer maps would 
 have been nice. Networking code seems very solid, and the game plays suprisingly well even with 
 inconsistent ping times.
  
  Overall, a well done shooter and that's it. The short single player campaign combined with no real 
 improvements on the genre keep this from truly being the 10/10 that everyone says it is. Still, 
 it's a game that shouldn't dissapoint while it lasts. 
  
  8/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BrGabriel
Rating: 9.1
Date: Dec 19, 2003 7:49 am PT
Review:  Since I have found myself regularly turning out game reviews that moan about poor gameplay, linearity, 
 dumbing down for console kiddies, average graphics, no atmosphere and my biggest bugbear, bloody 
 awful quality control, I felt that I had to say that this game suffers from _none_ of these. I 
 really liked Medal of Honour, but this game is just _so_ much better - it looks better, runs better, 
 has huge atmosphere and is, as far as I can see, bug free. The only issue I have is that its a 
 bit short. But then again if they'd made it 5 times longer I enjoyed the experience so much and 
 found it immersive enough that that would probably have felt too short as well. Absolutely excellent 
 game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Felipe
Rating: 6.8
Date: Dec 17, 2003 3:50 pm PT
Review:  Call of Duty is a game of extremes. At times it shows flashes of absolute brilliance, yet at others 
 it becomes tedious, repetitive, and all too predictable. Unfortunately these negative aspects become 
 the norm during game play and spoil what was in many ways an amazing effort by Infinity Ward.
 
  
  Visually, Call of Duty is a mixed bag. The game utilizes an old engine, and it cannot avoid looking 
 somewhat dated, especially when compared to modern action games like Americas Army. I was impressed 
 by the detail that was put into the faces of the soldiers. When I would look into their eyes during 
 lulls in the combat action they actually seemed to project real human emotions like excitementand 
 fear. The game features some animations that I have never seen before in an action game, like soldiers 
 who actually seek out cover and attempt to use it effectively. However, some of these movements 
 seem stiff and unnatural. I liked the way the various weapons were animated, but I didnt like 
 how when running they did not move around at all, something that Medal of Honor: Allied Assault 
 featured very well. 
  
  The outdoor environments were impressive, but I was often quite under whelmed by the lack of little 
 details during the games indoor portions. The British missions in the dam and on the battleship 
 Tirpitz come to mind here. They were dull and uninteresting, and lacked many of the simple details 
 that Medal of Honor had and used to make its indoor environments look more authentic. The uniforms 
 of the soldiers do not look very detailed, and for historical purists like myself, I could not 
 help but notice that the German eagle insignia is on the wrong side of their combat dress. The 
 German Army in Stalingrad also did not have any proper winter clothing, a reality which is not 
 reflected in this game. Overall, I could not help but think that Medal of Honor: Allied Assault 
 was so much more fulfilling visually. 
  
  On the flip side, I found the audio effects to be quite impressive. I especially noticed during 
 the Pegasus Bridge mission that it sounded like I was really involved in a deadly firefight. I 
 really liked the Saving Private Ryan style hearing damage effect when explosions go off too close 
 to you. The voice acting was quite good, although I thought there was a bit too much stereotyping 
 when it came to the British forces. They say Bloody in practically every sentence and I thought 
 that was a bit over the top, but that is a minor complaint. The Germans also didnt speak as much 
 as they did in Medal of Honor, but that too is minor. As a whole I was very impressed with the 
 audio component of Call of Duty.
  
  The A. I. is good overall. I liked the fact that you actually have to stand behind cover in this 
 game, and that you can actually miss targets that are far away unless you take the time to properly 
 aim with the weapons iron sights. However, the fact that your A. I. teammates are completely dependant 
 on you to do nearly everything for you is quite annoying. During the Pegasus Bridge mission, while 
 I was franticly holding off German infantry with a captured machine gun, I was constantly being 
 harassed by my fellow soldiers to destroy the approaching enemy tanks as well. I was unable to 
 understand why the private who was standing right beside the anti tank weapons was apparently incapable 
 of knocking out the tanks on his own. This baby-sitting aspect of the game was unfortunately very 
 frustrating, and things like this happen in nearly every single mission. While the game boasts 
 about how the war was not won by a single man, it does a remarkably poor job of representing this 
 reality. All that your allies do is basically stand around and take a few pot shots at the enemy, 
 leaving you to do all of the hard work. While this may done to make the game more difficult, it 
 certainly doesnt make it any less tedious. 
  
  The first few levels of Call of Duty are involving and interesting, but after about the first British 
 mission, the style of game play quickly becomes stale. All of the missions begin to feel the same, 
 and the Germans start to feel like pop up targets. I really had to force myself through the games 
 later levels, and this was very disappointing considering the excellent start that it has. Unfortunately 
 the game had a feeling of been there, done that for me, because it simply felt like a less polished 
 version of Medal of Honor.
  
  Chances are you will like the demo if you try it, as it is one of the better levels of the game, 
 but be warned that this demo is not totally representative of the final product that you will be 
 buying in time for the holiday season.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Andy2o3
Rating: 9.6
Date: Dec 15, 2003 1:50 pm PT
Review:  This game can only be described in two words. Kick Ass! As soon as I heard about Call of Duty all 
 I was thinking was, Oh great another Medal of Honor or battlefield 1942 game, Wow what a slap in 
 the face! As soon as you start playing you feel like your actually there. I felt this away about 
 Medal of Honor a few years ago. But Call of Duty brings the highest points int the war right your 
 keyboard/mouse! The thing that shocked me most when I heard the machine guns fire was the sound. 
 The sound is amazing. Every litle detail of sound is in this game. You can't go it alone like you 
 can in other games, This is very team coordinated. Its the most realistic WWII game to date. I 
 would reccomend this game for any type of gamer. This will most def make a great christmas present 
 for any kids atleast age 10+. This game is great. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CheesySnax
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 14, 2003 1:34 am PT
Review:  Wow. That's all I can say about Call of Duty. WOW. This game took me by surprise.
  
  When I heard about this game, I didn't care. I was so tired of the WW2 themed games that I was 
 sure this was going to be another stinker like Medal of Honor: Allied Assault or Medal of Honor: 
 Frontline.
  
  I was wrong. I was DEAD wrong.
  
  Call of Duty is the best game I've ever played. It's that incredible. The graphics, the sound, 
 the tension, the weapons, everything makes this a stellar game.
  
  I had so much fun playing this game that I couldn't stop until I beat it. I did nothing for 4 days 
 but play Call of Duty.
  
  The graphics are great. They're incredible, but they can be run on a VERY slow system. I had no 
 problems at all with my 1100 MHZ processor. It ran smooth, never slowing down once. The graphics 
 feel crisp and vibrant. Running through one of the first towns you encounter was an graphically 
 stunning experience. There was flak lighting up the air, machine gun fire littering the grounds, 
 mortar fire left and right, planes dropping paratroopers, the works. This, my friends, is a damn 
 gorgeous war.
  
  The sound is incredible, too. The music is great and the voice acting is top notch. The guns sound 
 very good, and artillery weapons sound incredible. I recommend a 5.1 system or better for the full 
 war experience. This game has some of the best sound in any game this year.
  
  The gameplay can't be beat. The multiplayer mode is very basic, but you don't buy Call of Duty 
 for online play... you buy Call of Duty for its simply amazing single player campaign.
  
  I'll be playing this game for a long time to come, even though I've already beaten the single player 
 campaign. If I do have ONE gripe, it's the fact that the game can be incredibly difficult at some 
 times. Even on the easiest difficulty level, some players may not be able to beat some of the levels.
 
  
  I can safely recommend this game to all gamers. Go buy it now! It's just plain incredible. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: phatbrain101
Rating: 8.6
Date: Dec 13, 2003 5:47 am PT
Review:  This game is more impressive then MOHAA; at this time, Call of Duty is the most impressive WW2 
 shooter. I love the big battle scenerios, especially the Russian campaign, but the British campaigns 
 were a bit disappointing. In the British missions you play a commando type character, so they consist 
 alot of solo missions which I don't find as epic. 
  
  This game uses the Quake 3 engine, but the quality is still very nice. The movements of the characters 
 are nice. The sound in this game is just spectacular; Effects of bombs, gunfire, and grenades are 
 all top notch. The combination of EAX3 and surround sound makes this the most realistic stuff I've 
 heard in a PC game. I have not spend too much time online yet; but the kill-cam is great!
  
  Lasty, there were a few things that took away from the overall feel of the game. First, your 
 teamates dont' die if they are needed up to a certain part of the mission; You can shoot them or 
 the enemy will shoot them, but they will pop right back up as if nothing happened. Finally, I was 
 a bit disappointed the developers did not implement some kind of ragdoll physics; characters just 
 drop dead. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: plmoore78
Rating: 8.2
Date: Dec 9, 2003 1:09 pm PT
Review:  I found this game to be a very worthwhile addition to the first person shooter genre. It's graphics 
 and sound are superb. The gameplay and AI (allied and enemy) are believable enough and add to the 
 gameplay. The missions were varied, and I like the different take on WWII besides just normal Allied 
 missions. The Russian campaign was especially interesting. The only drawback is that there is not 
 much coherency between missions. I had a blast with this game, but I felt that some of the missions 
 were too short. Some missions were extremely simple and were over in mere minutes while others 
 were more normally sized. That is my only major complaint with this game. For a MSRP of $49.99 
 I feel that this game is too short, but it does have unique redeeming qualities. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: grooveeo
Rating: 7.3
Date: Dec 5, 2003 6:54 am PT
Review:  at first i was impressed. movie-like gameplay and alot of action. just like the omaha-beach level 
 from mohaa. but after a while every mission looked the same and there wasn't really anything special 
 to it anymore. no cutscenes no story. the ai is average, sometimes even poor: enemies run like 
 lemmings into your fire and you have a hard job reloding in time to keep up with the coming enemies.
 
  the animations of the soldiers are not very realistic: it looks like gollum is carrying a weapon 
 and a uniform.
  my rating: 9 for the first hour, after that it gets boring. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tanker
Rating: 9.4
Date: Dec 3, 2003 12:39 pm PT
Review:  Call of Duty is simply the best WW2 shooter yet, period. The game is very immersive with the one 
 slight exception being your squad mates who can often take a serious pounding and just shake it 
 off (literally) . The sound is excellent, the graphics are excellent, and the missions are excellent. 
 One thing I did not like was the abrupt shift from American to British to Soviet missions. I would 
 have rather had three completely separate campaigns. But the variety is also a good thing. Some 
 of the missions are simply amazing. Control is excellent with the ability (finally!) to go prone 
 and crawl! If you like WW2 games or shooters in general it doesn't get much better than this. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: brundlefly76
Rating: 9.4
Date: Nov 30, 2003 3:07 pm PT
Review:  WOW.
  This is the first single-player game I fully intend to finish since Castle Wolfenstein - but it 
 is far better then RtCW. The quality of worksmanship in this game is simply superb, and I dont 
 just mean on graphics or level design or anything else - I mean simply everything (well except 
 maybe multiplayer, which in my limited playing time was very generic) .
  
  This game is ridiculously easy to get into, and once you are in it is like a fun tornado that seamlessly 
 blows you through missions that are simply action-packed and are paced perfectly.
  
  The consistant quality of the level design is astounding. The game flows absolutely perfectly at 
 1280x1024x32 (P4 2400HT / Radeon 9700) , and the graphics are excellent.
  
  The control config is fast and can instantly be accessed during the game and resume with no delays 
 - I love games that can do that. The training course moves as fast as you can - maybe 5 min tops 
 and you are on your way. Level load times are fast as well.
  
  The controls are very straightforward and work very well. The way your captain gives you orders 
 on the field is very realistic and completely understandable. Access to objectives and waypoints 
 is very simple. In short, the game does not get in the way of enjoying your time in the battlefield 
 in any way. The game save system is perfect and you will never get frustrated being sent back to 
 some absurd objective over and over and over because you didnt save manually (but you can save 
 manually if you want!) .
  
  As a result, you move through levels very very fast, which keeps the game constantly interesting. 
 
  
  Medal of Honor does not hold a candle to this game, IMHO.
  
  The graphics are just awesome. Not just in the quality but in the art design - the levels are scenic 
 through and through, and once in a while there is a jaw-dropper, like the nazi dam at twilight 
 - its beautiful.
  
  I bought this game and Socom II the same day - Socom II is laughable compared to this game.
  
 
  Buy it. I would call it the game of the year.
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: devnull
Rating: 9.3
Date: Nov 30, 2003 11:23 am PT
Review:  This is a game with only two drawbacks, but they do not diminish the impression. I've thoroughly 
 enjoyed the MoH series and thought it to be one of the best games I've played, not any more... 
 Call Of Duty just took the concept and exceeded the limits. The fact that you're not a one man 
 army killing of the Wermacht gives the game a new dimension, sure in some scenarios you are but 
 mostly there's a sense of participation. Still the game would be boring if you're mates did all 
 the work so I think there's a good balance.
  The sound, graphics and action is good and as many other witness you need some R&R between missions. 
 The gameplay is intense and hard but not ruined by the impossible. The storyline is quite linear 
 and does not leave many options, but that does not matter when you're fighting to stay alive and 
 there's often more than one way to do the same thing.
  Now, I mentioned two drawbacks which are they?
  1. There's no possibility to play a multiuser 
 game in a team against the computer. Me and my friends would like to team up in the single players 
 scenarios. Now that would be a real enhancement. I find playing over the internet boring and to 
 have a shoot out between two or three in an otherwise desolated map is also incredibly uneventful.
 
  2. IT'S TOO SHORT! Give me more! I'm eagerly awaiting add ons and sequels!
  P. S. When storming the Reichtag take the chance of entering the podium in the parliament, I could 
 not resist it, the feeling of history... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thekdg
Rating: 8.8
Date: Nov 29, 2003 8:16 pm PT
Review:  UNBELIEVABLE!!!! Thats it in a word. The graphics are so smooth and sharp. The sounds are right 
 on time. From the gun shots to the sounds of the trucks grinding through the gears. I love the 
 way your team screams at you when the gun fire is so LOUD. You'll play four different campaigns 
 with American, English and my favorite Russian forces. Now don't get me wrong I'm true Red, White 
 and Blue. But if you've seen the movie "Enemy at the Gate" then you'll get chills at the begining 
 of the Russian campaign.
  "Duty" flows well and any real gamer won't have too many problems. It's pretty linear and the AI 
 keeps you on the correct path. Without getting in the way or standing there while you get killed. 
 The weapons are true to most first person games. The pistols shoot different than the rifles and 
 so on. You even get to drive a tank or two. The missions are pretty much invade and conquer. 
 
  I bought the game guide and its cool to read all the historical stuff, but as far as the game 
 goes you really don't need it. I've played a little of the multi-player. There seems to be very 
 few servers right now. But the games seem fun enough. HEY its free! 
  Now go get it and PLAY ON!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: no1alboogie
Rating: 9.7
Date: Nov 26, 2003 9:42 pm PT
Review:  Call of Duty, as far as I'm concerned, is THE BEST game I've had the privilage 
  
  of playing this year. I would recomend buying it to anyone. I'm a first- (third)
  
  person shooter 
 lover to begin with anyway, but if you know of any gamer that 
  
  likes to shoot alot of everything and blow all kinds of great stuff up, and 
  
  doesn't have 
 it, I'm sure they'd love you if they found Call of Duty under 
  
  their tree this year. (of course you might want to keep it for yourself, that's 
  
  cool) The 
 grafics are killer, the sound awesome, the AI is great, I felt like 
  
  I was part of great group of guys (usually) , alot of it still is you got to 
  
  stay alive, 
 you're teamates can't bail you out all the time. But anyway to make 
  
  a longer reveiw shorter, Call of Duty is a must have for anyone who likes to 
  
  play games. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CaptUnderpants
Rating: 8.9
Date: Nov 25, 2003 9:20 am PT
Review:  Call of Duty is a very good game. The single player game is not very long but it is well done and 
 produces many memorable moments. The grahpics are an improvement on anything out there already 
 and the sound is outstanding. The AI is good and although not perfect is a marked improvement on 
 other WWII games. I suggest playing the single player game on veteran, although you will not get 
 any health drops it brings home the difficulty of only having one life and will prepare you better 
 for multiplayer. 
  
  Multiplayer is where this game for me really takes off, Its too difficult to do on your own, so 
 team work is essential and the way the maps are designed it seems to automatically produce team 
 working. The brilliant friendly fire mode that hurts yourself should you try to kill one of your 
 mates wipes out a big frustration with MP games. Also the killer cam showing who killed you is 
 a great addition, this clears up many a argument when you think you have been killed by a someguy 
 who hardly shot in your direction only to discover you where shot by someone else (great stuff!)
 
  
  All the MP maps are well designed and as there are 11 of them and they play all types of game there's 
 plenty to get stuck into. My favorite being retrievel where you have to fight your way into the 
 enemies territory to acquire documents and then return them to your base. Also you get to to start 
 with one gun, but are able to carry two main weapons, and if you stay alive to the end of the round 
 you carry over your weapons to the next round. A good incentive to stay alive. All objective maps 
 have two targets so they are not easily defended and evens out the game. Weapons are good and the 
 aim down the sight option adds alot of realism to the game. Everyone has the same skin which is 
 cool , so none of that fighting with the cook, and the cleaner nonsense ;o)
  
  This game is best summed up as a cross between Medal of Honour and Return to Castle Wolfenstein, 
 it makes you work in a team but without the irritation of having to choose a career (ie: medic, 
 engineer)
  
  I got the game a while ago now and didn't rush with this review as its only fair on those who haven't 
 bought it yet, this game is good and it is worth the money. I hope you enjoy it as much as I do.
 
  
  The Pants
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Visi0naries
Rating: 8.8
Date: Nov 24, 2003 7:01 pm PT
Review:  Since there are a ton of war games out on the market, not alot try to capture the magic the Medal 
 of Honor series has done. Medal of Honor has done alot more than any of the imitations have done. 
 Now, we are introduced to Call of Duty. Is it another Medal of Honor knock-off, or does it have 
 some potential to say the least?
  
  Call of Duty takes place during World War II, where you are taken through more than 20 single-player 
 missions ranging from the D-Day invasion to POW rescues and so forth. If you want to call it another 
 Medal of Honor, you can. But the fact remains straight, Call of Duty plays alot like Medal of Honor, 
 both with great gameplay to boot.
  
  In the game, you can only carry a few weapons and a few grenades. You'll also need to use your 
 compass, as it provides vital information on where to go. Following your compass gives you directions 
 to where you have to go to complete your next objective, as well as shooting enemies that are in 
 the way.
  
  The definite one thing that stands out in Call of Duty is it's impressive and outstanding A. I. 
 Enemies actually take cover behind objects to protect them from fire, and some also flee when you 
 throw a grenade towards their direction. The A. I. also reacts to everything you do, which gives 
 quite a challenge. Also impressive from the A. I., they blindly fire around corners, take control 
 of turrets that are unmanned, toss grenades into wide open areas, and impressively toss grenades 
 back at you that you throw at them before it explodes.
  
  Call of Duty also boasts 25 real-life weapons that have been used during the time period of World 
 War II. Sniper rifles, auto machine guns, sub-machine guns, pistols, etc. have all been included 
 in the game, and with that said, the reload animation for all of them takes a good while, so it's 
 best not to reload while battling... a basic strategy in first-person shooters.
  
  If you ever wanted to find out how the guns in Call of Duty sound from their real counterparts, 
 here is the place to find it. Call of Duty simply has some of the best sound ever heard this year. 
 Firing weapons in all sorts of directions while hearing the sounds is a real treat.
  
  If Call of Duty's impressive single-player doesn't satisfy you, or you already beat the mode, Call 
 of Duty also has an extensive multi-player mode. There are about 5 different multi-player modes 
 that range from old school modes like the Classic Deathmatch, to a mode called "Behind Enemy Lines", 
 where allied soldiers are greatly outnumbered, and to top that off, the game offers plenty of maps 
 which are huge and vast in detail. You might be spending most of your time in awe with the modes 
 and maps.
  
  Sure, Call of Duty is definitely a great game, but it has faults that keep it back. Some issues 
 include animations that are logically out of order. You also might see clipping issues of enemies, 
 as they might be trying to "surprise" you from corners and sorts, yet they act awkward and sloppy 
 in their own right. This is where the game falls out on, as it is it's biggest flaw. Also, the 
 game is a long one, but it's somewhat too simple and easy. Unlike Medal of Honor, Call of Duty 
 has a much more simplistic gameplay to it. The multi-player is also a good addition, but with 32 
 players it gets crowded even in the biggest of maps. Although you can adjust this setting, so it 
 fits your needs.
  
  Overall, Call of Duty is an impressive game that fires on most cylinders. It acts alot like Medal 
 of Honor, and it's actually better in some aspects. The incredible and smart A. I. and the excellent 
 sound are the game's biggest points, and not only that, but Call of Duty has a great and nice multi-player 
 mode to boot. Graphically, the game looks fanatasic. The models are nicely detailed, and gives 
 Call of Duty the upper-hand. Call of Duty does have it's flaws in contrast, like the clipping and 
 animation issues found in the game, and the somewhat easy difficulty, but most of that can be forgiven 
 for. Call of Duty is a definite must-own game for fans of Medal of Honor looking for a good war 
 game before Pacific Assault is released. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HonkyBone
Rating: 7.7
Date: Nov 21, 2003 8:49 am PT
Review:  This game (and it's reviews) promises experiences that we have never seen before. Unfortunately, 
 there is little here that could fulfill that promise. I held very high hopes for this game, especially 
 after reading all the hype surrounding it. I came away from it feeling very disappointed.
  Let's start with the gameplay. Yes, you are supported with a team of soldiers. However, much like 
 other games when you have a group with you, they are very unhelpful. They provide little cover 
 and allow enemies to slip through the line so that they may shoot you in the face. They also will 
 throw grenades at dead bodies and sometimes directly at your position. Many times I was forced 
 into incoming fire or took a direct hit because of a teammates grenade. They will also crowd together 
 in stairwells and corners sometimes pushing your character into a direct line of fire.
  Also, many people are praising this game because you fight with other nationalities. People, this 
 was done with MOA: Spearhead as well as BF:1942. Besides, the British commando missions are lackluster 
 and the Russian missions, while good, are taken directly from the movie "Enemy at the Gates".
 
  Furthermore, the only missions that provide something new are the "defense from counterattack" 
 mission, of which there are 2 or 3. The rest of the missions are your general, run-of-the-mill, 
 go blow up this or shoot that routines. (Note to game designers: Why do I always have to be the 
 guy that snipes every German running the MG42s, or the guy that blows up every tank with rockets? 
 I supposedly have a team with me, right? Why can't they pull some of the load?)
  This game is incredibly short, around 9-10 hours on the higher difficulty setting. There are add-ons 
 for other games that cost half the price with twice the longevity. In some games, the length can 
 be compensated for with replay value or complete immersion in the game. However, Call of Duty tends 
 to drag through the middle, despite its short length.
  The game is also heavily scripted, meaning it is very linear. I'm not one of those guys that hates 
 linear games, the events that are scripted here are usually enjoyable ones. However, my point is 
 that this is nothing new. People complained and complained about the scripting in MOA and it's 
 expansion packs, well, you're looking at the same deal here.
  The multiplayer is good, I especially like the "kill cam" which allows you to see what your killer 
 was doing seconds before he ended you. But, besides this the multiplayer is very similar to MOH: AA 
 and UT.
  Call of Duty is an enjoyable experience and a good game, but there is not much here that is ground-breaking 
 so don't be fooled into believing that this game will change you as a gamer. It's all been done 
 before. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: crodeman
Rating: 9.2
Date: Nov 18, 2003 8:59 am PT
Review:  We have seen our share of WW2 games, but this Game offers a newer, more excting glimpse into this 
 world war. One the most simple, yet unique features of the game is that you can look down the barrel 
 of every weapon with sights, I have yet to see a game that offers this. Another simple yet realistic 
 point this game offers, is simple inventory management, you are only allowed to carry two guns 
 at a time. There are numerous other realistic gameplay features that add to this game, for example, 
 when grenade blow ups, bodies fly into the air somewhat realisticly (the only game I have seen 
 emulate this relism is Battlefeild 1942) . The intense action never lets the game slow down, and 
 replicates a wartime situation. On top of all this, after finishing the amazing single player missions, 
 you'll have the chance to blast away at your friends in the multiplayer mode. Mulitplayer is especially 
 unique because it offers a variety of new gameplay modes. It still includes the classic Team Deathmatch, 
 Deathmatch, etc. but there are new games such as Behind Enemy Lines. Behind Enemy Lines is a new 
 gameplay mode that is much like Team DM, but once you kill an enemy you respawn as him in the next 
 round. The multiplayer mode is perhaps one of the best WW2 multiplayer games, next to Battlefeild 
 1942. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: WulleBulle
Rating: 6.9
Date: Nov 16, 2003 3:50 am PT
Review:  First I was very excited of CoD. Then I became more and more annoyed of all the errors and at last 
 the very very S H O R T length of fun in this game.
  First the goodies:
  - I loved the sound in this game; the sounds are very great and real 3D - hear bullets buzz around 
 your ears and shooting from all directions - you will need a good surround speaker system to get 
 all this features live
  - you have never seen such great AI, especially your opponents; it seems like they are thinking; 
 your teammates are a little dumb sometimes but all in all they are good team members; although 
 they die a little fast
  Now to the bad things:
  - I wonder if everyone is so enthusiastic about this game; I never played a game that was sooo 
 short like CoD; in about 4 to 5 hours you are through the game; the scripted huge battles are funny 
 to see but not much more than decoration; ok, it feels very realistic and sometimes I mean to be 
 in the middle of a battle but at last you are alone and I don't like to search my contact person 
 on the middle of 100 scripted someones.
  I was ANGRY about that because the game costs lots of money... too much for the few little missions.
 
  - the graphics engine of Q3 is not at the top of time; although the programmers pulled out of 
 it what was possible but if you play the game you fill get stuck on lots of spots in certain areas 
 as crates or rise on the grounds; this stops every fun if u get killed by hanging on a door frame 
 or something else
  - bodies and objects are not bound on real physics - in the time of game technologies where physics 
 are as normal as they can be in a game CoD delivers average work to the gamer; the whole game performance 
 become more a Quake3 deathmatch because of this... just look at the nme bodies if they die... this 
 is NOT state of the art
  
  Conclusion:
  CoD is a nice WWII shooter - at last a 3D FPS to walk through without thinking. If you want more 
 realistic fun, play Hidden & Dangerous 2 (if there will ever be a patch against the bad bugs) .
 
  Funny but too short and therefore too expensive. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mattmo714
Rating: 8.4
Date: Nov 14, 2003 1:23 pm PT
Review:  This is a short FPS, considering the $49 price tag. If you initially play the game like I do, starting 
 in the medium difficulty setting, you can expect about a day, to a day an a half of play time. 
 You can play the game again in the hardest difficulty setting, which allow no health packs and 
 a much more aggressive, accurate AL, but it seems to have no real great re-play value. Overall, 
 it was a fun game, with some great authentic weapons and tactics, but not worth the initial price. 
 What I did like about it was being able to play for the Americans, Russians and British, with the 
 Russiamns being the most difficult set of missions, 
::::::

::::::
UserName: perquak
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 9, 2003 6:56 am PT
Review:  The game is great. The AI (both friend and foe NPC's) is superb. The graphics are great. What other 
 reviews have said about Call of Duty are all true. What they didn't say, however, is that it crashes 
 constantly on many systems (see mine below) . It crashes with the latest & greatest Nvidia cards 
 as well as the latest & greatest ATI cards. It has a major problem with EAX sound on Audigy cards 
 (slows the game down to less than 10 fps) . I thought I was alone until I started reading the CoD 
 forums. After several hours of hard work - research and tweaking, I am finally able to play and 
 enjoy it, but I shouldn't have had to work so hard, nor should you if you decide to buy it. If 
 you do, I wish you well.
  
  
  Falcon NW Computer - Circa 12/01
  Athlon XP 1900+ with 512MB
  Audigy 1 Soundcard
  ATI Radeon 
 9800 Pro w/256MB
  Windows XP Home
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tyrael
Rating: 7.6
Date: Nov 8, 2003 5:19 pm PT
Review:  After playing the demo I was really excited to play a game that was this good. Too bad it only 
 has about 9 levels, most of wich are really short. Like the Russian level where they hand you ammo, 
 you run around avoiding machine gun fire, then the level's over, without ever touching a gun. It's 
 also way to short. It is a really good WWII shooter, but with the genre as overdeveloped as it 
 is, it doesn't have enough new content to really distinguish itself, basicly it's MOHAA with a 
 better psysics engine, better graphics, a limit on the number of weapons you can carry, and you 
 get a team... usually. With a motto like "In war nobody fights alone" you'd tink they mean you 
 fighht in an army, well you do, except for about half the missions where you get sent ahead to clear 
 out the entire battlecruiser by yourself, then return and drive away. It also focuses on car chases 
 too much, even thought they play out almost exactly as MOHAA's do. In conculsion: a good game, 
 if it came out a few years ago it would have dominated the genre, but today it isn't anything too 
 special. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ernelson1976
Rating: 9.3
Date: Nov 8, 2003 3:20 am PT
Review:  One word - Wow.
  
  Great game - probably the most intense game I have ever played. And you know what does it? The 
 SOUND. My God, play this with some headphones, and you really feel what fighting in WWII was really 
 like. Noise everywhere, men yelling, screaming, bullets flying. And the missions seem realistic, 
 too, as do the locations. The level that starts with the boat moving in to Stalingrad is probably 
 the most intense level I have ever played. Absolutely fantastic.
  
  Graphics are great, too, I thought - captured the smoke and fire in the cities very well.
  
 
  The game is a bit short, but I did appreciate seeing the war from different perspectives - we 
 need more games that explore the Soviet side, particularly Stalingrad. They suffered huge losses 
 and such battles would be amazing to see in a game.
  
  Let me tell you, when you're storming a building and that music swells in the background, you feel 
 like you're in the middle not of a video game, but a movie like Saving Private Ryan. Kudos to the 
 designers of this one. They really got it right. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Llama_Arse
Rating: 9.3
Date: Nov 7, 2003 6:40 am PT
Review:  I have always been a fan of WWII games, and Call of Duty has taken the crown as the best single-player 
 WWII experience available. The game begins with you playing as Pvt. Martin of the U. S. Army, and 
 his portion of the campaign deals with destroying German artillery emplacements and rescuing POWs 
 (one highlight is a gangster-style car chase where you hang out the window and blast pursuers.)
 
  The second part of the campaign puts you in the boots of Sgt. Evans, a British commando. This 
 part of the game is the weakest, as there is too much Rambo-style solo action as opposed to squad-based 
 combat, though there is one standout mission where you have to defend a bridge from a German tank 
 assault, as well as an exciting chase that has you blasting German pursuers with Panzerfausts from 
 the back of a truck.)
  The third part of the game casts you as Conscript Alexei of the Red Army, and this final portion 
 of the game is without a doubt the best (and longest) of the three. No doubt you've seen portions 
 of the Stalingrad and Red Square missions in videos or screens, but nothing can prepare you for 
 just how amazing these missions are. There's also a section near the end that has you driving a 
 tank on the push toward Berlin.
  The game's audio and visual presentation are nearly flawless. Never before has a more convincing 
 representation of warfare been presented on a computer screen. The textures are highly detailed, 
 the weapon and character models are excellent (though the facial animation is sub-par,) and the 
 explosion and fire effects are some of the best to date.
  The multiplayer portion of the game is not particularly original, but it is enjoyable, nonetheless. 
 The maps are all based on missions from the single player campaign, and can be played in deathmatch, 
 team deathmatch, Search and Destroy (where you either plant bombs on targets or defend the targets 
 from the saboteurs,) as well as a number of other modes. The "Kill-Cam" feature, which allows you 
 to witness your death from the view of your killer, is extremely handy for rooting out cheaters.
 
  Call of Duty does have a rather brief single-player campaign, but that shouldn't stop you from 
 playing what is one of the finest games of the year. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tim Hughes
Rating: 8.3
Date: Nov 4, 2003 4:40 pm PT
Review:  I must first admit that I have been a die-hard MOHAA fan since it's initial appearance on the PC. 
 I was looking forward to this game with a great deal of expectation of it being the ultimate WWII 
 FPS game. When I initially started playing, I was truly in awe of the single-person game. The graphics, 
 the sound, and the gameplay were absolutely outstanding and I was expecting the multi-player to 
 be just as great. For the most part it is, but I could just not get the same excitement out of 
 CoD as I do out of MOHAA. It truly is an outstanding game and well worth the price of admission. 
 I just can't say it's going to have any staying power for multi-player for me. It lacks the realism 
 that I seem to get from MOHAA (I also did not enjoy BF1942 because of it's arcade level of realism) . 
 I will play this game for probably a few weeks and then I'll dust of my MOHAA and get back to it. 
 Now all I have to do is wait until January and hope that MOHAA: Pacific Assault rises to the challenge. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Blue_Tomato
Rating: 9.6
Date: Nov 4, 2003 2:43 pm PT
Review:  There are many war sims out there now, but none of them has even came close to capturing the real 
 atmosphere of war compared to Call of Duty.
  
  Especially memorable was the start of the Russian campaign where you run towards the Nazis machine 
 guns with no more than a few bullets in your pocket and the faint hope of collecting a weapon from 
 a fallen comrade.
  
  If you do not follow this crazy plan of overwhelming the enemy using your body alone, your own 
 commandants are happy to put a bullet in your head to persuade your friends to be smarter.
  
  Disturbingly, this is probably very close to how it happened, and never before has history 
 become more alive and vivid. You really feel like a soldier in the middle of a horrible war with 
 screaming people running about, artillery grenades raining down and fierce fighting all around 
 you....
  
  The only downside is that it is a quick game to finish. I completed it in just a few hours. It 
 was some hours filled with action and intense gameplay though.
  
  Apart from the fact it is simply too short, I can easily recommend this. It is the first WW2 game 
 that is truly alive. It will be breathing down your neck, giving you many chilling moments and 
 probably a couple of heart attacks.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: allenw007
Rating: 8.4
Date: Nov 4, 2003 11:33 am PT
Review:  This game is absolutely exciting but also absolutely short. Expect to finish it in about 4 to 5 
 hours with little or no replay value. It is a story and you are one of the characters along for 
 the ride. Don't get me wrong, I do like the game but $50 is alot to pay for such a short game. 
 Alot of gamers complained about how short Freedom Fighters was but it is at least twice as long 
 as this game, but sells for under $40. No doubt alot of time and effort was spent putting COD together 
 was it just doesn't seem substantial enough to justify the cost or the high scores. On another 
 note I just noticed this weekend that all 3 Operation Flashpoint titles are bundled for under $30. 
 That is the best bargain in gaming I have seen in 15 years. Go buy that instead for know and by 
 the time you master it COD will be $19.99. In closing, how many games do you really buy expecting 
 only 4 hours of entertainment. My advice is to download both demos and see how long it takes you 
 to beat both. My bet is that it will take less than 10 min each. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spiny
Rating: 9.1
Date: Nov 2, 2003 4:23 pm PT
Review:  Bottom line: amazing FPS/Action game. Possibly game of the year. The bad: The game's levels have 
 zero interactivity. There's no ability to pick up objects, damage things, etc, with the exception 
 of bullet marks and using switches on walls. The good: The scripting is amazing. You will see a 
 great deal of carefully thought-out scripting that will immerse you in this WWII shooter.
  
  Generally, the graphics are superb and yet the game does not suffer from slow framerates, etc 
 typical of most new games. I have a P4 3 Ghz and a Radeon 9800 and I can run this game easily at 
 1280x1024 with the framerate sync'ed with the refresh rate -- There's a lesson for you Jedi Academy, 
 Halo for PC, etc.
  
  So go and buy this game. If you have even a passing interest in FPS-style games and/or War games, 
 then this is what you've been waiting for! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DagHammer
Rating: 9.1
Date: Nov 1, 2003 7:28 pm PT
Review:  With a good update to the Quake 3 engine, and a very focused effort on gameplay, this game is a 
 must have for your collection. The sound is an intregal part of the experience. What I like in 
 the single player is the fact you really have to play. I mean, keep your wits about you. The fact 
 that you can die from any direction, any moment, from anything is what real combat was like (yes 
 I'm an old fart) . The AI on both side make you totally forget it's a computer. 
  For the multiplayer, it's just the right combination of damage. Not Rouge Spear/Rainbow one shot 
 kill, but you're not a superman either. Then there the "kill cam", veiwing your death through the 
 eyes of the reaper taking place 5 sec. before your death. Others may have thought of the concept, 
 but Infinity gets the credit for putting it to use. Love it!
  
  Maps in both Single and Multi are good. Single is somewhat linear, but make use of the a lot of 
 direction. Multi-maps, from what I've seen are large, and provide good flow of action.
  
  Last but not least, almost bug free on release. I did have the sound issue on multi mode using 
 EAX, as the ReadMe File warned. But no crashes or glitches.
  
  Thanks Infinity and Activision. A WWII action game that hits the mark right between the eyes! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SkullLeader00
Rating: 9.1
Date: Nov 1, 2003 1:58 pm PT
Review:  This game is amazing! No joke. Its worth getting right now. A lot like Allied Assault, but takes 
 a step forward. The multiplayer games is enough for everyone. They have 3 new multi types games, 
 giving a great feel like Counter Strike. The point is this:
  Gameplay: Same as Medal Of Honor, only more tuned and fiercer action!!
  Graphics: A tab better, 
 engine not as cool as Max Payne's but easy to use and fast pace.
  Sound: Man, play with surround sound and crank up the volume, its incredible.
  Value and Tilt: 
 I love this game. Any chance to play a WWII game I am there and this has to be one of the best 
 i have ever played.
  
  You won't be dissapointed! its not anything total new to us first person lovers, but it has to 
 be the best one out there right now. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: akira
Rating: 9.3
Date: Oct 29, 2003 8:53 pm PT
Review:  I just want to say, THIS GAMES ROCKS! I Had thought that the Demos were a good gauge for this game 
 and I was right. This game ran better that I could have any imagined. Other recent FPS really bogged 
 my aging system down, but not this one. I would have to agree with the others, this game is much 
 better than the great MOHAA. No longer is it you vs. the entire Nazi Army with a few tanks thrown 
 in. 
  I could swear in some parts you don't even have to shoot, just sit back and let your buddys do 
 the work. Of course it wouldn't be much of a game if you didn't do anything. I love the more tactical 
 feal of how you fight: your stance, how your aim is affected by movement, and the stun of a mortor 
 round as it explodes next to your feet. If your even on the fence about this game....... buy it! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wytefang
Rating: 8.3
Date: Oct 29, 2003 8:02 pm PT
Review:  Since the game hasn't started shipping out until today, I'm curious to know how any of these people 
 reviewing the game could have possibly acquired a full version, other than through piracy? So I'd 
 take most of the reviews in here today with quite a large grain of salt. You really can't trust 
 shady types like that. Anyway, that's all I had to say. From the DEMO that I've played, it is VERY 
 immersive and fun. After playing it I was VERY glad that I wouldn't have to wait too long to get 
 the full version. I guess that says a lot about the game itself. I don't think that the multiplayer 
 is better than BF1942's, not by a long shot, but it's entertaining. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GFofgaming
Rating: 9.8
Date: Oct 29, 2003 8:45 am PT
Review:  IT IS SIMPLY Medal OF Honor Allied Assault should have been, even 10 times better!! The game really 
 puts in the shoes of a world war 2 warrior, thanx to its impressive sound, noble engine Quak III, 
 thought the engine is old, it is polished and infinity ward really pushed the limits of this engine! 
 There are lots of memorable missions in the game, all of them are very spectacular and memorable! 
 The are lots of cinamatics and the environment is really world war 2 like. Unlike Medal OF Honor 
 Alied Assault, where is unreal as most of the time you are like defeating 50% of the germans, in 
 Call OF Duty, You will have fellow team mates by your sides which adds realism. Ai is not that 
 advanced, but still nicely done. The sound is superb!! It is like you have to realy on sound for 
 your own safety.
  
  Call Of Duty really pits players on the eyes of a WW2 warrior. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
