-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Capitalism II
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/strategy/capitalism2/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Dec 19, 2001
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8.5
Critic Score: 8.1, 14 Review (s)
User Score: 8.4, 423 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Ubisoft
Developer: Enlight Software
Genre: Business Strategy
Date:     Dec 16, 2001 &raquo;  
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Once competition picks up against the aggressive AI, Capitalism II shows its colors as a great strategy 
 game. Also, as if to help your own bottom line, the game's a real bargain at $20. 

 Since the business world is as cutthroat and lucrative as it is, it's no surprise that it makes 
 for great game material. But while some might think that all such games must have "Tycoon" somewhere 
 in the title, Capitalism II sets its sights higher. If you play your cards right in Capitalism 
 II and establish a globe-spanning corporation, it's not about wealth, but megawealth -- counted in 
 billions. The scale of this game is much more ambitious than that of other Tycoon games or business 
 sims, providing a world where you can control everything from mining operations and media outlets 
 to the manufacturing and retail of around 60 diverse products. This complexity means the game requires 
 quite some effort to learn, but once competition picks up against the aggressive AI, Capitalism 
 II shows its colors as a great strategy game. Also, as if to help your own bottom line, the game's 
 a real bargain at $20.           Capitalism II is a substantial improvement on its predecessor. 
    

  At the heart of Capitalism II is a sophisticated game design that's been expanded and refined since 
 the original version of Capitalism was released in 1995. Both Capitalism games were designed by 
 Trevor Chan, who is also the creator of the Seven Kingdoms games, which innovatively combine real-time 
 strategy combat with Civilization-style empire building. The core of Capitalism is straightforward: 
 The object is to create businesses that buy, produce, or sell products and reinvest the profits 
 to boost revenue and to diversify into new regions and products. Businesses are as customizable 
 as you might hope. You don't need to devote one whole store to aspirin and another to cough syrup -- there's 
 a manageable four product slots you can allocate. Each business is made up of nine building blocks, 
 such as crop growing, manufacturing, purchasing, sales, and advertising, but there are hundreds 
 of easily searchable premade templates, so a working furniture factory is only a few clicks away. 
   

  Once you have some basic businesses turning a profit, the game really opens up. While there are 
 usually a few decent retail goods available for import from nearby seaports, you'll soon have to 
 move into manufacturing to keep your corporation growing. And to get the raw materials for your 
 factories, you'll often have to get into farming, mining, or lumber. Even though it can take a 
 lot of capital -- whether from cash, loans, or a stock offering -- to build this sort of infrastructure, 
 there are ways of starting small. Over time, the key to massive success in the game is vertical 
 integration -- owning every part of the food chain from oil fields and plastic plants to toy factories, 
 stores, and even the TV stations where you advertise.           The game offers a much broader 
 scope than most other business sims.    

  Capitalism II adds new depth, as well as a more accessible presentation, to the original game. 
 The first campaign is entirely devoted to tutorial scenarios that progressively walk you through 
 the game's key mechanics and then provide an open-ended testing ground with a relatively simple 
 goal. For those who have completed the tutorial and at least tried an open-ended random game, there's 
 a second group of five scenarios that quickly ramps up the challenge. The game's interface has 
 seen a number of improvements, including a much better menu system for finding products, automatic 
 relinking of products to new suppliers, and more comprehensive automation for businesses that you 
 can hand over to a well-paid chief operating officer. However, the interface is sorely lacking 
 keyboard shortcuts -- in fact, it's lacking any useful keyboard control. With so many lists and menus 
 to scroll through, it would have been fast and helpful to be able to at least use the standard 
 arrow and "page up" and "page down" keys. While the game may look like Quicken at times, it's not 
 as user-friendly as real business applications have become.            The game's presentation 
 is simple but effective.    

  While some of the game's mechanics are repetitive unless you hire a COO to do your dirty work, 
 there's plenty of competitive drama to keep things from just being work. A real-time stock market 
 not only offers additional possibilities for wealth but also allows for hostile takeover bids and 
 other financial shenanigans. A new complex economy option also monitors the temperature of regional 
 economies, which can dynamically swing from boom to bust. With some luck, it's possible to build 
 or buy apartments and commercial office real estate during a downturn and offload them later when 
 the market is hot. However, the game is ultimately about the traditional economic mainstays of 
 retailing and manufacturing, and here it's variably meek or aggressive AI that makes things particularly 
 interesting. In the more challenging scenarios, you'll be constantly looking for profitable niches 
 that aren't already saturated with competition. With more than 60 products in the game, there's 
 more than enough room to explore different options and strategies, but don't be surprised if at 
 the most aggressive settings, the computer doesn't leave you alone in profitable markets for long. 
   

  Even at the lower levels of difficulty, there's some challenge to be found just in making businesses 
 profitable. It always takes money to make money, and it can take some tweaking to the selling price 
 or branding strategy to build up sufficient demand for a product. What makes Capitalism II so deep 
 and satisfying over time in its modeling of traditional industries is that no two products are 
 alike, thanks to a few key statistics that fundamentally affect what buyers look for in each category. 
 For example, selling cola is little more than fancy marketing for sugar water, so naturally, brand 
 is everything. But with a product like bread, brand is much less important than the other two considerations: 
 price and quality. This combination of scope and specificity is what distinguishes Capitalism II 
 from The Corporate Machine, another recent game with a much more abstract take on competitive business. 
           An aggressive computer opponent makes for great competition.    

  On the technical side, Capitalism II's production values don't match its gameplay. The isometric 
 city graphics convey the sense of a bustling economy, and the amount of traffic on the streets 
 and people on the sidewalks are a meaningful indication of prime locations. Except in the new and 
 rather superfluous in-store views, the overall effect is that of function over form, but you might 
 appreciate that when browsing through the numerous screens of statistics. Capitalism II does add 
 multiplayer capabilities for up to seven players, including a player-matching service through Ubi. com 
 and save-game feature; plus, with limited goals, the game's real-time mechanics are quick enough 
 for competitive play. However, even over a LAN, the interface was noticeably sluggish during multiplayer 
 matches, and it's possible for any player to alter the speed setting at any time, which is a potential 
 point of abuse.   

  There's a lot of micromanagement to Capitalism II, but, like with good "Tycoon" games, that effort 
 earns you addictive hours at the helm of a successful enterprise and vast virtual fortunes. The 
 game has a steep learning curve, but there are real-world lessons to take away from it. The original 
 Capitalism game saw some success among educators for its realistic yet manageable simulation of 
 traditional corporations. If you have a basic idea about what makes businesses work, a thirst for 
 competition, and some patience to learn the ropes, Capitalism II has a lot to offer.    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (9 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: kkushagra99
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 7, 2009 5:29 am PT
Review:  "In terms of scope and comprehensiveness, it has no equal in the world of business simulations."
 
  
  
  The player creates and controls a business empire. This in-depth strategy game covers almost every 
 aspect of business that could be encountered in the real world; including marketing, manufacturing, 
 purchasing, importing, and retailing. It features two new campaigns (Capitalist Campaign and Entrepreneur 
 Campaign) , plus an in-depth tutorial.
  
  The gameplay is very similar to the original version. One noticeable difference from Capitalism 
 I is that there are less products derived from agricultural resources
  
  Capitalism isn't just for those who aspire to be the next Michael Dell or Sam Walton. It can be 
 a fun and useful exercise for anyone who wants to test their entrepreneurial mettle without, for 
 once, taking any risk
  
  For anyone interested in a career in the business world, Capitalism is top notch. It is great for 
 aspiring entrepreneurs out there to test out their theories. ...... And for all those students 
 studying to be MBAs, Capitalism makes a great what-if simulator 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vaskaville
Rating: 5.5
Date: Sep 2, 2008 1:28 pm PT
Review:  I liked playing this game for a few days but then it got very boring so I returned it back to the 
 store. Capitalism 2 is one of those games where you buy it one day and a couple days later your 
 tired of it and that is one of the worst qualities of the game. One of the other worst qualities 
 are the graphics, this game was made in 2001 but it looks like this game was made in 1993, it looks 
 like they used sandpaper for graphics. Like I said, this game was fun for a couple days and then 
 it turned boring. This game has no storyline at all. This game would have been more fun if it was 
 more like Monopoly Tycoon because it had a workable storyline and the graphics were superb. There 
 is one major bug in this game, when you have enough money to buy something it says you don't. Just 
 call this game the .99 cent game. If they ever come out with a sequel of this game it has to be 
 better than this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Matteo86
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 21, 2007 7:46 am PT
Review:  Capitalism II is probably the best in its class and very original in how it is played.
  Allows you to establish and operate most of the details of a simulated business in a realistic 
 market.
  There are many approaches to this game for you to choose.
  You can simply open up a chain of retail stores and sell other companies' products and/or import 
 them. Wide variety of goods to choose from.
  Another approach is to just be a primary producer in manufacturing, mining, lumbering etc to sell 
 off to companies demanding your produce.
  A great feature is the realistic stock market dynamics featured in the game. You can make a large 
 portion of your wealth through the trading of stocks of your competitors. Since you normally start 
 with $50m in the game, your returns can be limitless similar to investment strategies used to real 
 stock markets.
  Ofcourse, you can be a 'jack of all trades' and take ownership from primary production and product 
 innovation/invention all the way up to sales to the end consumer.
  Marketing, product research, mergers &amp; takeovers, property investment, hiring and firing your 
 executives, it's all included. The graphics are 2D and nothing special, but considering when this 
 title was released, and the fact that it's a business sim, this isn't really a major downside.
 
  Gameplay is reasonably simple although you should give it at least 1-2 hours to learn how to thoroughly 
 play this game.
  You can pick up this title in bargain bins probably for less than $10 these days - EXCELLENT value 
 for the price provided that you're looking for this sort of challenge in a game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kellerwe
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 22, 2007 5:12 am PT
Review:  Before we even get started, I need to immediately mention that this is not a game for casual financial 
 empire builders or those who expect some fancy gee wizz graphics on the fly.
  
  No, this is almost not a game, but rather something that should be used as a business simulator 
 for those interested in pre-graduate economic studies - it's that good, when it comes to emulating 
 all the factors that affect a budding corporation in a scaled down world economy.
  
  Gameplay:
  
  Given the constraints of a virtual economic environment, it's almost hard to better 
 the gameplay in Capitalism II.
  
  As a self made entrepreneur, you need to decide exactly how you are going to make money and where, 
 with the option of trading in up to four virtual world cities at the same time, while having to 
 contend with local competitors and a number of AI managed players (assuming you are playing single 
 player of course) .
  
  Each city has its own economic cycles and climate shifts, from boom right down to recession, all 
 of which naturally have an effect on your industries in that particular city, be it a silicon mine, 
 oil field, manufacturing plant or grocery store.
  
  You can trade in literally dozens of different goods, from sneakers to gold watches, computers, 
 cameras and even perishable goods. You can buy and sell, import or even manufacture your own goods 
 if you have enough dough and want to beat the competition as far as price and quality is concerned.
 
  
  For the latter you can also do research to improve your product quality and ultimately get an edge 
 on the competition by being first to market with some new product or technology.
  
  The game is so detailed, that it even incorporates several business processes at a fairly low level, 
 such as the relationships between Marketing, Sales, Logistics and Procurement in each of your businesses. 
 For manufacturing plants you can even manage processes associated with the flow of raw-materials, 
 right down to finished goods and ultimately Sales.
  
  Factors such as quality, branding and brand awareness are all incorporated into your products (purchased 
 or manufactured) and ultimately play a big part in how competitive your business will be against 
 AI competitors.
  
  There's almost too much depth here to mention in a relatively short review, but you will also soon 
 learn the relationship between economic climate, revenue, profits and other factors affecting your 
 virtual share price. Beware, if the price to earnings ratio of your share becomes to attractive, 
 the AI managed players will soon gobble up most of your available public shares and you may just 
 end up working for one them!
  
  There are so many other factors that need your constant attention such as hiring the right CFO 
 and COO among others - too much to cover in any great depth here.
  
  Suffice to say, the gameplay is almost perfect as far as I am concerned, although the interface 
 may appear a bit clunky to most first-time players. Don't let that put you off - you don't need 
 a fancy 3D environment to do what is needed in this game.
  
  Graphics:
  
  Almost redundant, since you will probably end up spending most of your time looking at individual 
 business reports and other data regarding your business, and hence why the developers probably 
 didn't put too much detail into this. Overall, the game actually doesn't look that bad either.
 
  
  Sound:
  
  How much sound do you need except the sound of money - whatever that may be.
  
  Value:
  
 
  At the recommended retail pricing I have seen, you simply can't go wrong if you are into this 
 kind of thing.
  
  Who Should Get It:
  
  Anyone who is serious about learning - in some detail - how to manage a large corporation without 
 having to go out and borrow a couple of million from someone.
  
  Who Shouldn't Bother:
  
  Anyone who enjoys shooting, blasting, punching, crawling, chasing, driving, flying or living 
 in a fantasy world with their cherished avatar, unless of course you also have a fair amount of 
 patience and like to watch a business grow. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kingrich06
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 15, 2007 4:40 pm PT
Review:  If you like micro management strategy games this is by far one of the best ones I've seen. When 
 I say micro management, I mean micro management down to the last price of product.
  
  The basics are simple. You are given set amount of capital (in stocks and in cash) . You goal is 
 simple make as much money as you can. You can control the resources to the end product.
  
  In the scenarios, you goals are to gain market share or to introduce new products.
  
  Music 
 is passable, mind you I turned it off due to the repetition of the score. Sound is decent. One 
 of the few ways of seeing how you retail store is doing is by seeing how many people in there and 
 how noisy it is.
  
  Graphics are what I find a bit of a downgrade from the previous edition, not real pictures.
  
 
  What makes this addictive is the amount of products you can develop and sell. I like statistics 
 and you have menus and menus of choices to see how your faring.
  
  The few flaws I find that would make this a truly classic is there only 9 sections to a building, 
 thus restricting to only a few items for sale in a retail store, like in what real life store only 
 sells 4 items or even 4 of types of items.
  
  The other one the difficulty levels not that difficult. The AI is slow to react. The AI doesnt 
 have a cutthroat mentality when running its company. I doesnt try to put you out of business by 
 trying to compete with you on you best product (s)
  
  In all I like the game and that you can replay it over and over. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: camiloripa
Rating: 8.4
Date: Nov 23, 2006 9:28 am PT
Review:  For those who are into the economics and business, this is the best simulator you would ever have. 
 You will be able to learn, without risking money!
  
  Since I did not have the pleasure of playing the first version of the series, Im not able to establish 
 that comparison. But, with the little experience I have at economic analysis, I must tell you, 
 this is an excellent game. Though some effort is invested at the graphics and sound, that is not 
 its strength, as is not intended to be. Capitalism II is a powerful simulator of real life business 
 development. Although some corporate finance can be applied to understand deeply the problems will 
 be faced by your firm, the most interesting issue is that a non initiated player into the finance 
 matter will be able to understand it and enjoy it. During the several pre designed tutorial scenarios 
 the basic issues of the game will be showed and trained. Then you will be able to exploit all your 
 new skills at the customizable levels and through multiplayer. That issue varies from the proper 
 choice of suppliers, to the optimal leverage strategies, by choosing between debt and stock. I 
 strongly recommend this game for both those who want to have fun while fantasize with having a 
 megacorp one day, for those with real interest of understanding the basics principles of entrepreneurship 
 and have solid plans of applying it 
::::::

::::::
UserName: malaloko
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 10, 2006 7:57 am PT
Review:  I always loved this kind of game, started playing Tycoon Pizza, Detroit, Transport Tycoon and many 
 other buziness strategy game.
  
  I enjoyned all sequel, from the first Capitalism, then Capitalism Plus and now Capitalism 2...
 
  
  The first 2 games we used to play hot-seat (me and my bro) and with Capitalism 2 we can play using 
 LAN or Internet.
  
  We have few bugs on Multiplayer game but they dont take out all the pleasure you have playing this 
 great game...
  
  You can do EVERYTHING...
  
  Can mine your own silica, logg out your own timber, mine chemical minerals, oil and many other 
 raw materials used to make tons of semi-industrialized materials...
  
  Then with your own raw materials and semi-industrialized materials you can do almost everything 
 you know it exists, from the chicken soup sold on markets to high-tech computers sold on computer 
 store...
  
  After you are manufacturing your products, such as Televisions and Desktop Computer, you can invest 
 on Research and Develop to improve its quality.
  
  On every store you can (and should) invest on marketing to improve your products brand.
  
  
 Having high brand and quality means better profit.
  
  And what is the most impressive about this game is the stock market, wich allow you to make everything 
 and even buy competitors companies.
  
  In this game you have TONS of products, raw materials, semi-industrialized products, farm products, 
 livestock and many more. You can even own a Mansion!!!
  
  In other words, its the best game EVER!!!!!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: io764
Rating: 8.7
Date: Mar 16, 2006 9:42 am PT
Review:  
  With this game, it's always a case of "just 1 more turn", happily, that 1 turn never seems to end... 
 
  
  Capitalism 2 is perhaps one of the best business sims i've ever played, despite the fact that there 
 have been a whole bunch of pretenders since then. 
  
  Sure the graphics are nothing to call home about, but the gameplay is solid, the business models 
 robust and it's just plain ol' fun. lots of (non-gaming) folks are always complaining about there 
 being too much violence in gaming; well, here's one to try out without that concern, and you might 
 learn something to boot!
  
  I've read somewhere that a Harvard prof. uses this game to teach basic business concepts to his 
 students -- all i can say is, i'm not surprised! 
  
  If you enjoy business sims, give this game a try -- you won't regret it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jacobderosenoir
Rating: 8.9
Date: Mar 9, 2006 6:06 am PT
Review:  Ok, I'm may be the only one to give this game a 10 but I stick to it. Sure you must be a fan of 
 the genre. Youngster look elsewhere unless your toilet reading is the Wall Street Journal. 
  
  This simulation is perfect. Every business school should use it for teaching what you should 
 and shouldn't do in business. The interface may be imposing but after a while you get around it. 
 What is a little bit more complex to figure is how to make your business profitable. You might 
 go through one or two false start and experiment before keeping up with the AI controled company. 
 
  
  There are a lot of variable that influence the well being of your product and your profitability. 
 You can use different source of raw material, decide if you use your opponent's raw material or 
 the oversea's one even if it is more expensive. Should you keep on your price structure and hope 
 that your opponent cheaper price will drown him or should you use the power of your vertical structure 
 and drop your prices below profitability until your opponent decides he can keep up with you. Those 
 are only a couple of exemple of the multitude decisions you can make. 
  
  But what a thrill it is to setup a complete vertical product line from raw material to your wonderful 
 car. As far as I'm concerned, this is as close as you can get of being Donald Trump without having 
 your own show on television.... 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
