-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Carmageddon 3: TDR 2000
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/driving/carmageddon3tdr2000/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Dec 15, 2000
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 5.7
Critic Score: 6.6, 7 Review (s)
User Score: 7.1, 393 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Xicat Interactive
Developer: Torus Games
Genre: Car Combat
Date:     Dec 14, 2000
ESRB: Mature

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Thanks to the inexplicable inclusion of timed exploration tasks in between the racing levels, Carmageddon 
 3 is exactly one half fun and one half frustration. 

 Love it or hate it, the Carmageddon series has always been about hitting innocent pedestrians with 
 a car. Since first climbing out of a boiling prehistoric puddle to test out its new lungs, humankind 
 has dreamed of plowing over others with monster trucks. It's a sick fantasy that doesn't really 
 need a whole lot of explanation; therefore, it hasn't been saddled with a whole lot of unnecessary 
 plot in the previous Carmageddons. However, perhaps in an attempt to broaden the series' horizons, 
 the developers of Carmageddon 3: TDR 2000 have injected some story and adventure elements into 
 this third installment. And to be quite honest, these new elements are simply a tedious distraction 
 from why you're likely playing the game in the first place: running people - and sometimes animals 
 - over with an alligator-finned Frankenstein car.   

  The story goes something like this: blah, blah, blah, something happened, blah, blah, blah, urban 
 nightmare, etc., etc., and now you're running people over. And if the plot stopped after a few 
 paragraphs in the manual and a couple of cutscenes, there'd be no problem. Unfortunately, the game 
 is structured as a series of relatively enjoyable race levels with an often incredibly frustrating 
 mandatory exploration level stuck between each one. For instance, the very first sequence requires 
 you to scour an amusement park, look for three bomb pieces, and then drop off the bomb in front 
 of a specific building. The problem is that the game's trademark exaggerated car physics work well 
 for wacky, destruction derby-style racing at high speeds, but are totally unsuited to slow-paced 
 exploration. And when you combine the exaggerated physics with cramped level design - which often 
 has you navigating lots of twisty little alleys, the interiors of buildings, and catwalks - and 
 then further compound the problem by imposing strict time limits on every mission, you end up with 
 one big headache instead of having any fun. Imagine controlling Tomb Raider's Lara Croft as if 
 she were a truck - she'd roll over onto her back every time she jumped.   

  On the other hand, the racing levels, for the most part, provide the wild, car-flinging, pedestrian-smashing 
 action that fans of the series have come to expect. The tracks are large, and they offer a lot 
 of variety in terms of obstacles and scenery. There are plenty of jumps, loops, shortcuts, and, 
 of course, foot traffic. As in the previous installments, you can win a race by destroying all 
 your opponents or killing all the pedestrians on the level. You can also win by actually winning 
 the race. Each track has a series of checkpoints that make up a full lap. How you get from one 
 checkpoint to another is up to you, as long as you hit them in order. Each checkpoint also grants 
 you more time, which is another new and unwelcome feature to the series. The timer from the exploration 
 levels is also present in the racing levels - run out of time, and you're out of the race. And 
 since you're given so little time, completing the checkpoints becomes more or less the only option 
 for winning the races. You can pick up various power-ups and weapons that help you attack the other 
 vehicles, but the time constraint is so severe that it won't really make much difference. Still, 
 the races - complete with huge jumps, crazy pileups, and constant action - can be pretty enjoyable. 
   

  The series' graphics have always been a little behind the curve, so strict traditionalists will 
 be happy to hear that part three's visuals are not especially spectacular. Though the tracks are 
 large, and though they have a lot of little polygon people running around on them, everything's 
 pretty blocky. Plus, the textures all seem blurry and smeared. Fortunately, the cars look good 
 and appear to be a lot more detailed than the surrounding environments. As they take damage, parts 
 fly off the vehicles until they finally become flaming skeletal wrecks. The huge variety in the 
 different damage that each car can display is probably Carmageddon 3's most impressive feature. 
   

  The game's soundtrack by Utah Saints is appropriate, if forgettable, though it's nice to see they're 
 still getting work. The sound effects, from the roar of engines to the screams and curses of pedestrians, 
 are generally well done.   

  The game also features six different multiplayer modes that are playable over TCP/IP, a modem, 
 or a direct serial connection. The games range from straightforward racing to destruction derby 
 to a vehicular version of the playground classic Red Rover. Multiplayer offers plenty of mindless 
 action, but no in-game server finder is provided, so you may have a tough time tracking down a 
 match.   

  Thanks to the inexplicable inclusion of timed exploration tasks in between the racing levels, Carmageddon 
 3 is exactly one half fun and one half frustration. Unfortunately, the frustrating parts tend to 
 overshadow the good ones.    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (10 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Gregox
Rating: 5
Date: Jul 15, 2008 9:15 am PT
Review:  Carmageddon is a game that is suppose to be fun and destructive, well at carmageddon 1 that happens, 
 its good but nothing special. Then it was released the carmageddon 2, for me is the best in the 
 series. When carmageddon 3 was released I was pretty excited to play, but then what do I see?, 
 No destruction arcade?, No impact?, No speed?, A soundtrack that could be better?. Thats what 
 I see a game that is flashy but with worst content than the others. Its supposed to be the best 
 because of the success of the others but nothing, really disappointing...
  
  But talking about the game: Carmageddon 3 is almost the opposite of the others without any impact, 
 speed or power. The objective of the game is to destroy the opponents cars and in this game is 
 a little difficult the cars are even more solid but when we hit them instead of destroying them 
 we destroy ourselves. What can we do? the only thing is to throw some bombs and wait for to finally 
 being destroyed, what the player want in my view is impact, emotion, cars exploding when we hit 
 them. The game turned out to be to formal with less arcade.
  
  Another disappointing points the no-existence of Menu, like in Carmageddon 2, that could improve 
 the game with survival and free modes.
  The soundtrack is nothing special, isnt bad but isnt good either.
  
  5 is a very acceptable 
 score for a game that is flashy but with no content or substance. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: macaque12
Rating: 9.4
Date: Aug 3, 2007 10:15 am PT
Review:  It's probably impossible that you've never heard about Carmageddon; all the facts involving this 
 wrecking, violent and anti-human game that offers a gore party to you delight yourself killing 
 and crashing around colourfull and post-pocalyptic levels. Facts that guaranteed that the game 
 became forbidden into lots of countries (probably the main reason for it's success)
  
  When the demo of Carmageddon TDR 2000 came out, it seemed that a great game was coming out, high 
 quality graphics, nice physics, ped's details improved, but a fraking time limit that made your 
 exploration shorter. The demo made good impressions for the fans and many were excited.
  
  So, when it finally came out, a big smile and a big sadness took fans fifty-fifty. The visuals 
 were ok, but a time limit of 4 minutes on every single race reduced our explorations on levels 
 and forced us to fight hard for not losing the race, 'cause we were out of time 
  
  Different from Carmageddon 1 and 2; now you have 10 levels, 9 of them wiht 3 races and 3 missions 
 and one of them with only a single (but, totally, the best mission of the game) . A good point here 
 is that each mission helps to reach and comprehend the history behind the game. All the missions 
 are simple and kind easy: get a bomb, destroy a building, kill an especific opponent you must complete 
 all missions and races to advance in the game and beat the final boss. To receive a great gift!
 
  
  Physics, graphics and gameplay really suffered improvements; the weak and boring gameply from Carmageddon 
 1 and 2 disappeared and and now you can feel your car better. Graphics are smooth and cars are 
 really detailed. Phsycis are nice, not great! But if you think about the year that the game was 
 realeases (2000) ; physics and graphics were more than satisfatory.
  
  Fun factor is guarantee! You can finish the game a lot of times and you won't get bored! I am a 
 living prove. I finished this game 28 times (I am not lying!!) and on the first two times, I had 
 no graphic card, so the game ran at a very slow performace.
  
  As always, games have problems. And TDR 2000 has it's own major errors. First: time limit. No one 
 ever imagined Carmageddon with time limit! It, obviously, turned the game harder, but it made it 
 frustating. it was really nice when you could ran over 10 peds, gain 2 minutes plus bonus and have 
 fun exploring all the map. SCi and Torus (developers) were woried with it and they simple added 
 a Free gameplay that has no limit time, but it lacks on content and could be more detailed and 
 well done worked.
  Second: short levels. It was almost incredible when you put your finger on the keyboard, hit tab 
 (map level key) and see a short aplce to drive, with few secret spots! It was disappointing, but 
 - as mentioned before - fun factor is guarantee - since you start hitting and killing, a sadistic 
 smile will appear on your face!
  
  The game, by itself is really fun and well done. It will entertain you for hours, days and even 
 months! If you want a nice-looking, killer and relaxing game: Carmageddon TDR 2000 must be your 
 choice! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: megamanenmm
Rating: 7.1
Date: Apr 19, 2007 12:26 pm PT
Review:  to begin with i got this game from my parents.
  i like it.
  you can race against the ai.
  i never play on the missions mode.
  why you ask?
  it has a timer, and the control can feel 
 a little slippery.
  i hate the timer.
  also it has way too hard missions.
  you must collect bombs to blow stuff in and of course the timer.
  you can earn money by crashing 
 into other cars overrun people with is pretty fun, or by overunning peope.
  with the money you can buy new cars or upgrade the car you have.
  you can earn new cars by destroying 
 the cars into the race.
  but with the timer??
  it can take some time to total destroy the car you want to buy.
  so i always use the freeplay 
 mode.
  to start of good NO TIMER!
  also you can adjust the level.
  you can chose how many cops there are how many racers how many people walking on the streets and 
 the aggression of the opponent's.
  and no rules.
  i like to just overrun people.
  the blood looks so nice.
  also you can find powerups on the roads.
  they range to push the 
 cars feets back to burn people!
  there are many kinds of powerups.
  there is also one that let you climb walls.
  and you can repair you car instant while your in 
 the race.
  but it cost money.
  also you can teleport if you are stuck in the water.
  or you can also teleport for fun but it costs money too.
  and there is multiplayer too.
  but 
 i don't use it because it don't works on my pc for some reason.
  thats pretty much lets recap shall whe?
  
  good parts:
  -cool powerups
  -free play mode
 
  -multiplayer
  -overunning people is fun
  -you can teleport and repair
  
  bad parts:
  -a timer (not in free play)
  -missions are weird and boring.
  -control feels a little slippery 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Shub-Niggurath
Rating: 2
Date: Nov 23, 2006 6:07 pm PT
Review:  Carmageddon 3: TDR 2000 is the next and final installation in Stainless interactives Racing series 
 for the Chemically Imbalanced. The series was also handed off in large part from Interplay to 
 Xicat. It attempts to elaborate on the new game play additions made in part two.
  
  I believe in pointing out the good before pointing out the bad so allow me to continue.
  
  
 I have always had a soft spot for the Carmageddon series. Since its inception Ive labeled it 
 as a guilty pleasure. It was always just kind of fun to roll around a post-apocalyptic cityscape 
 smashing rival racers and pedestrians. Its always been fun to kill with the near invincibility 
 this series has afforded the player.
  
  I was never too crazy about the vehicle physics and they really put me off in the last two games. 
 The cars were very, very floaty and it was more like racing around a series of boats than different 
 cars. It didnt matter which car you took. The handling between vehicles merely ranged from insanely 
 difficult to totally impossible. However, TDR 2000 managed to fix that and made the vehicle physics 
 tolerable enough to play the game.
  
  With that in mind youre probably asking Well then, Nyralathotep, what in the hell is so bad about 
 this game? Ill tell you: They somehow managed to take all the fun out of the smashing, crashing, 
 and killingeven with the improved physics.
  
  First off, in the first two games smashing opponents and pedestrians would net absurdly high bonuses 
 both in time and in points. Bonus time was added to the in-game timer which was constantly on a 
 steady course to zero. However, smashing a few opponents and mowing down the games acres and acres 
 of pedestrians or even blowing through check points (but seriously, no one plays Carmageddon simply 
 for the racing) would net whopping time bonuses often resulting in the timer seeming to stick at 
 99:99. It would just keep adding time and therefore never get anywhere near zero. You could play 
 any one level for an almost infinite amount of time. However, the game did offer up one mission 
 based exploration challenge for every three racing levels in a given location. These were fairly 
 annoying attempts in Carmageddon 2 to add some depth to a very shallow game. You were charged with 
 what was essentially nothing more than a trumped up version of the games check point racing system 
 with objectives ranging from merely races with no opponents where check point crossing was mandatory 
 to destroy Item A, then B, then C, etc, etc.. However, the games always frustrating physics 
 made it almost impossible to complete these tasks. You would often over shoot your mark or end 
 up having to salvage your vehicle multiple times before you could hit the check point.
  
  TDR 2000 does away with the oodles of time feature. No matter how much you smash, including grabbing 
 actual time bonuses, the timer will never exceed 4 minutes. Even in the normal races you only have 
 a maximum of 4 minutes, and no bonus time. You can keep resetting it using the methods mentioned 
 before but they also curbed the bonuses to adhere to this lower time. For example if you have 3:38 
 left to go you can only earn a maximum time bonus of :22. They even toughened up the pedestrians 
 so to kill any of them you have to either push them into water, off a cliff, or run over them at 
 an absurdly high rate of speed. Smashing peds and opponents often nets you a bonus of less than 
 10 seconds. Once again, mutilating peds in the almost laughably timed mission races nets no bonus 
 at all. As for the driving the only real improvement is the physics. Even they seem a little glitchy 
 now but at the time they were excellent, for the series especially. However in exchange for the 
 physics we are given the worst, most frustrating elements of the series and left to wonder what 
 Xicat was doing wrong. The frustratingly timed missions are now presented as every other race, 
 sometimes twice to 3 times in a row.
  
  Even the menu interfaces are strange, and at times even a little awkward. Any time you do anything 
 it nets a typed reaction from what I can only assume is the computer whose console the menu interface 
 wishes to represent. Every time you buy a car you get a message that says Arrrrr. shes a beauty. 
 Apparently youre buying cars from Patchy the freaking Pirate. Its frustrating at times, especially 
 when you just want to buy the car and move on. The only real improvement to the Garage Management 
 system is that you no longer have to seek out and add extra armor, offensive, and power slots and 
 points to the vehicle in each level. They are freely available to purchase in the garage menu. 
 However, even this is kind of annoying because clicking to add a slot or fill one nets a Extra 
 Blah slot/point costs Blah credits message with an OK or Cancel button. Also, the extra points 
 are not for one car. Buying them adds them to your profile so regardless of what car youre using 
 you always have the points at hand. The game also maintains the Car Buying interface. You cannot 
 buy any car you didnt waste during the previous race. This keeps you slightly handicapped at all 
 times by making you use obsolete vehicles. Once again, they strip out the good stuff and keep 
 or replace it with crap.
  
  The play controls are OK but even they get a little frustrating. During game play you often get 
 your car wedged under both active and dead opponents, hung on the environment, or otherwise stuck. 
 You then have to be recovered at a steep cost of credits to you. Even then it doesnt always work 
 right. Occasionally a recovery will have seemingly no effect and you will find yourself still stranded 
 despite having lost the 20,000 credit points to pay for it. Collision detection seems kind of whacky, 
 too. Smashing headlong into an opposing racer or cop and knocking off all the body work and twisting 
 the frame will inflict no damage to the car outside of the aesthetics. Then backing away from them 
 you bump them at a low rate of speed or drive them into the wall at an equally slow rate and their 
 health takes a 20-50% nose dive. Occasionally at high speeds theres a delay between the hit, recoil, 
 and damage. It will seem to almost pause the two cars in mid hit while the graphics engine plays 
 catch-up to generate the recoil and the damage. Also, with the damage you can find your car hung 
 up and useless on a simple piece of opponents body work. This is just another nail in the coffin.
 
  
  Also the graphics in this game are HIDEOUS, even by the standards of the time. They work to set 
 a mood by making everything gritty, dirty, and just generally unclean to the eye. However, the 
 bad car detailing, card board cut-out style pedestrians, and the generally blurry, lack luster 
 details of the racing world made the game look out of date even when it was new. It is a real low 
 point in the game. They tried to make everything look better than the mish-mashed, mismatched, 
 hodgepodge of pastel colored monster polygons of the previous games but the car designs still look 
 very rushed and amateur-ish. Wheel covers are often two dimensional blobs of color, and attempts 
 at shading certain polygons in the body to create the illusion of depth just make for an experience 
 for your eyes thats less than enjoyable. Kind of like the rest of the game is to the rest of your 
 senses.
  
  Then we move on to the sound. This is a painful low point. Pedestrians yell things at you, other 
 drivers yell things at you, and then you have the spare motorists just putting around each and 
 every race track seemingly totally oblivious to you, your fellow racers, the cops, the environment, 
 or anything else for that matter. Smashing one of them makes them hit the horn as it dies out generating 
 a horrid sort of honking noise that cuts right through everything. Add to that a few pedestrians, 
 cop cars, and fellow racers yelling random phrases at you and you get a god-awful cacophony which 
 makes you want to play the game in mute. The soundtrack is equally unimpressive, borrowing heavily 
 from some severely efed up scores that grate on the nerves as much as the game noises you can 
 find no solace from the headaches here. Occasionally the engine noise is drowned out or begins 
 to stutter and crack like its coming through a blown speaker. This is just a side-effect of the 
 game not being able to process and separate the effects from each other. That now makes the game 
 unpleasant to play, watch being played, or hear being played. Thats pretty much everything you 
 could ever do with a video game.
  
  To wrap up this rather lengthy bash-fest I will say this:
  
  SCI seemed to do nothing but learn 
 the WRONG lessons from every Carmageddon game up to this point. Each of the sequels is of lesser 
 quality than its predecessor. Part 3 is merely the culmination of learning the wrong lessons twice 
 in a row. I dont understand how a series with this much promise could go so badly, so quickly. 
 I dont know who was truly calling the shots when they decided what stayed from old to new but 
 whoever it is has now obviously lost their job and for damn good reasons. They repaired the vehicle 
 physics which was the games Achilles Heel but they simply added more fatal flaws on top of it. 
 Even with the option to play the race and smash levels on your own, free of time limit in Free 
 Ride mode, I cannot recommend this game to anyone other than the select few Carmageddon fan boys 
 who will buy it regardless of the game itself because of their blinding, almost religious devotion 
 to the series. Sorry fellas. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wolfcub1111
Rating: 4.5
Date: Jun 13, 2006 6:41 pm PT
Review:  When I say at the store that there was a Carmageddon 3 I was like OMG I GOTTA GET THIS!!! But oh 
 was I wrong!!! I will agree that Carmageddon 3 tdr2000 is fun. But it is nothing like the prized 
 Carmageddon or Carmageddon 2 Carpocalyps Now!!! It is much too hard compared to them also. Plus 
 there are !!! WAY TOO MANY!!! find and pickup missions! I do enjoy the reckless driving and mindless 
 killing, but hey, that's why I play Carmageddon!!! So all in all it is fun but those who have played 
 the series since the original they won't like it, but if your new you will enjoy this title for 
 a good budget game.
  
  P. S. The timer is too strict too!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ufofreak
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jan 15, 2006 12:25 pm PT
Review:  My girlfriend left me over this game 2years ago! WOOHOO!!! Its like crack-cocaine baby... I just 
 cant stop! It's mindless blood-thirsty fun. How could anyone who's played this game not love it? 
 I could of earned a masters degree with the amount of time I've spent playing this thing. The driving 
 and crash phisics are unsurpassed, even after all these years. Although I have finished the game 
 many times over the years, my favorite level is still level 1. How many games can you say that about? 
 My only question is... where the hell is the sequel? I demand a sequel!! How bout it. PLEASE?! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: absintheguy818
Rating: 9.9
Date: Dec 4, 2005 2:19 pm PT
Review:  Some one who gave this a 5.5 rating must have a ex that worked on it cause there is no weak points 
 in this game what so ever, the grafics sound and most of all game play is top notch.
  You can play this game for hours and hours, then when u stop one month later youll want to dust 
 it off and play again, once I beat a game it usually sits and never gets played again , I still 
 play this after almost 3 years.
  This is one of the best destructive car games ever made! period, bottom line this game is now cheap, 
 but will entertain you for hours and hours and , never gets old or out dated. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: heroesisthebest
Rating: 9.7
Date: Nov 12, 2005 10:44 am PT
Review:  The Carmageddon series have always been of my favourites, but I dare to say that this is the best 
 one. 
  
  If you look at someone playing this game without knowing anything about it, you might think it's 
 a horrible game. But when looking closer you see how much humour and fun there is in it, from the 
 totally funny mission descriptions to the story to the hilarious powerups ("Nuclear bomb", "Kangaroo 
 on command", "Bouncy bouncy"...) .
  
  The physics are great, adapted for every object. Splatting pedestrians is even more fun than earlier, 
 as they hang on your hood or fly through the air. One of the best things in the game might be the 
 cars' abilities to break and shatter in a virtually endless amount of ways. The cars will most 
 likely land or turn over on their wheels at the end of a stunt, and it looks extremely realistic.
 
  
  Unlike other car games, you can go whereever you want and do whatever you want. (But if you somehow 
 get over the huge walls between the "worlds you get teleported back, of course.)
  In the races you will earn money for doing almost everything you wouldn't do in real life, and 
 afterwards you can either buy new cars or upgrade them.
  There are multiple ways of winning the races. I will come back to this later. But I'm not going 
 through every single aspect of the game though.
  
  The graphics are absolutely good enough, as always they used the graphical style which fit best 
 with the currently available technology. You won't find much annoying in this category. The post-apocalyptic 
 landscapes look great, the car designs are brilliant, and everything else is cool enough too. It 
 all works.
  
  In the game, the sound is good enough. Although the amount of crashing sounds is limited, they 
 are all great and come when they fit. One thing I think is rather negative is the voices of your 
 opponents. They often say strange things when being crashed into, or when crashing into you. That's 
 okay, but they get repetitive. 
  Every other aspect of the sound is nice. Nothing is annoying.
  The music is simply perfect for 
 the game. I can't imagine the game with anything else.
  
  Even after completing it, driving around in free play mode is plainly great fun! You have loads 
 of different cars, from dragsters to huge mine trucks, and huge environments where you can always 
 use one of your crazy powerups to go somewhere where no other car has been.
  There is also a multiplayer mode where players can crash eachother and a number of other things. 
 Great replay value.
  
  You win a race by either killing all the people on the map (extremely time demanding and hard) , 
 wasting all opponents, or racing through the laps.
  When you do very much morally wrong (and you will) , the cops will come for you. And at some point 
 the "Suppressors" arrive. Apart from the time limit, they are the greatest threats.
  
  Every second mission is an actual mission though, where the rules previously mentioned do not count. 
 Here you must do certain things within time limits. This can be frustrating if your car (or yourself) 
 isn't good enough. Both can be fixed by going back and racing a few regular tracks. A game must 
 be hard in some way.
  
  Many say that the downside with the gameplay is the time limit. You have to crush, kill, destroy 
 or race in order to keep the remaining time high.
  But it's got to be there, as it the game would be much easier and less adrenaline filled without 
 it.
  You can always turn it off in free play mode though. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: musaffa
Rating: 9.3
Date: Feb 19, 2005 7:42 pm PT
Review:  This is one of those games that you will play for years to come. Just like it's predecessors, TDR 
 is addictive in a way that is hard to describe. If you have played either of the other games then 
 you know what I mean. Part 3 just does everything better. Better graphics, better physics, and 
 better maps. 
  The story is lame and the missions flat out suck. Playing through the entire game the first time 
 can get a little irritating, but once you unlock all of the maps the real fun starts. My favorite 
 thing to do in this game is turn off the clock and just drive around playing with the physics engine. 
 
  Also, this game is not for traditional racing fans or children. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mslinklater
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 4, 2004 4:46 am PT
Review:  Carmageddon TDR2000 builds on the sometimes loved sometimes hated Carmageddon series. Featuring 
 improved graphics and a more interactive physics simulation than it's predecessors, TDR2000 gives 
 the player a sandbox environment to play with vehicles in. Personally I love this game and have 
 spent what must be over a hundred hours driving around and seeing what's possible. The single player 
 story mode is a little silly and can at times be crushingly unfair, but once you unlock the levels 
 and vehicles, this game is pure fun on a stick. Not recommended for those looking for Gran Turismo 
 or Burnout, but a definite must for anyone who just wants to mess around with crazy vehicles in 
 crazy environments. This game features to most impressive physics engine of any game I have played, 
 even a number of years after it's launch. A niche game, yes, but well worth a look. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
