-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Carmageddon 2: Carpocalypse Now
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/driving/carmageddon2carpocalypsenow/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Jan  6, 1999
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7.8
Critic Score: 8.0, 17 Review (s)
User Score: 8.4, 742 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Interplay
Developer: Stainless Studios
Genre: Car Combat
Date:     Nov 30, 1998 &raquo;  

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
If you're not adverse to a little lowbrow humor and a lot of violence and mayhem, you'll find plenty 
 of action and still more fun in Carmageddon II. 

 The original Carmageddon was banned in Brazil for inspiring road rage. Well, if you're the sort 
 to play a game and apply those skills you've just cultivated to your real-life routine, then not 
 only should you not come anywhere near Carmageddon II, but you should probably just be locked up 
 somewhere safe. However, if you're not adverse to a little lowbrow humor and a lot of violence 
 and mayhem, you'll find plenty of action and still more fun in the visually refined sequel.  

 
 You'll need to be at least a little mean-spirited to truly appreciate them, but Carmageddon II's 
 graphics look good by any standards. The three dozen-odd cars are meticulously detailed and wildly 
 creative: You get to drive and destroy everything from a tricked-out '70s low-rider sporting front-mounted 
 jackhammers, to a muscle car crossed with a World War II prop plane, to a dragster, to a dune buggy, 
 and much more. They're not real cars, but they look real enough, especially when you smash them 
 (or into them) and they crumple and crack in all the right places. Then again, the cars in Carmageddon 
 always did look good, although the same couldn't be said for their targets, the lowly pedestrians 
 who were mere 2D sprites in the first game and didn't look right against the 3D cars. But now the 
 pedestrians, comprising a cornucopia of humans and wildlife, join their hunters in the third dimension, 
 which unlocks a world of gory, new opportunities for the player. They'll come apart at the seams, 
 go flying through the air, burst into blood and guts, and worse as you careen into them in every 
 which way, earning money for each and every kill. Were it not for the rather plain-looking tracks 
 and a frame rate that can falter even on high-end systems, Carmageddon II would look entirely excellent. 

 Of course it's tasteless. But if the country can embrace a foul-mouthed and foul-mannered prime-time 
 cartoon show, then it's ready for Carmageddon II. Besides, it's a funny game. You'll pick up dozens 
 of different power-ups that affect the innocent bystanders in absurdly hilarious ways: They'll 
 explode when hit, pop and fly away, dance in place, stumble like drunks, have huge heads, turn 
 huge altogether, turn tiny, turn fat, turn tall, turn skinny, turn completely immortal - you name 
 it. And the carnage is set to the perfectly appropriate music of the quintessential heavy metal 
 band Iron Maiden, as well as a few guitar-heavy instrumental pieces that, while they aren't Maiden, 
 aren't bad. Unfortunately, the other sound effects in the game are only fair, as pedestrian screams 
 and steel wrenching against steel all start to get repetitive fast.  

 In any event, you'll probably be too wrapped up in the game to be bothered. Like the first game, 
 you don't need to follow too many rules. You can race around the track past a series of checkpoints 
 through several laps and end a race, but you'll often find it easier (and a lot more fun) to total 
 all the enemy cars vying to do the same. Either objective is made both challenging and enjoyable 
 thanks to the wacky hyperrealistic physics model behind the game that has cars careening through 
 the air and against buildings and one another at the slightest invitation. You'll find yourself 
 in all sorts of incredible and ridiculous wrecks, often with those hapless pedestrians at the center. 
 Thankfully, you can magically repair or recover your car at the touch of a button, and for a price. 
 And because the collisions rarely force you into a frustrating situation, and the physics model 
 is so open-ended, and there are so many silly power-ups, Carmageddon II ends up being entertaining 
 for a long time.  

 That's not to say it never gets annoying; because of the linear race progression, you'll sometimes 
 get stuck on a timed mission objective that you'll have to replay until you get it right. But the 
 game isn't all that difficult, and a little perseverance should get you past any roadblocks, metaphorical 
 or not. What you're left with, then, is a game that isn't serious at all but instead offers a fun 
 and colorful, albeit predominantly red, environment to drive across, through, or over. Carmageddon 
 II isn't the most ambitious game you'll ever play, but chances are it'll be one of the more enjoyable 
 games you've tried lately.    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (19 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: simondengrymme
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 13, 2009 6:39 am PT
Review:  Carmageddon 2 Carpocalypse Now 
  
  Is a game based mostly on crushing your opponents with your car. Your playing as Max Damage, a guy 
 with good driving skills and a little twisted mind or more than just LITTLE* However you play in 
 many diffrent places = City, Forest, Icey mountains, etc. The game is very fun and addicting, you 
 will most likely spend your time collecting (CREDITS) Used as money to buy other cars that you 
 have competed with. The cars are all fun in there own way and will keep you going on for hours. 
 This is one of history, s most succesfull racing games =) . There isnt much more to say about carmageddon 
 really its basically all about smashing crashing and slaughtering (yes there are gore) But its 
 also has a taste of free roam to it, 
  although you have a timer that can be turned of by cheats. So this is it, the only way for me to 
 explain it more is simply by downloading the demo and check it out. 
  
  I gave this game 10 but thanks to the sound thats repeditive 5-
  
  Thanks for reading my review 
 =) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rccars411
Rating: 1.5
Date: Apr 21, 2008 2:44 pm PT
Review:  The carmageddon series seems to have some cult like following, and its easily understandable soon 
 as you pick up a copy of the first one. But the series severely drops downhill right after the 
 first game. 
  
  The troubles in this game begins with compatibility: USB and operating systems. Without a good 
 hunt on google, this game will be rendered useless on any xp/vista machine. You'll need a patch 
 and a crack (yes a crack) to get this to function... along with a glide wrapper. This part ends 
 with a huge headache (just with the fine tuning and what not) .
  
  Moving onto getting into the game. Setting up your "generic" controllers can tend to be very frustrating. 
 If you can not get the game to acknowledge any inputs from your controller, stick to the keyboard 
 controls.
  
  Gameplay: This is what instantaneously killed any sorts of possibilities for fun. It feels like 
 you are driving a tank! Getting up to speed isn't exactly the issue, but when you approach a turn, 
 it takes forever to move the car through the turns, the cars want to push like crazy. it doesn't 
 matter if you increase the steering sensitivity, no matter what you do, you have to almost crawl 
 to steer. If you have played carma 1, imagine turning at a rate of 50% from that game.
  
  If you manage to jump your car, or get rear ended to the point that the rear tires are lifted off 
 the ground, it takes forever for the car to land... if you break traction, it takes absolutely 
 forever to regain control.
  
  If you can get past these HUGE road blocks, the graphics and music are great. But, without a good 
 gameplay (driving ability) in the game, it really renders this game best into the garbage. How 
 they consider this game complete is beyond me. Carmageddon TDR isn't any better, in fact it is 
 worse than this game! There is a reason why CARMA 4 has never been consistant! The series is on 
 a downhill slope and its not getting better! They should have stopped with carma 1. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gregox
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 27, 2007 9:58 am PT
Review:  This is Carmageddon 2. The best carmaggedon game in the series hands-down. This game is pure destruction. 
 Are you bored of the old fashion games where nothing happens?, Do you want to destroy something 
 or someone?, Yes?. So this is the perfect game to do it. Carmageddon 2 have a lot of mortal cars 
 that can be unlocked in the "season", the player starts as Max with a red car and very cool style, 
 in my opinion this is one of the best cars that the game have to offer. You have 12-15 levels with 
 3 races combined and one special mission, to go through the next levels you should finish the races, 
 that only can be finished by destroying your opponents cars, and finish the special missions that 
 are usually variable and depend on which level you are.
  On the race: you have a lot of boxes, that boxes will help to improve you car during the race, 
 there are 3-5 kinds of boxes, different boxes will give different abilities. The objective of the 
 game is only to destroy your opponents cars and for that you should hit them. Almost all the cars 
 have high speed impact, of course, the big cars, like vans or bulldozers, cant reach a high level 
 of speed but they are almost indestructible... for that they are pretty cool to drive.
  
  The only thing that is a little disappointing is the no-existence of Menu, I mean the existence 
 of various modes of game like the free drive or survival that could be very cool to improve even 
 more the game.
  8 is a good score, Carmageddon 2 is the best, because i already played 1 and 3 and didnt like 
 them. To them maybe I would give 6.5 and 5, respectively. Maybe I can do a review of this two games.
 
  All in all Carmageddon 2 is destructive and very good game, despite the year that was released 
 that was in 1998, that really doesnt matter because the games are in their essence and not on 
 their year.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: NitroDriven
Rating: 8.8
Date: May 8, 2007 3:37 pm PT
Review:  Carmageddon may not be a game that looks as if a lot of attention was payed to it, but if there's 
 one thing that sets this one above all other car games is its super-high level of FUN FUN FUN!!! 
 There is a countless amount of power-ups you can get, from ones that completely trash your cars 
 body work, to ones that make you invulnerable, and even ones that make the pedestrians start dancing 
 in their place! This level of humor and fun is very rare these days, and often missed by some reviewers. 
 I also liked the cars. There are airplanes which can open up 400 MPH without breaking a sweat, 
 pimped out cars that beat music to your speed, super-fast but very fragile cars, hyper-durable 
 but slow cars and even massive construction vehicles which can smash the competition in a matter 
 of seconds. Every vehicle has its own set of strengths and weaknesses. The damage effects are awesome. 
 The cars get huge dents, scratches all in the right places and differently every single time, and 
 pieces even fly off, like the hoods, bumpers, fenders, doors and everything else, but what impressed 
 me the most is that if you hit a wall hard enough, you can completely bend or even cut your car 
 in half. I've yet to see this level of damage effects. A massive amount of variety give this game 
 the ability to entertain for a long time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Maester-Slayer
Rating: 9.8
Date: Apr 20, 2007 8:37 am PT
Review:  A long time ago, soem time in 1997 or 1998, i got a demo disk. This disk had on it, Carmageddon 
 2.
  
  SO I played it, it had the Max's home level, with the junkyard and the city, pretty much as it 
 is in the real game. But instead of pedestrians, it had Zombies.
  
  Took me a very long time, like till 1999 before I bought this game, but in that time I just kept 
 replayign that demo over and over, it was so much fun.
  
  Then I got the game, and I was suprised to see that I now kill real people.
  
  I was a lil 
 boy back then, and for some reason had a sick pleasure of looking up the 3D model'ed skirts of 
 the chicks, just before I ran em over. Ok so I was a disturbed child. Maybe that's why I so loved 
 this game.
  
  So lets get to it.
  
  My system was a 200 mhz ATI Xpert@play 4 meg card. The game ran fairly smooth most of the time 
 (on smooth as my standards were back then) with plenty of slowdowns that I never paid attention 
 too back then.
  
  This game is so much fun its amazing, and kinda sad in a way. Often my parents would come into 
 my room and wonder why there was screaming coming out of my room, and a lot of splatter and explosion 
 sounds. When you parents are concerned, you know its a good game.
  
  So graphics, top notch for the time, at the time other games such as Viper Racer existed, so ill 
 compare Carmegeddon to that as graphics, Viper racer basically let your car just fold up and turn 
 into any shape at all. Carmageddon however, was completely realistic as to damage. Door hinges 
 etc. If your door swung open while you were turning, it actually thru your car off balance.
  
  Gravity was a bit slim in the game, but, the game itself could end so fast, that maybe the 
 slow gravity was a good thing after all.
  
  The sounds repeat a lot, but you won't notice, you will be having so much fun killing everything. 
 on the desert levels, there is a very anouying loud whistle, this made me liek to avoid the desert 
 levels.
  
  Controls:
  For some of the cars, controls were normal, but if you say got into Magnum Magnisums big red semi, 
 if you used keyboard, as im sure many did back then, at full turn radius, it wouldn't actually 
 turn anymore, it turned sharped if you had it just slightly off max turn. This is where you needed 
 a joy stick or steering wheel.
  
  It seems some features were never acutally included in the final release, from reading the configuration 
 files, it seems this game was meant to have stealable cars.
  
  Thats the other thing, if you have notepad, you can edit this game. Change Max's car to 999 weight, 
 and softtnes to 0. and you can have some fun being industructable an dplowing thru everything in 
 your path.
  
  This game also has some replay value, as you can try and beat it 3 different ways.
  
  You can 
 kill all opponents, which Im sure is everyones favorite thing to do.
  
  You can kill all pedestrians, which, is time consuming, but the points you get is worth it. use 
 the Electro bastard ray to get pedestrians in odd places.
  
  or you can actually do the race (god forbid that) .
  
  If you can find a copy of this game, 
 I highly recommend it, it isn't extremely compatibile with XP, but there are work arounds, just 
 search online, people have made programs to fix it, Glide Wrapper for example.
  
  Definitly get this game, if you don't mind sensless violence, you will really enjoy it, and most 
 matches don't take long if your just in it for the killing, so its a good play when bored game, 
 or play when mad game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: woef
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 6, 2006 6:56 am PT
Review:  CA2 is a great game, due to the good graphics and the fun maps and vehicles.
  
  Gameplay:
  +Offers a wide variety of levels, cars and powerups
  +Replayability
  +Unlocks
 
  -Some crashes, when playing
  
  Graphics:
  +Looks good
  +Runs good
  -Some crashes
  
  Sounds:
  +/-Decent sounds
  -No music
  
  Value:
  +Wide variety between maps, cars 
 and powerups
  +Replayablitly
  +Some smart enemies
  
  Tilt:
  +Great game, thanks to the great presentation
  +Budget priced
  +Easy controls
  +/-No real 
 story, but who cares
  
  If you are looking for a budget priced racing game, this is your game.
  Also if you like destroying 
 cars and kill people. hehehehehehehehehehehhehehehe
  Adios and bye 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dinghy_Dog
Rating: 8.7
Date: Oct 1, 2006 1:36 pm PT
Review:  :Good Idea:
  &middot; Running over pedestrians in Carmageddon was always fun, and twice as fun here since you 
 can drag them with your car now, but I think the real treat in Carmageddon's sequel is running 
 over dogs, penguins, and other random animals. Destroying a life, one animal at a time.
  &middot; The damaged car parts in the game are a lot better than the original. Instead of a 3D mold 
 being meshed together, now you get to see parts of your racer torn off and thrown into the streets. 
 Bumpers hanging on with a piece of tin and detach and launch at a pedestrian for brutal carnage!
 
  &middot; Some of the best map designs I've ever seen. One of the maps is actually a circus/theme 
 park, where you get to do tricks in your car and run over clowns. Joy!
  
  :Bad Idea:
  &middot; The pedestrians look like giant blocks. That's the downfall of this game is the character 
 models. They look so freakin' ugly.
  &middot; Even though the maps are well designed, some of them are just duplicates. Not that attractive 
 to someone like me.
  &middot; The game is a bit easier than the original. Racing even isn't required.
  
  :Overall:
 
  &middot; if you're looking for an old school blast of excitement, this game will explore your 
 imagination and damage it with it's cruel, sick humor. Running over people can be fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ro_bb_ie
Rating: 8.2
Date: Sep 23, 2006 2:31 am PT
Review:  First the music is one of the most intricateing ones i have ever come across. Not the heavy metal 
 bashing or the crunk type. But quite unique for a game like this. Also the vehicles to be driven 
 in this never ending world juz ROCKS!!! whr do ya get to drive a 747 jumbo on the road killing 
 &amp; taking destruction &amp; mayhem alongwith or a truck loaded with spikes to incinerate any 
 harmless pedestrians on the way. The graphics aint that good but does the job but the character 
 modelling should have been done more nicely though. No one likes boxed human characters!! Also 
 the damage system is quite good. The vehicles juz comes apart piece by piece. The repair system 
 is unique too but i found the powerups most hilarious. The AI could have been more aggressive but 
 all they are bent upon is following you &amp; destroying you. Competition among them is almost 
 null. Also they dont race at all. You juz cant have fun when there are 6 racers out thr juz bent 
 on destroying you. Gimme a break!!! The environments are modelled quite artistically. All in all 
 , a quite funny &amp; intresting game whose gameplay makes you want it to play again &amp; again. 
 Not to mention the most inventive music ever to heard on a game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hind9999
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 17, 2006 4:47 am PT
Review:  this is one of the worlds best car game i think for me is it, it is so funny and there are lot 
 of cars and maps and good graphic i love the game i shall buy it when i got some money :D i love 
 the demo the car is not so good i think but the truck is. i love the cars in the game they are 
 soo **** cool and fast i just love this game it like when i play it i feel like a fucking terrorist 
 man it's awesome it's worth to buy real cool  everything in that 
 game is so cool man cya around motherfucker's :P naah just kiddin' 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wolfcub1111
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 13, 2006 6:52 pm PT
Review:  Oh how should I say this. Carmageddon 2 Carpocalypse Now, hmm this is hard to explain. Well I will 
 anyway.
  
  This game is about Total Carnage!!! You have to destroy cars, run over pedestrians or animals (How 
 many games let you do that :) and if you want to go through the check points (How boring racing?) . The 
 game is just a good old fashioned gore fest. I mean if you love racing games and the gore in fps 
 games than this game takes the cake. It doesn't have the greatest graphics or sound but it is definitely 
 a good game considering that it is pretty old. All in all a great game, an instant classic. If you 
 already own this game NEVER I mean NEVER sell it this game takes the cake!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ellebowski
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 27, 2006 3:07 am PT
Review:  Still reigns supreme as far as car-demolition-gorefest-stunt games are concerned. After not playing 
 this game for around a year due to a loss of the game disc, I found myself instantly drawn back 
 in. Replayability and open-ended gameplay make this a must-have for... well... anyone, and everyone. 
 Even though today it's all about soft shadows and pixel shaders this game still looks damn good. 
 Controls are excellent, especially the acrcade physics... they add a real punch of spice to the 
 gameplay. One of my personal favorites as far as features are concerned is the replay/record feature. 
 Being able to watch all of my best crashes and kills whenever i want is a pure joy, even without 
 sound and 3D acceleration. Carmageddon II will always hold a high place on my game rack, Unmatched, 
 Unsurpassed, and Unbeatable.
  
  \m/ 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mad_Game_hi5
Rating: 8.1
Date: Apr 11, 2006 10:11 pm PT
Review:  Carmageddon 2 is one of the most ineresting game I've ever played. You have to destroy your oponents 
 cars, colect powerups, smash zombies to get credits to buy anew car, recovery, repair .... Well 
 the graphics aren't to good. They could use some more work. The blood looks bad. The explotions 
 pretty good. Cars well good. The cars have spikes, drills, knives.... I like this game it is very 
 fun. Sounds pretty bad. The explotions not very good, zombie shriek awuful. Not too good sounds 
 for this game. So the gameplay is cool. Can do alot of stunts because the cars have speed!!!
  It is also cool that you have some powerups that modify the game like pinball mode thats fun because 
 when you hit something you bounce the other cars and zombies do that too. It's fun smashing with 
 things high in the air but too much bouncing and KABOOOM. Well it is a good game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: darkplayer
Rating: 8.4
Date: Mar 3, 2006 3:48 pm PT
Review:  Carmageddon 2 much like its predecessor delivers a brutal yet humorous experience while playing. 
 In Carmageddon 2 is basically a Race/Destruction Derby with innocent bystanders. You start a race 
 and then you have to eliminate all your enemies by wrecking their cars. There are people walking 
 around everywhere however and you can not only hit the people but you can squish them against your 
 windshield. Although this might seem gruesome to dismember innocent people, the way the game presents 
 it and the way its done is simply humorous. 
  
  GAMEPLAY
  
  The gameplay is very entertaining its fun to smash things and destroy them and there are a number 
 of powerups you can gain, such as dropping mines, jumping up, lunar gravity, Jupiters gravity, 
 etc. The number of powerups is vast and when you use them its entertaining to see the effects they 
 have. Driving around and hitting your opponents with the powerups just adds to the humor and entertainment. 
 The levels are quite big and there is plenty to explore. You can also buy new cars, or upgrade 
 your car by finding hidden upgrades. Also the game is mostly destruction derby and driving around 
 and smashing things even though you can race to the finish line you will find yourself just smashing 
 into your opponents, there are also stunt levels in which you have to perform a task or a jump, 
 these levels also proved to be fun to accomplish, for example in one stunt level you have to jump 
 into a Airport Communication Tower of a ramp. 
  
  GRAPHICS
  
  Although outdated by todays standards, Carmageddon 2 had pretty good graphics in the day, the 
 car models are quite detailed and easily recognizable, and they also have damage models. The innocent 
 bystanders are also reasonably detailed and there are a number of different kinds of people walking 
 around, even animals. And the levels themselves are nicely done.
  
  SOUND
  
  The game has great sound effects, which range from explosions to dogs barking. The music is also 
 quite good.
  
  VALUE
  
  Carmageddon 2, will keep you playing for hours, even after you have finished the game completely 
 you will find yourself coming back to it for its humor and fun and addicting gameplay. Carmageddon 
 2 also features multiplayer up to 8 players, which only adds to its already great replay value. 
 Simply said this game is something different that is widely addictive. 
  
  CONCLUSION
  
  Overall Carmageddon 2 is a great game that is extremely fun to play and it keeps you coming 
 back for more. Carmageddon 2 has plenty to do and see and I recommend this game for anyone who 
 is over 17 as it is rated M and for a good reason. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: psplord980
Rating: 7.8
Date: Feb 22, 2006 3:24 pm PT
Review:  Grade
  C+ (7.8)
  
  Good
  A good racing game with plenty of violence
  Plenty of good fun arena's
  If racing get's dull go on a rampage and kill everyone! lol
  Bonus 
 stages are fun to earn and play
  Kill animals, humans, aliens, and movie stars
  
  Bad
  Camera angle can be horrible sometimes
  Occasional Gltiches ( Car be fused the the wall....)
 
  
  Closing Comments: There's not much i can say about this game... It's a really good racing game.. Competition, Beautiful 
 enviroments, and blood... what more can a gamer ask for? Plenty of Secrets. And rampaging around 
 killing people is without a doubt the best part.... lol Kling animals and aleins can alos be very 
 satisfying. If you want to burn your time with a good racing game get this.... . . . . . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: absintheguy818
Rating: 8.8
Date: Dec 4, 2005 2:28 pm PT
Review:  Only way this is better then part 3 is way more blood and guts, but still just as fun and addictive, 
 2 and 3 need to be bought together , this is one of those games after you beat it youll still want 
 to play, thats what makes all the carmageddon games one of my all time favriots, the cheat coses 
 are fun, and can be uses anywhere to help a tad to make u god. buy this game and youll be glad 
 you did. Part 3 has more of a adventure and story and part 2 has more of a single game race mode, 
 thats why you should get both part 2 and 3. cant wait for part 4, its been roumored for about a 
 year, but not expected anytime soon. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DJ_Lae
Rating: 8.2
Date: May 23, 2005 11:05 pm PT
Review:  Carmageddon 2, like its predecessor, doesn't bother disguising its premise. Through the entirety 
 of the game you get to take place in a number of races where the three methods of winning involve 
 either a) being first around the designated course b) destroying all the opposing cars or c) killing 
 every last pedestrian. Given that the laid out course is often difficult to follow and there are 
 often in excess of a thousand pedestrians in a level, the most common way you'll finish levels 
 involves pounding the opposition into accordions. Of course, you can complete that goal any way 
 you want. If you decide to take a break and run over pedestrians, that's fine. If you want to push 
 your opponents off a cliff and then dive down on top of them, that's fine too. Carmageddon doesn't 
 expect you to finish things all that quickly, which is why your game time is so easy to increment 
 - given that hitting pedestrians is so easy and gives you plenty of additional time, the chance 
 of actually running out of time is pretty slim.
  
  Your opposition ranges from slightly modified production cars to the flat-out bizarre, from a Herbie-style 
 bug with massive monster truck tires to a legimite combine and even a massive earth mover that 
 is at least 30 times bigger than anything else. Defeating them in a course lets you acquire their 
 vehicle, and by the end of the game you'll have a huge assortment of wacky vehicles to choose from, 
 even if many of them are too weak to use in practice. Still, the variety is nice and it's amusing 
 even driving lightweight cars around, as they tend to lose control when hitting a pedestrian.
 
  
  Speaking of control, Carmageddon has pretty exaggerated physics and gravity often feels like you're 
 on the moon. You can get air off almost any jump with minimal effort and it's difficult to turn 
 without sliding - then again, it doesn't hurt the game any as you'll rarely be heading in a specific 
 direction. Power ups are scattered all over the levels and range from ones that stock up (like 
 power boosts, kangaroo jumps, pedestrian zappers) to ones that run on a timer. Some of them bestow 
 your car with abilities like a huge spiked tail or hot rod handling. Others affect the world gravity, 
 and yet others alter the pedestrians, either by enlarging their heads or making them dance or have 
 to pee. All are bizarre and amusing in that sick and twisted world that Carmageddon operates in.
 
  
  The crashes are quite satisfying. The sound of wrenching metal is quite pronounced and the sparks 
 flying from the twisted body of your opponents car scraping along the pavement as you push it towards 
 a concrete block at high speed just makes it even more amusing. Pedestrians themselves will attempt 
 to run away somewhat, but some just accept their fate and literally bend over to take it. Hitting 
 pedestrians results in a deightfully squishy noise and more often than not they'll sail away from 
 your car in pieces. You get bonus points for elaborate methods of taking them out, so sliding sideways 
 into pedestrians or crushing them from above will net you bigger returns. The existence of a replay 
 feature lets you watch the bloodiest moments again and again, especially if you choose to save 
 a portion of the replay as a video file.
  
  Ultimately there isn't much of a point to Carmageddon other than smashing cars and killing pedestrians. 
 However, it's executed so well that it's hard not to derive a disturbing amount of pleasure from 
 the phrase PILEDRIVER BONUS! slapped across your screen when you crush a little polygonal person 
 against a wall. Ultimately that will probably be the deciding factor in your enjoyment of the game 
 - if you ahbor violence, Carmageddon will just disgust you. However, if you find over-the-top mayhem 
 obscenely amusing, then Carmageddon is absolutely perfect for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jmastaj
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jan 14, 2005 12:30 am PT
Review:  When i first got this game i got it in a pack of 3 games. At first I didnt even think about playing 
 this game but after a week i decided to try it out. The minute i turned it on i was shocked how 
 good it was. The yelling of people when you hit them and then the limbs flying everywhere. Sure 
 the graphics arent great compared to the other ones right now but when this game was released the 
 graphics were great. The value is excellent in this game. I got it in a pack of 3 for around 20.00 
 dollars. I reccomend this game to anyone that likes racing and destruction. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FlameKiller316
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 10, 2004 1:27 am PT
Review:  This is a really good game. This is like a ''Destrution Derby'' ripoff but still really good. If 
 u like running over people and crashing into cars to win a race, then you will luv this game! The 
 Graphics -- oh man! I was so dissapointed! The graphics could be a lot better!!! The graphics look 
 like PS1 graphics, which shouldn't be right. The Sound -- Pretty good. Lots of screaming when you 
 run over people, lots of crashing sounds when you ram the cars and lots of explosion sounds when 
 you blow a car. The music is really good too. The Gameplay -- Really Good! 1. Pick a car. 2. Start 
 racing. 3. Crash into cars to win a race! Really fun! Lots of explosions and people running around. 
 I would have probably gave this a game a 9 or higher but the graphics really let me down. The goods 
 things I like about this game -- The sounds and the gameplay. The bad things -- GRAPHICS! This game 
 is highly addicive and u might spend hours on it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JML897
Rating: 7.8
Date: Sep 10, 2004 1:46 am PT
Review:  The Carmageddon series could be looked at as the controversy-starter before GTA3. 
  
  In Carmageddon 2, there are 3 "races" you can pick from at a given time. Once those are cleared, 
 you unlock a "final" race for that area. After you beat that, you move on to the next set of tracks, 
 and pretty much do that for the whole game, which is a drawback.
  
  The reason I put "races" in quotation marks is because you really don't have to race in most of 
 them. In fact, if all you want to do is race, do not get this game. It's obvious that the game 
 is centered around destroying your opponents, and it's so much more fun to do than just going through 
 laps. But still, if GTA makes you even somewhat squirmish, do not get this game; you get rewarded 
 for running over and killing people, etc.
  
  The graphics in this game definitely aren't groundbreaking - you won't find awesome lighting techniques 
 or bump-mapping here. I guess that could be a good thing for some people, since that means it can 
 run on low-end computers. 
  
  This game won't win any game of the year awards. But if you're looking for a game that gives you 
 a bunch of enjoyment, get this. Check your bargain bin at a local store.... if you can get this 
 for $10 or less, which shouldn't be a problem, I highly recommend it. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
