-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Carnivores: Cityscape
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/action/carnivorescityscape/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Apr  9, 2002
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 5.2
Critic Score: 5.6, 9 Review (s)
User Score: 6.7, 63 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Infogrames
Developer: Sunstorm Int.
Genre: Sci-Fi First-Person...
Date:     Mar 25, 2002
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
The combat is simply not very engaging, and since the combat is all there is, that's a real problem. 
 

  Since the "hunting dinosaurs" genre isn't an overcrowded one, the original Carnivores at least 
 had a high novelty factor. For Carnivores: Cityscape, the fourth installment in the budget-priced 
 series, Deer Hunter developer Sunstorm Interactive took over for Action Forms, the company that 
 made the first three Carnivores games, and abandoned the hunting game structure of the series. 
 Instead, Cityscape is a straightforward run-and-gun shooter. In this new format, the good will 
 Carnivores received for being a clever twist on traditional hunting simulations is no longer applicable. 
 What's left is a thoroughly second-rate action game.           Some parts of Carnivores: Cityscape 
 look quite good.    

  Cityscape is essentially a value-priced version of Aliens Versus Predator. However, in the budget 
 tradition of feature removal, it only has two playable species. Each of the game's 20 levels can 
 be completed as either a human or a dinosaur. Rather than having unique levels for the two campaigns, 
 the levels generally remain the same with the mission goals inverted for the different species. 
 For instance, if you have to rescue two scientists as a human, you'll have to eat two scientists 
 as a dinosaur.   

  Twenty levels may sound like a lot, but many of them are pretty tiny -- a few involve little more 
 than getting from one side of a room to another. In fact, the game's set of 20 levels is really 
 five environments broken up into four small sections each, and the game is artificially lengthened 
 by the fact that you can only save at the end of each section.   

  As a human, you'll fight through levels populated with merely five different types of dinosaurs. 
 Once they see you, the dinosaurs run straight at you, which is probably realistic, but doesn't 
 make for great gameplay. As the Serious Sam games proved, simple enemy behaviors can still provide 
 an interesting tactical challenge provided there are several different behaviors occurring simultaneously 
 across a range of opponents. Cityscape's enemies all exhibit exactly the same attack pattern. As 
 a result, combat is simply not very engaging. Since the combat is all there is, that's a real problem. 
   

  The weapon selection is also threadbare. There are six weapons available in the game, from which 
 you choose two to take on each mission (along with a default pistol) . This lack of weapon variety 
 further reduces the number of tactical choices you have to make in combat.   

  Things aren't any better as a dinosaur. Instead of five types of enemies, you're pitted against 
 the same human opponent with a few different weapon configurations. Instead of five types of weapons, 
 you have one -- your claws. Technically, you have a jump attack as well. So, if you're in a generous 
 mood, you can call it two weapons. And unlike the Alien in the Aliens Versus Predator series, the 
 dinosaur has no unusual and game-changing wall-climbing mechanic to master. It's essentially a 
 human that has to punch enemies to death.   

  The developers licensed the graphics engine used in Serious Sam, and the visuals are sporadically 
 excellent. Graphically, the high point is a set of missions that takes place in a futuristic city 
 at twilight. Though for every striking setting, there are two that appear to be big cubes with 
 a few pipes running across the ceilings.   

  A multiplayer deathmatch mode is included, along with a mode that permits up to eight people to 
 play cooperatively through the single-player missions. This would be a pleasant surprise if anything 
 about the gameplay were interesting enough to warrant assembling eight people to tackle it.    
        Playing as a dinosaur gets old quick.    

  Just so there's some historical record of it, there are actually two good things about Carnivores: 
 Cityscape. The first is a mission that takes place on a darkened subway train. Each time the train 
 passes through a lighted area of the track, the ambient light from outside briefly illuminates 
 the interior. The confined space combined with the fitful lighting creates some real tension. The 
 second good thing is the music, which is surprisingly well done.   

  Other than those two things, though, Cityscape is a total wash. It may be half the price of Aliens 
 Versus Predator 2, but -- in an admittedly unscientific measurement -- Aliens Versus Predator 2 is 
 10 times better. And that leads to the question you have to ask yourself with a lot of budget titles: 
 Is a mediocre game for $20 really a better deal than a good game for $40?     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (4 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Xhodo
Rating: 4.8
Date: Aug 10, 2006 5:40 pm PT
Review:  This game is not at ALL worth the time you could be playing other games such as Quake or Counter-Strike, 
 but if you honestly dont want those, then waste your money on this, the game, if you play both 
 campaigns is probably about 5-12 hours. Honestly not worth it, the games storyline could be much 
 better, im sure they could have improved the graphics a bit, and the dinosaurs, huh, they suck 
 and are very uninteliggent* :P, you can pretty much stick your gun in their butt and they wont 
 do a thing, pretty much they have to see you if they're gonna attack. Anyways take my advice, DO 
 NOT get this, its a waste of money, a waste of time, and just not worth it.
  
  
  P. S oh yeah no one ever plays multiplayer either
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: sharkluver3152
Rating: 6.2
Date: Jan 19, 2006 1:51 pm PT
Review:  Carnivores: Cityscape is an ok game. In the game you can choose to eather be a dinosaur or an agent. 
 As a dinosaur, your only objective in the whole campagin is kill all the humans on the map. You 
 only have 2 attacks which is disapointing, they are scratch, and lunge. When a human dies you can 
 eat them for health ( it looks stupid wen ur a Gigantosaurus and you only take one little bite 
 out of a person) . As an agent, through the whole game you have to escort hostages, run from one 
 side of a map to another or kill all the dinosaurs off the map. You can only take 2 weapons (and 
 your unlimited ammo pistol) into each level. Graphic aren't that great, there is also a glitch 
 that when you're a dinosaur and you're trying to kill someone and they run backwards, it looks 
 like they are gliding. Sound is good, especially when a grenade explodes, it sounds good. Today 
 there are no multiplayer servers so i can't tell what is better, single or multiplayer. I don't 
 recomend you buy this game unless you are a HUGE dinosaur fans and don't care bout graphics. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bond007dude
Rating: 7.9
Date: Dec 30, 2005 4:16 pm PT
Review:  Story: Got this game for 5 bucks at Best Buy.
  
  Gameplay: As a human, you start out with 3 weapons, a pistol, and the others you get to chose. 
 The sad part is there are only 7 weapons. What they have is at least good.
  The Bad: In the first level, they will try to tell you to walk instead of run. This is simply an 
 attempt to hide the fact that most of the dinos top speed is slower than the humans top speed. 
 This makes the game tremendously easy and it becomes boring. The dinos attack you the same way, 
 all you have to do is hold 'S', and blast away at the trigger, which I might add that there is 
 no damage weapoints (headshots are the same as bodyshots.) Ignoring this, the game has an impressive 
 amount of gore for its time and occasionally will scary the living .... out of you. 
  
  The game has many glitches from a gameplay standpoint, as well as many large holes in the storyline. 
 For example, in this one level, Norton's Nightmare, for the first tries it seems friggishly hard. 
 Then you discover if you jump on a certain block, the terrible AI will try and slash you, but to 
 no avail. Then they will fall off the platform, thus commiting suicide. Stuff like this happens 
 all the time in Carnivores Cityscape.
  
  As a dino, the first time around, the game is near impossible. But after you beat it, for some 
 strange reason it doesn't seem to be as hard as it was. But you'll still use strategy and your 
 cunning instict. But sometimes the humans will get boring because they all look the same.
  
  Overall, this game could have been a HALO. But the lack of assortment of weapons, the lack 
 of differnet dinos, and the terrible AI and lack of location damage (and lack of variable dino 
 death animations) bring this game down.
  
  Graphics-Very good for its time, if I'm not mistaken. If my memory serves me well, mostly better 
 than most videogame graphics. The level design is pleasing to the eye, for the most part.
  
  Sound-Although repetive, the dino sounds will usually scare the .... out of you. The weapons 
 sound good, the enviros sound good, even the occasional music sounds good! No reason not to give 
 it a 10.
  
  Value-Although I was 12 when I first played the game, an adult might get a little scare from it. 
 If you are hardcore, you might want to get this game to see what NOT to do when making a game. 
 If you're a game designer you might want it to see what you SHOULD do when creating one. Overall, 
 worth the $5 i paid and didn't try the multiplayer, although I'm guessing it might be good. Plus 
 there are a few secrets in the game I am not telling you about. (hint: Disused subway terminal 
 in City.)
  
  Tilt-I thorougly enjoyed this game, to be honest the first level of Perfect Dark reminded me of 
 it. But then again I was 12...
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: j-miller
Rating: 4.6
Date: Jan 3, 2005 4:41 am PT
Review:  People love dinosaurs because when you go to a museum they're pretty much the only awinspiring 
 thing you can look at. Heck they're about as fun as playing a low budget computer game you normally 
 buy at Wal Mart. Except in games they use pixels and digital wiring to build their dinos. However 
 if you look deep into Carnivores: Cityscape despite it's swell graphics engine you'll find that 
 this game is better off in a museum than on store selves.
  
  Gameplay: Stupid control is slow and pain staking and boring to say the least.
  Score: 2 out 
 of 10
  
  Graphics: Good I guess, probably the only good thing about this game.
  Score: 8 out of 10
  
  Sound: Poor sound effects is another good (and bad) thing why this game 
 so boring.
  Score: 5 out of 10
  
  Value: Low budget games have always caused me nothing but sorrow so I guess I just threw it away.
 
  Score: 5 out of 10
  
  Reviewer's Tilt: Even Robert Bakker and Phil Currie two of my most favorite paleontologist will 
 gag at the boring gameplay and the crappy sound effects.
  Score: 5 out of 10
  
  Overall Score: 4.6
  
  THE PROS: Cool graphics and that's pretty much it.
  
  THE DOWNFALLS: 
 Boring levels, stupid gameplay, annoying missions, playing as a dinosaur has never been so cheap.
 
  
  The Word: Unless if you're a dinosaur lover, don't buy this game.
  
  
  
  
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
