-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Carnivores
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/action/carnivores/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Jan 25, 1999
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7.1
Critic Score: 6.4, 9 Review (s)
User Score: 7.8, 174 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: WizardWorks
Developer: Action Forms
Genre: Fantasy First-Person...
Date:     Nov 30, 1998

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Not only is it a solid hunting simulation, but it features first-rate graphics and sound. 

 Any way you look at it, a dinosaur hunting game is a brilliant idea: It's all the action, tactics, 
 and strategy of a true hunting simulation, with none of the guilt. Turns out, Carnivores is even 
 more than that, more than enough to be tantalizing yet not quite complete to be entirely satisfying. 
 Still, not only is it a solid hunting simulation, but it features first-rate graphics and sound 
 and a fully customizable challenge that'll test the mettle of both would-be hunters and action 
 gamers alike, even as it leaves both categories wishing there were more to the game.  

 There's a loose plot to justify why it is that you're hunting dinosaurs with high-powered weapons, 
 but when you get right down to it, Carnivores is a simulation not unlike Deer Hunter or anything 
 in its class. You grab yourself a gun, designate a species of dinosaur as your target, pick a place 
 to hunt, and get to work. The dinosaurs can see, smell, and hear to varying extent, so you'll need 
 to take heed of wind direction, keep quiet, sit still, and shoot straight if you hope to bring 
 one home. Options like cover scent and camouflage can make life easier, but using these deducts 
 points from your total. In a humane touch, however, using tranquilizer ammunition actually increases 
 your score, although tranquilized dinos won't be on display in the keen 3D trophy room. You need 
 those points to advance in rank, so that you can hunt bigger and badder dinosaurs in more challenging 
 areas.  

 Chances are, these are going to be some of the best-looking 3D dinosaurs you've ever seen, and the 
 best that you'll see for a while. They're big, and they look real. They go plodding about, over 
 hills and around obstacles, stopping to graze if they like to eat plants or charging and leaping 
 straight for your throat if they prefer meat. Shooting down the dinosaurs isn't easy and may be 
 especially difficult against certain types that are either vulnerable only in specific regions 
 or highly aggressive. For instance, you'll need to do better than a head shot to bring down a triceratops; 
 you'll need to shoot him in the eye, the throat, or the back of the neck if you intend for him 
 to fall. Meanwhile, the velociraptor demands lightning-fast reflexes and offers no second chances. 
 If you manage to kill a target, it'll topple over dramatically, although perhaps not quite as dramatically 
 as you might like. Shoot a dino with a tranquilizer round instead, and you can see and hear it 
 breathing heavily as it lies paralyzed. There's quite a bit to shoot at: There are seven varieties 
 of dinosaurs to hunt, from the meek parasaurolophus with its telltale head crest, to the small 
 but ferocious velociraptor, to the enormous, nigh invincible tyrannosaurus rex.  

 You'll get to track these through half a dozen different environments, which look surprisingly authentic. 
 They're mostly plains, hills, and jungles, although you also get coastal, swamp, and volcanic regions 
 that look especially good. Everything warps underwater, and a mist hangs in the air as you trudge 
 through the swamp, and special effects like these help make Carnivores look not just good, but 
 great. It doesn't look perfect, though. Your field of vision isn't very far, and fleeing dinosaurs 
 will vanish into the horizon long before they should. There's a clever use of atmospheric fog to 
 help hide the pop-up, but it won't fool you for long. Meanwhile, you'll spot the occasional graphical 
 glitch when a dinosaur's shadow clips through a hill, but it's nothing serious. The dinosaurs themselves 
 will get stuck on objects once in a while, but most of the time they're every bit as smart or as 
 stupid as you'd like to believe they were back then. There's no music in Carnivores, a decision 
 presumably made in the interest of realism, but you get plenty of well-suited ambient sound effects 
 to keep your ears busy. Beyond that, the dinosaurs all sound different, and although no one can 
 be sure just what they sounded like, you'll find that their calls are both plausible and appropriate. 
 At the same time, the three guns with which you'll shoot them sound as good as the best that first-person 
 shooters have to offer.  

 Those guns, including a high-powered shotgun, a hi-tech crossbow, and a sniper rifle, carry varying 
 amounts of ammunition and are ideal for specific situations. The shotgun's your best bet against 
 small, aggressive dinosaurs, the sniper rifle's perfect for precision shooting from long range, 
 and the X-bow is virtually silent but slow to reload, making it your best bet for stealthy kills. 
 The weapons all look great, and they're different and effective. You'll wish, however, that there 
 were more, and just as well wish you had even more to shoot at and more regions to explore. That's 
 really the only shortcoming of Carnivores. Although it forces you to earn a certain number of points 
 before you can use the sniper rifle or hunt the more advanced dinosaur species, that just seems 
 like an artificial constraint to camouflage the game's slim content. And that'll invariably disappoint 
 you a little, since you'll more than likely enjoy what Carnivores has to offer.    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (7 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: GhostDEFENDER
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 19, 2007 7:03 pm PT
Review:  I started playing it after I got it in an atari package of some sort. Of corse, I was eaten by 
 a spinesaurus as soon as I booted it up. It has a 15 minute learing curb to it, I would say. It's 
 fun, but It's really kind of empty, though. It gets boring after your first T-Rex kill. It's pretty 
 easy just to sidestep and shoot it in the eye with a pistol. Boom. Just did the harest thing. So 
 to sum it up, it's a unique game, that will soon be a classic, but once you reach about 550 points, 
 it just, well, dies. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: liukang666
Rating: 6.5
Date: Aug 24, 2007 2:22 pm PT
Review:  I really do have nothing wrong with this game. It is basically the most obvious hunting game ever. 
 You get a gun, you kill. You kill until you can kill the T-Rex. (which isn't too hard) You kill 
 that. The end. Its either keep killing for the hell of it or its quit. I'll admit, i don't have 
 any problems with it. I mostly have dandy memories of it from me and my cousin argueing over how 
 many we could kill at our grandma's house. Anyhow, the gameplay is ok. The graphics are downright 
 awful, but we don't hate LoZ-link's awakening for having *****y graphics, do we? The fun part is 
 just murdering dinosaurs. Though as aforementioned, the graphics do suck, but hearing a boom and 
 watching the screen say that you downed a paralofo-something at 500 yards is still satisfying. 
 If you have it in your closet, dig it out. If you see it at the local game store, buy it.... if 
 it costs $2.00. And by the way, i've never even heard of half the featured menagerie. - - skalokos 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DarkCoyote
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 20, 2006 4:55 am PT
Review:  I remember buying this a long time ago, I was in Game and didnt have many PC games out of curiosity 
 I looked in that section as I was originally there to pick out some bargain PSX games. I saw the 
 huge box, and being an avid fan of Dinosaurs baught it for the price of &pound;11.99! I could wait 
 to get it home, and put it on my Windows 98 computer of the time.
  
  It was awesome, the graphics werent brilliant but at the time they were great and the different 
 enviornments was an added bonus. Having never really played a shooting game I basically sucked 
 at it, but after finally getting the jist of stalking about downwind with my X-Bow crouching by 
 some trees checking the surrounding area for predators took aim then despatched my prey.
  
  Gameplay, intially was addictive as you'd spend hours stalking one Parasaurolophus for it to run 
 away when you shot the wrong area of its body and chase after it. Very much like a hunter sim, 
 it has its dangers from molten java pits to that sneaky Velociraptor which will jump out of nowhere 
 to eat you, beginners are better off starting on The Woods of Turan Choks and hunting Stegosaurus 
 due it having low hearing, average smell and sight also it doesnt run that fast .. a bit stupid 
 to. When starting the game you enter your name, accept a Waiver which means you cant sue Dinocorp 
 for death etc which is an interesting addon, upon entering the menus you can choose to, Hunt, Options, 
 Credits, Trophy, Exit. In the Hunt, menu you start the game, Options changes controls, resolution 
 and other settings, Trophy shows the Dinosaurs you have bagged, Credits gives you Wizardworks people 
 who worked on the game and finally Exit.. which im sure you know what that does. The top part of 
 the menu displays 4 things, your Name, Rank, Score and if you click on Statistics to see some very 
 interesting stats on your last hunt and overall score.
  
  When you chose to Hunt, you will be given 3 Areas to hunt in and 4 Dinosaurs, The more points you 
 rack up the higher your Rank and you unlock more Areas and Dinosaurs including the infamous T-Rex. 
 Novice gives you;
  Dinosaurs: Parasaurolophus, Pachycephalosaurus, Stegosaurus and Allosaurus
  Areas: Woods of Turan 
 Choks, Basmachee Rocks and The Jungles of Gravitsappa.
  Intermediate gives you;
  Dinosaurs: Triceratops and Velociraptor.
  Areas: The ancient Temple and The pyramids of Shmu-Hadron
 
  And finally, Advanced gives you access to:
  The great lake and Tyrannosaurus rex.
  
  Each difficulty raises the Dinosaurs to hunt difficulty, Triceratops may be a plant eater but he 
 wont hesitate to trample you, and T-Rex only sercumbs to a shot in the Eye so hit anywhere else 
 and your dead meat.
  
  Graphics, not so awesome to those who like shiny graphics but if you had 3DFX it would improve 
 the games Graphics otherwise you had to play it on the ingames Graphics. None the less, the areas 
 are huge with rippling water, glaring sunshine and changes in the wind. The dinosaurs themselves 
 look realistic, scratching about the ground then walking about looking for food or prey. If you 
 care to look up also, there is a Terrasaur circling the skies, feel free to shoot them but they 
 add no points to your rank only Satistics.
  
  Sound, eerie. It has no soundtrack but makes up for it with ambience, from the whistling barron 
 hillsides to calls of Dinosaurs your hunting. Its quite amusing hunting Predatorial Dinosaurs as 
 when you use their calls the Gallimimus and Moschops run for cover. The most frightening Dinosaur 
 to hunt sound wise is the T-Rex all you here is the feint thump thump sound untill its too late, 
 but if you were lucky enough to see him first, he will soon see you and the closer you are the 
 more likely you will be killed, you can never out run him.
  
  Overall the game is still very much fun, even today I still play it regardless of its age. I spent 
 many hours on this game to me, it never gets boring.
  
  It may take some Gamers a while to hunt sucessfully, others will sail through the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jackazz17
Rating: 8.7
Date: Aug 11, 2006 1:11 pm PT
Review:  A note on my ratings... the graphics rating I tried to match up with what the standard was when 
 this came out (4th quarter of '98) . Anyways, Carnivores is a new twist on the pretty standard hunting 
 genre. As you can probably tell from the box art, your "game" is none other than a healthy mix 
 of different dinosaurs. The switch of you becoming very fragile in a hunting environment is an 
 interesting and fun twist to the game.
  
  You start out by choosing a location you would like to hunt and what dinosaurs you would specifically 
 like to hunt (though you could encounter any of the ones listed) . Then you choose between three 
 weapons, a shotgun, crossbow, or sniper rifle and choose some other accessories such as a map, 
 cover scent, extra ammo, etc. All of these, however, are chosen on a level based system that is 
 advanced through points. For example, the novice level is the beginning, and you can only hunt 
 three different dinosaurs, two being herbivores and therefore not dangerous to you, and you can 
 only take the shotgun or crossbow and choose one of the first three out of seven locations. As 
 you level up (three levels total) you'll be able to hunt the more dangerous carnivores, ultimately 
 getting to the point to hunt the T-Rex with the sniper rifle.
  
  The different modifications you can take to your hunt do different things to your score, which 
 is determined by how many dinos you take out and their sizes. Things like the map that give you 
 the locations of the dinos and cover scent that help your hunt, take a certain percentage off your 
 score. To offset this or even to bump up your point total, you can opt to tranquilize the dino, 
 which doesn't actually kill it, which also means it won't get added to your trophy room. The trophy 
 room is where all the dinos you've slain are on display for you to walk around and bask in glory. 
 Frankly, that's all there is to do and the whole idea seems like an afterthought.
  
  Graphically this game was very good looking for it's time. The dinos were the most realistic creatures 
 at the time, and especially smaller nimbler ones moved frightingly realistic and quick, opting 
 to run in a zig zag fashion towards you right before leaping at you. The environments are the one 
 of the biggest selling points in this game for me. Each location you can choose to hunt in has 
 dinstint locations in it that stand out from the others. For example, one map has an old abandoned 
 outpost from an early settlement attempt, another has a lava encircled temple, and the last location 
 unlocked by getting to the last level has a massive lake in the middle of it and all of them provide 
 some very interesting hunts.
  
  There is no music in Carnivores, but the ambiance sounds make up for that. You can hear the lava 
 bubbling and flowing when it's around and all the idle bug sounds and wind blowing make you feel 
 like your hunting on some desolate island, yet you never really feel alone. That said, the calls 
 that you use to try to lure other dinos to you are too heavily relied upon and makes you really 
 want to rip your ears off they get so annoying.
  
  All of this adds up to a very satisfying game, with one minor shotcoming, that being it's length. 
 You'll very likely be able to unlock everything in one sitting. You'll get done wishing there were 
 more weapons, more dinos, and more locations to hunt in. But for the time that it lasts, it will 
 be very enjoyable. Besides, by now you should be able to find this in the bargain bin for 10 bucks 
 or under, which is definately worth it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lordlunch2
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jun 29, 2006 8:20 pm PT
Review:  this was the first pc game i bought, and yet i still play it today. im not saying its the best 
 game of all time or anything, its just simple plain fun. the graphics, for its time, are very good. 
 even today, i cant say it looks that bad. the dinosaurs all look great, and the t-rex is absolutly 
 menacing. the sound is also i bright point in the game. for dinosaurs like the raptor and allosaurus, 
 it can scare the crap outta ya. for example; you see the dot on your map showing that your right 
 beside the dinosaur, but you cant see it anywhere. suddenly you hear a "crap your pants" roar and 
 you turn around just as the raptor jumps and tears you to bits. i litteraly fell out of my seat 
 when that happened to me. the controls work well, and they should since you have to have them to 
 play the game. killing dinosaurs requires you to hit it in its weak spot. as you can imagine, that 
 would require some precise aiming, especially when you have to hit the tiny eye of the t-rex to 
 kill it. even with all those great things, the game make for a good hunting game as well. if you 
 dont choose to cover your scent, and use camoflauge, the game can be a real challenge and feel 
 incredibly realistic. this is a game that i would consider a classic hunting game, as well as a 
 must own for any hunting fan. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Achilles438
Rating: 9.2
Date: Mar 26, 2006 7:53 pm PT
Review:  This was a great pc game to play. You are a hunter who is hunting on one out of three islands of 
 your choice which are owned by a company. The islands are full of dinosaurs which you sign a contract 
 to hunt them. If you are killed then they are not responsible, so you are pretty much on your own 
 during the missions. You hunt herbivores and carnivores. The carnivores are the creatures that 
 you have to worry about the most, as they are in the mission and if you dont have your radar set 
 to track that particular species, then you cant see them. I wished that there was a cheat where 
 you could see all of the creatures and not lose points for it. But its not a big issue, as to me 
 they are easy to kill. You have 3 weapons to use, but only two of them are available, the shotgun, 
 the crossbow, and the sniper rifle. The shotgun is the worst weapon except for when the Allosaurus 
 is running at you, the crossbow is the most quite weapon, but it is hard to understand the two 
 part aiming. The sniper rifle is the weapon of choice, as I have used it to hunt many dinosaurs. 
 I think you would find that this game is worth playing and if you missed it, I suggest that you 
 try to find it and play it. You wont be disappointed.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ufopuller
Rating: 7.8
Date: Aug 26, 2005 8:21 pm PT
Review:  The Carnivores game does come right out of the bargain bin. However, do not let that stop you from 
 enjoying a very challenging game. This game starts the player out with very simple weapons. As 
 ones skills and kills become more proficient, newer weapons that are more powerful are unlocked 
 for use. Start with a souped-up crossbow and end with a scoped high-powered rifle. The player picks 
 the terrain from about five different types. Pick arid to tropical, but always on an island. The 
 prey varies from timid smaller herbivores to T. Rex. The player can pick from helpful camouflage 
 to a de-scenter. The timid, herbivores run quickly if they see or hear you, thus one learns about 
 the sight and hearing capabilities of a range of dinosaurs. If Raptors and T. Rex whiff or see 
 you, the player may become the prey's lunch.
  
  Once the animal is killed, the player can decide to take it as a trophy or not. If it is trophy 
 time, a helicopter flies in with what appears to be a pie-like configuration that latches on to 
 the kill and takes it to your trophy room. The player can traverse this square trophy area at the 
 beginning of each new hunt. Each animals, size, weight, and date of kill is on display. This part 
 is cool. 
  
  Overall, this game is like the Deer Hunter series, except in some circumstances, the prey can consume 
 the hunter.
  
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
