-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Carnivores: Ice Age
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/action/carnivoresiceage/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Jan 30, 2001
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 5.4
Critic Score: 5.5, 12 Review (s)
User Score: 7.2, 93 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: WizardWorks
Developer: Action Forms
Genre: Action
Date:     Jan 15, 2001
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
The only difference between Carnivores: Ice Age and the previous games is that there aren't any 
 dinosaurs to shoot this time. 

 Published in 1998, the original Carnivores arrived just in time to cash in on the popularity of 
 the hunting genre. One year earlier, the budget-priced Deer Hunter introduced players to this type 
 of game, which used a first-person view to simulate the hunter having to stalk his wild prey. Carnivores 
 took this concept one step further by placing you in a fictitious yet realistic-looking setting 
 in which dinosaurs roamed the land. You'd get to hunt these as though they were deer -- the key difference 
 being that a lot of them could fight back. Carnivores was an interesting game, and it actually 
 featured a rather impressive 3D-graphics engine as well. One year later, the sequel to Carnivores 
 introduced a more open-ended play style but remained basically identical to its predecessor. And 
 now, more than one year after Carnivores 2, the third installment in the series is once again essentially 
 the same game as the very first. The only difference between Carnivores: Ice Age and the previous 
 games is that there aren't any dinosaurs to shoot this time.           A prehistoric giant deer 
 can withstand more damage than a modern one.    

 Carnivores: Ice Age is only superficially different from its two predecessors, and its superficial 
 differences don't even amount to much. The game recycles the same exact 3D graphics engine that 
 was used in the previous two installments, and while this engine was actually rather impressive 
 several years ago, it doesn't look like much the third time around. A lot of the engine's problems 
 still remain in Carnivores: Ice Age, most notably in the way that objects such as trees and shrubs 
 tend to get very blocky when they're viewed up close. Also, although most of the game's five similar-looking 
 hunting environments are covered in snow, nothing -- not even a gigantic woolly mammoth -- leaves prints 
 in the snow. Nothing left footprints in previous Carnivores games either, but being able to track 
 your enemies through the snow would have been a perfectly suitable way of enhancing the gameplay 
 of the third game in the series.           Prehistoric boars will attack you if cornered.    

 
 The game recycles all the same weapons as Carnivores 2, which itself added only one new weapon 
 to the original game's selection. The small selection of weapons in Ice Age still includes a pistol, 
 shotgun, rifle, crossbow, double-barreled shotgun, and sniper rifle. The latter weapon remains 
 especially disappointing, as you can't even actually see the rifle -- instead, you're limited to 
 using it from a locked, slightly zoomed-in perspective. The powerful, high-tech crossbow and the 
 double-barreled shotgun (which looks like it was taken straight out of id Software's classic shooter 
 sequel, Doom II) are still the most satisfying. Certainly, the fact that the Carnivores series 
 essentially plays like a hunting simulation precludes the inclusion of any particularly original 
 weapons; but nevertheless, there's no shortage of variety in real-life firearms, so the weapons 
 in Ice Age could have at least looked and sounded different than in the previous games.   

  As in the other Carnivores games, the actual creatures in Carnivores: Ice Age look excellent. Clearly, 
 these are the focus of the game. As the title suggests, there are no dinosaurs in Carnivores: Ice 
 Age -- instead, you'll get to hunt various gigantic, fur-covered prehistoric mammals, including mammoths, 
 rhinos, deer, wolves, bears, and, of course, saber-toothed tigers -- plus, for good measure, a bipedal 
 prehistoric bird. Most every one of these creatures looks very lifelike. You can tell a lot of 
 time went into making them look and move realistically. You can walk right up to them and watch 
 them wander about in the game's observer mode, and it's actually quite enjoyable to do this for 
 a while. Most of the animals seem to act realistically as well, as the meeker ones will flee if 
 they notice you, while the tougher ones will rush toward you for the kill.    

 The creatures sound fairly convincing, as do the various environmental audio effects in the game. 
 But there's little sound in Carnivores: Ice Age overall, and a lot of it is recycled from the earlier 
 games.           Binoculars can give you a closer look, but don't help much.    

 Carnivores: Ice Age plays just like Carnivores 2. There's no campaign and there are no missions -- you 
 just specify what you want to hunt for and what you want to hunt with, and then you get to it. 
 You can exit out of a hunting area at any time, and if you get killed, you can easily start over. 
 You have an allocation of points, which you spend to customize your hunt. Each weapon costs a specific 
 number of points, as does each type of creature and each of the five expansive outdoor environments. 
 Initially, you'll be able to hunt only the weaker creatures with the weaker weapons in the less 
 challenging environments. But as you successfully shoot down creatures, you'll earn more points, 
 with which you can expand your arsenal and take on greater challenges. As in previous installments, 
 you can opt to use tranquilizer rounds, which give you some bonus points but don't earn you any 
 trophies for showing off your hunting skills. You can sacrifice a percentage of points you earn 
 in order to bring along cover scents, camouflage, and even a radar display, all to make hunting 
 easier. The actual hunting still basically involves your having to use animal calls for attracting 
 or tracking your unwary prey and then trying to stay quiet and moving against the wind so that 
 the prey doesn't smell you. When you get close enough, you need to make your shots count, as your 
 foe will either run away or try to kill you if you fail to aim precisely. As in previous Carnivores 
 games, the close-quarters showdowns with the gigantic predators in Carnivores: Ice Age can be very 
 intense.           The diatryma is quick on its feet and has a foul temper.    

 The game's reliance on an open-ended play system is what might ruin it for you. The five different 
 locales don't offer much variety; some of them seem more dangerous, but there are no environmental 
 hazards. At least you can choose to hunt either during the day, at dawn, or at night, though these 
 options aren't new. Also, being able to hunt multiple types of creatures per session as you earn 
 more points doesn't add much to the game, but rather makes you have to do a lot of guesswork as 
 to which animal call to use. And eventually being able to afford bringing all the weapons along 
 on a hunt doesn't do much for the game, either. Some weapons are simply better than others, and 
 there's no use in trying to switch guns if you've been spotted by a predator. Furthermore, you'll 
 be tempted to bring the radar along on every hunt and to simply keep resetting a hunting scenario 
 until you begin with targets nearby. The radar makes finding foes a nonissue and eliminates any 
 challenge in having to track creatures. Finally, unlike in previous installments, Carnivores: Ice 
 Age doesn't inform you about the various creatures' weak points -- and in fact, the creatures seem 
 more resistant to damage in general. You'll find that the game rewards you for pumping rapid-fire 
 rifle rounds into a target just as soon as it'll reward pinpoint accuracy.   

  In the end, there isn't much reason to recommend Carnivores: Ice Age. Fans of either or both of 
 the previous installments will be disappointed to find that so little has changed in the new game. 
 Meanwhile, those who are new to the series will find that its production values and open-ended 
 gameplay don't leave much of an impression. So unless it's extremely important for you to find 
 a game that lets you hunt prehistoric mammals as opposed to prehistoric reptiles, you might as 
 well stay out of the way of Carnivores: Ice Age.    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (5 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: ErkiB
Rating: 5.5
Date: Jun 12, 2008 1:09 pm PT
Review:  Well Carnivores was my first shooter game, If you can call it that. I loved it when I was younger 
 but now it is loosing its shine altough it is still a fun game whenever you are bored and have 
 a crappy computer at hand: D.
  
  Carnivores Ice Age does not have amazing graohics and that is logical because its an old game. The 
 gameplay can get boring but it is very exciting to play because like when a animal attacks without 
 you knowing it can be pretty scary.
  
  There arent alot of weapons, neither are there any armors and such but dont get me wrong this kind 
 of game is good. It doesnt need any armor looks and no wpecial tank weapons but still is alot of 
 fun.
  
  Animals: They are cool. There are  tigers) and even yetis. yeah Bigfoots.
 
  
  Overall: This is a fun game and still can give you atleast a few hours of entertainment. Try it if 
 you have a chance! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: liukang666
Rating: 6
Date: Jan 27, 2008 12:55 pm PT
Review:  When my cousin and I were young, we would both enjoy this weird shooting game, as well as the other 
 carnivores games. In truth, this game is barely different then the others: same graphics, same 
 guns, same format (pick gun, items, animals, etc) as the others, the only real noticable difference 
 is that it is set in the ice age. Alright, so instead of killing a velociraptor your killing a 
 bear, but still, its fun. There really isn't too much of an essence of "hunting" in this game, 
 it's more of a run up and shoot thing. The only things that bug me with this game are for one, 
 the graphics have not improved even slightly over any of the other games. The other thing, which 
 also bugged me about the other games, is that in "hunting", some bear 4 hundred yards away can't 
 just "smell" you when you on top of a freaking rock with a sniper rifle! Nonetheless, this is still 
 a fun game and argueing over how many yetis are in your trophy room is always fun! Just heed this 
 advice: if you get trapped in your room and can't escape, plus all your games but this one are 
 broken, play it. If you see it in the bargain bin, it's best just to leave it where it lays. In 
 the words of Stephen King "Sometimes, dead is better" - Skalokos 
::::::

::::::
UserName: woef
Rating: 5.3
Date: Jan 31, 2007 11:01 am PT
Review:  The first Carnivores game was a great game, it was like shooting deers and collecting trophy's 
 from them, after that the second game was released, again you could shoot dinosaurs, now they have 
 releases C: Ice age.
  C: Ice age is the same as the first two games, only this time you get to shoot beasts, like bears 
 and lions.
  
  Gameplay:
  +Carnivores gameplay stays intact
  -No dinosaurs to shoot
  -Does not offer any new options compared to the first two carnivores
  -Showing its age
  
 
  Graphics:
  +Amazing to see how this game runs and looks for its age
  +/- New snow lands are nice to see but there arent really improvements
  
  Sounds:
  +lol nice 
 gun sounds and animal sounds
  -Some thrilling music would have fit this game
  
  Value:
  +This game is to play in about 1 hour and then you get bored
  and you will use cheats.
  +/- 
 Trophy room is still there
  
  Tilt:
  -Definitely showing its age
  -Not the same as the first carnivores
  
  C: Ice age is more like a patch then it is a real 
 game.
  bye 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Simeet
Rating: 3.6
Date: Mar 21, 2006 11:34 pm PT
Review:  In "Carnivores: Ice Age" you are some hunter in which advanced technology has allowed you to hunt 
 prehistoric animals on islands! Sounds familiar? Well, this concept is borrowed from Jurassic Park. 
 The game engine and layout is essentially a recycle from Carnivores I and II. 
  
  This is a bargain bin game. The graphics are bad. Even by 2001 standards. Now, it is just awful. 
 It is very buggy. The graphics are at best, from 1996 standards in terms of 3D modeling. But I 
 remember Duke Nuken being much better. The sound is actually pretty good. It is a simple hunting 
 game that lacks excitement, polish, or quality control. 
  
  The premise of the game is to keep hunting the animals you pick to hunt to amass points, which 
 is used to unlock the rest of the islands and animals, as well as guns and equipment. The animals 
 are the butter and gravy of the game, they are not so bad actually. But the maps are so huge, you 
 spend a lot of time just treading around chasing after these huge beasts. The death scene is a 
 lot of fun, the Ice Age animals will either chomp you up or pound you to death. 
  
  The premise of this game, and other games like it are very good. I have no idea why studio do not 
 invest in creating surivial-themed games set in settings like prehistoric Earth or even a good 
 survival game set in a Land of the Dead type world. I think that people would buy these games by 
 the bundle, yet the best studios have to offer are games like "Carnivore" and "Trespasser." 
  
  Since this appears to be the only game set in a Ice Age huntign atmosphere, if this interests 
 you give it a shot. But don't spend more than a buck or two on it, and actually if you know how 
 to download from file-sharing sites then download if there, because this game is not good!
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: sharkluver3152
Rating: 7.4
Date: Jan 23, 2006 7:42 pm PT
Review:  In Carnivores: Ice Age, you don't hunt dinos anymore, now they are prehistoric mammal who just 
 want to be shot and put in a trophy room. The starting is funny because they have this thing that 
 says dinocorp is not responsible for your injuries or death, XD. Anyway, you have 5 maps to choose 
 from (have to have enough credits to go to certain ones) i think seven weapons and a varaity of 
 animal to choose from (plus the mystery animal "ooooooooooooo aaaaaaaaa") . What you are basicly 
 doing in this game is going around and shooting animals, simple enough, and putting them in your 
 trophy room. What can i say, this game is average, fun gameplay, average graphics, i like the sound 
 cause you hear all the different animal calls, value is good, go buy it for $5-$12. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
