-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Carnivores 2
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/action/carnivores2/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Nov 12, 1999
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7.3
Critic Score: 6.7, 10 Review (s)
User Score: 8.1, 180 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: WizardWorks
Developer: Action Forms
Genre: Fantasy First-Person...
Date:     Oct 31, 1999
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
It's essentially identical to the original, but its streamlined gameplay and expanded menagerie 
 make it just as enjoyable. 

 It's too easy to go on about how terrible most hunting games are. Suffice it to say that such games 
 exist and thrive because they reconstruct a sport whose uniquely violent rules are appealing to 
 a lot of people. These gamers do not specifically want to kill deer; they simply want to experience 
 the hunt. Recognizing this, Ukrainian developer Action Forms created Carnivores, which gave you 
 the hunter's tools of the trade, only you'd hunt dinosaurs instead of deer. Suddenly the ethical 
 argument was no longer relevant - dinosaurs are already dead - and what was left was a great-looking 
 little first-person game that cleverly simulated what it might be like to take on a triceratops 
 with a shotgun. One good idea made way for another, and less than a year later, Carnivores 2 was 
 published. It's essentially identical to the original, but its streamlined gameplay and expanded 
 menagerie make it just as enjoyable.  

 True to its title, this sequel emphasizes dinosaurs of the more voracious variety. Whereas only 
 three dinosaurs in the first game were meat eaters, Carnivores 2 adds the camel-like spinosaurus 
 and the horned ceratosaurus to the fray, which make for a fine assortment of dangerous game alongside 
 the velociraptor, allosaurus, and tyrannosaurus. There are new plant eaters as well, including 
 the armored anklyosaurus. Some of these, such as the towering brachiosaurus, are present to provide 
 atmosphere rather than sport. As in the first Carnivores, everything that lives and breathes in 
 Carnivores 2 looks terrific. All the dinosaurs are carefully detailed and almost disturbingly lifelike 
 as they graze and go about their dinosaur business. They leave trails of blood if you shoot and 
 wound them, and if you take them out with tranquilizers, you can see them heaving in slumber. These 
 are truly some of the best-looking dinosaurs ever rendered onscreen. They also sound convincing, 
 and while you can't know what a dinosaur actually sounds like, Carnivores 2 poses a pretty good 
 hypothesis. The nine species you hunt all have their own distinctive calls, and the larger ones 
 sound downright scary.  

 Fortunately, you've got a pretty scary arsenal with which to take these things down. From the conventional 
 9mm pistol on up to the long-range sniper rifle, these six guns are all functionally different 
 and tactically interesting. All the weapons from the first game are back, and aside from the pistol, 
 the only other addition is a mean double-barreled shotgun that pays homage to the superweapon of 
 the sequel to Doom, id Software's classic. The hunting tools from the first game are back, including 
 camouflage, cover scent, and even a tracking device that shows dinosaurs on your map. Using these 
 tools detracts from the points you earn with each kill, while using tranquilizers boosts your totals 
 but won't put that tyrannosaurus in your trophy room.  

 You want to earn points because everything you take into the field costs a certain amount. It's 
 like the dinosaur hunter's credit rating; at first you'll only be able to go against piddling plant 
 eaters with a pistol, but soon you'll be able to take on larger dinosaurs with more appropriate 
 weaponry. The first Carnivores forced you to hunt one type of dinosaur at a time with one type 
 of weapon at a time, but Carnivores 2 lifts this restriction and lets you take on as many types 
 of dinos with as many types of weapons as you can afford. This adds a fresh change of pace to gameplay 
 that's otherwise identical to the original, which involves locating, stealthily approaching, and 
 then dispatching the target with a well-aimed shot to its weak spot. As in the first game, dinosaurs 
 respond to you in a fairly realistic fashion and can hear, smell, or see you if you aren't careful. 
 The peaceful ones will then flee, while the carnivores will swoop toward you and turn you into 
 lunch.  

 Or breakfast or dinner if applicable; not only does Carnivores 2 present more and bigger environments 
 than its predecessor, but it lets you choose what time of day you want to hunt: dawn, day, or night. 
 Night missions are seen through the distinctive green tint of vision-enhancement goggles, whereas 
 fog and stark sunlight permeate hunts that take place early in the morning. The effects look great, 
 and the terrain still looks realistic and beautiful. This 3D engine continues to hold up with the 
 best of them.  

 Carnivores 2 is a great diversion just like its ancestor. You can play for a few minutes or, just 
 as easily, a few hours, because each hunt can last for as long as you like, and the game provides 
 an extensive and variable challenge. Your style of play will change drastically depending on whether 
 you're hunting a meat eater or a plant eater, and the game is even more dynamic than the first 
 now that you can throw everything into the mix at once. Those who played the original Carnivores 
 ought to expect more of the same (at the same low price) , while those who didn't, but who either 
 like dinosaurs or the idea of shooting them, ought to take this second chance without hesitation. 
    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (6 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Pablo_SL
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 25, 2007 12:26 pm PT
Review:  The reviews about this game are stupd , there are not many things funnier than killing dinosaurs 
 and this title takes the best of the first game and improves it. It also reminds me of the time 
 when HL came out a really golden age for video games betwen Doom and HL and then this game (not 
 saying that is as good as HL but it is one of the best FPS I've played) wich is the best hunting 
 simulation ever in my opinion and the dinos give the game a lot of fun. Don't let yourself being 
 blinded by the critics this is a great title and if you can get it cheap (wich is probable because 
 it is really old) BUY IT now. 
  Nothing else to say only that it has been judge unfairly. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: killer39
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 30, 2007 6:11 pm PT
Review:  once you play it you wont wanna stop! (if your not stupid) . its challenging hunt mode is addictive. 
 you can even go to a trophy room and see the dinos that you kill. the more dinos you kill the more 
 points you get to hunt different dinos, different areas and better guns to kill the dinos.
  a truly amazing game worth playing. killers ratings (out of ten) :
  gameplay: 9.7
  graphics: 
 6.9
  sound: 8.4
  quality: 9.1
  total: 9.5
  you will wanna play it over and over. its just so freacking fun. youll probably keep playing for 
 about 2 years. T-rex is hard though. you gotta shoot it in the freacking eye! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mr_1234Anderson
Rating: 9.2
Date: Apr 9, 2007 9:58 pm PT
Review:  well, some of the reviews on here are saying bad things about this game. ITS NOT THAT BAD!!! the 
 graphics were great for 1999 and im not bothered by them in the age of tiberium and R6V. yes, it 
 get boring, but thats what cheats are for. and i had no problem playing on multiple windows xp 
 machines. the large arsenal of weapons is fun to take out against the dinos. even though you have 
 to track a dino across a map, seeing one charge at you gives you a small rush. and then BOOM you 
 have yourself a trophy. a lot of dino and maps give you a large vareity to choose from. then you 
 have night vision mode and many more options to chose from. overall, if you can find this game 
 for cheap, GET IT. it is a nice break from modern games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kakaroti4
Rating: 5.5
Date: Oct 13, 2007 7:48 am PT
Review:  -The good: big maps, different hunting times, good list of game animals, good weapons layout, good 
 graphics, modding is easy, good concept, longevity value. -The bad: miserable XP compatibility, 
 inaccurate dinosaur fact, no weather system. 
 
  
  The games concept is pretty unique. You hunt extinct dinosaurs on 5 big different maps. You can 
 hunt various species of dinosaurs and of course the carnivorous dinosaurs. The game keeps you in 
 suspense, and the fear that they might a Velociraptor pack that is hunting you instead of you hunting 
 them! I literally jumped out of my seat when I got killed by an Allosaurus! It is hard not to get 
 involved in the primal atmosphere in carnivores 2. If you are lucky enough to be able to play the 
 Game in Direct 3D mode, you will see that the game considering its age, still looks fresh and lively! 
 I was surprised by how deep the environment and details were in the game. The animals cast shadows, 
 even the flying ones, dinosaurs behave very well, and dig for food and get scared if you come to 
 close or use a predator call, and you can literally explore everything on the maps! The bad side 
 in this game is the inaccurate data you see in the dinosaurs descriptions, some dinosaurs are 
 bigger than in real life, and this makes the game look a bit cheap! But it is nothing that you 
 cant fix on your own, the game is easy to mod, and you can easily make the dinosaurs bigger, smarter 
 and edit it all just using notepad! This also goes for the menu and the descriptions, they can 
 easily be changed to accurate facts, and you can even make the dinosaurs more accurate in size, 
 by editing a simple file. So these flaws seem correctable, but one HUGE issue still remains and 
 that is the miserable XP compatibility. If you plan to buy this game digitally and have a modern 
 PC setup with a good graphics card and so on, well buddy it wont help you! The game has a tendency 
 to freeze or crash every time you play it in Direct 3D mode. A patch made for the game wont help 
 at all! And another patch made by fan communities varies in success. And it almost seems stupid 
 to play the game in software mode, because you lose the games potential and that just plane sucks! 
 It is also highly suspicious why there is no official XP patch released for this game, because 
 it still can be bought at ATARI. com, and being able to buy it and have no guaranty that it will 
 work is one bad deal if you ask me. If there would be released a modern patch for this game that 
 addresses these seemingly small issues, we would still have a very solid game to play. But unfortunately 
 we are stuck with the bare minimum what goes for support for a game that still is sold and loved 
 by many who really cant get the best out of it. So my verdict will rely heavily on this, and until 
 I find a reasonable way to play this game as it should be played, the verdict will stand. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ElBarto111393
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jun 11, 2006 10:04 am PT
Review:  I just love this game! Ever since I was about six, I've loved dinosaurs. My friend gave it to me 
 one day to play and he said, "You've just got to try this game, it's awesome!" So I tried it, and 
 got addicted right away!
  
  Pros: Love the weapons; cheats help you out a lot if your a cheater... like me; big dinosaurs up 
 to 13 tons; nice environments
  
  Cons: Graphics are kind of blocky, but this game was made a while ago; killing the T-Rex is kind 
 of un-realistic
  
  Overall this game is just plain fun. If you love dinosaurs and love killing them, get this game! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: joshy223
Rating: 8.5
Date: May 13, 2005 2:56 am PT
Review:  i peronally love the carnivore sereise (sorry for spelling!) i am peronally a hunter myself! carnivores 
 2 starts just like the other ones. u sighn a waver. and begin you hunts! it doen't take long to 
 get the sniper and hunt t-rex. carnivores are the only exciting part of the game, hervibores are 
 just target practice! they need to balance the radar non radar system. it's almost impossible to 
 find your game without the radar and with the radar it way to easy to find and kill ur creatures. 
 o well if your a impatient hunter you will love this game!
  
  i got this game when i was little! lol ! i got scared of carnivores! lol if they scare you just turn 
 off volume this seem to help some peoples! 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
