-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Car Tycoon
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/strategy/cartycoon/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Jan 16, 2002
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 5.1
Critic Score: 4.5, 8 Review (s)
User Score: 5.9, 171 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Fishtank Interactive
Genre: Business Strategy
Date:     Jan 4, 2002
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Car Tycoon may appear to be a decent ride, but if you're looking for a really excellent management 
 game, you should look elsewhere. 

  Chances are, you've probably never actually dreamed of being a "car tycoon." In fact, you've probably 
 never even used the words "car" and "tycoon" in the same sentence. Fishtank's economic strategy 
 game isn't really based on some childhood dream that we all had when we were very young. Instead, 
 it's more likely a tardy attempt to cash in on the phenomenal success of RollerCoaster Tycoon, 
 a management strategy game from Infogrames that was released over two years ago, yet still enjoys 
 consistently high sales. So does Car Tycoon manage to be as engaging and addicting as RollerCoaster 
 Tycoon? Not really.           Car Tycoon is disappointingly limited when it comes to customizing 
 your cars.    

  At a glance, Car Tycoon looks like a legitimate strategy game. Most of the game takes place in 
 an overhead view of the large city in which you do your business, and the city itself is represented 
 fairly well with somewhat plain but otherwise clean and colorful 2D graphics. The bottom of the 
 screen is occupied by various icons that act as shortcuts to open up small, unobtrusive menus that 
 display clearly color-coded information and data in simple graphs. The game takes place in real 
 time, and several in-game minutes roughly equate to a month of game time. Most games play out over 
 the course of several years, though you can accelerate time or pause whenever you wish. The game 
 doesn't really have any sound effects to speak of (other than a few simple clicking sounds to confirm 
 that you've clicked on a shortcut) , but its music is actually pretty decent. Car Tycoon's music 
 consists of a few different upbeat synth tracks that can get repetitive but otherwise aren't that 
 bad.   

  Unfortunately, once you start playing, you'll see Car Tycoon's facade fall apart. You'll start 
 to notice minor details, like the fact that although the game lets you zoom in and out of the city 
 view, the zoomed-in view serves no useful purpose, and it doesn't even look good, since the further 
 you zoom in, the blurrier the game looks. Also, though the game features some 20 different scenarios 
 and 20 different free-form games across a 50-year period (from the 1950s to the end of the 20th 
 century) , and allows you to build old-fashioned Thunderbirds and modern-day coupes, you'll never 
 be able to customize any of your cars other than choosing from a simple set of components, including 
 the chassis, engine, interior, and body. Since you choose to play as one of four color-coded companies, 
 you can't even choose the color of your cars or their parts -- if you're the yellow company, all 
 your cars are yellow. It's just as well, since you'll never really get to take a close look at 
 any car you build. Car Tycoon's cars are all represented in miniature on the map, and that's all 
 you'll ever see of them, so if you're interested in really getting into the nuts and bolts of building 
 and designing detailed custom cars, you'll be sorely disappointed.   

  As a game, Car Tycoon is relatively straightforward -- you generally want to make as much money as 
 you can and/or sell as many cars as you can. You can do this by producing cheap cars, offering 
 extras such as discounts or free maintenance, advertising your cars, or investing your funds in 
 the stock market. The game's scenario mode sets specific goals for you, such as selling a certain 
 number of a certain type of car or earning a certain amount of money. This wouldn't be particularly 
 challenging if the game didn't have other problems, like its lack of documentation or its disjointed 
 interface, which often displays vague or incomplete information.           Some interface problems 
 make playing Car Tycoon cumbersome.    

  For instance, other than the year-end evaluation the game gives you, it's impossible to get any 
 clear numbers of how many different types of cars you've sold in the past months. You can actually 
 attempt to sabotage the competition, though even if you do appear to have successfully sabotaged 
 a competitor (Car Tycoon will either give you a failure message, or no message at all) , you'll 
 basically never see any kind of real result. Also, you must expand your base of operations by buying 
 up additional car factories, dealerships, and garages in municipal auctions, but these auctions 
 tend to come out of the blue and interrupt whatever you're doing, and you'll usually end up buying 
 up buildings all over the map. You can consult a single larger map to jump to your different holdings, 
 but it's hardly useful for keeping specific tabs on all of them -- you'll instead want to use the 
 "jump to next building" shortcut and bypass the map altogether. However, one of the best ways to 
 make money is to check with the "big customers" that are located at random areas of the map, so 
 you'll alternately spend your time combing the large city map looking for them and jumping around 
 to your different holdings. Car Tycoon's biggest problem is that it doesn't have a simple central 
 menu that gives you all the information, figures, and locations you need when you need it. Instead, 
 it has an animated (and rather vague) advisor that may tell you that "the demand for cars has gone 
 up" or that "you've been voted man of the year" (whatever that means) .   

  Is Car Tycoon at all enjoyable if you can tolerate its many problems? Possibly. If you enjoy a 
 management strategy game that lets you acquire large amounts of imaginary money, and you don't 
 mind hunting through multiple menus just to try to find an unclear approximation of how you're 
 doing, you might enjoy Car Tycoon. And considering that it has 40 different scenarios, you'll be 
 able to get quite a bit of that enjoyment (whatever it might be) from the game. However, if you've 
 seen a few screenshots and have come to the conclusion that Car Tycoon is about as good as most 
 other management strategy games, don't be fooled. Car Tycoon may appear to be a decent ride, but 
 if you're looking for a really excellent management game, you should look elsewhere.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (6 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Rainbowsix6666
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 9, 2007 7:36 am PT
Review:  this game might be fun, if others think it is good. I found this game in a second hand game shop 
 hiding in the corner of the pc games. Without even reading about the game i grabbed it and payed 
 the ten bucks for the game. When I got it home I installed the game and played it for two days 
 strait. I fell in love with the game. It may not be the coolest simulator out there but is sure 
 is one of my favorites. I am a car freek and that game made me feel so good inside and it was great 
 to know that gaming companies are coming out with newer ideas. It was the greatest but not the 
 coolest simulator game ever!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mentat76
Rating: 4.4
Date: Dec 20, 2006 3:06 am PT
Review:  I am always excited by the idea of car manufacturing as a computer game. I always wonder why not 
 any company attempts a project on this. I am 100% sure tycoon lovers will support the idea. All 
 I can say is this is a nice attempt by fishtank interactive however the outcome is eventually dull 
 and unornamented. The structure of the game is well done. Manufacturing processes are simplified. 
 Watching cars being produced is fun. Musics are superb. On the other hand, research is linear and 
 severely bad handled. Categories are ok however insufficent as a car is introduced no more than 
 chasis, engine, suspension and interior. No accessories are mentioned. You simply research interiors 
 as spring, redwood, fun etc. You invest tons of dollars for another color of a seat?? how dull. 
 You research 4L engine, than 2,5L engine and 5,5 Lt engine?? and what is the improvement about 
 in all these?
  
  there is no feedback from the market available. What are the customers thoughts? What they desire 
 and why are not your cars are selling well? o can say.
  
  Sabotage and espionage is terrible as just like that option is added later in last minute.
  
 
  Factory purchases are arcade style auctions so as the dealerships and garages. No color options 
 in cars. No promotions and labor strikes, The old Detroit game (just a classic now) handled car 
 making much more comprehensive and offered all of the atated above. Sales and dealerships were 
 much more consistent. It gave more the feeling of managing a company. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lennex2
Rating: 6.7
Date: Jun 14, 2006 1:53 pm PT
Review:  Car Tycoon is an interesting game. It's fun, its frustraing, and a pain in the ass... like most 
 Tycoon games.
  
  The graphics may not be top notch, the sound is pretty much non-existant unless you count the repeating 
 surf/blues-rock music that repeats constantly. But the value and quality of gameplay is definatly 
 fun!
  
  I found myself glued to this game for a couple of hours this week. Spending some 4 two hour sessions 
 on this game and not getting very far. It brought me back to the past when I first found it in 
 the $20 bargin bin and got equaly frustrated, but still played it for hours!
  
  The gameplay is simple, yet interesting. Developing your own cars is fun, and relativley painless. 
 The only thing you really got to worry about is planning for the future.
  
  The computer is surprisingly fast in it's conquering of the senarios, which can make you go batty 
 on a few missions, but eventually you will get the hang of things.
  
  The music is hypnotising, and I found myself leaving the games 'theme' song on while doing a bit 
 of house work. While its a short repeating tune, it's happy and dosn't get on your nerves. Great 
 'song writing' if you want to call it that.
  
  An updated 3D version of this game would be fun... but maybe only for me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jacobderosenoir
Rating: 1.3
Date: Mar 10, 2006 5:37 am PT
Review:  This is my worst game ever just before Startup 2000. I'm a big fan of financial simulation having 
 Capitalism in my hall of fame. I'm also a big fan of Car industry history. So when I saw they were 
 doing a business game on this I jump right on it before any review were made.... my error. 
  
  This game has nothing. The interface is so confusing, the AI is so Bad, making cars is not 
 even fun, the market behavior is so lame..... well I'll just stop here cause the only positive point 
 I saw for this game is that you realise it's a very bad game right after the end of the lame tutorial 
 and therefore you can stop playing it right away, not wasting too much time on it. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Arob_2006
Rating: 7.3
Date: Nov 28, 2005 8:31 am PT
Review:  I found this game in a second hand game shop hiding in the corner of the pc games. Without even 
 reading about the game i grabbed it and payed the ten bucks for the game. When I got it home I 
 installed the game and played it for two days strait. I fell in love with the game. It may not 
 be the coolest simulator out there but is sure is one of my favorites. I am a car freek and that 
 game made me feel so good inside and it was great to know that gaming companies are coming out 
 with newer ideas. The only thing that I didn't like about the game is that for some crazy reason 
 the game would never save for me, might be the fact that the game was used but I dont know. I give 
 it a seven. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: manunick
Rating: 3
Date: Oct 21, 2005 9:06 am PT
Review:  GRAPHICS
  
  The graphics in this game are alright, its 2D, but when you zoom in, everything gets blocky. The 
 cars and people look very simple. Everything is colour-coded to tell what it is. The graphics are 
 plain, but arent terrible. All-in-all the graphics are O. K.
  
  GAME PLAY
  
  The basic goal in this is to make a successful car company in a city. Its very straight forward 
 but very boring, its near impossible to do badly on this game, unless you really try. You also 
 have very limited opinions over car design; you chose the shell, the chassis, the seats and the 
 engine, the problem is the game tells you what goes with what, so after playing it once, if you 
 start again youll properly make the same car. You go from the 1950s to the 2000s in the game. 
 In it you have to buy factories, dealerships and garages, in auctions, one factory can build one 
 car, so you need a few. You also have no idea how youre doing until the end of the year, so you 
 dont know if you should stop making a car. On the game you can also sabotage other companys, 
 but even when it does work, nothing really happens. The problem with game play on this is that 
 its too simple and very very linear. All-in-all the game play is awful. 
  
  SOUND
  
  The sound is O. K, there is really no sound other than a few background tracks, ther'e O. K but there 
 is only a few so it can get a bit repetitive. All-in-all the musics O. K and its properly the best 
 thing in the game. But thats not hard.
  
  STORY
  
  There is no story, so Ill stop now.
  
  OVERALL
  
  Overall this game is terrible, it boring, 
 linear and basic. I would strongly advise you dont this game as you will be sick of it after  
 an hour. All-in-all dont buy this game ever, as its one of the worst games Ive ever played.
 
  
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
