-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Casino Mogul
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/strategy/casinomogul/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Apr 24, 2002
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 6.4
Critic Score: 6.0, 2 Review (s)
User Score: 5.9, 8 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: DreamCatcher Interactive
Developer: Cat Daddy Games
Genre: Business Strategy
Date:     Mar 17, 2002
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Its good premise is almost enough to outweigh its frustrating design flaws. 

  Casino Mogul might just give you a migraine. It has some significant problems, not the least of 
 which is its monotonous and grating soundtrack. The game draws a great deal of inspiration from 
 RollerCoaster Tycoon (and by default from Theme Park) , and it lets you manage a casino from carpets 
 to craps. It's yet another game trying to jump on the "tycoon" bandwagon, though it features a 
 good premise that is almost enough to outweigh its frustrating design flaws.           Teach them 
 how to give you their money.    

  You start simple. At the beginning, all you have is a big empty room. You can build slot machines 
 and a cashier's booth. Other games and attractions have prerequisites. To build a bar, you need 
 a janitor's closet. To build blackjack and Caribbean stud poker tables, you need a pit boss station. 
 To build more-complex gaming tables, such as pai gow poker and craps, you need to offer gambling 
 lessons. Later, you can add a hotel, gift shops, a sports book, and a keno room. Casino Mogul's 
 pacing is just right in this respect -- when your simple games start earning money, you'll have enough 
 to move on to the bigger games. When those start earning money, you'll have enough to move on to 
 the high-cost additions.   

  The pacing is not so good in other respects. Your casino can hold only a very limited number of 
 patrons, and in order to raise the capacity you need to expand. However, there is a noticeable 
 discrepancy in the amount of space you'll need to accommodate a profitable crowd and the amount 
 of space you will actually need for slot machines and gaming tables. Good planning is punished 
 in this respect, because you'll find yourself expanding simply so you can attract more visitors, 
 and not because you need the space. This causes a problem with your janitors, who have to cover 
 more ground and clean up the trash of guests who are often wandering around with nothing to do. 
   

  You'll encounter yet another problem if you decide to fill up the empty space with cheap slot machines 
 and blackjack tables, just so you aren't staring at hundreds of square feet of gaudy carpet. Almost 
 everything you build in your casino has a maintenance cost, and that cost is the same no matter 
 how much it's used -- a slot machine that's just sitting in a corner will cost as much to maintain 
 as one that sees a good deal of action. Because of this, trying to plan a casino that's lively 
 and full is not a viable option. Bankruptcy is always just around the corner, and the game offers 
 no loans or assistance to help offset losses. So once you start losing money, it'll be gone in 
 no time. Similarly, the objects in your casino will deteriorate at a constant rate, so building 
 four identical slot machines at once will ensure that they'll all break down simultaneously.   
 

  Broken machines aren't the worst of your worries. In fact, the worst of your worries is people 
 dying in your casino. The excitement gets to them, and they have heart attacks. Lots of heart attacks. 
 To counteract this, you need to build first-aid stations. The medics at these stations will scurry 
 over and try to help those in cardiac arrest, racing against the devil. Literally -- the prince of 
 darkness himself marches through the front door at the first sign of a heart attack, trying to 
 beat your medics to the dying guest. It's a ridiculous sight, and one that would be funny if it 
 didn't happen so often. A dead guest can't bet, and you'll likely lose money in the subsequent 
 wrongful death lawsuit.   

  Your medics will sometimes race to the scene on their own. Often, they'll just stand around and 
 you'll have to manually tell them to assist the ill. Most of your other workers will always act 
 autonomously -- janitors will walk around and sweep up the considerable mess, mechanics will fix 
 broken machines and tables, and cocktail waitresses will take and deliver orders. Strangely, security 
 guards don't ever seem to act on their own, and if a patron is robbed or a dealer catches someone 
 cheating, you'll have to instruct your guards to arrest the culprit. It's both inconsistent and 
 frustrating, as the game would have been much better off if you could have just watched your casino 
 run itself.   

  Something that should be hands-on, but aren't, are the games. It seems strange that you can zoom 
 in and watch anyone play blackjack or craps, but you can't play yourself. At least zooming in looks 
 fairly good. The graphics are a bit blocky and dated, but you can zoom, rotate, and tilt the camera 
 at will.   

  At least partially at will. The second worst thing about Casino Mogul is that it slows to a crawl 
 with only a small number of guests. Once you get a few dozen people through the door, even a button 
 click will take a fair number of tries to register. Trying to change the color of a slot machine 
 in a busy casino is almost pointless. As is trying to lay down carpet or decorate the walls -- there's 
 no option for doing large-scale decorating, so you must do it one tiny section at a time.      
      Death comes quick and often in your casino.    

  The very worst thing is the soundtrack. The constant ringing of slot machines and the endlessly 
 looping music are annoying at first, and they eventually become nauseating. You can't turn them 
 off mid-game, so you'll want to make sure to do it when the opportunity presents itself at the 
 outset. If nothing else, Casino Mogul may be a great simulation of actually working in a casino 
 and all the headaches it probably entails.   

  That the game has such significant problems is a shame. The premise is great, and watching your 
 patrons walk around, play your games, and complain about this and that makes for a fun time -- a 
 much simpler version of the amusement park simulation that obviously inspired it. But Casino Mogul 
 forces you to tread a fine line, never allowing you to make too much money or build too much. If 
 you're interested in the premise, you'll find some fun in building a huge, rather sparse, rapidly 
 deteriorating casino. And if you're smart, you'll do it silently.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (1 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: macacd
Rating: 4.2
Date: Aug 28, 2006 2:19 pm PT
Review:  In Casino Tycoon, you will need to prove that you have what it takes to create and run the ultimate 
 casino. The underlying idea is to maximise you profits by increasing you casino from a small card 
 room to that of a mega Las Vegas style establishments. You will achieve this through careful management 
 and proper placement of various unique gambling games and dcor. Your responsibilities also include 
 the standard management of salaries and attributes all the while keeping a look out for seedy thieves 
 trying to steal away your profits. All will come in to play when you try to achieve your status 
 as the next ultimate casino tycoon.
  
  Well that's a standard into for a standard game, and boy this is one standard game.
  
  Presentation
 
  Its all looks a bit like last years smash SIMs, bright and cartoon'ish colours, but throw in the 
 theme park style feeling bubbles and you get a well rounded presentation.
  
  Graphics
  If this game was out five years ago it would have been called revolutionary, but it now looks like 
 just another bland three dimensional strategies business simulation.
  
  Sound
  Sounds like a real casino, from the roar of the crowd around the craps and roulette tables, to 
 the constant noise of coins dropping and bandit's arms recoiling. Its as if you are really there.
 
  
  Playability
  When you first get the game you will find the game extremely confusing and frustrating, but in 
 time you will get use to the menu structure and find them easily navigated and as comfortable as 
 an old pair of slippers.
  
  Lastability
  Once you have completed the first challenge you pretty much have seen and done every thing that 
 there is to do in this game. The longevity is a big disappointment in this game, unlike many of 
 the other 'tycoon' games that have gone before this such as rail road tycoon and roller coaster 
 tycoon this has none of the mass options and game challenges.
  
  Best Bits
  + There is no chance of you losing any money.
  
  Worst Bits
  - Can't actually play the casino 
 games.
  - the sheer learning curve, its extreme.
  - Played one level, you've played them all.
  - You have handed over hard earned money for this 
 game.
  
  Alternatively
  No real ideas here. Perhaps actually going down the local casino if there is such a thing, I know 
 there isn't one on my doorstep, putting down your weeks wages and losing it all. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
