-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Casino, Inc.
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/strategy/casinoinc/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Apr 10, 2003
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 5.2
Critic Score: 6.2, 11 Review (s)
User Score: 7.7, 82 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Konami
Developer: Hothouse Creations
Genre: Business Strategy
Date:     Mar 26, 2003
ESRB: Mature

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Casino Inc. ends up being a game that's more complicated, and less fun, than it probably should 
 have been. 

  Ever since RollerCoaster Tycoon's phenomenal success in 1999, PC game developers have sought to 
 cash in on that game's popularity by following the same formula: developing modestly priced management 
 strategy games that let players run a specific kind of themed business, such as a zoo or a shopping 
 mall. British developer Hothouse Creations has tried its hand at this formula with Casino Inc., 
 a game that lets you build and create your own Las Vegas-style casino business. While the game 
 offers a number of surprisingly complex ways to manage your casinos, the complexity doesn't really 
 add any depth, especially since the game's interface is clumsy and inadequate. As a result, Casino 
 Inc. ends up being a game that's more complicated, and less fun, than it probably should have been. 

          You have to hire dealers for your tables, but you also have to hire a bunch of other staffers. 
     

  In order to build up a successful business in Casino Inc., you'll need to bring in lots of different 
 guests, including vacationers, high rollers, senior citizens, teens, and socialites. In order to 
 accomplish this, you need to fill your casinos with exciting gambling games (such as blackjack, 
 poker, roulette, and baccarat) staffed by experienced dealers, and you must also add amenities 
 such as restaurants, bars, live shows, dance floors, and video arcades, in addition to decorations 
 and fixtures like potted plants and cordon ropes to grab your guests' attention and keep them moving 
 along the casino floor. In order to keep them coming into your casino, you'll need to provide your 
 guests with transportation from the local train station.  

  You'll also need to hire a dedicated staff to man your gambling tables, serve food and drinks, 
 screen out undesirables, clean up messes, repair your broken slot machines, and "entertain" your 
 guests by serving as professional escorts. While you can hire highly experienced five-star staffers, 
 these employees will generally cost much more money to employ, and all employees demand additional 
 pay raises as they continue to work with you. You'll also need to keep an eye out for saboteurs 
 that rival casinos will send to steal from your tables or beat up your guests, though if you can 
 successfully capture them with your security staff, you can hire them on yourself. You'll also 
 need to publicize your casino by advertising it prominently in various parts of the city. You'll 
 also eventually need to expand your business both by building additional floors in your current 
 operation, which can be used as either more casino space or as hotel rooms for weary guests, and 
 also by buying up new buildings in other parts of town to use as completely new casinos.  

          You'll have to jump between your keyboard and mouse regularly to get anything done.    

  If all this sounds complicated, it's because it is. And unfortunately, Casino Inc.'s interface 
 isn't up to the challenge of helping you perform all these actions quickly and easily. The game's 
 3D camera is locked at four different zoom levels, only one of which is practically useful, and 
 instead of being able to use your mouse to rotate the camera as you can in so many other 3D games, 
 you can rotate your view and zoom in/out only by reaching for your keyboard and using the Insert, 
 Delete, Home, End, and Page Up and Page Down keys. And nearly every one of Casino Inc.'s options 
 is buried in a menu of tiny icons in all four corners of the screen that can be accessed only by 
 clicking on the correct icon with your mouse pointer. Unlike in most management games, where you 
 can build businesses by buying and placing fixtures, you can't even quickly and easily move or 
 get rid of objects; you must open up a specific menu by clicking on a tiny icon, then click on 
 the "move" or "sell" icon. So, you'll often find yourself in the odd position of switching between 
 using only your keyboard to control the camera and only your mouse to open menus, rather than using 
 both simultaneously as you may have become accustomed to with other PC games.     

  Because Casino Inc. buries so many important options in various menus, you'll rarely be able to 
 react quickly to any important changes or events in your casinos. If an enemy saboteur starts a 
 ruckus, your best bet is to immediately pause the game, scroll around until you can find the troublemaker, 
 manually select a bouncer on your staff, then right-click on the troublemaker and choose to either 
 beat him up (thereby converting him if the troublemaker is an honest-to-goodness saboteur) or kick 
 him out of the joint, though thanks to the game's occasionally unreliable pathfinding, you may 
 have to issue several orders to your bouncer before he complies. And unfortunately, since catching 
 enemy saboteurs in the act is the only way to hire some of your own, you'll always need to drop 
 everything to micromanage these events. You'll also need to pause everything to monitor your staff's 
 ongoing (and ridiculous) salary demands. As you progress through most games and attempt to hire 
 a large group of highly rated staffers, you'll find that no matter how often you give out pay raises 
 and bonuses, there is always someone clamoring for a raise and threatening to walk out and leave 
 your establishment understaffed.  

          You can hire "escorts" onto your staff. Unfortunately, you have to micromanage them, like 
 all the rest.     

  Considering that Casino Inc. eventually lets you open and run several large casinos at once, you 
 might expect it to be a large-scale strategy game that lets you, with good advance planning and 
 occasional maintenance, sit back and watch the cash roll in as your casinos essentially run themselves 
 (with occasional guidance) . Unfortunately, because of important concerns like catching saboteurs, 
 monitoring your staff's salary, and keeping on the good side of the cops, you'll need to constantly 
 micromanage each casino, and you can't do this effectively with the game's clunky interface.  

 
  According to the game's manual and box, Casino Inc. lets you create a Las Vegas-style casino from 
 the 1970s, though you wouldn't know that about the game by looking at it. Casino Inc.'s graphics 
 are bright and colorful, and they don't look especially bad at all; the game's simple 3D graphics 
 do a good job of creating the big cities in which your casinos are located, and they also do a 
 decent enough job rendering onscreen characters. Both your staff and your guests are short, bigheaded, 
 cartoonlike characters with exaggerated features, though your staff dresses in uniform, and your 
 guests dress in straightforward suits, dresses, and T-shirts, and no one looks, acts, or sounds 
 like they're from the '70s.  

  Casino Inc. doesn't sound like it's from the '70s -- or from any other particularly exciting decade -- either. 
 The game's background music generally consists of soft, ambient techno tunes, unless you build 
 a dance floor or theater in your casinos to provide music, in which case the game sounds like rather 
 subdued Muzak versions of disco and jazz music. But you may not pay much attention to the music, 
 since every game of Casino Inc. is punctuated by an almost continuous stream of voice samples, 
 including your staffers greeting guests, your guests loudly proclaiming what they think, and the 
 game's announcer frantically and constantly informing you that "the staff are demanding a raise!" 
 You may find the strident comments of elderly guests, who are the loudest guests in the game for 
 some reason, to be especially annoying when you hear four of them stammer, "You're only as old 
 as you feel," in unison for the hundredth time. You can set your doorman and bouncers to keep seniors 
 out of your casino, but this setting doesn't actually work too well, even with the most highly 
 ranked staffers money can buy.  

          Hey bouncer, I thought I told you to keep the senior citizens out!     

  The fact that 
 this and other features don't actually work as they should doesn't really help Casino Inc., a game 
 that already suffers from inconsistent sound and a problematic interface. Though Casino Inc. does 
 occasionally let you feel like you are running a bustling casino, all too often, it interrupts 
 the action with an important event that you'll have to micromanage, and you'll be reminded all 
 over again of just how inadequate the game's interface is. Considering that the game has only a 
 handful of single-player scenarios (though each is fairly long) and no free-form sandbox building 
 mode, it seems unlikely that you'll be able to get much out of the game once you're finished with 
 it.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (4 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: hrcek_cro
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 2, 2008 3:59 am PT
Review:  Game is soooooo good i can play it hours
  
  Game is soooooo good i can play it hours
  
  Game is soooooo good i can play it hours
  
  Game is soooooo good i can play it hours
  
 
  Game is soooooo good i can play it hours
  
  Game is soooooo good i can play it hours
  
  Game is soooooo good i can play it hours
  
  Game is soooooo good i can play it hours
 
  
  Game is soooooo good i can play it hours
  
  Game is soooooo good i can play it hours
  
  Game is soooooo good i can play it hours
  
 
  Game is soooooo good i can play it hours
  
  Game is soooooo good i can play it hours
  
  Game is soooooo good i can play it hours
  
  Game is soooooo good i can play it hours
 
  
  Game is soooooo good i can play it hours
  
  Game is soooooo good i can play it hours
  
  Game is soooooo good i can play it hours
  
 
  Game is soooooo good i can play it hours
  
  Game is soooooo good i can play it hours
  
  Game is soooooo good i can play it hours 
::::::

::::::
UserName: casinoinc777
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 27, 2008 10:54 am PT
Review:  I think that Casino Inc. is better than Casino Empire and Casino Tycoon. In Casino Inc. you actualy 
 get the experience of the city your casino and you opponents'.
  But it lacks free play mode. Casino Inc. puts you in control of your casino and employees. One 
 ood thing about Casino Inc. is you actualy see your competitors' buildings' inside. The bad thing 
 about Casino Inc. is that there are traps inside the game wich isn't good for your casino. And who 
 would think Casino Inc.'s slogan is 'Who knew running a casio could be so much fun'. But the real 
 slogan in my mind is the longer they play the mre they pay. Now any ways the you get to choose 
 the city and your casino there is no unocking in this whole game and i mean whole game. Another 
 good part of the game is that there are 30 not so asy objectives to meet. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Faks
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 16, 2007 3:45 am PT
Review:  This game is very long with gameplay changes around there you at start you have a casino or cafe 
 then from another litel shop send you killers to kill all your worckers and make for you big mess 
 to pay with money there are still many usufuly stuff like killers and noise makers and others and 
 the thieves to earn money must kill must do evreting to complete your task to be worlds bigest 
 CASINO and best off all if you wana complete the game it can take a many hour in a one day and 
 many moths to finish it sow i hope try your best and enyoy the game and have some Luck !!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MajinBuXL
Rating: 7.4
Date: May 12, 2005 5:56 am PT
Review:  Casino, Inc. is a game where you have to build your own Casino and try to complete goals while 
 other facilities in town compete with you and steal your costumers giveing you a hard time. The 
 whole plot can seem very dull but it's actually quite fun. The opponents your going to face in 
 each city can hire cheats, troublemakers and hitman that will eventually enter your Casino and 
 cause mayhem. One of the few downs of this game is that it seems all of your opponents hired cheats 
 and troublemakers are just massed in your Casino, and you'll have to kick out or punish the ones 
 you find every minute or so, even though your opponents will compete with each other as much as 
 they compete with you. Another letdown i found was that when i tryed to give a higher payroll to 
 one of my staff members because he was unhappy, all the other staff members got unhappy as well 
 because they didnt get one too. So soon I just ended up fireing everybody and rehireing new staff.
 
  Other than that Casino, Inc is a solid game that is defenetly worth playing. The graphics are 
 pretty cheesy close up, but it compensates for the fact your facility will eventually get really 
 crowded once it starts to grow and you'll have to add more floors. It can be very addicting if 
 your a fan of the Tycoon genre but if your not you will probably stop playing this after you finish 
 the first city in the game or even earlier. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
