-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Casino Empire
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/strategy/casinoempire/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Oct  4, 2002
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 5.9
Critic Score: 6.2, 12 Review (s)
User Score: 7.1, 113 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Sierra Entertainment
Genre: Business Strategy
Date:     Sep 23, 2002 &raquo;  
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Casino Empire lacks a lot of features that you'd expect from any good management game, though it 
 still manages to be enjoyable at times. 

 Casino Empire is the first management strategy game from Sierra Attractions, the developer of the 
 popular Hoyle card, board, and casino games. It's a game in which you must manage one of eight 
 Las Vegas-style casinos and draw in as many gamblers as possible by decorating the exterior with 
 neon signs and fireworks and by filling the interior with different casino games and amenities 
 like restaurants and gambling rooms. It's like Infogrames' remarkably successful RollerCoaster 
 Tycoon, only in a casino, and unfortunately, it's not nearly as polished or complete, and the developer's 
 inexperience with creating this sort of game is pretty obvious. Casino Empire lacks a lot of features 
 that you'd expect from any good management game, though it still manages to be enjoyable at times. 
           Casino Empire lets you build a gaudy, bustling casino.    

  At a glance, Casino Empire looks extremely promising. You'll probably be intrigued by the game's 
 colorful appearance, its huge casino areas that you can fill with slot machines and card tables, 
 and what appears to be a conventional management game interface. The game has an event ticker at 
 the top of the screen that will bring important issues to your attention, and it has various buttons 
 and icons at the bottom and edges of the screen -- including icons that let you zoom your view of 
 your casino in and out -- to pull up various information menus, as you might expect. Just like in 
 RollerCoaster Tycoon, you'll have various objectives, like earning a certain amount of money, getting 
 a certain approval rating for your casino, or attracting a certain number of guests -- or some combination 
 of these and other goals. In order to maximize your cash flow and casino rating, you need to attract 
 lots of new customers (represented by tiny figures that pace the floor) and keep your current ones 
 happy by making sure you build restaurants, restrooms, and bars for them, and you can even keep 
 track of your customers' current moods individually. At all times, you'll be competing with two 
 other rival casinos that may send spies to your casino to rough up your dealers or dump garbage 
 on the floor, so you'll need to hire security staff to keep the peace, as well as various other 
 staffers like custodians, waitresses, and dealers.   

  Unfortunately, the game's interface lacks a lot features that you'd expect from a game of this 
 sort. For instance, though you can check on your guests' current moods, you can't lock the camera 
 onto any of them, or onto any of your casino employees, so you can't tell whether their needs are 
 being fulfilled unless you constantly scroll the screen to follow them. You also can't give your 
 guests orders or suggestions on where to go, and since they're quite stupid, they'll angrily leave 
 your casino in disgust after repeatedly complaining that they weren't able to find a restroom, 
 even though they'll pass right by three of them on the way out. You also can't snap your camera 
 onto any important events from the ticker, including when saboteurs from rival casinos are causing 
 trouble. When you've built up an extremely large, bustling casino, it's next to impossible to locate 
 each individual vandal because you can't quickly snap the camera onto either the event or the vandal -- instead, 
 when you're being attacked, Casino Empire turns into a very slow game of cat and mouse in which 
 you must manually direct your tiny guards to seek out each tiny, hard-to-see saboteur. Casino Empire 
 also lacks a minimap feature that could have been used to jump quickly about the map. Some of the 
 game's eight different casinos are huge (relative to the tiny patrons and staff, anyway) , and scrolling 
 continuously from one end to another doesn't cut it -- the best you can do is zoom out your view 
 and scroll, which takes an unnecessarily long time.   

  Though you'll occasionally come across some really problematic situations in which you're either 
 under attack by an unmanageably large mob of saboteurs or in which you're running out of money 
 much faster than you can earn it, you can still manage to complete the game's single-player campaign 
 without too much difficulty. That's because aside from the occasional difficulty, Casino Empire 
 is an extremely straightforward, even simplistic game in which you can win practically every scenario 
 by building some games, buying up some advertising, waiting for your existing games to make more 
 money, then repeating the process. In fact, you'll find that once you reach a certain plateau level 
 of hotel rating, clientele, and income, you can literally sit back and twiddle your thumbs until 
 you win. Casino Empire isn't a deep or even challenging strategy game by any means, but there's 
 certainly something relaxing about having a bustling, colorful casino full of happy patrons and 
 bright, flashing slot-machine lights while the money keeps rolling in.           You'll meet tongue-in-cheek 
 parodies of celebrities on the strip.    

  Casino Empire doesn't look spectacular, though it does sound a bit better than it looks. You can 
 fill out huge casino lots that can look extremely active, thanks to Casino Empire's simple, colorful 
 graphics, but the game's plain-looking card tables, slot machines, decorations, and patrons that 
 would have looked a lot better had they been more detailed. Fortunately, Casino Empire features 
 fairly decent voice acting. Your employees and patrons will make short, occasionally witty remarks 
 when you click on them, and you'll also meet celebrity patrons and new casino bosses that hire 
 you on at the beginning of each of the game's eight missions -- they have more-interesting voices 
 that spoof well-known celebrities like Bill Cosby, Siegfried &amp; Roy, and Regis Philbin, and 
 they're good for a laugh or two. The game also has good ambient, jazzy background music that's 
 fitting for a casino, and though it also has a soundtrack consisting of songs licensed from Vegas 
 mainstays like the Brian Setzer Orchestra, these tracks are few and far between, and you'll be 
 able to access them only later on in the game's missions. The game also has a free-form sandbox 
 mode that helps extend the game's replay value somewhat, though it's still tough to justify the 
 $40 retail price.   

  Casino Empire was based on an idea with a lot of promise, and it's a shame that the game doesn't 
 really realize that potential because of gaps in its design -- like its incomplete interface and 
 its overly simple, straightforward gameplay -- and because of its less-than-impressive graphics and 
 sound. However, if you're more interested in the relaxing sights and sounds of Las Vegas than you 
 are in playing a highly challenging strategy game, you might want to take a gamble with Casino 
 Empire.    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (4 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: gun65
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jun 20, 2008 10:05 pm PT
Review:  ICasino empire is centered on building your own casino through a series of levels while beating 
 out other competition. You'll be woring for a mob type character who, if you prove yourself worthy, 
 give you a casino to manage. 
  
  You start out in a low end, no fancy, casino. You have to turn it around and eventually advance 
 to the bigger and better casinos. Throughout the game you have a wide availability of options open 
 to you. How strong the alcohol is, house advantage, payout rates. You may also hire thugs and such 
 to "ruff up" other casinos.
  
  As you advance further you gain more room to build more machines, bars, buffets and such. You also 
 gain access to more prestigious decor, hotel rooms, suites and machines. The competition can get 
 hazardous when they send their mobsters to break your machines or intimidate patrons.
  
  You will also get celebrities to come to your casino who can either hurt or help your reputation 
 by giving a positive review, throwing a party, or even getting married there. 
  
  all in all if your bored of city building sims casino empire is a good looking choice to get you 
 hooked again. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vaskaville
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 19, 2007 11:43 am PT
Review:  Okay error #1 when someone vomits most of the time their is no vomit splattered all over the floor 
 when someone vomits. Error #2 on the Solid Gold casino level in the regular mode well you have 
 to pay 5,000$ each month well once you pay 5,000$ and you have like 2,967$ to pay off and it's 
 already a month and you pay another 5,000 and a few months later your at 15,998$ in debt and a 
 month later you fail the game and that level is poorly made because I would rather have signed 
 all of that paperwork than pay 5,000$ a month to fail and game and even if you do conserve enough 
 money then their is hardly enough money to buy two craps tables. Error #3 sometimes when your rival 
 brings in their workers for a raid well one of them always has to get stuck in their path and won't 
 move at all. The graphics are alright but they could have used more advanced graphics than they 
 used for the production on the game. I would have to say this is the best game hoyle has ever released 
 even though their is a lot of errors in the making. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: realitypretend
Rating: 4.8
Date: Oct 2, 2006 3:01 pm PT
Review:  I know my reviews is like way late but I think that if someone made a Casino Empire 2, perhaps 
 the rest of the game would be with it. I only play the game with cheats because it is somewhat 
 okay then but still lacks alot. I think that if they actually put some time and effort into another 
 one, like more than five minutes, it would really be a great game to play. There is alot that could 
 be done to this game to make it more than meeting your goals and even in the sanbox mode it still 
 isn't really that fun. The game also seemed kind of short to me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 1293512935
Rating: 5.3
Date: Feb 18, 2006 8:01 pm PT
Review:  This game wasn't as fun as I thought it would be. I thought there was a lot more to the game, but 
 after I played it for a while and just buzzed through the entire game in a flash, I realized that, 
 its not much fun to buy something and see what it does. I mean come on, how much fun is it to watch 
 somebody play a game while you sit on the couch. Thats what this game is like to me. It can be 
 fun at times though if you want a quick game to entertain you for a while. the graphics on this 
 CD could also use some improvement as well ass the gameplay. I wouldn't reccomend this game to 
 anyone, to be totally honest. I think the game deserves at the most, a 5.3 out of a possible 10 
 points. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
