-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Catwoman
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/action/catwoman/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Jul 28, 2004
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 5.6
Critic Score: 5.0, 12 Review (s)
User Score: 5.0, 143 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: EA Games
Genre: Modern Action Adventure
Date:     Jul 20, 2004
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Catwoman attempts to deliver some Prince of Persia-like acrobatics, but it's dragged down by bad 
 control, weak voice work, and shoddy gameplay. 

  It used to be that you'd have to wait awhile to see games based on the big summer movie releases. 
 But these days, the simultaneous movie-video game release seems to be rapidly becoming the norm. 
 Electronic Arts, which has done some great work recently with its games based on the  Lord of the 
 Rings  movies, is now delivering a game based on the upcoming Halle Berry movie,  Catwoman . Catwoman 
 attempts to deliver some Prince of Persia-like acrobatics, but it's dragged down by bad control, 
 weak voice work, and shoddy gameplay.  

          Halle Berry turns in a weak voice performance in Catwoman.     

  Catwoman puts you 
 in the role of the former Patience Phillips. After a brief tutorial-like sequence that demonstrates 
 Catwoman's moves, you're shown a brief cutscene that is meant to reveal the mystical origins behind 
 Patience's transformation into Catwoman. This noninteractive sequence isn't really clear, but it's 
 still probably the easiest part of the story to follow. From there, you're never really given much 
 in the way of motivation. You're on a revenge mission to take down the people responsible for your 
 death (and subsequent rebirth as the cat lady) , though most of the cutscenes consist of enemies 
 running through doors to stop you or Catwoman gyrating around a bit while making a horribly hackneyed 
 comment about her surroundings, like, "Working the night shift? So am I." The dialogue doesn't 
 even qualify as campy. It's just dumb.  

  Playing Catwoman is a mixture of bad combat mechanics and a series of climbing and jumping puzzles. 
 Catwoman can climb some walls, she can hang and swing from poles, and she has a whip that can be 
 used to press buttons or grab onto distant poles for swinging purposes. She puts all of these moves 
 to a lot of use, because most of the level layouts focus on Prince of Persia-like acrobatic puzzles. 
 While this style of gameplay worked very well in Ubisoft's Prince of Persia, Catwoman's control 
 isn't designed as well, resulting in a lot of frustrating moments where you know what to do but 
 have to get the controls to cooperate. This problem is present in the console versions of the game, 
 but it's especially exaggerated on the PC. The keyboard controls aren't sharp enough to handle 
 many of the game's tasks, and portions of the game that require you to hit three keys at once can 
 cause chording problems. These problems vanish when you use a gamepad, but even here, Catwoman's 
 gamepad support isn't as responsive as the console versions' support.  

  Also adding to the frustration is an in-game camera that goes for stylish-looking shots instead 
 of usable ones. This makes combat a hassle since you'll get attacked by characters you can't see 
 very well. Furthermore, these camera issues occasionally make some of the levels -- usually parts 
 that you need to interact with somehow -- harder to see than they should be. This, combined with 
 the sometimes confusing level layout, means you'll be spending a lot of time in the game's first-person-look 
 view, which lets you scan around a level in search of what to do next. The proper path through 
 a level is marked by a scent trail that is only viewable in first-person mode.  

  The fighting in Catwoman is weak. Attacks are executed in any of eight directions. The combat is 
 rarely intense enough to require a 360-degree attack ability, so this scheme just seems wasteful. 
 If you're holding the crouch button, you'll kick. If you're standing, you'll whip or punch, depending 
 on how close you are to your target. You earn points after each of the game's levels. These points 
 turn into diamonds, and you use these diamonds to purchase new moves. Some of them, like a disarm 
 move that lets you whip guns and nightsticks from your enemies' hands, are very necessary. However, 
 most of them aren't really interesting or useful. Domination mode, for example, is yet another 
 Max Payne-style slow-motion effect. If the combat was challenging in any way, a slow-motion move 
 might be useful. But here, it isn't.  

  Another weird thing about Catwoman's combat is that it seems to go out of its way to illustrate 
 that none of your enemies ever dies from your attacks. When an enemy is defeated, he'll continue 
 to stand around, but he'll glow and stop attacking you. And if you knock an enemy off of a high 
 ledge, the game will often cut to a view of the enemy landing -- and then sitting up and holding 
 his head.  

  The gameplay leaves a lot to be desired. The graphics are a bit better than the gameplay, but weird 
 lighting effects and some heavy aliasing prevent Catwoman from looking great. The feline frulein's 
 model animates very well, and the game's environments all look decent. In what can only be described 
 as a creepy touch, letting the game idle for a while shifts it into a series of weird close-ups 
 of Catwoman, who writhes around like a bad stripper and occasionally licks her hands and winks 
 at you. These close-ups are dumb, but Catwoman is animated well and does a good job of showing 
 off her model quality. However, if you stare at her too long, you might find yourself trying to 
 stick dollar bills in your monitor.  

          The combat in Catwoman isn't interesting at all.     

  Like the movie, Halle Berry 
 plays Catwoman in the game. Her dialogue is sparse, and what  is  there is bad. Berry's attempt 
 at sultry instead comes off as silly, because practically every one of her lines is completely 
 over-delivered. Some will get a campy thrill out of it, but after you hear the same tired phrases 
 repeated a few times, it just gets lame. The rest of the game's sound is passable, although pretty 
 standard. Musically, Catwoman plays a different short clip of tense music throughout each level, 
 which might fit for combat but doesn't really mesh well with the climbing and jumping that represents 
 a majority of the game's action. The music occasionally fades down, though some more-suspenseful 
 tunes would have fit the gameplay better.  

  Catwoman is a mediocre game. The graphics are passable, and the rest of it has the feel of a bad 
 attempt to duplicate the acrobatic gameplay that made last year's Prince of Persia such a success. 
 But sub-par control and annoying camera work get in the way of this goal, making Catwoman a game 
 you'll certainly want to skip.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (6 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: 1_2_3lion
Rating: 4
Date: Sep 1, 2007 4:13 am PT
Review:  first this game have spoilers seconed this **** game you can not control right thired the **** 
 music is bad fourth the graphics are tooooo bad and you will will not like it it is tooo bad more 
 than you imagine and by the way this is the shortest reviwe i have ever wright before if you see 
 this game in a store do not look at this store again and it hasnt any fun no fun at allllll and 
 it every about 5 muints it crach my pc so promise me and do not try it ....
  and by the way the most important thing that IT IS NOT FUN IT IS TOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOO BAD TRUST ME 
 AND IT HAS SPOILERS 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kingrich06
Rating: 4.2
Date: Jan 20, 2007 2:04 pm PT
Review:  Making a video based on a bad movie gets you a bad video game. You would think with Batman getting 
 good reviews this would be a good game to have. Some developers get lazy, take an engine from someone 
 else and hope we will enjoy it. This game is awful. The graphics will lose out to games released 
 two years before this one. Sounds and voice overs are bland. The game play is annoying and I just 
 couldnt get myself to like it no matter how hard I tried. At least the movie had Halle Berry and 
 Sharon Stone in it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Master_G7676
Rating: 4.2
Date: May 6, 2006 10:33 pm PT
Review:  Cat Women
  
  Now i has not a big fan of the move but when i heard they where going to make a game i thought 
 ok maybe this well be good. WRONG
  
  OK now before i bash this game all to hell here are a fiew good point about the game. Well there 
 are cut sean with cat women in her skimpy clothing..... and thats about it. Well the graphics where 
 good the interface and camera angles SUCKED! The story has no originalaty and well it just plain 
 sucks. Simply the fact you dont have controle of the camera view and not to mention the fact you 
 do the same moves over and over again. I mean i saw batman and the cat women in the movie had better 
 moves.
  
  So is it worth the buy. I purchased this out of a bin at EB for $ 9.99 and i feal ripped off.
 
  
  My advice to you, DONT DO IT! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KingMeier
Rating: 1.5
Date: Dec 11, 2005 7:09 pm PT
Review:  This is a very disappointing game just like the movie. Combat for this game is horrible. In order 
 for you to kick you must be crouhing. When you are standing you can only punch or use the whip. 
 RUBBISH! The camera angles are painful; I am running into walls and other things because of this. 
 AAAAAhhhhhhh the pain. I can't say much for this game because I just couldn't play the game to 
 the other levels because of this inferior game compare to others. Even 16 bit games of the past 
 are better than this.
  
  Just avoid this game at all cost. Don't spend money or your time on this EA game. Read an interesting 
 book. That's what I did to get rid of the terrible experience of playing this EA Catwoman game 
 title.
  
  By the way, the catwoman costume sucks. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheSlanger
Rating: 6.3
Date: Nov 10, 2004 8:50 am PT
Review:  This is the kind of game that gives movie licensed games a bad reputation. What could have been 
 a great and innovative game is totally thrashed by an extremely bad control scheme and a camera 
 that makes you wish you hadn't started playing in the first place.
  The graphics are good and the animations are fluent. Some of the textures are a little bland but 
 otherwise the game looks great.
  The controls are innovative and the fighting system is intuitive. It doesn't take long to figure 
 out how to beat your opponents into a pulp.
  The game's biggest flaw is the camera scheme; when Catwoman moves the camera moves with her and 
 corrects itself whenever it sees fit, and you have absolutely no control over it.
  The game isn't that long but because of the camera it can take quite a while to finish. There were 
 a couple of times when I had to make at least fifty (no I'm not kidding) attempts to be able to 
 perform the task at hand. I remember one level where I was in a factory and the objective was to 
 reach the level above. The way to this was to scale a wall and jump onto a conveyor. From there 
 you had to get across the room by jumping from one conveyor to another and onto a platform on the 
 other side. Seams simple enough, and it could have been, if the camera hadn't decided to move when 
 you are just about to make the critical jump between the two conveyors. The result being a plunge 
 to the floor, a loss of health and a retry. Now I am a very patient man, sometimes too patient. 
 I don't get upset over little things. But this is really testing my nerve. You can imagine the 
 frustration when, in your tenth attempt, you make another death-defying leap only to find out that 
 you jumped in the wrong direction and you have to start all over.
  I played this game on the PC, I would like to try it on the PS2 to see if works better. Like Prince 
 of Persia did. I still haven't finished it on the PC but the part where i got stuck on the PC, 
 I finished on the PS2 with only one attempt, all because of the controls. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bucardo
Rating: 3.9
Date: Aug 24, 2004 9:44 am PT
Review:  This is no a game is a tremendous disaster. The controls are awful, the dialogue is silly and simple 
 and the angles of camera are all horrendous. Thankfully the graphics are right, buy I want to play 
 not to see the movements of Halle Berry. Ea want to compare this game with Prince of Persia but 
 I think that's imposible because POP is a great game and Catwoman is a game for forgiving.
  
  I hate this game and thankfully, I rented it. A game that have all but a game. A tremendous 
 failure for EA. I hope other great games of the company like BFME were better than this Catwoman 
 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
