-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Celtic Kings: Rage of War
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/strategy/celtickingsrageofwar/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Aug 21, 2002
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8.4
Critic Score: 7.8, 19 Review (s)
User Score: 8.2, 233 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Strategy First
Developer: Haemimont
Genre: Historic Real-Time...
Date:     Aug 21, 2002
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Haemimont Games has done an admirable job of bringing together two different types of games. 
 

 Diablo meets Kohan: Immortal Sovereigns in Celtic Kings: Rage of War, one of the more entertaining 
 cross-genre games to hit the PC in some time. Bulgarian developer Haemimont Games -- best known for 
 its work on Tzar: The Burden of the Crown two years ago -- has crafted a title that gives players 
 some of the best elements of both worlds. Neither role-playing nor real-time strategy fans will 
 feel shortchanged here, which is remarkable when you consider how hybrids of this sort typically 
 adopt a jack-of-all-games approach that leaves them master of none.           Larax handles some 
 quests on his own.    

  You might even say that Celtic Kings is the first true RPG-RTS hybrid. The game has all the qualifications 
 in both categories. Dual modes of play are featured -- one emphasizing a hack-and-slash role-playing 
 style, the other focusing on the base-building and resource management common to real-time strategy. 
 But each prominently features aspects of its counterpart so that both transcend the limitations 
 of their particular genres. The separate elements are blended together so seamlessly that it's 
 difficult to understand why successfully implementing this concept has eluded developers in the 
 past.   

  Adventure mode, the more role-playing-focused mode, is a solo, story-driven saga set during the 
 Roman conquest of Gaul. You play as Larax, a Gallic tribesman who pledges his life to the war goddess 
 Kathobodua after Teuton raiders destroy his village and kill his wife. It begins much like a traditional 
 isometric RPG, with Larax carrying out solo quests that take him closer to his goal of exacting 
 revenge on the Teutons. Larax himself is modeled much like a typical role-playing character, in 
 that he collects experience points and gains levels.           But on others he leads massive armies 
 into battle.    

  But things soon begin to shift. Although Larax starts off as a lone hero, he soon encounters his 
 fellow tribesmen. These horsemen, axemen, swordsmen, and archers can be formed into a small army 
 under Larax's command that benefits from his skills as a hero. Not long after you begin to collect 
 troops, the quests become more appropriate to a real-time strategy game. Instead of fighting a 
 few enemies and getting advice from tribal leaders, you're besieging fortresses and sacking villages. 
 You can arrange your troops into formations, split them off to build the catapults required for 
 smashing enemy fortifications, and so forth. The game does have tactical elements, though they 
 aren't very deep. You occasionally join forces with other heroes, for example, and must perform 
 flanking and feinting maneuvers in order to break through enemy defenses. Barreling forward en 
 masse is not an option, even in the early stages of the campaign. Resource management is also an 
 issue. Food must be sent from villages to military outposts, and peasants must be called in whenever 
 you want to raise troops for an army. Gold is collected and transported in much the same way.  
           Play as Imperial Rome in single-player and multiplayer.    

  The best part about the adventure mode is how open-ended it can be. As Larax's journey progresses, 
 you move across huge maps and never know what's coming next. On one map, you move through a series 
 of set-piece battles, slowly driving the Teuton invaders from your land. On the next, you're on 
 your own again, searching for a hidden druid grove that contains the clues you need to proceed. 
 The pace quickly blends the RPG and RTS elements in such a way that you never get tired of one 
 or the other. The appearance of the maps should also keep your interest. All the 2D isometric scenes 
 are drawn with a wide variety of terrain types that run the gamut from thick forests to large lakes 
 to scrub brush. The game's character animations are highly detailed, though they aren't especially 
 fluid. Larger-scale maps have also been handled well, and they bear a passing resemblance to those 
 in BioWare's Baldur's Gate RPG series. The color-coded dots representing friends and foes make 
 it a snap to use this screen when moving Larax and his forces long distances. Unfortunately, the 
 game's sound isn't as good -- some of the music is a bit overblown, and the game's sparse voice work 
 is provided by heavily accented actors.   

  In the single-player mode, you focus on building bases and turning out armies to beat up on as 
 many as eight computer-controlled opponents in skirmish play. It has some of the basic elements 
 of traditional real-time strategy games, with some new features. You can play either as the Gauls 
 or as the Romans in four game types based on elimination or time limits. All rules can be adjusted, 
 and opponents can be given personalities so that they play according to orderly, chaotic, or defensive 
 styles. Three difficulty settings are also available, so you can customize your opposition's intelligence 
 as well. These options are very similar in the Internet/LAN multiplayer portion of Celtic Kings. 
           As you can see from the map screen, some of Celtic Kings' areas are huge.    

  Whether you play online or offline, the hero focus is maintained, so you still have leaders such 
 as Larax with individual characteristics. In this regard, Celtic Kings' gameplay is similar to 
 that of Kohan: Immortal Sovereigns, and perhaps a debt or two is owed to the likes of Heroes of 
 Might &amp; Magic. Strategic concerns are on a beer-and-pretzel level, though that simplicity doesn't 
 make the game any less enjoyable. As in the adventure mode, food, gold, and peasants are the only 
 resources to worry about, and these items are easily transported from the villages where they're 
 usually found to the strongholds where they're usually needed. Food and gold can be shipped by 
 simply ordering in a supply mule, while peasants are ordered into service and trained for a specific 
 duty. Building types are equally straightforward, lessening management worries. The town hall is 
 command central, the tavern is used to govern population growth through its supply of food, the 
 barracks are where the six types of warrior units are equipped, the blacksmith is where weapons 
 are manufactured, the druid's hut (or Roman temple) produces priests who can heal your wounded, 
 and the arena is the hiring ground for heroes. Village structures are in place at the beginning 
 of each game, so all you have to concern yourself with is waging war and maintaining supply lines 
 to military outposts.   

  Celtic Kings: Rage of War is the perfect game for role-playing fans sick of repetitive hack-and-slash 
 gameplay. It's also the perfect game for real-time strategy fans sick of repetitive base building 
 and tank rushing. Although the game's overblown musical score, subpar voice acting, and frequent 
 typographical errors in the onscreen dialogue can get on your nerves, Haemimont Games has done 
 an admirable job of bringing together two different types of games.    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (5 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: wswedin
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 12, 2008 11:33 pm PT
Review:  I was a fan of Tzar: Burden of the Crown so I bought this game to check it out.
  
  It still has the whole rts/rpg thing done nicely, but instead of focusing on buildings, you don't 
 focus on them at all really, they are pre-built in pre-built fortresses... thus giving you time 
 to command your troops and make them, rather than maintaining a base. The population limit, is 
 very non existant, I had an army of 3000 before (it caused a bit of lag... on a very decent computer) . 
 Maybe a "bit" of lag doesn't describe it, but hey I was on max settings! The game goes like this...
 
  
  You start out, you have nothing but a fortress/stronghold thing, and depending on the size of the 
 map there might be some neutral strongholds also. You get gold from your fortress based on it's 
 population, you capture villages and have them tribute to fortresses to get food. Having units 
 inside your base costs food, and when they leave your base, they can starve so its best to send 
 mules with food.
  
  Food, will be your main concern in this game unless you are focusing on a small, specialized army, 
 instead of a zerg one of weak troops who will more than likely starve by time they reach your foe 
 unless you send a lot of food with them. I mean a lot. Buildings exist only to make units, upgrade 
 them (research to get them too) , and research upgrades/spells. The two teams are the Romans and 
 the Celts/Druids, they have another name but I forget. There are a lot less units than in tzar, 
 but as said before it is a different game, but still an rts/rpg. You can make heroes, which are 
 tough and level up, but what they are used for really is for carrying/using items and for grouping 
 your troops. You can assign 50 troops to a hero, and he will command them for you , so you only 
 need to select the hero and order him about.
  
  If you actually read all of that, that is what differentiates this game from others mostly.... 
 in the end still an rts, and not as good as tzar, but still worth playing.
  
  I recommend this game to anyone who is into the strategy part of an RTS and not just spamming the 
 "best" unit or using super powers to wipe out your foe in one fell swoop.
  
  I also recommend this to Tzar fans! Enjoy! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rtsperson
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 7, 2007 7:37 pm PT
Review:  well what can i say about this game. one its awesome. rwo its awesome. 3 its even more awesome!!!!!!!!! 
 it was the first game i played still my favorite wish i still had it but it got scrathed up from 
 me playin it too much. with a great story mode mixed with rts was ingeneuos. i didnt even get far 
 into the campain the single player alone gave me enough fun beating the ai's. if youre reading 
 this and you like rts games and never played this go play this now. Although i dont just play rts 
 games i like amny other types this game none the less is one of my all time favorites. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dmac_the_King
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 29, 2007 11:11 am PT
Review:  This games was so great I played the demo and bought the game and its sequel. I would have to say 
 this was way better than Ages of Empire. Don't get me wrong ages was a great game. But when it 
 comes to war and strategy it has nothing on this. You build up forces, can make more than one army. 
 the battleground itself is great, lovely terrain, and when it comes to upgrades and battleformation 
 this game makes you feel like a general. Not only that but arny not around a fortess will starve. 
 This game really puts you in the driver seat. And I just started on the sequel and I can't believe 
 this game is so underrated it's a shame. In conclusion, if you love strategy games you would be 
 doing yourself a crime not playing this game. And for 20 bucks!!! KILL URSELF!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: StGunther
Rating: 5.8
Date: Nov 21, 2006 5:44 am PT
Review:  For what I paid for it it is a fine game. But, it is a knock off of the Age of Empires/Age of Mythology. 
 Unfortunately, it isn't what the Gamespot reviewer claims: the best blend of RPG/RTS, it just isn't. 
 Heros are a nice addition, but not, the be all and end all. Anyone who plays Age of games will 
 have an easy time of it here, alas, there is less functionality to buildings and villages. I'll 
 keep it around for a while and see if my kids pick it up, otherwise it is back on Amazon -- but 
 I'm gonna mark it up 100% hee, hee, hee. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: martlume
Rating: 8.7
Date: Sep 24, 2004 12:59 am PT
Review:  Celtic Kings brought a two-fold variety to the mundane game industry: it was developed by a Bulgarian 
 developer Haemimont Games, and its design is a rather bold departure from a typical RTS concept. 
 Namely, Celtic Kings combines real-time strategy with RPG elements, but doing it in a few key aspects 
 quite differently than for example Warcraft III. Firstly, instead of cut-scenes there is written 
 dialogue and storyline like in an isometric RPG, giving the single player campaign of Larax the 
 Gaul the according feel. Secondly, structures in CK cannot be built but only upgraded, thus the 
 player spends a lot of time exploring of the map and progressing in his quest - just like in an 
 RPG - instead of sitting in the same spot developing your base like in a typical RTS. Thirdly, 
 to reinforce unit development by experience Celtic Kings did not cut down on the numbers like WC3 
 but rather came up with some very smart controls: units can easily be sorted by health and experience 
 levels, and attached to a group leader whom they then will follow with every action until detached 
 (three army formations can be used) . More interesting than units' basic properties is perhaps the 
 food supply that each unit carries with him and that starts to decrease when out of base, ultimately 
 leading to the decrease of the health of a unit until on friendly ground. Another interesting feature: 
 your units can also train by fighting between themselves, which costs health but brings up their 
 experience levels. Besides fighting, you will also do some besieging in the campaign, using catapults 
 that can be constructed and manned by your infantry. Celtic Kings features just three resources: 
 gold, food, peasants, and sending mules between towns where a particular resource is lacking can 
 make for an exciting challenge. Minimap is very good for that as well as for overviewing soldiers. 
 Cities structures are simple: town hall is the command center, tavern grows population by food, 
 barracks equip peasants to produce six types of warriors (55 total types in CK) , blacksmith is 
 for weapons, druid's hut / Roman temple makes priests, and heroes can be hired and trained at arena. 
 Although all that goes a long way for a real-time strategy (war) game that can also be played enjoyably 
 in a single player mode, there remains an issue that bothers both players of today's RTS's and 
 hack and slash RPG's: why does it sometimes feel like you're like watching a TV, interferring only 
 to mouse-click your units to proceed or attack a new group that might all just as well be made 
 automatically? In addition to this typical plague of today's RTSs and RPGs, only sound in Celtic 
 Kings seems to be notably sub-par. Overall, Bulgarian developers have to be congratulated on outstanding 
 design of an RPG-RTS hybrid that is free of the continuous hacking and slashing of the first and 
 the repetitive base building of the second. Rage of War also comes with LAN and Internet play, 
 random map feature and a scenario/adventure editor.
  
  17/20 - Based on 3 HOURS
  3/4 PRODUCTION VALUES - Nice work overall, but has a slightly low-budget title look to it.
  4/4 
 ACCESSIBILITY - Great tutorials!
  3/4 PACING - Good but not perfect.
  4/4 INNOVATION - Exploration and dialogue like in RPGs, smart controls that enable to attach any 
 units to heroes and move the heroes instead (probably exists in WC3 add-on too) .
  3/4 IMMERSION - Nice campaign. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
