-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Championship Manager 2008
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/sports/championshipmanager2008/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Match engine provides a clear view on match days.
 ProZone tool is comprehensive.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Lack of match-day control.
 Many minor errors.
 Sound is a step backward.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Dec 18, 2007
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 6
Critic Score: 6.8, 8 Review (s)
User Score: 6.3, 150 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: GamersGate
Developer: Beautiful Game
Genre: Soccer Management
Date:     Nov 6, 2007 &raquo;  

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Championship Manager 2008 ultimately fails because it doesn't seem to know who it's aiming at.

  On the surface, Championship Manager 2008 looks to be an improvement over last year's effort, playing 
 at a higher resolution with a slicker-looking interface, but underneath this gloss, the gameplay 
 fails to satisfy. To live out the dream of being a football manager, you take control of one of 
 any number of club teams and -- simultaneously, if you want -- a national team, with the aim being 
 to win all the real-life competitions your team faces. Teams and competitions come from leagues 
 across the globe, with most countries having at least their top two leagues represented, and some, 
 such as Italy and England, having five. You pick the team each week, negotiate transfers, settle 
 contracts, oversee training, and have a certain amount of control pitch-side on match days.  

 
  The most obvious change on match days from Championship Manager 2007 is the representation of 
 the match itself. The 3D match engine is similar to last year, with players represented by coloured 
 vertical cylinders that jump, slide, and fall in a more convincing manner than before, but while 
 the engine is watchable, the play itself doesn't feel quite right. Little things, such as the regular 
 occurrence of goalkeepers scoring their own goals from corners, do make the games seem much less 
 real, and in a game such as this, it's those little details that make the difference.  

           The arrows provide easy-to-see indicators of current player morale.      

  The match-day 
 control itself feels very limited -- you can make substitutions, change formation, and plan moves 
 around set pieces, but you have very little control over your team's overall style of play. Rather 
 than being able to control individual aspects, such as speed, width, and the fervour of your attacks 
 individually, you are forced into simply choosing what your attack style to be or if you just want 
 the team to waste time.  

  The interface you are presented with when the match engine isn't running -- you only see selected 
 highlights -- is significantly different from last year. In CM07, you were presented with a wall 
 of constantly changing statistics, representing percentages of possession, tackles, and almost 
 anything else you could wish to see. However, now you are presented with static views of the two 
 team formations with each player's morale and current performance marked next to his name. While 
 this helps with making speedy substitutions because you know which players are underperforming 
 before going into the substitution menu, all the information is duplicated there anyway. This change 
 might make match days look friendlier for newcomers to the game, but the only real effect is a 
 loss of information for the player as the match goes progresses.  

  You can set tactics before the match, as well as during the game, but the interface for both is 
 clunky. During the match, you can drag and drop players in your squad to make substitutions. However, 
 if you're setting up your squad for the next game or playing with ideas for new formations and 
 line-ups, you can't do this in what is otherwise an identical-looking interface when there isn't 
 a match.  

  One other problem that occurs on match days is the limited options presented to you for pre-match 
 and half-time team talks. You are presented with up to four different -- but very specific -- options 
 of things to say to your team, but it is rare that one represents what you actually want to say. 
 For example, early on in one season, we beat struggling Derby County by nine goals to nil, but 
 on coming to play them again a few months later, we were only presented with pre-match team-talk 
 options suitable for a match the team would struggle to win. Sometimes these options are even more 
 nonsensical: Playing a local rival in a major cup final, for instance, you may be presented with 
 the option to tell your players that a draw would be as bad as losing for the fans because it's 
 a local derby, despite the fact that a draw isn't possible in such a game. Player options have 
 a similar problem -- you are presented with a number of vague options for player feedback on top 
 of the general team talk, but it is just as rare for these to provide the option for something 
 you would actually want to say.  

           Pre-match team talks give limited and sometimes bizarre options.      

  Derby matches 
 are also the cause of another of the game's more inexplicable errors. Playing as Chelsea, it's 
 disconcerting to receive a notice from your board telling you of its disappointment at your recent 
 loss to "derby rivals Manchester United." These niggling problems aren't limited to match days 
 and their immediate aftermath either. The messaging system through which the game passes you news 
 and updates on everything from transfer speculation to injury news is clunky -- even if you're in 
 your inbox, you need to manually scroll up to read new messages. There's also no way to mark messages 
 as read without reading the contents, meaning you have to open irrelevant items.  

  As well as being annoyed by the mode of delivery, you may take issue with the contents. Your physiotherapists 
 may send generic messages, appending the word "injury" to the end of every condition after every 
 single match even when this is completely unnecessary. Or you may receive messages informing you 
 of stories in the press about you or your players that you can't respond to, which all adds up 
 to an unsatisfactory experience.  

  The sound has taken a step back from last year. The few aural confirmations from the interface 
 have been removed, as have the half- and full-time whistles on match days. The latter change certainly 
 makes for a much less engaging experience, as it becomes hard to tell straight off when play has 
 actually stopped.  

  One of Championship Manager's major selling points for more hardcore fans should be the integration 
 of ProZone analysis tools, which also represent one of the game's only major pieces of external 
 branding, but even this doesn't really work in the way one would hope.  

  ProZone is a tool used by professional football coaches and managers to gain tactical insight by 
 looking at play patterns, groups of events -- such as set pieces -- or player data and comparing them 
 over the course of one match or several. The full tool is said to be used by many Premiership clubs 
 as an aid for finding and solving problems on the field that might not be immediately apparent. 

           The match engine does at least afford you a clear view of what's going on.      

  
 After each match, you are provided with the ProZone tool's key points, which can then be gone into 
 in more depth, but these condensed highlights are often unhelpful and seem to contradict the match 
 experience. It is not uncommon, for example, to be told that your opponents defended well, were 
 hard to break down, and hardly let anything through all afternoon when you've just beaten them 
 by a three or four goal margin. If you go deeper into the tool, you can analyse every single play 
 during the match to try to eke out a little bit more performance from your team, but the game rarely 
 becomes challenging enough for that to be necessary or rewarding.  

  Ultimately, Championship Manager doesn't seem to be sure who it's meant for, which is its problem. 
 The difficulty level and interface changes suggest it's aimed at the more casual player, but the 
 lack of licences, music, graphics, or decent contextual help system mean that it's likely to put 
 off all but serious fans of the genre. This lack of identity, combined with the in-game errors, 
 mean that once again Championship Manager is hard to recommend to all but the most fervent fans 
 of the series. While the game is playable and may provide a couple of seasons' worth of fun for 
 those who can overlook the above issues, Football Manager does a better job for anyone interested 
 in serious management games, while FIFA Manager may suit those with a more casual interest.    
 
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (10 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: bg4ever
Rating: 6
Date: Jan 4, 2009 8:28 am PT
Review:  Often, the rise and fall of game franchises can be equated with the fluctuating fortunes of footballing 
 empires. Just like Liverpool were once kings of English football, there was a time when Championship 
 Manager was the dominant force of strategic sports games. Things have changed for both in recent 
 years, the pendulum swinging in the direction of their better equipped rivals, leaving these former 
 leviathans scrabbling for the minor places.
  Since Sports Interactive took all but Championship Manager's name when it defected from Eidos to 
 Sega, creating the now utterly dominant Football Manager series in the process, the CM games have 
 been attempting the impossible - to catch up on over a decade's worth of development time. Beautiful 
 Game Studios has certainly had its work cut out yet, after a shaky start, the series has been making 
 steady year-on-year progress, with Championship Manager 2008 proving to be no exception.
  
  Instantly evident is how much effort has been put into improving the match day experience, with 
 a collection of helpful features making the game more accessible. A quality overlay displays the 
 fitness and confidence levels of your players during matches, providing a visual prompt when individuals 
 begin to flag or drop their heads. This overlay also provides constant updates as to how your opponent 
 is tweaking their formation and tactics, which is particularly helpful when watching a match in 
 highlights mode rather than in real-time.
  It's simple yet helpful additions such as this that are indicative of the game, with levels of 
 player feedback and information more readily available throughout, including a collection of excellent 
 pop-up pointers that provide a wealth of at-your-fingertips information. CM2008 is also effortlessly 
 navigable, with essential shortcuts ensuring that you can spend minimal time searching for the 
 correct screen and maximum time chasing new recruits and honing the skills of your squad.
  
  While training is perhaps a touch simplistic, transfer negotiations have been bolstered, displaying 
 greater flexibility and improved negotiation features that see you haggling over the finer points 
 of payments and contracts. If you opt to use the Club Benefactor feature, you'll have oodles of 
 money to spend in the transfer market which, despite its increased depth, still allows for some 
 unrealistic yet satisfying player purchases 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fandom888
Rating: 6.5
Date: Sep 13, 2008 10:16 am PT
Review:  Championship Manager kicks off the 07-08 soccer season, this time lacking completely the sense 
 of a soccer management game.
  
  ProZone analysis remains for a second year in the game, making it easier for you to set up your 
 tactics depending on the opponent's lineup. But another problem which remains in the game for years 
 is the limit of the moves you cand do while playing a match in order to turn the tide of the game 
 or change your style of play.
  
  The game offers a clear play engine, so you can see what is going on in the stadium.
  
  Finally, 
 the AI of the game is not that good, as the messages you get are the same all-time, while the sound 
 of the game is really dissapointing.
  
  CM 2008 is hard to recommend, and I personally would prefer FIFA Manager or Football Manager, while 
 these two games are for novice players who have just started playing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: king-geoffrey
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 9, 2008 5:35 am PT
Review:  People should really know what makes a soccer manager game good or bad .
  I found the 2007 version a total let-down.
  I expected much more but only got a half broken game.
 
  In this version however, they really made things work.
  The most important aspect of a soccer sim should be if you have a tactic like 4-3-3 with wingers.
 
  You would like to see the wingers outside get past there man and cross to your tall striker .
 
  They really made this work.
  Second what a expect of a soccer manager game is that you can transfer players in a good way.
 
  And again this works perfectly.
  So with two of the most important aspects right we get to the 3th part of manager gaming.
  That 
 is do you see improvement in your team/club.
  And again yes.
  If you win a lot of matches, the board will give you the right amount of money so you can improve 
 get better players etc.
  If you got a good scout and set him on a journey to some country he will get the best talented 
 players for your squad and you will see that 16 year old players improve in no-time and you can 
 use them for your first squad.
  Im from The Netherlands and my favourite club is Feyenoord.
  I am at my 6th season already and 
 highly addicted.
  I won the champions league in 2009/2010.
  I got 5 national championships on a row but still the game is very realistic.
  One year after 
 i lost in the group stage because i sold some important routine players.
  I lost in the Champions league final two years after from Man. U after extra time.
  (I don't like 
 this game because i won a lot its just that if you do the right investments you will see improvement 
 and that is most important.)
  If you would compare this to Football Manager the only thing i can conclude is that this is a more 
 casual manager sim.
  You can start this and immediately start playing.
  I played a lot of manager sims in my life and i have to say the score of 6.0 is not correct .
 
  Just try this game you will see that its great. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: loki_rj
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 24, 2008 5:49 pm PT
Review:  I can't tell how many times I've heard 'Oh, this isn't Football Manager' (aka World Soccer Manager) . 
 Of course it isn't, it's not supposed to be. People tend to look at this game with FM in mind, 
 and how shallow this game is compared to Sports Interactive's big seller.
  
  Get some things on your minds: It is shallow compared to FM. It is 'lightweight' compared to FM. 
 It's graphs are poor compared to FM, it's sound and lack of depth as well, are not even close to 
 FM.
  
  I play both.
  
  What's the problem with it? My laptop won't run FM, so when I'm out of town I can settle for a 
 quick CM game. In fact, how many times have we sat down in front of a computer for a 'quick FM 
 game'? The loading time alone makes it a burden.
  
  Championship Manager offers a quick dosage of Manager simulations. You play, develop youth, buy 
 ready-made formulas (who doesn't buy Jorda, or doesn't offer a new contract to Bojan at the beggining 
 of the game?) . You can do your own formations, you can make your team excellent with little money.
 
  
  There's nothing wrong with that.
  
  For heaven's sake, people, stop being so attached to how unbeliavably realistic FM is, this isn't 
 FM.
  
  Stop reviewing both games, look into this one alone. It's a game for quick, easy-access fun, that 
 will deliver enough satisfaction to make sure you return for a new 'fix'. It doesn't even come 
 close to being a simulation of the works of a Manager, but you're pretty way off if you think FM 
 does.
  
  I can buy McGeady, I can tell Eboue to f* off my Arsenal squad, I can nail Chelsea 4-0 at the Bridge 
 and I can win the league.
  
  I call that satisfaction. It isn't enough for you? Fine, go play FM. It's pretty fun as well. But 
 this is Championship Manager, a series that remains in my heart for being the first Manager simulation 
 I've ever played. I led Vasco da Gama (my team here in Brazil) to the national title. It didn't 
 evolve significantly since then. Calling it terrible?
  
  I call it old-fashioned fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: razzabazza
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 22, 2008 11:21 am PT
Review:  Contary to what other users believe, this manager game is phenomenal in what it can give a player. 
 In no way is it too hard, and it is only too easy if all you try to attempt to do is take the world 
 by storm and win every single match as a five-star team. To do this as a team you have raised through 
 the lower leagues instead gives you not only a greater sense of achievement, but you feel you have 
 seen why the game was actually created in the first place. The only fault is the lack of staffing, 
 particularly scouts and assistabt managers to train with to build squad morale, skill, fitness, 
 chemistry etc, when you manage an international team; as they play a huge role in finding decent 
 players with a club team, it is considerably harder to recruit players to play for their country. 
 In all though, just the sheer size of the game will envelop you into the world of a football manager. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jimmygee123
Rating: 1
Date: Jun 29, 2008 6:32 am PT
Review:  Yet again eidos or whoever is behind this pile of drivel manages to put another slice of plop on 
 my plate. Why oh why do they do this to me. They put you in a position where you need a degree 
 in physics to work out how to win. I understand they want you to build up your rep by taking on 
 lower clubs but surely as the player i should be given the option to play as my favourite club 
 and get some decent enjoyment out of it. No yet again all the desicions are taken out of my hands 
 and im forced to play as bumfluff F. C.
  
  So I spend about an hour setting my team up, making sure every man knows what they are doing. Does 
 it go to plan? Does it f***!! the player seemed more content putting it out for a throw in or letting 
 the opposition run past them. (I played as liverpool) I will never again play another championship 
 manager game. I should be allowed to play whomever I wish without the fear of getting thrashed 
 5-0 by every team in the league because" I'm not experienced enough" Games are games and should 
 be treated as much. I'm not a sore loser either, I can take my losses and my wins. But not one 
 loss after another. They should have named it throw in manager. Do yourselves a favour and steer 
 clear of this one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: I-am-Sephiroth
Rating: 6
Date: Feb 19, 2008 3:39 am PT
Review:  First of all let me say that this game has got many of the crucial things right. The database of 
 players is enourmous and the majority of the skills associated bith the players are accurate. Whatsmore 
 the information about the players is accurate and the game has a good match engine. The menus are 
 easy to use, the transfer procedure is realistic and the fincancial/scouting/training aspects to 
 make you feel like a real manager are all there.
  
  However, it lacks any kind of sounds element which (when 70 hours in) is sorely missed. There is 
 little or nothing to offer you in the way of graphics either. There is little or no control during 
 a match, you can change formation/tactics etc at half time but you do feel a little useless, and 
 feel you should have more matchday input.
  
  There seems to also be a strange habit of rediculous scorelines coming up, so far this season i 
 have won 6-4, lost 2-6 and drawn a game 5-5!
  
  Overall this is a nice game for the football purist with all the appropriate material needed, however 
 after a few seasons it becomes very repetitive and dull and you find yourself less interested.
 
  
  Football Manager 08 and FIFA Manager 08 offer more 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tieio
Rating: 6
Date: Dec 23, 2007 4:48 am PT
Review:  This game has its own good qualities, let's not get it wrong, there is much to like about this 
 game, too bad all the best features are also found in the counterpart game FM 08 and then some.
 
  
  With a real lack of ability to tell if players are ready to be promoted it made playing deep into 
 the game hard when fictional players start to come into the picture. Any person who knows little 
 about football will ultimately find this game to be too difficult to manage successfully, but this 
 is just one opinion.
  
  The speed of the game is good and this is the one thing it has really improved upon over previous 
 versions but it leaves so much to be desired, the things that can be found in FM 08.
  
  I always like to play both and this is the first season that the gap between the games has been 
 as large as it is, again, opinion. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: minimacca
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 30, 2007 11:12 am PT
Review:  The game and game play itself is really amazing it just seems to keep getting better every year. 
 you can mould players and teach them to play in new positions which is really useful when some 
 of your key players are injured! the match engine is great and the prozone analysis is remarkable! 
 for gameplay i would give it at least 9 out of 10. unfortunately the data lets the game down. there 
 are more and more made up players each year. some players are extremely over rated. some staff 
 are retired and one has been dead for a couple of years!!!!! the most dissapointing thing for me, 
 is that it doesn't have David Beckham or LA Galaxy. (either that or i am clearly blind)
  
  overall great game. realistic matches, bad data. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wee_ged_2005
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 15, 2007 11:14 am PT
Review:  Anyone that tells you any of the CM series is a bad game dont know anything about football managment 
 I think BGSResearch and Eidos done really well this year on the knew game it is of the highest 
 qaulity managment game in the world at this moment in time in my opinion I would trade FM for this 
 anyday and I bet whoever read this and actually takes it in will too.
  
  This is certainly of a high calibre the only doubt I have is the Graphics to be honest it is the 
 only bad aspect of the game and anyway who needs Graphics when your having fun ? Nobody.
  
  I still would give it a 10 if it weren't for the darn graphics but sadly it will have to take an 
 8.5 : (
  
  EDIT:
  I have decided that it will not take an 8.5 and will take a 10 as it deserves the 10 and let me 
 see this owns compared to FM so it should take a 10. :) 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
