-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Championship Manager 2007
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/sports/championshipmanager2007/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 A massive world in which to play.
 accurately re-created players and teams.
 ProZone tactical analysis.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Match engine still needs work.
 odd inconsistencies spoil immersion.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Oct 24, 2006
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7.6
Critic Score: 7.2, 9 Review (s)
User Score: 7.0, 196 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Eidos Interactive
Developer: Beautiful Game
Genre: Soccer Management
Date:     Oct 13, 2006 (EU) &raquo;  

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Beautiful Game Studios' third crack at the football management franchise shows further improvement 
 and an appetite for new ideas. 

  Championship Manager is a name that has become synonymous in the UK for over a decade with the 
 concept of a great, in-depth football management game. Originally developed by Sports Interactive, 
 the game has been the responsibility of Beautiful Game Studios (BGS) since 2004. Unfortunately 
 their initial attempts frankly weren't up to scratch but with the benefit of time and stability 
 under the new SCi-Eidos regime, the team has succeeded in building those early efforts into something 
 far more worthy of the CM brand.  

          Team talks and tactics can win or lose you a match.     

  This year's iteration is 
 undoubtedly the most convincing edition yet and gives you the task of choosing any team from a 
 total of 63 league tiers in 26 countries with which to find glory. What that glory might be will 
 depend on your choice of team. Chelsea, for example, would no doubt demand an excellent showing 
 in the English Premier League, as well as a more-than-respectable level of advancement in the Champions' 
 League. But if you decide to opt for the likes of Farnborough Town, which would probably just settle 
 for avoiding relegation from the English Conference South, a different kind of challenge would 
 await you.  

  But your first choice, once you've set up your own manager's profile, is to work out which leagues 
 you want to run and how much detail you'd like the game to go into. If you've got an older machine, 
 it'll help to keep the number of active leagues relatively low and simulate the rest, although 
 you can only take jobs from active leagues as determined at the start of the game. It's common 
 to choose the country you want to start in, as well as a few others, and it's possible to limit 
 the number of leagues playable within a given country.  

  Once that's done, and you've decided on a team, you'll be responsible for pretty much every decision 
 you can think of that a football manager in real life would make. First of all, you'll need to 
 think carefully about the players at your disposal and whether you want to mould a team around 
 a certain formation, or vice versa. It's important, especially at lower-level clubs, to spend some 
 time looking at the players' statistics -- of which there are many -- to see who might perform well 
 in any given position.  

  Of course, there's far more to take into account than bare stats alone -- the age, morale, and general 
 happiness of a player can contribute to whether or not he'll perform. And until you've played a 
 number of matches, it's hard to get a feel for a team that you don't know very well.  

  Fortunately, that's exactly what preseason is for, with a raft of friendly matches that will have 
 been arranged for you. These games are designed to give your players the chance to gain match practice 
 before the proper season begins, but also to give you the opportunity to experiment with formations 
 and tactical settings. However, it's worth bearing in mind that the opposition is likely to be 
 doing the same, so just how much valuable information you gather during this time is always open 
 for debate.  

  The hub of the game focuses around match day itself. When your team is due to play, you'll see 
 a list of fixtures onscreen, before being taken to the dressing room for the team talk. In CM 2007, 
 you have the opportunity to utter some words of inspiration -- or condemnation -- before a match, during 
 halftime, and after the final whistle. You can also talk individually to players, as well as give 
 an overall address or keep quiet if you'd prefer. Different team members will respond better to 
 different messages, depending on their personalities. A feedback area at the bottom of the screen 
 will give you some idea about how certain players have reacted to your comments. As you progress 
 in this way, you'll get an idea of how to motivate the various characters on your team to get the 
 best from them.  

  After that, it's on to the real action, and you can choose to digest the match in a number of different 
 ways. The game is played out automatically, without any intervention from you unless you decide 
 to make a tactical change. As in real life, once the whistle blows, it's up to the players. You 
 can view as much or as little of the on-pitch action as you like, but you'll usually want to stick 
 to the highlights -- near misses, red cards, injuries, and of course, goals.  

  When one of these highlights occurs, you can watch the match in a kind of 3D that's an approximation 
 of what you might see on TV. Should you so desire, you can also change the viewing angle. Although 
 players aren't represented realistically, as you might expect from something like FIFA 07, you 
 get a good idea of the movement and the ball and players.  

          The TV-style viewpoint lets you see passing moves as they develop.     

  On the plus 
 side, being able to see a game play out in this way gives you much more of a visual clue as to 
 where your team is doing well, or not so well, and it's certainly easier on the eye than CM's text 
 commentary roots. However, the drawback is that most people buying this game will be used to watching 
 real teams play on TV, and unfortunately, BGS still has some work to do on sharpening up some of 
 the player intelligence. There has definitely been an improvement made to the match engine since 
 CM 2006, but watching just a handful of games will present a myriad of odd decisions.  

  For example, on a number of occasions, we witnessed situations where a challenge would occur on 
 the edge of the area, which resulted in the ball trickling toward the goal and just past the post 
 as the goalkeeper and nearest defenders stood by and watched. This usually resulted in a corner 
 to the opposition -- despite the fact that there was ample time and opportunity for one of our team's 
 players to rescue the ball.  

  On another occasion, we managed to score from a free kick that was taken midway in the opposition's 
 half. Curiously, most of the players on the pitch were huddled about 15 yards from where the kick 
 was being taken, while a lone pairing of striker and defender stood on the penalty spot. The ball 
 came in and was nodded home by our striker -- the oddest-looking attack-free kick we've ever seen. 
     

  In terms of the instructions you can dish out to players, there's a really nice level of depth, 
 although not a great deal on that front has been added for CM 2007. As previously, you can set 
 free kick, corner, and penalty takers; assign the captaincy; and tell players your preferred attack 
 or defence options. One thing that is new in CM 2007 is the opposition interaction board, which 
 allows you to give your team instructions on how to treat the other team members.  

  Perhaps there's a player you think is temperamental. In that case, you can tell your players to 
 wind him up. Or maybe there's a wing back who is a little low on confidence. With the underconfident 
 wing back, you can get your team to try to beat him with the ball more often. You can even target 
 an opposition player for rough treatment, although if you're not careful, this can end in yellow, 
 or even red, cards against your players who have won.  

  When the match is played out and you've congratulated or commiserated with your players, it's back 
 to the main screen to start the process all over again. While the transfer window is open, you 
 can buy or sell players -- providing you have the budget -- with a massive number of clubs from around 
 the world. Player names are accurate as of the European transfer window at the end of August, and 
 thousands of players from each of the leagues and clubs represented have been re-created.  

          ProZone -- a powerful, if confusing, tool for analysis.     

  One of the major additions 
 for CM 2007 is the licensing of ProZone technology, which is an extremely powerful tool used by 
 real-life managers to assess the performance of players in a match. It tracks the movements of 
 the football and players on both teams and can, therefore, break down a match into its component 
 parts. Once you've played a game, you can view it in the ProZone tool and go into a great level 
 of depth in assessing what went right, or wrong, with your team's performance.  

  You can opt to see all of the passes made in the match, those that were successful, or those that 
 led to goals, and you can even replay the entire match while watching as specific events unfold. 
 You might find, for example, that while your wingers are getting plenty of the ball, not enough 
 of that is translating into chances on goal. Once you look in ProZone, you may discover that it's 
 because too few of your crosses are being met by your strikers, and from there, you can decide 
 to take one of a number of actions. Perhaps your crossing instruction is set too high for forwards 
 that aren't good in the air. Maybe your wingers need more training on crossing. Or perhaps it's 
 just an indication that the opposition defenders were extremely good at clearing the ball.  

  As in real life, it's probably a combination of factors, and there's no one answer that will 
 suddenly have you scoring from crosses all the time. Much of the art of football management can't 
 necessarily be defined so easily, which is maybe why we find the sport so fascinating in the first 
 place.  

  Unfortunately, while the ProZone tool is a comprehensive one, there's not enough explanation of 
 the different functions, and you'll spend a long time trying to work out exactly what is significant 
 from what is trivial. With some development, it could become a very compelling tool. But because 
 other parts of the game yield much more of an impact than hours of patient, dedicated match dissection, 
 most players will probably gloss over it.  

          In-depth training schedules allow your players to hone their skills.     

  One of those 
 areas is the aforementioned team talks, which offer you three stock comments on each occasion. 
 In theory, your choice is supposed to be among an encouraging message, a damning critique, or a 
 fairly steady note of praise. In practice, too often the lines are rather similar and don't represent 
 the style of management you'd like to convey. In such cases, while saying nothing is an option, 
 you limit the usefulness of such a talk.  

  In terms of the long game, CM 2007 has a massive amount to offer. With the sheer number of teams 
 you can control, as well as the option of international management, the game is almost infinitely 
 replayable during the course of a real-life year. Manager contracts are important in the game, 
 and your success -- or lack thereof -- will often dictate the path your manager takes through the world 
 of football. Regardless of how well you do, there's always something else to achieve or a new challenge 
 to be found elsewhere, and that's one of the delights you'll find in this kind of game.  

  Something that's always been true of the BGS Championship Managers is the speed of processing game 
 data, and once again, the developers have done a good job of keeping the game moving. By grading 
 the amount of information in a game to your own computer's capabilities, you should be able to 
 plough through a season in about a week or less of dedicated play. Regular news items will keep 
 you up to date with what's happening in your virtual football world, and although this section 
 of the game has been improved, you'll still see a number of stock phrases repeated. Sometimes the 
 content of a message won't tally with the headline either. For example, one message title that 
 hailed good news for a defender's recovery from injury actually notified us of a lengthy layoff, 
 which was a little confusing. On the whole, the game is robust in this area, but sadly, there are 
 still some details that make the willing suspension of disbelief a little harder than we would 
 like.  

  Historically the CM series hasn't done too much to challenge the conventions that tell us football 
 management games place a low emphasis on presentation. This edition of the game does feature some 
 new skins, although most of them are pretty gaudy. On the whole information is relatively easy 
 to come by, once you're used to the layouts of the various screens. Sound too is pretty basic, 
 with some generic crowd noise which rises and falls with the ebb and flow of the game. Still, it 
 all does a reasonable job, and if it's never spectacular it's at least consistent and functional. 

  Overall, Championship Manager 2007 is a compelling and deep football strategy game. It has a great 
 breadth of options and represents a solid improvement on the last edition. However, while additions, 
 such as the ProZone module, demonstrate real ambition to try new ideas -- which is to be applauded -- a 
 sometimes scrappy match engine and a few other inconsistencies prevent this game from being even 
 better. With more work, BGS could soon resurrect the CM name to its former critically acclaimed 
 glory days, but for now, the game as a whole doesn't quite gel to perfection.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (14 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: saurum
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 14, 2009 4:54 am PT
Review:  Championship Manager 2007 (or CM07) is one of the best soccer/football management games ever. It 
 is very simple to play and you can control several areas from the team management, such as transfers, 
 tactics , staff , etc. The game contains a large player/club/staff database, which makes the game 
 very realistic. Plus you can play several championships from all the famous countries. Also the 
 players profile are very detailed, allowing you to choose your squad based on their skills. Also 
 a good detail from the game is the team and player talk, so you can raise (or decrease) the morale 
 of your players. CM07 offers a complex transfer system, where you can control how much will you 
 pay, if the player will get bonus for goals and other. Also the game viewing style is very curious 
 and efficient. But you'll need some knowledge about soccer. Even for veterans the game maybe sometimes 
 complicated. Also one thing that let me down was the lack of team shields.
  The Pros and Cons
  +Large Database
  +Easy Management
  +Easy Financial/Transfer System
  
 +Clean Design
  +Addicting Play
  +Runs Fast
  -Requires Soccer Knowledge (Not suggested for soccer newbies)
  -Lack of Team Shields.
  -Injuries 
 may ruin your team 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thegreatone1982
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 25, 2008 2:39 pm PT
Review:  i have played this game before and after the company spilt with edois, and to me not alt has changed, 
 but in a good way, its easy to play and if u put ur team in a certain formation u will start scoring 
 a ton of goals, but this site has loads of tips on what young players to buy haha.
  
  this is a gam u can keep playing for 2-3 years and still be content with it
  
  l highly recommend 
 it to any young football fan (or ny old armchair fans 
 
  
  just look up on this website for the young players to buy, or use ur own brain, which is what i 
 did, with 60/40 results haha. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: godiba
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 12, 2007 10:29 am PT
Review:  Es un juego muy entretenido, pero falla pasados unos a&ntilde; os, las finanzas no quedan claras, 
 vendes y no recibes lo mismo para poder contratar.
  Pero el juego ha mejorado bastante en lo que a velocidad se refiere. Se puede jugar mas partidos 
 en menos tiempo.
  Quizas podria tener mas importancia el entrenamiento y tomar decisiones en la construccion del 
 estadio, contratacion de auspiciadores... las finanzas en general.
  Tambien podria haber mas ingerencia en el desarrollo de los juveniles, que los entrenadores ayudantes 
 recomienden jugadores promesa.
  Solo he jugado el de PC, me imagino que el de consola debe ser mas rapido en cargar. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 103gary
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 4, 2007 1:49 pm PT
Review:  Championship Manager 2007 has to be the best soccer management game ever kicks ass takes up so 
 much time even though its simple to play but its brillant it also has loads of stats on players 
 and teams which is good because you can actually build a team and sell players. This game also 
 has a good transfer system if you can call it that and although there is 3D graphics it is still 
 a good game to watch when you play matchs .10 out of 10 hope the next one is even better because 
 it will hopefully be as addictive as this one 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chromearrowz
Rating: 6.4
Date: May 22, 2007 1:42 pm PT
Review:  Championship manager is a long running series of football managing games. One every season. The 
 earliest one i can think of is for the 99/00 season. Bassically make a profile, control your favourite 
 team and win as many trophies as you can.
  
  With Sheva playing for chelsea and Berbatov for Tottenham CM 2007 is really up to date. I recomend 
 before you play it you read some of the instructions as the game can be confusing, However, if 
 you have played a CM game before it should be easy to get the hang of. ]
  
  The best new feature of the game is called club benefactor. This gives the club you manage a mega 
 rich chairman. With Newcastle i got 44 million to spend. Think of how much you would get with Chelsea 
 or Man United.
  
  The game interface looks incredibly boring, it is. However, get use to it. There is hardly any 
 soud apart from a click when you get mail and crowd noise in matches. Therefore i recommend music.
 
  
  The match screen, is much better than the normal screen with the chance to watch the match with 
 some subuteo style people, watch the up to date statistics or just watch the commentary,
  
  Once this is done, another new feature comes into play. Pro zone (very good for serios managers) . 
 This lets you see where your team passes the most. Shows you their shots and cornering placements. 
 Then you can adjust your tactics accordingly.
  
  Don't forget, transfers, loans, player swaps, tactics, who from the reserves joins the first team 
 all depend on you. Make sure you look after your players otherwise they will hand in a transfer 
 request!
  
  Overall the game is good for football lovers. no one else. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dazzy_D
Rating: 1
Date: Mar 30, 2007 6:50 pm PT
Review:  I bought this game because it was going cheap on eBay (&pound;5) and I was getting bored with Football 
 Manager 2007 due to all the little bugs getting annoying after a while.
  
  Oh man, do I regret it now!
  
  At first glance its not too different from FM07, everythings 
 set out in roughly the same way. Spend a little time perusing the menus - setting up training, 
 tactics, team selection and checking whatever information you want to check and youll find theres 
 not much difference between the two games.
  
  That is, of course, until you go to play a match. The match engine in this game has to be THE worst 
 I have ever had the misfortune to experience (and I've been playing football management games since 
 the ZX Sinclair Spectrum was around in the 1980s!) . 'Players who are no more than 3 yards from 
 the ball with no-one else near them will turn and run in the OPPOSITE direction, defenders will 
 regularly punt the ball behind for corners despite no opposition player being in their half and, 
 on a couple of occasions, Ive watched in disbelief as my striker, on the edge of the opposition 
 penalty area, played a back-pass that slowly trickled out FOR A CORNER TO THE OTHER TEAM!?!?!?
 
  
  If the programmers and Q&amp; A/testers think this is a realistic portrayal of football, then none 
 of them have seen a real life match in their lives! The game highlights are so bad that if you 
 were watching a real life under-10s match being played in the same way; youd slap the kids and 
 tell them to sort themselves out. It really is that bad.
  
  The match engine isnt the only bad thing about this game. CPU results tend to be a bit on the 
 stupid side, as high profile teams (Chelsea, Liverpool, Barcelona, Real Madrid, etc) will regularly 
 get hammered by lower teams (FA Cup 3rd Round  Arsenal 0 Wrexham 7 ?!?!?) and transfers seem to 
 be totally random. Players will regularly switch to their teams fiercest rivals or move to clubs 
 much much lower in status than their current side (one transfer I remember was Cristiano Ronaldo 
 of Man. United being sold to an Italian Serie B team for &pound;15,000  realism or what!!!!) .
 
  
  The game is also waaaaaaaay too easy to play. I managed to force myself through an entire season 
 playing as Harrogate Town in the Conference North division (6th tier down in the English League) . 
 I won the divisional title, winning EVERY league game on the way, the FA Trophy and also got to 
 the semi-finals of the FA Cup beating Liverpool and Chelsea on the way. This game just reeks of 
 realism!!!
  
  I played this game for about a week and the ONLY enjoyment I got from it was when I frisbeed 
 the game disc against the wall and watched it disintegrate into a couple of dozen pieces. Do NOT 
 buy this game! Do NOT download it illegally and waste a blank CD/DVD on it. Do NOT download it 
 even if it becomes freeware. In fact, if the C. E. O. of Eidos Interactive comes around to your house 
 and offers to PAY YOU to play the game  give him a slap, laugh at him then slam the door in his 
 face. This game sucks BIG TIME!
  
  
  
  PROS: - erm. need a moment here.. er um. well, you dont HAVE to play it and er. lets see 
 um... erm. nope sorry. Thats all Ive got.
  
  CONS: - Match engine is horrendous. CPU results are unrealistic, transfers are just stupid at times, 
 way too easy to win, wastes space on your hard drive, you have to buy it to play it, it robs you 
 of your precious time when you could be doing something more fun like sitting around doing absolutely 
 NOTHING and it will probably cost you a few pence/cents in electricity while playing.
  
  
  
  In case you havent guessed yet, I do NOT recommend this game to anyone. Id rather have 
 the skin peeled from my body then be forced to play this garbage again! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pordetroit
Rating: 7.9
Date: Jan 30, 2007 6:43 pm PT
Review:  The sound is horrible, if you 're a CM's fan u know that CM always have bad sound. The gameplay 
 is perfect, all that you want. Well, it has all the leagues you need to play, new England divisions, 
 new skins all
  You have to buy it because its less difficult than FM, doesn't need a great computer and centers 
 in the tactical not in another things.
  Here if you want to be a suberb manager, you have to have good tactics, win tournaments, and over 
 all things you have to be patience.
  Focus on the young players, good prospect, make good negociations, know how and when u have to 
 sell players and the price.
  I recommend to buy all the youngplayers you can, grow up and sell it in a great price.
  The best: 
 centres the tactics, negociations and gameplay
  Bad: sound and I prefer CM06 skin 
::::::

::::::
UserName: reedler1234
Rating: 4.6
Date: Dec 25, 2006 3:10 am PT
Review:  I bought this game thinking that it would offer a more realistic experience than the last game, 
 and that it would be more deep than the previous one and i was hoping that i would like this one 
 better than Football Manager 2007 and my gosh i was wrong.
  
  This is almost exactly the same in terms of depth and control over the players as the last one, 
 except there is prozone which isnt all that useful unless you want to see who scored or whatever, 
 but its a tool which is unused almost all of the game, it serves no real purpose.
  
  The interface looks a bit better and is easier for newcomers to get to grips with which is good 
 and it has the same sound with every click like it always has but the matches are just too unrealistic 
 and inconsistent. Sure you can beat the team which is top of the league with your best team but 
 then the next week you can get battered by a lower opposition when you field your strongest team 
 which is unrealistic not because it happens once or twice because anything can happen in football 
 and this happens in every game in championship manager, you winning has nothing to do with your 
 managerial decisions or your prematch team talk, its more luck than anything else.
  
  Also signing big name players is waaaaay to easy whereas football manager is damn near impossible 
 which makes it so real and FM has feeder clubs and a deeper database and more options in terms 
 of match preparation and is completely the better management game. Dont buy this unless you want 
 a weak management experience, get FM, plleaase get FM 07 championship manager is inferior. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: liverpoolraj
Rating: 6.2
Date: Dec 3, 2006 6:37 am PT
Review:  This game is predictable. When you have a match and it gets to a certain part of the game you can 
 tell someone is going to score. This is boring and dull. Some of the player stats are unrealistic 
 and the same thing happens every season. There are a few nice features like talking to the players 
 although nearly every match you get the same words. The most exiting part is trying to buy the 
 best players. It is all a bit too easy. I won everything with Liverpool on the first season. I 
 have had to go to a lower down club to get some challanges. The sound is annoying withthe crackles 
 of the crowed witch sounds nothing like a crowed. It is a poorer game compared to Champoinship 
 Manager and it needs alot of work for next year. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: -_-III
Rating: 6.3
Date: Nov 3, 2006 7:38 am PT
Review:  If only it does not have to rival with FM2007 if not it would have been given a better grade.
 
  
  Navigation
  CM07 navigation is fantastic, most screens are accessiable within 2 clicks. The right click short 
 cut is a blessing which allows u to travel to screen you mostly visit. However be warn of backscreen. 
 It works abit differntly from FM. For example a player attribute screen is different from his histroy 
 screen. A back space from histroy screen will take you back to the attribute screen unlike FM which 
 consider the 2 screen as 1.
  
  Comprehensive
  One of the most important expect, the joy of finding a wonderkid. Sadly CM07 is not as comprehensive 
 as FM. When i started italian league, it doesn' t even have Freddy Adu. And that pretty much explain 
 it, it just lack a lot of player for you to explore .
  
  Training wise it blows FM away. With the detail training of what type of traing you wish your player 
 to do in CM07 pretty much like those good old CM04. But to be honest I don't really cares, never 
 touch it.
  
  Match wise we will have to touch on Pro-link, a system used by professional managers, providing 
 detail analysis of what went right and wrong. But well this is another option which is too comprehensive 
 and I wouldn't use it unless my bread and butter is on the line... It will take ages to finish 
 to a season.
  
  Lastly it can provide player rating up to a scale of hundred instead of the traditional 20.
  
 
  Realistic
  Now for players status, it really bugs me as to how players like Aggar and Oliver Kapo has GOD-LIKE 
 state in just the first season. I am sure they might become player of that calibre in given time 
 but by no way they are that cool. Likewise some better players will seems to have lower state.
 
  
  As for transfers it is easier to see player at a higher price but at the same time players are 
 also sold at reasonable price, Messi cost around 35mil no 60mil like in FM07.
  
  AI
  This is something that is really annoying. Players will start complaining when you just rest them, 
 even when they only miss out on 3 or 4 match in a season they will whine that you are not playing 
 them enough. After 2 match of rating 8 or above, if you put them on sub bench they will also complain.
 
  
  Speed
  Starting and loading of game speed are decent but the match seems to flow a little too fast. But 
 while passing through days there isn't really much of a loading time as you are still able to navigate 
 and read mails etc.
  
  Graphic
  Overall the games seems empty. But who cares about graphic when it comes to game of this gender. 
 But something that really bugs me at the start is playing player and substitute player. The colour 
 could be confusing esp for those playing club with dark jersey. For Juventus, active players are 
 black while non-playing are yellow. The colour can somewhat confuse who are your active and who 
 are not.
  
  Sound
  Nobody cares but if anything it does have a ping sound when you got mail. So thats a thumbs up.
 
  
  Last Note
  CM07 is inferior to FM07 thought overall it might not lack the comprehensiveness in most aspect 
 but it does lack wide pool of player and realistic of state. And unfortunately the comprehensiveness 
 fall into the region that nobody cares. One of the main reason i am sticking to FM07 should be 
 attributed to the superior AI emotion of FM compare to the dumb AI of CM. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KirkFaulkner
Rating: 1.9
Date: Oct 24, 2006 11:20 am PT
Review:  This has to be the worst footrball management game iv ever played!! Its slow as hell it looks half 
 finished, basic isnt the word for it there are words missing from sentences. Een on the very basic 
 very boring main menu. Choice: New Game, Play Saved,... ect iv come to want a little more over the 
 years, like Play Saved GAME or LOAD Saved GAME. Now this is a small matter but from the start ya 
 thinkin, hold on a minute is it all here? Its layout is God awfull!
  its just so far behind Football Manager that it cant even see it anymore, and if it dont get any 
 better Premier Manager 94 on the Mega Drive will be passing it by! If you ask me PM is a hell of 
 a lot more addictive than this pile of scrotal discharge Eidos has palmed off on us.
  SHAME ON YOU EIDOS SHAME ON YOU!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kingluis10
Rating: 7
Date: Oct 21, 2006 6:10 am PT
Review:  I got this game instead of FM this year as i found last FM too hard and too predictable and I have 
 to say this game is really good, it's very enjoyable and most results are realistic, it may not 
 be as detailed as FM but it's still very playable and will last for a good year.
  
  People who say it's too easy, try going a lower league club and then say its easy, if you go Chelsea, 
 Man u etc then yes it's going to be quite easy, that's only normal isn't it?
  
  This is a very good game, and is not a million miles behind FM despite what people say 
::::::

::::::
UserName: -James-
Rating: 4
Date: Oct 19, 2006 12:55 am PT
Review:  I borrowed Champ Man from my friend after he told me how boring and utterly dissapointing it was, 
 and I decided (being a massive FM Fan) that I'd have a look. The first thing I noted was the user 
 interface. To be honest, it was easy to navigate and the squad lists were all perfect and up to 
 date. Good start I thought. So I'm sat down playing, with my general 4-4-2 formation like I use 
 on FM with Liverpool. 2 friendlies later I realize that I can't score goals. I change it to 4-3-3 
 I'm now in November and haven't won a game less than 2-0 in any game since.
  
  Firstly, the commentary is ridiculous. It goes from a corner to Liverpool, instantly to a corner 
 for the oppositition. You can't keep track of it and you end up just randomly looking for goals. 
 Secondly, its SOOO Easy! I mean, 5-0 away at Old Trafford? I mean, come on. I was 3-0 up within 
 15 minutes, and I've only signed one player, which admittedly was a ridiculously cheap Christian 
 Chivu for &pound;9m. (Would cost you bout 20 on FM) .
  
  Lets just put it like this. Interface wise, its similar to FM, the navigation is almost a carbon 
 copy. But the fact is, its just a POOR management sim. Its far to easy, and after a couple of hours 
 playing it I don't think I'd play it for a long period of time again. The Football Management purists 
 will wait for Football Manager and they'd be right to. I know where I'll be on the 20th October. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ReuF-San
Rating: 4.9
Date: Oct 18, 2006 8:02 am PT
Review:  I should have known better... Since Eidos broke up with Sigames, the Football Management Fans were 
 split up in two camps. One followed Eidos who continued their CM series, the others followed Sigames 
 and its new game Football Manager (aka Worldwide Soccer Manager) . The Championship Manager series 
 have not made any improvement since the split up. Graphics and playability (mainly the interface) 
 are terrible and the occurence of irrealistic match results is very annoying. Important players 
 from minor clubs are eager to leave the club right from the start and want to play for a bigger 
 club. Now and then you see european top players join a smaller club that doesn't even play european 
 maches. Very, very strange indeed. Anyway, I will have to wait for Football Manager again, the demo 
 of their new edition was quite promising... 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
