-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Championship Manager: Season 03/04
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/sports/champmanager0304/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Feb 25, 2004
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8.6
Critic Score: 8.6, 5 Review (s)
User Score: 8.8, 519 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Eidos Interactive
Developer: Sports Interactive
Genre: Soccer Management
Date:     Nov 21, 2003 (EU) &raquo;  

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Who would have thought that one of the best games you could be playing on the PC was a text-based 
 soccer management simulation? 

  Who would have thought that one of the best games you could be playing on the PC was a text-based 
 soccer management simulation? It's true. Championship Manager 03/04 offers a rewarding and addictive 
 experience that can ensnare even those who aren't currently soccer fans.  

          Win... and the fans and media are your best friends.     

  The Championship Manager 
 franchise has long been the gold standard against which all text sports sims have been measured. 
 And for good reason. No other sports sim of any type offers you the breadth and depth of interactions 
 and decisions that you can experience in CM 03/04. Every facet of life as a sports manager is simulated 
 here -- from trying to select the right combination of players who (through some magic of synergy) 
 come together to form a powerful team, to dealing with a board that demands success while holding 
 the purse strings tightly, to having to react to the fickle media and fans. Therein lies the secret 
 of the addictive nature of the game. CM 03/04 is a superior sports sim, but it's also an outstanding 
 role-playing experience.  

  On the surface, CM 03/04 sounds like any other text-based sports sim. You select a team to manage, 
 evaluate your existing talent, set your roster, establish a training routine, make some tactical 
 decisions on how your team will play, look for new talent to add to the team and decide which existing 
 players to sell, and then you go on to play matches. The unmatched depth of CM 03/04 becomes obvious 
 with your first game decision. Selecting a team allows you to choose from 43 nations, each with 
 several levels of competition from which to choose (sadly, due to licensing issues, Major League 
 Soccer is unavailable) .  

  You can start with a world-class team, with millions of dollars at your disposal, like Manchester 
 United or Real Madrid, or you can start with a poor team that's playing in a lower league. This 
 choice is more than cosmetic because it provides you with significantly different types of games. 
 A world-class club allows you to vie for the top multimillion-dollar-salaried international superstars 
 (as well as their egos) , in addition to all of the demands and expectations of soccer at this rarified 
 level. On the other hand, selecting a lower-league team will force you to deal with a tiny budget, 
 poor facilities, and players who either aren't very talented or, if they  do  blossom, will surely 
 be snapped up by higher-league clubs. Both are extremely enjoyable types of games. Start at the 
 top, and play in the international competitions and cups; perhaps you'll then get selected to manage 
 your national team. Or you can start at the bottom, and see if you can take your team up the ladder 
 by eventually moving your once-weak, poor team into the upper leagues, along with the accompanying 
 higher stature and money. You may even develop a reputation that results in your being offered 
 a management job at a higher-prestige club.  

  Once you have a team, you'll need to assess your squad's players and staff. Players are described, 
 via numeric scores, by a wide variety of attributes. While this may sound a bit like a spreadsheet, 
 the attributes are numerous enough and varied enough to give you a good feel for a player's style. 
 For example, one player may be an obviously strong, aggressive brute who's slow but skilled, while 
 another player may be incredibly agile and fast -- and fully capable of skipping past defenders and 
 making amazing moves -- but slow to put the ball in the net. Lest you think that assessing players 
 is simply a matter of choosing the one with the best numbers, be aware that there are many hidden 
 attributes that only become obvious by observing a player's performance. Players also have text 
 descriptors, such as favorite players and coaches, major and minor concerns, and more.  

          The 2D engine is surprisingly effective at displaying the match action.     

  All of 
 this comes together in a way that makes each player feel three-dimensional and individualistic. 
 You'll quickly discover players who are the solid backbone of your team. They never complain; they 
 give their all on the pitch; and they're loyal and proud to be playing for you and your team. Others 
 will be highly talented prima donnas who constantly whine and want more money, consequently pouting 
 and playing poorly if they disagree with some decisions that you've made. You'll develop favorite 
 players, and you'll decide that other players aren't worth the maintenance. The highly developed 
 player personalities are one key to what makes CM 03/04 great. You spend much of the game interacting 
 with your players and making decisions that have a major impact on players' attitudes and performances. 
 For example, if a player gets sent off in a game or has a string of subpar performances, you have 
 choices in how to deal with the situation. Should you fine the player? Should you criticize the 
 player in the media? A professional player may respond with a renewed desire to prove himself, 
 while a hothead may decide that he now hates you and will then demand to be sold.     

  Interestingly, there's no simple formula. For instance, another emotional player may respond to 
 criticism by giving 110 percent, just to prove to you and the media that you're wrong. All of this 
 can result in some complex situations. In one game, we disciplined a key player, and he told the 
 media that he thought the team would never achieve its goals with the current manager. He then 
 demanded to be sold. When we sold him, three other key players on the team -- who were his good friends -- became 
 unhappy with us. The next thing we knew, we were facing a team revolt. Subsequently, the fans and 
 the media demanded our heads, which the board gladly delivered on a platter as we were fired. That's 
 the type of multidimensional interactions that are at the heart of CM 03/04.  

          He's young, ambitious, and talented, but he's got personal problems that make him a royal 
 pain. Sell him.     

  The biggest change in the history of the Championship Manager franchise came with the introduction 
 of a 2D, top-down graphical view of the match, which was introduced in last year's CM4. Previously, 
 all action during a match was displayed in a radio-style text commentary. The good news is that 
 the top-down view worked pretty well in CM4. The great news is that the 2D match display is outstanding 
 in CM 03/04. Screenshots don't do justice in describing how effectively the match display portrays 
 both how and why your team is performing as it is (as well as clearly showing you how each player 
 is performing) . Improvements over the CM4 display include various little touches, like visual indications 
 of the pitch condition, offsides flags, and generally smoother and more realistic action. Meanwhile, 
 while sound isn't a significant factor in text-based career sports sims (and, indeed, there is 
 literally no sound at all in most of CM 03/04) , the matches are accompanied with all of the jeers, 
 cheers, chants, whistles, and other sounds you'd expect if sitting in the stands at Old Trafford. 

  CM 03/04 is so full of choices and interactions -- all elegantly presented -- that it would take volumes 
 to list them all. Every aspect of the game displays the years of development and maturity of this 
 franchise. For example, the simple act of trying to acquire a player from another team is filled 
 with nuances. A team in your league may not want to allow you to have one of their star players, 
 so they may choose instead to take a lower offer from a team in another league. You can make deals 
 that involve partial trades, conditional clauses (that provide you with a percentage of the value 
 of future sales of a specific player) , installment payments, timing of moves, and much more. Training 
 is both simple to set up and complex enough to experiment with for hours. Tactical control over 
 your team during matches allows you to dictate every facet of both your team and each individual's 
 instructions.  

          Ah, the manager's life: a critical match today, three starters are hurt, and one is off 
 on international duty.     

  As you might expect, CM 03/04 is almost bug-free. The only significant bug is one in which applying 
 for other management jobs doesn't work properly. Luckily, SI has promised a fix for this in the 
 next couple of weeks.  

  CM 03/04 has that rare ability that only the best games of any genre possess: It makes you always 
 want to push the "continue" button one more time, in spite of it being far too late at night (or, 
 rather, early in the morning) . You always want to know if that hot, young goalie your scout discovered 
 will accept your contract offer to fill the gap you have in your lineup due to your starting keeper's 
 surprise retirement. You always want to respond to the criticism you've received on the radio sports 
 talk show about your decision to bench a fan favorite. You always want to play one more match because 
 your opponent's leading scorer is a player you dumped four years ago for being an underperforming 
 whiner who was dragging the whole team down. Then, just as you decide you  must  save and shut 
 down, you get a message that Arsenal has offered you a management job. However, you've just now 
 brought Dag and Red all the way from the conference to the brink of being promoted to the First 
 Division -- and the fans love you. OK, just one more turn. There's a reason that this is one of the 
 best-selling games of any genre in the world. Though, it's still not available in North American 
 retail outlets, you'll need to import it if you want to play it stateside.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (23 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: tapps
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 9, 2008 5:58 am PT
Review:  This is the best football management game ive ever played for several.
  
  it, unlike fifa manager and lma has magnificent detail in the player attributes, with the perfect 
 amount of detail and things to do, and the games brilliantly realistic like an everyday match (in 
 terms of the score not the looks) with every decision changing the game.
  
  the transfers are realistic and the playes improve realaistically as time goes on. you can even 
 scout player! that is how in depth it is.
  
  it is the l; ast game before championship manager split to football manager and is the best since 
 as both groups seem to have gone in different directions... the wrong directions.
  
  anyway, l get this or you will regret it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HandheldJunkie
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 18, 2007 8:09 am PT
Review:  Let's face it, this game is legendary, even a completely uninterested football fan like myself 
 has found some fun in it. The graphics are good, i like the sounds and the choices are endless 
 for teams, lets face it, this game is a classic that can never be beaten. It ranked 270 out 3131 
 PC games and thats saying something considering the game is 4 years old. I love it, you should 
 love it. It just sums up football, and the way in which it is played. It has taught me a thing 
 or two about it aswell! Come on and buy it, in my opinion this is far better than any of the following 
 titles and if your used to playing the 07 versions then you'll love this! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Manxpotter
Rating: 8.4
Date: Mar 1, 2007 1:13 pm PT
Review:  I've always enjoyed playing Championship Manager titles, especially this one. I will admit that 
 I don't have them all so my opinion is quite biased.
  
  I have spent too many occasions playing into the early hours of the morning telling myself Just 
 one more game . (Some of you out there know exactly what I mean) .
  
  One feature offered with this title is the option to alter the database where the game loads up 
 from. You have the ability to manipulate players age, club, ability etc. I think this feature was 
 added to allow you to update the different clubs with new signing and injuries to try and keep 
 things as real as possible but inevitably it lead me to manipulating the team I wanted to play. 
 It was fun for a while, stomping on the opposition but the novelty quickly wears off and the challenge 
 of the game is lost. (Not recommended but good for a while.)
  
  The basic game play is really good. You can set different formations and tactics (there are better 
 options on the later titles but this is more than adequate) to help customise your team. i did 
 struggle a little with the training side and found a few of my better players were decreasing in 
 ability and no matter what combination I tried (and I tried a few) . I found it hard to maximise 
 a players potential but it wasn't enough o stop me playing.
  
  If your a CM fan then this is one you probably have already but if not, definitely one for your 
 collection. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JoeLostDharma
Rating: 9.1
Date: Feb 17, 2007 8:53 am PT
Review:  Championship Manager is such a great series of games. I love them, because I can't stop playing 
 them. I love being In charge of everything and buying and selling players and everything. It's just 
 like the real deal. I was first introduced to Championship Manager when I got the demo of the previous 
 game in my cereal. I was told by my freind that it was great, so I started to play and before long 
 I was addicted! I played that game for ages and then when this game came out I was first in line 
 to buy it! This one was really brilliant because of the 2d Match highlights. They brought the game 
 to life.
  I love the games! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: farnerud
Rating: 9.6
Date: Aug 12, 2006 3:55 pm PT
Review:  No doubt: history is in the making here! Championship Manager 03/04 is one of the best PC games 
 ever made. One of the enhancements presents towards this game is the interaction that the user 
 has with the media, that brings this game closer to reality itself. It's obvius that there are 
 imperfections, but aren't there in every game ?
  The sounds is one of the improvements too, as the player can now listen to real chants coming from 
 the crowd, reactions towarsd the home and away team, and goal celebrations.
  The transfer market has experimented a revolution, once now player agents can send you video tapes 
 with highlights from their clients, trying to persuade you to hire those players. Also it is more 
 difficult to hire players, as they are more demanding towards their contract and the clubs that 
 holds their passes are more relutant to leave them to you.
  A brand new interface comes as a flow of fresh air, making you more addicted to this game, that 
 certainly your great great grandchildren will still be playing, after you're game over! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wee_ged_2005
Rating: 10
Date: May 4, 2006 9:33 am PT
Review:  I think there is about 10 championship manager games and I think this is the best in the series 
 and you can't get much better there is just so many countries and clubs to choose from there is 
 more than 1000 players in the game you can also go countries and theres now a 2D version of the 
 pitch and the players no matter how many manager games there is this one is the best and always 
 will be this is just too good the game is just about too good to describe and put this way BUY 
 IT PLAY IT LOVE IT. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: andrewkozis
Rating: 8.8
Date: Apr 8, 2006 5:04 am PT
Review:  I have played this game more than any other game in my entire life!!! Thats because it is so addictive 
 !!! 
  
  The gameplay ROCKS!!!! Basiclly you can be any soccer team you wish in most of the world , and 
 manage them . You can buy ,sell ,disapline , praise and many more others things!!! You have a transfer 
 buget ( varys between teams) which you can buy any player you wish ! Simple but BRILLIANT.
  
  Theres not much to the graphics as the players are circles but its definatly good enough for 
 me ! the games so good It doesnt need em !
  
  The sound farly dull aswell , but the crowd does cheer when somthing good happens etc.
  
  The 
 value is now great ! As you can pick the game up REALLY REALLY cheap. Worth buying for sure !!! 
 
  
  I reccomend this game to anyone !!! You should go out and buy it now seeing as you can get the 
 game really cheap . This is definatly the best pc game i have EVER played ........................ 
 in my life. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nuggs_15
Rating: 9.2
Date: Mar 16, 2006 9:13 am PT
Review:  A football management sim better than this? You'll be hard pushed to find one as this not only 
 matched my expectations but exceeded them by some distance.
  
  Gameplay: The usual highly addictive gameplay you'd expect from a management sim and the editing 
 mode will keep you interested and tinkering with the game's works. You could improve it and with 
 the media, tactics and even the little 2D dots moving around the pitch it is addictive. I couldn't 
 put down the keyboard or stop playing it. It was that good. Very realistic too.
  
  Graphics: The let down but even then it doesn't have to be flashy and fancy as it's a management 
 sim and that makes it respectable. OK, a 3D mode would be much appreciated but that could ruin 
 the game.
  
  Sound: Is there any sound?
  
  Value: Well worth it, buy it.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: A_Viper
Rating: 8.8
Date: Feb 7, 2006 3:48 am PT
Review:  This was the last Championship Manager game to be released with Eidos and Sports Interactive working 
 together, and fittingly it is the best.
  
  It is hard to believe that a simple text based game could have the staying power and addictiveness 
 that this game has. Any football (soccer) fan that has ever dreamed of managing his or her favourite 
 club needs to own at least one game from this series. This is the definitive edition though, with 
 updates for the 2003/2004 season. The balance between realism and gameplay is just right in this 
 game, whereas its stablemates had a tendency to either be too basic or so complex that they were 
 impossible. It is possible to succeed with CM 03/04 with some thought and a LOT of time.
  
  Because the game is open-ended with no way of ever completing it, and the fact that it will continue 
 to generate new players until the end of time, the game will always entice you to come back to 
 it. Plus you can live out footballing fantasies with the game, such as leading real life non-league 
 teams into Europe, or managing your home nation in the World Cup. 
  
  The game is almost exclusively text based, however there is the 2D pitch that appears during matches 
 and allows you to see how your team (and your opponents) are working. This also shows you where 
 weaknesses are. Graphically this is a non-event, simply having coloured dots moving around the 
 screen, though it serves its purpose well.
  
  The game requires a reasonable understanding of football and a basic grasp of different tactics. 
 It is possible to play without these though little success will be achieved.
  
  Sound is surplus to requirements in Championship Manager games, and thus the only sound you get 
 is generic cheers and whistles during the matches. 
  
  This game is the most detailed CM of the EI/SI partnership with indepth training regimes, individual 
 player tactics, press and player relationships, plus the customary huge database of players, managers 
 and coaches from around the world. The number of leagues to manage in has been expanded again, 
 though in all honesty most people will not use these, and will just stick to their home nation 
 or maybe some of the other highclass leagues.
  
  It is very hard to explain how good this game is to someone who doesn't know the CM series, as 
 the game never sounds up to much. However anyone who knows the series will know just how fantastic 
 the games are. And this is the crowning glory of the Sports Interactive/Eidos' partnership. A simple, 
 yet totally engrossing game that will easily whittle away months of your life. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mikepearson85
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jan 26, 2006 11:01 pm PT
Review:  The number of online communities and websites dedicated to this game speak for its quality!
  The sheer scope of this game is amazing, from totally in-depth player development, training and 
 moral management to hiring staff and backroom teams.
  It's an incredibly time consuming game, loads of fun and very engrossing. The only problem is that 
 it does begin to run a bit slowly several seasons into the game. The upside of this is that it's 
 running slowly because of the number of new young players and staff that it is generating.
  All in all a fantastic soccer sim, with an all encompassing style and great replay value 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sexlexia2000
Rating: 4.4
Date: Jan 21, 2006 6:08 am PT
Review:  got it pretty cheap didnt expect anything spectacular, didnt see anything spectacular. suprisingly 
 easy to win and cheat if u want. alot more countries included in playable list but still who the 
 hell is gonna wanna play in the indian league for gods sake. plus the international countries u 
 can manage are limited again.... became highly addicted to this game and never realised it was 
 just game stats and i achieved absolutley nothing playing it. i blame this game as well as myself 
 for me screwing up my A levels. i dont recommend u get one of these games until u are in a career 
 and have nothing productive to do with ur time. graphics yet again a let down and u cant see match 
 just stupid dots kicking another dot?? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dimitrismarkou
Rating: 8.6
Date: Dec 30, 2005 6:18 am PT
Review:  i believe that the editors of the game, had only one thing in their minds; to make a game highly 
 addictive. and they did it! despite the fact of the 2D effects, this game is really great. you 
 have all the options that a manager has in order to command his team. according to the choices 
 that you have to make during every season, your team shall succeed or not. the hot spot of the 
 game is that no matter how successful you are as a manager and what you have achieved with your 
 team, you can not react and behave regardless the board' s or the fans opinion and that is exactly 
 why this game is so realistic. for instace after nine consecutive seasons of being premier' s league 
 and champion's league champion with the team of Liverpool, i have been fired because of fining 
 a lot of players due to poor performances or unprofessional behaviours! anyway, this game is really 
 great. i am all ready feeling like a manager.... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SimonBall
Rating: 7.7
Date: Oct 28, 2005 5:04 pm PT
Review:  The Championship Manager games have long been regarded as the best football management games around, 
 this is reflected in the amount of games published and sold.
  
  Incase you hadn't already known, this game puts you in charge of club from many leagues. You pick 
 the team, buy the players, sack the staff and a whole lot more. But I'll go into further detail 
 of that in a minute.
  
  The basic gameplay is excellent. I've been playing Championship Manager for 6 years now, and there 
 are only a few days when I haven't played it. The games are addictive as anything, and the easy-to-use 
 interface means that you can play this complex game with ease. You can play this game in different 
 ways, for example, you could take a small team up through the divisions, you could take a big team 
 to bigger things, you could just have a game there for a quick challenge or one to try out new 
 tactics, players and training schedules. I also find that you can play this while doing other things, 
 especially if you don't mind moving slowely through the game. Often I find myself playing on the 
 Xbox, watching a movie or doing my coursework while the game is running on the computer.
  
  Once again, we find that every player at every club from more than 40 leagues are present; all 
 scouted and included. This totals to some 200,000 players in the game, yet alone all the regenerations. 
 The data updates are one of things that makes this game what it is. It is so comprehensive, it's 
 the Oxford Dictionairy of sport/simulation games. The stats for each player have changed since 
 the last game, and we find more suited stats for the players, which have been researched to the 
 max.
  
  The game engine has only had a little tweak since the previous game, but it stills runs very well, 
 and you'll have no problem adapting to it if you've never used one before. In the demo, the 2D 
 Match Engine was quite blocky and sluggish, but this was only a demo and has been fixed. A lot 
 of bugs have been fixed from the previous game, CM4, which was released and shortly followed by 
 an enourmous patch. This, thankfully, hasn't happened with CM03/04, but you can download the data 
 updates like before.
  
  The interaction with your team, staff and the media has developed nicely over the past few games, 
 and now we have a level nearing total realism.
  
  Tactics can now be finely tuned for each team, giving team instructions, and a whole host of player 
 instructions, down to what you want them to do for a free-kick (you could ask them to disrupt the 
 wall for example) . Some people have already created tactics that will make you win, no matter how 
 poor you team is, by expoiting the match engine. However, there is nothing better than working 
 hard on a tactic, perfecting it, and watching you team win game after game.
  
  The same happens with training, in which you can create as many schedules as you want, and combine 
 many different sessions. A bar graph is now present which shows the effectiveness of your training 
 schedule within different catagories (Attacking and Fitness for example) . It can take quite a while 
 to get your desired result, but getting it right and training up youth to become world class is 
 something you just need to do, again, giving the player some enjoyment.
  
  And isn't that what games are about? Enjoyment?
  
  Transfers are now more detailed, giving 
 you more options on how to obtain a player. Co-ownership has given people the opportunity to share 
 players with other teams, but this can only be done in Italy as far as I can tell. There are more 
 extras to go into transfers, like league goals to pay another 500,000 or whichever.
  
  The staff, finances and fixtures have all been improved, giving more odds and a better look at 
 the finances of your club. Showing you more info than just gate receipts.
  
  Unfortunatly, the Championship Manager series as we know is basically gone, with the contract between 
 Eidos and SiGames coming to an end. Both are going seperate ways, with SiGames creating Football 
 Manager 2005 and Eidos creating Championship Manager 5. To be honest, Eidos have no chance of competing 
 with SiGames this time, since all they have is the name.
  
  But for a finale to a series, you can't get any better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Pontesi
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jul 12, 2005 7:44 pm PT
Review:  Championship Manager has always been at the forefront of the Soccer (or Football to a UK resident 
 like me) management genre, until recently. The incentive of managing your own soccer team, making 
 the transfers you want to see, training previously mediocre players to new heights is food for 
 thought. Yet for a decade this is what Championship Manager has been providing, albeit at a more 
 advanced and deeper level as each title rolls in.
  
  If you're a soccer fan playing Championship Manager for the first time then this 'update' will 
 be your Mecca. I say update because it is hard to differentiate between this title and CM4. Each 
 game in the series has a seasonal update, a few new features and a few new leagues/countries to 
 manager teams from. It has, for the most part, worked perfectly. Yet Championship Manager 03/04 
 is so remarkably like its predecessor (Championship Manager 4) that what this game has achieved 
 as a stand alone game is a mockery to the much used patch system.
  
  Now you may ask why I have rated the value and graphics so high? Well mainly because you are getting 
 more hours of enjoyment out of this re-hash than about five other FPS/Action/Adventure games for 
 a fraction of the cost. The presentation of CM 03/04 is pretty much the same as CM4 but it still 
 looks good for which it gets high marks. In CM4, we were introduced to a new 2D view of the match. 
 This, to me and many, ruined the imagination behind the game. In the older games, you would watch 
 the text flash by and play it out in your mind. It's hard to do that now when the computer offers 
 the option for you. Saying that, it's a nice and overdue feature.
  
  Unfortunately the sound is another downer. The previously monotonous, but well initiated chants 
 of the crowds have now been replaced with a variety of different sound effects. Unfortunately, 
 the sound can get rather jerky and out of place at times but it's nothing you will really cry home 
 about.
  
  If you're thinking of potentially owning this game after past CM experiences, don't think about 
 it. For about the same amount of money you could buy the classic Championship Manager 01/02 or 
 even go for SI Games' breakaway title Football Manager 2005. If you see it for cheap, it's nice 
 to add to the collection. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: squeekikleen
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 11, 2005 1:17 am PT
Review:  When I first came upon the Championship Manager series I would have to admit that I was overwhelmed. 
 I also thought that there was no way I could get any enjoyment out of a seemingly simple text-based 
 game. Later I found a deep and complex strategy game that covered all the angles of the football 
 world. Championship Manager 4 took the series to a whole new level with a 2D match engine, a complicated 
 training system, and many other features (see my review of CM4) . Championship Manager 03/04 offers 
 more of the same with an updated training system, updated rosters etc.
  
  There are two main differences between CM03/04 and its predecessor. The first difference is in 
 regards to the training schedule. The training schedule in CM4 was one of the most talked about 
 and most frustrating aspects to CM4. In CM03/04, it has been altered, but it still is definitely 
 not easier. The second improvement would be in relation to tactics. In CM4, certain super tactics 
 developed making mince-meat out of opponents, those tactics, however, do not work in CM03/04 (perhaps, 
 new ones will develop though) . The 2D match engine looks the same and I wouldnt mind to see them 
 go a step further with it by next instalment. I was also quite disappointed that no work had been 
 done in improving the sound of the game which I would conclude to be the games weakest point.
 
  
  Aside from the above and an updated roster, CM03/04 differs only slightly to its predecessor. Nevertheless, 
 CM03/04 is the best football sim/strategy game out there and I wouldnt be surprised if its the 
 best overall sports sim/strategy game as well. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: smellysoc1
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 13, 2005 4:27 pm PT
Review:  what a game, they will do well to beat this next year. great gameplay as usual will keep you playing 
 for hours and hours. grahpics or good for the type of game it is. definatly better than the others. 
 with all the leagues and cups updated and a few little extras added which make the beautiful game 
 perfect. the added leagues give you a superb range of choice. and with all the leagues come all 
 the teams theres got to be over 1,000 teams in this game so it might take a while choosing who 
 to be. but this is well worth a buy no matter what age. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: moj5556
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 25, 2005 6:41 pm PT
Review:  Championship Manager 03/04 is an extraodinary game that is fully addictive, and a must buy if you 
 are a football fan. Even if you are not a football fan, this will make you learn the game of football 
 very quickly. The game has great commentary, but even if it is not playable like Pro Evolution 
 Soccer or FIFA it is still, brilliant and has improved Championship Manager 4. There is now much 
 more players, goal-of-the-month competition and goal-of-the-year competition. There is more cups, 
 and more realistic transfers, and it is now much harder to get players, they won't just accept 
 any kind of contract, they now want a certain contract, they like. This is a great game. A definite 
 must buy!!! Get it now 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DivineComedy
Rating: 9.8
Date: Oct 2, 2004 9:08 pm PT
Review:  I've been playing the CM series since the evry first one in in 93 and it's since my most loved 
 game series. After the CM4 fiasco, Spotrs Interactive had to prove that they can bring back the 
 charm to the series and they did it fully with CM03/04. It fixes most of the faults of CM4 and 
 improves greatly in gameplay, and deepness from CM3 and its yearly expansions. The 2D match engine 
 is brilliantly realistic and the media and the player interaction is improved also. THe training 
 is something that is fun to manage at last.
  
  My only two minor complaints are that it's somehow hard to sell players and there are teams that 
 remain years without coach (specially teams that I decline their offer to me) . But that cannot 
 detract from the fact that this is in my opinion the best incarnation of this great management 
 series and it's addictive as ever. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Badfellah
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 11, 2004 11:23 am PT
Review:  I would call it a cult game, cause it is. People just never get tired of it. Off course you must 
 like football, but the game helps you a lot in the prosess. You are to manage a soccer team of 
 your own choice. You get a specific amount of money to buy players with, depending on the team 
 you manage. The database is very big, you can find real life players all over the world. But how 
 many you find depends on your settings, the bigger database, the slower the game runs. Maby I am 
 talking about the obvious?
  
  Finding good players at the cheapest price possably is like searching for gold, really hard. But 
 there are many sites on the internet that gives you some tips. And even though a player has great 
 stats, he can be a great dissapointment. So you will have to use your managing skills! Just like 
 in real life. But he might suddenly become real class.
  
  The makers of the game suggests that you pic a team at a lower league, to increase the game experience. 
 The only minus in the game, is that you can win the champions league with a low divition team in 
 just a couple of years, you COULD. Maby not so realistic, but I recon that the next installment 
 of the game will be better on this front: Football Manager 2005, or maby it has changed the name. 
 I have herd some rumours. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bonk
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 24, 2004 4:34 pm PT
Review:  When you have tried this manager game, you will set it as a standard for every other manger game. 
 Some manager games focus on the tycoon aspect you see in games like Rollercoaster tycoon and Zoo 
 tycoon. If this it what you want then the Championship Manager (CM) series is probably not for 
 you. If it is the feel of controlling a sport team full of individuals and personalities then you 
 cant get it any better than this. Even if you are not that keen on football (or soccer depending 
 on which side of the pond) this game can suck you in deep.
  
  In this game your players are not just a list of numbers. Most other games treat a player on your 
 team often with just one overall number from 1-10. This makes it very easy to decide to replace 
 him with another player with 0.2 more. This results in a game where your players are just numbers. 
 
  In CM this is not possible. Your players have numbers of course but they only function as a guideline. 
 How you play him, the amount of trust give him (or dont) and much more is of much more importance. 
 I have often found myself nurturing a young player giving him room yet trying to be strict in order 
 to make him blossom on the team. You will sometimes find that your high cost and high skill numbered 
 new strikers is not scoring any goals and are playing poorly  while your much less skilled striker 
 in terms of numbers is having the time of his life. The best thing about this is that it at no 
 time feels random. You dont loose faith in the game and every trick it throws at you seems to 
 make sense.
  
  The sounds in the game could be better and so could the interface but what there is do its job 
 in a working manner. It is not a flashy game at any place and that is also the case for the match 
 representation. This is not there to show you graphics but to serve as a tool for your evaluation 
 of the match and the players and this is exactly what it does very well. Other games show you detailed 
 players and fields but this is just an empty shell that draws up a lot more information that it 
 can deliver. In CM what you see is what you can use. Over time you will begin to get an expectation 
 about what to expect from your individual players on the pitch when they get the ball  and this 
 is much more powerfull than the numbers that are given the players in terms of skill. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: MisterHarryZ
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 23, 2004 12:16 pm PT
Review:  I like this game. The graphics are first rate, though the constant changing of the screen background 
 is a little off-putting (there is an option to turn this off) . 
  
  The sound is less of a plus. There is no music, and hardly any sound effects (apart from crowd 
 noise and the referee's whistle) . A good way to get around this is to use a music player program 
 (like Windows Media Player or iTunes) and put your own music on. There's nothing like watching 
 England thrash Germany to the delicate strains of Motorhead ;)
  
  Despite the lack of sound, the game is brilliant, and I highly recommend it.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ernelson1976
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jun 20, 2004 4:42 pm PT
Review:  If you're a soccer fan, and love stats, this is your game, hands down.
  
  Lots of detail, lots of options (maybe even too many if you don't really know what your doing) 
 and an open ended experience.
  
  It's hard to grade this excellent game on graphics or sound - they are not bad for what is necessary 
 to make the game work. I've rated them high because they are not just adequate for the task, but 
 are attractive and convey the necessary information in a way that is intuitive and familiar.
  
  You can manage virtually any team in existence, trade players and compete in virtually every 
 tournament. Play your favorite local team or major national teams like Man United. Difficulty depends 
 largely on the team you pick and its league. There are no limits here.
  
  The game moves at a swift clip when you want it to, but you can always micromanage if you desire 
 (and if you want to compete with the best teams, you may need to) .
  
  Despite the heavy detail, you'll never feel completely overwhelmed.
  
  Overall, perhaps the 
 best team management sim I've ever seen, bar none. Highly Recommended. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Egonga
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jun 18, 2004 3:28 pm PT
Review:  You knew better. When you signed the kid 5 years ago for a bargain price, everyone told you that 
 it was a bad decision. The assistant manager said he hadn't the skill to become a world-class player. 
 Your coaches gave you poor reports. Even the fans seemed disappointed that you signed this travesty 
 of a "hot prospect". Yet there he is, top scorer for the club and a key factor in your title push...
 
  
  This is just an example of the type of silent thrill you get from playing a Championship Manager 
 game. It's an underestimated genre, often overlooked for the instant gratification of FIFA and 
 PES. And yet the joy you get when something goes in your favour, or a team can't renew a contract 
 for a player you want SOOOO bad, or the sorrow of losing your star player for a month or your best 
 players requesting transfers, is an unbeatable feeling. It's a slower pace that allows you to understand 
 your team's strengths and weaknesses, and allows you to become emotionally attached to your team's 
 performance as if it were real football... a hard task to accomplish.
  
  The latest game in the series, which I should have started reviewing 2 paragraphs ago, is at a 
 glance merely Championship Manager 4 but without the bugs. However, a few little details have been 
 added to the game that, although not exactly revolutionary, still warrant a purchase if you own 
 the previous games. The gameplay is far more balanced and realistic, with the intelligence of the 
 players on the 2D match engine increased greatly. No longer do they waste empty spaces or perform 
 bizarre passes when through on goal. It's still by no means perfect... sometimes you'll be screaming 
 at the player to pass it to Owen, who's in acres of space with a clear run on goal... but it's still 
 of high quality, and ensures you won't be too angry with player intelligence.
  
  Although the intelligence was fairly low when, while Dudek was off recieving treatment, Jamie Carragher 
 gave it to the opposition instead of kicking the ball out, leaving Wolves with an empty goal to 
 ruin my undefeated streak. THANK YOU JAMIE CARRAGHER, IDIOT SUPREME!!!
  
  Sorry, angry memory. Chill... *breathes* Confirmation, however, of how the game draws you into 
 it, making you feel as if you really are the manager of a left back with more feet than brain cells.
 
  
  If you were to ask for the definition of a perfect football management game, I'd say Championship 
 Manager 03/04. The graphics are poor, but unimportant, in a game that revolves around statistics 
 and tactics, providing the player with challenge enough to warrant continued playing, yet not so 
 difficult as to verge on the impossible. With a limitless number of seasons, the game will last 
 you a LONG time... until the next version comes out at any rate... and will consume your life in 
 the process. As they say in the business, "The boy done good." 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
