-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Chaos Legion
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/action/chaoslegion/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Jan 13, 2004
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 4.5
Critic Score: 4.7, 4 Review (s)
User Score: 7.4, 547 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Capcom
Genre: Fantasy Action Adventure
Date:     Dec 18, 2003
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Chaos Legion is still a repetitive and bland hack-and-slash game on the PC, just as it was on the 
 PlayStation 2. 

  Capcom has once again ported a lackluster console game to the PC. While we may never know why the 
 company chooses not to port its better games, we do know that Chaos Legion is still a repetitive 
 and bland hack-and-slash game on the PC, just as it was on the PlayStation 2.  

          Many of Chaos Legion's environments look drab and uninteresting.     

  In the game, 
 you play as a knight named Sieg Warheit, who is tasked with stopping a man named Victor Delacroix 
 from collecting powerful magical artifacts. The two men and these artifacts are linked by past 
 events; Sieg killed Delacroix's lover, and now Delacroix is hoping to use these magical artifacts 
 to bring his beloved back to life, even if it means causing wanton destruction along the way. The 
 game uses cutscenes between missions to advance the plot, but the silly dialogue and convoluted 
 scene direction make following the story more difficult than it needs to be. The cutscenes include 
 decent but unremarkable voice acting, much like the music and other sound in the game.  

  Unfortunately, Chaos Legion includes many of the same graphical blemishes that marred the experience 
 on the PS2. While the actual character models for Sieg and the monsters are reasonably detailed, 
 the combat animation suffers from some jerkiness, which makes Sieg appear to warp from one strike 
 to the next. Sieg's walking animation is even worse -- he appears to moonwalk or glide across the 
 ground rather than take deliberate steps. Other technical issues include heavy fogging that results 
 in noticeable draw-in and mip-mapping problems that create unintentional blurriness and distortion 
 on textured surfaces a short distance away from your point of view. The game also fails from an 
 artistic standpoint -- while it attempts to mimic the dark, gothic look of Devil May Cry with its 
 character designs, the environments end up feeling rather drab and uninteresting, with very limited 
 detail.  

  The gameplay is best described as hack-and-slash, with some basic strategic elements included. 
 Sieg's basic attack is with his sword -- using a single button, you can easily execute slashes and 
 strikes that chain together in combination. As you defeat level bosses, you gain crests that you 
 can equip to give you special, more powerful attacks. More importantly, these crests allow you 
 to summon "legions," which are monsters that have their own unique attacks and abilities. You can 
 manage Sieg and the legions well enough using the keyboard, but those with dual-analog controllers 
 will have an easier time playing because the controller makes it easier to manage the camera.  
 

  When summoned, the legions act as your sidekicks to help you combat the swarms of enemies you'll 
 need to defeat in each level. Some legions are more suited to fighting organic monsters, while 
 others are better at taking down metallic enemies. Since you can only equip two crests at a time, 
 choosing which of the game's seven legions to use is supposed to be a key strategic element. In 
 practice, you can get away with relying almost exclusively on two of the legions, due to the limited 
 types of enemies you face. After each level, you'll gain experience points based on your performance, 
 which you can spend on upgrades for your legions.  

  Another lackluster aspect of Chaos Legion is its level design, which consists of linear sequences 
 of arenas. In each arena, you must either defeat all the enemies or kill certain target enemies 
 in order to unlock the next area and advance. Fans of mindless action games probably won't mind, 
 but if you were hoping for some puzzles or interesting areas to explore, Chaos Legion definitely 
 isn't your game. In almost every area, you'll be swarmed by dozens upon dozens of monsters, which 
 can make for some action-packed, frantic moments. The novelty wears off quickly, though, as you 
 summon in the appropriate legions and mash the attack button. By the time you're half done with 
 the game, you've seen just about everything Chaos Legion has to offer. The bosses offer some respite 
 from the rote, as they require you to discover their weak point and dodge their patterns of attack, 
 but even these monsters start to get recycled early on. For a game that's only about five or six 
 hours long, there's surprisingly little variety in the gameplay.  

          Bosses in Chaos Legion can be large and intimidating.     

  The worst aspect of Chaos 
 Legion actually has nothing to do with the gameplay -- it involves getting the game to actually run. 
 Initial shipments of the game apparently included some major problems with the game discs. While 
 the installation goes without a hitch, attempting to launch the game may not work. The application 
 asks that you have disc one inserted, but the application launcher will not recognize either disc. 
 We tried two different copies of the game on three different computers and ran into the same error 
 every time. Other customers have registered the same complaint on Capcom's online message boards. 
 At the time of this writing, the available patch on Capcom's Web site doesn't fix the error, but 
 the company says it is still working on a solution. In order to play the game, we turned to an 
 unsupported, third-party patch that bypasses the game's CD-check routine.  

  If the problems with getting the game to run weren't enough reason to keep you away from Chaos 
 Legion, then the boring gameplay and graphical shortcomings should be reason enough. Though many 
 may be attracted to the game because of cosmetic similarities to the PS2 hit Devil May Cry, Chaos 
 Legion fails to capture the same magic that led Capcom to coin the phrase "stylish hard action." 
     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (16 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: JappStarr
Rating: 3.5
Date: Apr 14, 2008 10:36 pm PT
Review:  Is it worth playing? Not really. Here's the lowdown on Chaos Legion: You're a sword-wielding hero 
 having a bad hair day who's hunting down a miscreant intent on destroying Earth. To catch this 
 miscreant, you must first slash through repetitive stages of demonic enemies among bland backdrops 
 of inaccessible stone buildings. Despite their insipid settings, the largest bosses do impress 
 graphically, but the battles are long, and you can't save anywhere in Chaos Legion except between 
 stages.
  
  On a positive note, you are able to summon upgradeable creatures called legions to battle alongside 
 you, although doing so lessens your own attack power. The different legions slice, smack, explode 
 on, or shoot arrows at enemies, and they acquire special attacks as they gain experience. Things 
 would've been better if the most powerful legion didn't get blown up five minutes into the game, 
 though. Besides not portending well for the futures of the other, lesser legions, this one's vanquishment 
 forces you to collect his scattered remains from various stages before you can use him again. You 
 also lose all the legions during the most boring stage, in which you become a sidekick chick who 
 jumps around and fires pistols while marching like she's got gum stuck to the soles of her shoes. 
 
  
  
  
  Capcom has an arsenal of high-quality survival-horror console games such as Devil May Cry and the 
 Onimusha series from which to create PC ports; why the company chose to port Chaos Legion instead 
 is mystifying, but gamers might have been better off if its discs had stayed forever unplayable. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kiriyama12
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 7, 2008 9:27 am PT
Review:  Chaos Legion
  
  About the game, chaos legion comes in start with a different style of game play, although fans 
 of devil may cry and onimusha will come to appreciate the main concept behind the "just hack and 
 slash battle". i think...
  
  Anyway, the concept of the battle system of chaos legion is your "legions" or summons, you can 
 summon these creatures to fight for you so the "hack and slash" just doesn't come from you, each 
 time you progress in the game your legions will grow stronger and both in strength and number, 
 your strongest legion "Thanatos" will be split into many pieces early in the game but after you 
 collect him again and make him grow to his ultimate form, you'll have one strong "Bouncer" oops! 
 (that part is not a review! =P) anyway, chaos legion still has room for MORE improvements such 
 as legion user combos, cooler attack combos etc. so i can't entirely put the blame on the critics, 
 but given time, if a sequel is possible, i hope CAPCOM may consider these flaws, upon improvement, 
 it can be one of the best games ever. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kueiyen
Rating: 6
Date: Oct 10, 2007 8:34 pm PT
Review:  Well, judging by the standard when the game was made, I can say the graphic and the control is 
 really good and works even better with a game-pad. However, the game is really hollow because lack 
 of alot of things that make this game from boring to rich. About the inventory, there is nothing 
 to equip except potion to heal, there is no different set of weapons, aromor to change except 2 
 monsters you can equip for each level. The sommon monster is the only thing that the game is worth, 
 but sadly they aren't really useful and you can only equip two type of monster at a time, which 
 is a great turn down. I think the reason behind this is that it forces you to revisit some of the 
 level twice becasue some of the hidden treasure can only unlock by a specific monster, other than 
 that there is nothing really new going on. But what hurts the game the most is the that from beginning 
 to the end, all the enivironment lack of human presence, all you got a empty city crowed with the 
 same monster in great number to kill (but without the excitement or the joy of slaughtering, i. e. 
 like bloodrayne, dynasty warriors) . So you basically linger in a God-forsaken city without a citizen 
 to save, if so, what'd hell I am fighting and dying for... except it is a hard way for getting 
 to point B. The story is really boring, basiclly you are tyring to stop your ex-best friend from 
 unleashing hell-on earth, so from beginning to the end you are just being a dog following the place 
 he went. So the story pretty goes like this: Oh.. he was here...... oh he also been there.... I 
 guess he will go there... so I better go there... (then it goes another chapter) . Oh well, what 
 can I say, I did have some fun playing in the start when I was attract by the graphic, but the 
 game's repeatative action really bores me quickly. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: baazigar_2000
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 24, 2007 4:44 am PT
Review:  Arrrriiigghhtttyyy!!!! This is quite a game I tell you!!!
  
  I was at first reluctant at buying this game... simply because it was indeed a typical hack and 
 slash game I had already come across (i. e. things like Blood Omen 2, Soul Reaver 2, Legend of Kay, 
 etc) ... and when I had played the first level or tow I thought hmm this is rather bland.... the same 
 repetitive gameplay, the limited acces around each stage, the similarity of enemies.... but only 
 when I dived further into the adventure, did the true fantasy world of Chaos Legion come forth!!!
 
  
  You play a misfortunate soul (but... he is also a mystical warrior, bearer of the dark glyphs, so 
 dont get too carried away!) called Sieg Wahrheit.... who has been assigned a task by the Order of 
 Ovaria to pursue a former member (and close chum) called Victor Delacroix.... Now Vicky here has 
 gone off on a tangent, slain Sir Clovis (vice-president, if you like) and embarked on a mission 
 to wreak havoc throughout the bloody land!!!
  
  Now why would he do that, you ask? Well... he is allegating that Sieg has murdered someone quite 
 close to Victor... a girl called Siela (we later find that she was Victors' sister) and, as he could 
 not bear this injustice, Victor opted to avenge not just his closest friend, but the whole town 
 and neighbouring provinces... you later find that he intends to 'purify' humankind and all living 
 things by gathering all that is good and evil in one place... but... is Sieg really responsible for 
 Siela's death??? Why does Victor want to wreak havoc??? All is but a mystery until you go into 
 Chaos Legion bliss!!!
  
  Now seen as Sieg is an obidient little chap, he goes off on a perilous search for his friend-turned-fiend, 
 only to find that there are literally hundreds upon hundreds of weird and wonderful creatures willing 
 to stop him via any means possible... and those are just the common enemies, wait til you see the 
 end of level bosses!!! So Vicky is not just baking a cake, let me tell you that!!!
  
  On the way, Sieg rescues a charming little girl called Arcia... who is somewhat smitten by Sieg, 
 and decides to aid him in his quest... but for some reason Sieg does not instantly tell her the 
 reason of his mission... eventually he realises how much she cares for him, and confesses, and promises 
 to be with her every step of the way... aaahhh!!!!
  But they dont really have time to be lost in one anothers eyes do they!!!! They have a whole loada 
 monsters to kill!!$$%&pound;$!
  
  Now about the actual game itself... like I said, there is limited movement around teh course (minor 
 things like jumping onto a few high platforms, swimming, etc) although the 'boundries' are somewhat 
 of a saftey net, as they prevent you from falling off the edge of a cliff for example... I firs 
 thought there were only a few types of common enemy, but there are literally lots and lots... all 
 variable in size and strength and shape... and the bosses are really something to remember... but 
 as Sieg, you may summon your legions who aid you when you are stuck... entities such as arrogance, 
 malice and guilt.... and these delightful dudes really do make things easier when the going gets 
 tough... but only for Sieg.... Arcia is some one who is quite quite different... Now... when you get 
 to stage 9 of the game, you get to play Arcia for once... however, if you complete the game in normal 
 mode, you can play her via the whole game.... and this girl has two gunsa and martial arts skills!!! 
 So not a slasher/electricutor/legion summoner, but she does know how to deal with foes her way 
 (shoot/kick/gymnsatics)
  
  The music really rocks.... my current faves are 8 and 9.. cause there comes the drum bass and a few 
 (quizzicle) vocals... that add a bit more zest to the game... there are a few unlockables e. g. movies 
 and credits... but nothing new here... I guess there may be more, I just have to play the game till 
 the end!!!
  
  This is a really good game, compared to some PC hack and slashers... I dont say it is of the Legacy 
 of Kain calibre... but it is distinct in its nature and quite unique... the story line is really 
 attractive, though at times just a tad bit confusing (e. g. Victor coming out with all of these 
 wierd and wonderful sentences, trying to scare Sieg and Arcia out of their wits) ... but with stunning 
 graphics and easy t handle gameplay, it is one game I really like!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kingrich06
Rating: 3.3
Date: Jan 20, 2007 2:22 pm PT
Review:  What bugs me most about this game, is I played it on another platform and thought it was a fun 
 decent game. I guess some games are made for consoles and some are meant only for PCs, this game 
 is one of those games. The graphics are poor, the developers didnt even bother to add anything 
 worth while. There is no multi player. You cant even compare this game to the first Diablo let 
 alone Diablo II. I guess if youre a hack and slash type of player this game is for you, mind you 
 will not be doing it for long as this is a short game. I think it took me about a day to finish 
 it, thats a day I wished I played something else. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Celine_Aensland
Rating: 8.6
Date: Nov 23, 2006 4:21 pm PT
Review:  Despite being a port from the PS2, Chaos Legion play pretty much the same on the PC - awesomely.
 
  
  I've read so many official reviews that harp on the controls, the camera, the monsters, the graphics, 
 the protagonist (Seig) 's limited skillset, the comparison to Devil May Cry (another Capcom title 
 btw) , etc. What's up with those people? Don't they actually play the game for more than 5 minutes?
 
  
  It starts off a tad slow, I'll admit. Seig's moves are yet to be supplemented by the Legions, of 
 which he will gain one in the next few levels until the max is reached; upon which, through the 
 standard kill-for-exp process he will be able to unlock more moves (counters and finishers mostly) 
 as well as Legion Assists, depending on which two he has equipped at the time.
  
  There doesn't seem to be anything missing from the PS2 port - I own both versions and they play 
 exactly the same. So what's missing? I don't know. The bland scores and the across-the-board moaning 
 about being a clone seems to me that biased people fixated on the next Devil May Cry have drunk 
 too deeply from the marketing Kool Aid too see the merits of this game on its own.
  
  I heard it was originally specced as a tech demo, and I'll tell you this - it looks great. Sure, 
 there's the usual misting distance effect, but the enemies, which come at you thick and fast, never 
 pop-up and disappear or reappear suddenly like happens in, say, Dynasty Warriors. Other than poor 
 camera positioning (on the player's part) leading to surprise flank attacks, you'll be aware of 
 everything around you - helped also by the useful radar. Also, despite the so-called mist effect, 
 the textures create the illusion of a gothic environment very well. Technically, it's very good 
 as well - I've never seen any clipping in this game, not even when jammed in a corner, penned in 
 by a charging boss.
  
  One thing about the camera, if you use the lock-on controls a lot that can lead to confusion. I 
 bet this is the source of a lot of the gripes. What did you expect? This isn't a one-on-one beating 
 game. You can't allow your focus to be dictated by one opponent, when a whole bunch of them are 
 ganging on you, which is almost always the case. Also, the wide, swinging arc of Seig's massive 
 legion blade hit a very wide area around him - it's not the game's fault if you panic and force 
 him into a combo. The trick is to learn the timing, and STOP jamming that attack button. It isn't 
 a mindless shooter, dammit. If you see that your next attack will carry Seig a step forward too 
 far and you know he'll have his rear exposed to the crowd he just walked through, then quit mashing 
 attack and prepare to dodge, sidestep, or something. Jeez. Basic game mechanics 101.
  
  If the controls were TRULY bad, you'd get a lot of negative player reviews. But see? They are almost 
 uniformly all 8+, giving credence to the theory that official reviews have to pander to the hype 
 and graphics, and screw gameplay. If yet another GTA game came out and played like crap I bet they'd 
 still give it good reviews, since it's got shooting and picking up hoes, and oh, you can run around 
 mindlessly if you want! zomg! Blechh. GAMEPLAY is paramount, and if you're a graphicswhore you'd 
 be playing, I don't know, BF2 or something - instead of reading up on other games like this.
  
  The music is awesome. Hideyuki Fukasawa rocks. None of that rap, hiphop, or R&amp; B crap. Pump 
 up the bass and run with the adrenaline. It's a pretty fast paced game even when you're jammed 
 in one of the numerous traps where you need to destroy a spawner before being allowed to continue. 
 Sound effects are good, although the swish-swishing of gaining phantom life and phantom soul are 
 a tad overused.
  
  True, there isn't too much to miss on a single outing, but the different playable characters, as 
 well as slightly different level layouts depending on which legions you bring along, combined with 
 the extras and unlockables, make for decent replay value - just as in the original game. Even now, 
 years after, it's still fun to pick up the sword and start kicking Blasphemy (the Bomb Legion) 
 around. Can't say that to many games now, can you - and I don't count multiplayer: that's a cheap 
 and cheesy cop-out: I know! Let's include multiplayer so we don't have to program a decent AI! 
 Players will provide their OWN AI! And if they get pissed, they'll get angry at the others, not 
 the game! 
  
  This is a big reason why I hate multiplayer-centric games. I buy games to enjoy them at MY OWN 
 leisure, not to wait for hours on end just to find a decent opponent, not a horde of 13-year olds 
 who scream profanities or elite players out to crush all newbies and ruin all the fun. Chaos Legion 
 is a great game, and more than enough bang for your buck. Given its age, it'll be in bargain bins 
 now already - at $5 a pop, it's a steal. Do yourself a favour and get it, if you like the action 
 genre at all.
  
  Oh, and for a good official review, check this one out: http://worldzero. com/reviews/ChaosLegion. html
 
  
  - Ce. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sqrpnmaster
Rating: 9.4
Date: Nov 12, 2006 7:40 am PT
Review:  I honestly loved this game! It was one of my favorite games of all time. It is a really good game 
 to just sit down with and take all your agression out, or if your just looking for a good hack-and-slash 
 game. I love the Legions in this game, they are so cool. The graphics for this game are absolutely 
 beautiful! The bosses and the landscape, the Legions too are so well done, it is almost worth it 
 just to see the graphics! There is little to compare this work of art to. The sounds on it are 
 good too, they set sort of a creepy mood and when the bosses come in, it just breaks out! The gameplay 
 is similar to Devil May Cry with the exceptions that you can summon Legions to fight along side 
 of you. Also you dont change your sword. lol The only thing i cry about with the game is that it 
 is just too short! It only has a few levels and only like 6 legions. I would love it if a sequel 
 came out or just a re-make with more levels and more legions. Thanatos rocks my socks off! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: atif4ever
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jul 17, 2006 7:23 am PT
Review:  This is really very nice game. The sword combos and alies legions makes great combo and strategies 
 for defeaties dreadfull enimies. I liked this game so much that I completed it 4 times. Graphics 
 are not so good. But yet game is excellent.
  Game story is too very great. I liked the story too.
  I overall rate it 10 out of 10. So fantastic 
 that I have never played such a good game before.
  I have spent too much time in completeing it from every angle. I have played it in Normal and Difficult 
 modes. So I love to play this game again and again. Too great adventure, action game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: langrisser2005
Rating: 7.8
Date: Feb 22, 2007 7:22 pm PT
Review:  The Good: detailed model graphics, excellent soundtrack, challenging difficulty, varied gameplay.
 
  
  The Bad: relatively short length, environments are a bit cramped, game starts off slow.
  
  Chaos Legion has been labeled a Devil May Cry duplicate. I wouldn't know since I've never played 
 it, but it wouldn't matter as I don't judge games as rip-offs but each of their own. However I 
 can say that Chaos Legion is a great action packed game that deserves more than its credited for. 
 You are Sieg Wahreheit, dark knight for the glyphs. You mission is to find &amp; confront your 
 long time ally, Victor Delacroix, and bring him to justice for his crimes and stopping him from 
 purifying the world into Destruction. However the story is developed much further than Sieg's mission, 
 which uncovers as you seek Delacroix out. During Sieg's search he comes across Arcia Rinslet, a 
 maiden who decides to journey with Sieg to seek Delacroix for killing her family.
  
  Gameplay overall is good though it's quite slow at the beginning. When you start Sieg has only 
 one sword combination attack and one legion. A Legion is a soul creature from the dead that fights 
 along side with you, protecting you as you fight. As you progress through the stages you'll gain 
 more legions to use and gain experience which can be spent to upgrade your legions and improve 
 their stats. Also by improving legions it also improves Sieg as you gain new moves and abilities 
 as your legions get stronger. There are 7 different legions to choose from although your only aloud 
 to use 2 legions in each stage, which adds to the decision and difficulty to each stage.
  
  By gaining new moves and abilities through the legions you can also upgrade your health, legion 
 soul power, attack and defense power by collecting special items through each stage. Also hidden 
 items are spread throughout in each stage which requires certain legions power to find them.
  
  The graphics are good though they aren't the best looking on PC. However character, enemy &amp; 
 boss models are quite detailed. Sieg's and Arcia's outfits are quite defined and give them both 
 a unique look. The environments themselves do look a bit bland but do fit in well to the theme 
 of each stage. Animation is above par with enemy and boss movements looking great. Character movement 
 is decent though some animation movement lacks a bit in realism.
  
  The sound department though is where the game is at its best. The Music is done by Fukasawa Hideyuki 
 who did the music of Onimusha: Dawn Of Dreams. Most soundtracks are accustomed to a Gothic, Opera 
 and Rock mix which carry over exceedingly well with each piece fitting well to its set location. 
 I enjoyed the music that I got the Original Soundtrack to Chaos Legion, though you may not focus 
 on the music as much as you'll be too busy slashing away but the music adds well to the depth to 
 the dark gothic theme.
  
  The voice acting is decent to above average. During cut scenes the voice over acting are quite 
 good and fit par with the character involved. Sound effects are cool from sword swings to monster 
 screams which all sound great to add to the intensity within the game. Despite what Gamespot says, 
 there is replay value in this game. Once you've beaten the game on easy difficulty you get to unlock 
 movie clips, result screens and other goodies in the extras section. When you beat it on Normal 
 you unlock Arcia as a playable character as well as more goodies, plus the hard mode. If you manage 
 to finish the game on hard mode more extras are unlocked plus a super hard mode. Besides that you 
 can play through all the stages on Side B world which gives more challenge with harder enemies 
 and bosses. Also you can max your legions levels and gain experience including perfecting Thantaos's 
 Forms.
  
  If you have viewed at images and thought, that actually looks quite good, but wondered why Game 
 Critics gave Chaos Legion such a bad score I suggest you don't heed their advice, I didn't and 
 I'm glad for it. The PC version may suffer small frame issues when in big fights but no other differences 
 aside from the PS2 version. I really enjoyed Chaos Legion and if the game interests you then go 
 buy it. Plus the game is cheap you can pick it up for under $10 but If you can't find it anywhere 
 try EBay or a trading place. I got my copy from EBgames but the organization selling the game you 
 can get from (www. red-ant. com. au) . Chaos Legion may not be the best action game ever but, without 
 doubt a very fun and challenging one that will give great entertainment for it's duration from 
 beginning to end. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Vincent_lover
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 24, 2006 11:30 pm PT
Review:  I think Chaos Legion is a great game! The ability to take your anger out on poor spider like creatures 
 and drop kick bombs at things is wonderfully fun. The fact that you get all kinds of little guardians 
 is great! However, having to decide which ones to use and finding all those stupid keys to get 
 back your ultimate guardian and then build him back up is a pain in the backside. However, if 
 you ever need to blow off some steam I say this is the game! That and the background music is pretty 
 good too!
  
  The storyline of the game is pretty good too. A few plot twists here and there as they make you 
 think one thing and then later they reveal that they had you going totally down the wrong path. 
 The truth that is reveal is a very interesting and a nice change of pace 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LordofSilence
Rating: 9.2
Date: Mar 9, 2006 12:31 am PT
Review:  great game play It show us ....... about the story line it's some kind good but also it has to 
 be like the story line of onimusha that makes you exciting when playing the game but instead of 
 playing a boring game ..... she makes you happy with its features ............. in the movies of 
 the game the soung effects looks great and the graphics looks brilliant for the time it was produced 
 in so the game is a one that have positive features and some negative ones and for all it's a brilliant 
 game ........ but a think ... there isn't a next part of this game ..... let me ask .... why capcom 
 ????? we must have a second part        done 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Metallix666
Rating: 5
Date: Feb 23, 2006 1:43 pm PT
Review:  Well, the best thing about it, is the summon legion power, a lot of legions and the power to control 
 them. I liked, that the main character has a katana (i love katana's^.^) i liked, that it was made 
 like an anime type game. i liked the evil character, everyone has awesome hair and good abilities.
 
  Not the "i don't like" part:
  game is slow, i didn't like the part, that you can only walk, when summoned a legion, it was to easy 
 to beat, as i mentioned before - poor graphics. i didn't like the English voice's, they should heave 
 left the original ones, with sub titles..
  
  but a good game nevertheless 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lopo2006
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 16, 2006 10:30 am PT
Review:  here we are talking about a game that u can say about that it is horrible and fantastic what u 
 see in the is more diffrent than inside the game.
  
  Eneyone say that the game is terror don't beleave him the game is wonderfull someothers say that 
 it is to hard that's beacuse they don't know how to play it.
  
  it has a wonderfull grafic and wonderfull voice act and it's songs makes u want to play it.
  
 
  also it's stoy is good and better than good don't ever bealeave the score of gamespot.
  
  in this game u play with one chrachtar he has a sword and diffrent of monsters u can see that 
 with ur self. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Squall303
Rating: 7.6
Date: Jan 31, 2006 6:20 pm PT
Review:  Chaos Legion stars Sieg Wierhelt, a warrior with magical powers to control legions of demons to 
 battle the forces of evil. Battling against an old friend known as Victor Delacroix, Sieg must 
 harness the power of demon legions to stop Victor.
  
  I never actually finished the game because I lost patience but I do encourage anybody who's a fan 
 of Devil May Cry games to play Chaos Legion. It is a gret title if you have the patience. The biggest 
 problem I found was dying alot cuz how hard and seemingly impossible the game can be. Enemies come 
 in the hundreds to attack you and it isn't always so easy. You do alotta the same combos repeatedly 
 but the legion moves are awesome and just a pleasure to even watch. The computer AI are all quite 
 smart, both enemies and friends. Offering one heck of a challenge. If you have the patience, definitely 
 play this one.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: bqian90
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jan 16, 2006 12:46 am PT
Review:  I found this game addictive when I first played it. The graphics were flashy, and I'll admit, repetitive 
 at times. The controls are easy to learn, and this game is easy to play for the most part. I didn't 
 find any bugs, and there's a definite challenge in the game.
  
  Sound was immersive and appropriate for the game, but the replay value isn't that great. If you 
 miss something in a level, you can't replay the level and get it. Again, I think that the Gamespot 
 review was unfair. The game isn't perfect, but it deserves much better than a 4.5 
::::::

::::::
UserName: UchihaNajib
Rating: 8.3
Date: Nov 24, 2005 1:37 pm PT
Review:  i cannot believe that this game recieved such a low score. i very much enjoyed it and kept me in 
 the game, i never felt that this was boring or thought it lacked anything, clearly the people at 
 gamespot cant rate... sorry for hurting anyones feelings. for a solid action it was quiet good and 
 i loved it how i was able to use legions, which made the game more fun. and got me more invovled 
 so that i could get my legions stronger. that was what broke it apart from most action games. the 
 purpose of the game is to go around and recollect broken pieces of the ultamite legion and of course 
 trying to stop an old friend from destroying the world from the ultimate evil. i highly recommend 
 this game to anyone who would like to have a good action game. if you liked devil may cry than 
 you'll love chaos legion. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
