-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Chariots of War
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/strategy/chariotsofwar/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Jun 27, 2003
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 6
Critic Score: 5.9, 19 Review (s)
User Score: 7.3, 59 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Strategy First
Developer: Slitherine Soft.
Genre: Historic Real-Time...
Date:     March 2003
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Chariots of War may be an improvement on Legion, but there are better options out there if you enjoy 
 historical strategy games like these. 

  Chariots of War is essentially a revision of Legion. The new turn-based strategy game from Slitherine 
 Software and Paradox Entertainment updates last year's disappointing ancient-Rome strategy game 
 with new civilizations and more-satisfying empire-building options. The end result is something 
 of a poor man's Civilization, except with a simplistic and problematic combat engine, a lack of 
 real depth, and an absence of multiplayer options.  

          Empire building was a messy job in the ancient world.     

  At least Slitherine and 
 Paradox have beefed up the Legion engine in every respect. Where Legion was a cut-rate look at 
 the Roman Empire, with little in the way of strategy beyond setting up army formations and gathering 
 the resources needed to build soldiers, its successor has a broader scope. Virtually every civilization 
 from the ancient Near East is included for your conquering pleasure. The game has 10 playable nations, 
 from the famed Egyptians and Babylonians to lesser-known entities like the Scythians and Hittites, 
 along with another 50 or so less-prominent factions such as the Israelis and Bedouin.  

  The game is structured similarly to Paradox's award-winning Europa Universalis series, in that 
 you can choose to guide any civilization on the map, although some are so weak in comparison with 
 their neighbors that they're not very compelling unless you're really, really looking for a challenge. 
 More than 200 authentic cities and settlements in historically accurate provinces can be plundered 
 in the six solo campaigns. You can fight to unite Egypt, wage war over the Levant, conquer the 
 cradle of civilization in Mesopotamia, direct the Hittites to mastery in Anatolia, or go after 
 the whole region in the two grand campaigns.  

  So Chariots of War does have some pretty impressive breadth, but unfortunately, it doesn't have 
 nearly as much depth. While Slitherine and Paradox may have spread out the game design, encompassing 
 a lot of themes and gameplay mechanics embraced by large-scale strategy games like Civilization 
 and Europa Universalis, Chariots of War is a pretty superficial game, and it has some serious flaws. 
 For instance, everything is focused on combat. Building an empire is wholly dependent on conquering 
 your neighbors, to the point where you can't establish new settlements or colonies. If you want 
 a new town, you have to use troops to take an existing one.  

          Building cities and gathering resources are secondary to waging war.     

  That wouldn't 
 be an issue if the battle engine weren't so unsatisfying. As in Legion, you don't take a hands-on 
 approach to battles. Instead, you set up formations, plan out how units will attack and when, and 
 then watch helplessly and hope you're victorious. The game has other options with regard to attack 
 plans and specific formations when dealing with chariots, but being unable to make changes in the 
 midst of a rout is as frustrating as ever, especially since you always lose your entire army in 
 the event of a defeat. The game's artificial intelligence adds to this frustration, since it always 
 seems to know the location of your weak points and will hone in on them unerringly. This makes 
 the campaigns rather challenging, at least, and turns planning into more of an ongoing concern, 
 since you can't just build dozens of units and steamroll enemy towns. But it's a shame that the 
 game apparently has to bend the rules with inhumanly precise AI enemies to offer up this challenge. 
     

  Building an army in Chariots of War isn't all that interesting either, at least after you've done 
 it once or twice. The unit types aren't diverse enough to represent the dozens of civilizations 
 featured in the game. Some are restricted -- such as the Medjay skirmishers and the Sea Peoples warband -- but 
 even these "unique" units are confined only to specific groups of nations. The Medjays are available 
 to all the Nubian affiliations, the Sea Peoples are open to all tribal groups, and so on. There 
 isn't nearly as much variety as you might hope for, especially since the game is billed as an epic 
 clash between dozens of ancient civilizations.  

          Battle planning must be completed before your troops take the field.     

  Combat isn't 
 everything in Chariots of War, although you might be able to call it the only thing. While resource 
 collection is necessary, at least five of the nine different resource types are directly related 
 to the production of military units, and all nine are gathered automatically as soon as you build 
 the appropriate structures -- though at least the resource model takes geography into account. For 
 instance, wood and horses are both scarce and highly valuable resources in the game, as they were 
 in the Near East at the time.  

  All resources are uncommon enough that trade and diplomacy are essential. This also nicely captures 
 historical reality, as goods were traded all across the Near East in antiquity, and diplomatic 
 relations were crucial to keeping people supplied with food and frankincense. But the game's trade 
 and diplomatic interfaces are both inadequate. Neither feature is covered in the tutorial -- though 
 the tutorial itself isn't really helpful anyway -- which suggests that these interfaces were tossed 
 in at the last minute. Trade is essentially a spreadsheet that accounts for purchases and sales. 
 Diplomacy involves sending an ambassador to a neighboring state, whereupon you gain some useless 
 information about its attitude toward you and learn the identity of its worst enemy. Since your 
 relationship with foreign powers is all about military capability and posture, it's hard to see 
 the point of bothering with diplomacy at all, outside of standard trading.  

          Once the action starts, all you can do is cross your fingers and hope you win.     

 
  Finally, the production values are low in Chariots of War. The game's dated 2D graphics make city 
 development a lifeless chore, and the battlefield graphics feature choppy animations that make 
 your troops look they're goose-stepping, Highland dancing, or performing some strange combination 
 of the two. The game's sound is sparse, consisting mainly of foreign-sounding grunts from armies 
 and generic music that sounds like something from a late-night movie with togas and Steve Reeves. 
 And there is no multiplayer support whatsoever, online or off. You're stuck with the solo campaigns. 

  Add all this up and you have a game that improves upon Legion with more breadth, but still has 
 a number of problems. Chariots of War may be an improvement on Legion, and it may focus on an often-neglected 
 part of history in the early Near East civilizations, but there are better options out there if 
 you enjoy historical strategy games like these.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (3 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: RedneckGamer87
Rating: 7
Date: Sep 6, 2007 2:23 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay: So in Chariots of war, it has being improved from Legions original gameplay this time. 
 It is structured similarly to Paradox's award-winning Europa Universalis series, in that you can 
 choose to guide any civilization on the map, although some are so weak in comparison with their 
 neighbors that they're not very compelling unless you're really, really looking for a challenge. 
 More than 200 authentic cities and settlements in historically accurate provinces can be plundered 
 in the six solo campaigns. You can fight to unite Egypt, wage war over the Levant, conquer the 
 cradle of civilization in Mesopotamia, direct the Hittites to mastery in Anatolia, or go after 
 the whole region in the two grand campaigns. In the grand campaign maps are absolutly huge and 
 are many diffrent tribes/fractions you fight against that it many take many hours to conquer the 
 whole map. In terms of gameplay, like I said before is similer to Legion but the diplomatic, trade, 
 building ect has being improved. But I'm sad to say that the battles sequnces have not. It's still 
 the same line up your troops and have no control over them to manuver them over the battle field. 
 Like before this is a purly a military production game of which you build your army up and then 
 conqur nabouring tribes.
  
  Graphics: The graphics have being improved in the game. Everything is more polished like the maps, 
 buildings, pop up screens ect. The coloring is quite well done too. The carnage and blood after 
 the battles are still quite nice to see.
  
  Sound: The soundtrack for the game is great, it is middle eastern themed and nice to listen to. 
 Also the sound effects and voice acting are not bad either this time around.
  
  Value: Well all in all this is definatly an improvment from the legion games that come out before 
 Chariots of War. This game will keep your quite busy for a number of hours, if you are doing the 
 grand campaign. The replay value of this game is ok, you can play as differnt nations and try dominating 
 the maps in diffrent ways. The reason why I got this game is because it was a anciet turn based/RTS 
 mixed style game which was before the days of Rome: Total War. But I hope oneday that the makers 
 of the Total war series will come out with a total war game which has a middle eastern theme to 
 it. I give this game 7.0 out of 10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Canadiancowboy2
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 16, 2005 7:35 pm PT
Review:  This game is not all that bad to what people rate this game as. People compare this game to other 
 games that are not turn based which this game is which is like compareing Apples and Peaches which 
 are two diffrent things. When you first load up this game and look at the Grand campine it will 
 just shock you on how big it is because it cover all of the middle east from Tuckey and Egypt all 
 the way to Pakistan and Kakistan and all the other countrys in between. You can do smaller campains 
 in this game. The city bulding in this game is muched improved from legion and is most complexed 
 buy haveing trading networks and other stuff. The fighting in the game intresting there is blood 
 and guts when people fall and when men run away, but once you set up your men up on the battleidle 
 there is no way of controlling them which is relistic because back then there was no way or bearly 
 any way for a commander to control his men so i like it. So if you like turn based stratigy games 
 go get this game along with Sparta which is the third installment of this series. Also get Rome 
 total war and the Barbarian Expantion. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Arcana
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jul 14, 2004 3:41 pm PT
Review:  A common problem arising in the rating of games occurs because of the unfair comparison of "apples 
 and oranges" : if a gamer has a passion for apples (such as Age of Mythology, Rise of Nations) , 
 he will tend to be biased against oranges (such as much slower, turn-based strategy games) . Is 
 it really fair to rate the latter genre in comparaison to the much more popular RTS genre ? It's 
 a relativistic question of taste : many prefer the fast-paced action of RTS, and a minority of 
 obsessive-compulsive managers loves quiet, careful, slow-paced empire-building games of the TBS 
 genre. 
  
  I did play CoW's precursor (Legion) and I find that CoW represents a great evolution of Legion's 
 style of strategy and play, and I look forward to trying out the third title in the series (Spartan) . 
 I believe that CoW has to be compared to Legion, not to Age of Empires. Of course, if you didn't 
 like Legion's style because you prefer Rise of Nation's style, you won't enjoy CoW (or Spartan) . 
 
  
  Chariots of War adds a lot of new content to its predecessor (Legion) .
  
  If you play the Grand Campaign (which covers the whole Middle East : from Sudan to Arabia to Turkey 
 to Iran) , you will be immediately awestruck by the immensity of the map : there are about 200 "cities", 
 distributed in more than 70 regions, with a lot of different and precise nations to play (for example, 
 you don't just play the Egyptians : you select Egyptians of the North or Egyptians of the South, 
 which corresponds to the correct fact that the Egyptian region had a "lower" part and an "upper" 
 part before it was unified in one single kingdom) . Consequently, you can start from many angles, 
 in this widespread map, and try out many different nations and ethnic types.
  
  Diplomacy is better. You must send diplomats (who have to take the time to travel and who gain 
 experience) to influence other countries instead of simply clicking on a button to abstractly cultivate 
 very basic forms of foreign relations (give tribute : make the other guy happy) . The manual states 
 that the diplomatic model uses "a complicated equation that takes 4 main factors into account" 
 (trust, common cause, opportunity, threat) , so I can't easily resort to my usual tactic from Legion, 
 which consisted of regularly sending small gifts of resources to a foreign nation to make it shift 
 from orange to yellow to lime.
  
  Operating armies in the field is more realistic and challenging. In Legion, you had no economic 
 penalty if you moved an army in the field, outside of a city. Consequently, I could mobilize and 
 make converge most of my armies, on turn one, to march towards a neighbor to crush him : the Italian 
 peninsula beign so narrow, it did not take too much time and it didn't cost anything more than 
 if you let your armies sit idle in a city. Whereas, in CoW, some starting positions (such as where 
 Saudi Arabia is now located) impose greater mobilization distances. But more significantly, armies 
 operating in the field must be supplied with important amounts of food, which is much more realistic 
 and challenging.
  
  The economic model is more complex. There are more types of resources than in most empire-building 
 games (including RTS) : gold, food, building materials, wood, copper, tin, incense, horses, gems. 
 There is a dynamic, regional market which obeys to the law of supply and demand : so prices will 
 fluctuate instead of being static (such as in the HoMM series) .
  
  To those who do not like the tactical-combat model (which is still quite like the one in Legion) , 
 because the gamer cannot micromanage each battle on the field, I will say that Ancient warfare 
 worked that way : two armies met and once the general orders had been given by the commanders, 
 there was very little they could do besides watching (from a hill, in the rear) the more or less 
 chaotic execution of their plan. In CoW, there are no legendary heroes to inspire and rally the 
 troops (as it was the case in some battles of Antiquity : heroes such as Alexander, Hannibal, Julius 
 Caesar) , but for the most part the Legion/CoW tactical-battle model is much more "realistic" than 
 the RTS one, where the gamer is set as a kind of celestial deity who has the power to directly 
 command each and every unit of the field, in real-time.
  
  To make a long story short, I strongly recommend CoW to those of you who want a slow-paced holiday 
 from the wrist-and-index frenzy of RTS. Chariots is much better than Legion, and its tactical battles 
 are certainly much more entertaining than those in many other turn-based games (such as Galactic 
 Civilizations and Warlords IV) .
  
  
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
