-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Chaser
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/action/chaser/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Aug 26, 2003
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8
Critic Score: 7.0, 24 Review (s)
User Score: 7.9, 471 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Encore Software, Inc.
Developer: Cauldron Ltd.
Genre: Sci-Fi First-Person...
Date:     2003
ESRB: Mature

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Chaser may not always be slick, but it offers loads of thrilling, old-school shooter action. 
 

  Some games are too clever by half. Today's technology allows game designers so much leeway for 
 creativity that they sometimes get caught up in adding bells and whistles to a game without ever 
 creating a core of fun gameplay first. With the near-future shooter Chaser, Slovakian developer 
 Cauldron has made a game that might not be the flashiest out there, but is one with a whole lot 
 of heart. It doesn't break much new ground, and it's not as polished as it should be, but it offers 
 loads of thrilling, old-school shooter action.  

          Our hero gets into even more trouble.     

  Chaser opens with cinematic verve aboard 
 a massive space station orbiting Earth sometime in the near future. As the opening credits roll, 
 two small ships roar toward the station. As soon as they dock, armed troops in body armor and menacing 
 masks pour into the station. Meanwhile, in a medical lab elsewhere aboard the station, the amnesiac 
 hero of the game, John Chaser, suffers through frightening flashbacks as he lies on an examining 
 table. The flood of disturbing images awakens Chaser, who's serving as some sort of test subject 
 in an experiment we can only guess at. Just as Chaser groggily gets to his feet, the troops come 
 barreling around the corner toward the lab. When they spot Chaser, they open fire, missing our 
 hero but setting off a chain reaction that threatens the entire station.  

  And with that, the chase is on as you try to escape the station with your life. With a nod to Half-Life 
 (and countless sci-fi movies) , conduits burst around you, electric arcs from broken relay panels 
 dance across the floor, and huge support beams coming crashing down around your head. As if that 
 weren't enough, there seems to be an enemy soldier at every turn. Fortunately, you grab one of 
 their guns early on, and for the rest of the opening level, you blast your way to freedom in one 
 fast-paced firefight after another.  

  From there, it's back to Earth, where you get mixed up with the Mafia and the Yakuza, engage in 
 countless fierce firefights in varied locales, do a little infiltration and espionage work, and 
 ultimately head to Mars to uncover the secret behind Chaser's past. The story leads you into political 
 intrigue at the highest levels, with an evil political and business cartel trying to eradicate 
 rebel freedom fighters on Mars.  

  None of this is particularly original, but developer Cauldron knows how to milk a proven clich 
 for all it's worth. For instance, the opening sequence aboard the space station sounds -- and ultimately 
 is -- hackneyed, but it's handled quite nicely. The intro cinematic is crafted with directorial flair, 
 using some exciting camera angles and editing to create a fun action sequence that also shows just 
 how confused the hero is.  

          Blood flows freely in Chaser.     

  The gameplay that immediately follows the intro movie is filled with nonstop action. Some shooters 
 try to get fancy with all kinds of clever cutscenes, scripted events, and role-playing elements, 
 and sometimes those work spectacularly. But ultimately, shooters are action games, and without 
 exciting action, you don't have much to build on. Fortunately, you get into one blazing firefight 
 after another during Chaser's first mission -- and indeed in almost every mission. Guards pop out 
 of doorways and ambush you from behind crates, and cross fire erupts at intersections. A warehouse 
 shootout during a later mission is so over the top, so outrageously violent, that it would make 
 John Woo proud. In another highlight of the game, you engage in a long, running gun battle in a 
 luxury hotel. Glass shatters as grenades and bullets fly every which way, steam pipes vent with 
 a hiss when they get hit, and blood splatters the walls as the bodies pile up. It feels like a 
 cross between a Quentin Tarantino movie and the famous lobby battle in  The Matrix . In fact, Chaser 
 includes an "adrenaline mode" that lets you slow time like in that film or Max Payne. It's not 
 necessary for success, and combat is usually more exciting at full speed, but it's a nice option 
 to have for particularly tough encounters.  

  Chaser's villains aren't brilliant, but they act smartly enough to provide a real challenge. They'll 
 frequently take cover, and they have aim that's good enough to keep you on your toes -- or rather, 
 keep you ducking behind pillars and crates. They're also placed very well throughout the levels 
 to ensure some fun surprises. Between the placement of enemies and the frequency and pacing of 
 the firefights, Chaser at times bears a surprising resemblance to Doom, but with smarter enemies 
 and real-world weapons. That's no small praise.     

  Since Chaser is an old-school shooter at heart, you'll find just enough carefully placed body armor 
 and health kits lying around for when you get shot up. You'll also find plenty of ammo, which further 
 encourages wild firefights as you blithely unload whole clips into your enemies. Just as importantly, 
 the gigantic levels are designed to encourage dramatic crossfires, and they're also set up so that 
 you're almost constantly on the move. You rarely have to worry about getting lost or becoming stuck 
 when you can't find an exit or can't solve some arbitrary puzzle. Here you mainly run, shoot, and 
 then run and shoot some more.  

          Breakable glass adds to the mayhem.     

  As fun as all the combat can be, there's no denying that Chaser has some odd, awkward, or downright 
 incoherent elements. One of them is that you encounter space ships and orbital stations, but you 
 mostly fight with weapons of the late 20th century, like a Colt M4 assault rifle. It makes little 
 sense, and it's kind of unfortunate that you get only a few semi-futuristic weapons to play with. 
 But the real-world arsenal you do get has the benefit of familiarity -- the wide assortment of pistols, 
 submachine guns, assault rifles, and sniper rifles could have been taken from the latest Rainbow 
 Six game. While they might be mundane, they're wonderfully modeled and allow for wild and brutal 
 firefights, whether you're blasting some goon at point-blank range with a shotgun or launching 
 a grenade into a crowd of bad guys and watching them fly.  

  The heart of Chaser is really its huge single-player campaign, which offers loads of gunplay but 
 also some welcome changes of pace, like when you have to run unarmed like a wild man through a 
 spaceport as security guards chase you. The game nonetheless does include some multiplayer modes, 
 too: deathmatch, team deathmatch, capture the flag, and an objective-based mode reminiscent of 
 Counter-Strike. While these aren't anything special, they're a welcome bonus.  

  Visually, Chaser is darn impressive for an unheralded game from a small developer. The proprietary 
 CloakNT graphics engine smoothly renders absolutely enormous levels with highly detailed textures 
 and convincing lighting. The character animations tend to be a bit jerky, and clipping problems 
 mean that you can shoot a character and watch him fall to the floor and then fall  through  the 
 floor. Despite problems like that, what's really impressive about Chaser is the developer's eye 
 for visually dramatic scenes, like when you stand in a grubby futuristic slum at the beginning 
 of the second mission. As you look up, enormous, gleaming skyscrapers provide a vivid contrast 
 to the grime and graffiti at street level. But what really grabs your eye are the massive, fiery 
 chunks of the destroyed space station from the first mission streaking through the atmosphere and 
 slamming into the buildings overhead as sirens wail in the distance. Along with such set pieces, 
 the kaleidoscopic, jump-cut flashbacks that afflict your character are cleverly done and genuinely 
 surprising and creepy the first time they appear during gameplay. Despite clunky dialogue and a 
 flimsy cyberpunk story, the lengthy cutscenes can also be fun to watch because of their slick, 
 film-based visual style. (They load surprisingly quickly too, which is always a plus.)  

          One of the many nice lighting effects in Chaser.     

  Chaser's audio has its faults, 
 but it's very effective overall. On the one hand, the voice-overs are suspect -- the hero sounds 
 like a bad John Wayne impersonator, for example. On the other hand, the music effectively matches 
 the scenes and helps set the mood. Most importantly, the sounds of weapons fire, ricocheting bullets, 
 and explosions are loud, powerful, convincing, and highly immersive.  

  These sorts of things help make the gun battles in this game genuinely visceral and exciting -- much 
 more so than in many shooters. On the other hand, with its hodgepodge setting, clunky story, and 
 minor bugs, Chaser certainly isn't the slickest or most imaginative shooter out there. But despite 
 its surface flaws, Chaser has what ultimately counts the most: a core of exciting, addictive action. 
     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (26 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: zubidoo
Rating: 6
Date: Nov 8, 2007 10:19 am PT
Review:  Chaser is an enigma in the world of FPS games because virtually nobody bought it, and yet it has 
 some of the best old-school multiplayer gameplay in any FPS game (if you can get it working properly) . 
 Unfortunately what could have been an outstanding game has turned into a flawed and almost broken 
 multiplayer gem. It's not the best game ever, but if you can get enough people to get a sizable 
 LAN game going and you are able to avoid some of the lag and bugs, then you're probably going to 
 have a good time.
  
  Chaser's gameplay is like your typical old-school shooter, and surprisingly almost all of the weapons 
 are a blast to use (especially in multiplayer) . They are all very conventional (sniper rifles, 
 grenade launchers, pistols, machine guns, grenades etc) , but they are all modeled very well and 
 sound great. There are no power-ups really (except in single-player, but even that power-up isn't 
 all that useful) , but you have your usual medkits and body armors scattered about the levels. To 
 be honest, the weapons are basically the reason you're even going to be able to get through the 
 single-player as they are all very satisfying to use and the campaign itself is VERY long and not 
 THAT great story-wise or atmosphere-wise (no really memorable events) . The sniper rifle with night-vision 
 (honestly I'm not sure what it's supposed to emulate) is especially fun to use in a LAN match. 
 The most important part about the weapons is that they are all very balanced (except, maybe, for 
 the grenade launcher) and somehow the no-recoil scheme works well in keeping the action engaging 
 and easier to handle for newcomers. The campaign itself is very long and definitely boring and 
 tedious at various spots with some bugs and glitches appearing every so often. There is nothing 
 new at all with the gameplay as it is just like every other FPS game before it. It is pretty challenging, 
 and although it is reasonably fun the first time through, I highly doubt that you will ever want 
 to beat it again - the multiplayer is where the game shines and is where the 6.0 is mainly coming 
 from. The only downside to the multiplayer is that it can pretty laggy (even if you are hosting 
 a LAN game - wtf?) , and also there are VERY few maps to play on (like 8 total) . However, these 
 maps happen to be VERY well-made and don't really get too tiring. They aren't quite like CTF_Face 
 from Unreal Tournament, but they will definitely entertain you if you give them a chance.
  
  Graphically the game is pretty decent, although the lighting is noticably mediocre. Some singleplayer 
 levels repeat a LOT and this gets pretty annoying, but overall you shouldn't dislike the environments 
 greatly. The multiplayer levels are easily the best examples of how good the artists for this game 
 can get as most of the levels are very well-designed and just look good in general. Some of the 
 them are on par with solid old-school Quake II or even UT levels. The menu screen is actually noticably 
 well-designed and stands out for some odd reason (normally you wouldn't think it'd be that interesting) . 
 It's a variety of blue colors with 3D figures in the background and it just looks very professional 
 and cool. On the whole, though, the graphical presentation is pretty mediocre-to-good, but nothing 
 is really bad per se.
  
  The story itself is pretty average and really isn't all that great. The ending is definitely a 
 letdown. Needless to say it's very forgettable and it isn't going to be the reason really that 
 you want to finish the single-player (the average A. I. and the fun weapons are) . You start off 
 in a space station and head down to the planet after that, with various trips to alien planets 
 following this. I don't want to spoil any of the story because there is very little to spoil in 
 the first place, but let's just say that you aren't going to be wow ed by it ever.
  
  The soundtrack is actually pretty good for an unknown game. The menu music sounds particularly 
 inspired and unique and is just a cool little ambient tune in its' own right. The rest of the music 
 is fairly catchy and, although nothing REALLY stands out, it suits the atmosphere pretty decently. 
 The sound of each weapon firing is especially well done, as are all of the jumping and reloading 
 effects. You can tell that they loved old-school deathmatch games and really knew how to make weapons 
 that were a blast to use (though still not quite UT quality) . Overall it's a little uneven but, 
 like the graphics, mediocre-to-good (with the menu music being kind of great) .
  
  All in all Chaser had the potential to be a great shooter, and its' main life blood is its' multiplayer 
 (when you can get it to work right) . If you can get enough people to get like a 16 player deathmatch 
 or team deathmatch game going (or objective match) , you will probably have a lot of fun. It's not 
 as great as Counter-Strike or Unreal Tournament, but it's good enough to play with friends if you 
 want something fresh to play for a while. The game is unfortunately pretty buggy and laggy enough 
 of the time, and this, coupled with its' average singleplayer and its' lack of enough multiplayer 
 maps, is why it gets a 6.0 (the fact that the game is actually laggy even if you are making your 
 own LAN server is pretty bad. When it all works, though, it's very fun stuff) . I'd recommend giving 
 it a try if you can get a sizable LAN party together as you are going to have a hell of a time 
 finding ANYBODY online to play with. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fbasque78
Rating: 7.5
Date: Aug 30, 2007 5:15 pm PT
Review:  Chaser has old-school shooter written all over it. When it came out in 2003, the norms in the FPS 
 genre was : limit the player to cary a certain amount of weapons, put armor and medkits in logical 
 locations and have a compass (or something similar) to point you to your next ojective. In Chaser, 
 you can carry all the weapons that you pick up, the medkits and armor can lay on the ground for 
 no apparent reason and there's no indicator to where you need to go next. The latter is troublesome 
 because some of the levels in Chaser are incredibly huge, and sometimes you need to pull lever 
 or activate a certain object in order to move ahead, and it's not always clearly indicated. Some 
 levels are overly long and you get sick of seeing the same textured walls, but in all fairness 
 some levels do actually look fantastic for 2003.
  
  The guns are fairly good and the gun-play is fun, there's no ragdoll effects but your foes do have 
 nice generic death animations. There's blood in this game but it's not over the top. The AI of 
 your foes can be good sometimes but most of the time they will just stiffly run right to left in 
 order to make you work to kill them. There's a nice Bullet-Time mode that makes certain situation 
 a lot easier but it's not as well done as other games that uses it (Max Payne) . The graphics are 
 a mixed bag. Some levels looks great and others uses the same bland texture and objects. The character 
 models looks good for 2003 but the animation itself is lacking. The hand animations of John Chaser 
 (the guy you control) when he switches from weapon to weapon are really cool, that's something 
 i noticed right away.
  
  The sound is average and the techno music is hit or miss depending on the level you are in. The 
 voice-acting hovers between bad to cheesy. The sound effects are decent but nothing spectacular 
 (COD spoiled us all in the department) .
  
  The really strong point of the game is the story. It will make you wanna play those long levels 
 just to see what happens next. The game can be challenging sometimes, but the bullet-time can swing 
 the table to your favor if used wisely.
  
  I'm glad I gave this game a try, in the end I came for the guns but stayed for the story. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: djbola
Rating: 9.7
Date: Aug 13, 2007 5:56 am PT
Review:  The Story... A man wakes up in the middle of a Medical Spaceship, everyone is dead, he becames 
 envolved in a shoot out, hes hunted and acomplish to escape the spaceship... Now its time to know 
 whats going here...
  
  Chaser its a Old School Action Game, much like the movies from Silvester Stalone or Arnol Shwiznegher 
 in the 80's and 90's... But this games its more psichologic, intriguing and Shocking than the normal 
 Bad Ass Son of a Gun that never dies and kills all the Bad Guys and wrecks half of the country... 
 Like more an amnesian Killer that its on the run to know why hes being hunted by everyone... In 
 a Shyco Future where the Ciber Punk its the Fashion and the Law its Corrupted...
  Right in the begining the actions starts and it only stops when the game is over to the end...
 
  The graffics aren't amasing but they aren't so bad neither, Lots and Lots of Guns (around the 
 30) and some of them are really amasing (handgun, grenade laucher, AK-74, Famas, Infrared Sniper) ... 
 The levels... well... there are some lousy and uninspired levels, but there is good levels too... 
 and great ones, like in mars, escaping the prision, almost like in Chronicles of Riddic Escaping 
 From Butcher Bay...
  The game it's enormous, almost 40 Levels, have great cut scenes, the story its always overturning, 
 like an epic movie from Spilberg, only tht it's Recorded with a Normal Camera... you never know 
 what happens next, in a level you're protecting someone, in the other you're doublecrossed and 
 make him taste your revenge, or, you are against someone and you'll turn good friends... Its Crazy!
 
  In Conclusion Chaser is THE GAME... excluding some levels and graffical bugs, this is the best 
 action game in the bizness, no Halo or Half Life as the complexity, and in the same time, much 
 action as this game, a briliant step from JoWooD... I guive this Game Score 9.7! Its Darn Good! 
 Its a Master Piece! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JackBurton
Rating: 8.3
Date: Aug 11, 2007 4:15 am PT
Review:  Perhaps this game's biggest flaw, other than the voice-acting, is had it been released 2 years 
 earlier, in 2001, Chaser would've been better received by critics and the gaming community. Even 
 so, it's an ambitious effort, worthy of applause, from a small-time Studio. Chaser features some 
 very large levels, (some are enormous and a compass would've helped on a couple of them) filled 
 with plenty of open-ended game play options throughout the maps. Player's may run-and-gun or stealth 
 your way, or both, though the levels, most of which are done well, with only a very few that feel 
 like filler. It's also quite a long game too, offering at least 35-40 hours of game time to complete. 
 (Writer's rant: Where have all the 30+ hour games gone?!) Weapons are nicely modeled w/ good sound. 
 The AI is better than average, even by modern standards, and will offer a few memorable firefights 
 along the way. A bullet-time inspired mode is available too, though you may only need to use it 
 a few times through the course of the game. The music score, which is pretty good, seems heavily 
 influenced by the works of film-maker John Carpenter. Upon playing Chaser, received as an Xmas 
 gift in 03, I found it to be surprisingly good, almost shockingly so, for a title which I had no 
 previous knowledge of it's existence. Graphics are still quite playable, with the only annoyance 
 being recurring character models. In summary: If you're looking for a break from the linear and 
 heavily scripted; WWII based; tactical; squad-based; game-play of modern games and back to some 
 nicely done Old-school-style action, without going too far back in time to do so, (if you can find 
 it) Chaser is definitely worth playing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thrasher505
Rating: 7.1
Date: Jul 22, 2007 9:08 pm PT
Review:  this is a fun game for someone who likes lots of fast action in different locations. the levels 
 are very similar but they look pretty as all hell and every one of the incredibly numerous kills 
 feels nice and rewarding with plentiful blood fx. especially the wall splatter. the downside to 
 this game is that when its difficult, its downright infuriating. i'd suggest using the quicksave 
 as often as you can remember to press f6. at times the game gets difficult to the point that it 
 goes from challenging to downright unenjoyable. which is unfortunate considering how fantastic 
 the good parts are. the only other thing of note is the ending. i won't give anything away but 
 i felt it was incredibly unsatisfying, especially after the difficulty of the last couple of levels. 
 kinda left me thinking well, why the hell did i go through all that just so this could happen to 
 my character? but thats just me. i know other ppl found it to be a refreshing twist. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TwiiLight
Rating: 4.2
Date: Jun 17, 2007 4:50 pm PT
Review:  This game is so incredibly easy to get sick of. How anyone manages to get through it without simply 
 giving up out of boredom is beyound me. I didn't even make it up past roughly seven levels before 
 I had seen enough. The game may have come at a cheap price, but even then, it still didn't really 
 live up to the price. The cutscenes were weird, and the voicing was the worst I have ever ever 
 heard. I guess if what you're into is old school, 'run into the room and shoot everything that 
 moves, then repeat' sort of game I guess this may your cup of tea, but otherwise, I'd avoid it. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: travellinguist
Rating: 8.3
Date: Dec 2, 2006 9:34 pm PT
Review:  I found myself challenged by Chaser and always involved with it. The length of the game was great 
 and there were fun different challenges involved in completing missions. Of course one mission 
 held me up about 6 months (because I gave up on it finding it so frustrating) but once I got passed 
 it and back to shooting, sniping etc. I found myself in love again. The ending to this game is 
 great and totally unexpected. Although the storytelling is not Blizzard level it is definitely 
 intriguing and keeps your interest. I enjoyed it and would have fun playing online if I were able 
 to do that with my slow computers, but probably would not replay the entire game for a long while. 
 That is a drawback but oh well. It is a cost effective fun ride. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dremun
Rating: 6.8
Date: Nov 8, 2006 12:13 pm PT
Review:  Well when I first got the game about 2 weeks ago and I even found as a bargain 3 years after it 
 was released. I was hoping that it would have been a really good game, but alas it was much less 
 than outstanding, in fact there were many times that I just put it down and almost did not get 
 back to it. Even more so when you had to go through the one level that even had two parts to it 
 swimming or what ever you want to call it through the sunken ship wreck. At point it just plain 
 ole gave me a head ache, that level got me so ticked off that just resorted to the cheat code to 
 give my self 1000 points for health &amp; armor, if I could have skipped that level I would have 
 in a heart beat. Other than the water level, it really was not bad and a good way to kill time! 
 The voice acting was very poor, it might have been better without it? And when I first heard Chaser's 
 Voice all I could think was dam he sounds so wimpy, which brings me to the difficulty of the game, 
 I even had it set to hard and I still had an easy time of it. Which really enforced the idea of 
 just wimpy Chaser is it was like playing F. E. A. R. on Easy, the music playing through out the game 
 kept reminding me of an old SciFi flick that was on or about Mars or something like that. The bullet 
 time was a nice touch yeah I know it was an idea from Max Payne. But still it was one aspect of 
 the game that kind of made it a little more interesting to play.
  
  The weapons were okay, not futuristic at all, more like hyped up modern day weapons, there only 
 three that I really used throughout the game, and the rest were really not worth it other to only 
 hold onto a hand gun. But even so you almost had a limitless amount of ammo when you killed the 
 bad guys, which leads into the AI, there times when the AI shot me when not even looking at me. 
 Or even better yet the AI saw me was shooting me before they turned around, or the times when the 
 AI was half way through a corner wall and could see and shoot me. The AI even reminded me of Doom 
 3 when they just charged you shooting which game me more than a good target to shoot, half the 
 time I just shot the head one or twice and saved my self a butt load of ammo. As for the graphics, 
 I lost count on how many times one map would blend in with the one I was in, one time I even hit 
 an invisible wall and the map just going on like I was looking into two apposing mirrors. I had 
 to close and restart the game just so I can keep going, and off the different vehicles in the game, 
 you could not use any of them though they did look pretty good and all. I gotta give it to them 
 on the maps, they were very big which I liked a lot, but there was no way to go around and flank 
 the AI for the most part, well no yes there was, when trying to get into the train station. But 
 even then the AI seemed to know exactly where I was when I could not see them; for the most part 
 it kind of made me feel like I was going through a gauntlet most of time. And as for the way they 
 ended the game, what a bust I mean come on after everything you go through and the whole idea of 
 the story line, I was like WTF? You have got to be kidding me, 3 years down the road and now I 
 understand why they did not continue Chaser It looked they were planning on it but what happened 
 who knows. Basically this game was and is a could have been to wish it was to Oh well! It would 
 have been nice to see them improve on the game and to continue the story as they planed to, well 
 as I said it seemed like it that is. And If I did not see it for my own eyes I never would have 
 thought that 554 people have this game, because I sure don't see people play it on line and only 
 reason It took this long to complete was that I only played a few hours every couple of days, well 
 that is when there was nothing better on TV to watch. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Echsenschnitter
Rating: 7.2
Date: Jun 11, 2006 3:40 am PT
Review:  Chaser is a hardcore old-school first person shooter. It's fun to play if: 
  
  1. You play a lot of FPS and you are very good in what you do.
  
  Because: Chaser is a difficult 
 game. You must have good reflexes, otherwise you're already dead. The AI reacts very fast. You 
 don't have any time to think, no time for tactical stuff, just shoot and kill. In this game it's 
 -more than ever- important to always keep moving.
  
  2. You have a good sense of orientation.
  
  Because: The levels are very big and often confusingly 
 build. You have no map or a compass. Some people really will get lost in those huge areas. You 
 have to go through the maps systematically if you don't want to get lost. For me it was fun, cause 
 it's some nice work for the brain, but it's definitively not always easy.
  
  3. You like a dark and dismal atmosphere.
  
  Because: Chaser has a great dark atmosphere. Almost 
 all areas which you'll visit are very dismal. There are a lot of nice light effects in the game, 
 which really do look good in the dark. 
  
  If you like games such as 'Soldier of Fortune 2', 'Red Faction' or 'Painkiller', there is a good 
 chance that you'll like Chaser to. 
  
  The game offers plenty of weapons. There is a gun for every taste. Pistols, Shotguns, Submachine 
 guns, Sniper Rifles, Grenade Launchers and so on. Some weapons even have a 2nd firing mode. You'll 
 not get bored that fast with this huge arsenal.
  
  Chaser offers 40 levels. It will keep you busy longer than most other first person shooters.
 
  
  Another thing that a liked about Chaser is the soundtrack. The music tracks are very cool and they 
 fit to the levels. The sound overall is not breathtaking but ok. I noticed a few ambient-sound 
 lacks here and there, but nothing that ruins the game.
  
  What i don't liked about Chaser is the following:
  
  The difficulty level is way too high in 
 some parts of the game. If you don't use the Bullet Time Feature frequently (everything runs in 
 slow motion) , you don't stand a chance while some fights. Personally i don't like that so much, 
 because i would like to be able to play the game through without switching into Bullet Time that 
 often. I don't want to feel 'forced' do do so all the time. But it's just my taste.
  
  I got stuck sometimes in 1 or 2 levels, because of objects on the ground. Stuff like bricks or 
 pieces of wood. I mean, i always were able to walk on after less than a second, but if that happens 
 while firefights, it can be very annoying. But fortunately that happened not often.
  
  I also recognized some small graphical abnormalities in a few levels, but that too is nothing serious.
 
  
  Summary:
  
  Chaser is a hard, but very good FPS. If you love first person shooters and don't get frustrated 
 easily, buy the game. It's worth it.
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: MajinBuXL
Rating: 6.7
Date: Jun 6, 2006 12:16 am PT
Review:  ===CAUTION! SOME MINOR SPOILERS!===
  (like you'll play this game for the plot! HA!)
  
  Now what to say about Chaser? The game is quite packed with great weapons, graphics, slow shooting 
 mode, and great action scenes i have to say. But you know what.... its lacking everything else.
 
  The game sets out with a great storyline but develops it in a terrible way leaving you at that 
 final cutscene just on the verge of tears and with that happy "WTF!" expression on your face that 
 makes you want to pound your computer to death after all you've been through in the game. You'll 
 start out, in fact, as someone who lost his memory and just woke up from a coma on a space station 
 orbiting earth while soldiers are blasting their way around. Now that sounds great for a sci-fi 
 shooter right? Indeed it is. But what happens later on in the story turns from cool... to ok.... 
 to bad.... to just plain terrible. I don't want to give away too much about the story but its just 
 a bunch of casual events all chained together around the fact that your trying to to get to Mars 
 because.... well... just because thats one of the few things that you remember.
  So in a way, heres how it works out in the story. 
  Someone wants to help you get to Mars but 
 in the meantime you need to help him out first. And by helping him out you'll get betrayed by him 
 once your done. So if you get betrayed you'll want revenge and try to kill him. So if you want 
 to try to kill him you'll need to find him. But before finding him, you need to get that chip out 
 of your brain because it won't let you get out of the city. To get that chip out of your brain 
 you'll need to find a certain person. And that certain person happens to be a couple dozen levels 
 away.
  ALL that redundant stuff happens ALL the way through the game in a continuous loop that keeps you 
 on the verge of ripping your hair out on every cutscene that doesn't give away any progress.
  Now, lets talk about the levels. ANOTHER big issue here.
  Ok, first off. Who the hell made these? 
 I mean... ok, i have to go in that itty bitty hole hidden behind a truck and climb all the way 
 to the top of the room and jump from board to board without falling down into another itty bitty 
 hole hidden behind a rock. COME ON! I can understand that you make people do that ONCE, but EVERY 
 freaggin room you enter is like playing a mix of Cluedo and Prince of Persia! Search for that little 
 hidden passage and jump without losing your balance! I mean... I played a LOT of FPS and I have 
 never had big problems jumping or finding stuff in games like these... but this.... oh my god. 
 If you don't get used to it and start thinking like the level designers you'll be stuck every 5 
 minutes.... trust me. I seriously reached tears in one level where i had to go underwater. That 
 was the culmination of how bad they made the levels. Don't get me wrong though... the levels were 
 bad simply because you have spend more than 10 minutes in a room trying to figure out where to 
 go, not because they weren't cool.
  And trust me also when I say you'll play HUNDREDS of levels. I'm serious, I thought i played games 
 that were pretty long but this one.... man is it long.
  Though some levels were extremely and boringly large, good scripting scenes were placed here and 
 there to keep that action and exploration thing going.
  Weapons also helped ease that pain caused by the poor level design. I don't think I've seen so 
 many weapons so widely different from one another in this game compared to any other game i played. 
 Even Half-Life 2 or any other top notch FPS doesn't offer as many weapons as this game does in 
 the course of the entire plot. You'll arsenal will range from the simple knife to 3 kinds of pistols 
 to granade launcher to an updated version of the ak47 and to the OICW, the new rifle still under 
 development by the military today.
  The graphics were defenetly a plus too. Though they might be a little dated today i thought they 
 were just fine for a FPS. I hate those games that are all just about the graphics and you need 
 to buy a brand new computer just to be able to play them.
  The voiceovers where another big issue though. Just plain bad. Some were above average but the 
 the thing is... the main character's voiceover was one of the worst. 
  Ok, concluding.... Chaser is one of those games that you really need to set your mind into if you 
 want to get through it. I mean, its fun and greatly action packed but... if you dont have a keen 
 eye and patience... forget about it... dont even try it. You'll just end up wondering why you kept 
 on searching for that entrance or hole or door over and over again in the first place. It gets 
 a 6.7 only because of the graphics and the weapons in the gameplay score.
  Without those I doubt I would of even finished the game.
  Cheers. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Corrosion85
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 19, 2006 7:55 am PT
Review:  Well what can I say? When I bought the game I was immediately impressed by the arsenal it has to 
 offer. Yes there is a weapon for every taste (even if you like a rocket launcher with burst-fire 
 for that extra KABOOM) and you will love the story. Chaser is not one of these average shooter 
 games which you quickly play through in 8-10h and then lay it away.
  The game has actually a nice story: You start off in a Space Station while a raid is going on, 
 bullets raining everywhere, so no time to think but rather defend yourself. You are the worlds 
 famoust merc called Chaser, and you keep having flashbacks. Your goal is planet Mars but untill 
 then you need to play lots of missions, kill hundreds of people trying to stop you and the long 
 story twists a lot of times. 
  
  Eventhough the graphics can't match with Far Cry the gameplay is 10 times as intense. With the 
 huge arsenal it offers you will want to play missions over and over again. Oh and did I mention 
 the bullet time? Well since ennemies have a fast reaction especially on higher diffuclties, it 
 is best to make headshots and to give you more time to aim the bullet time is really a big help 
 in the game ( and an additional fun factor) .
  
  For everyone who loves modern shooters and especially every Max Payne fan shouldn't mss out on 
 this one... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rautakanki
Rating: 6.7
Date: Feb 18, 2006 5:41 am PT
Review:  Good:
  Weapon sounds, Decent graphics, cool weapons (historical, no sci-fi) , sniper-level, lack of bugs
 
  
  Bad:
  A completely idiotic storyline, very bad voice acting, a few frustrating moments
  
  The beginning 
 of Chaser was very promising, but after a few levels it got worse and then it got worse again. 
 Last levels were so bad, that i almost quit - and I'm not a quitter when it comes to FPS, heh. 
 Like in many Hollywood-movies, in the end I didn't care at all what would happen to the main character. 
 I almost hoped he would get killed. 
  
  If you want to kill some time and enemies, this should be fun - at least a few hours. Needless 
 to say, there are MUCH BETTER games if you haven't played them all already.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: woef
Rating: 7
Date: Jan 31, 2006 11:14 am PT
Review:  Chaser is a good game........ why? this is why.......
  
  Graphics:
  Good graphics, looks great, runs smoothly and looks very realistic (even the ingame movies are 
 of good quality.
  
  Sounds:
  Average sounds, the weapons do sound good but not too good, voice acting is average, music is good 
 though, lots of variety in music.
  
  Online:
  Good, but some mayor bugs and very laggy.
  
  Variety:
  Good lots of missions, different environments, 
 lots of weapons, good AI.
  very impressive.
  
  Value:
  This game is of good value, both online and single are great to experience and will keep you playing 
 this game for a few weeks.
  
  Gameplay:
  Best of all, good AI, lots of weapons, good and challenging missions.
  
  Well thats my review 
 
  cya all 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chris3274
Rating: 2.5
Date: Dec 30, 2005 11:01 pm PT
Review:  The game was good in the beginning but turned south later on. It got so bad I just stopped playing 
 it altogether. The story gets lost somewhere in Russia. It started to leave unfinished parts. Once 
 you get to Mars. Forget trying to follow the storyline. It's too confussing. The gameplay is good 
 at times but is a pain in the rear at times. I found myself saving alot when it came time to act 
 like Mario. Jumping onto a tiny ledge just to advance on. Listen, this is a first person shooter 
 game not a Super Mario Bros. game. I wished the developers would realized this when making this 
 game. I liked the slo-mo ability but it's nothing new. Just a rip off from Max Paine and The Matrix. 
 The sounds in the game are good and bad. The good first. Weapon sounds yet not realistic but had 
 a good strong sound. Now the bad. Grenades are very sorry. They sound more like ninja smoke bombs 
 rather then loud bangers. Another thing that was bad about the nades. You can't cook them. The 
 voice acting was terrible and in game voice was bad too. I didn't like too much of it's music score 
 either. This game did have good potential but got real sloppy and lazy. I think the best visual 
 parts of the game were when the pieces from the space station were slamming into MC. Also the opening 
 cutscene was done quite well also. I just wished they would have kept it up throughout the whole 
 game. Now on to Mutiplayer? That's it. You can play this game on the net but you'll only hearing 
 crickets and frogs. That means nobodies on it. So really this game doesn't have Multiplayer. It 
 may have the ability to play online but you can hardly find any one playing online. Maybe they 
 should have allowed Bot support for their Mutiplayer game. Thank God I only spent 4 bucks for it 
 when I got it. The OICW is about the only weapon that you will use that is somewhat dated to the 
 time peroid for which you are in. You would think that weapons would be more advanced in 35 years 
 into the future. I know that the weapons used during the Vietnam War are different than the ones 
 used today. This game has more bad then good. I wouldn't give more than 5 bucks for it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ufopuller
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 26, 2005 9:40 am PT
Review:  Chaser is excitement from the beginning to the end. The game starts on Mars with the main character's 
 (the gamer-Chaser) memory lost. This necessitates a trip to Earth, where one finds the player somehow 
 involved with the mob. Not knowing who are the good guys or the bad guys, the gamer is forced to 
 obliterate most anyone who starts a gun fight. There are enemy at ever turn. This allows for constant 
 action. Weaponry grows drastically during the game. Toward the end of the stay on Earth there are 
 more than 12 weapons to pick from. The author appreciates games with a lot of weapons to carry. 
 Not just a few to carry from a list of many, such as the Delta Force games by Novalogic. Another 
 positive to the game is it can be saved at any point. No more reach a save point or complete a 
 whole mission like with the Alien vs. Predator games.
  
  This is one of the lengthiest games the author has played. It is not extremely difficult. The enemies 
 go down in one blast when shot to the head. There are enemy at every turn. 
  
  The game seems linear at first. No hidden passages, no secret levers with unseen doorways. However, 
 as the game progresses, there are more and more dead-ends. No problem retrace ones steps and look 
 for obvious pathways. The trouble is some are just not that obvious. Search and search until finally, 
 there, under a rock is a small place the gamer can squeeze through to continue the game. Jumping 
 is an art indeed. A number of what would seem to be impassable junctures require the gamer to make 
 a jump either up or down, but one out of twenty jumps were fatal.
  
  The last sequence of events takes place on Mars as the gamer approaches what is the rebel encampment 
 according to the objectives. The game goes on and on through tunnels and excavations with enemy 
 becoming more and more armored. The very ending is not at all what the author expected. Usually 
 there is a bomb to set and a time to escape, or a final BOSS to kill. Not so with Chaser. The author 
 will not wreck the ending for those who need to experience this game. 
  
  So, the author will end with this thought. Chaser can appease the average first person shooter. 
 The author is sure there will be those die-hards that will only settle for Half-Life 2 or Doom 
 3 sophistication. This game will definitely satisfy the novice or occasional FPS gamer.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: tanker
Rating: 6.5
Date: Nov 28, 2003 10:04 pm PT
Review:  Chaser is a pretty good shooter. It comes very close to being very good but falls down in one crucial 
 area. First of all the graphics are excellent. Not Half-Life 2 or Doom 3 but still good. Sound 
 is also pretty good and the music isnt bad either. Level design is not bad. The levels lead you 
 where you need to go without making you feel restricted and no stupid puzzle levels. The story 
 is interesting but a tad confusing at first. There are a lot of cut scenes that are well acted.
 
  
  Where the game falls flat though is that many of the levels are too long and boring. It just seems 
 to be one or two bad guys after another you have to mow down. The AI is not very good and there 
 is almost no co-ordination among bad guys. In some levels you just want to yell Ok I get it. Shoot 
 guy, move on, shoot guy, move on! Its too bad because many of the levels do look good and are 
 nice environments. There just isnt any personality to them. Also, while many of the bad guys look 
 really cool they dont really say anything interesting which adds to the dullness after awhile.
 
  
  This is a great game to get cheap but dont pay full price.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Vinton
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 10, 2003 5:57 pm PT
Review:  For the rabid rpger who needs the quick fix of a solid fps hypodermic needle between fighting 
 dragons and saving damsels in distress, this game fits the bill perfectly. Theres plenty of intelligent 
 action to keep an experienced gamer involved (and sometimes baffled) by the excellent level design 
 and enemy AI.
  
  If there is one word to sum up the game, it is SOLID. The graphics, sound, game play, replay value, 
 tilt, etc., are all solid. The levels were challenging while still remaining fun, a balance difficult 
 to achieve with action games. The sound and voice acting were believable, and, perhaps most importantly, 
 the game just kept drawing me back for more. 
  
  I thoroughly enjoyed the game and will most likely replay it at some point. I took around 50 hours 
 to finish the game, but I tend to explore the environments, looking for hidden areas, etc., so 
 your experience may vary. 
  
  I attempted online play after the single-player campaign, but received a server error and dropped 
 it at that (I dont much care for the inevitable cheating that occurs during online play anyway) . 
 I will most likely play it again at some point.
  
  I tend to keep a handful of games on my shelf, much like trophies, that I have conquered and would 
 like to play again (like Half-life, etc.) , and this game made the cut.
  
  Considering that a meal out with the fam costs more than this game, it was well worth the cost. 
 Kudos to the developers and staff that made this game come to life; it was everything I wanted 
 it to be. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: CheckMate
Rating: 8.6
Date: Sep 23, 2003 5:52 pm PT
Review:  Chaser provides some very large levels, filled with great action that is enjoyable, and fairly 
 intense. There is nothing revolutionary about this game, but this shouldnt deter you into thinking 
 that that is a fault. Chaser is very good at refining existing FPS game play. The incorporation 
 of the Adrenaline mode (puts everything in slo-mo like Max Payne) is nice. It ads some enjoyment 
 to the game, but the game is great even if you dont utilize it.
  
  As mentioned the levels are very large and fortunately, they load quickly. I was amazed at the 
 enormity of some of the outdoor areas. In fact, the level design in this game is some of the best 
 Ive ever experienced in an FPS game. I enjoyed the way the developers allowed for many little 
 offshoots from the linear path that you must take. Also there is tons of stuff (mostly non-interactive 
 filler) in all of the levels that fill things out very nicely.
  
  The ambient and game-play sounds are very good as well. The only faults I found with the sound 
 department is the voice-over for the main character is very weak, and sound zone interlay is abrupt 
 as you traverse from one environment into another. Also the weapon discharge volume should be a 
 tad more pronounced. Other than that, the ambient is excellent and the weapons have a good sound, 
 though slightly muted.
  
  Graphics are very good. Certainly not in the same league as Unreal 2, but they definitely hold 
 their own. Everything is modeled real well. Weather effects are great too. The shattering of windows 
 is very well done. One of the best.
  
  AI is ok. Certainly no Harvard graduates, but they attack well, and take cover occasionally. It 
 would have been nice if the developer made them duck for cover when they reloaded instead of just 
 standing in your line of fire.
  
  Chaser is loads of fun if you like FPS games. The weapons provide a nice selection, they sound 
 good, and are fun to utilize. The AI is about average and fortunately they are well placed so it 
 is definitely enjoyable taking them on [or out :) ] . The fact that the Russians you encounter speak 
 Russian is a very nice touch too. I enjoyed playing it very much and will probably play it again 
 in a few months. Hope this helps.... :)
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: JC Crusader
Rating: 8.1
Date: Sep 12, 2003 11:04 pm PT
Review:  Chaser has all the elements that make a good shooter (lots of guns and enemies.) The graphics and 
 sound are also excellent. Gameplay flows nicely between levels with each level feeding the next. 
 The cinematics are good, but not crucial to gameplay... I found that I could skip the movies and 
 just begin shooting at will with no problem in completing the level. 
  
  AI is good and the accuracy of the enemy is good but within reason. The longer the shot, the less 
 effective the enemy's aim is, likewise the closer they are to you, they become quite deadly. I 
 found the use of the quick save button is vital, in the fact that you can take quite a bit of damage 
 when suprise attacks occur. There are times when the enemy will morph out of no where, especially 
 after you have already cleared the area making for those "sneak up from behind" attacks.
  
  I have played in the multiplayer mode a couple of times and was quite dissapointed. I'm a big fan 
 of MOHAA: Spearhead multiplayer and Chaser is definitely not it's equal in the multiplayer arena. 
 There doesn't seem to be a way to easily distinguish opponents from team mates and I had one team 
 mate spend half of the game trying to kill me!
  
  All in all, I really like the single player game, and will probably quit playing after the single 
 player campaign is concluded. With a $39.99 price tag, I highly recommend this game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jpaisley24
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 2, 2003 10:21 am PT
Review:  This, in short, is a very good game that will pass the time until Half Life 2 and Doom 3 come out. 
 The Gamespot review was right-on I thought. This is not a revolutionary game in any aspect, but 
 it is just a lot of fun to play.
  
  There are some really really neat levels, and then there are a couple of really boring and frustrating 
 and pointless levels. But all in all, I think the good far outweighs the bad with single player.
 
  
  The multiplayer is ok right now, and could be a lot better if the developers were to implement 
 map rotation, and issue more maps. Plus, there's just not enough US players out there on the servers 
 right now. If you happen to decide to play during peak European playing hours, you'll find people, 
 but unfortunately, that's when a lot of us are working over here!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spacefan
Rating: 5
Date: Sep 2, 2003 8:29 am PT
Review:  The opening scenes of this game were pretty graphically stunning and the action sequences were 
 excellent -- kind of reminded me of System Shock 2. After that, it got bogged down in some hokey 
 storyline that made no sense to me at all. This game really didn't achieve any momentum until the 
 middle of the game. Up until the middle it was kind of clunky and clumsy, though the action sequences 
 were pretty over the top. The game also borrowed some "visuals" from scifi movies, particularly 
 Aliens (remember the troop carriers?) . Overall, I liked the game and the ending sequence setup 
 a sequel pretty nicely. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Signal_Jam
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 1, 2003 9:19 pm PT
Review:  Chaser is a wonderful game, one of the best pure shooters to come out in a long time. Aside from 
 the insanity that is the enemy, (they see you from miles away, when you have made little or no 
 noise much of the time) and the helpful but gimmicky bullet time, this game is well, greeeat. The 
 levels are gigantic, the game is very long, the story is the equivalent of a really good early 
 90's action flick. My biggest gripe is that sometimes finding the way to go is maybe a little overly 
 confuseing. However, without the expansive levels this game might not be as good, the largeness 
 of it gives you plenty of ways to take a level down, and plenty of extra people to kill. Buy this 
 game over every other action game released THIS YEAR. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: joe hite
Rating: 6.7
Date: Aug 30, 2003 2:36 pm PT
Review:  Not what I thought it would be. Then again I'm a die hard vietcong fan, so I've been spoild with 
 a sweet game. I just think I'm over random run & gun games. I need to be able to bring up the rifle 
 and aim, have loud gun noises and soldier of fortune 2 blood & guts. This game has none of that, 
 shure there is some blood but not what I was hoping for. You can hear the bad guys yelling at you 
 more than the gun fire. If you have a dated computer it's right up your alley. It will play fast 
 and give you a new game, but for the overclockers looking for some new sweet stuff.... keep looking. I 
 don't think this game sucks but if your debating spending 40 bucks on it, go buy vietcong or unreal 
 2003 those are great games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: debrislide
Rating: 8.4
Date: Aug 29, 2003 9:51 pm PT
Review:  I've been patiently waiting for this one from the moment i played the SP demo. When the MP demo 
 came out shortly after, that cemented it for me. Now that i have it in my hot little hand i'm definitely 
 glad i bought it. It's pretty standard fps fair with moments of brilliance. Which leads me to beleive 
 that these guys either ran out of time or braincells. The story line is pretty weak but good enough. 
 Total recall comes to mind. but it also borrows lightly from a dozen other films and games in the 
 genre. The graphics are pretty tight. Some nice details. Like how glass in the game reacts when 
 shot or exploded. Blood drips down walls which is pretty cool. level design is pretty boring in 
 places but every once in awhile something stands out. It's actually a pretty challenging game as 
 well. maybe a little too difficult at points but health packs and armor are a plenty. There is 
 also something called adrenaline mode, sort of like focus mode in max payne. you can't do any jump 
 and dive moves but it will help you get out of sticky situations. feels like an after thought really. 
 I'm rambling so i'll wrap it up. If you're itchin for a shooter pick this up. Keep your expectations 
 low and you'll be pleasantly suprised. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BrGabriel
Rating: 4
Date: Aug 28, 2003 2:47 pm PT
Review:  For those of us in Europe who have had the opportunity to buy this game for a while, its a bit 
 irritating that there han't been a review of it until it came out in the US... not least because 
 we could have done with some warning of some of its less attractive features.... however the Gamespot 
 review doesn't really highlight any of these so I guess no loss on this occasion. Oh well, assume 
 games reviewing is bit like US foreign policy.... stops at the shores of the US and is completly 
 ignorant of what's going on in the rest of the world.
  
  The game is a combination of average shooter and simply abominable quality control. For starters, 
 in the UK version you need to download a patch just to get the game to install (I'm not kidding) 
 and then another once it had installed to get it to run. This is probably in contravention of the 
 Sale of Goods Act in the UK and therefore may leave the publishers oipen to prosecution for selling 
 a product that isn't fit for the purpose for which it was sold. Don't know whether this is relevant 
 to the US edition. Within the game there are frequent occasions when one becomes stuck on random 
 bits of scenary, oppponents clip through doors and walls (you can even shoot 'em under these circumstances 
 despite the fact that their on the other side) and the ladder climbing and jump function work poorly 
 and in the latter case is sometimes so bugged that one has to use the timescale cheat to actually 
 get over a wall or into a ventilation duct. Its also depressingly linear, with little if any option 
 for creative solution of levels. Some levesl are sreamingly tedious, such as the underwater path 
 one and it really does seem like the developers had a few favourite effects which they just had 
 to ram down the players throat. For hours. Over level after level. Further the cut scenes and plot 
 seem to make leaps of "logic" that are are almost uninteliigble... luckily the plot is so unchallenging 
 that a five year old could follow it. And the ending (just like the rest of the game) makes no 
 allowance for player decision and is almost entirely composed of animated cutscenes.
  
  Overall - not a good game. Would be average but for the terrible quality control - did someone 
 actually beta this?
  
  Ther are much bettert games on the market - buy one of the minstaed or save up for Doom 3 or Dues 
 X 2 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wyre888
Rating: 9.2
Date: Aug 27, 2003 3:25 pm PT
Review:  Over the past few years its been really hard to find a first person shooter that isnt trying to 
 be too realistic or just trying to do a little too much for its own good. Games like HALO and Medal 
 of Honor have been some of the few exceptions and really added some new demetions to the FPS genre. 
 Well, though chaser is niether a ground breaker or a game that tries to do tons of new things... it 
 seems to do all the good stuff right. I can't even recall the last time I've had so much fun playing 
 thru a game. From the excelently directed cut scenes to the balls to the wall action.... this game 
 owns. The graphics are on par with pretty much every other game out there with a few exceptions. 
 This game has the best breakable glass my eyes have ever seen. I've spent about 2 hours just breaking 
 stuff. Anyways, I could go on and on about all the things I like about this game but just let me 
 jsut conclude with this. If you like action, a good story line, and good graphics... this is the 
 game 4 u.
  
  IF YOU ARE LOOKING FOR A HELLA FUN SHOOTER WITH THE GRAPHICS TO MATCH IT.... GET THIS GAME... ITS 
 PROBABLY THE BEST SMALL DEVELOPER GAME EVER MADE. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
