-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Chessmaster 10th Edition
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/puzzle/chessmaster10thedition/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Sep  7, 2004
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7.8
Critic Score: 8.4, 10 Review (s)
User Score: 8.6, 356 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Ubisoft
Genre: Board
Date:     Aug 12, 2004
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
If you're looking for a good chess program that's packed with a plethora of features and all the 
 bells and whistles, you'll be very happy with Chessmaster 10th Edition. 

  All of the chess engines from the last few years can whip the pants off of any human ranked less 
 than grand master, so how do you entice anyone to buy a new chess program? Chessmaster 10th Edition's 
 approach is to pack the program with a huge bundle of features aimed at everyone from the neophyte 
 who's looking to learn the basics to the advanced wood pusher who may need practice for tournament 
 play. The result is a very good package that will satisfy most any chess enthusiast.  

          Every AI opponent has a rating, a biography, and a style.     

  Chess fans look for 
 three key feature areas in their chess programs: graphics, learning and tutorial capabilities, 
 and modes of play. The Chessmaster series has always excelled visually, and the 10th Edition follows 
 this tradition -- but not without some caveats. The 3D pieces and boards look great, and you have 
 the ability to adjust the board size and viewing angle to whatever position you prefer. You also 
 get to choose from a selection of animated 3D sets. But while the game boasts 25 3D chess sets, 
 a number of them must be unlocked before being used -- a contrivance that may be acceptable in driving 
 games or other genres, but seems somewhat out of place here. Unlocking a set requires winning a 
 certain number of ranked games (games in which you play a ranked player where the results affect 
 your ranking) , and several require a substantial number of wins -- we're talking dozens. Some may 
 welcome the incentive to play and win, but many players will be frustrated by the inability to 
 use all of the advertised boards and pieces before winning scores of games.  

  There's also an "enhanced 3D" feature that involves using old-fashioned, red-and-blue-lens paper 
 glasses, which come enclosed. The effect is fun to look at for a short time, but it's more of a 
 gimmick than a long-term, useful feature. For computer chess purists, a few 2D sets are offered. 
 They're OK, but those serious players most likely to use the top-down 2D sets may be disappointed 
 in that none of them are really top-notch. Also, if you have Microsoft ClearType enabled on your 
 computer, the menu bar text will be a blurry purple font. These criticisms should not be taken 
 as a condemnation of the overall graphical presentation, because most players will likely pick 
 a good 3D set or two and will stick with them for most of their playing time (many of the fancy 
 3D sets are more for show than for play against a foe) , and the lighting, reflections, and overall 
 graphic depiction of the chess sets are very good. In addition, free, downloadable chess sets are 
 already available from the makers of the game.  

  Once you get into the learning and gameplay modes, the dual nature of Chessmaster 10th Edition 
 becomes apparent. There's an entire segment of the program that is directly targeted at kids. Click 
 on the "fun" icon and you're presented with several options: play, puzzles, and learn basics. The 
 puzzles and learn basics features are just what they sound like: puzzles and lessons targeted at 
 kids, with simple interfaces, emphases on fun, and rewards (such as printable chess certificates) . 
 The play option in the "fun" section of Chessmaster 10th Edition provides games against lower-level 
 players that use a whimsical, animated chess set. This aspect of the game is very well done, and 
 it may serve as an excellent means to draw young, new players into the world of chess.  

  The learning tools in the more "adult" section of Chessmaster 10th Edition include a great deal 
 of information targeted at beginning players. The highlights of the "academy" are the sections 
 taught by Josh Waitzkin (the subject of the movie  Searching for Bobby Fischer ) and grand master 
 Larry Christiansen. Both feature spoken commentary that accompanies the principles explained on 
 the board. While much of Waitzkin's tutorial will be of little interest to intermediate and advanced 
 players, his annotated games, which illustrate the psychology of chess, are intriguing for all 
 levels of players. Christiansen's "attacking chess" is more interesting for experienced players, 
 but it's too short, because only six (though a very interesting six) games are analyzed. Christiansen 
 also presents a fascinating analysis of a four-game match in which he played against Chessmaster 
 9 at its highest difficulty setting.  

  The rest of the academy includes a variety of drills and puzzles, which are, again, mostly directed 
 at lower-level players. Other learning materials in Chessmaster 10th Edition include a large database 
 of famous games (that feature mostly sparse annotation) and a section on openings. In spite of 
 the plethora of material, there is actually room for improvement in some sections. For example, 
 in the openings section, there is a practice drill on the difficult king-knight-bishop mate, but 
 there's no explanation on how to accomplish it. As a result, lower-level players will simply become 
 frustrated attempting it. And many of the openings described in the "practice openings" section 
 go no deeper than four moves. Many, in fact, consist of just one move.  

  After all the drills and tutorials, and after deciding whether to go with a standard Staunton 3D 
 chess set or something a bit more off-the-wall (such as a set composed of nuts and bolts) , it's 
 time to actually play chess. Chessmaster 10th Edition shines in gameplay modes. You can challenge 
 a wide range of "personalities" with varying strengths (from pure beginner to grand master level) 
 and styles. For instance, one artificially intelligent player may favor bishops inordinately over 
 knights, while another may be much better in speed chess games rather than standard time settings. 
 Each of the AI players has a biography and a photo attached, but, alas, once you're into a match, 
 there are no added personality touches (such as comments on your moves, for instance) . You can 
 play ranked games in which you select an AI opponent and in which the results of the game impact 
 your rating; for example, beating a much higher-ranked player will result in a considerable boost 
 in your rankings, while losing to a lower-ranked foe will drop your level significantly. You can 
 also select to play in a wide variety of prearranged tournaments that are set up according to skill 
 levels and playing styles. The only major flaw in Chessmaster 10th Edition's chess-playing modes 
 is that your AI opponent will never resign. Other top chess programs offer this feature, and it 
 should be available as a toggle in Chessmaster.  

          Want to use this chess set? First you'll have to win 60 games in ranked play.     

 
  Online play has some connectivity bugs that have plagued a large number of players -- judging from 
 the game's official message boards -- though the developers claim that these issues will be addressed. 
 If you're able to avoid connection problems, online play is straightforward and is well-laid-out, 
 offering everything from quick games to tournaments.  

  The latest Chessmaster isn't the perfect program for hardcore chess aficionados. However, if you're 
 looking for a good chess program that's packed with a plethora of features and all the bells and 
 whistles, you'll be very happy with Chessmaster 10th Edition.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (16 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: vTank
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 30, 2008 12:02 am PT
Review:  Chessmaster 10th Edition is a solid game that I am glad I got. 
  
  There are 3 Modes:
  Play
  -LAN: Self explanatory.
  -Online: I don't know if it's my fault but I can't find very 
 many players online and I can't find very many games with the kinds of time limits I like (STANDARD 
 PLEASE) . Online is online though, and maybe I'm missing something major but I take off 0.35 points 
 here.
  -Tournaments: You can play tournaments that have already been created and create your own tournaments. 
 The amount of customization is limitless. When there is a game of AI vs AI you can skip watching 
 the match or watch the match which is very helpful.
  -Set Up Position: Here you can set up the board position and assign whatever players you want to 
 each side. I find this very helpful when I'm analyzing a game I played to see what I could have 
 done better and why. You can also access this from the Training Mode section.
  -Ranked Play: Face off against opponent AI to up your rating. Your first 20 games are provisional 
 where you can't play opponents that are more than 400 points above you and your rating goes up 
 faster. After that your rating goes up slower and you can face off against anyone. This is probably 
 the part of the game that gives you the satisfaction of winning when you play it.
  -Training Mode: Free for all. You can interrupt games, switch players, ask for advice, and do just 
 about anything here. 
  
  Learn
  -Academy: You can have lessons with commentary from Josh Waitzkin and Larry Christiansen, both 
 famous grandmasters. The material on Josh Waitzkin's side of the board is quite astounding. I haven't 
 counted how long it goes on but it's at least hours and hours and very helpful, new comers will 
 find the tactics section especially enlightening. There are also puzzles and the such in this section.
 
  -Famous Games: A database of 500 famous games with text commentary sprinkled throughout. 
  -Database: I don't even know how many game are in the database. Five thousand? Ten thousand? It's 
 more than you'll ever get through most likely. 
  -Openings: A lot of opening lines and also commentaries on them.
  
  Fun
  -Play: Play games.
 
  -Puzzles: Do simple puzzles. They seem to be randomly generated but I'm not sure.
  -Learn Basics: For people that don't know how to play chess or need a refresher.
  
  I'm quite 
 satisfied with this game. I think it's worth the money to any chess fan.
  
  9.65 
::::::

::::::
UserName: svaubel
Rating: 9.4
Date: Apr 21, 2007 10:27 pm PT
Review:  Chess is one of the greatest board games in the world, and is also one of the oldest. For centuries 
 it has remained the same, until now that we have computers to show us how to play, and show us 
 how to lose. Chessmaster is one of the most respected and widely used chess programs, and in the 
 10th Edition, it combines all the best features of the previous versions. Whether you are new to 
 the game and wanting to learn how to play, or you are a grandmaster seeking the ultimate opponent, 
 there is something here for everyone in Chessmaster.
  
  Gameplay 10- It's chess, enough said.
  Graphics 9- Being able to choose between 2D and 3D boards 
 is real nice. the user interface is also very user-friendly.
  Sound 8- I miss being able to listen to the classical soundtracks that were in Chessmaster 6000, 
 but thats what mp3 programs are for.
  Value 10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MelJ111
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jan 29, 2007 7:13 pm PT
Review:  If you want to have some good games of chess, I would instantly say get Chessmaster. If you are 
 feeling shy about getting this game, don't be. You won't regret your choice, especially if you 
 love chess like I do. Now, to the game. Chessmaster has some lovable features, including changing 
 your chess pieces style, to playing realistic computer characters. The Chessmaster gives you advice 
 on how to improve your game after each round. I spent hours just playing away at this wonderful 
 game. It was fun, and you have an actual chess rating! Pretty cool eh? Yes I am Canadian.
  
  If you want that extra twist in your game, the program features tutorials, an analyze of your 
 game, and many more interesting ways to improve your game, or style of chess.
  
  If you get this game, you would be doing yourself a favor. Chess is for cool people!!!!! ;)
  
 
  By M &amp; S 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nicktchernikov
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 1, 2007 1:02 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay: Although the gameplay in Chessmaster 10th Edition is quite bland, you have to give the 
 developers some slack. After all, this is a chess game, not Half-Life 2. That being said, the 3D 
 gameplay is quite smooth (it does lag sometimes on my computer) and the 3D glasses were a nice 
 attempt. The only bad thing about the gameplay, perhaps, was the menubar at the top. It kept turning 
 an unatural pink and it just took away from the metallic feel of the whole thing. I'm not sure 
 whether this was done on purpose, or if it was a glitch, but it sure took away from the game. Graphics: 
 Graphics in a chess game are probably the least important thing. However, this is where Chessmaster 
 had their chance to take this game to the next level. The 3D pieces were sometimes jagged and weren't 
 realistic enough in my taste, especially the little Faerie characters and Elves and such. In my 
 mind, although they added a certain fun factor, the animations of the magical-creature themes took 
 away from the game. And the 3D perespective doesn't work as well on a computer as it doesn in real 
 life. To be blunt, I found myself using the 2D black and white pieces for 98% of the time. Sound: 
 The regular click sounds for the pieces moving were there, and that was good. The thing I liked 
 was how the magical-creature themes contained many different sounds along with the animations. 
 The pawns would say something when you moved them, and the queen would, too. It was a nice touch, 
 but once again, I never used the magical-creature themes, and I'm not sure who really would (5 
 year olds?) .
  
  Value: For the money I spent for Chessmaster 10th Edition, I think I got good value for it. Although 
 I was already an a casual chess player with some skills, this game improved my chess. There were 
 databases of over a thousand games that I had the chance to analyse (never did) and tutorials by 
 the American chess player Josh Waitzkin (starred in the movie Finding Bobby Fisher ) . After each 
 game, the Chessmaster would analyze your game and tell you would you should have done, or did right. 
 There is even a Kids Mode for kids, as if they play chess these days. The multiplayer mode was 
 also a good attempt, but it was not executed properly and there were some glitches. Overall, anything 
 you wanted to do with chess was there, and I think that counts as good value. Tilt: Chessmaster 
 has made some great chess games in the past, and this is no exception. I'm willing to say that 
 Chessmaster 10th Edition is, so far, the best Chessmaster in the series. Bottom line: Overall, 
 a score of 8.0 - great. This game is great for anybody intersted in chess, and it is the best Chessmaster 
 in the series. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Doug_Rock
Rating: 9.1
Date: Nov 20, 2006 12:51 pm PT
Review:  If you like chess, this game is perfect for you.
  I was a really bad player with the age of 11 years and i had many stalemates with the worst opponent.
 
  Now, I'm 15 years old and I am ranked 1600 by the chessmaster.
  This is due to the fact that the tutorials of chessmaster are amazingly complete. They talk about 
 each aspect of this so discriminated game, but yet, so perfect and intelligent.
  
  The gameplay is increadible!!! You have lots of opponents to practice and each of them have their 
 own style of playin'.
  
  The tutorials are the reason why i say that this game is immersive. When you hear the voices of 
 Josh Waitzkin and Larry Christiansen, you imagine yourself in their place and you get really passioned 
 by the game.
  
  I hope you buy this game, even you that hate chess.... maybe is the path to admirate this historical 
 board game. Don't say no to somethin that is worth its price.
  
  Cheers 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tool_lateralus
Rating: 1
Date: Oct 4, 2006 4:44 pm PT
Review:  This is such an awful game. Go on the internet and play vs a regular AI it will be better than 
 chessmaster. The AI is sooooooo terrible..... the midrange players will consistantly make mistakes 
 beginners would not even make yet they can mate like a pro. Its funny how much work was put into 
 this game, the java games you find on the internet have a better thinking system. Only upside to 
 this game is the lessons which are good... but not nearly as good as the results from a search of 
 chess strategys. Sure its a cheap game but I would take my $10 back in a second. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ben D
Rating: 8.8
Date: Aug 11, 2006 12:33 am PT
Review:  I'm not the best chess player, but I have been playing for years and say if you love chess this 
 is a must have. This is the second copy I have bought after misplacing the first one, which says 
 something about it.
  
  At first, I just played the game straight up but now Im actually playing through the tutorials 
 and I have learned a lot about a game I thought knew better than I actually do. There are three 
 different tutorial sections each put together very nicely with different topics. There also is 
 a area where you can watch games played and here a chess master talk about the moves as it progresses, 
 great stuff.. Graphics are pretty decent too. Great buy though for 19.00 bucks at the stores now. 
 
  Cheers
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: c_altamirano
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jul 25, 2006 2:34 pm PT
Review:  Chessmaster 10th Edition contains everything a chess player might need including:
  
  -Ranked Play
  -Online Play
  -Practice
  -Tournament Mode
  -Openings
  -Practice Problems
 
  -Chess Tutorials ranging from Beginner to Advanced
  
  I am a frequent chess player and we I started playing this game I improved immediately. Although 
 I didn't really play against the computer all that much only in tournament mode, I did take the 
 Chess Tutorials and looked at Openings. There was no too many people online at first but as I kept 
 going I found more players. There are three different available types of Tutorials available: Chessmaster, 
 Larry Christiansen and Josh Waitzkin. I found them useful as a tournament player. The effects were 
 almost immediate (About 3 weeks) , I got better and started winning more games. The gameplay is 
 good as are the graphics. In Ranked Play you can play a large amount of players which have different 
 strengths and strategies. In the tutorials the lesson are narrated by Waitzkin, Christiansen and 
 some other person who narrates in the Chessmaster series after a while I found his voice irritating 
 and jokes not very funny especially the cookie one. These are the only points I deduct from the 
 game. Other than that I loved this game and I still use it today but not as frequently. I recommend 
 this game to anyone who plays chess and wants to improve or anyone who loves chess and wants to 
 improve. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: LoJo10
Rating: 6.3
Date: Jul 7, 2006 6:45 pm PT
Review:  It's chess. So if you like chess, you'll probably like it. There are a bunch of computer "players," 
 that you can play against. But eventually it gets boring, playing chess against a computer. So 
 if you want online action, get a copy of Fritz 8. The online chess there is awesome. However, you 
 will get crushed. Again and again and again. Fritz 8 is for multiplayer, Chessmaster 10th edition 
 is for players new to the game who want to learn the fundamentals. And there is a very good tutorial 
 that explains how the game is played. Probably the best that's out there. Josh Waitzkin is good 
 at explaining chess concepts in a manner that anyone can understand. So if you're a chess newbie, 
 pick up a copy of this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LINKTHECHAMPION
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jun 6, 2006 9:43 am PT
Review:  If you want to play chess against a computer and improve your skill, buy this. It has a learning 
 mode, a mode where you get ranked on how good you are, and a mode just for fun. What makes this 
 game even better is that there are about a hundred different people to play against, all of which 
 have unique styles. It has 2 or 3 Dimensional pieces for you to play with. I think this is a lot 
 better than playing on a board. The game cheats sometimes ( A pawn moved forward and took a Bishop 
 that was diagonal to it before it moved in one turn) but you can adjourn games and your rank won't 
 go down. The game also includes a tournament mode in which you can play against people over the 
 internet or agaist the people the game has. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: maverick_76
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 4, 2006 4:22 am PT
Review:  Any fan of the game of chess would enjoy having a copy of this game in their library. And it caters 
 to all skill levels, incorporating a real world chess ranking system so you can recieve an all 
 but official ranking in your checkmating ability. The game engine runs pretty smoothly, emulating 
 that of real world masters such as fisher and spassky, plus throwing some make-believe personalities 
 that make mistakes just as thier rating would suggest. One of the biggest attributes to the game 
 is the tutorial system which can help improve your skill as a chess player, not overnight, but 
 over time, gradually with lots of practice. Throw in some fun mini games, a famous games database, 
 and online play, this is a well rounded game with only minor flaws in the gameplay, which really 
 don't detract at all from enjoying it to the fullest. 
  
  The graphics of the game are what you would expect with a chess simulator, good enough so you can 
 tell which piece you are moving, with a few neat animated sets for small children or adults that 
 are just wanting to have some fun. the board and pieces are represented well, with many choices 
 to choose from, some of which you must unlock from beating opponents in ranked play. (some of the 
 sets require many wins, which can become frustrating to try and accomplish, especially if you are 
 only a casual player) The sound in the game, well other than the opening music, some chimes and 
 the dull sliding of pieces on the board, is just ok at best, with some strange commentary from 
 josh waitzkin and others in the tutorial mode, making the game feel like the developers just slapped 
 the sound together and tried to get it over with as soon as possible. (but hey this is a chess 
 game, not half life 2 or doom 3 for crying out loud!) All that said, this game really has unlimited 
 value because of its infinite replayability, of course this being from it is a board game simulator.
 
  
  Other than that, the little things such as a large number of boards to choose from, and the number 
 of opponents, plus the unique tutorial mode give it some bonus points in my review, this is a great 
 chess simulation, probably one of the best, if not the best , out there. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: csaba69
Rating: 8.9
Date: Feb 19, 2006 7:41 am PT
Review:  Chessmaster 10 is a full chess system. It includes:
  
  - chess game (of course) in training and tournament mode to establish your ELO rating and play 
 against most challenging opponent (list of over 100 opponents, including historic grandmasters)
 
  - tutor and lessons allow you to have 20 hours of chess tutorial taking you from the basics to 
 tournament management with tests and hands-on advise
  - internet play allows to challenge other human players online
  
  In addtion there are:
  
 - 100+ chessboards to choose from
  - historic games and background info on main grandmasters 
  - internet-based chess tournaments
 
  - upgrades (boards, skins, ...) 
  
  Overall the game is very accessible to beginners and experts alike and for most people with some 
 experience with chess it will meet all expectations. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PET_
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 10, 2006 6:17 pm PT
Review:  This game is nice. Very very good for beginners ho want to learn how to play. I can say this is 
 the perfect game. Why ? Well, maybe the "chessmaster" engine is not the best around (I heard Fritz 
 is better) , but the quality of the software is perfect. Of course there are manny things you don't 
 need, like manny "sets" of tables (I usually play with a 2D table) , but the tutorials and how the 
 program is made, makes the game perfect.
  
  P. S. Good chess players don't usualy challenge "the computer", they play in tournaments or with 
 other people on the internet, so don't complain about the... game engine. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: farrooj
Rating: 8.4
Date: Oct 19, 2005 10:46 am PT
Review:  This Is a very good learning program.
  It's a chess tutor that guides you from the earliest stages of your chess learning to an intermediate/ 
 advanced level.
  
  First of all Chessmaster is divided into three sections :
  
  Play, Fun and Learn
  
  The play section is, as the name implies, a place where you can play 
 (against humans, in online play, or mostly against the computer) . The Ai is really good, the playing 
 strenghts and styles are diversed, so that the chess student can train against a repertoire of 
 various opponents.
  
  The fun section is divided into the play area, a place where you can learn the basics, and chess 
 puzzles all wrapped up into a cartoony style for kids.
  
  The learn section is the most important. Here, a chess player can study chess from the basics to 
 the most advanced topics. It includes a database of the most famous games in chess history, a database 
 of tournament games and a database of opening (yeah, lot's of data) and of course the Academy (where 
 you will learn everything)
  
  Basically, this software is great for what it teaches you, the audio tutoring from two amazing 
 chess players Larry Christiansen And Josh Waitzkin also helps.
  For beginners, it's the perfect learning tool, for advanced players, it will teach you stuff you 
 probably won't know (e. g. The psychology of competition, how to hone your chess psychology)
  And of course, it's all wrapped up in great graphics. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Random1992
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 2, 2005 1:27 am PT
Review:  You have to like chess to enjoy the game. It was good and it teaches you A LOT when it comes to 
 playing. If you're already good, this makes you better. If you suck this makes you great. I'm telling 
 you I got so much better in chess with this pragram and you should too. I swear if you would buy 
 any chess game this would be it, what a game. But on the downside it's just chess and no good graphics 
 or sound, but that doesn't take away from the game itself. I thought it was good but the graphics 
 rating brought it down.
  
  But actually this game has very good graphics for just plain chess. And during tutorials the guy 
 speaks clear enough so you can understand everything that's going on. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gavhad
Rating: 7.9
Date: Sep 8, 2004 2:54 am PT
Review:  i guess most people do not play chess today on the computer to hone their skills like i do for 
 the chess tournaments that loom endlessly on the internet. i think that if you play chess recreationally 
 or professionally, chessmaster 10th edition is a worthy collection to your gaming software library. 
 
  
  the graphics of the game seem to be better, a smoother feel and sharper overall. the 3-d chess 
 sets look better than in previous versions. the engine has been improved and slightly updated. 
 the tutorials are extremely concise. the attacking chess lessons are invaluable. waitzkin is an 
 awesome tutor, great for even the more advanced players. GM Larry Christiansen has some terrific 
 games, but I found his real time analysis a little too deep. If you have chessmaster 9000, a lot 
 of these tutorials are similar if not exact copies. however, if this will be your first purchase 
 into the chessmaster series, the lectures alone stand out for buying this game, even if there were 
 no other features.
  
  the game still continues to have flaws in duplicating what a human would do, even though there 
 are about 200 different players to compete against. for instance, some mid-ranged ranked computer 
 opponents decide to put valuable pieces right in front of pawns with no benefit to them. you will 
 occasionally see awesome moves that seem like you are about to be crushed, only to resort back 
 to putting pieces in front of pawns.
  
  the menu interface is still bulky. too many options can easily confuse movement from the gaming 
 types and the teaching functionality. there is no keyboard remapping. game playback using control 
 keys is tedious and can become annoying quickly. analysis during replay is the same as it has been 
 in previous versions. to top it all off, there is still no online play. and what the heck is with 
 the 3d glasses? fun at first, but not quite what you would expect from a chess game.
  
  no competition in the chess gaming genre makes this title an easy buy if you have not bought a 
 previous version in the series, or if you just like sound of something new. the tools you have 
 at your disposal for learning the game are extensive and well thought out to emphasize everything 
 that is important about playing chess. the half a million plus catalog of recorded games in and 
 of itself is a good enough reason to buy this game, but if you already have chessmaster 9000, wait 
 until the version 11 hits the stores. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
