-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Chris Sawyer's Locomotion
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/strategy/cslocomotion/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Sep 27, 2004
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 6.8
Critic Score: 5.8, 18 Review (s)
User Score: 7.5, 483 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Atari
Developer: Chris Sawyer
Genre: Business Strategy
Date:     Sep 9, 2004 &raquo;  
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Locomotion is a flawed but engaging strategy game that's nearly identical to its classic 10-year-old 
 predecessor, Transport Tycoon. 

  Chris Sawyer's Locomotion poses something of a dilemma. On one hand, the latest game from the creator 
 and designer of RollerCoaster Tycoon is a fun and compelling economic strategy game about building 
 a vast and intricate transportation network. On the other hand, we've played this game before, 
 back in 1994, when it was called Transport Tycoon. Indeed, Locomotion is billed as the spiritual 
 successor to Transport Tycoon, and that it is, almost down to the bells and whistles. Yes, the 
 graphics are a little snazzier, but this is almost a dead ringer for Transport Tycoon. And while 
 Locomotion doesn't vary much from Transport Tycoon -- which itself is a classic game -- you can't help 
 but feel that this remake doesn't really feature any of the improvements and enhancements that 
 you'd expect after 10 years.  

          If you build it, they will come. At least, that's the idea in Locomotion, where you must 
 build an epic transportation empire.     

  The basic idea behind the gameplay in Locomotion is that you have to connect things. You start 
 a scenario with a huge map dotted with villages, towns, cities, and industries, all isolated from 
 each other. That means you must build roads, rail lines, ports, and airports to link population 
 centers and industries together. After you create the infrastructure, you then create a fleet of 
 vehicles consisting of buses, trains, ships, trucks, and airplanes to move people and goods. Building 
 a vast and varied transportation empire can be a very enjoyable experience, and you'll see the 
 fruits of your labor as cities grow in size. For example, if you create rail lines that supply 
 coal and iron to a steel factory, and then ship the factory's output to a city, the steel is used 
 to fuel the growth of the city. As a city grows, it supplies more passengers for your transportation 
 system, and demands greater amounts of food and goods, which you can also ship to the city.  

 
  You'll recognize the Chris Sawyer touch in Locomotion right away, from the opening montage to 
 the signature 2D tile-based graphics engine that powered Transport Tycoon and RollerCoaster Tycoon 
 and the user interface that's straight out of the latter. Unfortunately, Locomotion also shares 
 some of the interface issues found in RollerCoaster Tycoon -- trying to build a road or a railroad 
 can be a frustrating experience that will usually necessitate frequent reloads. That's mainly due 
 to the fact that you can't completely undo the mistakes you'll often make when trying to figure 
 out the best way to bridge a river or build an elevated railway over a town. If you spend tens 
 of thousands of dollars to build a bridge and then realize it's in the wrong place, you can recoup 
 only a fraction of your costs when you demolish it. You'll go though a lot of this kind of trial 
 and error in an effort to build the least expensive project possible, because trying to minimize 
 costs is an important goal in the game. This makes it even more galling to see your computer opponents 
 seemingly unaffected by costs, as they build audacious pieces of engineering around you that would 
 easily put you millions of dollars in debt.  

  Another issue with the game is the reliability of your equipment. As in Transport Tycoon, each 
 of the vehicles that you purchase has a reliability statistic. Basically, reliability indicates 
 the wear and tear on a vehicle. New vehicles tend to have a high level of reliability, while older 
 ones tend to have a low one, and therefore break down a lot more. Obviously, you must replace a 
 vehicle as it reaches the end of its service life. This means having to purchase a new vehicle, 
 transfer the route of the old vehicle to the new one, and then sell the old vehicle. It's a cumbersome 
 process that gets worse when you realize that you'll likely be replacing vehicles almost constantly 
 as your transportation network grows. There's no way to maintain a vehicle to prolong its service 
 life, and you'll find yourself replacing whole fleets of vehicles after only a handful of game 
 years.  

  Locomotion also has some of the same pathfinding issues that plagued Transportation Tycoon -- it's 
 possible to watch a vehicle go in circles because it can't find a path to its destination or there's 
 a slight break in the roadway that you didn't notice. It also shares one of the annoying aspects 
 of Transport Tycoon in that your trains and airplanes can use only your own facilities. So instead 
 of municipalities building airports that all competitors can use or numerous companies using the 
 same rail lines, each company has to build its own, exclusive airports and rail lines. Since real 
 estate is at a premium in the game, it's almost silly to see the transportation infrastructure 
 overshadow the actual cities at times.  

          Locomotion uses the same graphics engine as Transport Tycoon, but it's a little more colorful 
 10 years later.     

  As noted earlier, Locomotion uses an enhanced version of the graphics engine that was used in Transport 
 Tycoon a decade earlier. It's a bit more colorful, and there are a few more building styles, but 
 you have to look hard at times to tell the difference between the two. Admittedly, the focus in 
 Chris Sawyer games is less on graphical style and more on gameplay, but Locomotion feels very much 
 like an anachronism. The only good news is that the game is playable on a very wide range of systems, 
 and even older systems shouldn't have much trouble with it. The sound and music are also throwbacks 
 to an earlier age -- while enthusiastic, there's no masking their synthesizer-like nature.  

  Like Transport Tycoon, Locomotion is a flawed but engaging strategy game. But Locomotion certainly 
 doesn't break any new ground, and its problems aren't as forgivable as those of its 10-year-old 
 predecessor. Those who loved Transport Tycoon may find some of their old feelings rekindled when 
 playing Locomotion. However, if you're someone who was expecting something new, you'll most likely 
 find Locomotion to be nothing more than a fun, lightweight distraction.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (26 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: frank138
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 23, 2008 3:38 pm PT
Review:  This game is a sure successor of Transport Tycoon, it incorporates everything good about business 
 strategy games. I really got hooked on the online multiplayer against my friend Beard27, who has 
 written a review about the game already. It was always fun on a rainy day to play, as it took time 
 and the weather in Britain is awful, so, many of hours were spent on the addictive game. 
  The controls to build the buildings and track along with buying the vehicles are simple and easy 
 to get used to, with you being able to build all types of transport it ranged from rail, bus, tram 
 and plane. This allowed you to build wherever you wanted, to try and take over opposing companies 
 and expand your own company. There also is an option to create your own scenarios, which you can 
 play online, it is easy to do but it is quite time consuming to do. 
  The amount of subsequent add-ons as well for the game were great, downloading extra planes, trains, 
 trams, and buses along with an all new type of transport; the Maglev Train. It runs on a different 
 track than the normal trains and could reach speeds of over 200mph, which was a great advantage 
 for getting the most out of the long distance journeys. It was an expensive way to go though and 
 so only on long distances could it be used but when used it would significantly increase profit 
 from the journey. 
  All in all with the amount of online enjoyment you can have, as long as you have someone else to 
 play against, then it has great replay value. With the add-ons and easy of use the game enhances 
 itself. I believe that the game is well worth playing, and i all hope that you do at some stage 
 play it even if in the end you don't like it, it is well worth a go. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: beardie27
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 4, 2008 10:02 am PT
Review:  I have to say this game is just great, it has so many features, so many maps and of course you 
 can create a unlimated amount of maps for youself so there is no limit to gameplay. All the different 
 vehicles the game has to offer are endless, with good representations of real life technology, 
 this enable the gamer to make real life connections to the game. Even though the town growth in 
 the game happens stupidly quick, and the multiplayer options are limited the game is still wanted 
 by many. The amount of avaliable modding for this games that makes it more realistic for the gamer, 
 extra planes and trains in real life liveries make it more pleasant. The over amount of different 
 transport allows a person to create anything form a simple bus service to mass scale airline company. 
 The creativness of the game allows many possiblities for the user and i believe this is what makes 
 the gamer keep coming back. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MGD11
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 4, 2008 8:45 am PT
Review:  It really has been 10 years since Transport Tycoon Deluxe burst onto our screens, not long after 
 Transport Tycoon itself. So what can i say?:
  
  Game Engine: Actually the same as Roller Coaster Tycoon. You know the click-scroll-click function 
 that allowed you to create long tracks & Roads in an instant? Not here. A major downfall. 
  
  The Scenery is better than TTD in many respects. But this is also something which also makes 
 it harder.
  
  And cities! Oh... get there early, or you'll miss out big time, and be forced to built a station 
 on a bridge. 
  
  Game Play: Not too different to TTD, but better.
  
  Competition: How dumb can you get? the AI needs improving. What we Locomotioners could easily do 
 in about 30 track sections, the AI needs around 45/50 (i ain't joking!) . Often, the AI chooses 
 long distance routes which involve terrible climbs, twists and turns. 
  
  The Vehicles: Slightly overscale. Good variety, but i think an unofficial expansion pack or two 
 is a good idea. Alas, the Rail HP values could be more realistic (an A3 having less power than 
 a A4?) .
  
  To Conclude: a worthwile buy, but you'll need a couple of weeks getting used to the game play/graphics.
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: marioman_64
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 7, 2007 4:33 pm PT
Review:  If you've played Transport Tycoon, you won't be confused about how to play this game. It really 
 brings back the past, and adds little features from our present time. The future? Well, it may 
 be already classified as blatant and dull, but people are sure enjoying this game while they can.
 
  
  The reason why this game is under appreciated is because it takes time to get used to. It's not 
 like you can play this game, right off the bat, and be a master. Luckily for some, there are tutorials 
 for people who seem to not understand the basics. Locomotion is basically like Roller Coaster Tycoon 
 meets a sequel of Transport Tycoon. If you have played those games, then I'm sure I addressed earlier 
 you'd know what to do.
  
  The objective of this game is to either reach a certain goal of cargo transported, or get your 
 company value up to a certain percentage. Your opportunities are endless. Ships, planes, trains, 
 buses, trucks and trams are vehicles you can use to reach your goal. There are tons to use; more 
 are made over time. The only flaw if you were used to the Transport Tycoon series, is the absence 
 of purchasing land from other companies, as well as the monorail/mag-lev trains that used to be 
 available later in that game. Nevertheless, they have been replaced by most features you get from 
 Roller Coaster Tycoon, so don't be disappointed.
  
  Overall, I would strongly suggest you overview this game thoroughly, even play a demo of the game, 
 which can be available on Atari's website, before you purchase this game. Though Chris Sawyer's 
 Locomotion may be a bit harsh to some, I'm sure over time, you will learn to appreciate this game 
 for what it is. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Colonel_here
Rating: 6
Date: Jan 26, 2007 10:06 am PT
Review:  Locomotion is a good game. It got good enough graphics to look at and there are many details such 
 as variation in looks of transportation, growth cycles of the farms, change of buildings with the 
 time period. The music also changes with the time period and there is way to control it to play 
 what you want. The game has nice variety of environments and scenario editor is available. The 
 amount of the transportation vehicles is also large. You have trams, buses, trains, aircrafts, 
 ships. There is wide selection of roads and bridges. The time span of the game is roughly a century 
 and with a bit. You start out in 1900 and while can end playing by 2100 the innovations stop after 
 2004. There is a wide amount of industries to transport things from and too. They also have their 
 own unqie layouts making every transportation connection unique. There is even inflation in the 
 game and industries do open and shut down however there is no logical reasoning behind the shut 
 down of most of the industries, they occur randomly.
  However the problems in this game are just huge it fails as transportation industry simulator because 
 apparently everything except trains is just waste of time to use. Trains can do most task better 
 than any other vehicle. This turns the game into Railway transportation simulator. Passenger AI 
 is stupid and they get out on the next station from which they boarded thus they have no real logical 
 destination in mind. Goods could be transported to same places without any limit on how much those 
 industries or towns can absorb the goods.
  The opponents can be easily sabotaged by blocking their transportation routes.
  The game has 
 problems with reality, the ability to build some projects is impossible to accomplish in real life.
 
  In business simulation it barely approaches any type of business simulation with very limited 
 likeness to the real business environment. The loans are useless after 5 game years. Profits are 
 either too high or cost are too low. There re no real demand and supply relationship except needed 
 requirements of number of big buildings before the endless amount of goods can be damped there. 
 There are no contracts from industries to do the transporting and financing industry has no real 
 advantages such as exclusive rights or dividends payed.
  There are problems with airports and how to place them and expand them which a far cry from reality.
 
  The game is addictive at first but than all the problems come out and so it turns into disappointment. 
 I outlines the specifics on my blog in several parts all titled Locomotion. 
 
  I strongly suggest reading reviews form various sources about the game and trying the demo first 
 before buying it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TyloniusFunk
Rating: 2.9
Date: Jan 10, 2006 1:53 am PT
Review:  This seems to be Chris Sawyer going back to remake Transport Tycoon the way he wanted it to be. 
 Doesn't make it a new game, doesn't make it a modern game. Maybe this is what TT should have been 
 when it was originally released, but now it looks bad, has a clumsy interface and contains an AI 
 and gameplay that quite simply suck. The one and only redeeming feature is the snappy music that 
 quit rightly fits the genre and pace of the game.
  
  This is a dinasaur from the 90s. Do us a favor, Chris Sawyer, but this engine to sleep. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dano78
Rating: 4.1
Date: Dec 11, 2005 12:32 am PT
Review:  I was completely estatic when i learned there was a sequel to TTD and knowing Chris Sawyer was 
 still behind the wheel. However once I installed the game, disappointment became a plauge. Yeah 
 it's alot like TTD but it plays like it should be on your old NES system. I never had the luxury 
 of playing Roller Coaster Tycoon, and have been told that this game's engine and RCT are much alike. 
 I fugured I'd give locomotion my bset shot and try to learn the new ways of building roads and 
 track and such. i never could get use to the pain the building function caused. I'm so use to TTD's 
 building platfrom (as well as other alike sim games) that I just couldn't get a grasp on it. Terrible. 
 Forget the subsidies, you'll never complete them on time. The game has a ton of other features 
 that are really interesting and would have been fun to incorporate however the complexity and time 
 it took just to build a few squared of track/road kept me from exploring all the options. TTD wasn't 
 huge on graphics at all but that was Ok as it was a unique game at the time and really, gameplay 
 maters more to me then ultra detailed graphics. However Locomotion doesn't have any excuses. Advancement 
 in engineering and graphics design should have allowed for a little bit better or more refined 
 graphics than what was used. The sound could have used an upgrade aswell. I think that if Sawyer 
 were to address these simple gripes and maybe add a few more bells and whistles to a Locomotion 
 2, he'd have another awsome game that would blow TTD out of the water. But at this point, I'd rather 
 fight the instability of a modified WinXP version of TTD then try to cope with the engine of Locomotion. 
 If you haven't played either game, this may be worth a try as the game is really an inexpensive 
 investment and about as close as you may get to getting a feel of how good TTD was and really, 
 still is. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Pell1979
Rating: 2.9
Date: Dec 7, 2005 11:31 pm PT
Review:  Let me just start by saying this is the ****TEST game I have ever had the misfortune of hiring 
 out. The reviewers of this game stated that it is almost identical to its predecesor, Transport 
 Tycoon Deluxe. That statement was almost correct. The new game is in actualy fact WORSE.
  
  You'd think with modern technology that you could take such a simple concept and produce a reasonable 
 product. Atari on the other hand has done the complete opposite. It seems that Atari got the original 
 graphics package, dumbed down the pixel level, added new music, and adapted the game to run on 
 modern OS's.
  
  Even the menu system looks rough and ready. To make the game look more *realistic* rather than 
 using solid colour schemes (ie grass being solid green) they have pixelated the ground in multiple 
 colours, making the game world appear EXTREMELY rough, and half-arsed.
  
  Do yourselves a favour. STAY AWAY! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: contrake
Rating: 8.3
Date: Nov 10, 2005 7:20 am PT
Review:  Some bugs and kinda sharp graphics but the bes tycoon after transport tycoon
  But i'll spend a whole week or two to play this game again and again and again... to build your 
 own empire in L. makes you very calm and makes you to go out and start your own company... SOme 
 may say that its just another clone of TTD but actually its more. For a gamer who has never played 
 TT before the game maybe not that interesent. But the original has more quality because its oldschool 
 and retro and its Transport Tycoon Deluxe...
  
  TT and TTD are Transport tycoon and Transport tycoon deluxe 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LoJo10
Rating: 7.7
Date: Aug 2, 2005 6:40 pm PT
Review:  This game is deceptively good. Yes, the box is very plain, but the easy to learn hard to master 
 gameplay is the game's best feature. The goal of the game is to make money. There are a lot of 
 scenario's with different levels of difficulty, and basically the goals change every time. For 
 instance, in a scenario it may be, transport 50,000 gallons of oil in 10 years. Basically, from 
 that point on, you have to manage how to transport the cargo from the oil well to the factory where 
 it needs to go. You could use a train with railroad tracks, but trains and its cars cost a lot 
 to maintain, let alone buy. 
  In short, I would highly recommend this game to anyone who likes economy-type simulations, real 
 time strategy games, and spending $5 for a high quality game with good gameplay. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wickedd
Rating: 2.1
Date: Apr 2, 2005 11:58 pm PT
Review:  When I heard about Locomotion for the first time I was thrilled. WOW! Finally after almost 10 years 
 Chris Sawyer made a successor to Transport Tycoon! Without hesitation Ive downloaded the 
 demo.
  When the main menu appeared it hit me: I know that menu Roller Coaster Tycoon had 
 menu like that!. I was right 256 color, slow and crappy RCT game engine. All menus 
 were in fact from RCT, but I thought why not? I launched a tutorial and started looking in options 
 menu. No game settings, no difficulty settings, only sound driver, resolution and keyboard shortcuts, 
 all the same as in RCT. I thought theyre trying to simplify things so I continued the tutorial 
 mission.
  
    Audio-Visual Experience:
  Like I said before, game is made on RCT graphic engine. 256 colors were fine in TTD but it was 
 almost 10 years ago! Why game requirements are PIII 800MHz and 128MB of RAM? Its even not 
 working smoothly on 1.8GHz Athlon with 256 MB DDR. I like old games, but this is ridiculous. All 
 graphics are 2D, including vehicles, trees, buildings and so on, and if they were more colorful 
 it would be nicer for an eye. All map viewing modes are also from RTC, so you have underground 
 view, height of segments, building transparency etc. Some are useful some not. Map can be turned 
 around by 90 degrees (RCT again) , there are 3 or 4 zoom levels, but zoom out will hit performance 
 very hard
  Music is categorized by eras like in TTD, but its not MIDI anymore, but it at least is not 
 annoying and can be turned of if someone thinks different. Quality of sound is good, vehicles and 
 environment sounds make a nice background .
  
    Building a network:
  Connect two cities with a bus line. Okay, lets do that. Unfortunately all construction also 
 were from RCT. What happened to old TTD like system ? Oh Right. RCT engine 
 However building straight roads is simple, crossing roads may be annoying. Old TTD system was better 
 about that and long straight lines too. Roads are now divided in dirt roads (cheapest but has lowest 
 maximum speed) , roads and one-way lanes that let you build high capacity avenues. Another thing 
 you notice is a small change in bus stops. Now you have Bus Stops and Passenger Terminals, key 
 difference is that bus stops are built on roads like all these local bus lines where bus stops 
 by a sign and passenger terminal is built on a dead-end road. Personally I have no idea what for 
 are terminals if bus stops act in that same way but are cheaper and easier to build (you dont 
 have to build a dead end for it) . Cargo stations are built in the same way as passenger terminals, 
 also it is now possible to have multiple terminals one by another and they will act as a single 
 station. 
  Next task was a railroad line and that is what really makes me mad Building a single line 
 is a piece of cake, but when it comes to junctions and more complex routes it wont work. In TTD 
 that was simple mostly because of sharp 90 degrees turns. Locomotion however doesnt have 
 those. Here 90 deg turn requires 2x2 space, tracks on slopes take 2 blocks long stone bridges (say 
 what ??) . Thats right Now you can build high bridges over canyons and even over cities 
 if you can afford them, but along came a bug: slopes may be built only with stone bridge which 
 has low maximum speed of train (50kmh or so) and like I said before, it takes 2 block long for 
 every 1 block up. Level tracks allow using other bridge types (with higher or even unlimited train 
 speed) , but they cant turn or join with each other (with one exception) .
  Signals are acting exactly the same as in TTD so you have to-way signal, allowing trains to go 
 in both ways thru and you have one-way signals that prevent trains from getting back. Useful for 
 traffic management. Whole railway system is divided into 3 basic categories: 
  1) railroad (which is divided into normal, overhead electrified, 3rd rail electrified) ;
  2) narrow 
 railroad;
  3) streetcar rails (these can be also built along roads) . 
  
  Air and sea transport is the same as in TTD: you need 2 at least airports for air transport route 
 and at least 2 docks that can see each other for sea route.
  
     Vehicles:
  Unlike TTD, here are no depots or anything like it. You just buy a vehicle (bus, 
 truck, train or whatever) place it on a map, set it route and press GO button. Its 
 that simple. Unfortunately no depots means that now you must do all these things that usually depots 
 would do for you. In practice it look like this:
  You buy a bus, set it route and let it make money. After a few years (10 at maximum) vehicle reliability 
 will be about 5%, witch means it will be breaking down every 5-10 blocks. Thats right! It 
 starts from a bus stop, travels 5 blocks and stops because of brake down, then it starts again 
 and stops again. So what you have to do? YES! Buy a new one! Now when you have 5 buses and a train, 
 its easy to maintain, but what happens when your network is expanding? And guess what? You 
 cannot turn off breakdowns like in TTD.
  Another thing that you notice about vehicles is that they have no even tiny bit of brain. You have 
 to tell them witch way to go. Luckily now its possible to set a waypoints, but its 
 not a huge help. Ive noticed that trains plan a route about 5 blocks away, so you may say 
 goodbye to complex train junctions known from TTD. It just wont work. Train will go where it want 
 to go. Same with road vehicles and ships. Only airplanes are working fine, but its because 
 the fly over the map without regard for roads/tracks/etc. Good for them
  
    Summary:
  Im a huge fan of TTD and thought that Locomotion will be a good successor, 
 but Im VERY disappointed with it. It has whole bag of bugs in it that really make me annoyed. 
 I tied to like this game but it just dont work.
  
  PS: I wrote that I played a demo, thats true, but Ive also played full version for 
 couple of hours and noticed that full version has more scenarios and vehicles. Bugs and whole idea 
 are the same.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: andy_bate
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jan 7, 2005 1:07 pm PT
Review:  During the 80's and early 90's, bedroom game programmers were very popular, in a time when gameplay 
 was more important then graphics. One of the bedroom game programmers was Chris Sawyer, in 1994 
 he released transport tycoon deluxe, a buisness transport empire simulation. Your job was to build 
 transport routes between industries and cities, making a profit so you could expand your transport 
 empire futher. The game is considered a true classic.
  
  By the late 90's bedroom programmers were disapearing, games required teams of 10+ people to create. 
 In 1999 Hasbo Interactive published Chris Sawyer's Rollercoaster Tycoon. I'm sure I don't have 
 to tell you about this game, because you should know that this is one of the best games of all 
 time. 2002 Infogrammes published Chris Sawyer's RCT2, an upgrade of the previous, the graphics 
 were praticulay the same, but new features were added.
  
  Chris Sawyer's games are known more for their gameplay then graphics. A benefit of this is that 
 anyone can enjoy his games, even if you have an old P2 system.
  
  Fast forward to 2004 and Chris Sawyer, last of the bedroom programmers released locomotion, a direct 
 sequal of 1994 transport tycoon deluxe. The goal is still the same, make a profit by building a 
 world class transport system to rival British rail (very easy to do) .
  
  GamePlay: The maps are bigger, the AI is more inteligent, some annoying problems of transport tycoon 
 have been fixed (e. g. instead of occupying a tile with a bus terminal for each bus stop, you now 
 can put bus stops directly on the road, no more deleting buildings!) .
  
  Graphics: Chris Sawyer has a distinct interface that is the same for ttdx, RCT and locomotion. 
 The interface is easy to use, the windows and tabs are easy to navigate. The graphics are not much 
 different from ttdx, maybe some extra work could had been done on them, but the game certainly 
 looks better in 2D then 3D.
  
  Sound: Midi music, a lot of people have complained about it, but it does not seem to bother me 
 to much. The train noises get annoying though.
  
  Value: At 12 the game is not very expensive, which is good, Atari could never sell this game at 
 the same price as other bran new games.
  
  Chris Sawyer has taken some annoying dissions, such as dumming down the game, there are no easy-medium-hard-custom 
 mode as in ttdx, just scenarios which are sorted in difficulty.
  
  The scenario editor is brilliant and is easy to use to create your own maps. The supplied scenarios 
 are mostly fun to play, and you find they can keep you occupied the whole 100 year span of the 
 game.
  
  Do I recommend this game? Yes, but only if your into buisness management games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ScottAdams
Rating: 3.1
Date: Jan 3, 2005 10:48 pm PT
Review:  I bought this game because I have recently found myself in a big tycoon-ish phase of my gaming. 
 When I loaded this one up, I had hopes of a week or so of fun taking over the world of rail transportation.
 
  
  First, trains make up about 10% of all the tedious things you need to develop and manage to be 
 mildly successful in this game. There are like 20 types of trucks, a bunch of buses, planes, boats, 
 trams and potantially hundreds of stops and cargo locations to keep track of. Normally, this would 
 be fun, but somehow, this totally misses the mark.
  
  Second, there is the late 80s interface and style that is not so much nostalgic as it is infuriating. 
 Clunky graphics don't help it out either.
  
  Save yourself the money and the trouble, and buy some other game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Darth_Roel
Rating: 6.5
Date: Oct 9, 2004 7:47 pm PT
Review:  Like many who have been playing Transport Tycoon in one form or another since it came out way back 
 when, I was very happy when I heard the news that Chris Sawyer was coming out with what he called 
 the "spiritual succesor" to TT.
  However after having played around with it for quite a bit now, I find I'd rather just go back 
 and play some more TTD.
  As is clear to anyone who's ever played Chris Sawyer's other big games, Rollercoaster Tycoon 1 
 & 2, this game uses the same graphic engine as those games. This means that the graphics aren't 
 really state of the art, but more then good enough to convey any relevant information you might 
 need. Unfortunately another thing lifted from the RCT games is the way you lay rails and roads. 
 Locomotion lets you build these just like you built footpaths in RCT: one piece at a time. Now 
 this isn't such a bad idea for RCT, but when building long streches of rails it's a bit annoying 
 in Locomotion.
  The game is mainly geared at a single player experience, which is fine for this type of game. The 
 main component of the game are the various scenario's (just like in RCT) which have varying difficulties 
 and give you different types of goals, from reaching a certain level of performance to transporting 
 a certain type of cargo in a limited time. I haven't played all of these (not sure if I ever will) 
 but the easier ones serve as a nice introduction to the player of the game, however after that 
 it tends to become more of the same. As you progress through the scenario's you'll start to encoutner 
 the AI players. Now the AI wasn't too good in the original TT, which was partly due to the simple 
 fact that the when the game came out a Pentium MMX was considered to be a fast system so there 
 wasn't that much CPU power. Seeing as how the graphic engine used shouldn't be too taxing to a 
 modern system, this should leave more then enough juice to power some decent AI. However this isn't 
 the case. The computer has a knack for putting as many corners as is possible into every track 
 it builds and generally making a mess of its tracks. Often they'll just get in your way, without 
 actually doing something usefull for themselves. As it is almost impossible to make a loss when 
 setting up a simple train route, your computer competitors will not go broke and will be there 
 to annoy you for some time to come.
  The fact that game has been released as a budget title may make it appealing to those who have 
 been playing TT for all those years, and for $20 it might be worth a try. I for one however am 
 going back to TTD. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mark McGann
Rating: 4.2
Date: Oct 4, 2004 2:56 pm PT
Review:  I loved Transport Tycoon Deluxe, and I really wanted to love this game, even if it was just TTD 
 with better graphics. Unfortunately Locomotion has a critical problem that can be summed up in 
 one sentence.
  
  Laying track is awkward and frusterating.
  
  This kills my enjoyment of the game. Every time I try and give the game a chance, I do ok until 
 I need to lay track, and then I start tearing my hair out.
  
  The way it works is you build from the end of an exiting piece of track. You can't simply drop 
 track where you need it. This seems to arise from the fact that there now curved pieces of tract, 
 as opposed to just straight ones. The problem is guiding where the track is going is like backing 
 up a car with a trailer, it's very difficult to guide exactly where it's going. There is a lot 
 of trial and error to get it right and you send way to much time concentrating on laying little 
 sections of track than paying attention to the overall layout.
  
  Other than this the game has a some good and some bad, but the track laying problem really prevents 
 you from getting into the rest of the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RLJSlick
Rating: 4.1
Date: Oct 1, 2004 6:27 pm PT
Review:  I was a Transport Tycoon nut! I loved that game, couldnt play it enough, but who would ever believe 
 that I would be playing basically the same game in the 21st century. I can not believe that Atari 
 would charge $29 for this, this game have almost nothing new to offer then that awesome game 10 
 years go. The graphics interface, and sounds, all seem like the same. I think Chris just made it 
 work in XP and re-box it. I totally dont recommend this game, at all there is nothing, and I mean 
 nothing that would keep your interest with all the much, much cooler games out! Do yourself a favor 
 and go get Sim City 4 and be happy with a company that actually put some thought into redoing a 
 classic! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JGrieger
Rating: 4
Date: Sep 28, 2004 6:11 pm PT
Review:  I wasn't a PC user at the time that Transport Tycoon came out but I love Tycoon and business simulation 
 games. So, when I heard about this game coming out, I was expecting a great deal. I admit that 
 I might have set my expectations too high but given the current state of most games and the fact 
 that Chris Sawyer has this reputation, I thought I would get something close to the mark when I 
 started playing Locomotion. 
  
  First off, I've played Rollercoaster Tycoon (1 and 2) and as much as I loved the genre (I played 
 SimThemePark before RT) , the scenario-based RT2 game play annoyed me. At the time, the graphics 
 were decent and secondary to game play. Nowadays, though, given the state of games and with RT3 
 coming without Chris Sawyer (though with his advice) and with a snazzy 3D engine, you have to wonder 
 why they bothered putting this game out. It basically uses the RT2 engine so a lot of things from 
 the opening screen to the scenario system to the actual game world are almost exact copies.
  
  Similarities aside, actual game play was fairly uninspiring. The most notable thing when playing 
 the earlier scenarios (I haven't gotten to the later ones since I got bored fast) was the terrain. 
 The generated terrain was blocky and rough. Sure, it's a nice challenge but since we're using the 
 tedious RT2 track laying system, it becomes a chore. Instead of using a system like SimCity where 
 you can click a starting point and drag to an end point, with the intermediate details worked out 
 by the game, here you're clicking a button for each segment of the track, road, whatever, and clicking 
 other buttons to change direction and elevation.
  
  When it comes to actually running goods, the general layout and placement of businesses make it 
 hugely expensive to build a decent goods network, though this is a legitimate challenge, in a way. 
 The thing that makes it difficult is the fact that each depot/terminal you create is limited to 
 a specific number of vehicles. So, you could run tram track from one city to another but you can 
 only run two trams (left and right side tracks) on one track. Same thing goes with trucks. You 
 place a depot and a two laned road between them, you can only run two trucks. Well, that's not 
 100% true. You can run more but they get confused fast. I tried running two runs of track in parallel 
 to the same end terminals using signals to control the two (and at one point three) trains but 
 they wouldn't listen. Instead of following the prescribed path I gave them (you can set signal 
 waypoints so they follow a particular path across multiple signals/tracks) , they would at times 
 forget the waypoints and go down the same length of track... which would result in them both getting 
 stuck at a signal. The only course of action is to create parallel lengths of tracks going to distinct 
 terminals. Try to run more than a couple trains and you end up with a row of terminals leading 
 out of the city radius. Just way too rigid a system.
  
  Additionally, the audio is forgettable, though I believe you can play your own MP3s (I'm guessing 
 because I wasn't interested) . You can save when you please. And, there is an included world editor. 
 But ultimately, this is someone's attempt to make use of aging code to make a quick game and buck. 
 It's sad, really, as all it does is hurt the credibility of the developer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mindmagestic
Rating: 6.5
Date: Sep 20, 2004 7:11 am PT
Review:  Hello everyone,
  
  Well, this game sometimes can be very nasty and you will spend an incredible amount of time to 
 build your first track properly for those who have the patience. I think the most uselful tips 
 is to save your game before doing a new transport line. The most frustrating, is the cross line 
 signal with trains, that sometimes doesn't work properly. 
  
  But when you have learned the game how they work and how the track can be build with a minimum 
 amount investement and also avoiding all this ambush, the game is very addictive. And for a cheap 
 price $20 it's a good bed.
  
  This game is clearly for fan of the genre.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: prenloe
Rating: 5.7
Date: Sep 18, 2004 6:40 pm PT
Review:  Locomotion is a remake of Chris Sawyers classic Transport Tycoon. For those of us who played Transport 
 Tycoon, we remember being sucked into a fully digital world where we could set up bus, train or 
 airline routes all for the sake of making money. Locomotion succeeds in recreating this world for 
 us, even if it is slightly less fulfilled than before. 
  
  The basic premise behind Locomotion is identical to any other tycoon/management simulation. You 
 set up and run a successful business and make as much money as possible. There is nothing revolutionary 
 about the game, which is not necessarily a mark against it. You are tasked with setting up a successful 
 transport empire. To make money, you transport goods and people from point A to point B.
  
  The game is substandard in terms of graphical achievements. The environment is functional, but 
 not pleasing in any sense of the word. There is no full 3D and on the closest zoom setting, everything 
 looks blocky and blurred. The animations work well enough, but there arent enough of them to really 
 help the game. 
  
  There are a few features left out of Locomotion that hurt the game. Where is the ability to buy 
 stocks in other companies? How about the option to buy land for a later use? Both were almost essential 
 to success in the games predecessor and would have gone a long way to making this game all that 
 it could be. 
  
  Locomotion is neither spectacular nor revolutionary. I would recommend it only to fans of the original 
 or of the tycoon genre.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: MisterHarryZ
Rating: 6.6
Date: Sep 17, 2004 1:11 pm PT
Review:  I'm a fan of both Transport Tycoon and Rollercoaster Tycoon (the original, not the frankly poor 
 sequel) , so I wanted to like this, the latest release from Chris Sawyer. And, generally, I found 
 lots to like, but there are some annoying problems as well.
  
  To start with, I tried the tutorial for building a bus route, so I wouldnt be completely clueless 
 (Its been a while since I played TT) when I started playing for real. The tutorial is helpful 
 enough, but it takes too long to show you how to do something. There are awkward pauses in the 
 control when you wish it would just get on with the job in hand.
  
  Lets start with the first level  a tiny island with just three towns. Perfect  what could possibly 
 go wrong? Well, three failed attempts at linking the coal mine to the steel works later, I now 
 know. As it turns out, quite a lot. Theres no undo button, so you can either save regularly, 
 or restart the level equally regularly. This gets annoying quickly.
  
  One of the games main setbacks is the graphics. Theyve hardly changed since TT, which dates back 
 to the early 1990s. Since were now in 2004, this really says something. You get the feeling that 
 they simply tweaked a few of TTs features, slapped new box art on it and chucked it out amongst 
 Unreal Tournament 2004 and Far Cry. While the graphics look alright up close, zoom out to the furthest 
 level and you get a load of ugly-looking rectangles of sand, snow etc. Bad form, Mr Sawyer. Bad 
 form indeed.
  
  Some annoying little gameplay nuances become apparent quickly. Because some vehicles can take more 
 than one type of cargo, I found that trains will set off with orders to carry the wrong cargo  
 coal instead of iron ore, because the command to order trains to change loads is hidden. This doesnt 
 sound like much, but it could be a big deal when youve got a large train network.
  
  The sound is a redeeming feature  the sound effects all sound realistic  from the whistle of 
 the steam train down to the whirr of the electric tram. The music varies depending on the era you 
 play in. After a while though, it all sounds the same, and quickly becomes another annoyance.
 
  
  Dont think for one second that I hate the game though  I found it highly enjoyable. Its definitely 
 an improvement over Transport Tycoon, despite its few faults. If you have the patience, its definitely 
 one to buy. And at UKP 19.99, the price is right.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: peacsea
Rating: 4.5
Date: Sep 15, 2004 5:07 am PT
Review:  Unfortunately, I've never had the chance to play the original Transport Tycoon. Having heard so 
 many great things about Rollercoaster Tycoon, I decided to give this one a chance as I've always 
 enjoyed city building (Sim City) and the transportation problems/solutions that the game allowed 
 for.
  
  The first problem I came across was the true lack of training scenarios available. Not that I enjoy 
 having to sit down for hours on end just to learn a game, but two 5 minute scenarios on busses 
 and one on passenger trains isn't quite enough. A little more indepth training on passenger service 
 as well as a scenario or two on the shipment of goods would have been a benefit.
  
  Overall, I found the game play to be a terrible disappointment. I will give it a couple more tries, 
 but being let down this early is usually not a good sign (I only purchased it this afternoon) and 
 it will shortly end up along the bottom shelf. In the mean time, I'll stick with Sim City 4.... 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jpinard
Rating: 5.2
Date: Sep 13, 2004 4:54 am PT
Review:  Take Chris Sawyer's old Transport Tycoon, and mix with Rollercoaster Tycoon 50,000 and you have 
 Locomotion. Granted that's OK since he techically started Rollercoaster Tycoon AFTER he'd started 
 Locomotion with this engine. But what's disappointing is the lack of basic features in the game, 
 and the total lack of effort involved to bring more graphic style in. THis is a Chris Sawyer production, 
 not an Atari production so he didn't have the corporate meatheads interfering with his design. 
 Because of this it's inexcusable there's not an addiitonal level of zoom, and worse no way to swap 
 out those aging 80 busses all at once. Yep that's right, flying in the face of all that's normal 
 - you must click each bus manually, and swap it out for your upgrade. AND you get to do it 80 times! 
 Things like this make me feel like CHris didn't spend too much time actually playing his own creation. 
 It feels more like he had a design that was still waiting to be finished from year's ago, and that's 
 about all he did... I'd expect this from a new developer who's been living on pizza crust for the 
 last 2 years, not one who's now a millionaire... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gumpo
Rating: 7.7
Date: Sep 12, 2004 9:47 pm PT
Review:  Locomotion has big shoes to fill - It's the sequel to a game nearly 10 years old, that was the 
 best game of its kind for a very long time. Following up such a great game is a hard thing to do, 
 especially when all the core elements of gameplay have remained almost identical, and the graphics 
 have only been slightly refined.
  
  So, let me start off with some of the cool features this game brings to the table.
  
  Locomotion 
 has pretty graphics - while essentially the same as in older Tycoon games, they have been given 
 a little polish, as well as a high range of resolution choices. Resolution range from 640 x 480 
 all the way up to 1600 x 1200. Color depth can be in 16 or 32 bit, and there are several levels 
 of zoom, with customizable detail level.
  
  The only real addition to core gameplay since Transport Tycoon seems to be the ability to build 
 tram cars and tracks, and heliports and helicopters. This is in addition to the previously available 
 Trains, Busses, Trucks, Boats, and Planes. Of course, as in most games in the genre, you can customize 
 your vehicles to maximize their effeciency. For instance, you can make a train with two passenger 
 cars and a mail car, or, a train with 4 boxcars for goods and 2 flatbeds for lumber. Airplanes 
 and boats can be refitted to transport whichever good you want, or passenger or mail.
  
  The game plays out as you and your competitors build up a transport empire. Generally, you begin 
 picking parts in cities to be bus stops, and get a few busses going back and forth. You also usually 
 start up a train going from one facility to another. As you bring in money, you continue with this 
 process. The towns which you are importing and exporting goods from then start to grow rapidly, 
 and you have to provide them with better passenger services. This continues almost infinitely, 
 untill you have reached the goal of your current scenario. In general, this is a very fun system 
 and it works well.
  
  But now for my complaints.
  
  The most important thing in Locomotion is building a network of train tracks and moving trains 
 on them from point to point. There are several problems that arise in this system.
  
  Firstly, instead of dragging and dropping tracks like you would in Sim City or the original Transport 
 Tycoon, you make tracks like you made coasters in Rollercoaster Tycoon. It can be very aggrivating 
 at times, even though it does allow for more possibilities of tracks.
  
  Secondly, trains get confused very easily when there is more then 1 route they can follow, and 
 placing signals or editing the route data for the train often doesnt help at all. It can take you 
 as much as a half hour to design the apropriate track layout that doesnt confuse your trains.
 
  
  Lastly, your trains sometimes pick up loads you dont want them to. For example, i had a train going 
 from a forest to a paper plant. The train was told to pick up lumber, drop it all off at the paper 
 plant, and go back for more. Instead, the train loaded up on paper after it delivered the lumber, 
 and then couldnt sell its cargo at the other station, and thus was nothing but a loss of money.
 
  
  In essence, this is a great game. After you figure everything out and get going, its a lot of fun. 
 Hopefully a few patches will come out soon to fix some of the stupid problems the trains seem to 
 have. It also might take you a while to be able to contend with your competitors - they're hard 
 even on easy, as they can make the trains do everything right the first time.
  
  Is it worth the price tag? Yes.
  Im sure Locomotion will keep anyone interested in the genre 
 busy for a very long time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NeoNeoNeo
Rating: 4.5
Date: Sep 12, 2004 7:28 pm PT
Review:  I suspect that many fans of Transport Tycoon will be very disappointed in this game. I was a big 
 fan of the original and really enjoyed the gameplay. I was only fustrated with Locomotion and did 
 not enjoy the gameplay at all. This lack of enjoyment goes beyond the fact there were not any real 
 changes to TT's basic setup. There were numerous problems in trying to set up routes that should 
 not have occurred and I was not prepared to learn every quirk and quibble of the game to compensate 
 for them. The most glaring problems I had were as follows:
  
  It was very difficult and expensive to alter terrain. This was mostly due to the (uncorrectable 
 in a patch) viewing angles and zooming options available. It was too hard to see and distinguish 
 the terrain and too hard to figure out why it would not let you build the track due to terrain 
 problems. Since being able to make best use of the terrain is so critical, I cannot understand 
 how this was overlooked.
  
  Shipping proved a nightmare. I experimented with shipping the most given the difficulty in setting 
 up rail routes over uneven terrain. For example, I had set up a route to transport wood to a sawmill. 
 Once unloaded the ship would load up goods automatically and I could not seem to get the force 
 unload command to work. The ships were then simply expenses as they would never load a new cargo. 
 A patch will have to be installed that will let you refuse to load certain cargos as a routing 
 option. Also until the force unload command works, no one will be able to set up intermodal routes 
 where ships transport cargo part of the way and trucks or trains take it the rest of the way.
 
  Furthermore with shipping why was an option to create canals and locks not included?
  
  I had many other difficulties but as I became so disenchanted with what might have been a worthy 
 successor to Transport Tycoon that I did not bother to figure out if they were merely a part of 
 the learning curve or reprsented other gameplay flaws. Overall in my opinion, Locomotion is a poor 
 game.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ncseric
Rating: 9.3
Date: Sep 10, 2004 4:59 pm PT
Review:  I just got the game yesterday and I'm already impressed. There are lots of improvements that I've 
 seen in other Chris Sawyer games, as well as elements from other games that I also enjoy. 
  
  The first feature that I really enjoyed was the tram/streetcar feature. I enjoyed this feature 
 from JoWood's Traffic Giant game that allowed you to have streetcar lines. In Traffic Giant, you 
 had to content with auto traffic slowing your trams down, which isn't a problem in Locomotion (other 
 than road vehicles you might have) . I was surprised at how quickly the towns built up where I put 
 trams covering most of the city. The only tricky part is expanding the network once you have a 
 fair number of trams running around. 
  
  Another change that I appreciate, being a model railroader, is accurate track configurations. While 
 it's a bit tricky to figure out how to make junctions and interchanges, the results look a lot 
 more like railroads and less like the massive messes that you got in TT. Instead of the train spinning 
 around in a circle on the interchange, the gradual curves common to mainline railroads make the 
 trains look almost graceful as they go around curves and switch tracks. One feature that could 
 be improved is an easier way to join tracks, especially coming out of stations. I was building 
 a roll-in/roll-out station for a busy oil refinery and I had to get used to curving all the tracks 
 into a massive switch. The yard "throats" are quite a bit bigger and it took some extra "money" 
 to figure out the best configuration so any train could go to any station track. I also like the 
 ability to expand and contract stations without having to destroy them completely. 
  
  One complaint is that on a 1920x1200 screen the graphics look extremely small and there's no way 
 to zoom in closer than I can. As is typical with a laptop, using graphics modes other than what 
 the screen was designed for causes graphics to get extremely choppy. I see this quite a bit in 
 the signals and when I'm trying to join tracks together. 
  
  In spite of the minor issues, this is an outstanding game and I look forward to losing complete 
 track of time playing it, as I did with TT and TT Deluxe. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Wensicia
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 7, 2004 11:48 am PT
Review:  I have fond the demo very addictive by playing it over and over for about 6 hours everyday. I have 
 full game on 9/8/2004. and I will giving a better review for this game.
  I find the graphic good and easy to learn to play this game, the two different mission
  and good 
 to play, the first mission called Boulder Beach you need to make 10.0 %
  and the second mission called Great Britain & Ireland 1955 the % rate is 70.0 to become 
  chairman. 
 the vehicles are great to look at in both mission, my favorite is Comet jet of 1952 and it is neat 
 to watch it land and takeoof from the airports in the game. One major
  new thing in this game you buy two train engines and put them together as a single unit.
  
 
  thanks
  
  Czar Aleksander 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
