-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Chrome SpecForce
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/action/chromespecforce/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Decent variety in mission design.
 Interesting level design.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Dated graphics.
 Cumbersome inventory management.
 Underpowered weapons just aren't fun to use.
 AI ranges from cheap to moronic.
 Useless power-ups.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Jan 20, 2006
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 5.2
Critic Score: 6.1, 16 Review (s)
User Score: 7.0, 259 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: TopWare
Developer: Techland
Genre: Sci-Fi First-Person...
Date:     Nov 30, 2005
ESRB: Mature

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Chrome SpecForce manages to avoid going terribly awry, but it also avoids any sort of fun or excitement. 
 

  Like sci-fi movies, futuristic shooters tend to be hit or miss. For every  Total Recall  there's 
 a  Battlefield Earth , and for every Halo there's a Starship Troopers. Chrome SpecForce is neither 
 a hit nor a miss, because while it manages to avoid going terribly awry, it also avoids any sort 
 of fun or excitement. SpecForce falls smack in the middle of mediocrity, and it seems that every 
 good idea or interesting gameplay mechanic is countered by an underwhelming or annoying design 
 flaw.  

          Bolt Logan is back to save the world once again in Chrome SpecForce.     

  Chrome SpecForce 
 is the follow-up to 2003's Chrome, and in SpecForce you once again play as the awesomely named 
 Bolt Logan, who is a member of the elite SpecForce soldiers. The story is fairly transparent, and 
 since there are no cutscenes to move it along, most of the plot information you receive comes from 
 some brief text on the loading screen before each mission. Apparently there's some sort of conflict 
 going down on the planet of Estrella, and the SpecForce has been commissioned to take care of it. 
 Eventually you learn that a huge, insidious corporation is training supersoldiers and threatening 
 the very existence of the planet. Bolt Logan and the SpecForce soldiers have to save the day by 
 trudging through jungles and military bases to hack computers, blow up key structures, save prisoners, 
 and so on.  

  As clich as the missions are, they're at least somewhat varied. While you spend most of the game 
 on foot, running around and shooting enemies, there are times when you have to hop on a speeder 
 bike, pilot a huge mech, or man a turret to fend off aerial attacks. The vehicles are generic, 
 but they work well to break up the monotony of the rest of the game. In addition to piloting vehicles 
 and shooting, you occasionally have to hack a computer system to unlock a door, upload a crippling 
 virus, or retrieve some information. This whole hacking thing plays out like a simple game of memory, 
 where you reveal tiles and match like shapes to eventually clear the board. These sections are 
 laughably easy, to the point that it makes the minigame seem like pointless busy work.  

  The rest of the game is spent on foot, engaging in firefights with the same few enemies over and 
 over. And while there's nothing especially wrong with that, the shooting in SpecForce is just boring 
 and tedious. For one thing, the weapons are all so weak that they just aren't fun to use. They 
 are all pretty standard: there's a 9mm pistol, an assault rifle, shotgun, rocket launcher, grenades, 
 and a few others. The guns all feel completely anemic in terms of firepower. The weapon sounds 
 are thin and lack some much-needed kick, they don't look particularly menacing, and it often takes 
 an inordinate amount of shots to take down an enemy. Another problem is that there's no sense of 
 range with any of the guns. You can snipe enemies from hundreds of yards away just using your assault 
 rifle. As a result, you can just about play through the entire game without ever bothering to pick 
 up any other weapons.  

  And, you won't want to bother with other weapons because the inventory system is so annoying and 
 cumbersome. SpecForce uses the same inventory system as the previous Chrome game. You can search 
 the corpses of the people you kill to get items, and when you do so it brings up your inventory 
 screen. The inventory screen looks a lot like one from a role-playing game, with a grid that you 
 have to fit all of your equipment into. Your inventory space isn't very large, so it isn't practical 
 to carry more than one gun. But, as we mentioned previously, it isn't a problem, because the standard 
 assault rifle is about the most useful weapon in the game anyway. This inventory management just 
 feels out of place and unnecessary in a shooter, and you'll quickly get tired of the hassle.  

 
  Another problem with the combat in SpecOps is that the enemy artificial intelligence feels cheap. 
 As soon as you step around a corner, regardless of how hidden you are by the surrounding foliage, 
 you'll get hit immediately. The enemies maintain their posts behind the carefully arranged cover 
 and wait for you to advance. Your best option is to try to snipe the enemies with your assault 
 rifle, or take a few shots and hope the enemy goes down before you do. On the other hand, the AI 
 of the characters on your side is completely moronic. You might be engaged in a heated exchange 
 of firepower, only to have one of your allies walk right in front of you and get wasted immediately. 
 Or, one of your fellow soldiers might walk right up to a dinosaur (yeah, a dinosaur) and stand 
 there getting his skull gnawed without doing anything to defend himself. While you'll hopefully 
 play a bit smarter than your allies, you're still just as weak. Even on medium difficulty you'll 
 die often, because it only takes a couple shots to take you down and there's no body armor to pick 
 up. Luckily, health packs are plentiful, and you can carry around a large stash to keep yourself 
 healthy. You can also save at any time, so even if you do die over and over again, you can just 
 reload your last save and try again.  

  You do have a few special moves at your disposal, but they're mostly useless. Your power armor 
 has four special functions that you can activate as long as your boost gauge is at least partially 
 full. There are power shields, which make you take less damage; motive support, which makes you 
 run slightly faster; camouflage, which makes you invisible; and neural boost, which acts just like 
 slow motion. The speed boost is occasionally helpful, but for the most part these special functions 
 are completely useless. The camouflage rarely works, because even when cloaked, enemies can usually 
 see you and will immediately start shooting at you. The neural boost is pointless, because it just 
 slows everything down, including you. Since the enemies shoot you with pinpoint accuracy, the improved 
 reaction time you might get from the slow motion does nothing to help you out in a fight. The power 
 shields might help, but health packs are more effective at keeping you alive, and they're so plentiful 
 and quick to use that there's no reason not to use them frequently.  

  This game is drawn further from the brink of fun by an outdated and underwhelming presentation. 
 Some of the outdoor levels are quite large and full of foliage, which is great, but none of it 
 looks very good. Ground foliage is all two dimensional, giving the plants the look of a bunch of 
 cardboard cutouts. Textures are blurry and dull, and the weapon models are generic. As you run, 
 the animation makes it look like you're floating along just above the ground, and Bolt's arm looks 
 like a flimsy cutout that has been pasted to the bottom of the screen. There are also some really 
 goofy-looking rag dolls that defy gravity and clip through walls and objects. On top of all that, 
 we noticed some slowdown a few times when the action got heated.  

  The sound is no better in SpecForce. The weapon sounds are all way too weak, and other sound effects, 
 like explosions, do nothing to punctuate the action on the screen. There are some voices to listen 
 to, and while they aren't the worst you'll hear, the delivery is rather lifeless most of the time. 
 The music is almost nonexistent, and it only occasionally picks up for a few seconds before fading 
 away again. What is there sounds good enough, but it's just too subdued to be noteworthy.  

          Who needs a bulky sniper rifle when you can pick guys off from across the map using your 
 standard assault rifle?     

  Chrome SpecForce has some good ideas, and if you can get past the dated presentation and dull gunplay, 
 you might actually enjoy its sci-fi world. If you do manage to keep playing, the game will keep 
 you busy for 8 or 10 hours in the single-player campaign. There's also support for 16-player games 
 via the Internet or a LAN, with a handful of maps and the standard game types, including capture 
 the flag, deathmatch, and king of the hill. Don't get too excited, though, because chances are 
 you'll have a hard time finding anyone to play against online. Still, if you absolutely can't get 
 enough sci-fi action, then you might find something to enjoy in SpecForce. But those few shining 
 moments will quickly fade away, leaving behind a generic, mediocre shooter.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (11 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: jfsebastianII
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 7, 2008 6:56 am PT
Review:  just to add my voice to those saying that this is a VERY underrated game - it has a good gaming 
 experience, good weapons, scenery and action - no bugs that i came across, and the enemy AI is 
 pretty decent. A bit more straightforward than Chrome, but pretty much more of the same, complete 
 with the Star-Wars type Walkers and power station designs that gave Chrome some of its interesting 
 appeal. 
  The game also features an early version of the nanosuit used in Crysis - you are able to switch 
 between heavy armour/better hacking/cloak (which doesn't work at all becasue everyone seems to 
 see you anyway) /and faster speeds
  
  It takes place prior to the events in Chrome, so maybe if you've not played either it's better 
 to play this first, then Chrome afterwards - doing it that way would definitely add to what happens 
 in the plot of Chrome...
  
  the game is mission-based, on several planets with some nice leafy terrain and requires a mixture 
 of some all-out run-and-gun, stealth and sniping. It also has the same inventory system.
  
  another thing to mention is that on the hardest difficulty setting the enemy snipers really do 
 just pick you off a bit easily, so to make it a bit more fun, the next level down is probably best. 
 the first time you play, though i went for the hardest the secomd time and didn't have too many 
 problems 
  
  SO if i haven't already mentioned Chrome enough ... if you enjoyed Chrome, you'll enjoy this! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lightworks
Rating: 7.2
Date: Jul 9, 2007 10:19 am PT
Review:  If you're into the first Chome, which I thought was a pretty underestimated and underrated breakthrough 
 for FPS games that provided you a sense of freedom and non-linearity.
  
  For this pseudo-sequel, the graphics still haven't changed; and neither is anything else. This 
 can make the game feel kinda outdated, but it still retains that good old shoot'em up fun.
  
  Don't let other reviews take you down. It's lacking on quite some levels, but if you're looking 
 for another shooter, with some fun to be had, take a look at this! There are FAR worse games out 
 there than this one.
  
  As I said above; it's not groundbreaking, but it's not bad either. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: iismatthew
Rating: 8.1
Date: Jun 18, 2007 2:27 pm PT
Review:  Played the first level and its a great game its missing some things but im having alot of fun with 
 it. it's fun but not to easy and it has pretty good a. i. from what i've seen the vehicles are fun 
 and the combat is solid. its a lil dificult to master all the comands but once you figuer it out 
 you'll be having a blast. when i first saw the game i was worried it might not be to good (gamespot 
 did give it a 5.2) and i respect that its definetly a game you have to want to like and its not 
 to great but its definetly one to add to your collection if you like scifi fps 
::::::

::::::
UserName: splintercell_75
Rating: 7
Date: Jun 7, 2007 6:51 am PT
Review:  Okay this was always going to be a buy for me. By the way fellow gamers I picked this up from Gametraders 
 Chermside for $4.00 AUD second hand. Yes they buy and sell second hand games! Free plug for Gametraders! 
 Back to the review. Anyway as I did enjoy Chrome immensely I thought the sequel would be as good 
 and even better. The gameplay is good. The story is not what one expects. This could be viewed 
 as a prequel not a sequel because as we know our hero Bolt Logan and his girl made off for futther 
 adventures at the close of Chrome. However in Specforce you are part of a special force that is 
 sent to investigate the ongoings of a rouge organisation. In Chrome the majority of the missions 
 were solo, however, in Specforce you are part of a crack team and you will not only have to take 
 directions and follow orders but also watch your back and ensure the survival of your teammates. 
 The graphics were good. The outdoor scenery is quite good but is no match for the graphics in Far 
 Cry. Gameplay is good but I would recommend the ever useful 8mm machinegun and a 12mm sniper rifle 
 combo especially towards the end. As far as the AI goes I guess I did see an improvement over its 
 predecessor in that the enemy does try and take you by surprise and sometimes even tries to concentrate 
 fire on your allies so that if they can take them out the mission is over. All in all a good game 
 and for $4 a definite buy. :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hugh000270
Rating: 6.9
Date: Apr 2, 2007 2:08 am PT
Review:  Chrome SpecForce seems to have interseting things. I appreciate the character designs and the vehicles 
 although the environment is badly detailed and only a small number of improvements are seen even 
 in high quality.
  
  I haven't still manage to finish the game. Even with it, other guns like sniper rifles seems useless 
 with the machinegun sounding powerfull but actually, it only deals a small amount of damage. The 
 inventory has a nice design although a little hard to get to use with. The powerups are unalanced 
 and the AI is pretty smart or as in pretty buggy on finding their way although they are a little 
 tough. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xvramon
Rating: 7.5
Date: Aug 5, 2006 9:51 pm PT
Review:  this game is higly fun is your are just searching for a game where you can run and kill everybody 
 without having to sneak. The gameplay is actually pretty good i think after playing game like fear 
 hl2 and such i have find this game gameplay pretty good as it have a lot of stuff i never seen 
 in recent game like th e possibility to become invisible or have a shield or even run faster. It 
 also have a good range of weapon and nice vehicle. This game combine rpg and fps style game which 
 i really like and the graphics are alright, the inside is the not the strength of this game. The 
 story is the classic spacial marine super equip and strong that is going to save the world again 
 but we are never tired of this i guess good game overall 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kasrkin_BA
Rating: 7.3
Date: Apr 17, 2006 12:44 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay 
  
  Lets get the negatives out of the way shall we? Most importantly about the game is that 
 the levels were repetitive. Each one had the same old forest/swamp setting with the odd complex 
 building. This was fine if youre into that sort of thing but a game with this much potential 
 should have more varied environments. I understand that the setting is based around a rebellion 
 in a local setting but hell, make it a global setting and add some deserts or some tundra. They 
 did in the original game, why not here?
  
  Another problem I had was that the way the character responded to your commands was slightly different 
 to what youd usually be used to in an FPS. This was quite frustrating until you got the 
 hang of it but it really did effect the quality of the first few missions (probably why I enjoyed 
 the game more second time around) .
  
  The missions were rather generic. Hack this. Escort that. Kill him. Blow that up. Etc. But thats 
 not to say they werent fun to accomplish, they were just a bit uninspired.
  
  Another niggle was the real lack of vehicular mayhem. Sure you got to blow things up in big ol 
 walkers but those moments were very rare. And the speeder bikes were just awful, especially the 
 speeder bike mission.
  
  Onto the positives now. Once youve gotten over the issues the game throws at you, a game 
 briming with some very exciting moments. The first thing you notice is the better than average 
 AI. Admittedly sometimes the enemy can be boneheaded (hell, theyre grunts) but sometimes 
 your quarry can shock you. Let me offer an example. Very first mission and youve just stolen 
 a machine gun walker. You stumble around the corner to find three armed guards looking quite shocked 
 at you. You open fire and all of a sudden two of the guards run in panick while the other, quite 
 futily, fires a few shots at you before panicking and turning away. Just one of those moments where 
 you sit back and go Wow before blowing something else up.
  
  Now, a lot of people have commented on the inventory system. A lot of it bad. I like it. Shocking 
 as it may seem, I know, but I like it. The devs have taken stock of the fact that no-one can carry 
 a whole armoury in their back pocket and have come up with quite a good system. Its something 
 that should be appreciated and I hope to see it in games for years to come. 
  
  Another aspect I quite liked in the more open areas of the game was the ability to bypass enemy 
 footsoldiers unseen using your cunning stealth. Although it was not always perfect, you could save 
 yourself some ammo and health by avoiding unwanted battles. But it does take a lot of trial and 
 error to get the sneaking routine down as you will find your back riddled with bullets the first 
 few times you try. 
  
  
  Graphics 
  
  Although not on the same level as many other shooters released at the same time, the graphics arent 
 all bad. Considering the size of each map the devs havent done a bad job. There are obviously 
 a lot of annoying things such as the same building found twenty times over in the same map.
  
  For me the best bit about the game visually are the bullet sparks. The fact that when you shoot 
 an enemy each bullet produces sparks. I loved it. Reminded me so much of Stargate. I was very impressed 
 each time I made a kill.
  
  
  Sound 
  
  The sound is where the game really struggles. On the music side of things, its pretty good. 
 As well as any generic scifi soundtrack could be to be honest.
  
  The weapons are again adequate. Theres not enough grunt behind them yet its not as 
 bad as to think you were firing BBs. One good thing about the weapon sounds is that they dont 
 sound too generic. You could actually believe they were scifi weapons.
  
  Voice overs. Sweet moses. Thats something that can either send shivers down your spine or 
 make you smile at conversations youve had with characters youve never met. In Chrome, 
 youd be glad you have never met these people. You know that if you did, they would have 
 their shirts tucked into their underwear and will insist on wearing the most unusual hats. In short, 
 the voices are rubbish. But what else would you expect from a game that was made in Poland?
  
  The redeeming quality is the ambient sounds. They absorb you into the world around you quite 
 well. 
  
  
  Value
  
  With a price tag of 15 brand new off the shelf, this game isnt much to sniff at. As long 
 as youre not expecting a super high quality game youll be happy with the purchase. 
 Consider it a standalone expansion pack to the previous Chrome and you'll be happy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ChickenMcBastrd
Rating: 7
Date: Feb 27, 2006 6:56 pm PT
Review:  As featured on loadedinc. com...
  
  A Special Forces team is on a top-secret mission to a planet far, far away. Only five people are 
 in the know, and their objective is to take down an evil corporation that is manufacturing bio-enhancements. 
 No, this isnt the latest Sci-Fi original picture, its SpecForce, a game that takes the first 
 person shooter genre and gives it a giant kick back into history.
  
  In this game, the sequel to 2003s Chrome, you reprise your role as Bolt Logan. Instead of fighting 
 as an elite mercenary hired by corporations, youre operating as a special forces soldier for a 
 governing body who is investigating those same evil corporations. Gone are the planet-to-planet 
 missions across a wide array of environments and atmospheres. Gone is the ability to win new implants 
 through successful completion of missions. Gone is just about all the fun that the original game 
 had. All these elements that Chrome successfully integrated into its gameplay have been substituted 
 by mediocre replacements.
  
  As a member of the SpecForce military, its your job to investigate the planet of Estrella. The 
 LoreGen Corporation has been working with performance enhancing drugs and youre sent in to investigate, 
 and terminate, the illegal experiments. Things go awry and your transport ship, and everyone who 
 knew about your mission, go up in flames. This leaves you and a fellow SpecForce operative alone 
 on a hostile planet with little more than an assault rifle and a few clips between the two of you. 
 Piece of cake, right? The proceeding adventure sees you travel across the planet to sabotage LoreGen 
 and lead a campaign of guerilla warfare with the help of the local resistance. How a resistance 
 movement started on a terraform planet discovered, created, governed, and regulated by an evil 
 corporation is a mystery. I hate to yell plot hole, but its hard to think that the corporation 
 missed rebellious dissident on the job application. Shooters are not traditionally known for their 
 gripping storylines, but with SpecForce its just one of many problems.
  
  The game tries to alleviate some of the issues with the inclusion of a portion of the bio-enhancements 
 from the original game. Four in total, youll have access to power shields, invisible camouflage, 
 speed enhancements, and a neural-boosting unit, which essentially slows down time for a Max Payne 
 bullet time effect. Youll find that these combat supplements, used by your suits battery power, 
 not only help you in combat, but become the reigning factor of it. Because enemies constantly drop 
 batteries that can recharge your system, youll always have the abilities at your disposal. You 
 may find yourself running around, and upon engagement of the enemy, activating your neural enhancement 
 to take them out while sustaining a minimum of damage. Repeat ad-infinitum and you have SpecForces 
 combat nailed down.
  
  The game doesnt force you down this route. Indeed, it can be countered by upping the difficulty 
 which will result in reduced supplies from fallen enemies and hyper-accurate enemy fire. Its the 
 accuracy alone that presents the majority of challenge when dealing with the AI. Its not clumsy, 
 but its not exactly smart either. Enemy soldiers will seek cover every now and then but most of 
 the time theyll charge you or simply get on one knee and fire. A lot of the damage you take will 
 come from prepared defenders when you enter rooms, or when jungle cover conceals enemies. It doesnt 
 help that their camouflage blends seamlessly with the trees and underbrush. Sometimes spotting 
 enemies is impossible without the assistance of your targeting implant.
  
  Then again, who needs accuracy when youre in a giant walking mech? One of the better points of 
 SpecForce is the games inclusion of vehicles. Theres a small selection of land-based vehicles, 
 bi-ped mechs, and aircraft. Zoom around the jungle base in a quick hover-bike scout or take on 
 an entire army with a fully-armed battle mech featuring a vulcan cannon and rockets. The vehicle 
 sequences help break up the typical smattering of objectives which include simple combat from point-a 
 to point-b, strategic planting of bombs, and computer hacking.
  
  Throughout all your objectives youll need to survive, and that means raiding armories and corpses 
 alike for the necessary hardware. Youll find several variants of assault rifles, a pistol, submachine 
 gun, powerful single-shot rifles, rocket launcher, and a few grenades to play with. Both the weapons 
 themselves and the ammo can be taken from storage units and bodies. Since SpecForce uses an inventory 
 system similar to that of Deus Ex, so youll have to select your weapons wisely. Each box of ammo, 
 health kit, and individual weapon takes up space. Most of the time you can carry two weapons, a 
 decent amount of ammo, and sufficient health kits and battery packs to last you a while. Some ammunition 
 isnt as plentiful, so its important to learn the advantages and disadvantages of each weapon 
 so you dont rely too much on one gun. Sadly, grenades arent as exciting as youd probably like 
 them to be. The throwing physics looks very odd, and the explosions are lackluster, but thats 
 due to the extremely dated engine.
  
  SpecForce looks like the same game we saw two years ago in Chrome, with only a few minor tweaks 
 here and there. Terrain textures are bland and repetitive, and the same goes for the buildings. 
 Youll realize this after you walk into the third of many enemy bunkers and realize its the same 
 layout of computer screens and chairs all over again. To ultimately realize the horror of the graphics, 
 you need only look at the effects for the games electricity, which look less like energy and more 
 like turquoise snakes writhing in pain around the floor. After seeing the graphics in action, I 
 feel their pain.
  
  The sound isnt much better. The main character makes you think of a novel on tape, and even that 
 may be an insult to recorded novels. Theres absolutely no emotion in the voice at all. Supporting 
 characters fair a little better and actually get excited and express advanced emotions like fear 
 and frustration. Sound effects are alright, with the exception of the shotgun. Youll see the pumping 
 animation a good 2-3 seconds before you actually hear it.
  
  SpecForce does feature a multiplayer, but with so much thats already on the market theres really 
 no reason to check it out. When we tried, we found six servers with a grand total of two players. 
 Apparently those two guys didnt get the memo.
  
  SpecForce isnt a terrible game, but it isnt terribly good either. Its a competent shooter, but 
 the absence of everything that made its predecessor interesting is mysteriously gone. The graphics 
 are virtually the same and the gameplay has been taken down a notch. The two years it took for 
 Techland to release this game is about 18 months too long. Hardcore shooter and sci-fi fans may 
 find something interesting here, but it really cant compete with the rest of the market.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: blitsie
Rating: 7.8
Date: Feb 6, 2006 8:08 am PT
Review:  even if it is bad it is worth it gamplay is great a few of the same stuff but i like the graphics 
 and you will to this game is really great but it really grows on you
  very fun title frustrating at times but it is good i think buy it
  
  okay the story is well 
 save the world!
  yes he is back Bolt Logan ladies and gentlemen, Logan he is cooller than ever not too cool but 
 he is nice with the same bad personality
  
  lots of guns will keep you busy so get it or rent it, I say rent it
  but if you want it forever 
 wait for discount
  if you are south african not discount for you R300 or R500 and it will stay like that for south 
 africa
  so get it
  
  NOW!!!!!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gamingprincess
Rating: 7
Date: Jan 15, 2006 5:42 pm PT
Review:  just finished chrome and really enjoyed it. thats why i bough specforces. i am really enjoying 
 it. especially the fly-driving i hit this one tree over and over but still like it. i was playing 
 starship troopers which got out of hand with the over running of bugs. i like a game that they 
 give you at least a fighting chance. i would recommend this one to anyone who likes space savior 
 mission games. its an older game but the specis are good and the voices clear and challenging.... 
 hopefully another one will come out. the only thing that confuses me is in Chrome which is first 
 i killed pointer and he is back for two. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jedo
Rating: 7.6
Date: Jan 15, 2006 5:35 pm PT
Review:  INTRO
  
  Its been a while since Chrome came out. If the reader is going, Who? Im not surprised. Not 
 many people it seems have noticed this shy thing standing in the corner. It wasnt completely undeserved 
 as it had several serious problems with the gameplay. Now its son is out, and the apple hasnt 
 fallen far from the tree, as Chrome SpecForce seems to be troubled by the same problems. Nevertheless, 
 theres a lot in SpecForce to talk about. 
  
  GAMEPLAY
  
  You play as Logan (anyone gets a flashback about Syphon Filter?) , a new operative in the Federations 
 special forces, FSB (anyone thinks about the Russian FSB?) . After a tutorial at a training camp 
 youre sent in with a partner to investigate about a corporation that is suspected to produce a 
 new and illegal aggression enhancing drug (sure, whenever something that makes you a lot better 
 comes along, they outlaw it) . Things dont go as planned for the two of you though
  
  As a member of a futuristic super force, you have several tricks up your sleeve. Optic camouflage 
 allows you to sneak around unseen, although either the problematic AI or the scripting of the game 
 ensures that some enemies are magically immune to this. Theres also a strength and speed enhancing 
 mode, and the names speak for themselves. Finally, theres a mode that slows down time. This is 
 especially useful when sniping at several unsuspecting foes. All of the modes are temporary but 
 powered by rechargeable batteries.
  
  A sufficiently large arsenal is available to your disposal. You will be forced to use each type 
 of weapon during the main campaign since the locations you will visit vary from huge open spaces 
 to claustrophobic corridors, and your enemies vary from people to jet fighters.
  
  Different machines are available for you to drive and fight around in. They range from something 
 that resembles a bike to walkers (like in Mechwarrior) to stationary cannons. Most of these machines 
 are really well looking, and by that I dont mean the graphics but the construction. They look 
 like something that could actually work if it was real.
  
  Theres a standard shooter game set of things to do in SpecForce: chases, sneaking around (if you 
 choose to) , sniping and close combat. The events are well scripted and flow well into one another. 
 Missions include planting explosives, hacking into computers, assassination, ambushing enemies 
 and generally getting from one place to another, killing everything on the way. Sounds like tasks 
 performed in tactical shooters, dont they? Do not be fooled however, SpecForce is NOT what they 
 call a tactical shooter. You are in a team sometimes, but you are following rather than leading, 
 and the action is all about shooting and shooting and shooting some more, trying to penetrate the 
 thick enemy armor. 
  
  Theres a little bit of puzzling in the game. Hacking into computer consoles to achieve different 
 effects is done by playing an infamous game found widely on the internet. Its about turning over 
 pictures one by one and remembering which of them are identical. This is rather weird to use it 
 here but it actually works. As the game progresses, the puzzle gets more complicated, although 
 still pretty easy to solve. Developers shouldve gone further in this.
  
  The first major downside in the gameplay is the enemys AI. The enemy must be on some really magic 
 drug if he is able to hit you with the first shot from 500 meters away, the very moment any part 
 of your body appears on his horizon for the first time. Jumping, going stealthy or running fast 
 has no use. You WILL be shot many times in the game, and though it doesnt at all have to mean 
 death, it can still get pretty annoying depending on ones playing style. Its especially annoying 
 because damage is indicated by a loud sound and the screen going red. It almost starts hurting 
 in real-life after a while. Another weird thing was happening when you shoot someone in the stealth 
 mode, and all of his allies nearby seem to be completely oblivious to the fact that there he lies 
 in a splatter of blood. These problems were present back in the first Chrome and Im negatively 
 surprised to see that the mistakes werent corrected. 
  
  Theres another, much graver sin within SpecForces gameplay: its inexcusably short. The game 
 can be played out in 1 day and thats a Guinness book record for me. Making enemies very bullet-resistant 
 is not an answer to making a game longer, and even so its still too short. The game is not expensive, 
 yes, but even for this amount of money one expects a longer game. To all of that add a multi-player 
 mode where only about 3 servers can be seen with no one on them. The short single campaign is the 
 games main downfall. The lack of attention results in an empty multi-player which results in even 
 less play-time and in the further reduced value of the game. Theres a possibility for custom missions 
 if you can make them. Theres a mission editor but its confusing and I couldnt go anywhere with 
 it. I also doubt that anyone will make and upload a map on-line with such a poor popularity of 
 the game.
  
  SOUND
  
  Voices are generally well done, although some of the text could be better. Here and there I heard 
 some simplistic lines that you might approve in a really cheap action movie but not here. 
  
  There are proper generic sounds of animals and wind that create quite a mood for the traveler 
 in some of the games massive environments, but some sounds are missing completely like, for example, 
 footsteps when crawling. Im sure you make SOME noise when sneaking through the bushes (even if 
 you are a super soldier) . Music consists of techno-orchestral compositions and is well chosen for 
 the game.
  
  VISUALS
  
  Visuals are a controversial thing to talk about. Theres an old metal-shine effect and theres 
 some complex Doom3-like shadowing on stones and trees, but a lot of the textures still look rather 
 outdated. Then again, some of the environment looks detailed like the inner walls and the worn 
 down weapons. 
  
  The game does succeed to be very atmospheric in some places. Now you are crawling through a dense 
 forest with gigantic trees, and another time you are making your way on a small ledge surrounded 
 by steep cliffs. The levels are crawling with vegetation. It doesnt all look perfect but theres 
 a lot of it, its varied and is moving in the wind. All of it is complimented by a really long 
 view distance. Sun isnt perfect but has the blinding effect. The sky at some point looked bad 
 with low resolution clouds, but the clouds were varied and also moving at different rates. It's 
 like all things in Chrome SpecForce look both bad and good
  
  A thing about cut-scenes: there practically aren't any. In my memory theres only one small cut-scene 
 at the end of the game. Cut-scenes arent really necessary in any game, but many of us will go 
 huh? at this point. And indeed it couldve been used to help the storyline a lot and maybe even 
 fill the game's time somewhat.
  
  THE VERDICT
  
  Its hard to give Chrome SpecForce a verdict. If you can overcome the feeling sorry for the developers, 
 due to the low attention to their game, youre left with a rather controversial game. Problematic 
 enough when it comes to playing length and the enemy AI to spoil the gameplay, its still a worthy 
 shooter and at least deserves to be recognized if not liked. Maybe the developers should go back 
 to their computers, finish the game by adding a better AI, cut-scenes and more levels and then 
 spend at least some cash for advertisement and server support. Then, release a game that is $45 
 instead of the current $29, but has a lot to show for it. 
  
  MOST RELATED GAMES:
  
  The game resides somewhere between Vietcong, Battlefield series and Far Cry 
  
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
