-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Chrome
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/action/chrome/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Oct 31, 2003
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7.2
Critic Score: 6.9, 37 Review (s)
User Score: 7.4, 458 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Strategy First
Developer: Techland
Genre: Sci-Fi First-Person...
Date:     Oct 28, 2003
ESRB: Mature

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Chrome could have been an excellent shooter if it wasn't held back by some noticeable problems. 
 

  This year was supposed to be filled with sci-fi-themed first-person shooters. But now that titles 
 like Doom 3 and Half-Life 2 have slipped to 2004, similarly themed shooters with less name recognition 
 now have a better chance to gain an audience. Chrome is such a game, and it comes as something 
 of a surprise from publisher Strategy First, a company that you wouldn't expect to release this 
 style of game. All that aside, Chrome could have been an excellent shooter if it wasn't held back 
 by some noticeable problems. It has an interesting premise, even if it isn't entirely original, 
 and most of the game can be fun to play. Unfortunately, it won't pose much of a challenge due to 
 deficiencies in the artificial intelligence, and there isn't too much replay value to be found 
 in the game either.         Bolt Logan finds himself in the middle of a struggle he really doesn't 
 belong in.     

  Chrome takes place in the 22nd century. You play as Bolt Logan, a mercenary in an outer space dominated 
 by a few large corporations looking to mine "chrome." You never really find out what chrome is, 
 what it's used for, and why it's so valuable. You never even really find out anything about the 
 world you live in, either. Who governs the system? Where are these corporations based? You only 
 get a little background about Logan in the manual. Still, you can easily follow the game's story 
 because none of these questions are terribly important, and the plot of the game is actually quite 
 good. The game begins with Logan and his partner, who are on a mission. Logan is promptly betrayed 
 and framed by his fellow mercenary, thus setting the stage for a perfect revenge story. Or so you 
 would think. Logan isn't a superhero or someone who has a lot of connections. He's an average joe 
 and does the most sensible thing when caught in a life-threatening situation: he flees. This is 
 what truly sets the stage. Chrome is a game with somewhat believable characters and environments. 

  Logan begins a new partnership with a woman named Carrie, whom he meets in the first mission, and 
 begins accepting new missions from a small mining company called SPACON. Your first few missions 
 will have you performing simple tasks, like recovering stolen equipment and rescuing hostages. 
 Logan is a businessman who accepts missions after payment is discussed and never lets emotions 
 get in his way. After you save a colony from bandits, things get messy for Logan, however. The 
 two major corporations, CoreTech and Zetrox, will throw Logan into several plot twists before the 
 game's ending. Your character changes disposition, as well, when he crosses paths with his former 
 colleague and lets revenge cloud his judgment.  

  The story is pretty good, though you may be able to see some of the plot twists coming. Cutscenes 
 progress the story before and after each mission, and the voice work is done quite well. You don't 
 have control of which missions you pick or how your character develops, but, rest assured, the 
 game doesn't make you go from being a mercenary to a goody-two-shoes savior. Ultimately,  you  
 get to make such a choice.  

  However, in Chrome you aren't going to get anywhere with just words, and what kind of mercenary 
 wouldn't be adept at using weapons? Chrome has a fair selection of weapons to choose from. There 
 are pistols, submachine guns, heavy rifles, and even a rocket launcher. As mentioned, Logan isn't 
 a superhero, so he can only carry a limited number of weapons, dictated by his inventory space. 
 You can carry a pistol, a shotgun, and a submachine gun quite easily, but there's no way you'll 
 be able to take more than a pistol and rocket launcher. That's because your accessories take up 
 inventory space, too, so you'll be limited in the amount of ammo, the number of health kits, and 
 the number of various other items you can carry.  

  There are certain situations where you'll need to use something specific, like the rocket launcher, 
 but you can use any of the weapons you prefer throughout the rest of the game. You can fire a weapon 
 normally, or you can press the right mouse button to look down the weapon's sights and fire more 
 accurately (or you can use the scope with sniper rifles) . You choose your weapon loadout prior 
 to each mission, with the heavier weapons becoming unlocked as the game progresses. You may just 
 find yourself only equipping the pistol and sniper rifle, though. Most of the weapons are inaccurate 
 at long ranges, so you'll just sit there firing until a few lucky shots drop the enemy. Wouldn't 
 it be easier just to use a sniper rifle and make a quick headshot? If you're worried about enemies 
 getting close, you can just use the pistol at shorter ranges. It may not have high stopping power, 
 but it has a fast rate of fire and is an accurate weapon. However, you won't be limited by your 
 choice during a mission because you can scavenge enemy bodies for weapons, ammo, and health kits. 

          You can scavenge bodies and cabinets for weapons and ammo.     

  Part of what makes the game relatively easy is the fact that enemies carry so much stuff. You hardly 
 ever have to worry about ammo supplies because you can pick up more from enemies you've killed. 
 You especially never have to worry about running out of health kits because you'll find a lot of 
 them. The health kits work slowly by replenishing your health instead of giving you an instant 
 boost. The health increase occurs for quite a while, allowing you to continue healing damage should 
 you get hurt again after your health has reached maximum capacity. You can also use a few health 
 packs at once because the healing rate increases with multiple health packs. So a viable strategy 
 is to use a couple of health packs before a fight and engage multiple enemies at point-blank range, 
 if you know there are more health packs nearby.  

  The enemies aren't too challenging, either. They respond to sights and sounds just fine. In fact, 
 sneaking up behind some guards and capping them in the back of the head is quite fun. The problem 
 is that the enemies aren't too smart. If you shoot an enemy who's standing yards away from another 
 enemy, most of the time the other guy won't even notice that his friend dropped to the ground. 
 Enemies who take it upon themselves to attack you will most often run straight toward you without 
 team coordination, or they will even stand out in the open. A select few will dodge your fire and 
 seek cover, which is better, but, in a sense, it's unfortunate and frustrating since, clearly, 
 the AI could have been better overall. Perhaps if more enemies were smarter about attacking you, 
 there would have been a greater need to use a variety of weapons instead of relying on the sniper 
 rifle to plug enemies out in the open.     

  The enemy AI doesn't get too much better if you bump up the difficulty level. Your foes will become 
 much more accurate, though, so you actually will need to err on the side of caution. The very hard 
 difficulty level also takes away your proximity detector. In the other difficulties, you have a 
 detector that shows where enemies are lurking, much like the colonial marines had in the movie 
  Aliens . It sometimes makes the lower difficulties too easy, but the very hard mode can be too 
 challenging for some people -- as you might expect. So you'll have to make a tradeoff between breezing 
 through the levels or cursing every time you have to reload. The save system can be slightly frustrating 
 as well. There are four quick-save slots that automatically alternate, so you don't have to worry 
 about getting yourself stuck in a bad situation. The game doesn't automatically save your progress 
 at the beginning of each level, so, unless you manually save your progress, you can't go back to 
 an older mission if you so desire.  

          The terrains are lush and vibrant.     

  Despite all of this, the missions can be quite fun. The objectives and locations are varied, so 
 you won't become bored. There are a few vehicles you can drive, including dune buggy-like cars 
 and mechanized walkers. One of the more memorable missions has you manning the gun in a buggy as 
 you frantically try to escape from an enemy encampment. You get pinned in corners, trapped in alleys, 
 and assaulted from every direction. Another mission forces you to sneak around an enemy base by 
 using stealth and cloaking shields. There are a few boss battles mixed in with the missions, but 
 they aren't too difficult.  

  The boss battles are probably the only times you'll use most of your implants in the normal difficulty. 
 Logan has seven implants that enhance some of his abilities. For example, one will improve his 
 accuracy, while another hardens his skin. Speed is probably the only real useful ability you'll 
 use consistently because you can move through the terrain a lot faster. Implants do become more 
 useful in the very hard difficulty, but they are sometimes more gimmicky than effective.  

  Chrome certainly looks very good and runs fine on midrange machines. It is able to render beautiful 
 environments and detailed models. You'll find yourself on tropical islands, dense forests, and 
 frozen landscapes. The environments are complete with lush vegetation and bright sunlight. Actually, 
 these environments are sometimes so large that you may get bored by having to run across so much 
 terrain. The engine also has seamless transitions when you enter buildings. The building design 
 is rather interesting because, unlike most shooters, you can enter almost every room. You'll often 
 find dead ends and storage rooms if you don't read the signs above the doors, though. It seems 
 like the levels were designed around something functional, like an actual blueprint, rather than 
 around what the game designers would want you to do. There really aren't too many ambient sounds, 
 though, so the world that was meant to be lived-in still feels pretty empty. The music tracks are 
 pretty forgettable as well.  

  Chrome suffers from the same problem as other modern shooters: The more realistic games become, 
 the more noticeable their unrealistic elements tend to stick out. For example, the forests in Chrome 
 look great and really look alive. However, when you move through the dense foliage, you make the 
 same noise as when walking on grass. So if you're trying to sneak up on a guard, you won't actually 
 create sounds like rustling bushes or snapping twigs. Also, you can't interact with most of the 
 environment, which is too bad, considering the game at least looks like a believable setting.  
 

          This guard will never hear you coming, even though you're in a dense forest.     

  
 The multiplayer mode could have been really good, but it just doesn't end up being worth the bother. 
 There are several gameplay modes: deathmatch, team deathmatch, capture the flag, domination, and 
 assault. The game only ships with a few maps of each game type, and some of these are either replicas 
 of single-player missions or are very small. Even though the game has been out in Europe for a 
 while now, there are hardly any servers running. If you happen to find one, it may be the wrong 
 version number. It seems that the US release is v1.1.1.0, while Europe is stuck on 1.1.0.0, so 
 you can't even join these servers. Even if you're lucky enough to join a server, latency is most 
 likely going to be very bad. That's unfortunate, because when you do manage to join a map, you 
 get a short description that ties it into the Chrome universe. Instead of being something that 
 fleshes out the longevity of the game, Chrome's multiplayer just ends up falling flat.  

  Chrome is full of surprises, as well as some disappointments. There's a lot going on in the single-player 
 mode that merits a look, but it won't be a completely rewarding experience. The multiplayer mode 
 has a lot of promise, but it's DOA. If you're itching for a new FPS to play, then Chrome would 
 make a good addition to your collection, especially considering how every major sci-fi-themed shooter 
 that was going to be released this holiday season has been pushed back. If you can't bear the thought 
 of playing a shooter that isn't stellar, then you should pass on Chrome.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (11 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: POL_eXplosiV
Rating: 7.5
Date: Feb 21, 2009 8:59 am PT
Review:  In the era of games having graphics innovations like Crysis or FarCry 2, polish production from 
 year 2003 made by Techland - creators of Crime Cities can't be a game appreciated by younger players. 
 But Chrome in the 2003 was really good game with some innovations like implants which increase 
 strenght, aim and speed of our character. Also storyline is interesting. Main character is Bolt 
 Logan - mercenary who was betrayed by his friend, Pointer. After this Logan met Carrie and with 
 her he's working for galactic corporations. Chrome is based on Techland's own graphic engine called 
 Chrome Engine. In 2003 graphic was good. Chrome except singleplayer includes also multiplayer but 
 you won't find somebody to play throught internet. And what can you find in Chrome ? Different 
 kind of weapons based on typical known from other FPP games: tactical knife, pistol, silenced pistol, 
 sniper rifle, submachinegun, rifle and other like grenades. Ofcourse you will be able to use equipment 
 like health packs (named in game Healtex) , binoculars. If you like tactical first person shooters 
 with different kind of missions you should play Chrome, because this game could bring you many 
 hours of good, solid fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: joelthegoblin
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 8, 2008 5:19 pm PT
Review:  I have only just been interoduced to the game, but I think through the short time I have played 
 it, really good. 
  
  The graphics engine really inspires me, but our computers graphics card is junk, so we have to 
 set the graphics right down to the point where it is ugly, or I can set them right up and I only 
 get a new picture every second. Given you have an easy-ish programming language like I have (GML) , 
 you can create the gameplay quite easily and effectively, but I don't think it would be a ten minute 
 job to even create a simple tower.
  
  graphics-9.8
  
  the sounds are bit off. But the voice-acting is good. the music is okay and there is a huge range 
 of comments by the AI.
  
  sounds- 7.2
  
  The game is really fun, I like the way the Ai says stuff, 'TAKE THAT' or 'i gottem!'. the gameplay 
 lifts the overall score up. There are huge enviroments, a reasonable story so far, and good 'acting 
 like your acting' by the guy in the prolouge.
  
  gameplay-10
  
  Those are the three sections I go for in a game. I would think it deserves a solid 9. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rysing_Furi
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 25, 2006 7:58 pm PT
Review:  Unfortunately, Chrome suffers from being released after Deus Ex, Halo, and Star Wars, because it 
 pretty much steals all the best bits from them and puts it into another universe. It copies the 
 Augmentations from DX, and just makes them harder to use, while also copying the vehicle concept 
 from Halo and Star Wars. In fact, one of the vehicles could be a mutant AT-ST. The gameplay can 
 be frustrating, your mods are basically useless and clumsily implemented, gunfights can be extremely 
 irritating because even though you're shooting, more than likely you'll still be killed. Voice 
 acting is B-grade, they grabbed Jon St John and while he does a perfect duke nukem and he does 
 it so well, this game ain't duke nukem, and it just comes off being a tough guy joke. The rest 
 of the cast is sub-par though. The graphics are about the only thing going for this game, and its 
 a shame that the rest of the game crushes under its weight because this could have been a great 
 game. But unfortunately, Chrome just comes off as a copycat wannabe. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: grantcorp
Rating: 5
Date: Apr 30, 2006 1:53 pm PT
Review:  If there was ever an award for blandness or predictability Chrome would cash in big time, because 
 every tired clich you ever saw in an action game has been included. The game sees you as hard 
 chinned tough guy mercenary "Bolt Logan", betrayed by your best friend (evil looking rival mercenary 
 and Scooter look-a-like) . As soon as he's tricked you into an ambush deep inside an enemy facility, 
 a Bambi-eyed blonde running around in a catsuit appears to crave for your protection. Except standing 
 in your way in firefights she's also yapping "I'm coming" every ten meters you cover.
  
  The graphics are good looking, and the music tries hard to build tension, but fails when all the 
 voice acting is delivered without any sense of urgency, mainly being devoid of any emotion and 
 delivered in a normal tone. When you throw a grenade at the feet of an enemy soldier he merely 
 points out "Grenade", and takes one or two steps to the right to avoid directly stepping on it, 
 as if he was out foraging for mushrooms in the forest (perhaps he was just amazed that it actually 
 landed right where I had intended it to go, the throwing and bouncing algorithms could do with 
 some work) . Every bad guy also gives continuous status reports about whether his shots hit me or 
 not, even when we are the only two people present. Well, thanks for the information.
  
  All the basic sci-fi style weapons are available for collection, but you can rarely carry anymore 
 than two, as the inventory is rather cramped and uses a group of unintuitive Deus Ex style grids 
 to sort your items. The program does a poor job of sticking small items into it, just plopping 
 them at the first suitable place, leaving you to shift them around one more time to make room for 
 larger items.
  
  The controls are a bit quirky until you get used to them, and you will probably want to memorize 
 the quick load button, as you can expect to get killed a lot. Although you use the same weapons 
 as the enemy their proficiency and skill at range are unmatched.
  
  It is little niggles like these that chip away from the fun factor. Like any good 1950's car, Chrome 
 needs a lot of polish. Overall the game gets the job done, so if you really are dying to try out 
 yet another generic sci-fi shooter give it a go, otherwise there are plenty of better games around, 
 Red Faction being the most obvious competitor. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Leonard28
Rating: 7.3
Date: Jan 29, 2006 3:29 am PT
Review:  This game had potential to make it to the top but in the end it didn't. The great graphics are 
 a huge eye catcher and one of the best things about this game.
  The levels are open and really big witch is cool to, you can use loads of different tactics to 
 get to accomplish your goals. The sound effects are good as well. But the major part of a game, 
 the gameplay, is very dissappointing, this game just doesn't feel like a good shooter should feel 
 like.
  The storyline is good but doesn't save the game, the cyber implants are a real dissappointment 
 as you can only use them for a short time, you don't actually need them and the don't work good 
 enough.
  The multiplayer is crap and you shouldn't even try it. My conclusion, this game leans on the enormous 
 outside levels and the graphics, but since the gameplay just isn't good enough the game isn't really 
 worth it. If you can buy this game for a budgetprice I would buy it because of the good things, 
 for the full price you can get games that are much better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rmj
Rating: 8.8
Date: Oct 26, 2005 7:55 pm PT
Review:  with very good graphics for when it was released and just huge enviroments! this turned out to 
 be a very good game. There are many ways to complete your objectives ,some of the missions are 
 extremely difficult !The AI if you are spotted will hunt u down relentlessly ,stealth is a very 
 good idea in most enviroments! I have played this game through many times it has much replay value 
 becuase of the vast sizes of the missions! and being able to complete them in so many different 
 ways !
  The AI snipers are the most deadly because u never know where they are and they have such a long 
 range weapon! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AngelsBeast
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jul 4, 2004 10:00 am PT
Review:  Gameplay:
  I have a P4 2.8GHz, with 1mb ram and a 128mb NVIDIA graphics card. This game hardly ever lagged 
 at all on me and when it id it was barley noticeable. The controls for the vehicles could have 
 been improved a little, but other than that the gameplay was great.
  
  Graphics:
  The graphics and level of detail could have improved a little. Everything looks kind of bland. 
 The grass and trees were the best part of the graphics but the bad part was that your enemies could 
 hide in the grass but you couldnt. I tried sneaking up on enemies a few times and got shoot every 
 time. But the graphics do not take away from the overall game, and you probably wont even notice 
 them while playing.
  
  Sound:
  The ambient sounds were probably done better than anything else, I thing that the ambient sounds 
 were done really good. The weapons sound really weak, and the vehicles sound real strange except 
 for the mechs the mechs were done nicely I think as far as the sound category. The voices werent 
 bad either, in fact I think there were done really well.
  
  Summary:
  Defiantly worth the money. I loved this game. It was on of the best FPS I have played in a while. 
 If you took the time to read this than you should defiantly go pick a copy up. I would be surprised 
 if you were disappointed in it.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: doctor_kaz
Rating: 8.3
Date: Mar 22, 2004 1:27 pm PT
Review:  This is a great game that nobody played. Chrome is not flawless, but its just plain fun. There 
 might be some pieces missing, but the most important stuff is done right.
  
  Chrome is a first-person shooter with a couple of important extra features. These features dont 
 sound like much until you actually get to play through them. You play as a mercenary/bounty hunter 
 who travels across the galaxy rescuing hostages, recovering stolen equipment, and then getting 
 in the middle of an intergalactic corporate struggle. The locales that you visit are not only beautiful, 
 but they are huge and wide open. I cant tell you how much I love those big open areas. You can 
 easily spend an hour and a half or more on each mission, thanks to all the time that you spend 
 creeping around in the forest, sneaking up on guard patrols or avoiding them altogether. Sometimes 
 you find a sniper tower that you can use to snipe guys from half a mile away. The levels are very 
 nonlinear and rarely seem like they are contrived or built just for you. Instead, it feels like 
 you are actually infiltrating realistic bases and installations. Its also great being able to 
 play for an hour without seeing a loading screen. There are a lot of indoor areas too, but they 
 arent as much fun to play in as the outdoor areas.
  
  Stealth ends up playing a big part in this game, and it ends up being surprisingly good. Even the 
 pure stealth levels, which I normally hate in a non-stealth action game, are good. The outdoor 
 areas have lots of trees and rocks to hide behind, and with the use of your binoculars or radar, 
 you can avoid enemy patrols or pop them in the back of the head when you catch them by surprise. 
 Once again, the big open areas are what allow you to do this. 
  
  The weapons have a realistic feel to them. Automatic weapons can only be fired in bursts, since 
 the kick to them will make them too inaccurate after a few bullets. Firefights can be pretty tough 
 if you are in the view of more than a couple of enemies. Thats why cleverly taking on one at a 
 time is necessary. Thats also where your cybernetic implants become a crucial part of the game.
 
  
  Chrome is not the first game to throw in special powers as a twist to the shooter aspect, but it 
 succeeds where many others fail. They end up working like the force powers in the Jedi Knight games. 
 All seven of your implants are useful, and they are well-balanced enough so that they dont overpower 
 you and make the game too easy. This is mostly due to your nervous system getting overloaded if 
 you use them for too long. If you have three implants turned on, then you can only keep them on 
 for a few seconds at a time. They all seem well thought out, instead of things that were just thrown 
 in because they sounded kinda neat. 
  
  The core gameplay is solid, so a lot of the other things that are good are bonuses. One of them 
 is the storyline, which is a nice surprise (in spite of the bad voice acting) . Another is the successfully 
 implementation of rag-doll physics. This seems to be hit-and-miss in shooters lately, but here 
 its great. Enemies seem to respond realistically, depending upon what weapon you shoot them with. 
 A shotgun blast to the face produces a much more drastic rag-doll effect than a silenced pistol 
 shot to the head. Bodies dont dissolve away and disappear like they do in other shooters, and 
 the bullet holes seem to hang around for a while. One great thing about Chrome is that in an era 
 where action games seem to always end after 8 or 10 hours, it lasts more like 15-20.
  
  As I mentioned before, Chrome certainly has flaws. One of them is the enemy AI. Its not bad but 
 its unsophisticated. Enemies are too easy to kill with grenades, and they generally wont use 
 any advanced tactics to flush you out of hiding places. The worst part of the AI is when you throw 
 a grenade and the guy yells grenade!, and then just stands there like an idiot until the grenade 
 blows him across the screen. This ends up being the biggest problem in the indoor areas, since 
 enemies kind of just stand there and wont help out their comrades when you are killing them in 
 the next room. The music for the game isn't very good either, and the voice acting can be really 
 bad at times.
  
  Chrome has so many good parts that its easy to look past its bad parts. This is a very unique 
 and high-quality shooter in its own right.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: BrGabriel
Rating: 3.2
Date: Jan 18, 2004 2:29 am PT
Review:  Bought this game, have tried to play it. Dear God is it awful. I really wonder if whoever reviewed 
 it actually played the bloody thing.
  
  First point - and one that is increasingly made about PC games - when are developers and publishers 
 going to stoip using the purchasers of their games to beta test the damn things? This really is 
 an increasingly unpleasant trend - no doubt driven by the marketing monkeys in the publishers rather 
 than the QA guys. And doesn't anyone find it a little suspicious just how quickly these patches 
 are now available? Almost like they knew it was poorly QAed crap when they distributed it but thought 
 that they'd get the revenue stream going before they really did anything about it.
  
  Chrome is no exception - its bugged and the patch only fixes some of the issues - on my competely 
 standard machine the worst of the unfixed bugs is that it crashes almost every time I try and save 
 it. This bug was reported on the Chrome forums in October - before the patch was issued - yet it 
 doesn't fix it and their tech support don't have an immediate solution either.
  
  Second point - if the increasing trend for eastern european developers continues - could they please 
 get someone who speaks english as a first language to work on the cut scenes - better someone who 
 hasn't learnt their english from b-movies? The cut scenes on this game use pigeon english and dialogue 
 that is so hackneyed that it defies description. And (if I was really that bothered about this 
 sort of thing) its hideously sexist steroetypes are also more at home in a 1950s B movie.
  
  Third point - it would be nice if the game actually did something original - as it is it feels 
 like a poor copy (again perhaps a reflection of its eastern european origins) of other games but 
 badly, cheaply executed. Graphics are OK (although the faces of main characters look lumpy and 
 rather strange) but who cares if the game does nothing new or, more to the point, if ones ability 
 to interact with the graphics is almost non-existent. Further, again as reported elsewhere, the 
 sound is truly dreadful - aside from weapons fire that sounds as if its played through thick layers 
 of cotton wool there appears to be no difference between walking on grass and pushing through undergrowth 
 - as I said no point to good looking graphics if they do nothing for immersion. Whatever happened 
 to storyline and plot - this game really doesn't have much of either.
  
  Really dreadful. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: koolham
Rating: 9.9
Date: Dec 18, 2003 12:25 am PT
Review:  I have to agree with the fact that I think Chrome is a compilation of all the best features a first 
 person shooter should have, but somehow it didnt get all the attention it deserved. If I hadnt 
 of played the demo, I would have easily overlooked this great game.
  
  The game play is straight-forward and easy to follow, you are given objectives that are clearly 
 explained and displayed on a map. Furthermore, you have the freedom to go about anywhere in a map 
 at a given time, sometimes doing missions in a non-linear fashion. The ability to take all the 
 extra ammo and health packs, etc. off of the dead corpses of enemies is not only realistic but 
 adds a different element of game play. Youll find it useful to swap different types of guns and 
 their ammo for varying situations or personal preference and the plethora of health packs may make 
 the game seam easy but with the difficulty set high you will need them. Also, the implants in the 
 game add a great style to the game because its like being a temporary super hero, you only have 
 a certain amount of neuro energy to sustain any one or more nano-implants at a time, providing 
 a new type of strategy not really seen in first person shooters. A very impressive feature of the 
 game is its ability to incorporate all of its features throughout the game. You use all the types 
 of vehicles and will pretty much use some sort of combination of your nano-implants to get through 
 the missions, its not as much as a gimmick as you would think. For example the eye implant will 
 allow you to zoom in further than your gun would normally allow, so you can pick off enemies from 
 farther away, essentially sniping them with normal range weapons. Personally I can connect with 
 this game on the same level as Halo, but this game still distinguishes itself from other games 
 in its genre. As for the story, its good, and has all the attention it needs. Its not as awe-inspiring 
 as Halo, but its believable and substantially immersive.
  
  The graphics alone make me want to play this game through, just to see the different environments 
 that are present. Techland did a superb job with creating a new, impressive game engine, the lush, 
 high polygon count the result of it. Environments are lifelike and can be compared on the level 
 of Unreal Tournament 2003 and Unreal IIs graphics. The player models specifically are high resolution 
 and beautifully sculpted. Reflections of light and environment are portrayed realistically, making 
 metal look like metal and so on. I could go on about the graphics all day but well just leave 
 it with fact that they are superb.
  
  The sound is solid, but not the most noticeable feature of Chrome. The music is dynamic, changing 
 as you engage in different activities, a lot of times there will be none too but it is appropriate. 
 Everything sounds realistic and wont make you think twice about it.
  
  The replay value is good, you probably wont mind playing through this game more than one time 
 for they are so varying and fun. The multiplayer has great potential, but I have yet to find a 
 decent amount of servers to play on, perhaps instead of using a proprietary internet master server, 
 it should have just incorporated GameSpy into it, but needless to say LAN games are a blast and 
 you will have lots of fun with it.
  
  Overall I think Chrome is a sleeper hit. We need to see more games like this, but hopefully these 
 games will get the advertising it needs. Techland seems like a small company I guess but it sure 
 did make a damn nice game and Im looking forward to their next endeavors. As for the rest of you 
 who are considering this game, I think the demo speaks for itself. Play it and you will become 
 addicted. It plays as good as it looks and will not disappoint. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Blue_Tomato
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 1, 2003 3:33 am PT
Review:  I was really surprised to see a low score for this game here in Gamespot, they usually reflect 
 my opinion quite well, but not this time by far, and honestly it did not seem like the reviewer 
 played much of the game from the way it was written. 
  
  Chrome is the most enjoyable first person shooter I played in a very long time!
  
  The graphics 
 is excellent, and I especially enjoyed the dense vegetation that really gives you an unique feeling 
 of being in a real world. You have to consider this vegetation in combat too, as grass and bushes 
 can hide the enemy, and it is the first time I have seen this.
  
  The game offers full freedom to move around and use any tacticts you want. I really enjoyed the 
 full freedom of being outdoors for the most part, instead of inside some hallways like in too many 
 shooters. And there's a wide range of cool features like the enhanced cyber add-ons your character 
 can utilize to make him run faster, see better etc. 
  
  I especially liked the enhancement that allows you to see people through walls. It is in fact quite 
 awesome, and adds a lot ot the tactical part of the game. Another cool upgrade is the adrenaline 
 injector, which simply slows down the time so you can react faster, like Bullet Time in Max Payne.
 
  
  I also enjoyed the long range of things you can equip in the game. An abandoned enemy railgun can 
 be used by you for example, and there are also many vehicles you can enter and drive. The coolest 
 is the Mech robot, which really makes your enemy suffer.
  
  The missions are varied, and if played at the right difficulty level the balance is just right. 
 You have to revise your tactics all the time, using many weapons. Ususually I find myself using 
 only a small number of favorite weapons in such a game, but here all the various weapons has very 
 specific advantages that makes you want to use them all.
  
  I can highly recommend this game!
  
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
