-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Circle of Blood
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/adventure/circleofblood/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Oct  3, 1996
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 9.2
Critic Score: 8.4, 5 Review (s)
User Score: 9.0, 503 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Virgin Interactive
Developer: Revolution Soft.
Genre: Adventure
Date:     Sep 30, 1996 &raquo;  

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Beautifully illustrated, hand-painted graphics combined with an entertainingly twisted plot makes 
 this an eye-catching adventure to savor. 

 If a picture is worth a thousand words then this review would have to be a novel to do true justice 
 to Virgin Interactive's new adventure, Circle of Blood. Beautifully illustrated, hand-painted graphics 
 combined with an entertainingly twisted plot makes this an eye-catching adventure to savor. However, 
 as you move from city to city taking in the spectacular landscape, be careful. You might forget 
 that you're on a mission and not a vacation.  

 As George Stobbart, an American vacationing abroad, you are literally blown into this adventure 
 when the Paris caf&amp; eacute; where you're sitting sipping a cappuccino is ripped to shreds by 
 a bomb. One dead body and a suspicious clown later, the vacation is transformed into a quest to 
 uncover the party responsible for the blast. However, George quickly discovers that there's more 
 to the crime than merely someone's distaste for Parisian coffee.   

 While most of this epic (which spans five countries, involves a huge cast of characters, and is 
 divided into 11 sequences) is the result of highly creative storytelling, the plot does contain 
 some elements of fact. The Knights Templar, the ancient society George stumbles across as he attempts 
 to solve the caf&amp; eacute; bombing, actually existed in the 11th century. But relatively little 
 is known about this chivalrous group of knights who mysteriously disappeared sometime after the 
 14th century. In this case, fact is definitely stranger than fiction, and adds spice to an already 
 entertaining adventure.  

 Put simply, Circle of Blood is a visual treat. Every scene - from the interior of the hospital to 
 the streets of Syria - is filled with rich, lush, illustrative detail that rivals any animated 
 feature film. Even the sewers are picturesque. Combined with appropriate sound effects (like the 
 Irish tunes playing in the pub and danger music when George picks a deadly path) , this adventure 
 is truly a work of art.  

 But Circle of Blood is not just a group of pretty moving pictures. Although at its core the game 
 is a standard inventory-based adventure, progressing through it will take quite a bit of imagination 
 and brain power. Solutions to the puzzles are not immediately obvious, but with careful scrutiny 
 of each scene (pass the cursor over every inch of the screen) and creative use of the inventory 
 items, they are logically solvable. More importantly, each resolution seems to bring you closer 
 to everything but the truth until fairly far into the game. The rapidly moving storyline is as 
 detailed as the graphics, and even minor characters who provide only smalls clue or details are 
 well-developed and have more to say if encouraged. You'll find most have quite an entertaining 
 history, from the American tourists in Syria to the janitor with his faithful floor cleaner, "Mr. 
 Shiny," in Paris. Some provide a pleasant diversion as you try to figure out what to do with interesting 
 items like the pressure gauge or the plaster of Paris.   

 Without question, Circle of Blood is an adventure of epic proportions and ranks as one of the most 
 intriguing games to roll out this year. Its only drawback is that the graphics might be too real. 
 After playing the game, you might find yourself wanting to pack your bags and take in the European 
 sights first-hand. But if you're lacking for travel funds and must stay home and play computer 
 games, Circle of Blood definitely won't disappoint you.    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (17 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: SuperMooseman
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 9, 2009 7:59 am PT
Review:  Broken Sword: The Shadow of the Templars (known as Circle of Blood in the United States) is a 1996 
 point-and-click adventure game that was developed by English-based Revolution Software. The game 
 will take you literally across the world, and follows a vast variety of deep characters with an 
 ever-expanding plot. All of this, and more, adds up to produce an amazing game that cannot be missed.
 
  
  You play as George Stobbart, a patent lawyer by profession, but a likeable, cheery American by 
 nature. After witnessing a clown blowing up a small Paris bistro and killing a man, George sets 
 out to track down the circus terrorist, but he soon finds out that there is much more than meets 
 the eye. The bomb turns out to be a small part in a deep, ancient history of the Knights Templar 
 and George can't help but get to the bottom of it all, and stop whatever evil the reformed group 
 are planning.
  
  George soon meets Inspector Rosso and his colleague inside the cafe, which signifys only the beginning 
 of a vast array of unique characters. Ranging from the evil Syrian assassin Khan to the smooth-talking 
 Nico Collard, everyone has a different personality and a voice to match. Since the game sees you 
 flying to locations such as Scotland and Syria, good voice acting is a requirement, and luckily 
 Broken Sword matches it, then exceeds it for good luck. Emotion runs through every single line 
 spoken, and it really emerges you in the experience. As an added touch, the voices even echo when 
 in large locations such as churches.
  
  After taking a quick glance at the screenshots, you would be easily mistaken for thinking that 
 this is a childish game. What you get, however, is something completely different. The vibrant, 
 smooth visuals hide a serious touch to the game, so don't be surprised when you walk into the cafe 
 and see Plantard's dead body laying on the floor. However, jokes are sprinkled throughout the game 
 to add comic relief, and the story never feels depressing, only interesting. The beautiful scenery 
 bring real life to the game, and the animated cutscenes help spice things up throughout -- even 
 the sewer looks nice! A huge high five to the art team of the game, they've done a stellar job.
 
  
  Music is used brilliantly throughout, whether it is to signify that something important is about 
 to happen, or that George should be wary about continuing on his current path. Violin playing accompanies 
 the Irish pub, and a fast-paced action track goes along side a train climb towards the end of the 
 game. The only downside to the audio is that sometimes it is not used at all, and this instantly 
 gives a sense of emptiness to the scene and takes you away from the moment for a second. Sound 
 effects are also used sparingly, and a few more 'clicks' or 'taps' would have been welcome.
  
  As mentioned earlier, Shadow of the Templars is a point-and-click game. If you're unaware, 
 it's the most simplistic and most complex types of gameplay out there. All with a single click 
 George can either talk to people, pick up objects, look at them or use them in whatever way. It 
 is up to the player to figure out what they have to do to progress, with subtle hints coming from 
 the characters. The puzzles are challenging, although they do not get frustrating. There is always 
 a straightforward solution and the satisfaction you receive when you figure it out cannot be beat 
 in any other genre.
  
  A superb game in every single way, and one that any adventure lover cannot miss out on. The intricate 
 plot and characters, mixed with the great puzzles and musical score just make Broken Sword: The 
 Shadow of the Templars an unbeatable game and a true masterpiece. Take your time with it, soak 
 up the stunning art and enjoy the twist that meets you at the end. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ShinGnosis
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 5, 2009 6:37 am PT
Review:  I'm really amazed with this game, it was a long time since I first played it but even now, more 
 than ten years after it was first released, I don't think it feels especially dated.
  
  It's something to do with the effortlessly moving hand painted graphics that makes it feel like 
 if you're playing a classic Walt Disney comic. Only - of course - that the story is more akin to 
 Indiana Jones or Tin Tin.
  
  It was an absolutely amazing game when it was first released but now, considering how timeless 
 it's proven to be, it truly has to be considered an all time masterpiece.
  
  If you like adventure games in any way kind shape or form this should be around the top of your 
 "to-play-list". Matched only by other AAA adventure games such as The Longest Journey, Syberia, 
 Monkey Island 3 or Grim Fandango. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pokolvrolok
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 19, 2008 12:50 pm PT
Review:  This game relies entirely on the story. A bad storyline with this type of game means a bad game!
 
  Well you will be happy to hear that the storyline is fantastic. And if you like Point and Click 
 games, Broken Sword 1 will take you to heaven and back in an eventful journey filled with action, 
 mystery and adventure all combined in one!
  I am not about to tell you the storyline but am going to tell you one thing:
  If you are patient 
 and don't mind playing an old very pixellated game you will LOVE BS.
  
  There is lots of puzzles and twists in the game which will keep you sat at your computer for hours 
 and hours. 
  
  I have completed the game no fewer than 8 times and yet each time it still never fails to baffle 
 , shock and excite me. 
  
  Everything from the creepy plot to the fantastic score will give you a reason to keep playing broken 
 sword. 
  
  Looking for a game with a good storyline... Look no further.
  BROKEN SWORD: SHADOW OF THE TEMPLARS!
  (also known as circle of blood or something :S)
  
 
  And let me tell you, i am not into these types of games at all but this one game gives the genre 
 a good name. : ) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mistablair
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 15, 2007 2:44 pm PT
Review:  I'm keeping this very brief. I'm only writing about this game because I feel it's under appreciated 
 despite it's very high score. 
  
  This a game for you if you're interested in The Davinci Code, the Knights Templars, Europe or are 
 a new "casual" gamer sucked into gaming by the DS or Wii. The puzzles are clever, the art is beautiful, 
 but the main reason that you will come back is for the story. 
  
  It's probably very cheap to get, and even 11 years after it's release it's still fun to play. The 
 graphics are all painted I believe so they don't really look bad, just the animations seem dated. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PAJ89
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 19, 2007 10:01 am PT
Review:  Imagine spending a relaxing afternoon at a Paris caf&eacute;, sipping away at your coffee as you 
 sit outside, sun shining over you. Without warning, a deafening sound pierces your ears and youre 
 thrown from your seat. A bomb has just exploded inside the caf&eacute;, no more than a couple of 
 meters away from where youre sitting. For George Stobbart, an American lawyer enjoying a vacation 
 in Europes fashion capital, this is reality.
  
  Circle of Blood (aka. Broken Sword: The Shadow of the Templars) begins with Georges near-death 
 experience, and develops into an engaging adventure that sees him and his companion, French journalist 
 Nico Collard, attempting to foil an ancient cults plan to revive a deadly power. Along the way, 
 youll visit exotic locales and meet a cast of weird and wonderful characters.
  
  This is an old-skool adventure game, so all you really need is the mouse. By clicking on points 
 of interest in the environment, you can get George to move there and inspect something, talk to 
 someone, etc. Youll also pick up items that can be used or traded to make progress; again, these 
 are selected and used with a couple of mouse clicks. It may be primitive, but it works just fine 
 and is easy to pick up.
  
  It may be a game, but Circle of Blood feels like an interactive novel. There is a linear story 
 progression, but its very focused and interesting; youll want to keep playing until you finish 
 the story. Part of this compelling quality is provided by the fantastic characters and their voice 
 actors. George and Nico play well off of each other, and the two have some fantastic lines, amplified 
 by the excellent voice-acting. The lesser characters are just as great though, and add tons of 
 personality to the game. These include Andre Lobineau; a snobby historian fighting for Nicos affection, 
 Flap &amp; Guido; a bumbling double-act of petty criminals who try to impede you, and the killer 
 clown; the one who bombed the caf&eacute; during the games beginning.
  
  Arguably the most defining feature of the game is its visual flair; you dont often see games 
 like this nowadays. Everything, from the character models to the environments, is beautifully hand-drawn, 
 giving Circle of Blood a look that no number of polygons can give you. George and Nico will visit 
 Ireland, Spain and Syria to name a few, and each locale has its own unique look. The visuals enhance 
 the effect of the story, and the game is definitely more memorable because of this.
  
  Few games age well, but Circle of Blood is a fantastic example of the exception to the rule. It 
 may have been released way back in 1996, but its well worth a go even today. Check those PC bargain 
 bins because Circle of Blood is a real gem. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Moti_Biran
Rating: 7.4
Date: Jul 28, 2007 3:09 am PT
Review:  An enjoyable old school pixel hunt adventure game. The visuals of this game are still beautiful, 
 and the sound is great. The voice acting is pretty good most of the times, and the story starts 
 good, but as you progress through the game the story start to become lame and stupid. The one thing 
 that still holds in this game is the humor that can still make you laugh at times.
  
  The pixel hunting adventure games have some major flaws and Circle of Blood is no exception, the 
 back tracking, cd changing routine can be frustrating at times, and the lack of an auto save before 
 the parts you can die in, can turn this game into a frustrating experience at times, especially 
 near the end of the game, as you have to go through some lengthy dialog tree again, and again.
 
  
  But still this game is fun in most parts and is recommended to anyone who wants to experience the 
 joy of old - pixel hunting, andCircle of Blood is pixel hunting galore. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: aprillaprill
Rating: 9.9
Date: Jul 16, 2007 6:58 am PT
Review:  This game must be in my favourites list. Just love this game. Defenently the best broken sword 
 game out there.
  - great graphics
  - awesome sound effects
  - enjoiable characters
  - waiting for another broken sword game - If they are ever going to continue the story of Broken 
 Sword
  I really hope they`re gonna make a game with chraphics like this again.
  
  this is for hundred words. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: merchitO
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jul 16, 2007 11:49 pm PT
Review:  I am surprised, and quite glad, to notice from the reviews on this page that I am not alone to 
 play 10 years old PC games (my god, 10 years old games! Ain't we weiiiird!)
  
  Circle of Blood is full of humour and charm. The mystery feels authentic, the characters are amusing 
 and alive, and as a player you become much involved in the story.
  Okay, I admit the puzzles are rather easy and sometimes a bit odd. All right, the slow leisurely 
 step of the hero is sometimes enervating. But despite those archaic flaws, you will never feel 
 like giving up the game before the end, mainly because the pace at which the mystery unwinds is 
 very well timed.
  
  You like adventure games? You will be delighted at this old fashioned gem of a software.
  
 
  Technically, I have had no problem to run it under windows XP (SP1) . Though before the install, 
 you must set the setup. exe on the CD to compatibility mode with win98. If not, you won't be able 
 to select the drive where to install the game. And by the way... The installation is unique, assisted 
 by voice and providing you with a small arcade game to play while waiting for the program to complete 
 the setup. Excellent concept! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JamakanBrudda
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jan 19, 2007 10:23 pm PT
Review:  Broken Sword: Shadow of the Templars or 'Circle of Blood' as it is also known is quite possibly 
 one of the best games I have ever played. I bought it several years ago amoungst a small bundle 
 of less notable games, and when I saw the title 'Broken Sword' I really didn't know what to expect. 
 What I found was an immersive world with an incredibly well written plot and memorable characters. 
 The game is beautifully hand drawn and animated in a style that you rarely see in modern games, 
 the spoken dialogue feels very natural and seems to flow and remain interesting without dragging 
 on for too long, and is complimented by excellent voice acting.
  
  The gameplay itself relies on a 'point and click' interface which makes the it seem simple, but 
 by no means bad. The plot revolves around the games hero, George Stobbart and his quest to unravel 
 a seven hundred year old mystery surrounding the Knights Templar, and although it deals with some 
 darker topics, the game still manages to retain a lighthearted and humours nature that prevents 
 the plot from getting too dark.
  
  Broken Sword may not be for everyone, if you are into more action oriented games then you may find 
 the plot to be slow and the puzzles tedious, but for those willing to be patient and see the game 
 through, I highly recommend you find a way to play it. Broken Sword is a timeless example of old 
 school gaming that can hold it's own alongside modern adventure games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Guib
Rating: 9.8
Date: Oct 3, 2006 10:10 am PT
Review:  This game has absolutely everything a gamer wants: great graphics, great story, simple interface, 
 a little bit of action and totally relevant puzzles. With the ever so present feeling someone is 
 hot on your trail, this game will have sitting on the edge of your seat until you finish it.
  
  I have nothing bad to say about Broken Sword: Shadow of the Templars (a. k. a. Circle of Blood, 
 whatever that's refering to) . The action sequences might get on your nerves if you haven't saved 
 at the right spot in the game, but that is really the only flaw I would consider. Voice acting 
 is spectacular. The interface is the simplest I've seen in adventure games. There is no HUD, you 
 just need a mouse and 2 buttons, one for looking, the other for using. Remarkable, to say the least.
 
  
  If you're into adventure games, there is no second thoughts to have about this title: get it! Especially 
 at a bargain price, with the sequel included, you cannot go wrong! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Wiesenthal
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 3, 2006 5:11 pm PT
Review:  George Stobbart, an American on vacation in Paris, is relaxing and enjoying the scenery while sitting 
 at a caf, when suddenly it blows up! A man is killed in the blast, and George saw who's to blame: 
 a clown! George is determined to find the killer. He teams up with Nico, a journalist. They soon 
 find that there's more to the crime than the killing of one man and the destruction of a caf. 
 Beware though: as you get closer to the truth, there are those who will try to stop you. Who can 
 you trust?
  
  Gameplay:
  
  Playing this game is extremely entertaining. The story is very suspenseful throughout the whole 
 game. It doesn't matter how many times I play it, it still feels remarkably thrilling every time. 
 Some of the puzzles are quite hard, but that's how a great adventure game should be. Logical thinking 
 will get you far in this game.
  
  Graphics:
  
  The beautifully hand-painted locations are simply astonishing. There have been many times when 
 I have caught myself just staring at the scenery instead of actually playing the game.
  
  Sound:
  
  To put it simple: the right music at the right time. For example, when you walk into 
 a luxurious Parisian hotel, there's a lady playing the piano, and when George gets into serious 
 problems, the music indicates danger.
  
  Value:
  
  As I mentioned earlier, you can play this game over and over again. There are many memorable characters, 
 so when playing the game again, it almost feels like meeting old friends who you haven't seen for 
 a while.
  
  Tilt:
  
  As you can see, I really love this game. I love the whole Broken Sword series, and this game is 
 probably the best game in the series. A true work of art this game is! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cartman55
Rating: 9.2
Date: Aug 3, 2006 10:03 pm PT
Review:  Broken Sword: The Shadow of the Templars (known in the U. S. as Circle of Blood) is one of the greatest 
 adventure games ever created, and Revolution Software's best game. Beautiful graphics combine with 
 a great story and simple puzzles make this game a masterpiece.
  
  The game starts with the hero, George Stobbart, sitting outside of a Cafe drinking coffee. A man 
 walks into the cafe with a briefcase. Soon, a clown comes along, blows up the cafe, and steals 
 the briefcase. Soon, you are pulled into a deep, intriguing plot involving the Knights Templar 
 and The Sword of Baphomet. In fact, the main plot is based around the Knights Templar and there 
 is quite a bit of info on them in this game.
  
  The graphics of this game are amazing. Even now, they look pretty good. The graphics are hand drawn, 
 but though they look good, they don't fit the very serious story of the game. They look like an 
 animated film. Although at first this seems strange, you will get used to it.
  
  The story, as I said before, is deep and intriguing, and is one of the best gaming has to offer. 
 The characters are very fleshed out and realistic, and each one is voiced perfectly. The music 
 is very, very good and perfectly fits the situation you are in.
  
  This game, however, is an adventure game. It moves rather slow for those used to a fast pace game 
 like, say, GTA. There is not really any action, just puzzles for you to solve. Most can be solved 
 with just a little brainpower, thankfully, so you are not using a tissue with a hammer to start 
 a vaccum cleaner or anything like that. The game has great replay value if you appreciate a good 
 story, and it is very fun.
  
  I had very few gripes with this game. The main gripe was the length. Gamespot's review of the GBA 
 version, which is the exact same game, said it would take 20-30 hours to complete. The game took 
 me 10-12 hours to beat using a guide for certain puzzles. I ran through it in 3 days. You also 
 cannot run. Besides these small inconveniences, the game is great and if you are looking for a 
 great adventure game, I cannot reccomend this game enough. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dantebk
Rating: 7.8
Date: Jul 18, 2006 5:00 pm PT
Review:  Broken Sword: Circle of Blood is a graphic adventure game in the classic style created (and perfected) 
 by Sierra and LucasArts. Graphic adventures are my absolute favorite genre of video game, and I've 
 played over 50 all the way through. I was out of the scene for a few years, and when I came back 
 I found everyone online considered this game to be one of the best ever, so I had to check it out 
 for myself.
  
  Plot:
  
  The plot was probably the part of the game I liked least. George Stobbart, an American tourist 
 in Paris, is almost killed by a cafe bombing. So of course, he dedicates himself to finding out 
 what happened. Really? What's his motivation? For a guy with no reason to be so, he's the most 
 impulsive video game hero I can think of. If someone mentions Spain or Ireland as a possible link 
 to his investigation, he goes and buys a plane ticket. The only character who made less sense to 
 me than George was Nico, his partner. She was supposed to be a reporter, but she spends 95% of 
 the game in her apartment scribbling on a notepad and implying George is an idiot. Do something! 
 Investigate! Report! But no, she just sits and sits... taking phone calls from George and offering 
 useless advice... Plot gets a C+.
  
  Puzzles:
  
  The puzzles were very cool. Though some were a little far fetched and even irritating, that's not 
 unusual. In most adventures, you'll get an inventory item, use it for a puzzle, and then carry 
 it around for the rest of the game for no reason. The amazing thing about this game is that you 
 continued to use the same inventory items time and time again for different reasons! A tool used 
 to remove manhole covers, acquired and used to do just that near the very beginning, is used again 
 at least three more times throughout the game in various clever ways. Puzzles get an A.
  
  Graphics:
  
  Dated, sure, but sharp enough that in almost all cases the background objects 
 that needed to be interacted with were clear and identifiable. Graphics get a B+.
  
  Sound:
  
  The sound was fine. Not remarkable. The converations in the game were often very 
 long, and long-winded. The acting was occasionally hammy and ridiculous. Sometimes the voices sounded 
 like they were in a giant echoing room. Sound gets a B-.
  
  Conclusion: 
  
  Recommended. If you have any interest in adventure games, it's definitely a worthwhile use of your 
 time. It's hard to see it converting anyone though. While I enjoyed it, the nonsensical plot never 
 gave me any sense of urgency, and it took me months to complete it. Overall: B. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gabi67
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jul 9, 2006 4:59 am PT
Review:  I want to start by saying this is a great classic adventure game. Its really a old school adventure 
 game. It has everything: nice graphics, a solid story, good dialogues, and the thing i like the most 
 in games, humour.
  
  Its really an adventure game packed with a lot of plots, making it very interesting. The places you 
 visit are great to. They give the gamer a large world he has to discover and they all make you feel 
 like Indiana Jones embarked on a long journey to discover the truth about the Templars.
  
  The visual is exactly what you need in an adventure. I would make even now adventures with cartoon 
 graphics, i think it suits adventures at best.
  
  The dialogues are simple, funny and right to the point, not exaggerating just to make the game a 
 bit longer.
  
  The story and the characters are all pieces of this game that fit together perfectly.
  
  I 
 played all of the other Broken Sword games and loved them, but this one ,in my opinion is the greatest 
 one of all thanks to its more elaborated story witch has less flaws then the others, and its more 
 funnier then the rest. So the best thing i can to say after playing this game is: Let the adventure 
 continue! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: malkav11
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jan 9, 2006 9:33 pm PT
Review:  The Broken Sword games (of which, despite the title, this is the first) have had a reputation for 
 excellence for some time now. I discovered a copy on the extreme cheap at my favorite secondhand 
 store and decided to see what all the fuss was about. It took me more than a couple of years to 
 finally see it all the way through, due to distractions from other, newer games and life, but I 
 recently finished it and was consistently impressed with the game's high level of quality.
  
  The graphics are colorful and well animated. They're emphatically 2D but given the era of the 
 game, I guarantee you 3D would have been disastrous. The people you meet and places you visit are 
 all very memorable and unique with plenty of attention to detail.
  
  Puzzlewise, the game relies almost exclusively on inventory manipulation, but unlike many games 
 of the sort, solutions generally make intuitive sense. Like the best games in the genre, if I was 
 stuck in Circle of Blood it usually meant I hadn't explored my environment as thoroughly as I ought 
 to have. My one complaint is that there isn't really any facility for prompting you as to where 
 you'd left off and where you might profitably go to continue advancing. For some people this will 
 not be an issue. For me, as months sometimes went by between play sessions... it was a problem. 
 One that I did overcome, but a problem nonetheless.
  
  Plot and dialogue are the strong points, and I approve most heartily as these are generally what 
 I come to the genre for, not esoteric Myst-style puzzling. Not only are the people you meet visually 
 distinctive, but they all have excellent voice acted dialogue which is often hysterically funny 
 while never quite breaking the feeling of conspiracy and danger that pervades your explorations. 
 Be prepared for several surprising twists as you gain further information. 
  
  In short, Circle of Blood has it all. Good looks, puzzles that are satisfying but not an obstacle 
 to the progression of the game, intelligent and well told plot, and snarky comments to spare. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: m0zart
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 16, 2008 9:47 pm PT
Review:  This is the game that introduced me to the adventure gaming genre on the PC. Its charming love 
 story, with political intrigue containing both present and historic elements, and its well-developed 
 down-to-earth less-than-likely heros with sharp wits and culturally stereotypical personality types, 
 even today wins over countless gamers, introducing them to the adventure gaming genre, and endearing 
 them to a world of story-driven games with simple controls. This review is for the original PC 
 release of the game, which in the United States was called "Circle of Blood, but is also titled 
 "Broken Sword: Shadow of the Templars".
  
  You play as an American in Paris named George Stobbart, enjoying your vacation outside of a French 
 cafe. While relaxing and enjoying the scenery, an odd man dressed as a clown enters the cafe and 
 scuffles off in a hurry. The cafe explodes, and the mystery begins. George eventually learns that 
 the incident is linked to a modern version of an ancient organization called the Knights Templar, 
 and a plan to take over the world. George will travel several European countries and locations 
 in the Middle East, having discussions with some very cleverly scripted and drawn characters, with 
 some clues in their comical banter. He'll solve some puzzles, which are by no means simple, but 
 aren't so taxing as to put off the grey-matter-imparied. Among the characters, George will meet 
 a cute French reporter who becomes George's love-interest throughout the "Broken Sword" series. 
 The story is unique and engaging, but Revolution Software didn't stop there, providing a game that 
 is really enhanced by the very-well-drawn classical cartoonish backgrounds, well-done animation 
 for character movement, and an incredibly charming musical score. These are some of the best drawn 
 backgrounds I've experienced in a game. The fact that they were prerendered only seems to add to 
 their visual clarity, and allow them to provide a mythical yet believable foray into the many environments 
 the player will discover. The musical score is no slouch either. This is some of the best mood 
 music in any game. The score really transports the player into a relaxing European mindset, tensing 
 up only at moments which call for it. The music very much reminds me stylistically of some of the 
 softer compositions from the British Light Music school, sounding in tone and mood similar to compositions 
 like "The Haunted Ballroom" by Geoffrey Toye, or "Cradle Song" by Gordon Jacob. The voice-work 
 and dialog are some of the best in any game, and keep it very much centered on its story-driven 
 plot, adding to the overall believability of the story. You are likely to both laugh and marvel 
 at the comical characters you will run into along the adventure.
  
  Two-dimensional adventure games often-times use point-and-click interfaces of various varieties, 
 and this game is no exception. However, the design of this particular interface is where this game 
 really shines. Most adventure game systems around this time have either very limited options, or 
 complex control schemes, both in activity and dialogue. The developers of this game created an 
 interface in which new clues and information are kept in one inventory, while items discovered 
 are kept in another inventory. When entering into dialog with another character in the game, both 
 of these inventories appear. This gives the game a real sense of non-linear discovery, though perhaps 
 artificial. You must find certain clues, items, or information, before such dialogue options will 
 open with each character. That the game tracks these discoveries makes the appearance of new options 
 at other points in the game a step above some of the non-sequitur changes experienced in other 
 adventure games. Backtracking becomes part of the game, but unlike other adventure games, it doesn't 
 really feel like backtracking, because the sense of discovery along with the dramatically unfolding 
 storyline, keep the game from feeling contrived or stagnant, and unlike some adventure games, it 
 is possible to die based on unwise decisions made during the game.
  
  Execution of gameplay in this PC release is a breeze. Loading times are low, and the point-and-click 
 control schemes are clearly made for the PC's interfaces. There are a lot of points in the game 
 where speed and accuracy are required to succeed (and in some cases, not die some horrid death) . 
 None of these situations were impossible, or held back by the control scheme. I couldn't find a 
 single bug in the entire game, and that's saying something that can't be said for the Playstation 
 and Gameboy Advance ports of the game. I simply have no choice but to rate this PC-release of the 
 game as high as possible. Its that well-designed.
  
  Revolution Software literally introduced a renaissance in the adventure genre with the release 
 of this game. Its perhaps the best-known game in that genre, and few games since have so fully 
 reinvented adventure gaming as we know it. This game is my favorite in that genre, in any of its 
 various platform releases, and I am not the only one who recognizes it as such. That is perhaps 
 the best testament to this game's ongoing popularity, in that its fans have never forgotten the 
 lesson of what is possible, and keep waiting for other developers to raise the bar. Of course, 
 that may never happen again, but at least we still have the "Broken Sword" series. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 1carus
Rating: 9.6
Date: Apr 2, 2006 1:31 am PT
Review:  These days, adventure games are near extinct, along with their witty, and intruiging stories and 
 puzzles. The reason, gamers these days are to involved in blood and gore, and couldn't care less 
 for puzzles. Broken Sword, however, is one of the only adventure games these days that people recognize 
 as a good game. 
  
  You take the role of George Stobbart, a patent lawyer from America, on a vacation in Paris. When 
 enjoying a nice cup of coffee at a cafe, George is approached by a mysterious clown, carrying an 
 accordian. The clown enters the cafe, drops the accordian, and the cafe explodes, sending George 
 blown to the ground. George then takes it upon himself to discover what's happening, and finds 
 more questions then he does answers, as well as a few too many enemies.
  
  Involving an exciting and breathtaking story, it involves humour with a dark plot to take over 
 the world. Set in the modern day, Broken Sword features snippets of history, involving the Knight's 
 Templar, and the hanging of them at Montfaucon Square in Paris. Broken Sword's puzzles are clever 
 and exciting, from humourous gags such as distracting an old janitor who thinks his vacuum cleaner 
 is a person, to deathdefying leaps where George must climb atop a train, and wrestle with train 
 lines and wind.
  
  The gameplay is usually a slow paced walk-around looking for inventory items to be picked up, so 
 if you're more of a shoot-em-up kinda person, than this probably won't be for you. The gameplay 
 differs from scene to scene dramatically, having to focus on the puzzle at hand, and you feel really 
 good when you uncover the puzzle, and solve it. Sometimes, you get stuck, and really just want 
 to read a walkthrough, but that adds to the fun, as the game would be nothing without challenging 
 puzzles.
  
  Even though the game was made in 1996, it still features some of the most awe inspiring graphics 
 ever, combining beautiful and bright 2d backdrops, from the pubs of Ireland, to the gardens of 
 Spain, and beatifully created character models that move smoothly and freely. The cinematics are 
 a beautifully realistic representation of human beings, while still keeping the cartoon look and 
 feel of the characters, leaving a simple yet effective animation.
  
  The sound in the game is fantastic. George Stobbart's voice is a well toned, average american voice, 
 proving that even your everyday patent lawyers can save a world in perel. The french accents work 
 well to really give you the feeling that you're in Paris, while the Irish accents are brilliantly 
 done, capturing the feeling of a drunk, fat Irishman after a day at the pub. The music is usually 
 a soft, mysterious melody, that plays shortly after discovering a clue, that really helps to move 
 along the story, and sends chills down your spine when you know that something bad is about to 
 happen.
  
  As the original in a series of three, The Shadow Of The Templars is one of my favourite, because 
 the story is far deeper than the others, and the beautiful 2d settings are lost in the third game, 
 falling victim to 3d graphics. Each character in the game is unique, and each has their own clever 
 personality, from a strange truck driver who thinks he's part of the FBI, to a hospital warden 
 who doesn't take "nothing from nobody".
  
  Broken Sword: The Shadow Of The Templars is nothing short of a masterpiece. Revolution Software 
 has truly created a special game that stands out from other games in almost every single way, even 
 if it's the wonderfully made cartoon world, or simply the swift and mysterious music that is played 
 during the game, Broken Sword truly captures your mind and throws it inside the computer, sending 
 you dazzled and amazed. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
