-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: City of Heroes
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/rpg/cityofheroes/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: May  5, 2004
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8.4
Critic Score: 8.6, 60 Review (s)
User Score: 8.6, 3,548 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: NCsoft
Developer: Cryptic Studios
Genre: Modern Online...
Date:     Apr 27, 2004 &raquo;  
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
It's a refreshingly focused online role-playing experience, and is an entertaining, polished game 
 that, unlike so many others, manages to deliver on the underlying promise of an excellent concept. 
 

  City of Heroes is a massively multiplayer online role-playing game... but don't hold that against 
 it. If you've tried one of these types of games lately, then you know they can be clunky, hard 
 to get into, slow-paced, and prohibitively time-consuming. You're also probably accustomed to how 
 they start you off as some pathetic wimp who literally can't walk and chew gum at the same time 
 and must spend hours swinging at snakes and rats before he or she gains any reasonable amount of 
 proficiency as an adventurer. But City of Heroes isn't like this. It lets you create your own unique 
 superhero who starts off strong and grows much stronger as he or she keeps taking down Paragon 
 City's ruthless criminal element. The game is attractive and accessible and features big, fast-paced 
 battles. Above all, it succeeds at bucking most of the genre's bad trends, and this is an amazing 
 accomplishment. Yet, City of Heroes is so streamlined that it actually feels rather stripped-down 
 in some respects; admittedly, there's really not much more to the game beyond battling lots and 
 lots of packs of computer-controlled bad guys. So it might not have what it takes to keep you glued 
 to your PC for the next five years (especially not at $15 a month after the first 30 days) , but 
 for a while, it sure is fun.  

          One of the best things about City of Heroes is that it's not like other online RPGs. It's 
 easier to get into, it's faster, and often times, it's simply more enjoyable.     

  The best thing about City of Heroes is that it genuinely offers the thrill of discovery -- something 
 that is fundamentally uncommon in gaming, since most games are closely modeled on established genres. 
 Actually, much of this thrill may be derived from the game's elaborate, extremely entertaining 
 character-creation process, which allows you to craft a convincing replica of any of the most famous 
 (and not-so-famous) superheroes in the Marvel and DC canon. As well, there's a good chance you 
 can rip off the look of your favorite video game character or Hollywood action hero. However, you 
 can always come up with something completely off-the-wall and original, if you'd prefer.  

  There are tons of different face masks, outfits, body types, little frills, and colors to choose 
 from, and the consequence is that most all the player characters running around in City of Heroes 
 look truly unique. After a while, you'll learn to pick out the discrete elements that make up each 
 character. For instance, you can make a cigar-chomping cowboy with huge, robotic arms and medieval 
 armored leggings, but you might see some less-ridiculous characters running around sharing some 
 of the same details or body parts. And while you can make everything from huge, sinister-looking 
 robots to slinky gals in hot pants, it must be noted that the difference between any two characters 
 sometimes tends to be only skin-deep (or skin-equivalent-deep) . Furthermore, there's a shocking 
 omission: There are no capes. You'll see guys that look just like Superman and Batman running around, 
 capeless. That's just  wrong .  

  Even though it doesn't affect gameplay, choosing your appearance is very important, because once 
 you settle on it, it's not going to change during the course of your character's existence (for 
 the time being, anyway) . That's actually one of the problems with the game. In most online RPGs, 
 a character's experience is readily apparent, at-a-glance, due to the elaborateness of his or her 
 armor or weapons or something similar. In City of Heroes, you'll be able to discern higher-level 
 heroes by their abilities to fly, teleport, superjump, and so on, but all heroes are created equal-looking. 

          The open-ended character-creation system lets you completely rip off your favorite superheroes, 
 and it lets you make incredibly strange creations of your own.     

  The most important decision you make when creating your character is your choice of superhero archetype, 
 of which there are five. There's the blaster, a ranged specialist; the tanker, an extremely hardy 
 melee fighter; the scrapper, a fast and powerful close-range combatant; the defender, who provides 
 healing and support; and the controller, who provides crowd control and support. Within these five 
 archetypes, there are a variety of distinctive options. As a result, you'll choose one respective 
 option from a variety of primary and secondary skill paths. So, for example, you can be a blaster 
 who specializes in assault rifles and fire spells, a scrapper who specializes in broadswords and 
 regenerative skills, or a controller who specializes in gravitational forces and radiation. All 
 in all, you'll be able to use this open-ended system to create a wide variety of interesting, multitalented 
 characters whose powers are either plausible within the context of a superhero game or are just 
 utterly absurd -- which is cool too.  

  The character combinations are extensive and fun to experiment with, but they  are  limited. And, 
 once you settle on your starting choices, you're stuck with them. Indeed, as you gain experience 
 levels from fighting and are prompted to choose new skills or are prompted to choose different 
 abilities to enhance, you'd better make your choices count, because there's no going back after 
 you make them. Fortunately, there aren't many "wrong" choices to be made here. All the archetypes 
 are desirable in groups (blasters are especially common in the game, though) , and there are clear, 
 concise descriptions available for all the skills in the game, so you can plan your character out 
 in advance to avoid those skills that don't sound compatible with your playing style. Invariably, 
 you'll get "class envy" and will want to try out a completely different character from the one 
 you've been playing, but that's where a lot of the fun in City of Heroes comes from.     

  We've spent a long time going over the character-creation portion of City of Heroes, because, 
 the truth is, you'll probably spend a lot of time there yourself. Once in the game, things get 
 considerably less complicated. You'll start out in a brief interactive tutorial (which, unfortunately, 
 is exactly the same each time you create a new character) , where you'll learn the basics involved 
 with moving around, taking on tasks from non-player characters, running from point A to point B 
 using the handy waypoints on your compass, beating up thugs, gaining experience points, and using 
 "enhancements" (for bolstering your skills) and "inspirations" (an abstract version of magic potions) . 
 This tutorial, for better or worse, does cover much of what City of Heroes' actual gameplay has 
 to offer. Other online RPGs, though they're ultimately combat-oriented just like City of Heroes, 
 at least offer diversions in the form of trade skills, shopping, and player-versus-player elements. 
 On the other hand, City of Heroes is squarely focused on player-versus-environment action.  

          The gameplay of City of Heroes revolves entirely around battling computer-controlled 
 bad guys.     

  Fortunately, the combat works very well. One of the great things about City of Heroes is that it 
 effectively allows for some very large and dynamic skirmishes. The various effects of different 
 weapons are attractive, powerful-looking, tactically significant, and easily distinguishable. Your 
 enemies, meanwhile, exhibit some shred of intelligence sometimes (they'll try to flee when overwhelmed, 
 or they'll try to flank you when they outnumber you, for instance) , which is more than can be said 
 of enemies in most such games. Another nice touch is that you'll encounter your foes in context. 
 Thugs can be seen mugging civilians or loitering by parked cars, sinister magicians can be found 
 conducting bizarre rituals, mutant fiends can be found plotting Paragon City's destruction, and 
 so on.  

  Player groups may consist of up to eight players, which is larger than average. Enemies are rarely 
 fought one at a time and, instead, tend to congregate in large packs, sometimes of around a dozen 
 or two. Characters of all archetypes learn a variety of useful combat abilities that can affect 
 multiple enemies in an area of effect, debilitate or incapacitate opponents, effectively finish 
 off fleeing foes, cause dissension in enemy ranks, and more. Managing a full party's worth of these 
 diverse and interesting powers isn't a chore, but balanced groups of players who plan carefully 
 will be able to defeat much stronger opponents than usual, resulting in a faster gain of experience 
 levels. In City of Heroes, you want to keep leveling up. The pace of level gain noticeably slows 
 down after about the 10th level, but by then, you'll have a significant variety of powers to use 
 in battle, which should help keep you involved in the proceedings.  

  Your character begins with several basic skills, so things start simple. You have health points, 
 which you lose as you take damage, and you have endurance points, which are drained as you use 
 your skills. More-powerful skills tend to cost more endurance and take longer to recharge between 
 uses, so you'll need to manage your endurance bar during prolonged encounters (and between them) . 
 There tends to be little downtime between fights, though characters all have a rest skill that 
 lets them quickly regain all their health and endurance, and inspirations (which are frequently 
 earned from defeated foes) can be used to instantly restore large amounts of either resource.  
 

          City of Heroes lacks a lot of community-oriented features, such as auctioning, trade skills, 
 and player-versus-player combat, which give many other online RPGs some of their lasting appeal. 
     

  The game's interface is clean, simple, streamlined, and functional. It's intuitive to learn and 
 great to use. Finding player groups is extremely easy. Just toggle the button to indicate that 
 you're looking to join a team, and chances are that someone from among the game's already-dense 
 player population will send you an invite moments later. There's no pretense in City of Heroes. 
 Quick greetings and curt good-byes are exchanged as players come and go, and there's a common understanding 
 that teamwork in the game is both for fun and for gain but not necessarily for complication or 
 drama. For the occasional bouts of genuine social interaction, City of Heroes offers some clever 
 provisions, such as the ability to play rock-paper-scissors or flip a coin to settle a dispute. 

  In other online RPGs, you might argue with your group over who should get to take the loot from 
 a slain beast. But, apart from inspirations and skill enhancements, there's no inventory and no 
 looting in City of Heroes. This is a calculated design choice that yields mixed results; as mentioned, 
 the bad part is that your character won't get to show off any hip, new equipment. But the good 
 part is that gameplay is completely alleviated of the petty squabbles common in other online RPGs. 
 You do earn "influence" in City of Heroes, which basically serves as money, and you can use it 
 to buy enhancements or inspirations from merchants, although this isn't necessary. City of Heroes' 
 characters are entirely self-reliant.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (193 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: zero3one
Rating: 6.5
Date: Nov 2, 2008 4:28 pm PT
Review:  Visually this game is pretty good. Character models are good, as well as movement and action animations. 
 Character customization is also good and colour bright and vibrant making the game feel like a 
 comic book.
  
  Unfortunately the world feels very confined and is pretty small and every place starts to look 
 like every other place after a while. Travel to some places require the use of the "subway" system 
 which I suppose is suppose to make the world bigger but it certainly doesn't make if feel so.
 
  
  Missions are pretty standard and easy. Basically when you receive a goal (go to X, kill so many 
 X, return) the point where you must go to complete this mission is highlighted for you so it's 
 a no brainer. After a while everything feels the same with names changing being the only exception.
 
  
  All of the missions that I've been on that I can recall have been instance based. After receiving 
 your mission from a quest giver, you make your way to the start (which is a door into some building) . 
 Once inside you are in your own instance which once again makes the world feel small and confined.
 
  
  Altough interesting at first this game quickly losses it's luster after a few days of playing. 
 If it was $5 a month instead of the standard $15 it might be more worthwhile but even that is pushing 
 it for me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BrianKotarski
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 29, 2008 2:58 am PT
Review:  City of Heroes is the only MMO that is firing on all cylinders. From the constant updates that 
 are always keeping the game fresh, to the amazing player base, CoH is worth the monthly subscription 
 fee. As of today, October 29th 2008, City of Heroes is in it's 12th issue. With issues 13 and 14 
 already announced there are so many great things to look forward to. If you played CoH at launch 
 you would be in for a totally new experience now. It has the best character creator I have ever 
 seen. I could play for days just making different superheroes. Then the amazing amount of different 
 classes and sub-classes that insure that you can tweak your powers to be whatever you imagine. 
 At only $20.00 for both City of Heroes and City of Villains, you have no reason not to pick it 
 up for the first time, or re-institute your account and check it out again. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rezpatriot
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 26, 2008 6:13 am PT
Review:  This is not to complicated a game to play if you think, but with a low end computer your loading 
 screens might last a little longer than others. But given that the game can continue a long time 
 after you load up, and that the character creation is awesome. With many extra features to beef 
 up your character and a truly core RPG experience that follows how some of the original pen and 
 paper RPGs worked. Easter eggs, and few disconnections keep your frustration at bay, and a tight 
 community who all take their character seriously and do offer lending hands. You might find yourself 
 alone on your quests and not being able to explore everywhere due to high level enemies, and never 
 thought my superhero would run away so much from foes!!! But I really enjoyed the game, really 
 enjoyed the players and really found that the support from the website and the actually game were 
 simple and really makes you want to play some more. Great game! Try the 15 day trial if you haven't 
 its worth while. The game will last too I reckon until the sequal comes? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NetGod
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 20, 2008 5:22 am PT
Review:  This is one of the best, (if not THE BEST) , video game ever created. It's not the missions you 
 go on, (those can get repetitive quickly) . It's not the villians you fight, (you'll see them more 
 than once) . It's the beautiful graphics, amazing sound effects, and most of all . . . it's the 
 community of players. In no other game do the players reach out to me, so quickly, so eagerly to 
 form teams, friendships, even love. The social impact the game makes on your gaming life contributes 
 heavily to it's extremely addictive nature. The game can be played casually or with hard core vigor, 
 diving into item creation, or super group details. Create 'your' super hero, (not someone elses) . 
 Select his/her origin (mutant, alien, ect) . Select your powers, (Fire blasting, dual katana swords, 
 ect) . Sculpt your heroe's body, hair, face, height, wieght and name. The options are nearly limitless. 
 How involved you become is up to you. One thing is for certain. You'll never be alone again. :) 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dean_Harper
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 22, 2008 10:12 am PT
Review:  When I first read about CoH, i was worried by most writers telling about its more PvE oriented 
 gameplay. This kind of turned me off from the game, as i HATE grinding in WoW. However, the massive 
 character creation tools and the cooperative play emphasized in game really have drawn me to the 
 game. Almost every mission is meant to be done with other people so as to up the experience earned 
 in each mission by increasing the number of enemies relative to the party size. However, it really 
 is not hard at all to find at least one group of your level to do missions with. Usually, in fact, 
 i find a group within the first 5 minutes of asking. Ultimately, though, CoH is about creating 
 your very own hero. If you have ever wanted to be a superhero with very unique powers and a spiffy 
 costume, then CoH/CoV is the game for you. So GO BUY IT NOW!
  
  
  -Dean 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gta-codlover
Rating: 10
Date: May 22, 2008 12:33 am PT
Review:  this game is good i mean REALLY GOOD! if you like mmo's/RPG this would be the game you would love 
 to play forget w. o. w its all about city of heros i mean what other game lets you make your own 
 super hero?! beside this game that is coming out 2010 of Q4 for the xbox360 its going to be a mmo 
 rpg but later on that this game is for the pc i wish it was for 360 so that i could play it some 
 more but the poor side is that you have to pay money to play this game online they also have a 
 city of villains where you can be a villain so you can choose what u want to be! but its a good 
 game you choose your powers when you level up! but the first couple of levels is easy then it gets 
 a lil bit harder but u can get a HUGE! group of friends and make your own super hero base customize 
 it! anyway you want. 
  
  there is missions that you dont have to go alone cause i know no one wants to go it alone partner 
 up with a friend and kick some A** 
  or! become a villian and FIGHT! each other become rivals!, i mean this game pretty much has it 
 all super speed, teleaport, fly, super jump you name it! you like halo? wanna be a halo super hero? 
 download packs! and be come a flaming halo dude! or ice or phyiscal musle ! power you can make 
 your hero anyway you want! 
  
  bottom line good game
  its only 50 bucks! 
  2 free weeks in the pack when you buy it 
  try it if you like it pay for online 
  i give it 
 a 10 out 10 and im pretty hard on games! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CloudStrife97
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 7, 2008 12:26 am PT
Review:  Ok guys, first off I would like to say that many people will try to convince you that World Of 
 Warcraft has it all and is the best MMO game out there. Well thats wrong. A flaw I would like to 
 point out is that its not very team based. I played city of heroes/villains for 3 years, and WoW 
 for 1 year and compared city of heroes has alot more to offer for an MMO. I say this because in 
 city of heroes everyone has something to gain from doing other people's missions and such. In World 
 of Warcraft the person who has the quest is the only one who benefits from it, well city of heroes 
 changed that. In my opinion you play an MMO to be with other players, not so you can go around 
 by yourself just grinding away on quests an enemies so you might be asked to do a pvp match at 
 a high level. In city of heroes teaming pays off because every person gets the end exp for the 
 mission!!! Thats how an MMORPG should be, it should make you want to team. 
  The supergroup system in city of heroes is much like a guild. You have many players all talking 
 laughing and making teams with each other. City of heroes has bases which the leaders of the supergroup 
 can design and customize themselves. Even base raids which is supergroup versus supergroup are 
 highly exciting, to see who has the better base and the better players!! 
  Ok onto pvp. Now whats an online game if you cant show off to other players what you can do? City 
 of Heroes in my opinion has revolutionized player vs player. Often it gets so complex that you 
 will get lost in it, jumping and speeding around at 100 miles an hour you wont know what to do. 
 It is alot more exciting and action pact that any other game we have seen. Guild Wars holds the 
 medal in alot of people's eyes for pvp, but city of heroes/villains pvp is often overlooked.
  Well I have said all the good, but this is an honest review so here is the bad. Often times in 
 player versus player a good archetype but a bad player will beat a good player with a bad archetype. 
 So its not all on skill but powers you choose. And the missions can get repetitive after seeing 
 the same setting over and over again.
  Like any game you have to take the good with the bad, if you beleive this game stinks like some 
 say than you havnt played it yet and should give it a try. After all we all wanted to be super 
 heroes (or villains) at some point didnt we? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: YellowJello
Rating: 6.5
Date: Mar 18, 2008 5:51 pm PT
Review:  City of Heroes starts you off in a small city overridden with gang members and law breakers and 
 you are told to kill a few baddies here and there using the special abilities that you chose when 
 you created your character. It teaches you everything you need to know and it's pretty easy to 
 grasp onto. Once you finish this tutorial, you are sent out to Atlas Park. For me, it got a little 
 boring because the city was just too basic and boring or run of the mill. The missions you get 
 are pretty simple; go to this location and kill everything, then come back and get your next mission. 
 While these are still starter missions and all that, it can cause players to lose interest since 
 most of these missions are basically the same layouts, surroundings and bad guys.
  
  The graphics in City of Heroes are barely satisfactory and yet still a little demanding of your 
 RAM. I never could quite figure out why this didn't run very well on my PC on the recommended settings 
 at 1024 x 768 while when I used to play World of Warcraft on top settings at 1280 x 1024, it ran 
 perfectly fine on my older video card. Everything with the exception of you and the other people 
 playing is very low poly. I can kind of see what they were going for, but in trying to get a comic 
 book look to it, they ended up using very few polygons in the models. The lighting on your characters, 
 however, is pretty cool.
  
  The gameplay is satisfactory at the very most; it's clear that the creators wanted players to play 
 with friends. If you try to play this by yourself then you will be bored and the missions become 
 much harder to complete if you are making a melee character who doesn't have any bodyguards or 
 any healing spells.
  
  The game's creativity mostly comes out of the character creation, which was the best out of all 
 of the MMORPG games that I have played. You can be anywhere from four feet tall to eight feet tall 
 or muscular and huge to thin and skinny. You can change the shape of everything on your character. 
 There is a huge selection of costumes and faces for you to choose from and they can be any two 
 colors that you want them to be. When you're done customizing the way your hero looks, you can 
 write a bio about your character; where they came from, how they got their super powers, anything. 
 If that isn't enough for you, you can also set up a custom battle cry as well. Choosing a name 
 for your character is also pretty cool because if you want to name it something like "The Super 
 Ultra Dude" then you don't have to actually write "the" in the name, there is a drop down box with 
 what I suppose was going to be a list of titles for your character, but it has a choice of nothing 
 or having "The" put above your name in game so that it doesn't interfere with the rest of your 
 awesome name! No, the name thing is not that much of a big deal but the fact that they did it is 
 worth mentioning.
  
  City of Heroes is a great attempt at making an original game and I would recommend it to anyone 
 who enjoys team play. For those of you lone wolves out there who like to do everything by yourself, 
 however, I'd have to recommend that you try something else. I would also have to say that if you 
 are an avid World of Warcraft player, you probably will not like this either, it's very different 
 from World of Warcraft and I've found that most people who try City of Heroes end up getting disappointed. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nephallim
Rating: 7.8
Date: Mar 7, 2008 3:26 pm PT
Review:  After thinking back to my time with Planetside and the memories I forged with it, I started considering 
 some of the other MMOs that I have visited over the years. City of Heroes still has me scratching 
 my head, because I don't remember what drew us to it... but all of my friends migrated to it en 
 masse at the same time. Which is, really, the only reason I stayed passed that first month. My 
 friends were there.
  
  City of Heroes is foremost applauded for its expansive character creation options. I find this 
 laughable, since an admittedly impressive array of character dressings that have no impact on play 
 really isn't something that I feel should weigh in when discussing the strengths of character variety. 
 The actual abilities that define what your character does more limited, but no worse that selections 
 available in most other MMOs. You can fight close or fight at range, you can pour out damage like 
 a firehose or absorb it like a sponge, you can harass your foes with limitations and effects or 
 you can support your friends with buffs and healing. The actual choices of Origin or the different 
 superficial coverings like what energy type you use or whether you wield a katana or battle axe 
 really don't mean anything worthwhile. Like the costumes, they're mostly for pretty but at least 
 have some effect on gameplay in different situations.
  
  Now, not to be all negative about it, I think there is an upside. Someone who is as interested 
 in playing their character as they are in pressing buttons has an awesome tool at their disposal 
 and I believe that this attracts a certain calibre of player that is (at least a small) cut above 
 your average "Gimme kewl powerz so I can win!!" MMO junkie. These kinds of people are generally 
 friendlier and easier to share a server with, so the environment is a lot more comfortable.
  
  The play itself is very simple and easy to get into. Unfortunately, it is not as simple as 
 just going out and doing good deeds. If you aren't on a mission then you aren't accomplishing much 
 of anything. Sin though it may be to admit, I actually like having the option to go out and just 
 do some grinding from time to time. You can't really do that in CoH, it's just not worth the time. 
 So you get stuck into quickly repetitive missions from the word Go.
  
  Furthermore, the developers of CoH apparently went to the school of design that says increased 
 difficulty means simultaneously increasing every aspect of enemies. You quickly find yourself outgunned, 
 outnumbered, and outlevelled by baddies... any one of which is challenging. Especially when entering 
 a building on a mission, it is easy to get in over your head.
  
  So then you get stuck in one of my greatest pet peeves... the obligatory group. I'm generally anti-social, 
 I like to play my games alone or with close friends. I don't want to HAVE to group up with a snotty 
 kid who plays all the time and this is his ninth character and I didn't take the right build and 
 I should follow him because he knows the best way to do this and.... BLAARGH!!
  
  *breathe*
  
  I don't want to HAVE to group to progress in a game. I will accept a slightly 
 slower but still steady progression, that's fine, but give me that option. CoH doesn't do that. 
 Or, at least, it didn't. Maybe it does now.
  
  Still, it is not un-fun. When I had my close friends in a Supergroup and didn't have to call on 
 annoying strangers to fulfill the unavoidable grouping, we spent exciting hours uncovering plots 
 and putting the BAM! WHACK! or POW! to the badguys. I miss flying around the city in my black armor 
 or walking the streets dressed exactly like I do in real life. It was an easy game not to take 
 too seriously.
  
  Which is likely its downfall. If you don't take something serious then it is easy to drift away 
 from and forget.
  
  I see regular mail, still, proclaiming a free weekend event or such. The next time one pops up, 
 I may just dig out my disks and take a look around again. And I never did take a look at City of 
 Villains... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Anofalye
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 25, 2007 9:55 am PT
Review:  Before I go with a few key points, just realize that I dislike the genre of the super heroes, yet 
 I really love the game.
  
  - Travel powers are fast, efficients and include full vertical movement. The metro is amazing in 
 completing the between the zones travels.
  
  - Easy to understand and get started, hard to master. I never found any game which is easier to 
 get started and harder to master, so I am not saying it is the best on this topic, I say no game 
 beat it on both fronts. It is easier then WoW or EQ to get started, but it is harder to master 
 it completely (not merely succeed) .
  
  - You characters become stronger as you advance in levels, unlike in other MMOs where you become 
 deficient as you level up. At level 1, you can solo 3 minions level 1 and it take everything in 
 you. At level 50, you can solo a score of minion 52, 2 lieutnants 52, 1 boss 52 and 1 elite boss... so 
 there is a becoming.
  
  - 50 levels, 24 powers, 67 enhancements (+the 24 first free + sprint/brawl/rest) ... you have to 
 pick a primary power in a list of 4-7 related to your archtype (so in a list 20-25) , you will get 
 the first or second power as you start and you can select any of the 8 other as you level up... many 
 players will make different choices. Repeat for the secondary... then you have to pick up to 4 alternate 
 power sets (among 10 choices) where you can put up to 16 powers (you will obviously pick a lot 
 less there) , finally you pick an epic power set (among 3) and put again up to 4 powers in there. 
 The customisation is plainly amazing, you won't see anyone like you, and even maybe you will see 
 nobody remotedly similar. The worst cookie cutter player will find about 1 player on 18 with his 
 "class" (same primary and secondary) , then maybe 1/3 of these players will be similar to you... maybe... let's 
 resume. You have 1 chance on 4-7 that someone of your Archtype (5 choices + 2 epic) pick the same 
 primary, 1 chance on 4-7 that someone pick the same secondary (if you only have 4 in either, you 
 have at least 6 on the other) ... so 1 character on 24 will be the same primary/secondary as you 
 in pure theoricall abstraction, and we didn't even start considering alternate power pools, epic... and 
 which power are left out. Let's make an example, Ymne my scrapper is a Broadsword/Regen. Even if 
 the scrapper is only 1 of 7 AT, let's suppose 1 hero on 4 is a scrapper (not even considering villains) . 
 Let's suppose that half the scrapper are regen because it is sooo ubah. Broadsword is not particuliarly 
 popular despite been the best single target damage in the game, so let's suppose it is 1/6... so 
 you have 1/4 X 1/2 X 1/6... so 1 player on 48 would have the same primary and secondary as me... I 
 love^parry, most peoples doesn't pick it in the primary. I hate reconstruction, almost everyone 
 pick it. I fly, most don't... so it is hard to find someone like you. If you pick a less popular 
 setting, you may very well be the only player on the server past level 30 with this combo.
  
  - Customisations, all the look you can get... it is amazing. I know designers who spent hours 
 creating characters for the fun of it... so it is likely to anyone's GF could spent hours there... if 
 not the guy to!
  
  
  
  - On the downside... they temporarily enforce raiding. They learn, and now you can earn the same 
 rewards by doing a group! So instead of been a flaw, it is a strongpoint, they make amend for it.
 
  
  - Nerfs where bad, VERY bad... I still ache from these. But they didn't nerfs for sometimes, officially 
 at least (who know about ninja nerfs?) . ED was bad, but the change to some powers as well... IH 
 comes to mind. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FunkyFlyChicken
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 1, 2007 11:39 am PT
Review:  Most MMORPG's have you grinding away, hour after hour, month after month, year after year, on a 
 seemingly never-ending quest to get the biggest/baddest weapons and armors. Unfortunately, after 
 acquiring said items, you realize you look exactly the same as every other fool who wasted months 
 on end trying to get a full set of the same armor.
  
  City of Heroes breaks away from this mold at least, with one of the most diverse character creation 
 systems in this history of the genre, and also does away with the typical loot system.
  
  Starting off creating characters is almost overwhelming. There are so many options on body size, 
 facial features, costume parts, that you can literally spend hours just messing around with making 
 new heroes. Truth be told, this is probably some of the best fun I've had in an MMORPG, and it 
 was before I had even played the actual game.
  
  Once in the game, you will notice some subtle (and no so subtle) differences, even if at the core 
 the combat is about the same as any other MMORPG. You have skills, you set them to a hotkey, and 
 you spam away on various mobs (enemies) you encounter. Where this system differs, however, is that 
 you are presented with countless options on how to boost your powers. Every other level you also 
 get to choose new powers. This system makes you constantly feel like you are getting more powerful, 
 and not just by gaining fireball level 5 . the amount of customization to a heroe's powers, as 
 well as the customization of the individual powers themselves, is unmatched thus far in any other 
 MMORPG in my opinion.
  
  The graphics are decent enough, but aren't pushing any boundaries. They do, however, get the job 
 done. Power effects are nice as well. The sound leaves a bit to be desired at times, but isn't 
 too bad. Questing is the typical grind found in other games, even if a quest is trying to hide 
 it, all MMO's break down to a grind of some sort. You ARE going to be killing (or as CoH puts it, 
 arresting ) mob after mob, whether you do it on your own, or a quest asks you to. However, instanced 
 missions do offer some nice bits of story progression, and task forces (if you have the time to 
 invest in them) , are pretty unique.
  
  One of the biggest things to make or break an MMORPG also is the community, and this is another 
 good area for CoH. There are lots of community run events, such as base/lair raids, player sponsored 
 costume contests, etc. All in all, a very friendly and fun community.
  
  The game is soloable, with the exception of task forces, which are mandatory grouping. However, 
 task forces are not required for game progression, although they do offer nice rewards, and also 
 offer story.
  
  Another big plus, is that there are NO paid expansions (unless you count the City of Villains standalone) . 
 All of the added content is delivered free, on a bi-monthly basis usually. And there have been 
 some great content packages, the latest being a full scale invasion by alien forces.
  
  If you are interested in MMORPG's and/or Superheroes, you can't go wrong with City of Heroes. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Chaos_Prince
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 9, 2007 7:10 pm PT
Review:  City of Heroes is a good game, but you already heard me say that, so i will tell you why. Any person 
 who loves to play RPGs should play this game, it has a kind of geeky feeling, and sometimes you 
 might feel like that when you tell a friend about it. Its the kind of game that grows and you and 
 then you just cant stop playing. Unlike some RPGs with a price to play, this 1 is actually good. 
 I have played so many RPGs; WoW, LOTRO, GW, and many more. This 1 beats them all. The game can 
 take time to get used too, it can be hard to learn how to play, what I like about is that i can 
 play it for hours and not get bored. The replay value of the game is amazing, because there are 
 so many differant ways to make you character. If you have me time, i could calculate the differant 
 character combinations for you, but that might take me a couple of hours and lots of reworking. 
 The choices are amazing. Another bonus about the game is the community, you will be hard pressed 
 to find one with a more helpful community. The players in some games that i play can be **** almost 
 all the time, certainly this game has a few, as all games do, but lots more people will help. The 
 gameplay itself is amazing, with each mission scaled to the difficulty and level of the party, 
 you can also make the enemies harder. I have played in teams that had trouble going from 1 grp 
 to the next, while i have played in others that could take on three mobs of enemies at the same 
 time without anyone dying. The amount of skill to play the game is little, the amount of skill 
 needed to be good at the game is amazing. I have seen people with maxed out level characters, acting 
 big and bad, make stupid mistakes, and get themselves killed or the party killed. While at the 
 same time a low level new guy to the game does the right thing out of common sense. The game is 
 worth playing and worth paying for. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bjtr86
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 5, 2007 4:38 pm PT
Review:  MMORPG about modern super heroes that you create and take down some major villains. The graphics 
 are absolutely awesome but only if your comp can handle it. If you have a decent computer you have 
 nothing to worry about and will enjoy the great graphics but if you don't, good luck trying to 
 stroll through Atlas Park with out extreme lag. The gameplay is phenomenal and it makes it so much 
 fun to go farming. The PvP is ok but its not great, the space is limited and tends to be a little 
 unfair. After you've been playing for it becomes a little annoying unless you continually level 
 which proves to be difficult after level 25. After the quick leveling ceasing ,like in many MMORPGs, 
 it becomes exponentially dull. I found that creating new characters and exploring the different 
 powers is very entertaining. So if you decide to try it, go through most of the powers and play 
 the one that you believe will be the most rewarding and fun or else ,if you have a small attention 
 span, you will give up fairly fast . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spacedog1973
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 5, 2007 2:40 pm PT
Review:  I turned to this game after the hardcore that is FFXI - I did some research and was always into 
 superheros from when I was a 'YOOF'. So when the internet whisper preceding this game were around, 
 I was ready to jump ship and I did.
  
  Never regretted it. One of the things that MMORPG cherish so much is the sanctified upper echoleons 
 of the game the UPPER LEVELS, the place 'WHERE ONLY HARDCORE PLAYER CAN GO'.... Yes, to complete 
 the game and get to level 50 is reasonably easy, certainly for one who has come from some of the 
 harder MMORPGs.
  
  The thing is, in this game, when you hit 50, you can just start over again and create a new character 
 with different super powers and have the same amount, or even more fun, than you did when you hit 
 50 the first time.
  
  Because you see, in city of heroes, its not all about the GRIND. That TIME SPENT IN GAME + TEDIOUS 
 GRINDING = REWARD. Because what NCsoft have realized is that that is not fun. And any REWARD should 
 = FUN. Get it?
  
  After 7 level 50s, only now am I tiring from the game, yet am still attracted to it. Because even 
 with the fun of the game present, at frequent intervals, new content called 'Issues' is added, 
 often changing radically the nature of the game and how it is played. Nothing stands still in city 
 of heroes, noting stays the same. As such it remains fresh and new.
  
  It is not a time sink either. You will not sacrifice unhealthy portions of your life to play this 
 game. It isn't needed. No expensive and rare necessities present that by their absence will impair 
 your enjoyment. Its a streamlined, yet honest and fresh approach to the genre that works.
  
  It just shows that reward can be worth it in a MMORPG without feeling that you have wasted 
 time. Because you cannot waste time that is spent enjoyably. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: whitneyd
Rating: 7.5
Date: Aug 29, 2007 9:10 am PT
Review:  I love the concept of City of Heroes. I usually play it at least one month a year when I'm bored 
 with everything else. It lacks the substance of other MMOs to make me stay with it. For a new comer 
 to MMOs I think this is an excellent place to start. I love that you can do solo missions and they 
 are scaled for that purpose, obviously the really fun stuff requires groups and thats to be expected 
 in an MMO. My main dislike is the lack of items or ways to upgrade your character aside from abilities 
 and ability upgrades. Its hard to adjust to that after playing other games. Overall, CoH is a really 
 fun game and if I had a group of people to play it with I'm sure I'd enjoy it even more. But thats 
 just my opinion :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GriffinLord602
Rating: 8.2
Date: Aug 1, 2007 5:06 am PT
Review:  (European version) I bought this game about 3 months ago, and like you do with every newly bought 
 game you play on it the majority of the time compared to your other games, and this is exactly 
 what i did and when you get into it's very immersive and addictive. But the problem is how long 
 will it be immersive and addictive . This is obviously what most MMO's come across. Because the 
 worlds are so large you need to keep patches and updates quite frequent. So when an upcoming patch 
 was coming i got excited because at this stage i had quite a high character as my main. But when 
 the new patch came i found it with little but an auctioning system, which obviously lets you sell 
 your items in a community of buyers. But i continued to play.... and play... until one day i looked 
 at my SG's (Super Groups) list of members, and it hit me that the european version of this game 
 highly lacks online activity and soon became boring, cause with the player search you only ever 
 saw the same players on everyday. Which was a HUGE let down. So firstly i will review gameplay:
 
  Like i have said it is very entertaining for a few months, but will gradualy bore you. Unless 
 you will become completely immersed within the COH world.
  Graphics:
  The Graphics are very satisfying, better than WOW for instance, and you dont really need a recently 
 bought pc to play, Though you would have the lower graphic settings. I liked the way that they 
 used the light to reflect of the suit, and the visuals of the powers.
  Sound:
  Well the sound with the powers was very upto standard, but in terms of voice in cutscenes it wasnt 
 that spectacular and sounded quite tacky and fake.
  Value:
  The value in this game i suppose is acceptable, but in terms of monthly payments i would lower 
 it in that game due to lack of online activity and repetitive missions.
  Reviewers Tilt:
  In all if you like the idea of being a superhero with abnormally extreme abilities then i suppose 
 this game is for you. But if you want to have the euro version i highly disagree with buying it, 
 but in terms of gameplay and graphics, and i suppose sound, well this game is worth buying. But 
 if you wish to buy a game that is more active then the euro version isnt for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: summergaming
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jul 19, 2007 12:57 am PT
Review:  Most massively multi-player online role playing games develops an image of knight ages as in, majority 
 are based before this century. Not only are the time periods similar but gear (equipment) has played 
 a large role. Without good gear , your character is another noob . Or, more appropriately, you're 
 character doesn't have decent stats, so it makes your guy/girl weaker. Basing the following information 
 on the most popular World of Warcraft.... Player versus Player, mostly known as PvP has taken an 
 incredible importance. Players usually enjoy PvP because they now have the ability to fight other 
 players, and some games include a ladder. PvP is taken like a major competition, league, whichever 
 you're comfortable with. In World of Warcraft, it's usually Alliance versus Horde, or in some cases, 
 Alliance versus Alliance, Horde versus Horde (dueling opportunities) . World of Warcraft also includes 
 mounts; a faster way to move around the world. But, for City of Heroes, it takes MMO's to a different 
 level.
  
  City of Heroes does not have specific equipment that'll boost your stats. In the beginning of the 
 game, you choose a costume, a look. Your costume does not give you and stats, so wearing a spiked 
 chest piece (made up) does not mean you have stronger armor compared to someone wearing a leather 
 chest piece. Instead, the makers of City of Heroes, let you choose something in which will make 
 you look unique compared to other fellow gamers. So instead of gear boosting your stats overall, 
 you have enchantments. These enchantments are not equipped onto your gear but onto your known spells. 
 Instead of upgrading your, I don't know, stamina, you upgrade the power of your spell. During the 
 process of leveling, it'll give you more slots in which to enchant your spell with. And there's 
 an option to upgrade a current enchantment simply by finding/buying the same enchantment but on 
 a stronger level. So if you had an enchantment of level 1 and another of the same also at level 
 1, you can combine them and make it into a 1+. A fair unique-ness compared to other MMO's, agree?
 
  
  Your privilege to get a mount is taken away. Instead, in City of Heroes, you basically are the 
 mount. As you level, you have the option to choose whether to fly, increase speed massively, teleport, 
 or leap. Of course, you also have another option to not choose any of these and learn a different 
 skill they allow you to have. Some will like that, other won't. Yes there are still trains where 
 you can go to for fast access to different areas. I think that City of Heroes is an incredibly 
 good game. Due to the fact that it's rather unique to MAJORITY of other MMO's. I would suggest 
 you at least get a 10 day free trial, try it out. It's worth the money, but that's for you to decide. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GeneviveFox
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 13, 2007 10:40 am PT
Review:  I have never really been a MMRPG player. To be honest, the only other MMRPG I ever played was EverQuest 
 when it first came out and I didn't last long. The reason is that I didn't like the fact that I 
 felt I had to depend on a group cause when you have to depend on someone else for your enjoyment, 
 there can just be too many let downs.
  
  Now for CoH, there is a group element that you can play, but you do not have to be in a 'guild' 
 or have to depend on a group to play. It is helpful, it is VERY helpful, but not a necessity. I 
 really enjoy the fact that I can play a Hero or Villian and go out on my own to kick some butt. 
 I like the fact that I can really manipulate my character's look and really choose different powers 
 within a specific class. I also like the fact that you have the ability to choose between random 
 bad guy searches or specific tasks that are clear to what you are suppose to do and where to find 
 them. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lordxephon
Rating: 6.8
Date: Jul 7, 2007 12:40 pm PT
Review:  This game was real exciting to get into I couldnt wait to customize my hero but it ended up being 
 a little dissapointing. It's alot of just stand there and blasting stuff I dont fell very heroic 
 . Controls are preety bad but you gotta respect a super hero game like this and I was impressed 
 by what it had to bring to the mmorpg world it wasnt the same old same old mmo but just wasnt worth 
 the money.
  Overall good game though and I do reccomend it but if you one of those gamers that like alot of 
 hack n slash this isnt really for you but if your one of those kids that loved comics books then 
 this will probably satisfy you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: slamthebowler
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 29, 2007 6:51 pm PT
Review:  City of Heroes is one of the funnest MMO's I have ever played. And I've played alot, Everyquest 
 (boring) , Star Wars Galaxies (fun and laggy) , World of Warcraft (repitive) . City of Heroes as I 
 said before never stops one of the best parts and main parts of the game is creating your character. 
 This game makes it fun to make alts unlike WoW where its pointless because in WoW you have to focus 
 on one character. Also City of Heroes has 10 free expansion packs, the tenth in the making. This 
 is an amazing feature, they developers will always continue to make them to make the gaming expierience 
 funner. One of favorite things in CoH is that the goal of the game is not to become the highest 
 level. The point is to have fun, unlike Wow where your always trying to make to level 70, then 
 its fun. My only problem with City of Heroes is its only really fun when your in a group with good 
 people. I hate when I'm in a group with 7 idiotes who have no idea how to play the game. My other 
 problem not a big one is the sound effects could be a little better, explosions need to sound like 
 explosions. And some of them are annoying like using ice or fire. But this is a very fun game that 
 sucks you in. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: colinhiom
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jun 20, 2007 2:28 am PT
Review:  I've been playing this game for over two years now and have tried several other MMO's. The City 
 of Heroes games, known as CoX to the regulars (because of the twin evil edition City of Villains) 
 is a great fun game that's easy to pick up and play but also has a lot more to it long term than 
 many reviewers here think.
  
  How come?
  
  Well I've read many, many reviews both here on Gamespot and on other forums, tsk, tsk, and you'll 
 no doubt have realised that most reviews fall either pro or anti CoX. I think this is mainly because 
 the truely addictive, most entertaining aspects of CoX take a lot longer to appreciate than in 
 other MMO's and, possibly more importantly, many players/reviews come from traditional fantasy-based 
 MMO's such as WoW, Everquest, Lord of The Rings On Line and, in fact, the greatest majority of 
 MMO's and other role-playing games that make up the whole space.
  
  So how is CoX different to other MMO's?
  
  Without wishing to repeat a lot of the good details 
 in other reviews here it's best to say that CoX is very different and does not play like a conventional 
 MMOG. For a start the game is really all about developing and using your super powers and abilities 
 as well as creating truly unique new super-heroes (or villains) and the game really excels in these 
 two areas. Unlike any other MMOG you start the game with an enormous variety of character customisation 
 options with thousands of different costume pieces that can be coloured and combined in millions 
 of different ways - and that's without mentioning hundreds of face options, skin colours, facial 
 details and body types (male, female and 'huge') all of which can be scaled to create absolutely 
 unique new characters - before you even start. If you're a true comic-book fan, as I am, then game 
 delivers fantastic value in that one little area alone and that's even before you hit the streets 
 of Paragon City (or Rogue Islands) where all the real action begins. The differences don't end 
 there though:
  
  Different to most fantasy MMOGs is the fact that, character development aside (for a second) , the 
 game is really about fighting, developing your powers, improving your moves, teaming with other 
 heroes and getting on the next level (and power combinations) as fast as you can. You often see 
 critism from other reviewers saying the game is too repetitive and too linear, which is definitely 
 true compared to other, more traditional, fantasy-based MMOGs. But not everyone wants to play a 
 Elf, Human, Dwarf or any of the other textbook fantasy stereotypes and go collecting mushrooms 
 with all the other stereotypical fantasy archetypes. It is absolutely true that CoX does not offer 
 a great variety of mission types but I feel that many reviewers are bound to think that coming 
 from a fantasy background. And going in the reverse direction, playing a traditional fantasy MMOG 
 is very repetive (in that you still mostly run around from sillly quest to silly quest) but without 
 having an excellent fighting system and graphics to break up the monotomy.
  
  On the other hand, the CoX games almost definitely have the best fighting animations and effects 
 and variety of attacking options and customisation of any other MMOG. The foes are never that clever, 
 which can be disappointing, but taking them apart fast is often hilarious and deeply satisfying 
 (as well as profitable) .
  
  So is CoX only good for fighting?
  
  Well this is where many official reviewerss get this wrong. For the last two years I have been 
 teaming more or less with the same online players - you make new friends and join Super Groups 
 much faster than on MMOGs - and we all play the game for the same kind of reason: we love developing 
 and playing out new characters. But long term character development, or rather refinement, of the 
 your characters (toons) is what we play for.
  
  Recent changes
  
  More recently, a couple of months ago at the time of writing, the CoX games were given the latest 
 free upgrade to content, now up to issue 9 (i9 the inventions system) . The inventions system has 
 been commented on as the CIty of Heroes answer to a loot, crafting and trading system (which many 
 players didn't actualy want) but the Inventions systems brings in a lot more by way of unique and 
 rare costume options too - as well as unique new ways of refining and empowering your toons (with 
 unique and more powerful extensions to your powers) . So for traditional, fantasy MMOG players there 
 now is this extra new facet to the game and for the die-hard CoX fan (and there are a lot of them) 
 there is also a lot more to do to continue refining and empowering your characters.
  
  The i9 Inventions update also ushered in a very good new end-game style mission for the high-level 
 toons, with a brand new Statesman's Task Force (a long, detailed and very hard raid-like series 
 of events for a large high-level team) and so, finally, high level toons have a lot more to do 
 than they did before.
  
  I would say that the i9 update goes a long way to balancing out the whole game but especially the 
 end-game scenario on CoH and as of this week the details of i10 have been announced: This also 
 looks like a very good step in the direction of adding good new high-level content that is also 
 driven more by story. i10 will see the re-invasion of Earth by the insidious Rikti (a mind controlling 
 race of aliens) with plenty more content and joint hero/villain missions where the Earth itself 
 is at stake.
  
  It has been muted that i10 is also a stepping stone into more outer-space and perhaps Moon-based 
 missions (and story developments) from i11 onwards and so finally it looks as though the developers 
 have begun to mesh all the critisms (and adoration by the coveted fans) into a well thought-through 
 series of solid (in not overly spectacular) updates to the game.
  
  If you haven't tried CoX before or if you're looking for a really friendly, team-orientated game 
 with great commaradery and action then CoX could be for you. And if you can leave your fantasy-llike 
 expectations behind and look instead at the great team-play, commaradery, fighting and long term 
 development of your own set of truely unique online heroes (or villains) you might just see this 
 game for for what it is: a little gem of game (that's finally getting some decent polishing) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Meteor7
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 14, 2007 11:33 pm PT
Review:  Being a Hero is so much fun especially in the City of Heroes. There are a bunch of cool character 
 looks when you are creating a character and there is so much to actually make. There is also a 
 lot of powers your hero can hold and you can also make him a certain type of hero like a mutant 
 and then make his license and your free from waiting. Seeing all the epic heroes that people have 
 created is really cool and the system is really easy to learn. Although you don't get a cape until 
 higher level like 20 I think and a lot of times you will need a group for your missions. The new 
 PvP for CoH and CoV is awsome. The speed powers are cool too like fly and superspeed and teleport. 
 There is so much in this game that the fun never really ends. So go out and make a character and 
 turn him or her into a legendary hero. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sharpshin
Rating: 8.2
Date: Jun 14, 2007 7:25 pm PT
Review:  First let me start by giving you a bit about my experience with City of Heroes (COH) . I have been 
 playing off and on since beta and overall I have enjoyed the game. I have leveled to the highest 
 obtainable level and have experienced most of the the game has to offer. For this review I'll be 
 leaving out some of the finer details regarding the gameplay mechanics because as with all MMO's 
 that changes pretty frequently. If you'd like information on some of those details I'd recommend 
 you take a quick look at the game's forums to get up to date info.
  
  With all that said I think for those just getting into MMO's (Massively Multiplayer Online) or 
 may find the other's available this is a great game to pick up. I might also add that for those 
 who have had their fair share of the fantasy themed MMO's with their swords and orcs City of Heroes 
 is a great alternative.
  
  COH keeps the archetypes simple, at least it looks that way on the surface, which is great if you're 
 just starting out. You'll find each archetype has an obvious strength/weakness and a role their 
 designed to perform in group situations. One of the great things about COH versus other MMO's is 
 that you'll find that you don't have to have the perfect group combination to experience most of 
 the game. It is possible to do missions without the coveted tank or healer role, it may not always 
 be as easy but it by no means impossible as the mechanics in other MMO's have taught you.
  
  Character creation, as you've probably discovered by now, is one place the game really shines. 
 The limits are almost that of your creativity, it is not uncommon to play the game for months or 
 even years and still not see a character similar to your own. From capes to chains you really can 
 create just about any look you'd like, although some costume pieces must be unlocked later in the 
 game. I recommend you take a look at some of the screenshots of the various character models in 
 the game if you have not done so already.
  
  The graphics of COH in my opinion really are stunning, the character models reflect the classic 
 superhero body structures and the city itself is simply amazing. Power effects are great initially, 
 but in time you may start to be annoyed by some of the toggle (on until you turn them off) abilities, 
 especially if you're one of the melee classes. Each zone of the city has it's own feel and style, 
 anything from the dark gloom of ghost towns to the hustle and bustle of a modern day metropolis. 
 One of my favorite pass times in the game is simply logging in and just flying around the city.
 
  
  When it comes to how long this game will hold you, for most gamers it won't be as long what you 
 may be used to in other MMO's. To me COH seems to lack a staying value, after so long it begins 
 to lose it's appeal and it starts to have a been there done that feel to it. So while still a great 
 game I find I can spend about a month or two at a time with it before I feel the need to move on.
 
  
  COH is a great game when it's all said and done, but don't expect to play this game for years to 
 come. I find that the game is great in small doses or as a break from other games. If you're just 
 starting out with MMO's or not interested in some of the alternatives you can't go wrong by picking 
 up a copy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sweetpotatoes
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jun 7, 2007 3:58 pm PT
Review:  City of heroes is a solid game with a good visual style and a unique approach to online gaming. 
 Aside from guild wars (its main allure being its lack of a monthly subscription) it is arguably 
 the most welcoming game for players looking to get into online gaming. Having said that, it is 
 arguably the cruelest introduction you could receive. The opening and highly in-depth character 
 customisation is certainly the most varied on the market and a good means to express your online 
 identity however you see fit; with plenty of character slots so you can go at the game in radically 
 different ways should you decide. However this is arguably its biggest selling point. It soon becomes 
 a level grind with the difficulty stacking up considerably about half way making it almost impossible 
 to solo all the way through. Your only goal ends up being to reach the top to try out the new archetypes 
 and a fresh set of powers. little care is given for the story lines and various plots of the vast 
 array of evil 'organisations' from personal experience i found this was due to the shear number 
 of out of place mingling villains who would appear to have nothing better to do than grunt continuously 
 while cheering on a fellow evil doer whos biggest evil scheme to date is to steal a womans purse. 
 the fact that all of their evil plans seam to surmount to a large number of villains renting out 
 an apartment block so that they can stand around in it (possibly next to some interactive object) 
 and wait to die left me with little care for what they were doing and why. There is most definitely 
 (probably) a very in-depth storyline expressed in text boxes shown to you by whoever gave you the 
 mission before you set off. So if you fancy a good read and think that you could quite easily get 
 into the story line then this point against doesnt really apply to you. There is a very wide range 
 of powers available for your heroes and they are all unique and interesting enough but considering 
 how long this game has been out its hard to understand why there arent a few more power sets. 
 Shape shifting for instance, quite possibly a corner stone of super powers, has been regrettably 
 completely ignored. Also the sound for the powers, as interesting and accurate to the cheesy world 
 of heroism they are the first time you here them, you will eventually be playing this game with 
 the speakers turned off. That being said i have yet to play another game that has captured super 
 powered travel so well. Soaring, leaping, or zipping over, through and by one of the various and 
 vast zones of paragon city are something of a selling point in this game. One you have to work 
 for.
  
  Speaking of the city, in my eyes this is possibly the biggest hindrance to the game. It simply 
 feels too small; this is due for the most part to these colossal and highly imposing great big 
 blue barriers surrounding each zone within the city essentially filling what would be a rather 
 attractive draw distance with a big ugly neon blue. the biggest improvement they could ever make 
 to that game in my eyes is to break those barriers like the Berlin wall. the combat is just how 
 you would expect all MMO's to pan out. High light your target, select your attack, hope it hits 
 him. Then repeat. This is the second aspect of the game that makes it feel like a grind more than 
 anything else and makes it difficult to immerse yourself in the game. However its hard to criticize 
 something for following the rules of online rpg's
  
  one regrettable aspect to this game is the lack of cut scenes which are present in other MMO's 
 in some ways such as EVE online (one of its biggest selling points being its unique visual flare) 
 and world of warcraft which immerses you in the game straight off the bat with an introductory 
 look at your race and city with a bit of back-story thrown in. considering the numerous and stunning 
 cg animations made by cryptic studios to promote the frequent expansions made on the game as well 
 as the single and somewhat lengthy cut scene setting up the entire back-story to the game (explaining 
 the mass accounts of villainy, aliens, increased amounts of super heroes and the big honking alien 
 space ship) its a pity that not one of these was actually present in the game itself. However the 
 comic given freely to subscribers over the internet does give more credit to the visual style of 
 the game.
  
  the way to play this game is with other people. solo play just isnt as fun (provided you dont 
 end up playing with a bunch of intolerable louts, but you risk that in any MMO) being able to form 
 teams of super heroes like that of the fantastic four, the justice league of course the xmen and 
 being able to coordinate your efforts and powers to really feel a sense of achievement that you're 
 an essential part of a well nit team. Making the new powers and badges earned feel very well deserved. 
 having said that, having your teams limited to 8 seams at times to be a bit of a hindrance, especially 
 when you go up against one of the towering monsters in the game.
  
  This is for the most part made up for by the inclusion of the super group system. this along with 
 the super base and evil lair functionalities, provides a place to feel that your part of something 
 and a place where in you can see your accomplishments grow pvp in the game takes place in what 
 appears to be a mock up of the centre of the city and in various abandoned towns where in you go 
 head to head with the super villains from this games evil counterpart. This always feels like a 
 very forced affair. With nothing at stake and no one to save it just seams like all your doing 
 is pinning your character against the skills of another. considering the point of this game is 
 to make you feel like a hero (one of the main aspects of which is to have a rival villain to duke 
 it out with over the fate of the world in an on going saga for justice) theyve gone all out on 
 making sure it feels as clinically detached from the immersive aspects of the game entirely, somewhat 
 defeating the point. Essentially, rumbling with a villain feels like a very spacious version of 
 the previously established arena style pvp where in super hero proves their prowess over another 
 in a battle for street cred, just a bit less organised
  
  the after sale support for this game is phenomenal with constant updates and new features added 
 to the game on a permanent basis. This alone has compelled me to continue this game considering 
 the almost limitless potential this game has. With the recent addition of an entirely new game, 
 the veteran reward system and now the new invention system. Nothing is stopping them from doing 
 anything they like with this game, they could very well pull down those big ugly blue walls (heres 
 hoping) enabling you to fly from the edge of Eden to the back end of bloody bay. Wouldnt that 
 be something?
  
  to conclude, this is certainly a very solid and entertaining online MMO with fantastic after sale 
 support and a shoe in to place fans of the super hero franchise and if you can haul yourself through 
 the hundreds of plot lines and bury yourself into the story then you will play this game to no 
 end. But if youre the type who cant stand a grind and needs a more abrupt and obvious story to 
 latch on to then this might not be for you. this is a game you could spend years playing and you 
 will be learning stuff all the way through as your character evolves as well as the world around 
 it.
  
  not an MMO to be ignored. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Oswall
Rating: 9.4
Date: Apr 17, 2007 7:11 pm PT
Review:  This game really surprised me. I thought it would be another MMORPG like WOW, but it turned out 
 to be so much more. The character creation system was amazing and you could make your character 
 any way you want with any look. However, make sure that you have a really good graphics card, or 
 your game will either run poorly or won't run at all! This game's fighting system also amazed me. 
 You can combine your powers to make them better, or you could just run around like you would do 
 in WOW, but the graphics are much better! I also like the way you level up, you fill up a bar, 
 and that bar fills up this circular thing, which you need 10 bars to fill that up. In my opinion, 
 this game is not nearly as addictive as WOW, or at least that's what my friends think. Anyway, 
 I would recommend this game to everyone who has a good graphics card and anyone who wants to play 
 a really fun MMORPG! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: khanonline
Rating: 5
Date: Mar 13, 2007 12:28 am PT
Review:  After giving this game yet another chance; (3 time subscribing since release.) I have finally come 
 to the sad realization that this game, though initially fun, will never captivate my game time. 
 That being said, here's what the game is lacking.
  
  For traditional MMO'ers there's a little thing called substance, which this game sorely lacks. 
 Past character creation, there is no way to truely vary your character from any other toon with 
 the same powers. A level 50 mutant/ice controller is really no different from any other level 50 
 mutant/ice controller. Sure, you can throw in the fact that each may have put different enhancements 
 into their power slots, but ultimately you would have a hard time distinguishing one from the other. 
 I think the two biggest hurdles this game has to leap are: End game content and loot. These are 
 two of the most basic concepts when developing an MMO, but neither are properly done in CoH.
  
  Loot - By all means the most important aspect of a game that wishes to keep a user base thriving 
 for the next upgrade. Enhancements just don't cut it. They have the same purpose as enchantments 
 / slotted items, etc, in your fantasy related MMO's. They should be something used to augment your 
 cool loot, not the only reward for your efforts. Cool boots with power increasing stats, capes 
 that offer invisibility to those without the base skill, etc, are what we want... not round disc's 
 you plug into your slots.
  
  Inventions now offer a 'tradeskill' option to enhancements, but basically, you're making a round 
 disc to fill a slot....*snore*
  
  Gimme some gloves with pulsing light effects, that increase my tuffness and dodge ability. End 
 game - The new Statesman encounter looks cool, but you need about 40 more of these to fill the 
 gaps between level 10 and 50. I really hate having to move from City A to City B, C, D, E, F, G, 
 during the course of one task force, just to complete the mission. To copy previous reviews, the 
 basic mission quests - used for leveling - get down right boring after level 10. The AI is very 
 simple, and offers no real test of group skill. It boils down to Lets see if you can handle X number 
 of mobs at once. They all have the same dang tactic... - Zerg -
  
  What the game does better then any other is...
  
  LFG interface - If you're looking to party 
 up and join the action, it really doesn't take long. The grouping interface is very easy to use, 
 and is very effective at pin-pointing those looking to team up. I've literally logged in, checked 
 the LFG interface, and had a group up and running in about 3 minutes. Try that in WoW or EQ/EQ2.
 
  
  Assisting main tank, etc. - This is very well done. It allows you to select one player, whos target 
 is always visible to you. You can damage your target's target, without having to de-select him/her. 
 At the same time, if you're a healer, you can seamlessly heal your tank, because all beneficial 
 spells go to him and not his target. It's so seemless that you don't really care if your tank is 
 constantly switching targets because you'll always damage the one he's hitting, and you're able 
 to heal him without the tedious target switching.
  
  Costumes are very well done, and though I've seen some similar characters in the City, it's nothing 
 like other games. You wont see 20 dwarven paladins, all wearing golden shoulder pieces, in this 
 MMO. To sum up, it's very fun for the first day or two, but after that it becomes a tedious grind 
 to get to level 50 so you can do the one truly epic TF mission. Everything else is just mindless 
 filler. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheCircleSleeps
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 10, 2007 1:14 am PT
Review:  I recommend this game for anyone who wants to give MMOs a shot, or anyone whose tired of slow MMOs. 
 Unlike most online RPGs, City of Heroes has a fast play/fighting style that'll keep you interested, 
 and a well paced level speed to keep you working toward the top. It'll definitly have you hooked 
 for atleast a month with its unique style and presentation. The character creation system let's 
 you stretch your creativity so you can come up with your own completely original superhero to fight 
 alongside others in a city full of superheroes. If you're not very creative, don't worry, because 
 even bad designs can look good, and regular players don't often show off or discuss costumes, except 
 for the occasional comment.
  
  Right now there's not a lot of extra content besides the missions and leveling up to keep you interested 
 for a long time, but, if you're like me, you may find yourself taking long breaks from the game 
 after your initial play period, just to go back for a month of two to enjoy the game so more, and 
 repeat. The designers are adding in a crafting system for costume pieces and enhancements (used 
 to improve super powers in place of armor) that you can sell over the upcoming auction house.
 
  
  Speaking of the designers, they're extremely player friendly. They recognize a player's need for 
 new content, and they release large free content updates regularly. The content updates are filled 
 to the brim with new stuff, with additions in the past including new archtypes (classes) , new areas, 
 new mid level and high level content, new mission types, and new power sets. The designers also 
 interact regularly with the public, especially on their forums, and they listen to the ideas and 
 problems the players and take them seriously. They're very good at responding to people's problems 
 with fixes. They care very much.
  
  The community is extremely friendly and helpful, mostly because it's a game many casual gamers 
 get hooked to so there's not a large sense of elitism. Considering the game is often based around 
 team work, most people are intelligent, friendly, and helpful. There's really no one whose overly 
 obsessed with the game like with Everquest or World of Warcraft, so the message boards are full 
 of player guides and friendly conversations. I recommend you give it a try, atleast for the first 
 free month. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hobbesdknight
Rating: 5.8
Date: Feb 8, 2007 4:29 pm PT
Review:  Well it's one of those games that one minute I love it and will do anything to play, and they next 
 I couldn't care if I played it ever again. CoH has a really neat character creation that ALL games 
 could learn from. Talk about cranking out unique avatars to play. It was so good Marvel Comics 
 launched a lawsuit because people were making X-men and the like to play and use. They lost of 
 course but still....
  
  The skill orbs that you find and collect and eventually combine to get your skills up was a neat 
 idea too. There is plnety of room for some unique character customizations. A blaster (long equal 
 to a mage I guess) can choose to be say a magic based damage dealer. Ok, now under that you can 
 choose from fire and ice based. So it adds a lil' flava' to the classess.
  
  The quests are well, not too bad. There is some grinding, and the locations you goto are limited 
 to being in a city. Sewers, buildings, parks (oh yay) and maybe and underground cave or two. So 
 basically the environments are very stale and boring. Oh and I have to add too, once you make your 
 character, thats it. No armour or waeapons to make the look different so design your avatar wisely 
 folks! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: C_Blade
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jan 16, 2007 9:50 am PT
Review:  City of Heroes is not revolutionary, other than perhaps the fact that it is the first MMO where 
 you can create and play for your own superhero. And yet, it is probably the most entertaining and 
 addicting MMO I've played in my life. (and yes, I've played WoW)
  
  The premise is you start out your own superhero from five different Archetypes : Scrapper (Melee 
 Damage Dealer) , Blaster (Ranged Damage Dealer) , Tanker (Takes all the hits) , Controller (Manipulates 
 and Debuffs enemies) , and Defender (Heals/buffs/assist allies) . Then, you select a power set, from 
 standard powers like Fire, Energy, Electricity, and Ice, to unique, out there powers, like Radiation, 
 Invulnerability, Regeneration, Dark Melee, or Claws, to name a few. There are more than 60 power 
 sets, and that's not mentioning Epic Power Pools or the third power pools.
  
  Then, you customize him/her however you see fit. The customization options have grown immensely 
 since its creation, and almost allow you to create whatever hero you want. The graphics effects 
 are excellent, especially on powers and what the game is able to handle.
  
  The game can be confusing at first. I was confused for quite a while. But in a little bit of time, 
 or if you play with a friend who knows what he's doing, you can learn a lot faster. Ultimately, 
 the game is very simple. No equipment, just you learning new powers and slotting those powers with 
 enhancements (such as to increase Damage, Accuracy, etc.) . Thus, there are no artisans, no mining, 
 blacksmithing, or cooking, anything like that. But that just helps the game focus on what it should: 
 Heroes kicking the snot out of Villains. Furthermore, the powers are incredible, and have outstanding 
 variety, and every time you learn a new power, you'll probably be thrilled to try it out on some 
 baddies.
  
  Some powers, I'll admit, are unbalanced. Invulnerability, Regeneration, and Empathy are some of 
 the most overused and overpowered power sets in the game, while a couple others like War Mace need 
 some help. But even then, it is not that obvious, and doesn't affect the gameplay or experience 
 at all really. And the devs are very good and are always trying to fix or balance things through 
 patches and new issues.
  
  The mission layout also is fairly simple. You do missions for a contact, and eventually he'll introduce 
 you to a new one. There are countless contacts and therefore countless missions that always keep 
 the game interesting.
  
  Perhaps what I like most about the game is the teaming aspect. Because of the way the Archetypes 
 are set up, every single one is extremely important to a team. You need damage, so you always want 
 a couple Scrappers/Blasters. You need someone to take hits, so you need a Tanker. You need to debuff 
 and manipulate enemies, so a Controller or two is valuable. Finally, you NEED someone to heal or 
 buff, so Defenders are very significant.
  
  You gain XP way faster in a group, and that just makes the game aimed at finding a group. The LFG/search 
 tool works very well, and most people want groups, so finding one or putting one together yourself 
 shouldn't be too hard. You also run missions much faster, as you can jump from your mission to 
 another hero's mission and keep the XP flowing.
  
  I played an MMO where almost everyone soloed, and I hated that, so this is a very welcome change. 
 Some gamers might not like that. Soloing is possible, but not recommended to do constantly, as 
 XP will likely be slower.
  
  You can level up to 50, which will usually take more than 150 hours of playing time, and once you 
 get there, you can make two new special characters, Peacebringers and Warshades. Playing one of 
 them is like a new game altogether. Plus, most people always have alts and just level to 50 with 
 like 3 people at once. That can be exciting and gives variety no matter how many times you play 
 through something.
  
  There is so much else to the game... Arch-villain fights, Task Forces, Trials, Supergroups, Epic 
 Archetypes, Transportation powers, PvP, and more, but most of that you'll have to learn on your 
 own.
  
  If you are a hard-core MMO fan, try the trial first. You may think there is not enough to keep 
 you interested, but just remember that the first 20 levels of the game are only a taste of the 
 real game.
  
  It hooked me... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vadim_261992
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jan 7, 2007 8:34 pm PT
Review:  City of Heroes is my favourite RPG and I'm not going to lie about that. I am a big fan of creating 
 my own characters and I have to make sure that there is a lot of choise. When i saw a video of 
 character creation I was ver impressed. The other details I will talk about below.
  
  Gameplay: Now.. the gameplay, it is an RPG so level; ing up is going to be a major drag, but there 
 are ways of gaining levels in different ways. There are many zones which are appropriate for you 
 level and with a big party you may even find leveling up to be pleasent. When you've reached the 
 right level you will gain access to travel powers which are mighty fun. The different number of 
 classes and powers you will get is grand.
  
  Graphics: CoH looks absolutely stunning. If you have a powerfull computer and you could run it 
 at a steady smooth framerate then you are going to enjoy the graphics. The different projectiles 
 look great and there is a lot of detail put into the costumes and faces. From how lustrous the 
 costume is to the tiny wrinkles on the heroe's face. Though it looks great generally, sometimes 
 if you fall next to a wall you will go through it and that can become really frustrating. Also 
 sometimes enemies will lose some clothing making them look weird.
  
  Sound: The game sounds great, u will hear a lot of background noise, suck as somebody screaming 
 or people on the street talking. If you're flying you will hear a woosh sound to show how fast 
 you are moving. City of Heroes has impressive sound overall. I think every RPG fan should check 
 this game out, there is a lot of variety and it looks and sounds fantastic. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ninjagaijin10k
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 13, 2006 10:06 pm PT
Review:  How can I make you feel the deep love/hate relationship I have with this game. In almost every 
 way, this is the worst massive multiplayer game to come around in a long time. But, there is so 
 much about it that is just so much fun and addicting.
  
  The bad stuff is more than I can probably list here. The most annoying is the way I feel like I'm 
 paying a monthly fee for a static world. I was pretty perturbed to be giving them my money, not 
 seeing any real content changes, and then finding out they've been spending all their time and 
 MY money on an expansion pack that costs me money. Add onto that, it is an expansion that isn't 
 really an expansion in terms most of us enjoy, and more like it's own game. It kind of expands 
 things, but overall, I have little to no interest in it. Great, what was I paying all those monthly 
 fees for?
  
  You just run out of things to do. Everything feels static and the same after a while. You go new 
 places, but it's not really new feeling. It looks great, but burns itself out fast. The travel 
 powers exacerbate this. By being able to fly over stuff so quickly, you don't have the same sense 
 of danger and exploration you would get wandering around on foot in another game. But ever if you 
 did land and look around, it looks just like every other place for the most part.
  
  The mission are the best example. You find a new area, and it rocks. You are seeing new things, 
 it's pretty, dark, creepy, funny, etc. But, they all feel kind randomly generated. (Which I believe 
 they actually are.) There is no sense of discovery or exploration. No real sense of fear. You're 
 just in this instance, and you're killing stuff. First time is amazing. The next few times are 
 less so. But after that it just gets older and older. You very quickly get tired of the same old 
 stuff. If it were all part of some huge world map it might be different. It's crazy fighting your 
 way into some infested stink hole in some games, but this one feels to detached. Get mission, go 
 through mission door, fight stuff, leave, rinse, repeat.... again.... and again.... and again....
 
  
  I know a lot of online games have this problem, but this one doesn't get enough content upgrades 
 to feel like you're getting your moneys worth. The only thing you do get are almost constant tweaks 
 to classes. If you leave and come back a month later, it's like the game has changed completely. 
 That character you liked playing before feels completely different.
  
  Now, this is what drives me the most crazy. Despite the fact that it is a brainless mind numbing 
 slaughterfest most of the time, I love it. The team dynamic is just so much fun. It's great to 
 enter a mission with a bunch of good players, and kick @$$. I come back for the same crap time 
 and time again. I get bored, quit the game for a while, come back, more awesome monotony.
  
  I can't stand it, and I hate these people for making my favorite worst game ever. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KineticSoul
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 29, 2006 9:55 am PT
Review:  The Good: The character creation process is perhaps the most humorous and detailed yet created 
 in a game of this type. Combat in City Of Heroes works extremely well, and unlike in other online 
 RPGs, is satisfying and compelling. Special effects from weapons and powers look fantastic and 
 seem powerful, and group combat in particular requires a degree of strategy from each member.
 
  The Bad: There is simply not enough breadth or depth to make it the first choice for players looking 
 for an extended role-playing option, and very little to convince new players that MMORPGs are 
 worth the monthly fee. For those willing to take the game at face value, though, City of Heroes 
 will still offer a month or two of old-fashioned good fun.
  Gameplay:8.0
  Graphics:8.0
  Sound:8.0
  Value:8.0
  Tilt:8.0
  Singleplayer:8.0 PvE
  Multiplayer:8.0 PvP
  
  Conclusion: 
 Anyone with even a remote interest in creating a superhero and fighting the forces of evil in a 
 persistent environment need look no further: City Of Heroes is a rip-roaring delight that should 
 satisfy even the pickiest gamers and comic book fans. My Score:8.0 Great 
::::::

::::::
UserName: goo45
Rating: 8.2
Date: Nov 1, 2006 10:44 pm PT
Review:  A great game! But it has a few disappointments: 1. Its not as heroic as I expected, meaning everyones 
 a bit stiff animation whise. 2. Graphics are a bit outdated. 3. Takes too long to level.
  
  For a few postive things: 1. I enjoyed how you could buy upgrades instead of going out and having 
 to buy a whole new game. 2. The GM's kept pretty well on track of things. 3. The online community 
 was one of the better ones. If you haven't tried it, you need to! The only reason I had to put 
 it down was because the game was a little too addictive! =D 
::::::

::::::
UserName: terryjameboy
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 3, 2009 2:36 am PT
Review:  i have 3 level 50's in this game.... this was one of the first mmorpg's i could actually reach the 
 level cap.... its not hard to get used to... and its not hard to get lost and not realize what your 
 doing.... that being said... city of heroes is not a hardcore mmorpg like age of conan or city of 
 heroes or lord of the rings or especially eve online..... its simple and fun something you can just 
 hop right into with your friends... this game doesnt really call for any particular strategy when 
 you are fighting mobs.. and you really dont have to worry about epic armor but their is enhancements 
 that will improve your powers .... either that would be range, attack, recharge or etc.... the game 
 is good if you jsut want to have fun with your friends and create a hero.... and it keeps on improving 
 month by month.... i recommand this to people thats not really hardcore when it comes to mmo's or 
 if you simply just want to start with an easy game... oh and for the people that are hardcore mmorpg 
 players... there is really NOOOOOOOOOO end gameplay like wow.... if i remembered all you do is just 
 raise influence for your costume or for more enhancements.....
  
  hopefully champions online will contribute a little more of the superhero feel 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nooby_Loki
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 2, 2006 8:01 am PT
Review:  THis game is one of the best games ever made in my eyes. You dont need to buy the City of Villains 
 why? Because u get updates! yeah it runs a little slow but its a game that is great on teh graphics 
 gives u trial ammount of time i used that up like 24/7 playing couldnt stop (had to sleep and all) 
 But when i wasnt doing something needed this was where i was i think if you like any of those cheasy 
 free to play MMO then put up the 15USD for the month it is worth it .... I liked the graphics did 
 i say they were AWSOME you get 8 charachters on each of the servers i only used one lol but it 
 was SUPERB i couldnt recomend any other game for christmass 20USD for the game 15USD for the month 
 that already is cheaper than buying another game and you and ur friends can play together just 
 dont get hooked like i am.... Stay in SChool Nooby_Loki! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lord_Pharoah
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 15, 2007 1:07 pm PT
Review:  The Gameplay System in City of Heroes is fairly simple yet deceivingly complex. The basic idea 
 is to fight enemies, secure items, and save hostages, etc, to do so you have to click or activate 
 corresponding powers from your power tray with number keys. Gameplay is very active and energetic 
 solo or teamed, and team PvP is a MAJOR thrill (especially at the highest level on test server) 
 I participate in a PvP SG on the test server/training room nd it is frequent and really amazing 
 The graphics in City of Heroes look splendid, the realism and detail is great, but not distracting 
 to the level where you cant focus on the gameplay. The physics system, which is fairly new, looks 
 wonderful on any level and superb with the Ageia PhysX cards.
  
  Some of the sound effects can be TERRIBLY annoying, but for the most part the music in-game is 
 very catchy, I find myself wasting time going back and forth over areas that trigger music just 
 to hear them again (Ill leave that up to you to decide whether or not thats a bad or good thing 
 :p)
  
  When I think of all the games Ive ever played I DEFINITELY have gotten the most bang for my buck 
 from City of Heroes, its definitely worth the 15 dollars a month, and I see myself staying with 
 it till the end!
  
  The difficulty in the game tends to balance itself out, its hard to classify a game like this, 
 because every character, every power handles different, some are made to support others can cant 
 solo well, but when they combine with another player they can destroy anything.
  
  I put 4 hours or more for the learning curve for this game because while the controls are quickly 
 mastered in 30 minutes or so, you dont really master everything your character has/can offer, 
 you can keep improving and improving and improving, also as you gain more powers over time combat 
 becomes more complex, so to me, with each character you are continuously in a learning curve. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pcook007
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 22, 2006 9:25 am PT
Review:  This game is fenomenal! The graphics are great the gameplay is wicked theres hundreds of costumes 
 and things and updates all the time for more costumes and powers! ITs a reall mmorpg that you must 
 buy it is great playing dimension wars and all the other things, and if you dont think you could 
 be a hero buy city of villains its the same apart from you play as a villain on the villains side! 
 Get it now and become the ultimate superhero!!! You get tons of things althought u have to pay 
 a monthly fee &pound;4.95 but u get 2months free ! ITS a real amazing game So buy it now! at amazon. co. uk 
 for only &pound;9.97!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Creed-Me-39
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 15, 2006 12:25 am PT
Review:  Well, Let me start by saying There's nothing different about this title, It's just another MMO 
 that seems Diffrent.
  
  Super Powers, Yes, Yes, It's true you get super powers, But they suck until higher levels, You 
 can get Flight, Jumping, Super Speed ETC But, At lowers levels you get: Slow-As-Crap-Flying, Not-So-High-Jumping, 
 And of course, Punches, And other random crap substituting for Super Speed, Now this bugged me 
 at first because i'm a slow... Level-Up-Er, But maybe you can Level up Faster then Jason Giambi 
 can cram steroids up his *** , If that's the case, You have alot going for you.
  
  Character Customization, Indeed! The character creation in this, Is the best to say the Least, 
 There has to be over at least 160+ parts that you can put on your pimped out.. Super Pimp, And 
 as you do more and more missions you unlock even more pimp stuff.
  
  Graphics, The graphical goodness that goes into every nook and cranny of the world Isn't so great, 
 The graphics on character models however.. Are quite purrty.. So the all and all the graphics are 
 good enough.
  
  Gameplay, Well.. Like i said in the begging this game only seems different, The gameplay is like 
 any other MMO, Except instead of shooting fireballs out of a stick, It pops out of your hand, You 
 have a Sword, But it's made of Flame, You have Shiny Armor, But it's not shiny at all it's Rock 
 Armor, Or maybe you like archers, TO BAD, You get a High Tech bow, SO HA, So, The gameplay ends 
 up like Every Other MMO, Except your running around in Spandex.
  
  All and all, I did enjoy this game, You'll probably enjoy it to, So go on, Buy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pnjjelly
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 2, 2006 3:41 pm PT
Review:  City of Heroes is an overall great game. This game will keep you busy for at least. I have this 
 game and i still keep playing this game and I have had it for a year. The graphics in this game 
 are pretty good. Although the missions in the game get very repetitive, but you get different story 
 arcs which can lead you to different contacts. Many people may say this game is a little childish, 
 but this game is great for all ages. To make this review short and sweet, if you would like to 
 fight crime, team up with other players, have a game that will last you a life time, then this 
 is the game for you. Also this game has an infinate ability to customize everything about your 
 character for the costume to the powers you unlock along the way. No two heroes are alike (unless 
 they did it on purpose) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ogdenous
Rating: 7.5
Date: Aug 31, 2006 8:05 am PT
Review:  I started playing this some time ago and left within 6 months. The game was incredibly fun for 
 the 1st few month until we got to higher levels and notice all the building are the same and the 
 missions seem the same. It would be nice if it was more open (less zone and larger play field) 
 with more variety in building and maybe open building where you see out window and see people outside 
 instead of loading into a new group zone. The villans add on was a great idea but I felt is should 
 have been made free since you are already paying a high monthly fee. Would be nice to have a Guild 
 Website where you can communicate with your guild in game and out of game. Maybe in time this will 
 catch on to me again if they make these changes. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Martez-
Rating: 8.6
Date: Aug 26, 2006 8:50 am PT
Review:  "First I want to make clear that I don't like comic's. In fact I never finished one of those books. 
 So I won't be looking from that perspective"
  
  City of Heroes makes you wonder how they could bring such a city to life. Making you're own hero (ine) ? 
 Saving the city? Wow.. sounds nice but can they make it real? YES, let me explain.
  
  The most important part of this game is making you're character at the beginning. First you couldn't 
 change his/her appearance after the creation but they changed that later, so you won't have a hard 
 pressure on you for making the best there is. The character creation is very wide, I made about 
 10 chars over my time and all looked very different. You start by choosing your gender, class, 
 powers and looks (I even saw a character from Half-life in the game) . This is always fun, you end 
 up having multiple characters who all have different paths.
  
  The classes are very important because this game is mostly team-based. There are 5 main classes: 
 Defender, Controller, Tank, Scrapper and Blaster. The role of these classes is very interesting. 
 The names say a lot but here is an example. A tank runs in at first and taunts the room, then he 
 makes sure that almost every enemy targets him so the rest can attack them. He is an enemy controller 
 and the base of a team. His job is to die first. Of course tanks may choose their style but this 
 is the best way. So a team has to work together in order to finish the mission.
  
  The interface is good and it has many features. The latest I've seen was "Global chat". This makes 
 is possible to see what your friends are doing, even when they are on a different server or character. 
 You can team up and to each other's missions and you can make Supergroups to gather people in a 
 bigger scale. Supergroup's can make a base, attack other bases, do supergroup missions and so on. 
 A lot to do there.. The most weird and yet good thing about the interface is that you don't really 
 have an inventory. If you want to change your characters appearance you go to a tailor. If you 
 want to improve your attacks you use your enhancements. You don't have those stalls in the city 
 because people want to sell stuff. Money doesn't even exist, it's all based on fame points. If 
 you clear a mission you get fame points.
  
  The gameplay is very nice. I just love to go on a mission with a team you created and battle! Everyone 
 would just do his job in the team. The battle system is weird at the beginning. You target a enemy 
 and pick a move you want to attack him with. I won't tell much more since it's better to find out 
 yourself.
  
  The powers represent your hero (ine) . You can choose between Primary powers and Secondary powers. 
 For example if you choose to be a Scrapper (damage dealer) , you have options like: Archery, Assault 
 Rifle, Electrical Blast, Energy Blast, Fire Blast, Ice Blast and Sonic Blast. You can upgrade you're 
 powers with Enhancers.
  
  The missions where a lot of fun. There are numerous missions you can choose: Kill 5 of these type, 
 clear that base, save hostages and a lot more. There are even "Giants" to kill in the city or outskirts.
 
  
  The graphics are great. The city is put together nice and the battles are eye-candy. The sound 
 is not bad but I muted it to listen to music while gaming so I can't tell much about that.
  
  The community was one of the best I've seen in an mmorpg. Almost everyone was nice and helpfull. 
 Sometimes even a level 50 (highest) helped you on a mission you couldn't handle. The age of the 
 gamers reaches from 10 to 60 years old. Sometimes I was teaming with people that had children teaming 
 with them. The support worked hard to make the game bug free and were there fast. When I had a 
 bug, I e-mailed, got a reply and a GM in less then 20 min.
  
  In the end I was suprised by this game. It didn't last that long with me ( I have that a lot) but 
 many of the players I know are playing it for 2 years. Maybe it was because it's all about fighting. 
 Some players do other things in the game (costume contests, emotes) but for me it seems like preparing 
 to fight, fight and feast of the fight.
  
  Good:
  - You can fly!
  - Good battles
  - Nice community
  - Great character creation
  - Variety of missions available
  
  Bad:
 
  - Not a lot to do besides fighting
  - Sometimes you need a lot of humor to connect to other players appearance
  - After a while the 
 missions get boring because your having deja vou 
::::::

::::::
UserName: september_basic
Rating: 6.5
Date: Oct 9, 2007 1:56 am PT
Review:  On the outset, I want to honestly suggest to you that you wait til DC or Marvel comes out with 
 a superhero MMORPG. This game, Freedom Force, and quite a few other superhero games are sadly lacking 
 in the brains department, are very linear, and appear to be selfish ways of designers to rake in 
 cash without demanding much independent thought of their own.
  
  City of Heroes permits an incredibly small set of options in character customization, so few options 
 that since thousands of people play you can run across the same superpowers and the same costumes 
 (with only color as a variation) over and over again despite the fact that reviewers constantly 
 acclaim its wide variety.
  
  In fact, superhero powers are so redundant that all characters using mind control on a single-person 
 hypnosis effect will say exactly the same thing, gesture exactly the same way, and the same color 
 light will appear. If this happened in comicbooks to the extent it happens in City of Heroes, comicbooks 
 would not sell.
  
  Also, every mission is pretty much the same: the heroes run inside a mission, beat up bad guys, 
 and are victorious or beaten. There is no attempt to really, really adapt the complex situations 
 appearing in comicbooks into the game. It's even simpler than four color comics of the Golden Age 
 and lacks the wide range of difference that appeared in those comicbooks.
  
  In fact, six squares with seperate colors are all still squares. A rectangle that is red is not 
 very different from a red square. This is what City of Heroes permits: a red square, a red rectangle.
 
  
  This game plays like it was supposed to be an ipod game or a background function game. There is 
 not much choice, not much intelligence in the design, and notably most of the players fall into 
 four sets: bullies, sex-fiends, bored undereducated folk, and people who are just trying the game 
 out for a few seasons without figuring out how foolish it is yet.
  
  Sorry if this sounds like a wild complaint, but I began playing this game back when Behemoth were 
 in Perez Park, there was no Dark Astoria, and the game world was much smaller. I do not like the 
 way the game developed and can only suggest you do not buy this game, suggest that you do not trust 
 Cryptic nor its employee (not to hire nor purchase games they've designed) , and suggest that you 
 treat any subsidiary company of NCSoft as very likely to be corrupt, unpleasant, and not the sort 
 of people who should design computer games but rather who should design their own ethics. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: -Keltic-
Rating: 8.6
Date: Nov 21, 2006 7:59 am PT
Review:  I started playing about a year after the game was released, and I believe its on its 3rd year being 
 online. The game just gets better and better, NCsoft always puts out a new issue every couple of 
 month, adding new maps, new abilites, new costume parts, or just to fix some bugs (the little that 
 there are) . If your a comic book fan or someone thats into superheroes you should already have 
 this game, if not, stop what your doing run down to the video game store and buy it, you wont be 
 disappointed. As for the graphics, they can be alittle disappointing which isn't that bad for someone 
 who doesn't have a high-end system, that allowing them to play the game without having to upgrade 
 there system. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: StCroixPSOP
Rating: 8.8
Date: Aug 22, 2006 8:48 am PT
Review:  Ok I own and play the game so Im not going to be biased. I have been playing the game for some 
 time now since my friends got me into it. Here is the premise; After you get the game you can choose 
 from around 12-14 servers to make your characters in. Each server allows you to hold 6 heroes (if 
 you bought CoV you can hold 12) . When you get past this screen you can choose from 7 classes (2 
 are epic classes unlocked after reaaching max lvl, 50) These classes are.....
  
  -Tanker is an irresistible force combined with an immovable object. This class can take and dish 
 out all sorts of damage. The Tanker is not totally invulnerable, but his skills allow the other 
 classes to play their parts, too. The Tanker is a devastating hand to hand combatant, and ranks 
 second only to the Scrapper in sheer melee power. He possesses some ranged abilities, though far 
 below those of the Blaster or the Defender. 
  Hit Points: High
  Damage: Medium 
  Primary Power Category - Defense
  Secondary Power Category - Melee
  
  -Scrapper. No lone 
 criminal wants to cross paths with a Scrapper, because odds are that only the Scrapper is going 
 to walk away. Ferocity and skill make the Scrapper master of hand to hand combat. However, Scrappers 
 do not have any ranged attacks, so they rely on the other classes to help in battles requiring 
 long-range punch. The Scrapper is resilient, though, and after the Tanker, the best class at withstanding 
 damage. 
  Hit Points: Medium
  Damage: High 
  Primary Power Category - Melee
  Secondary Power Category - Defense 
  
  -Defender, is a long-range support specialist. This 
 Archetype is effective with ranged attacks (though not quite on par with the Blaster) , but the 
 Defender's true worth shines in another area. Defenders are the premier helpers in the game - they 
 are the best at strengthening their teammate's abilities (buffing) and weakening foes (debuffing) . 
 They aren't built for lengthy hand to hand combat, though they aren't fragile, either. The Defender 
 needs to keep an eye both on his teammates and the enemy - in order to see which requires his powerful 
 attention first!
  Hit Points: Low
  Damage: Low 
  Primary Power Category - Buff
  Secondary Power Category - Ranged
  
  -Controller, is at the same time the weakest and yet the 
 most powerful of the archetypes. The Controller has few offensive attacks and possesses the fewest 
 hit points. But the Controller has access to a range of powers that no one else has: the Control 
 power sets. Armed with these powers, a Controller can affect the behavior of villains - from freezing 
 them in place to routing them away. Armed with such abilities, the Controller is the backbone of 
 many groups involved in large-scale battles - but the Controller depends upon his teammates for 
 protection. 
  Hit Points: Low
  Damage: Low 
  Primary Power Category - Control
  Secondary Power Category - Buff
  
  -Blaster is an offensive juggernaut. Whether up close or 
 afar, he can deal out tremendous amounts of damage. In comparison to the other Archetypes, the 
 Blaster is by far the most damaging to the enemy. But the Blaster is quite fragile; this class 
 has relatively few hit points. Blaster heroes must be on their guard before getting into combat; 
 while their immense power can overcome most foes, alone they are quite vulnerable. The Blaster 
 can turn the tide of a conflict, but they need their friends to help them succeed.
  Hit Points: Low
  Damage: High 
  Primary Power Category - Ranged
  Secondary Power Category 
 - Support 
  
  Graphics- depending on what type of computer you have they can either be really beautiful (turn 
 up particle count as a blaster fires off a shot and you will know what I mean) , but if not it is 
 best to turn down the graphics settings and only turn them up when making a new character (cuz 
 trying to make a good one when everything looks like it was put through the was is not very good) . 
 Lower graphics also mean less lag, which is good in high traffic areas like Atlas park.
  
  Sound- Diverse background music plays as you enter a new part of the city, and a different song 
 will play as you enter new sections of the zone. Electricity crackles, the woosh of air past yor 
 ears as you fly or take off into a super speed run all the while leaving a fire trail behind you, 
 a faint "bamf" as you teleport. The thud of a sledge hammer hitting your skull, the crack of a 
 pistol, the chanting of evil mages. Very good sound, tho it does cut off occasionaly.
  
  Players- It all depends on who you are dealing with, sometimes you will get veteran players talking 
 to you only to be drowned in a see of "noob" talk on broadcast. Generally helpful and polite, many 
 people will help you out in a pinch. Just dont make yourself out to be a noob in front of other 
 noobs.
  
  Game- Not a lot of end game content, but they are fixing that with upcoming Issues (patches) . Oh 
 ya, all the updates and patches are free. The devs always have something good for the players in 
 store. You may reach lvl 50 and find out it is as rewarding a experience to help out lower lvl 
 people or "farm" (do mish over and over to gain xp and money)
  
  PvP- Im not a big pvp fan myself, but my friend has a long running arean record of many wins. Lots 
 of potential in these zones. Not only can you fight the villains but you can have objectivces to 
 do like fire off a missile at their base. Not to mention that you get 1.5 times xp for doing pvp 
 missions. 
  
  All in all it is a very fun game that can be a bit repetitive and some lvl can be a bit much to 
 get out of (once you get to lvl 32 you will find out) . I highly recomend this game to anyone who 
 has ever read a comic, pretended they were a super hero, or just wants to have a good time with 
 a bunch of strange people wearing tights. 
  
  -Suke (Freedom server, SG- The Unrefined )
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bloodbaro950
Rating: 9.2
Date: Aug 13, 2006 7:05 pm PT
Review:  This game is great for everyone from the averge gamer looking for something to play and enjoy to 
 the lazy comic book fan who lives in his mothers basement .... you know. It has a solid storyline 
 and the best character creator I have ever seen and with the cogame City of Villain you get pretty 
 desent PVP. This was the first MMORPG and I would recommend it. for anyone who wants a good time 
 and enjoy good multiplayer action.
  
  Filler Filler Filler Filler Filler Filler Filler Filler Filler Filler Filler Filler Filler Filler 
 Filler Filler Filler Filler Filler Filler Filler Filler Filler Filler Fi Filler ller Filler Filler 
 Filler Filler Filler Filler Filler Filler Filler Filler Fille Filler r 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bluespike000
Rating: 9.3
Date: Aug 5, 2006 1:22 pm PT
Review:  When I joined the MMO genre this was the kind of game I was looking for, immersive and fun are 
 two thing I can say for it at least. I've constantly found myself leaving to check out new MMO's 
 and everytime I find myself coming back for more. Even WoW could not hold my creative attention 
 like this. Dosn't help WoW was overun by kids either though. 
  
  The character creation is the most unique I have seen, rivaled only by the original SWG avatar 
 creation. Many different types of heroes allow for a unique play that will suite your style. Disapointed 
 by some of the combonations you couldn't make but they did a good job. Definatly a game worth trying 
 out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: btpi91
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jul 30, 2006 11:12 pm PT
Review:  Do you ever get tired of slaying orcs, fighting trolls, or finding random items for quests? Have 
 you tried looking for another rpg that has a different setting, a different idea? Well look no 
 further because City of Heroes is a nice new break from the old. In City of Heroes there is no 
 armor or weapon hunting to perfect your character. You customize your char's costume with hundreds 
 of accecories that dont effect your character at all. You can finally find something that makes 
 you look good (or just plain goofy) without worrying how this might weaken your character. Through 
 past game updates there hav been plenty of powers added. You can be a blaster which attacks from 
 range with fire, ice, arrows, rifles, or even your own voice. You can become a defender which is 
 the main support "archetype" where you can either buff your teammates with healing, or temporary 
 attack boosts, or you can debuff your enemies by poisoning them or lowering their own attack ability. 
 You can be a scrapper which is your main melee fighter with plenty of powers including spines, 
 swords, or just plain fists. You can be a tanker which is yes, you guessed it, the main tank class 
 in the game that has an assortment of abilites to withstand the enemy force while distracting them 
 so your team can mop them up. And of course the unique controller which can imobolize enemies, 
 put them to sleep, or even make themselves attack each other. You can create supergroups which 
 is the equivalent of a guild or clan. There are plenty of missions you can do which actually lead 
 up to the corruption of a gang leader or rescuing important citizens. The game has an easy learning 
 curve, fun, and you can either go solo if you like or rely on allies (unlike Lineage 2 where the 
 main focus is PvP and teaming up with others) . PvP is also an element later added into the game. 
 You can face off against other players playing City of Villains and complete special missions that 
 affect the enemy or give you special temporary powers. The game is full of unique enemies from 
 an alien race from a failed invasion to the city's regular gangs and mobs. But of course like any 
 game there are some setbacks. You do have to pay a monthly fee of $15 to play and it comes with 
 an automatic downloader that automatically puts in patches and updates which can be useful but 
 may take away a certain aspect of the game you liked. But overall this game is great break from 
 many medieval based rpg's and the updates usually just make the game better and better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: achilles01
Rating: 7.3
Date: Jul 27, 2006 9:20 am PT
Review:  City of Heroes puts you in the shoes of your own custom tailored superhero, and you save the day 
 by fighting villainy on the streets of Paragon City. The game delivers a fun and new playing experience, 
 but you might find that fun experience may become old in a couple of weeks. Spending your hard 
 earned cash on a $15 monthly fee might not seem that appealing to some players.
  
  City of Heroes has a very in depth and interesting character creation system. The game really makes 
 it fun to create a superhero, and this is where the players imagination will really shine through. 
 Expect to spend upward of 30 minutes creating a character. COH has five different hero classes, 
 each one varying quite differently from the other. The main classes are Blaster, Controller, Defender, 
 Scrapper, and Tanker. Each class has their own sets of skills and powers, which differ greatly. 
 Alongside the character classes is the characters origin. This decides what enhancements the character 
 will receive, and what types of villain groups will be encountered the most throughout the game. 
 The next choices to be made are picking a set of primary and secondary powers. Whether it be an 
 archer or assault rifle for a Blaster class, or have ice or fire control for a Controller class. 
 The physique of the character will be chosen next. After those steps have been completed, it is 
 time to create a costume. This is where imagination and creativity come in. City of Heroes literally 
 has a billion different customization options, which make it a truly unique game in this sense. 
 A hero may look like a favored comic book hero, or a one off original. The chances are very slim 
 two characters will look alike in this game.
  
  
  City of Heroes has an interesting graphical look to it. It is realistically modeled, but also has 
 a cartoon art style going on. The cartoon art style adds to the overall look and feel of being 
 a superhero, and is a definite plus. The environments are very impressive, and range from tall 
 skyscrapers to gang infested ghettos and parks. The environments seem vibrant and populated with 
 cars and civilians for the most part, and give the sense of life throughout. The graphics really 
 add that needed punch to the game, and the unique art style helps add to the players enjoyment. 
 As for system requirements, a decent system is required to run it without hassle.
  
  City of Heroes does not have a real story to it. There are various contacts throughout the game, 
 where the player will receive their missions. These contacts are specific to the characters class 
 and origin. The player will advance from contact to contact, after they have completed the required 
 missions. These missions go from fighting gangs on the streets of Paragon City, to rescuing a doctor 
 from man eating zombies in the sewers. At first, these missions are fun, but get repetitive quite 
 quickly. Most missions are made up of save this person, battle these creatures, or retrieve this. 
 The mission types are what make City of Heroes so linear and this is one of the major downsides 
 to the game. The missions can be sometimes tiring due to their repetitive nature. The combat in 
 the game is smooth, and is easy to get accustomed to. The on screen display bars feel very streamlined, 
 and do not distract from the gameplay. The controls are well laid out, so there should be no problems. 
 Combat can be really fun, especially when fighting with other heroes. The game does support parties 
 of up to seven other players, and these groups can complete missions together or fight baddies 
 on the streets. Combat is one of COHs strong points, and is a fun new experience, especially with 
 the use of super powers.
  
  City of Heroes offers the player a plethora of powers for their character, and each is specific 
 to the characters class and origin. Every other level, starting at levels 2,4,6,8 and so on, the 
 player receives a new power of their choice. At level 10, the choice of adding a new pool of powers 
 to your character is available. These powers range from super speed, flying, or leaping great heights. 
 These new powers make it much easier to navigate around the city, but become inactive when you 
 are fighting enemies. The biggest disappointment about the game is the upgrading of your superhero. 
 Upgrades are chopped down to little enhancements received by buying them from stores or collecting 
 them off of defeated villains. They are used to permanently increase the effectiveness of your 
 super powers, but do not do anything else. You can also buy temporary power ups called inspirations. 
 These can also be bought, or received after defeating an enemy. They are used to increase health, 
 strength, power and so on for a short amount of time. As for the levels in between gaining powers, 
 the player receives an extra slot for 2 of their powers to place more enhancements in. Because 
 of its lack of features, like item drops and upgrades, COH feels stripped down. 
  
  In short, City of Heroes is not a game for your average dungeon exploring, magic using player. 
 This game appeals to a very niche market, or even just a casual market looking for a new experience. 
 Overall, the game is a solid and fun MMO that offers players a new experience, but that experience 
 may wear out quickly. For some, this game may justify its $15 monthly fee, but for others it may 
 not. But with the first month of play being free, COH is definitely worth a try.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Stephen149
Rating: 6.2
Date: Jul 18, 2006 7:48 pm PT
Review:  The thing that really turned me off, was that they don't tell you where to go for the quests. During 
 the turorial, it pointed you to where you had to go, so everything was easy and straight forward, 
 once I got to the next town, my quests weren't pointing me in the right direction anymore. Basicly, 
 I got sick of having to ask people where to go all the time. 
  
  The fact that you can; t change what your character looks like is kind of lame. you should be able 
 to upgrade your guy at higher levels to make him look cooler or something.
  
  The graphics are pretty good for its time, but for today, they pretty much suck.
  
  it's an 
 alright game, but WoW is way better. in WoW, you actually get a decent explanation on what to do. 
 and there is items and such. im stickin to WoW, but you can go try CoH if you want. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MrKittyCat1234
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jul 17, 2006 10:29 am PT
Review:  The Game is a great multiplayer filled with lots of people and amazeing graphics. Not only is it 
 online but you can also do missions. Or if you prefer you can do random beating on villians. Even 
 better if you want you could Do player verses player. when you create your character you can make 
 him look anyway you desire. Also select his powers like super strength or flying. I highly suggest 
 this game to anyone who enjoys multiplayer and try city of villians if you liked City of heros 
 Or instead of trying city of heros city of villians is seprate not a expansion so if you have both 
 their might be seprate fees. The monthly online fees are about fifteen american dollars a month. 
 Also check their website for information on Contests.
  
  Happy Gameing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: calibanvov
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jul 14, 2006 7:11 am PT
Review:  I love the character guilding, the graphics are well done, and the game is very well polished. 
 The lag usually isnt that bad.
  
  The action is fun and the powers are unique.
  
  The community has a mix of all types. Good and bad.
  
  Leveling goes at a good pace till around 
 lvl 24, Then it slows WAY down.
  
  After some time of playing this game however, things become a bit of a grind and theres not much 
 complexity or varying things to do to keep it interesting.
  
  My history with the game. Played it for 4 months when it first came out and enjoyed it alot. Then 
 quit, came back a year later and still enjoying it for the past few months and may leave again 
 for a year.
  
  The game is good, just no variety in gameplay.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Antiman90
Rating: 7.6
Date: Jul 6, 2006 5:28 pm PT
Review:  City of Heroes is a great concept. A MMORPG about creating and developing a superhero is intriguing 
 even to someone who isn't a fan of MMORPGs. The majority of the game has you roaming around the 
 streets of Paragon City and beating up random baddies. At the same time you can complete some short 
 quests that involve you going to an enemy hideout and beating them all up, maybe rescuing someone 
 or collecting evidence as well. The problem is that this is all the game has to offer, and any 
 initial interest a non-MMO fan gathered from the premise of the game is thrown out the window. 
 This game is a MMO at heart, and a fairly standard one at that. With a subscription fee that stands 
 at $11-$15 per month, you should research the game thoroughly before making a purchase.
  First you select your class, there are five to start out with and two to unlock when you take a 
 character up to level 50, the max in the game. Each class has its own special powers and abilities, 
 as you may have guessed. You can also select how your character got his or her powers. It could 
 be from mutation, a lab accident, from training, etc. Depending on your choice, youll get another 
 attack or ability.
  Next up is the character creation screen. The character creation in the game is deep and intuitive. 
 You can select your heros primary colors, skin tone, head shape, costume (and there are probably 
 ten subcategories in there) . The game even lets you write a brief bio of your hero, allowing you 
 to think up a back story for your character. You can also write a custom battle cry, but this amounts 
 to next to nothing as all it will do is show up in a thought bubble above your head when you use 
 it.
  Once you are done with that, you can choose to either enter Paragon City right away, or play through 
 one of the most tedious tutorials ever put into a game. The only plus to the tutorial is that it 
 guarantees you will be at level 2 by the time you enter the games world.
  Once in the world you will begin to take on quests and level up. You can meet friends online and 
 create temporary teams, all it really amounts to is youll be able to track your friends easier 
 since you cant have team quests. A more serious alternative to teams would be joining a super-group, 
 as you can visit the groups hideout.
  The game is solid, but repetitive. You go on short quests that involve you going to an enemy hideout 
 and beating them all up, maybe rescuing someone or collecting evidence as well. You can roam the 
 streets and engage random thugs for some experience points, but beyond that its nothing special. 
 Its a very repetitive formula that makes you question the value of your $35+ purchase, as that 
 covers the purchase of the game as well as one month of play.
  All in all, City of Heroes is a great idea executed well enough. I recommend you play the game 
 until you get to level 5 or so before you buy it, just to make sure the game is right for you. 
 This isnt a great MMORPG, or a great game, but its still neat to create your own superhero. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mr_nyuckles
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jun 23, 2006 7:12 am PT
Review:  This game is one of the best MMORPG's out there. With a chance to make your character look totally 
 unique, and a chance to form a background for your character, it makes you feel like your really 
 the superhero you have always wanted to be.
  
  One down side. The abilities aren't all the same power. But then again, a defender shoudn't be 
 as powerful as a tanker. But on the flip side to all that, the defender should be a good use in 
 the team, and not just the go-to guy when you need a heal.
  
  Graphics: Depending on your GC (graphics card) the graphics can be awe inspiring. These graphics 
 would put DOOM III to shame. Really. Great.
  
  Sound: Sure the sound can get annoying and you will probably have to turn down/off your sound during 
 the 50th battle with Clockwork or Ruffians, but the sound and music of this game isn't bad. The 
 music in itself is pretty good.
  
  Playability- Since you are in an MMO and you will have to advance in level and abilities, the game 
 will have you playing for hours and hours without you feeling the time spent and feeling the real 
 affects of your playing time. Sure you might be level 10 by the end of the first day, but there 
 are still 50 more levels you can get.
  
  With the addition of power-ups, enhancements and inspirations, this game lets you make the character 
 you basically want. But on the flip side, there aren't a lot of abilities you can have for your 
 character, and you will see your abilities on another character surely. But then again, all warlocks 
 in WoW have the same abilites as well.
  
  Another down side is that you barely fight anything new. The bad guys only get 'upgrades' for a 
 while, if not throughout the whole game. Sure in different places there will be about maybe five 
 different/new types of enemies to fight, but then they will start getting upgrades as well. But 
 still, a good game.
  
  The load times are lacking as well. When you think your computer crashed due to the long load time, 
 you know there has to be something going on.
  
  Grouping. You have to group. I'm sorry to say that the game wouldn't be the same if you go through 
 it alone. The missions are harder alone, and you won't advance in level nearly as fast as if you 
 were in a group. Grouping with total strangers is a must. I, for one, hate this, but then again, 
 I can't complain too badly, I get 'free' expirience. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: werewolf79
Rating: 1
Date: Jun 14, 2006 10:20 pm PT
Review:  The game started out find until the developers got stupid. Every patch since "Issue 3" has sucked 
 royally, the PvP system is horrid. The is no end-game content and is pretty blah through and through. 
 Avoid this game at all costs, same with City of Villains. The dev's have ruined a game that started 
 out with so much promise. As I said before, the only worthwhile thing that they have ever added 
 was the epic archetypes, everything else isn't even worth playing. Definately NOT worth paying 
 $15 a month to play, I wouldn't even play this game if it were free. Buyers beware!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FunnyFella101
Rating: 10
Date: May 24, 2006 7:44 am PT
Review:  I say this is the best i mean the best MMORPG I played! You have too play this game no way in the 
 world can you miss out on this game!
  
  1. Mission's are easy and fun.
  2. Alot of outfit's too make and as you turn level 20 and 30 you unlock new stuff!
  3. Easy too 
 play a monkey can play it!
  4. I love this game and thay allways do updates on it.
  5. Not alot of money just $14 that's not alot!
  
  
  I think you have to try this game out 
 whoever you are! I love This game so can you. Oh and if you are not a hero lover. Play City of Villain's. Its 
 the same game just you play as a Villain! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Silvernix
Rating: 8.6
Date: May 19, 2006 7:41 am PT
Review:  OK, let's not get into the whole opening crap. I've been reviewing game all and I'm tired. So let's 
 start from the go.
  
  Ok, First off. Create a Character ..... wow, at Launch, it was massive, and now, with more added 
 content. It's... well,.... very massive. You can litterary create almost any custome... original 
 or otherwise. If you can't find the custome that YOU like. You'll find something better.
  
  Ok, Gameplay..... It's more of an action MMO. The UI is different then that of a normal MMO. No 
 more auto attack for you.
  
  Your avatar grows with every 2 or 4 levels. You get to choose which powers you want out of the 
 catagory that you set out before.
  
  
  Graphics wise is good too. I played on a very weak Geforce MX 200 32 mems and it was very good. 
 So, needless to say, when I got my Radean 9550 with 256vmem. I was impressed. It's fun how the 
 city comes alive with cars, people, litter just to name a few
  
  City of Heroes is good for any people who like the JL or the show JLU or any super heros for that 
 matter..
  
  
  
  Over all
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: FrostyGoat
Rating: 7.8
Date: May 16, 2006 5:15 pm PT
Review:  The best part of this game would have to of been the charcter creation (base building too) . Tons 
 of ideas that could take you hours tinkering around with the perfect look. Something that basically 
 no other MMO will offer you along with tons of charcter diversity. The amount of CD alone sets 
 it apart from many MMO's. 
  
  The combat system was also very well done, nuff said. Great power animations, enemys, control. 
 The combat was just fun. However by the time you get much past twenty most people would agree that 
 you fly straghit into a brick wall doing 120MPH+. Exp is cut back by an insane amount starting 
 around level sixteen and by the time you hit twenty the fun just dies for alot. Grinding isn't 
 that fun all there is to it. For any casusal gamer, this game is not for you. It can and will take 
 you several days/weeks if your lucky before advancing in level when your trying to nab the last 
 few levels.
  
  Simply put this game is pretty much a hardcore grind. Once you get past level twenty you will also 
 find obtaining new powers dosn't come very dang often as it will take a few days or longer sometimes 
 before you obtain a new power. Getting one new power for your power pools dosn't do much towards 
 increasing the gameplay either except for the first half hour to a hour after you get it. Then 
 it's back to the same old grind over and over again, in the same old cave or office building over 
 and over. 
  
  The game can run very well when in teams or when you solo, though some classes can solo while others 
 can't. Teaming and having a fun clan that talks, helps each other out, and does base raids, will 
 find the grinding to be a bit easier to bare with most people. 
  
  The fact that there isn't much depth past the combat and charcter creation will bum alot out too. 
 No crafting, no inventory (besides picking up enchaments to power up your powers and inspirations (provides 
 bonuses to this or that) ) , and no story for alot of people. What I mean for alot of people is the 
 fact that you have to talk to so and so before you out level the story arc. For those who have 
 tooken extra measures to make sure they grab all the story arcs say the story is pretty well writen.
 
  
  If you don't mind grinding or you like it, I suggest getting this game!!! To you other people I 
 suggest getting it only if you can find it for a few bucks somehow, or a 14 day free trail card. 
 Alot of people I know that didn't care for it much had enough of the grinding with the 14 day free 
 trail card. This game and CoV is one of those were you love it or hate it really.
  
  The game lasted me the three months it did was because I had alot of fun creating new toons nonstop 
 aka altcoholic, trying out the many, many different combinations to the different classes and different 
 power set builds. The game is full of charcter diversity and tons of it! It's also updated alot 
 and has alot of work put in by the Devs. 
  
  Now my head hurts writing this review, and wouldn't mind getting back to playing City of Heroes/Villains 
 cousin Auto Assault! If you like grinding or don't mind it you should like this game. If you can't 
 stand it then you best be careful. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shadowsoul97
Rating: 8.8
Date: May 13, 2006 8:18 am PT
Review:  City of Heroes is a mmorpg set in Paragon City, a city full of super heroes. The game is comic 
 book themed/inspired. You play as a new hero who must fight crime like any good hero should.
  
  First off, character customization. Unless you plan to make to dress like someone else in the 
 game, odds are you won't find anyone else that looks like you. There is so much character customization, 
 it's not even funny. CoH defiantly gets points for this.
  
  Once you get in the game, though, players will except missions and fight gangs, cults, mutated 
 creatures, robots, zombies and who knows what else. Missions usually have you going into a warehouse 
 or office and fighting all the enemies in there. Maybe disarming a bomb along the way. Either that 
 or you hit the streets and take down a few baddies harassing the citizens. The missions in CoH 
 vary and are fun and quick to complete. There are also Task Force. Task Force are a chain of missions 
 you complete in a team of eight players. They usually take a large amount of time, but after you 
 win, you are rewarded with a badge saying that you have one and a high level enhancement.
  
  Enhancements are things that are used to increase the power of your... er... powers. Inspirations 
 are used to give you a quick health boost and such, like a potion would in games such as WoW. Influence 
 is the currency in CoH. It is used to purchase enhancements and inspirations. It can also be used 
 at Icon. Icon is a tailor store where you can change you costume after you've created your character.
 
  
  And finally, powers. Every time you level up you have to go a trainer. Trainers let you learn more 
 powers every other level. At the other level, you gain more slots to put enhancements in. You have 
 your main powers and your secondary powers, and they vary as to what you are (scrapper, tanker, 
 defender, controller or blaster)
  
  All in all, CoH is very addictive and easy to play. I suggest it to anyone willing to play an MMO. 
 Good luck, and have fun in Paragon City! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jack_the_jackal
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 16, 2006 7:24 am PT
Review:  Though City of Heroes is published as an RPG it is more of a massive online mobgrinding game. The 
 odd part is that it actually works. My initial fears sbusided as i came to the character generator 
 screen. An amazing amount of work has been put into creating enough bits to make every character 
 truly unique. The amount of littel customizations available is even expanded regularly as patches 
 are added to the game. The characters are divided into broad classes that pretty much describes 
 what they are good at ie, the tanker is a mighty fine tank, the blaster is quite the good person 
 at balsting people away at range an so on. This makes for a very intuitive character generatoin 
 and is very helpful for the later parts of the game when you want to assemble a team, as it is 
 very easy to see who you should contact and thus minimizes the amount of time spent trying to find 
 teammates and leaving more time for the essential: defeating villains and henchmen. Though it is 
 possible to run around alone and grind random mobs it is really in team missions that the game 
 comes to its right. The missions are diverse and all follow an overall plotline, though most players 
 I know just skip this and completes the mission. Personally I think this is a shame as Cryptic 
 Studios really has done quite an amount of work to give the missions the appropriate feel that 
 you would expect from a superhero cartoon. The community of the game is generally friendly and 
 good humored. One of the best examples that spring to mind is a group wating to do one of the prolonged 
 missions called "Taskforce missions". As people cannot join the team one the mission is underway 
 it is vitally important that all participants are able to stay connected during the entire mission, 
 As the already found members began to grow bored during the wait one of them initiated a game of 
 tag. This quickly caught up people throughout the entire zone and within minutes all was forgot 
 of gaining levels.
  All in all the game is absolutely awesome if you are looking to release your inner hero, and it 
 doesn't make it worse if your inner child tags along. Though the game isnn't deeper that other 
 MMO's out there, it is definitely one of the most enjoyable because of the good humored nature 
 of it all 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lmollea
Rating: 7.6
Date: May 11, 2006 7:40 am PT
Review:  I played COH just some time now, but I must say that the first hours addiction has left the feeling 
 that there's too much repetition around.
  Missions are hard enough and push people to gather in teams. Mission have a certain way to scale 
 according to the people that does them (number of enemies changes according to level and number 
 of people entering the mission) , so it's absolutely awesome when you do a mission with many people 
 (especially higher level than you) .
  Gameplay is varied (archetypes and power sets give out a good deal of customization and variation) 
 and costume/avatar editing is simply beautiful.
  Apart from this, I suggest highly having at least 1GB ram. COH is quite memory-hungry (but not 
 CPU and GPU) and 512MB will slow down loading sequences and sometime playing also. GPU requirements 
 are not excessive (compared to today's latest beasts such as Oblivion or Doom4) so you can play 
 in good resolution (recommended 1024x768 or higher or else interface will be cluttered and chat 
 screen won't have enough space) .
  Overcrowded areas tend to slow down if internet connection has high latency time, though bandwidth 
 requirement is quite low.
  Overall score says that you can have some fun, that if you like you can entertain yourself for 
 a while, but the monthly fee may discourage some people after a month of two after seeing that 
 repetition is around the corner. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dinghy_Dog
Rating: 8.2
Date: May 6, 2006 1:25 pm PT
Review:  :Good Idea:
  The super hero creation is unreal! You can create almost any super hero you can imagine.
  Lots 
 of easy missions to obtain for those beginners and a load of harder missions for people looking 
 for Super Groups.
  Feels like a real comic book world. Extra cool!
  
  :Bad Idea:
  The power system feels a little weak with a lack of options.
  A lack of guild options. I figured 
 they'd have a Super Base or something but it just feels pretty empty on that.
  A bit repetitive at the beginning and you may lose interest before the month is up.
  
  :Overall:
 
  A reasonable priced MMORPG with a lot of good options to keep you coming back for more. With 
 a blue Hulk running around, a cigar smokin' Wolverine, and a flying Superman, how can you go wrong? 
 It's clearly one of the best in the MMORPG world. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rapidspeed
Rating: 8.7
Date: Apr 25, 2006 1:45 am PT
Review:  City of Heroes is my favourite MMORPG because of it's superb gamplay experience and enjoyable missions 
 which other online players can help you with. 
  
  Creating a Hero - There are so many choices of clothes and faces or masks you wish for your dream 
 superhero. You can choose which type of power your superhero can have and his/her/hulk can have.
 
  
  Fighting in Paragon City - The gamplay is the greatest thing it's so fun and you never get bored 
 of it with so many amounts of powers youre hero can receive to fight for justice.
  
  Leveling up - Each time you level up you can do certain missions and go to new areas. Once you 
 level up you can either get a new power or upgrade an old one.
  
  Weak point - City of Heroes is a-bit repetitive and can get frustrating due to huge upgrades which 
 could take and hour or so.
  
  *** You have to pay additional fees after buying it *** 
::::::

::::::
UserName: charlie345
Rating: 8.3
Date: Apr 13, 2006 3:34 pm PT
Review:  fun online game okay to start you play a super hero in a town of herosand now lets go back to the 
 with the make you own super hero and powers is genuis and it is online to that incredible but you 
 dont get to fight other peole super heroes that would of been fun all you get to fight is bad guys 
 in the server but as you play your character grows on you and it sorta feel like it is yours and 
 it is fun to get a bunch of freinds and just go for some baddies the gameplay is crips but the 
 powers you have are sorta stuck to you and not many moves with the so that is bad and then there 
 is the battles wich are funt to see your created character fight all in the streets being a hero 
 the grapihcs it a pc game of course it has good grapics and all the moves look to see to and of 
 course you person looks good to the osund is not so good i did not like it so much 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bczican015
Rating: 9.1
Date: Apr 9, 2006 12:53 pm PT
Review:  City of Heroes by PlayNC software offers a one of a kind MMORPG experience. By combining the comic 
 book feel of every little boys dream with the massive and immense feel of a role playing game. 
 City of Heroes has shown more creativity over the years, making new appearance options, power options, 
 and even some social gathering places for its players.
  
  The graphics in this game are some of the best in the MMORPG genre, presenting beautiful visuals 
 and animation effects that leave the player completely hooked on the sights. The cityscape is stunning, 
 as well as functional. The city moves as it should, pedestrians walk the streets, continuously 
 getting into trouble with villains. As well as cars driving around the roads of the huge cites.
 
  
  The sounds of this game are very well done. Each power has its own sound effect and chime. As well 
 as the many emotes available in this game. However, the sound effects do get kindof obnoxious when 
 in a setting where the whole team is using powers at once. Leaving you to turn down, or turn off 
 your speakers.
  
  The gameplay is superb, easy to learn, and familiarize with. The flow of the game is perfect. Players 
 are able to go anywhere, and do just about anything to the environment. The new physics engine 
 allows for a rag doll effect on a players enemies. Other players are friendly, and helpful. Giving 
 advice, charity, and help whenever someone asks for it. Most of the time.
  
  The most creative part of the game is the costume design. Hundreds and thousands of possibilities 
 in costume creation. Along with some new options available at higher levels. Such as capes and 
 auras. Making your character look even more heroic. 
  
  In summary, this game is one of the best MMORPG's to make its way onto the PC. Joining together 
 the fun of a comic book, with the addictive playability of a role playing game. The price is defiantly 
 worth it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rdhnightwolf
Rating: 8.8
Date: Mar 27, 2006 11:35 am PT
Review:  Finally fans get a game where an MMO isn't all about equipping with the latest ring you found on 
 a quest. A simple straight forward comic book feast. City of heroes is an awsome game that takes 
 you into the heart of being a super hero. Fight off villains, team up for missions, and earn new 
 powers as you move about the city. 
  
  The graphics are done very well and the gameplay is super smooth. Fighting is extremely easy and 
 the bad guys usually go down after a few smacks. No standing in one spot for hours waiting to kill 
 one thing. The range of powers is great and the customization options for each character really 
 allow you to play with different styles.
  
  Of course the game is played better in a group as soloing can be difficult. If you're looking for 
 some good super hero action, you can't do better than this. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BobaFett2040
Rating: 4.7
Date: Mar 24, 2006 2:56 pm PT
Review:  Back when the game first came out the game was about Super Heroes. With the release of Issue 5 
 and a tremendous amount of nerfs (Gaming team for weakening) the game is a shadow of it's former 
 self. I played actively from day one. I've seen the game go up with Issue 2, but go steadily down 
 with Issue 3 on up. Constant neglect of high level characters. Slow to release new content. Slow 
 and unreliable bug patches. Poorly managed forums (If they don't like your post they delete it 
 even if it's within the rules) . An overzealous and short sighted game designer. All flash and no 
 substance. However the new players just joining will not see anything as they didn't see the game 
 in it's peak months. A sad, but true fact. People said that heroes were too tough in the game. 
 Last time I checked I never heard "Superman's too tough. You should weaken him. It's not fair for 
 the bad guys." Yes weaken is what they did. No longer can you excel at what you do. Now we're all 
 just a general mess of heroes that can do things that some others can't. Like gulash, only less 
 appealing. I fear things will only get worse from here as the people at NCSoft have forgoten to 
 reward loyalty. Slowly but surely the old players are leaving. City of Heroes will be a distant 
 memory. An example of what not to do. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BigC43
Rating: 8.4
Date: Mar 20, 2006 12:44 pm PT
Review:  City Of Heroes is the game that comic book fans have been waiting for. It's an MMO where you can 
 create your own hero and use him or her to save the city from destruction. It has everything a 
 RPG or Superhero fan could want, but I don't play it. Why, because I just like console gaming better. 
 The controls are a little cooky and you can't change them, so that makes a great game loose some 
 of it's playability, it also can get repettative after a while, but overall, especially if you 
 play with friends, it's a great game. 
  
  I did once create a character, a fire/ice tanker named 'Nearly Average Joe'. I played for a few 
 hours, joined a supergroup and beat up some baddies, but after a few hours, I got up and sat back 
 down in front of my Xbox. If COH was ever ported to the Xbox 360, I might have to start playing 
 again, but as it is, I'm happy with my console games. I can't say I don't like it, because it's 
 a great game that is lots of fun to play, but I just never got into it. If you are a big MMO gamer, 
 you should check this one out! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dalek301
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 1, 2006 10:03 am PT
Review:  I believe that 8.3 for this smasher of an MMORPG is an insult, this game is the game that I've 
 spent most of my free time on. The scale of everything is totally imense. The create-a-character 
 section is great, the number of parts available means not a single person on the game will have 
 the same costume. The amount of powers there are is also amazing. If you wanna be a lightning thrower 
 and a fire master you can, if you wanna specialize in guns and gadgets you can. The levels you 
 play are huge and can take around 10 minutes to get from 1 side to another and there are loads 
 of them, each bigger than the next. There are even powers to unlock such as flight, super speed, 
 jumping etc. Levelling up and improving your newly found skills is as fun as anything else. And 
 the absolute best part of the game is that its upgraded by the creaters, adding new features for 
 holidays like christmas, easter, halloween etc. All in all this is one of my favourite games of 
 all time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: adrenaline_
Rating: 9.4
Date: Mar 1, 2006 4:50 am PT
Review:  This is the best MMORPG I've ever played! Very addictive! 
  For a game that is now more than a year old, the graphics are still good. There have been a lot 
 of visually stunning PC games released recently that CoH can't quite live up to, but the character 
 models get the job done and the cityscape is convincing enough. Superpower effects like fireballs 
 and knockdown punches have plenty of impact. 
  
  If there is one part of this game that they've truly nailed, it's the character creation. You can 
 get lost in all the options you have for tweaking your characters appearance. Sliders allow you 
 to resize various body parts, there are a wide range of components to choose from, and the color 
 options really let you perfect your look. 
  
  The bad guys tend to work together. You aren't able to pull them one at a time and pick them off, 
 forcing you to deal with joint attacks from large numbers of enemies.
  
  The interface is almost everything it should be, and follows most MMORPG conventions. The mini-map 
 is exceptionally functional and has all the navigational aids you could ask for.
  
  With the coming of City of Villains, it makes the game perfect with heroes fighting villains! Oh 
 and every 2-3 months they add an update to the game, the so called "Issues". These add new stuff 
 to the game, such as powersets, new zones and much more! 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: trazzan
Rating: 8.3
Date: Feb 23, 2006 6:47 am PT
Review:  In other words, City of Heroes is a runaway success, and there's nothing that this review could 
 do to change it. And, y'know... good. Cryptic deserve every single subscriber account they've amassed. 
 Yay them.
  
  But it leaves this piece to be a rare pleasure in the reviewing biz. I've had the pressure of writing 
 the first incisive review of a game, trying to be on the bleeding edge of critical thought. I've 
 - more unusually - had the pleasure of offering the last word on a game, reviewing something which 
 is crossing formats and already a huge success. But City of Heroes, despite being out for months, 
 lives in an eternal limbo of constant improvements and tweaks, with a future major critical re-evaluation 
 scheduled in for its City of Villains expansions. It's not a last word. It's not a first word. 
 It's just... words.
  
  Sit back. Pour yourself a G&T. Relax. We're among friends here. Let's have a chat about why City 
 of Heroes is one of the undisputed games of the year.
  
  Firstly, its theme. We've thankfully come a long way from the days of when every MMO was a choose-your-orc 
 adventure full of burly men with a surfeit of consonants in their names and lithe women with a 
 deficit of fabric in their garments, but even given that, City of Heroes pushed the edges of respectibility. 
 Superhero games can't be done, people said, but they did it. Everyone - at least anyone who ever 
 seriously plays MMOs - has idly sketched out a superhero in the border of a school's notebook... 
 so immediate huge audience, yeah?
  
  Well, yes. But while, in one way, that's the reason why City of Heroes was a success, it also misses 
 the point by a huge margin. It wasn't that Cryptic made a superhero game - it's that they looked 
 at what a superhero game should be and staked it right through the chest. It's a harder task than 
 you may think. Most MMO games haven't had the strength of vision to choose their target, preferring 
 to point ineffectually around a variety of targets. City of Heroes doesn't have complicated trade 
 economies.
  
  City of Heroes is about this: hitting people in the face.
  
  And also this: looking really good.
  
  So, ultimately: hitting people in the face, while looking 
 really good.
  
  It cuts to the chase. None of something like - say - Star Wars Galaxies meandering around trying 
 to find a bar. Within minutes of creating your character, you'll be biffing someone on the nose 
 for justice. And it's immediately fun. "Immediately Fun" is a rare trait in an MMO, and more than 
 anything else has kept an audience. Its accessibility is also its failing - there's a fair chunk 
 of the audience who have burned out within a month, deciding they'd had enough hitting people in 
 the face while looking really good, thankyouverymuch.
  
  But - y'know - so what? It's a videogame, not a spouse. City of Heroes is a game which understands 
 what time it is. There's dozens of MMOs now. In the next six months, count the - hngggghhhh - Triple-A 
 titles arriving. Anyone interested in the genre is going to want to dabble in all of them, but 
 it takes a certain breed of player (i. e. A Very Rich One) to keep accounts open for several games, 
 when the time required to play a MMO means you can never really give satisfactory attention to 
 more than one at once. We're entering a world where people move from game to game, perhaps returning 
 later. Stay for a month or two - come back down the line, to see how things have changed. With 
 Cryptic Studio's determined expansion schedule, you can be sure it will have... but we're getting 
 ahead of ourselves.
  
  Combat is based on basic role-playing game tropes (Er... posh word meaning "Things". Sorry. Thought 
 I was posturing in Edge for a second) , being based on your characteristics rather than any significant 
 direct player skill. However, everything is fired through the superhero filter. So rather than 
 having magic swords or special training, your powers are enhanced by - er - enhancements, which 
 plug into abilities to give them a tweak, from everything for damage to speed of attack to dozens 
 of others. Powers are gained every few levels, expanding your repertoire. However, they're rarely 
 ultimately "better" than others, meaning that you don't ever stop using your initial abilities.
 
  
  The choice of power is only limited by your character archetype. That's "Character class", for 
 those who only speak GaryGygaxeese. Five are available currently, from the Blaster (High offence/Low 
 Defence) , the Tanker (High Defence/Low Defence) , the Scrapper (High offence close up/Medium Defence) , 
 the Defender (Provides healing and - hnnngggh - Buffs to others/low defence) and the Controller 
 (Makes sure trains run on time. Dabbles in direct mental attacks on the opposition in their tea 
 breaks) .
  
  While soloing is possible, especially with the more self-reliant classes, the game really comes 
 into its own in an organised team, supporting each other. The tanker charging in and attracting 
 as much attention as possible, usually last seen disappearing under a pile of bodies, blasters 
 keep their distance, picking off individuals with ludicrously vicious beams, and defenders whine 
 incessantly that people keep on moving before they cast a healing power. As well as the abilities 
 linked to the archetype, other general powers become available to all after the first few levels, 
 giving access to the things that no good metahuman could leave home without, like Flight, superspeed 
 or - for our female characters - a bosom-based immunity to gravity. Essentially, if there's a power 
 in a comic, you can have a close comparison to it.
  
  Except wall-crawling. And a few others. Oh, ptth!
  
  It's more than just random spawning combats. 
 Instead of open dungeons - though sewers and Danger zones act like that - it has instanced missions, 
 gathered from contacts where a hero and chums enter a closed environment to uphold the rule of 
 law and collect as much XP as humanly possible. These provide intense, structured encounters without 
 any chance of you being distracted by a passing eleven year-old with 1eet sp3ak ski11z. Not that 
 all the missions happen in such enclosed spaces - some feature elements running around the city 
 proper, or unexpected ambushes by forces. Or - always entertaining when you see it happen to someone 
 else - an enormous beast attacking the team. Most missions can be played through in an hour - a 
 major contributor to City of Heroes being one of the few MMOs you can play and enjoy with limited 
 available time - and there's the epic Task Forces for the serious players, requiring a serious 
 shift-length commitment.
  
  But in terms of making other games look bad, for this reviewer, one thing towers over all the others. 
 While Side-kicking - the ability for a higher level character to take a lower level character under 
 their metaphorical wing temporarily, so elevating their level to something vaguely comparable, 
 so allowing real-world friends of completely different levels to adventure together - is probably 
 the most game-design-based element that will be seriously influential, it's the integration of 
 the living city into spawning that makes other games look a little embarrassing now.
  
  The game's cityscapes are glorious places, full of cars, soaring skyscrapers and citizens minding 
 their business. However, crime is constant, with districts packed full of bad guys up to nefarious 
 deeds. In terms of pure atmosphere... well, take this entirely standard encounter. You're patrolling. 
 You see a woman having her handbag being wrestled from her by two thugs. She's calling for help. 
 You intervene. The thugs stop to fight you, cursing your name. You let them face stern vigilante 
 action. The victim runs up, thanking you profusely... and you're away.
  
  Of course, in game terms this is identical to just spawning monsters for you to hit. But compared 
 to how it affects atmosphere, going from City of Heroes to the sort of game that deposits you in 
 a field full of monsters which wander around, minding their own business, until you attack them... 
 well, it's not fun and they're shown to be as ridiculous as they clearly are. That isn't adventuring. 
 That's a genocide simulator. What did that orc ever do to you?
  
  So, yes, shallow. But beautiful.
  
  So we approach the latter half of the magical "hitting 
 people in the face, while looking really good" equation, which I'll only deal with in passing, 
 giving it the highest compliment. The character generation passes the Girlfriend test. That is, 
 if presented to my better half, she busily amuses herself accessorising some ludicrous character 
 and spending a good half hour working out whether the Fedora works or not. You look great. Or, 
 alternatively, look stupid as hell. But, most importantly, you'll look like you felt like looking. 
 Sitting in a central plaza in the game, and seeing people stream past - some soaring through the 
 air, others disappearing in a teleporting flash, some just hanging around disco-dancing... and 
 well, it's glorious. Rarely has a game ever had as much personality visible at a glance.
  
  So: focused excellence. Tellingly, Cryptic just won't leave it alone, with regular updates codenamed 
 "Issues" adding new features, expanding the "While Looking Really Good" with aspects such as cloaks 
 and special effects, "hitting people in the face" by giving an ever-increasing array of people 
 to hit in the aforementioned and even basic clever functionality, such as the recent specialist 
 mission which allow higher level characters to reassign their powers, so removing earlier errors 
 in their character development. And, with Player versus Player and character career skills on the 
 horizon, its future looks bright.
  
  Cynics may suspect that all this sounds a little rose-tinted. Cynics probably have a point. But 
 then Cynics probably haven't noticed that its primary faults have been well signposted, just not 
 condemned. Fundamentally, if cynics want an MMO game to be about more than just hitting people 
 in the face and looking great, this isn't the game for them.
  
  Of course, I don't really care what cynics think. Some of us have a planet to save.
  
  For 
 the fourth time today.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: L33tBudDha
Rating: 6.6
Date: Feb 17, 2006 12:57 pm PT
Review:  Since I haven't found any new games that have interested me enough to buy in the past couple months 
 I have decided to go back and review some of the games I played in recent years.
  
  The good:
  
  1) Visuals: The graphics in CoH are far from high-end as they are very cartoonish. 
 However that's the point, it's a game about comic book type heroes. The art is very well done and 
 the graphics in this game are dead on. You won't need the latest and greatest in gaming gear to 
 play CoH but you will get a great visual experience.
  
  2) Character creation: This is the bread and butter of CoH and it's really the biggest selling 
 point of the game. You get a WIDE variety of character models to tweak to make your own. This process 
 can take you HOURS and you will love every single moment of it. From making a cool bad ass new 
 guy like my Captain Anarchy to a goofy Mr. Banana haha you will have endless fun making characters. 
 They give you plenty of options from outfits, colors, hair styles, you name it.
  
  3) Class balancing: The class balancing is well done and there are needs for all character types. 
 Each class has the ability to specialize in certain abilities which makes CoH's character diversity 
 fairly strong. You have all of your usual suspects here from the tank types, pure dps class builds, 
 to healers and crowd control.
  
  4) Game size: The game's world is very nicely done. I enjoy the scenery and the wide variety of 
 areas to explore.
  
  5) Superpowers: Of course this rules! It's one of the main reasons why anyone plays this game! 
 You get superpowers and they give you plenty! You get a system of gaining powers that I consider 
 to be fair in it's difficulty and they make it so the more smash mouth type characters won't be 
 having the same abilities as someone who is designed more as a ranged character. They did a very 
 good job with the powers.
  
  The bad:
  
  1) Combat: The combat in CoH is repetitive and easy. The repetitive nature of this game is due 
 to the lack of variety in the combat encounters as well as a piss poor selection of villains to 
 fight. You often just spend hours fighting thugs and occasionally if you're lucky you may see a 
 thug that has a name, ooooo. He hit's +1 harder. At first you are happy with the combat due to 
 the sometimes massive amounts of enemies that can be involved. Then, after your 100 encounter like 
 that in two days you begin to get very bored and just spend the next week making new characters 
 to be bored with.
  
  2) Sound: With the low demand on your system from the graphics CoH could have introduced a higher-end 
 sound experience but instead went with what seems to be the basics. I'm not exactly sure what they 
 could have done that would make me ooo and ahhh but that's what they get paid for not me.
  
  3) Guns: This is by far the biggest reason why I could no longer stomach CoH and for that matter 
 the clone that soon followed called Matrix Online. If you use a gun or fight a character that uses 
 guns you will soon realize the horrible mistake CoH developers made. You can be a yard away from 
 someone and unload a full clip only to miss, put your gun back in it's holster, and then dodge 
 the enemies shotgun blast from that same distance. It is the most ridiculous visual I have ever 
 seen in an MMORPG and one that seriously helped drive me away.
  
  4) Grind: The xp grind is always a negative in an MMORPG. I will admit that it's not as bad in 
 CoH but since they don't offer you a very diverse variety of quests types, combat encounters, and 
 so on the grind takes its toll fast.
  
  The ugly:
  
  1) Just your average MMORPG bugs, broken quests, that sort of thing. I was in beta for CoH and 
 didn't find any kind of show stoppers as we like to call them in the QA world.
  
  Overall: 
  
  CoH is more like crack than Everquest in the sense that you will never obtain 
 the high you get from day one. Making your first character and showing him/her off while seeing 
 what they can do is a blast. Then you play the game and you start to realize the game isn't all 
 that great. So, you eventually try some more crack by making a new character but it's never as 
 good. Eventually you wish you never did it and need help to break the habit i. e. Guildwars is a 
 great way to break the habit. I recommend it, or WoW.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dash12
Rating: 8.1
Date: Feb 11, 2006 11:40 pm PT
Review:  Great game worth the money and time first mmorpg and have really enjoyed it there is no lag and 
 no slow loading times. the only downside is that it has the pay-to-play system which can be really 
 annoying.
  
  Great graphics and easy to get into gamplay which i think delivers on a great concept for an MMORPG
 
  
  Really easy to get into and enjoy also great people who are normally willing to help (or tolerate) 
 noobs :)
  
  note: i have bought both nthis and City of Villains and dont think its worth having them both because 
 theyre basically identical with a few different archetypes. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HuegoZZ
Rating: 7
Date: Apr 4, 2006 10:51 am PT
Review:  I. Summary
  
  City of Heroes (CoH) is likely the best MMORPG on the market today. Its a refreshing and effective 
 change from the sword & sorcery games that have dominated the genre. Although recent updates have 
 diluted the gameplay, the essence of City of Heroes (CoH) remains the same: uncomplicated, fast-paced, 
 amazing action matched with excellent sound effects and graphics.
  
  II. Pros
  
  1. Amazing potential as far as updates and add-ons. I can see it now... Issue 10: Secret Identities 
 - choose a profession and play as a mild-mannered human... Issue 20: Galactic Wars - travel to other 
 planets through space and time to fight evil, alien forces! Nice!
  
  2. CoH never ceases to disappoint in terms of character creation. Im still able to come up with 
 original characters, even after filling up all the given 88 character slots.
  
  3. Brilliant team dynamics. Each of the archetypes (jobs) are unique enough and fitting to play 
 in a team in such a way that teaming is an incredible experience. CoH is full of action-packed, 
 edge-of-your-seat fights.
  
  4. Captures the essence of being a superhero. In fact, Cryptic Studios out-does most comics in 
 terms of content and quality, in my opinion.
  
  5. Unlike other MMORPGs, character movement is not limited. This makes the gameplay more realistic 
 and tolerable.
  
  6. The graphics, animations and sound effects are top-notch.
  
  7. The interface is refreshing and easy to use.
  
  8. For those who already have friends playing, 
 will form super groups or join a decent super group, CoH will be, of course, a much more enjoyable 
 experience (yet still a grind) .
  
  9. Kheldians! Two archetypes Peacebringers and Warshades, only accesible to players with level 
 50 characters... worth the wait. To an extent, Kheldians give a new perspective to the gameplay.
 
  
  III. Cons
  
  1. Watered-down powers and archetypes after Issue 6, the latest update. The new patch has left 
 a little imbalance between archetypes and nerfed everything and every hero type.
  
  2. Power selection is still vague. Unless you read the forums or go elsewhere to learn about powers, 
 selecting a power in-game is hit-or-miss due to lack of power statistics and detailed descriptions.
 
  
  3. For casual and solo players, it will seem impossible to level and a grind. In fact, soloing 
 has become more difficult after Issue 6.
  
  4. Lack of oomph or interest in mission storylines. Voice-acting and cut scenes are very much needed. 
 Also, similar to many MMORPGs, the missions are very repetitive. Some puzzle-solving and less grinding 
 would be nice.
  
  5. Lack of an ongoing soundtrack. Although the small music clips rock, a selectable soundtrack 
 would make the experience much better.
  
  6. Fans of crafting or farming will find that CoH has nothing similar.
  
  7. The actual system 
 requirements needed to run the game smoothly or perfectly are much higher than recommended requirements.
 
  
  8. Prolonged installation and/or updates due to internet connection speed.
  
  9. Is it worth the $14.95 per month fee? For that amount, I expected a bit more...
  
  IV. Tips 
 / Suggestions for New Players
  
  1. Some cool builds to play are: Fire/Ice Tanker, Stone/Stone Tanker, Radiation Emission/Radiation 
 Blast Defender, Fire Control/Radiation Emission Controller, Ice/Ice Blaster, Dark Melee/Regeneration 
 Scrapper.
  
  2. Join with real life friends, family, or neighbors. Although youll need to look for members 
 for Task Forces later on, a team of 3 to 4 is perfect for starters.
  
  3. Fight Clockwork foes to level up faster. At low levels, in Atlas Park and Galaxy City, they 
 come out at night.
  
  4. When soloing, in general, stay away from Vahzilok!
  
  5. Its best to select a travel power at level 14, when its first available. So, before 14, plan 
 on taking a power from the Power Pool thatll open a travel power.
  
  V. Conclusion
  
  Cryptic Studios no doubt have revolutionized the world of MMORPGs with such incredible features 
 as the character creation, new style and concept of gameplay and user interface.
  
  CoH is definitely worth trying. Although one cant help shudder while thinking about what nerfs 
 the developers have in store for the future, hopefully each update will bring CoH closer to perfection. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FrenchKiller
Rating: 4.8
Date: Jan 30, 2006 8:46 pm PT
Review:  I played this Twice, at the beginning when it first came out, and after City of villains came out.
 
  
  When it first came out it was great, plenty of people everywhere, and even though there was less 
 content then at the moment, it was realy great. Making supergroups was easy, as there was plenty 
 of people around. I played it several months and was happy.
  
  I quit the game for a while, played some world of warcraft... and well once city of villains came 
 out i decided to resubscribe for a month.
  
  Well that month's subscription was basicly a waste of money,
  as the servers where basicly empty... 
 you could run in a main city part and not see another person (hero) for like 5 minutes... plus 
 grouping was now extremely hard, so i don't even want to imagine making a supergroup...
  
  The game itself is great, nice graphics, simple gameplay, but the mass of people playing is just 
 too few right now. Unless yoor interested in soloing the whole way, this game is not for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tala_fox
Rating: 2.4
Date: Jan 25, 2006 6:55 am PT
Review:  
  I spent a long while on this game and I will say I want it all back besides for the first month.
 
  There are so many bad things that is drowns out the bad things. I have bumped into idiots, **** 
 and the damn pufters that fall from the sky.
  I have bumped into so many idiots that swear at me call me an idiot. I would say my so-called friends 
 only used me. This game would be a 6/10 if it weren't for the people you meet.
  
  You may think I am wrong but wait till you start playing.
  I would be more worth while buying 
 a single-playing game. 
  It's to repetitive.
  I would say it helped me catch up on lost sleep.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Warwalker33
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jan 15, 2006 6:17 pm PT
Review:  This game does have graphics that could have been a bit better than they are but it more than makes 
 up for all of that with a game that is just a lot of fun to play. I really enjoy the combat in 
 this game and the fact that finding a group is a very easy thing to do. The gameplay is easy to 
 learn and once you have it down all you think about is getting to that next level or that next 
 power. The missions are very comic book orientated and enjoyable. They also give you a good feeling 
 about being a part of the hero universe. A very creative and very fun game all around. I think 
 everyone into superheros should pick this game up along with it's companion City of Villians. You 
 won't be disappointed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: EXxile
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jan 7, 2006 9:50 am PT
Review:  COH is a great game. One that addicted me to it as if it was drugs. When you play a game like this, 
 you better have alot of time on your hands or have no life. Because due to this games only online 
 stability that has you interacting with so many real people from around the world trying to level 
 up your hero, you get completely addicted. From the get go, you will design your characters look 
 and choose their attributes as well as they're style and what class they fall in. For example, 
 my character is a Tanker, and a freakin giant who actually looks like a villian. During your time 
 with this game, you will be doing many missions to level up so you will be getting new powers and 
 join unions and whatnot. Once you reach level 15 you can choose if you want to fly, super leap, 
 or teleport. These three powers really impact your character. However, the missions do get a tad 
 repetative, but they are still damn fun especially when you go into that cave to fight the trolls 
 with 6 men behind your back. Thats what I also like about this game, you can form temporary teams 
 to take on missions together and leave whenever you damn well please. The game is very nice to 
 look at.... when you got a good PC as with all PC games. The only reason I stopped playing this 
 game is because of the monthly online fee. It ended up to be alot more expense than I anticipated. 
 For example, I got this game for $20, but was paying $14.99 every month for about 4 months. So 
 technically it ended up to cost me $80. Its a great phenomal game in my eyes, that really took 
 alot of hours outta my life. But it was worth it. But just paying for the online fee was a real 
 drag. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Killerjoe17
Rating: 8.3
Date: Dec 10, 2005 1:38 pm PT
Review:  Oh me, oh my, oh pumpkin pie! Paragon City is filled with more Superheroes than you can shake a 
 stick at, but they're all there for a good cause: to stop crime! Yes, even in a city that is filled 
 with people to stop criminals, they just don't seem to get the hint, and pushing old ladies down 
 only to steal the hard candies in their purse seems like a good idea to us. I mean, them... Them... 
 But crime doesn't pay, so you must beat the sense out of them with blunt objects until they understand! 
 But won't you need a little bit of help against those tougher, bigger baddies?
  
  That's why we exist. This is our purpose: to make things easier on you, dear gamer. And we will 
 succeed in doing so by presenting this lovely guide as a wedding gift to you and yours! If you're 
 still waiting for the N. W. A. to get back together, you're here in the Introduction. If you're wanting 
 to know the general tips to get ahead of the competition, head to the Basics section. Need to know 
 all of the stuff that is "the jig" when you're in a party? Go to our Party section and scream with 
 joy! For character creation, check the Archtypes and Origins section. Wanna check out to see what 
 every power sets does and what they're good for? Check out the Powers section.
  
  Just remember, there are a bunch of other "superheroes" in Paragon City, but they're all zeros 
 compared to you, foxy lady. Or sir.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ranger166
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 7, 2005 11:10 pm PT
Review:  I just played the game for the first game at a freinds house and if I were going to pay $15 a month 
 for a game and WoW is full I will deffinatly buy and play this game. I created a new hero and wow 
 was it detailed. you got to choose everything from a classy eye patch and cigar combo to batman 
 boots. Of course we all love people that look like pandas. Now if any one wants a bionic sniper 
 on there super team let me know. the end, no realy the end. wow this isnt a hundred words yet. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: z44sms
Rating: 3.6
Date: Dec 1, 2005 12:19 pm PT
Review:  A boring game and not worth a monthly fee, I suggest you get Dark age of Camelot or even Guild 
 wars over this online game. Hell I even try World of Warcraft over this ... only worse game I played 
 online was Lineage II. Why is it not fun well AI is dumb you take a long time to level feels like 
 your doing the exact same quests I played it on a game card and got to level 43 of 50 levels, I 
 felt like I was doing same thing I was doing at level 1. Anyways the only good thing it has is 
 community and costumes design is the greatest unique character. PvP was just crazy and not organized 
 bunch of people just running around not really fun at all.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: zzmaj89
Rating: 9.8
Date: Nov 25, 2005 7:47 pm PT
Review:  Highly addicting game. You start out with a totally costomized hero and then your determined to 
 get them perfect!!! (to level 50) But then you want to try all types of heros. Its just plain fun. 
 You then get to team up with other heros and hunt villans or do missions to help out your fair 
 city. Make sure you have a good computer though because sometimes lag is an issue.
  
  The only problem besides the lag is it becomes expensive. The game itself is $49.99 but then it 
 costs almost $15 a month I believe. That really adds up. But people keep playing so apparently 
 its worth it to most people. The first moments in the game are confusing, they add special "enhancements" 
 that you can put in your powers to make them better, tons of powers, heros and costumes to choose 
 from, and you just dont know what to do.
  
  Eventually you will sort it all out, its not that bad, and most people in the game are nice and 
 will give newbies help. We're all friends here :-) after conquering the learning curve, the game 
 is great, at times it feels monotonous but just think about what your doing and try something new. 
 Theres even features in the game that you can rotate between them and not become bored.
  
  Overall I would recommend this to every RPG fan with sufficient funds. Its a good game, but don't 
 forget to cancel the subscripiton when your finished. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: XTheUnionX
Rating: 9.3
Date: Nov 24, 2005 6:17 pm PT
Review:  COH Is On Of The Greatest MMORPGs Around. With An Amazing, Player Encorporated Story Arch, A Fun 
 Combat Mode, And Just All Around Amazing Game Play, City Of Heroes Is The Place To Be. City Of 
 Heroes Offers Players A Wide Variety Of Costumes and Abilities To Be The Heroes The Always Wanted 
 To Be. Gameplay Is Amazing And Has Easy To Use Controls That Let You Play As Fast Or As Slow As 
 You Want. COH Also Has Hundreds Of Complex And Amazing Maps To Explore. Every Thing From An Entire 
 Ruined City To The Jungles. 
  
  City Of Heroes HasVery Few Flaws, The Main Two Being Missions Getting Repetative, And The Cost 
 Of The Monthly Fees. Only Buy This Game If you Are Willing to Invest. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: drillbitz03
Rating: 9.6
Date: Nov 23, 2005 9:54 pm PT
Review:  Every person in the world has dreamed of becoming a hero. Having super powers far beyond those 
 of mortal men. Powers that give them the ability to protect, defend, and bring hope to the masses. 
 Powers that allow you to cut a swathe through the forces of evil. Powers that look flashy and cool.
 
  This game provides you with the opportunity to do all that and more. You can fly through the air 
 with the greatest of ease, run faster than a speeding bullet, and shoot fire and ice from your 
 fingertips. The gameplay is superb, the graphics are spectacular, and the continues to edit itself. 
 It's not a perfect city you're trying to protect, four of the original zones in the game have undergone 
 some kind of drastic change over time. And with City of Villains coming out and the birth of two 
 PvP zones (where Heroes and Villains can strut their stuff against actual thinking people who can 
 come up with their own tactics and adapt) . The addition of Bases and Base Portals gives both Heroes 
 and Villains a place to form up their supergroups and coalitions.
  
  This *is* the best MMORPG on the market. As long as NCSoft and Cryptic keep doing what they've 
 been doing (revolutionizing the game and producing an enjoyable, artistic, adaptive gaming atmosphere) . 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: khan115
Rating: 9.3
Date: Nov 20, 2005 8:07 am PT
Review:  City of Heroes is the most impressive online game I have ever played. 
  
  A lot of people dislike it because of the small details such as repetitive levels and somewhat 
 comic style graphics... fair enough, so its no Metal Gear Solid when it comes to stunning visual 
 effects. But consider the rest of its features, such as the game play, character creation and development, 
 sound effects, vast cities and team-based missions.
  
  What people do not take in to consideration is that the game is not just about being attractive 
 to the eye, but more to do with the depth of the character that you create. Consider games such 
 as Star Wars Battlefront 2 - a brilliant game I must say, BUT you do not play as one consistent 
 character; there is variety of different people/bots you can play as. However, in City of Heroes 
 the fact that you play as the same character throughout the game (unless you create another) , means 
 you become familiarised with his/her capabilities, strengths, weaknesses and traits, therefore 
 allowing you to utilise them to their fullest potential.
  
  When you level up in City of Heroes, its not like other games where you are given a new ability, 
 and you have not choice about it - you are given a choice from various different power sets that 
 you chose at the character creation screen. once you progress to certain levels then new advanced 
 powers are unlocked; consider that level 14 (for those who have played the game) unlocks all of 
 the secondary powers from the pool powers, such as Super Speed, or Fly or even Teleport; level 
 20 unlocks further powers, such as Group Fly, or Team Teleport. As you can see, the character development 
 is a very important part of the game, and one that many reviewers disregard because they take it 
 for granted.
  
  On to the PvP game modes. City of heroes allows MASSIVE PvP battles to take place, either in an 
 arena's or in PvP areas such as Bloody Bay. The game allows players to team up and take on other 
 teams in huge battles, more importantly the different heroes in each team varies immensely. Many 
 teams prefer to be completely 'hands on' and have a team of Tankers and Scrappers; other teams 
 are a bit cleverer and incorporate a variety of Tankers, Scrappers, Controllers (being the most 
 powerful Archetype) , Defenders and Blasters, which allows them to defeat players far more easily 
 and effectively.
  
  Conclusively it can be said that the game incorporates the basics of online gaming, and combines 
 it with unique qualities such as the Character Creation, and allows player to enjoy Online Gaming 
 like never before.
  
  Look out for my City of Villains review, which I will write once Ive played it.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Trendkill351
Rating: 6.2
Date: Nov 19, 2005 5:05 pm PT
Review:  city of heros is a good game, but it has to much lag. in this game u creat ur own hero, and u put 
 justice to a hi crime town. the creat a charcter mode has the most creatiblity i have ever seen 
 in my life. the game play is really fun but its so disapointing that it has so much lag evry single 
 time u play. and i have to say that after i installed this game to a new computer it complte crashed 
 and the computer no longer works so becareful. this game wouldve gotten a 9 but the lag brings it 
 down to a low rating 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dragonslayer90
Rating: 6.8
Date: Nov 19, 2005 8:45 am PT
Review:  This game lets you be your own hero, lets you create nearly endlessly possibilities of costumes. 
 There are lots of power combinations to choose from. Once you create your hero you will be sent 
 to either city you want (doesnt matter just different missions) . Once you complete a couple of 
 missions the game is fun. But after completeing missions over and over again it gets very repetitive. 
 Once you get your travel power (at level 14) the repetitiveness goes away for a while. After you 
 get your travel power thats about it. More grind up ahead. I meen GRIND. There is alot of grind 
 in this game. Plus there is no really equiping weapons or armor instead you put "enhancements" 
 onto your characters powers which add little effect (damage, accuracy, etc.....) . The graphics 
 are very good and so is the sound. The game is really fun at the beggining, its just to bad the 
 game gets repetitive fast. Try the free trial (if there is one) if not i would stay away from this 
 game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mhungry
Rating: 2.5
Date: Nov 8, 2005 3:59 am PT
Review:  Having played many MMORPG games, I can say without a doubt this game is far from appealing to me. 
 Perhaps i'm just not into being a super hero... but I honestly feel it's other things about it 
 that bug me. 
  
  I find the mutliple-mob at once approach to be not fun for certain classes. The game practically 
 requires grouping to succeed at all. While this might be fun sometimes, I enjoy a good romp on 
 my own sometimes, and it seems I am limited to one or two classes that can handle soloing easily.
 
  
  Not to mention that killing things over and over and over again, while truly a common thing among 
 these games, just somehow seems even more boring in this game. 
  
  The lack of in game money... or rather the fact that it's being called something else... is ridiculous, 
 as is the lack of crafting.
  
  Nice visuals in the game is about all it's good for. I'm playing WoW now.. not perfect but pretty 
 close. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mutly
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 7, 2005 8:34 am PT
Review:  well.. where to begin?
  
  I got the free trial of this game and as soon as that was up i went and played it for a few months. 
 Well first, i had a load of graphics problems which meant that i was having the BSD every other 
 minute, 90 seconds of gameplay was a major thing. There support team was good and i sorted but 
 only after several days of not being able to play.
  
  Well, the tutorial for the game is good. Its short and too the point and gets you started and makes 
 you feel like that big superhero youve always wanted to be - go on, admit it, you've always wanted 
 to be a superhero.
  
  So with my electric throwing lady in lycra i went into the big bad world and found that i could 
 make a difference. I also found the all the missions were the same, and apart from electrocute 
 people i was fast losing interest.
  
  Then i got my travel power ( Is it a bird? Is it a plane? No its me flying around and looking like 
 a prat) and i thought hey, now im a real superhero. And very slowly, thanks to the debt system, 
 i got to lvl 20 and got my cape and then... i died... a lot. The main reason i stopped playing COH 
 was becuase my character had several hundred thousand debt points. For those of you not yet aqaunted 
 with the debt system it basically havles ur XP points from each kill. 
  
  It got boring dying in every mission, teaming up with complete areshole is also a drag.
  
  
 To conclude, its a nice game to play for a few weeks - so if you've got a few $$ to burn and a 
 week or two off then go get it, play it and sell it used. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Archrivel
Rating: 3.4
Date: Nov 2, 2005 7:06 am PT
Review:  I got City of Heros when it was new, there servers would always be half full by mid-day. We do 
 out missions get our powers level up and its just that.
  
  Goto point A get quest got to point B then go back to Point A to back to another point B. 
  
 
  Behind the shiny Costumes and annoying graphic problems you find out theres not much of a game. 
 I deactivated my account and left it for 90 days or more.
  
  I just returned to see if there was any changes or if they made improvements for this new expansion. 
 The only difference is the servers are empty all day long. The game has become stale and boring 
 all you doing is going round in circles. The new PVP features are nothing but fun houses for the 
 kiddes. The game is annoying, the features are a copy-cat version still full of bugs and Graphics 
 glitches. 
  
  Even with this new expansion all you doing if you buy the expansion is buying another COH, just 
 with a different name. Everything inside COV is just the same as COH, Infact you could call it 
 COH2 and not notice the difference they are that identical. This game is just simply not worth 
 the hassle or the Boredom time. 
  
  This be a great game to play before you go to bed cause this one will have u sleeping in minutes. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: eriktirto
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 31, 2005 7:10 pm PT
Review:  WOW... CoH really Kick WoW Ass... well, for you who really love superheroes.. i 100% recommended 
 this game for you without having any worries. City of Heroes, i had played this MMORPG for 1 year, 
 along together with WoW, Guild War, Tantra Online, R. O. S. E, and for now, in my opinion it could 
 be the best of all BUT REMEMBER DONT EXPECT TOO MUCH ON THIS GAME !!!! CoH really gives you the 
 power of becoming a real super-heroes in the world. Again, having to be expanded by the newest 
 expansion pack, City of Villain, i believe it would really boosted up the value and gaming exprience 
 for CoH player as well as CoV players to really enjoy both of becoming hero or villains. Nevertheless, 
 one thing that i really don; t like about this game is the limited amount of space that this game 
 had given us inside the mission itself. The space was really limited as if that i had done the 
 same mission which was actually different, over and over and over and over agaian. The dullness 
 and uncreativeness of the creator of this game about the mission places should be really been thought 
 and improved from long time ago, but till now, there are no single progress in doing that. Simply, 
 it result to an underated value for the game as the players will be easily get bored and feel to 
 be treated unfairly as being blamed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KitKitty
Rating: 8.8
Date: Oct 26, 2005 1:43 pm PT
Review:  This game was a well made Unique style of the classic MMORPG. I had lots of fun with it. The classic 
 MMORPG had shops and equipment, while this game had a totally new way to play a MMORPG with a very 
 fun set up. I would recomend it exept for the fact that world of warcraft is better. If you like 
 comics and are looking for some action in your RPG, This game is for you. It has a great way to 
 build your own unique charicter, and a very fun world to explore. If you always wanted to have 
 your own super hero, and go out to fight bad guys with him, this game is totally for you. If your 
 a fan of the classic RPG, you might not like it as much as WoW. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CalienteBurito
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 21, 2005 11:51 pm PT
Review:  I wanted this game from the moment I saw it. And if your a nerd like me you probably did too. This 
 game is defenitly top 3 favorite games...
  
  GAMEPLAY :: Perfect. Haveing super powers is way too much fun. So is taking out hordes of lowbie 
 npcs with a huge fireball! It is one of the guilty pleasures. If you can stand playing for about 
 5 hours the Task Force is one of the best gameplay features in a game I've ever seen... and the 
 final bosses... WOW!
  
  GRAPHICS :: This is the only part of the game that I wish was more improved... but it still gets 
 the high score because of the costumes! The BEST costume creation in any game I've ever seen! 
 
  
  SOUND :: Well... this is kind not as good as it could have been either.. the music is pretty much 
 sounds like MIDI format. But the sound effects are wonderful so it makes up for it
  
  VALUE :: If you are a comic book fan defenitly consider this one. It is very much worth the money
 
  
  TILT :: Just the fact that you can be a full fledged super hero makes the game awesome to me. Like 
 I said before... Defenitly one of my favorites! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Revan1793
Rating: 8.4
Date: Oct 20, 2005 9:05 pm PT
Review:  I love this game if you like MMOs or just a fan of comics and superheroes 
  i think you will as well worth paying 15$ a month lots of outfit designs to choose from and the 
 powers are amazing and all are fun to play with and 
  most go with each other pretty well but dont be quick to play it for 10 minutes then just give 
 up it is a MMO after all but one downfall is that mission maps can get old if you dont like to 
 see the same thing over and over but that doesnt mean you shouldnt get this game it is good in 
 its own rights. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DeMoNRiFLe
Rating: 7.8
Date: Oct 20, 2005 6:29 pm PT
Review:  City Of Heroes brought MMORPG to life, now other games like Guild Wars and World Of Warcraft follow 
 it down the line. 
  
  I don't recommend this game to most players, I liked it... but I found it boring especially about 
 20-30 hours into the game, during this period into the game leveling up can takes hours even days, 
 puny enemies don't give enough experience points so you go for the tougher enemies which most likely 
 end up killing you, they "gank" you and attack all at once. 
  
  Your character is fully customizable, powers and apperance which is a PLUS in any game. COH wasen't 
 a dissapointment, but In my view it just wasen't my cup of tea. I suggest some players try Guild 
 Wars or WoW. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: IagoDivergo
Rating: 8.7
Date: Oct 15, 2005 1:53 pm PT
Review:  When I first started playing this game a launch, I was instantly hooked. The MMO I was playing 
 was the overly sad and pathetic SWG which was broken from the beginning and never fixed. City of 
 Heroes was a welcome change. I got the game the first day it came and out and loaded it up immediately. 
 
  I was amazed at the character creation. By the far the most unique and most advanced I've ever 
 seen in an MMO. Frankly, the amount of options for customization not only boggles the mind, but 
 makes every other MMO's character creation seem more like a chore then a pleasure. I spent hours 
 tweaking my main character and many more hours after that create new ones just the fun of it. In 
 other MMOs you have a small choice of facial structures, body shapes, hair colors, and clothing 
 options; however, in CoH all these physical aspects can be altered to allow the most ascetically 
 pleasing character possible.
  As for Game play goes, it's good. There cases of better game play however this is still has a great 
 feel to it. You have more freedom in this game than any other MMO. You can fly through the skies 
 or leap building to building or ever race along the streets at super speed. 
  After playing awhile and getting some new powers, that aren't part of your original class, makes 
 your character almost truly unique in the sense that you won't see many people around using the 
 exact same powers that you have. In other MMOs there are thousands of players with the exact same 
 abilities as you. You choose a class and you are stuck with whatever that class will give you, 
 generally. In CoH you choose a class, but also powers and then you can have supplemental powers. 
 Then there's also the enhancement system allowing you to make you powers unique as well. 
  The story of CoH is also immense fun. With many MMOs based on Movies or other Games and ones with 
 original stories being rather bland and dry, it's refreshing to find and MMO with a story that 
 is actually fun to be a part of. 
  The only thing this game was missing was PVP. PVP is what keeps me playing a game after I reach 
 high levels. CoH doesn't have any. This is soon too remedied by the release of City of Villains, 
 which will add PVP and many newer unique options that I am overly excited about.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: The_Code
Rating: 8.7
Date: Oct 14, 2005 8:28 am PT
Review:  Ok when i started playing this game it was because i was tired of WoW and thought id try something 
 new and so far this game fits the bill. Its very fun the best thing about it tho is the chacter 
 creation you can make your chacter look anyway you want and give him any powers you want you can 
 do w/e you feel like. Another great thing is the exploration of the city tho i dont like the fact 
 the place are divided by load times it still is great to the fact you can get on top of anything 
 you see then leap to the building next to it. Tho you cant really get around till level 14 you 
 can still have some fun exploring the starter zones. There is no armor are weapons in the game 
 instead you find these things called enhacments which make your powers more powerful in things 
 like damage and accuracy. The leveling up system is different for every odd number your level is 
 you get two new enhancements slots to add to any power. And for every even number your lvl is you 
 get a new power. The costume your character has on can be changed at any time for a little money 
 but at high levels such as 20 you get a new costume slot allowing you to have multiple costumes 
 by level 50 you will have 5 costumes. I find this game very fun and if you want an MMO that doesnt 
 require much of your life this it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LordBronco
Rating: 6.6
Date: Oct 10, 2005 10:03 pm PT
Review:  The developer's have chosen to increase the anooyance factor in a game that wasn't much fun to 
 begin with. The newest innovations including City Of Villians make me regret befriending anybody 
 that I met online, for I'll miss them dearly.
  This game has great graphics and a character generation system that's pretty cool, but that's about 
 it.
  Any new additions recently amended on the heroes side are tedious in the extreme, and I can't imagine 
 why I'd like to play through this game twice.
  
  And I'm pretty sure that COV is going to be more of the same.
  
  My account lapsed, and I'm 
 just fine with that...
  
  Think I'll go read a book 
::::::

::::::
UserName: L00sifur
Rating: 6.7
Date: Aug 22, 2005 8:54 pm PT
Review:  Let me establish the caveat that I'm reviewing this after a few days of playing; this is more an 
 initial impression than any kind of definitive summary of the entire game. The reason for this 
 is the two week trial period. As I see it, most MMORPGs will get tedious to some extent as time 
 goes on. If you get two weeks of fun out of this game and then stop, it's worth the money. For 
 the subscription to be worthwhile, it has to hook you in enough to keep playing after that. So, 
 this review is geared towards whether the game inspires you to keep playing after the trial is 
 over. Furthermore, I'm coming in to this after playing World of Warcraft for about nine months, 
 so that's my basis for comparison. 
  
  I've rated the standard game factors, i. e. Gameplay, Sound, etc. below, so here I'm only going 
 to mention MMORPG specific things, such as missions, community and the like. 
  
  The Good:
  The character design process is fun on its own merits. You can customize virtually 
 everything about the appearance of your character, which is incredibly satisfying and has the effect 
 of making you immediately attached to it. Playing through the game, even just going from point 
 A to point B, feels heroic. All heroes have a sprint ability and can jump fairly high, both with 
 action-line animations which reinforce the comic book feel. The interface takes some getting used 
 to but isn't overly complex. There aren't extensive travel times and there is a prevalence of villians 
 to fight so the pace keeps up. Enemies seem to react with a degree of intelligence: enemies with 
 powerful ranged attacks will try to stun you or knock you down so they can't retreat to a safe 
 distance; foes which are far below your level will run at the sight of you; enemies don't tend 
 to stray far alone and will bring their friends along if you aggro them. The maps are very immersive, 
 with rooftops, alleys, tunnels and culverts with enemies spread throughout in characteristic places; 
 for instance, evil wizards can sometimes be found in dark alleys or on high rooftops performing 
 some dark ritual, but only at night. Finally, there is something very addictive about the game. 
 I've found myself saying "just one more level" or "I'll just go do this one last mission" pretty 
 often and losing track of time.
  
  The Bad:
  PvP to date is limited to The Arena, an area in one of the starting zones, although with City of 
 Villiains this will expand. The community is somewhat lacking, at least on the server I play, and 
 I have yet to see anything resembling roleplaying, which a lot of people look for, especially as 
 the newness of the game wears off. Gameplay is awkward at times, especially in combat. When you 
 execute an ability it triggers an animation, no matter what it is, which interrupts everything 
 else, including movement. What this results in is chasing a fleeing enemy, stunning him (a lengthy 
 animation) , seeing the stun take effect about five seconds later as he runs through a far off group 
 of enemies, and subsequently aggroing the bunch. Oddly, I've often found that letting the enemy 
 run and waiting for him to return will not aggro anything at all, even as he runs straight through 
 a crowd. The level system for mobs is somewhat confusing, as each will have a classification in 
 addition to its level, such as minion or boss, and the two combine to result in its overall difficulty 
 rating which is shown by the color of its name. Soloing seems to be incredibly difficult, as even 
 the beginning instances are set up in such a way that "good" pulls involve three or more mobs, 
 and zones outside of the beginning areas frequently have eight or more mobs in a group. Missions 
 are incredibly repetitive and stealth seems to be pointless, as they tend to involve either killing 
 x mobs of a type outside, clearing buildings and getting an item, or going to talk to someone. 
 Also, much of the action is either scripted animation or text description. An example is one mission 
 involving evil wizards, where you open the secret door to their lair and receive a message informing 
 you that you followed a jewel thief to the location and saw him go inside. There isn't equipment 
 as such, instead there are inspirations (temporary buffs) and enhancements (permanent buffs for 
 powers, sort of like materia from FFVII) . Thus there really isn't trade and the monetary system 
 of the game feels pointless. Also, there doesn't appear to be a way to see numerical stats of any 
 kind, so it's difficult to tell what abilities will do what and how effective enhancements are 
 in any clear way.
  
  Conclusion:
  This game was supposedly developed by the team who worked on Diablo, and it shows. Gameplay consists 
 primarily of clicking on an enemy, clicking on powers and buffs, and either winning, losing, or 
 running. Repeatedly. Minor graphic glitches and the feel of the game in general makes it seem incomplete. 
 Even this soon in to the game it lacks the strategy and depth of World of Warcraft. That having 
 been said, the game is fun in a simplistic sort of way, and it does have a certain charm. Hopefully 
 subsequent updates will add some depth and variety to the game, but until then I would steer anyone 
 looking for a really in-depth game away. If you're looking for something to mess around with for 
 an hour or two, however, this fits the bill. You just have to decide whether it's worth the monthly 
 cost. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Weeoo_86
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jul 25, 2005 2:15 am PT
Review:  My cousin brought his computer down today for me to play C. O. H. and let me tell you something, 
 it's GREAT!! The only MMO I've ever really plaed before I plaed this game was Runescape and that 
 game wasn't all that. But if you're looking for a game that's a mixture of GTA and RPG this game 
 is DEFINATELY it!! the cities are huge and there's ton to do! the only thing I really have to pick 
 with the game is the fact that you have to pay 15 dollars a month to play it, that's the main reason 
 I stay away from MMOs. If they came out with a single player version of this game it would be awesome! 
 but there's no way in heck I'm paying 15 dollars a month. But yea if you're looking for a good 
 MMORPG to play this is definately it 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Chinbobbabobot
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jul 24, 2005 10:05 pm PT
Review:  City of Heroes is like any other RPG- relatively simple combat, complex character building, lots 
 of customization and very, very addictive. This game will grab you and you can not let go, and 
 you probably won't want to either.
  
  The graphics are great. Even though this review is being written a year after its release, it's 
 still a visually impressive game. Of course, the game is just so immensely huge in terms of the 
 size of each level that you really can't expect to be able to go into every single bulding or be 
 able to scrutinize evry detail of a window- a lot of stuff is painted on, especially the windows. 
 Of course, it's understandable- MMOs have a long way to go before they can look like an Unreal 
 3 powered game and still have thousands of players and NPCs in a single level at one time. But 
 the dynamic lighting really makes your character shine in the sun nicely if you've got a design 
 that makes it look that way.
  
  Gameplay is simple enough- when you want to fight, you target an enemy by clicking on him, then 
 you activate an attack or other power by clicking on the power in your bar or by pressing number 
 keys one through nine. The only difficulty I have with this is targeting enemies when there's a 
 dozen other players around me- gets really hectic in supergroup battles. The thing has a 'sidekick' 
 option- basically, if a level 10 guy assigns a level 1 guy as his sidekick, the level 1 guy gets 
 to be more powerful until the level 10 guy doesn't awnt hte level one guy hanging around anymore. 
 This makes leveling up easier, though you still have to go through your typical levels rather than 
 being able to jump three or four just because you're a sidekick. Doesn't work that way.
  (Word to the wise- level up early by going through training. Trust me.)
  
  Sound is great, 
 though like any game, it's as repetitive as the fighting. Still, the soundtracks are great. Some 
 noises for characters, but no voice acting. Not that big a deal.
  
  Overall, I'd say this game is awesome. Play it. NOW. Before I punch you in the neck. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: docnorge
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 20, 2005 10:53 pm PT
Review:  I have a diverse background in MMO type games. I don't consider myself an expert but have played 
 UO, Asheron's Call I and II, Star Wars Galaxies, Everquest. There were things I enjoyed about all 
 these games but none of them kept me coming back for more like City of Heroes. The games play is 
 solid and most importantly fun. Get bored with a character (hasn't happened to me yet but just 
 in case.) create a new one. You can spend hours trying out new character types. The creation system 
 is deep. $14.95 a month may seem steep but the game is already a recipient of multiple major updates 
 that have included new powers, zones, costumes, enemies, etc. I really feel the team has been listening 
 to the players and have implemented features that have kept it fun. Overall, it is well worth picking 
 up and giving it a shot. The missions and surrounding storylines can be very clever and are the 
 most fun when done with a group. You can solo in this game too if you wish and this also works 
 very well. As a bonus, you get a free comic each month. The current issues are written by talented 
 writer Mark Waid. Overall, well worth the money spent. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bernasm
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jul 9, 2005 2:26 am PT
Review:  This is a game that hits all the right buttons with its fanboy audience. It's as good as MMOGs 
 get!
  Most MMORPGs have you waste a lot of time just getting your character up to a "decent" level before 
 it starts to be fun. This usually means performing menial tasks like killing rabbits just to buy 
 a useful weapon. In COH, you are slugging it out with villains in the first five minutes! Add in 
 the ultimate character customization engine (costume design) , multiple costume slots, the ability 
 to enhance or respec powers and an ever-evolving city map the size of Manhattan... and be prepared 
 to spend three hours a day on average playing this game :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sakko
Rating: 7.6
Date: Jun 14, 2005 3:54 pm PT
Review:  City of Heroes is revolutionary in many ways. Let's go over some highlights.
  
  In CoH you can create your own super hero using many many different costume combinations. When 
 you run around Paragon City you will no doubt see some very unique creations for other players 
 heros. There is also a random hero costume generator, and you can tell who used it since EVERY 
 thing on the character is one of two colors. More creative folks are going to use a more interesting 
 palette.
  
  You choose archtypes, and within those, powersets to define your character. There are alot to choose 
 from but still you end up with lots of folks choosing the same thing, so while in the comics there 
 are rarely any heroes with the same powers, in CoH it is a very common occurrence.
  
  From the get go you report to your contact and start fighting crime. You can go out and just street 
 hunt for burglars and thugs as well, but the real experience comes from doing missions assigned 
 to you by these contacts. The missions quickly develop into entire story lines and you really feel 
 heroic when you thwart a fiendish plot to corrupt the water supply of the city or pump up the drugs 
 on the streets.
  
  You can work with your friends on the same missions without having to physically be on or share 
 the same mission. They will get full experience rewards from it for completing it. You can have 
 up to 8 people on a team and your mission will scale according to the heropower you are packing.
 
  
  In addition to teaming up, there are two methods of equalizing levels for playing with friends 
 who are not the same level as you. Sidekicking is for bringing a lower level temporarily up to 
 your level. Exemplaring is for lowering your own level to that of a lower level buddy's. The beauty 
 of this is that you can play the game with ANYONE. Gone are the days of friends getting ticked 
 off for your fast leveling habits.
  
  The combat system of CoH is beauty. There are direct attacks, hold/suspension type attacks, and 
 area effect type attacks. Usually in an MMO your basic AE attack will be rather weak, but damage 
 all foes in an area. Not the case in CoH. If you have a few heroes with AE attacks be prepared 
 to be able to clear huge swaths of bad guys. The bad guy attrition rate in this game is like no 
 other. In an MMO a typical encounter might last 15-20 seconds or so. In CoH they are lucky to survive 
 for 5 seconds. You literally wipe out evildoers in droves, it's awesome.
  
  This is where we begin to see problems. There are people that exploit this kind of play. Grab a 
 tanker archtype, with a fire power set. Level him up to about level 40 and he begins getting powers 
 that make him damn near invulnerable. Then he goes on an outdoor mission that allows him to "herd" 
 all kinds of bad guys by getting them all mad and running them around the map. He stops at a location 
 in which they will all mob him then turns on his fire AE attacks. Hundreds of bad guys die at once 
 garnering an insane amount of experience.
  
  Noone wants to do regular missions anymore at high levels. How you play the game at the high end 
 is literally beg to be on one of these teams. Everyone just sits around while the fire tank does 
 the work. I signed on a few months ago to check this game out with my level 44 blaster. He was 
 level 50 in a week and a half and didn't kill much at all himself. It's really quite sad and needs 
 to be addressed by the development team. I don't think they had this kind of behavior in mind in 
 the design of their game.
  
  Too little too late. Another thing that needs addressing is content. There is literally one thing 
 to do in CoH. Smite evildoers. While CoH does this VERY well, it leaves alot to be desired. There 
 is also no inventory system in game. The only thing you worry about is your power choices every 
 2 levels, and your enhancements. Enhancements mod your powers with things like damage, range and 
 accuracy. There is only one way to go however that is most lucrative. A tiny bit of accuracy and 
 the rest damage. Any other way is just inefficient, so why have the system at all? All your enhancements 
 are bought with influence which is earned by thwarting evildoers and completing missions. By about 
 level 20 you have enough influence for everything you'll ever need. At level 50 I have about 35 
 million spare influence with nothing to spend it on. I could sit at the newb areas and pass it 
 out until I was empty and it wouldn't affect me one bit.
  
  By end game you end up with a very cool superhero that can deal tons of damage and engage foes 
 with a plethora of powers, but that is all you can do, and since you are max level, there's no 
 point to it.
  
  Let's go over the vitals...
  
  Gameplay 9 - CoH is genuinely fun to play, and it's unique in it's combat system.
  
  Graphics 
 9 - CoH has great graphics. The artists make you feel like you are in a real city, the superheroes 
 look awesome, the bad guys are very cool looking too!
  
  Sound 8 - The sound is superb. The sounds of the city, the powers, and everything just sounds great. 
 They could have used some things like character voice macros though.
  
  Value 5 - CoH will last a month or two, which is an ok norm, but for an MMO it's just atrocious. 
 If you want to play a cool MMO don't be afraid to give it a shot, but it is just not a long term 
 game.
  
  Reviewers Tilt 6 - I have love for CoH, but they need to add alot to get me back into the game, 
 and they are going extremely slow with this process. They recently added PVP which totally sucks. 
 It's all about hold powers. Whoever gets their hold off first wins. Totally lame.
  
  Conclusion - CoH is a good game, but needs like 8 new things to do, and they need it yesterday. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FyreHeart
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jun 3, 2005 5:36 pm PT
Review:  #### Gameplay ####
  The basic mechanics are a comfortable mix between 3rd-person action and MMO standards. They managed 
 to make RPG combat feel real time very effectively. Creating your character, leveling, choosing 
 powers, moving around in different zones - everything was done with care and attention to detail. 
 It really shines. This is what Star Wars Galaxies wishes it could be.
  
  #### Graphics ####
  Incredible character creation system - absolutely second to none. The character 
 models and textures are all believable and appropriate. Like many MMO games, this one suffers from 
 draw distance issues and lag/frame rate problems, but it handles itself better than many others 
 I've played.
  
  #### Sound ####
  I'd like more music. A short musical blurb plays when you change zones, but that's about it. The 
 attack sound effects are appropriate, but a little weak.
  
  #### Value ####
  Compared against other MMO games, this is a great value. I still think they could ALL charge less 
 per month, though.
  
  #### Tilt ####
  If you've ever pretended to be Superman or Wonder Woman, you'll find some fun in this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: StarFox2892
Rating: 9.2
Date: May 26, 2005 2:20 am PT
Review:  I love this game. Its amazing. You choose a super hero and save the town from villians. If you 
 are going to get a game in which you pay monthly this is the one to choose because there is no 
 other game like this. WoW is just lkike guild wars and you can get that instead but nothing replaces 
 this incredible game. The graphics in this game are superb and better then any game i have seen. 
 Its not to easy of a game so it will take awhile to get certain skills. You can fly and do all 
 kinds of skills. The custimization on a charachter you make its awsome. You customize everything. 
 You put all their looks on and they all look like an awsome cool super hero. You might want to 
 wait because NCSoft is realsing a new game called Cty of Villians which is a sequel to this one. 
 If you cant wait this is totally the next pc game to buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dryden555
Rating: 8.3
Date: May 25, 2005 1:33 pm PT
Review:  Its easy to see what is best about City of Heroes. You can create a character right at the start 
 with a huge number of choices. Its undeniably great, and the latest free add-on gives you even 
 more costume choices.
  
  The battle graphics and sounds I think are excellent and better than either WOW or Everquest2 . 
 The graphic engine can handle lots of battle effects at once and it makes every battle fun to see. 
 Enemy character animations are also excellent and varied. The world graphics are fine too, but 
 the battle graphics are where this game stands out from the other MMORPG's.
  
  But the missions in City of Heroes are far too much of the same thing over and over. You go in, 
 click on a few objects, fight in maybe 20 total different types of interiors, many with the SAME 
 floor layout. And that's about it. There are Team Force extended missions but they get very similar 
 to each other too. City of Heroes really needs to work on developing more varied missions.
  
  PvP in special arenas in several cities was another recent free add-on to the game and curiously, 
 no one seems to be utilizing it at all. Strange.
  
  I look forward to City of Villains, but only if they improve the highly repetitive mission structure. 
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Vozzo
Rating: 9
Date: May 23, 2005 12:00 am PT
Review:  This game instantly drew me in over all other MMORPGs for one reason, you can be a super hero! 
 Ever since I was a kid, and I know many of you here also think this, I've wanted to be a super 
 hero and have super powers. Flying, super speed, super strength, the works! You get to do all that 
 in this game.
  
  As soon as you enter the game you have to make a charecter. You have a choice between a Blaster, 
 Tanker, Defender and Controller. As a blaster you have one job, use ranged attacks to take out 
 enemys. Now while being a blaster, you should always keep a good short ranged attack handy. A tanker 
 combines good defence and good offence for a great combination of mele attacks. A defender heals 
 and defends the other party members. The controller uses magic to control enemys and such.
  
  Now that you have a charecter picked out its time to customize! You have litterly MILLIONS 
 of combinations of colors that you could do with your charecter. There are a bunch of little masks 
 and paints and what not to keep your charecter truely unique.
  
  When you enter the game you have to go through an interactive little tutorial which is the same 
 everytime you create a new charecter. You have to go from point A to B, talk to new contacts, beat 
 up baddies, get expierence points and the such. When you do that you are dropped into the fast-paced 
 world of Liberty City. You basically keep doing quests ala the usual MMORPG formula.
  
  The graphics is pretty good. They're not the best out there but they're nice. Sound gets very annoying 
 very fast and I usually turn off the ingame music and throw some tunes on Winamp.
  
  This game overall is very nice and I think deserves a go for a while. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dbzfreak
Rating: 8.7
Date: Mar 25, 2005 6:13 pm PT
Review:  Let me start by saying I have been playing since launch and I have seen some nice improvements 
 since it's debut. The game is not awesome, but it is definitely fun to play through. You basically 
 get to create your own hero from scratch and wander around the city saving people from crime. The 
 only let down that this game has is there is no pvp but that'll change pretty soon here when they 
 release the next patch. Then you'll be able to have one on one fights or team battles. Which will 
 definitely be fun. Any ways now that I'm done ranting, on with the review.
  
  Gameplay
  
  The game is setup for a variety of people. You have 4 main archtypes to choose from when you 
 start off. Blaster, Tanker, Scrapper, Controller, and Defender. In essence the blaster is like 
 a sorceress because they rely on ranged attacks. The tanker and scrapper is like a knight because 
 they attack at close range and have better defense. The controller is almost like the blaster but 
 has a better balance between offense and defense. The Defender is usually the healer and helps 
 buff your party; so they can raise your defense or attack in some cases. Each archtype has it's 
 advantages and disadvantages. The only thing that may anger some people is the fact that some archtypes 
 are extremely easy to solo with while others are not easy at all. Take for instance the blaster, 
 when you start off it is very hard to wander around on your own, how ever as you level and earn 
 experience it becomes easier to be by yourself.
  
  Battle is easy and simple to catch on to, but it also has depths in some ways. For instance you 
 can slot abilities and add enhancements to them. Depending on what you choose to slot may affect 
 how much damage your guy does or how much damage your character can with stand.
  
  The best thing about the game is forming Supergroups which is very helpful because you can form 
 friendships and have more people to team with if you end up stuck some where. Supergroups also 
 can get missions specifically designed for a Supergroup.
  
  The only downfall to the gameplay is the grinding. Level grinding can be a bear between certain 
 levels. The key to overcoming this though is to sidekick a higher level. The sidekick system allows 
 lower level players to team up with higher lvl people and fight at the same level. It's a neat 
 way to help move the leveling along should you become stuck.
  
  When you die in the game, it has some thing called a debt system. The way it works is it calculates 
 your level when you die and accordingly gives you a fixed amount of debt. You work off debt by 
 defeating bad guys. Debt cuts your xp in half so it's important too loose it. The beauty of the 
 game though is that you can exemplar lower level people. By doing this all your xp that you would 
 get goes to pay off debt. Therefore you get out of debt a lot quicker than you would if you were 
 just fighting with out exemping.
  
  Graphics
  
  The game looks like a comic book, which is what it was set out to do. So the graphics are nice. 
 There are a few glitches here and there but overall the game looks great for an MMORPG. Not the 
 greatest but it looks decent.
  
  Sound
  
  Sound in my opinion is perfect for the game. The explosions from your fire blaster hitting some 
 one sounds great. When the guys die you hear them groan before they croak. They even have a sound 
 playing when your are near some thing you need to find so if you go on a mission and need to find 
 something you don't spend 3 hours trying to find it.
  
  Value
  
  With all the updates I've seen and future ones in the works, it's definitely worth the monthly 
 fee. Plus when City of Villians comes out it will introduce even more possibilities.
  
  Tilt
  
  I'm partial to the idea creating my own hero so my tilt is kind of high. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mark123321
Rating: 8.6
Date: Mar 17, 2005 5:08 pm PT
Review:  NCSoft has created an MMORPG named 'City Of Heroes'. Well what do you do in this game I wonder? 
 The title is a bit of a give away, but basically your a hero living in Paragon city and fighting 
 the forces of evil. From the videos and the screenshots, you can plainly see that NCSoft have taken 
 mmorpg's to a new level of customizability in the City of heroes. And as you play it, it grows 
 on you even more. Every 2 levels you go up, you gain a new power to defeat evil villains in the 
 game. You can create supergroups, also known as 'clans', you can team up with your mates to complete 
 missions together, and you can even earn badges that you can show off to everyone. NCSoft are updating 
 City Of heroes all the time with new and improved items etc. Although there was no PvP in the start, 
 in the following patch that is coming very shortly, PvP arena's will be introduced into the game. 
 And talking of PvP, a new expansion pack is in the works, called 'City of Villians', where (yes 
 you guessed it) you can become the evil one in the game, and actually fight in real time PvP against 
 heroes that own the City Of heroes! So as you can see, the game is in full flight, with updates 
 popping from your ears! There are lots of things you can do in the game, and many features included 
 are unique to City Of Heroes. So ive played it for 1 month ( In the beta test ) and 1 month outside 
 the beta, and this is my review of the game:
  
  Gameplay - 8 / 10
  
  The gameplay in the game is rather good, you become a hero, and citezens even thank you if you 
 rescue them. The missions you have to complete are massive, and teaming up is a blast! But why 
 have I given this a 8 / 10? Because of its nact of repeating its self. The missions are big, but 
 you find your self in the same looking building as the mission that you last finished. The mission 
 objections vary, but most of them are some where around the lines of 'Defeat 10 Villains' or 'Defeat 
 so and so and his men'. Being a hero in the game has its advantages though... When you reach level 
 6, you can open up a 'power slot' these are special powers that you cant get before getting to 
 level 6, these powers include: Hover (Slow flying) , recall friend (teleport a team mate) etc. And 
 when you get to level 14 and above you can get powers such as: Fly (normal flying) , Super Speed 
 (running super fast) , Super Jump (jumping from building to building) . The powers in the game can 
 keep you amused for hours on end, and are really fun to use!
  
  Graphics - 9 / 10
  
  For an mmorpg, City Of Heroes has pretty good graphics. The heroes have a wide range of clothing 
 and items you can select. In the up and coming patch that is being released soon, you will be able 
 to choose a much wider range of clothing and even change settings on your characters (such as fatness 
 etc.) There are shadows casted off of some buildings and trees, but thats all. Heroes have little 
 small dark spots on the floor as shadows, but nothing to fancy.
  
  Sound - 9 / 10
  
  The sound in the City Of Heroes, is pretty good. Each power you select has individual sounds. (and 
 trust me there are a lot of powers!) Also there are certain 'emotes' you can perform with sounds 
 that are produced from your hero! Also everytime you enter a new area in the game, music for that 
 area is heard, and they are pretty cool. As you go past some of the cars that are going by, you 
 might here there stereo blasting, which creates an enviroment unlike any of mmorpg.
  
  Value - 8 / 10
  
  The monthly fee you have to pay to play City of heroes, is very competitive 
 to other mmorpg's, but some of the other games are cheaper. I played for one month in the europeon 
 beta test and 1 months paid, and now I have quit. I quit because in some areas of the game, you 
 have to dedicate quite a lot of your time around your hero. But all in all its a pretty cool game 
 where you perform as a hero and fight the evil from paragon city!
  
  Overall - 8.6 / 10 ( Great )
  
  Overall, this is a fantastic mmorpg, and with the updates that 
 are being created and the expansion pack well on the way, this game looks like it could go far! 
 But I do recommend you take a trial before you buy the game, so you can have a small tester before 
 you pay out!
  
  Thanks for reading,
  
  Marky 
::::::

::::::
UserName: abysslegion
Rating: 9.7
Date: Mar 16, 2005 12:20 am PT
Review:  I have been playing City of Heroes (CoH) since its conception. I have seen most if not all of what 
 this game offers. If you need further evidence to add validity to my review please visit my site 
 AbyssLegion. com
  
  I have read through few reviews and found it very concerning that others have purchased the game 
 and quickly make judgments based solely on what they THINK they know of CoH. Please dont listen 
 to the statements made by earlier reviewers about the game having no depth and being monotonous.
 
  
  They have come to this conclusion because they have not played the game through. 
  
  The game starts you out as a weak hero, still learning the ropes and struggling for a place of 
 honor alongside the great heroes of ages past.
  
  In time you gain credibility with city officials and are assigned progressively more important 
 missions of greater impact on a citywide and eventually global scale.
  
  You are never bored due to the ever changing landscapes and missions based on your heroes power 
 and influence. From fighting thugs on the street, to destroying huge mutants, to taking down alien 
 threats on their own mother ship, to taking on intergalactic foes in alternate dimensions.
  
  Thats pretty cool, but thats all right? WRONG, every 3-4 months a new patch adds new exiting 
 features like new landscapes, new costume options, new powers (on top of the 300+ already available) , 
 new villains lairs to destroy, new abilities (last patch added the ability to shape shift to a 
 gigantic energy beast) and the list goes on.
  
  All in all, youll thank yourself for spending that extra $15 per month, because you wont WANT 
 another game for a long, long time.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Echo13791
Rating: 8.8
Date: Feb 27, 2005 5:18 pm PT
Review:  This game is a great game, very addicting, great gameplay. First of all, you can create your own 
 hero. You can choose what type powers he has (you can't get the fly technique until you get to 
 lv.14) . There are many different areas/cities that you can access in the game by going on the metro. 
 I made a blaster that specializes in fire. He can shoot fireballs, he can conjur up a fire sword, 
 he can even make it rain fire over your enemies head! It is just really fun. Now, the part that 
 annoys you (every game has one) , after the first free month, you have to pay $15 A MONTH (if you 
 want to keep playing) . As I said, I liked it, but my wallet didn't. If you are really rich and 
 you like RPGs, then get this game. But if you are like the rest of us, having to work for money, 
 then I would advise not to. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: geesquared
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jan 26, 2005 2:40 pm PT
Review:  An awsome game that is content rich with a great deal of playability! Well worth the monthly fee 
 since there are 11 servers where you can create up to eight characters per server. So you do the 
 math! Despite some lag times during peak hours, the game has been smooth and easy to get a handle 
 of once you start your first character. You'll definitely be hooked! Cryptic and NCsoft are continually 
 working on adding new material so there's never a period of boredom. Tech support is very responsive 
 and helpful even in game problems get solved after a brief waiting period depending on how things 
 are going in the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FTW000
Rating: 9.8
Date: Dec 28, 2004 7:39 pm PT
Review:  I have been playing Coh for over 6 months and the only problems i can find with the game is the 
 fact that i havent left my bedroom in about that long :) , Coh has a great community, its extremly 
 rare to find someone that will not be willing to get up and give you a hand. As for the game its 
 hard to find any flaws in it, the debt system is welcome relief over games that are constintly 
 downleveling you, and once you have a good supergroup created, debt is easily removed.
  
  The game also has no inventory apart from a system called enhancments, wheres you can enhance your 
 excisting powers with enhancments, adding greater damage to your punches, or better healing to 
 your regeneration and so on so forth...
  
  Also with the constant updates that ncspft are bringing to the game, it cconstantly makes you wanna 
 go back to level 1 and start all over again just to see whats new, not that your level 50 couldnt 
 take advantage of the new features, but its also fun to go back and try out the different classes 
 of charecters.
  
  All in all i think City of heroes is a great game that has made a severe dent in online gaming, 
 i just hope city of villians will not bring in pvp and ruin it all for us.
  
  If your ever online my character is the masked claw, say hi!! :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LORDOderus
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 14, 2004 12:28 am PT
Review:  I just got this game last nite, because my friend kept saying how great it was and wanted me to 
 play with him, so I bought it. Now before I go on I have to say that for one I am not a fan of 
 massive online multiplayer rpgs, I have beta tested lineage 2 and that is when I started to sort 
 of like them, anyway I decided to pick this game up. First things first, the shear amount of possibilities 
 you can have to create a character blew my mind, I spent almost 45 minutes making my character, 
 and the best part is that you can make around 8 characters in total to play with. I am not very 
 far yet I am a lvl 5 mutant but the city is huge and that is just the part that I am allowed in 
 right now, there is always someone to fight as ppl are always getting mugged or harrassed by gangs, 
 and your abilities are totally cool at least the ones that I have seen, like people flying or like 
 my guy has rock armor where I turn into this huge looking rock figure which resists more damage, 
 I cant talk too much about the features and abilities as I am very new to this and need more time 
 to explore but it is nice to be able to do what I want when and just explore is very cool. I do 
 recommend this game if you like rpgs and can pay the monthly fee. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cbx69
Rating: 9.8
Date: Nov 24, 2004 2:19 am PT
Review:  I have only played Star Wars Galaxies, and Final Fantasy XI. All I can say is that City of Heros 
 TRUMPS BOTH OF THEM! SWG is just another EQ clone with a space twist.. Its the sad truth! And Final 
 Fantasy XI I only wish had more of a quest based leveling system. You still need to grind. With 
 COH you could do such things in the sewer system of Perez Park, which are 2 of my favorite leveling 
 places right now. Or just keep doing little missions which get you introduced to new contacts and 
 harder missions. Once in a while you may need to spend time getting to the next level just so you 
 can get missions from a new contact. Instead of normal levels, you have Security Level. Which basicly 
 means Level but if you don't have a high enough one you can't get into Hazard areas. Anyways I 
 give COH a 10 outa 10 cause it has broken the mold in the world of copy cat MMO's.
  
  This game will be even made better with the new powers such as "Climbing" (like Spidey or Nightcrawler) 
 and the Villan Expansion pack. Plus the monthy Comic ROCKS!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tysonius
Rating: 9.4
Date: Nov 15, 2004 5:56 am PT
Review:  CoH rocks, no doubt about it. I can't even guess how many hundreds of hours I've spent online since 
 I started playing it. The character creation process alone has eaten up hours and hours of my time; 
 and that's without even saving the characters! The graphics are wonderful, both the character models 
 and the scenery. The power sets are different and interesting, the costumes have an enormous amount 
 of variety, and the missions are for the most part initially absorbing as well. Finally, the visual 
 effects and sounds are just second to none!
  
  Still, I've got a 25th lvl scrapper who spends her time with her supergroup doing missions, area 
 exploration and random wandering (I like sitting on skyscrapers) , and I'm beginning to wonder where 
 all of this is going. I think NCSoft did a great job avoiding the Everquest-like leveling treadmill 
 with bugs and whatnot, but I'm beginning to feel that I'm back in the rut, and am actually spending 
 time playing other games again. I think City of Villains will do a lot to reinvigorate the game 
 and community, but for now I'm feeling a little bored. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SSboricua88
Rating: 9.6
Date: Nov 13, 2004 2:05 am PT
Review:  City of Heroes is a fun game once you start playing (unlike other MMORPGs) . The Character Creation 
 is superb, and you will enjoy making a variety of characters. CoH has a wide variety of powers 
 for all classes and archetypes, which are fun to watch The basic point of CoH is beat up bad guys 
 and level up, unfortunately nothing more to it. This results in a short enjoyable gameplay experience. 
 After you reach about level 10, the game starts getting repetitive and boring. City of Heroes is 
 a good and fun game, but with not much depth resulting in a short enjoyable experience. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thec1arity
Rating: 7.9
Date: Nov 12, 2004 12:42 am PT
Review:  When I first got this game I was in awe. Your first impression of the game is the character creation 
 and it is insane. I literally spent an hour or more just messing around with character options 
 and trying to get my character to look as "cool" as possible (In a geeky way) . Unfortunately that's 
 where the depth ends. City of Heroes comprises of a bunch of super heroes that go around and beat 
 up bad guys. Think of it as a less violent, prettier and MMORPG version of State of Emergency. 
 Kill baddies, get inspirations & experience, rinse and repeat. Questing could be fun when in groups, 
 but generally is extremely boring by yourself. Not to mention, you get a little tired of staring 
 at the same cityscapes every time you login. 
  
  City of Heroes can be fun though. I mean, how can you not like watching your superhero perform 
 a bunch of cool superhero stuff? Who wouldn't want to be able to fly or shoot ice from their hands? 
 I quickly became bored of flying around and beating up baddies after weeks of playing and found 
 myself searching for another MMORPG that offered more depth and content. City of Heroes does little 
 to keep the attention of MMORPG players outside of those who are into comic books and those types 
 of themes. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: askme1now
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 24, 2004 5:02 pm PT
Review:  I've played CoH for about three months. My only other MMORPG experience is the Matrix Online beta. 
 I tend to play stuff like Half-Life (single-player) , Warcraft III (multi and single) , Jagged Alliance, 
 Knights of the Old Republic.
  
  City of Heroes is still very new, so it has less content (zones, missions, items, etc.) than some 
 current MMORPGs (though less bugs, too) . Even so, it's not the kind of game that you play for years, 
 so don't worry about getting sucked in. There is no economy, crafting, PvP, etc. There is no roleplaying 
 to speak of. This really is more of a multiplayer action game than a roleplaying game, with super 
 powers instead of guns. People create characters, play them for a few weeks, then make another. 
 If leveling is what you care about, then you can get a character to the level cap in a few hard 
 weeks. If leveling is not what you care about, then you'll probably just get in the classic CoH 
 cycle of creating new characters every week or two, then quitting after a couple months. Leveling 
 is the name of the game. This is not Evercrack. This is an MMORPG for an ADD world: pretty and 
 simple.
  
  Here's what makes CoH different from every MMORPG out there AND makes it more fun to play than 
 just about anything you own right now: 1) Combat is BEAUTIFUL: the particle effects and spells 
 are just amazing. I have no idea how they are going to sustain that when PvP comes out next year. 
 2) Awesome developers. They read everything on the forums, they play the game, and there really 
 are NO major bugs distorting gameplay. 3) Costume design. This sounds dumb, but having a character 
 that looks absolutely nothing like anyone else right from Day One makes a big difference, especially 
 when you're playing for weeks at a time. 4) Major (and free) updates every two months (new zones, 
 new trials, etc.) , not to mention city-wide events with increasing frequency (e. g., alien invasions, 
 etc.) .
  
  You might hear people say that it gets boring after a while. Just keep in mind that they've probably 
 been playing for a couple months. What other game do you have that you could play for several hundred 
 hours before it started to get boring? But overall, I'd say that if you want action, buy a good 
 first-person shooter or RTS -- they're cheaper and less addictive -- and if you want roleplaying, go 
 for a more traditional MMORPG like the upcoming WoW or EQ2. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: optimal
Rating: 8.6
Date: Oct 13, 2004 8:30 pm PT
Review:  This is a great game for rpg enthusiasts who like to build up levels. That seems to be the only 
 thing keeping me coming back. Gameplay is bland and straight forward. Find a mob, attack it, gain 
 the experience and move on. Mob A. I. is poor. But this game is really simple when it comes to combat. 
 So A. I. I guess really isnt that important. Its as good as it needs to be basically. 
  
  Customization is what makes this game stand out. You will definitely be able to make a super hero 
 that best reflects your style. I have both a classic looking super hero and a more futuristic looking 
 super hero. This game does an outstanding job when it comes to character creation, nuff said.
 
  
  Ive read a lot of user reviews that say this game is only fun for a month. Not entirely true. 
 Playing as the same character can get boring, since after you reach level 30 the game play is very 
 repetitive. If you are looking to play as every archtype, this game will most likely keep your 
 interest until the end of this year. 
  
  This game for me is just to hold me over until World of Warcraft comes out. And its doing an awesome 
 job doing so. After every sitting, Ive walked away satisfied and ready to come back to coh. 
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: snake22
Rating: 6.2
Date: Oct 12, 2004 8:26 pm PT
Review:  After that it can fall flat for some people though. I did enjoy the game and got to a medium level 
 before I gave up on it. The gameplay was smooth and I never really had a issue with server stability 
 (and I am on dialup) , The game lost me on the slower side of leveling and a very linear way to 
 do it. After awhile of doing missions you can easily have every mission zone memorized and even 
 know where mobs will be stashed. The player community for this game has been good so far and willing 
 to wait for the devs to add mucho content and areas to make up for the massive amount of people 
 flocking to this game. 
  
  Quick Rundown, 
  Character creation rocks and so do levels 1-14... after that the game becomes VERY repetious and 
 boring. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: muska23344
Rating: 9.6
Date: Oct 3, 2004 4:56 am PT
Review:  This is one of those games, that should only be done once, and by Cryptic Studios. This game is 
 awsome. I say only once because more than once would ruin it. This game is just so revolutionary. 
 It is totally gonna raise the bar for MMORPG games everywhere. This game is definately worth the 
 15 bucks a month. I end up playing everyday, and its so addictive. Be able to finally become what 
 we all have wanted to become as a kid is just AMAZING! I am pretty sure everyone at one poit wanted 
 to be a superhero. If not then you suck, and were never a kid. Anyways this game is the mother 
 of all MMORPG's. GET IT! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Xiaor
Rating: 9.6
Date: Sep 18, 2004 11:09 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay: 
  
  The gameplay in COH is pretty good, from the busy streets to the indoor areas. The overall experience 
 is solid. The gameplay is smooth with little hickups, quick load times, only when switching from 
 indoor to outdoor or from main area to another main area. Theres a hand full of quests to start 
 you off in the world of COH, and it brodens as you meet new ppl and help them out, you get more 
 contacts and more "jobs". It's takes a decent amount of time to lvl up, so you'll have to spend 
 some serious time to get up there but getting from lvl 1-10 can take you 15-25hrs with friends 
 or 25-35 hrs by yourself. So you see that teamwork plays a big part of COH, and as such joining 
 a group is very beneficial.
  
  Graphics: 
  
  COH looks very good, nothing amazing, for it; s time it could have looked better, but that is a 
 big load on the servers, so as such to reduce lag etc they've kept the graphics at a very good 
 rate. Looks great and feels great.
  
  Sound: 
  
  All the sounds of the city sound very well done and help get you feeling you are in a big city. 
 All the sounds in combat are great, and sound perfect. Exaclty what you would expect from a cartoon 
 based game is what you get here. 
  
  Value: 
  
  This is hard to tell, if your a hardcore gamer, your one month free period might be all you need, 
 and thats all i needed and i was happy, i only got to lvl 17 but i was happy wit hmy purchase. 
 If you really enjoy comics then maybe this will stick with you longer. It's a personal choice and 
 as such is hard to say. Its diffently worth it if your enjoying it, but if your not, then enjoy 
 your free month and by that time another game will come around.
  
  Overall: 
  
  Very Addictive Game! Hooked me for a month, just couldn't hook me and my wallet. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Metron4
Rating: 7
Date: Sep 14, 2004 10:35 pm PT
Review:  Given the variety of heroes populating the servers, its obvious City of Heroes has enough diversity 
 to keep most players running around in tights for years. And with new content arriving on a regular 
 basis, it would be hard to cry tedium this early. But for all the effort put forth, there is much 
 currently lacking.
  
  * Gameplay: Captures the spirit of solo and team hero playing, but it can become repetitive. Players 
 need more to do than beat up thugs. I'm not too thrilled with the power selection limitation either. 
 It creates an annoying tendency to run across others who may not look like you, but certainly fight 
 like you. Updates should help.
  
  * Graphics: Huge diversity in heroes due to an in-depth creation stage. Power effects are over 
 the top and cool to watch.
  
  * Sound: A campy episode of Batman has better sound effects than this game. Big fights get drowned 
 in noise.
  
  * Value: Huge levels and plenty of missions mean lots of game time, but Im having a hard time 
 justifying a monthly fee. Should have offered SOME offline content.
  
  * Tilt: This is my first MMORPG and I enjoy it a lot. I am an old school comic fan with strong 
 opinions on the state of the industry. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ironmaiden_1
Rating: 9.3
Date: Sep 14, 2004 5:47 am PT
Review:  A great addictive MMORPG that will make you stay up playing for about 5 days. To start of it has 
 a great hero creation and it also has very cool superhero powers. There are powers like Ice Blast, Mind 
 Control, Super Strength, etc. Now the gameplay it is good but has some lagging issues and some bugs. The 
 bad thing is there are no skills like mining or things like that. There is also a very cool enhancement 
 system. The story line is different like if your a blaster you have a different story line than 
 someone who is a controller. Lvling starts slowing down at about lvl 7 though. To lvl faster you 
 will have to team up with some other heroes. So if your looking for a great addictive MMORPG this 
 is one so i recommend you pick this up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: miggl
Rating: 8.2
Date: Sep 7, 2004 6:39 am PT
Review:  The gameplay is pretty straightfoward. Its about getting new powers to have your hero evolve. To 
 get new powers you need to level up. So in short, this MMORPG is nothing more than a level-grind 
 with lots of neat decorations. What is good about this game is that the dev team is constantly 
 adding new plots and expanding the world. Also, there is no house-mongering like there was in games 
 like UO, no item or gold hoarding. Its a very social game where people gather and team up to beat 
 up on the bad guys (no PVP, yet) .
  
  Graphics are on par with the average MMORPG these days. Lots of particle effects and a decently 
 large world (the City of Heroes world is split up into various parts of the city, which will load 
 when you cross a server boundary) .
  
  Sound is pretty good. However, it can get very annoying with repetitive sounds, i. e. powers that 
 are always on. Did I say it can get extremely annoynig? ;-) Fortunatly some good players have found 
 work-arounds to replace sounds, or even turn off sounds.
  
  For $15 / month you get to play an MMORPG these days. The copy costs you $40 if you get it off 
 the store shelf. Value is on par with most of the other MMORPGs out there. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: scottyg_20
Rating: 7.7
Date: Aug 28, 2004 10:54 pm PT
Review:  I bought this game, loved it for a bit, character creation is the ebst of any game. but it gets 
 old fast. i found i got bored of my characters fast. and didnt have enough to strive towards. The 
 missions are a great idea and are fun. One downside i found was that the people who usually play 
 MMORPGs werent the only ones playing. I say downside but also mean upside. Its good cause there 
 is more people to play with, but also bad because many of them dont play the way people like me 
 are used to. I got no problem with them playing. Let them run around killing on their own and dying, 
 and never learn how to communicate. the problem was when these people got into groups, and didnt 
 play as a team, and wouldnt even try to learn and caused death for us who know what we are doing.
 
  
  Anyway if you find the right people to play with, or some friends, it will easily fix that. The 
 fun i think will come with the PVP in city of villains, i will be waiting till then to reactivate 
 my account, unless WoW draws me in more.
  
  Good game overal, specially because its open to all sorts of people with varying times ot play. 
 Easy to play this game for 15 mins and still have fun.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: lanzajr
Rating: 8.8
Date: Aug 25, 2004 11:06 pm PT
Review:  As far as MMORPG's go, CoH is fairly simplistic in that there are no trade skills, no looting and 
 no camping mobs. However, the lack of these characteristics is what really makes CoH stand out, 
 and I really enjoy the fast paced gameplay. Every fight is constant action, and grouping with other 
 heroes creates a dazzling display of powers. And being able to completely customize your hero's 
 appearance is so much fun. The character creation engine is probably the best I've ever seen.
 
  
  This game does have it's downfalls though. The combat can become repetitive if you are soloing, 
 and at higher levels it's pretty much impossible to solo unless you play a Blaster. Granted, all 
 of the archetypes are fun to play, but the Blaster has a marked advantage over the others. 
  
  All in all, I love this game and recommend it to MMORPG players and comic fans alike. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ioden
Rating: 8.8
Date: Aug 24, 2004 5:14 am PT
Review:  Now, let me say that City of Heroes is my first MMORPG ever, and might be my last. I've heard from 
 many sources that it's the best MMORPG out there, and if it already has some flaws that keep it 
 from being perfect, I have no desire to play any other MMORPG's since they're almost all worse 
 than this game. Now, onto the review.
  
  City of Heroes rocks. There, plain and simple. It's the best superhero game I ever have and ever 
 will play, and I have played Spider-Man 2 (on the PS2) . It gives you the most powerful character 
 creation tools ever made by mankind. You can choose your archetype (controller, defender, blaster, 
 scrapper, tanker) , your power-sets, and your powers, quickly make a costume, and start beating 
 up thugs in one minute flat. Or you can customize every part of your look, from hair to shoe, and 
 write an origin- and battlecry (which your character screams when you press F10) - for your character 
 on your Hero ID, which you can change at any point in the game. Either way, you can be out on the 
 streets fighting for freedom within two minutes or ten minutes. It depends on how you choose to 
 make your character. But the latest update, Through the Looking Glass, places a store in three 
 parts of Paragon City. This store is called ICON, and for an Influence (City of Heroes' in-game 
 currency) fee, you can re-design your costume. And at level 20, 30, and 40, you can complete special 
 objectives for the owner and earn extra costume slots, which you can use to have variations of 
 your costume for each occasion or even a normal clothes-wearing secret-identity version of your 
 hero!
  
  After the amazing character creation, you start off in, like most games, a tutorial. It's unskippable, 
 but it's pretty quick and it gets you to Level 2 before shipping you off to one of the newbie zones, 
 Galaxy City or Atlas Park. In the tutorial, thugs have used stolen drugs to become a bit more powerful 
 and threatening, and you have to run around the zone to talk to a few people before you end up 
 raiding a small building and stealing some documents for the police. Then you go to one of the 
 newbie zones, and start being in the, for the most part, open-ended city.
  
  In this city, purse-snatchers are robbing everyone and their grandmother (pun intended) , undead 
 surgeons are trying to cut up civilians for body parts to make more undead soldiers with, little-but-poweful 
 wind-up robots called Clockwork are stealing metal from all over the city, and gangsters are trying 
 to break into cars and buildings. The beauty of it all is that there's always a place for you. 
 The newbie zones have level 1-3 enemies, the semi-newbie zones have level 4-8 enemies, the moderate-newbie 
 zones have level 9-16 enemies, the medium zones have level 17-23 enemies, the moderate-pro zones 
 have level 24-30 enemies, the semi-pro zones have level 31-37 enemies, the pro zones have level 
 38 and up enemies. No matter what level you're on, you always have a place to go where the enemies 
 are ideal for a hero your level.
  
  Whenever you want to, you can talk to one of your contacts. Contacts are normal humans who work 
 with heroes. They give them missions, new contacts, and run enhancement (power upgrades) and inspiration 
 (the superhero equivilent of potions) stores. They're everywhere in Paragon City, but you can only 
 talk to contacts that your contacts have introduced you to.
  
  There are tons of story arcs. Undead, different gangs, magicians, high-tech Nazi's, wind-up Clockwork... 
 there are tons of stories, and usually you have a choice of which mission you take, which affects 
 which missions you take in the future and which contacts you meet in the future. There are also 
 tons of mission types. Go in a cave and recover jewels from a magician, stop a gang war, stop a 
 Clockwork boss and find out his plans, hunt types of enemies in the streets, stop the undead from 
 stealing corpses from the mortuary via the sewer system... there are finite types of missions, 
 but they are all slightly different in their own way. Plus, with future updates (the next one is 
 coming in September of 2004) on the way, more enemy types, missions, and zones are being added 
 for higher-level characters so that you always have missions to play.
  
  Now I'll talk about the most important part, leveling up. You get to add enhancement slots (so 
 you can use more Enhancements for the powers you add more slots to) on odd-number levels, and you 
 get to earn new powers and, past level 6, power-pools. You always feel rewarded for leveling up, 
 and when you get a cool new power, you actually are rewarded. Powers include flight, teleportation, 
 super-jumping, super-speed, invisibility, healing, faster regeneration, attack powers, defensive 
 powers, speed powers, and other things. Every power you have can be enhanced with the Enhancements 
 you earn from victory or buy from stores, but only certain enhancements work with certain powers. 
 For example, Flight Speed enhancements work with Flight, but a Damage enhancement wouldn't work, 
 since Flight doesn't do any damage.
  
  The graphics are simply rich. It's an entire city, much like Grand Theft Auto, only you can interact 
 with civilains to hear local gossip, statistics, the game world time, or other things. The textures 
 are beautiful for the most part, the view distance is up there with Far Cry's as jaw-droppingly 
 amazing, the lighting changes with the time of day, and the cool particle effects of the powers 
 are just mind-numbingly beautiful. The sound is also great, with good music kicking in occasionally 
 and great sound effects.
  
  The flaws are in the game's nature. Sure, beating up bad guys is fun and all, but after a month 
 or so, its novelty and charm wear off a little bit. But if you're willing to look past the repetitive 
 nature of most of the missions and of most of the combat, you'll find a good game after all.
  
  Sure, the game isn't for everyone. If you can't afford to pay a monthly fee, this game isn't 
 for you, and neither is any other MMORPG. But if you can afford to spend time and money on an MMORPG, 
 City of Heroes is worth your time. Even if you're fed up with all the mediocre EverQuest clones 
 being shoveled out of developers, City of Heroes can renew your faith in the genre. Not only is 
 it the best MMORPG out there, but it's an awesome game by itself. If you've ever wanted to be a 
 superhero in a city that's in constant peril, this game is for you. Trust me, you won't regret 
 it. And neither will I, since I'll still be playing this long after the cool new expansion pack, 
 City of Villains, comes out early in 2005. The game is just that good. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: scottishhaig
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 19, 2004 11:45 am PT
Review:  City of Heroes is simply a blast to play! It offers what almost all other MMORPGs have failed to 
 deliver up to this point... a quick release of pent up energy. You can log on to play for 30 or 
 1 hour and actually accomplish something in game in that short amount of time. Granted, long missions 
 will probably take up more of your time, but street hunting can be done anytime. Great graphics, 
 good sound (though I must offer that the sound effects for some of the hero powers can grind on 
 one's nerves after a time) , the character creation system is incredible and offers a multitude 
 of options. I've yet to see two characters exactly a like in over 3 months of play. CoH does suffer 
 from 'grind' in later levels 30+. It takes a lot of experience to advance your character at these 
 levels and certain ATs (Archetypes) to tend to perform better than others in this regard. My advice 
 it to just take your time... if you want a game that will allow you to rocket to the highest level 
 in the shortest amount of time CoH may not be for you, but if you like playing with friends (and 
 even some strangers) CoH is a fantastic! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: geldonyetich
Rating: 7
Date: Aug 11, 2004 5:57 pm PT
Review:  City of Heroes is only partly based on the traditional Diku-mud derivative MMORPG - the other part 
 is into a unique class all of it's own. This is perhaps what should be expected from the first 
 Superhero themed MMORPG.
  
  You can create and customize your own Superhero based on five different general focuses of gameplay, 
 a selection between a moderate range of powers, and extensive costume design. The power selection 
 would be more enjoyable if it were able to meet every character concept, but the powers that are 
 there are reasonably good. I particularly had fun coming up with a background for my characters, 
 which really made the game feel more alive.
  
  The environment itself I like to call Grand Theft Hero. You're looking at a well detailed steel 
 jungle that even includes some enterable buildings. Bystanders walk the streets. This is a very 
 well realized city, and the only MMORPG I've seen to take such an approach.
  
  It's my opinion that the best thing about City of Heroes is that the combat is extremely involving. 
 You are expected to fight more than one foe at a time, and you have several interesting powers 
 at your disposal that need to be manually synced to use at just the right time. Many of these powers 
 have interesting effects outside of the normal MMORPG genre: Throwing enemies back, tossing them 
 up into the air, levitating them, holding them in such a way as they cannot retaliate as you hit 
 them, and more. Super Hero characters mean super hero potency abilities. You can choose to learn 
 powers that allow you to run faster than a speeding bullet, jump over tall buildings, and fly through 
 the air.
  
  So it is that City of Heroes, at least at first, is quite fun. However, there are several issues 
 that appear later which cause the game to become somewhat less enjoyable at about the level 14-20ish 
 mark.
  
  First, at about the level 14-20ish, the leveling rate really slows down - to about the level you 
 would expect of a MMORPG. This is a bit of a shock to the system because it goes from being really 
 fast to being really slow in a hurry. Who ever knew that beating up hordes of bad guys could actually 
 feel needlessly repetitive?
  
  Second, while City of Heroes is fairly well balanced for soloing, it is not nearly as well balanced 
 for grouping. Getting in a super hero team is easy enough to do, but trying to find challenging 
 gameplay for a super team is tough. If your group fights outside, such as in a Hazard or Trial 
 zone, what usually will occur is that a few members of your group will flatten just about anything 
 you come across. If you try taking on foes higher level than that, the reward is capped against 
 you and the mobs are nearly untouchable. If you take an instanced interior mission, it will usually 
 either be far too easy or far too tough. Interior mission difficulty is based on the level of the 
 player holding the instanced mission, your group make up, the number of your players in your group, 
 and a slight random influence. This translates to an unbalanced mess.
  
  What ultimately killed City of Heroes for me was a lack of overall defined purpose. Prior to playing 
 City of Heroes, I never thought I'd be telling myself: Fun is not enough. Not for $15 dollars a 
 month it isn't, apparently. Due to the issues with grouping I've outlined above, and the resulting 
 preference for soloing, there was no real social hook for me in City of Heroes. Because the mobs 
 constantly respawn anyway, it's not like ay of my acts seem to possess broad-reaching consequences. 
 Running around at level 23 with my Claws/Regenerating Scrapper, I looked out at the thugs patrolling 
 Paragon City, and realized I just didn't care anymore. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MatrixCPA
Rating: 9.1
Date: Aug 4, 2004 2:36 pm PT
Review:  City of Heroes game-play includes nearly all the features you expect from an MMORPG today: strong 
 avatar customization, varied archetypes (classes) with a wide array of powers and skills, instanced 
 missions, and an array of foes to defeat. After playing the game for a couple of months, I still 
 find the game very enjoyable to play. To date, the game still lacks player versus player capabilityhowever 
 that is slated to be included in the release of City of Villains. Much of the time youll find 
 that grouping is so much more efficient than solo play that its virtually necessary. At the same 
 time, there are few things as satisfying as having a good group where each member is filling their 
 role. Considering how short a period of time the game has been out, I expect things to only get 
 better as more content and features are added. The developers seem very interested in what the 
 player community has to say and attempt to address issues quickly. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BayonetRecon
Rating: 9.3
Date: Aug 3, 2004 7:26 pm PT
Review:  It's an excellent game. It's easy enough to pick up and learn how to play. Coming from DAoC, AC1 
 and AC2 (and a few others) I found this game to be a refreshing change from the typical fantasy 
 MMO. Character creation kicks butt! Combat is fun and the different powers makes it very unique. 
 
  
  The negatives right now are time between updates, lack of major events, and the current balancing/tweaking 
 of archetypes. With the amount of time I spent playing since it was released, I was always eagerly 
 looking for updates (fixes, new things, events, etc.) but it seemed like forever. There were a 
 couple of updates which messed things up. I'm not talking "end of the world" type of stuff, but 
 they were the type of things that made you wonder what were the devs thinking. It's taken them 
 some time to "correct" some of the problems. For Update 1, they hyped it's coming release too soon 
 and teased us with the constant promise of "coming soon". When it finally came, it was a bit disappointing. 
 Don't get me wrong, there were some good things in there, but between the questionable tweaks, 
 the delay in Update 1 -- it was somewhat fustrating. Then there are the in-game events. They have 
 the power to do these whenever they want. The devs have said it themselves. But there hasn't been 
 any major events since the end of beta.
  
  Perhaps between DAoC and AC, I've been spoiled with frequent updates. :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sw0rdfish
Rating: 6.6
Date: Jul 29, 2004 8:55 pm PT
Review:  At first I fell in love with this game! What a concept! Comic book superheros as a Massive Multiplayer 
 Online Game! After that wears off, you're left with ... "Now what"!
  
  Like many other MMOGs out there, the cool factor only lasts about a month, maybe two, and after 
 that there has to be something there for players to reach for... Something more than just the next 
 level! Frankly I'm tired of just reaching the next level. I want to be able to log in and do something 
 else... maybe read up or discover some Lore, or just sit down and make some items. Unfortunatley, 
 this game has neither... most things you do require a team, and there are absolutley no items in 
 the game, only a few powerups! I found that the high end gaming was non-existant... it's the same 
 thing as day one, only the MoBs are a little tougher.
  
  Thumbs up on the sidekick feature, allowing high level characters to let their low level friends 
 fight along side them... but after that, there's nothing but a sweet looking costume, and a lot 
 of experience points to gain! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ridz1981
Rating: 3.9
Date: Jul 22, 2004 5:28 pm PT
Review:  The only reason there is a high score for this game is because those who've given it a high score 
 only played it for about a month or so. Which is about how long you can play it to get a morsel 
 of fun out of this over rated game. I admit, the first week was awesome, the many ways you can 
 customize your hero, and then at the very beginning you arn't forced to killing little meaningless 
 creatures in order gain levels, you're thrust upon crime fighting right away, but after all of 
 that, really... the game gets very bland..... and it happens fast. After gaining your levels, after 
 playing countless of missions, you find that you are playing the same missions over and over, and 
 you are fighting the same thugs over and over. There's nothing beyond it, you play it for a month 
 and you've literally seen it all. So yeah I would say this game was a waste of money, if you have 
 it in your hands right now, just EAGER to open that sucker up, I beg you, get your receipt, take 
 your copy of City of Heroes back to the store and get a refund. Opening it up is opening pandora's 
 box where it will release unspeakable evil of you realizing that you've just wasted $40!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ElijahMrE
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 19, 2004 1:51 am PT
Review:  The screen loads up Before you is a strong, slender man dressed in black with bolts of lightning 
 designed along his arms. His hair is slick and his eyes glow an alluring white. Before you, Melchizedek, 
 a technology blaster whos soul thrives on vengeance. Who is this man? His is one of thousands 
 in a City of Heroes. As I walk Melchizedek through the city I am in complete awe of what I see. 
 Skyscrapers touch the clouds. People walking around aimlessly, yet hold a purpose. And amongst 
 the massive city there is a super-hero on every block. Superheroes created by folks just like you 
 and me.
  
  Im not much for RPGs, let alone a MMORPG. But, since the announcement of The Matrix Online, Ive 
 found myself needing preparation for a whole new genre of gaming. My choice - City of Heroes. 
 The last thing I expected was to find myself engulfed in a massive world where hundreds upon hundreds 
 of people can play around the world. It is superb!
  
  The first, and my favorite, aspect of the game is the character creation. Not only can you choose 
 what type of superhero you will become, but what he/she will look like. A player can choose from 
 thousands of options from which to authentically create his character. I must have spent an hour 
 deciding how I wanted my character to look. This was by far the most fun I ever had just in starting 
 a game.
  
  Although most missions seem to require you join a team, it helps develop friendships and comradeship 
 amongst players. Also, if you are not a PC gamer, the controls will take a little getting used 
 to but boy is the frustration worth it. Once you get the hang of the game, its like riding a 
 bike You just dont want the road to end!
  
  I still have a lot to learn from this game, but ultimately, Im sure Ill be impressed the deeper 
 and deeper I go!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: legolasdk
Rating: 6.6
Date: Jul 14, 2004 5:27 pm PT
Review:  City of Heroes is a fun game for a while, it offers great graphics and the ability to create many 
 different kinds of superheroes. This game keeps your interest until you realize it is the same 
 thing on every mission and you dont get much reward for it. You can upgrade your powers but eventually 
 you realize that this is your only incentive for doing missions. If you are looking to collect 
 cool stuff and go on huge quests this is not the game for you. It is a pretty game and fun for 
 a while but ends up being very monotenous. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: normal01
Rating: 5.4
Date: Jul 13, 2004 1:35 pm PT
Review:  This game is a good Beta nothing more. It misses in a major way depth and there's not a high replay 
 value. No PvP = no reason to caping your caracter to level 50. I've been playing this game since 
 it's release date and unfortunately did not find a way to keep me hooked on the game. The big flaw 
 of this game is the xp. You gain less xp killing a boss in a mission than killing a random mob 
 in the street. The rewards are not unique since you can find them in any store. Costume edition 
 is cool for the first month, but the new update did not include any new accessories wich make the 
 styling of your caracter simply useless. There's no advantage of forming a super group. This is 
 just a Diablo MMORPG with cool super hero outfit. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rmadridfan9
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jul 10, 2004 6:46 pm PT
Review:  City of Heroes is the angel from heaven for every comic book fan who wanted a cool superhero video 
 game. I must say that when I was first talked into buying it by the guy working in Gamestop I was 
 very skeptical. At the time I had been playing Final Fantasy XI and was not looking at changing. 
 However one time during one of FFXIs long maintenance sessions I thought I would pop City of Heroes 
 in and play it for a bit. I havent touched FFXI since.
  
  The graphics in this game are very well done. The detail does leave a little to be desired at times 
 but when the size of the city and all of the fully done buildings and cool little alleyways are 
 taken into consideration, its not important. There are many little nooks and crannies in the city 
 to chase bad guys into. Overall I give graphics and aesthetic appeal in this game an 8.
  
  Another awesome aspect of the game is the huge character creation process where you can make an 
 individual character (in other words you wont meet ten people who look just like you) . As long 
 as you are original in your ideas the chances of meeting a clone are very, very slim. You can choose 
 whether to be a male, female, or huge (a big beastly looking hulk-type character) . Then you get 
 to pick between a huge variety of faces, jackets, helmets, tights, t-shirts, tank tops, boots 
 the list could go forever.
  
  Gameplay in this game is extremely combat focused. It is not like other MMORPGs where you can do 
 non combat almost economical activity (i. e. auctioning, fishing, mining) . You level in this game 
 through combat. You make money in this game through combat. You boost your powers through combat. 
 There is no other way. You can trade influence (money) with other players for enhancements or inspirations 
 (both covered later) but that is one of the only economical things you can do in this game. Thankfully 
 the combat interface is easy to learn and to use. You can click on individual powers to use them 
 or use the keyboard, whichever you prefer. Gameplay in this game gets a 9. I would give it a 10 
 but because of the lack of side quests and other non combat activities it doesnt deserve one.
 
  
  Powers are boosted using enhancements. Enhancements are semi permanent items that can be tacked 
 onto a power. Enhancements do things such as boost damage or reduce recharge times. Inspirations 
 are temporary power boosts used when things look grim. Some inspirations boost attack power or 
 accuracy or things of that nature. Inspirations only last thirty seconds but that is usually long 
 enough. Unlike almost all other RPGs this game lacks an inventory. You can carry up to 10 enhancements 
 that are not tacked onto an individual power but that is all.
  
  Another aspect of the gameplay also is part of the wonderfully diverse character creation process. 
 You must pick your archetype which determines the powers you receive and the way you fight. The 
 archetypes are blaster, controller, defender, scrapper, and tanker. Blasters are long ranged damage 
 dealers with a low defense. Controllers have a low defense and use their powers to hold large groups 
 of foes and inhibit their attack powers. Defenders boost the attack powers of their allies and 
 hurt the attack powers of their enemies. Scrappers are melee damage dealers with a high defense. 
 Tankers are melee attackers who take a lot of damage but remain standing due to their high defense. 
 Your origin is also another decision that will need to be made. You will have to choose between 
 being a natural, science, magic, mutation, or technology hero. Your origin has little effect on 
 the gameplay but it is still a nice touch.
  
  Sound in this game is amazing. All the bams, bops, and smacks will blow you away. The sound effects 
 are very diverse and are all appropriate to the situations they are heard. Though no characters 
 speak, that is hardly important to the overall role sound plays in this game. I give sound a 10.
 
  
  I personally feel that this game is beyond value. It is very interesting that you can spend hours 
 playing this game and it will feel like nothing. In most MMORPGs (at least for me) after an hour 
 or two it gets old and you have to get up and do something else. City of Heroes keeps your attention 
 because you know as soon as you get 500 more experience points you can get that new power you want 
 or use some new enhancements. If you are into comic books and superheroes then you will agree with 
 me that as far as value is concerned this game gets a 10.
  
  Reviewers tilt for me is a 10 because I love superheroes and MMORPGs so this game is for me. If 
 you arent into crushing bad guys and saving the planet then this game isnt for you. 
  
  So overall I give this game a 9.3. I felt that it was an excellently put together work with few 
 glitches and a lot of replay value. Thanks for reading! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: agentzed
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jul 7, 2004 8:58 am PT
Review:  Great piece of work, really nicely made, perfect for the gamer who loves superheroes or the gamer 
 who loves combat! There are no other things to do besides fighting, but there is alot of content 
 to it. They have alot of powers and 5 archtypes, however they are very limited to their powers, 
 because it works in levels, YOu gain a power every even level, and you can't fly or use super speed 
 right away, you gotta wait till level 14 to get it. This game has many pros and cons, but with 
 the City of Villans expansion coming out next year, the games gonna really rock! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Phenyks
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jul 6, 2004 2:33 pm PT
Review:  I was a MMORPG-hold-out for a long time, until I recently discovered EAs soon-to-be-deleted Earth 
 and Beyond. When the announcement was made to pull the plug on that game in March 2004, I got 
 out fast. Why should I waste my time leveling up a character into oblivion? Pining over the loss 
 of my virtual E&B avatar and the friends he had made, I cast my critical eye out to find another 
 deeply satisfying community-based MMORPG. Ever the skeptic, I waited until I heard a report from 
 a friend who adores the recent game, City of Heroes. 
  
  I went out and bought it in July 2004, and lo and behold, here is an experience to rival that of 
 the abandoned worlds of Earth and Beyond! The character options are staggering, the interface is 
 simple and powerful and teaming up with others to smite evildoers is so easy. Im slowly easing 
 into the community culture of this game and its truly exhilarating.
  
  Im a little disappointed in the sound of City of Heroes. Ambient city noises are great, up to 
 a point, and I do find myself humming the Atlas Park theme music throughout my workday, but I 
 want more, like my own archetypal theme song: Spider Guy, Spider Guy. Hes so hungry hell eat 
 a fly.
  
  Other than that, Im very happy with my investment of time and money in this game.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: NeoRaven78
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jul 4, 2004 12:49 pm PT
Review:  This game is the same old same old day after day. The graphics are okay, the sound is almost non-existant, 
 and the gameplay is simple and straight-foreward. The missions are all basically the same and are 
 the indoor levels. Fore example, I cleared out a nightclub that looked exactly the same as a warehouse. 
 There is very little variety to this game at all except for the costume creation system. It is 
 great and easily the most fun part of the game. I've spent hours just making up new costumes.
 
  
  That being said, City of Heroes is still fun as hell. I find myself addicted to this game more 
 than any other game I've ever played (& Yes, I have tried many MMORPG's and only Dark Age of Camelot 
 comes close) . Every evening after work I log on and don't log off until it's much later I would 
 like. The technical aspects of the game suck but it's both FUN & ADDICTIVE. Highly recommended. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Freddy
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jun 27, 2004 1:48 pm PT
Review:  We all once wanted to be super heroes when we were young. COH let's you be that and join up with 
 hundreds of others online to tackle on thugs and super villians. I have a lot of fun playing COH 
 because it's easy and there is no grinding involved. The option to choose different types of abilities 
 makes the game more fun and interesting to what you can create. 
  
  The graphics are great and the animation of powers and weapons you use are fun. It's especially 
 fun when you have a group of 3+ and most of them are shooting special powers at enemies at the 
 same time. It's exciting to group and not all that bad when doing solo missions.
  
  What's up with the citizens when they chase you all over the place just to say "thank you" or "I 
 believe in Capes". What capes? This is what probably hurts the game when most of us expected capes 
 in the game. Hopefully this can be implemented in the next version "City of Villians". 
  
  The sound is a little boring. I love games with great sound because it puts you in the game. You'll 
 here a little sound when you enter certain areas, but I like to be motivated with a great theme. 
 
  
  I find myself playing this game at work and home. Let's hope they add a few more features to the 
 character creation. One of my favorites would be stance. Every super heroe has a different stance. 
 If you were to create a character that looked like Spider Man, wouldnt you want to give him that 
 crouching stance? 
  
  I love this game and it will succeed even more once City of Villians comes out.. It will give us 
 an opportunity to PVP and show off our skills.
  
  Gameplay 9
  Graphics 9
  Sound 8
  Value 9
  Reviewer's Tilt 9 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chaincat
Rating: 8.2
Date: Jun 13, 2004 10:48 pm PT
Review:  City of Heroes is the perfect MMORPG for the newbie game player or the player that can't spend 
 hours everyday playing a game. It's great for the casual player. This is both a benefit and a problem 
 for CoH. It is very easy to learn how to play CoH, most of the interface is pretty intuitive point 
 and click. 
  
  The problem is that the game lacks depth in the long run. The game has the best character customization 
 in any game that I've ever seen with virtually any idea for a super hero's look or theme being 
 possible. (Except capes, what a strange thing to leave out for a super hero game) However, the 
 robust character customization is lacking throughout the rest of the game.
  
  Simplification can be found everywhere. While good for a casual gamer, for an experienced gamer 
 this can be extremely disapointing. For example, you do not pick or modify stats like health or 
 strength, instead you select new powers (that often are merely variants on powers you already have 
 or powers that are completely underwhelming) and then boost up those powers with enhancers and 
 enhancer slots. More on powers in a moment.
  
  The other major jaw clenching simplification: there is no inventory to speak of. You can't get 
 boots that increase your speed, gloves that help you punch, armor that protects you better, at 
 least not in the sense that you may imagine. Instead you get 'enhancements' that look like little 
 hockey pucks with different abilities branded on them. For example you can find damage enhancers 
 that, when inserted into a fighting skill, increases the amount of damage that your super hero 
 does when using that skill. Later enhancers are specific to your character's origin so a technology 
 origin character may get an enhancer that is a cybernetic upgrade or something similar. Which sounds 
 cool but there is exactly zero difference in your character except your power is a bit stronger 
 after the enhancer is installed. If I put a head band on my character why shouldn't I see that 
 reflected in their appearance?
  
  A common theme throughout the game is slow growth in strength and power. There are some powers 
 that immediately increase one's power immensely when one gets them but these are few and far between. 
 For the most part powers increase in strength very slowly and enhancers only marginally increase 
 the effectiveness of a skill. Especially at the earlier stages these enhancers are very underwhelming. 
 Often you can only appreciate a character's increased prowess when you make a new character and 
 realize just how slow they sprint around, how little damage they do, etc. 
  
  A suitable metaphor could be watching a tree grow. It's very hard to notice changes day to day, 
 a bit easier month to month, and easy year to year. With characters in CoH after the first 5-10 
 levels it's hard to see progress hour to hour, a bit easier to see progress day to day, and noticable 
 week to week, especially if you have other lower level characters to compare to.
  
  This, combined with the lack of customization and depth after character creation made the game 
 start to feel more like treadmilling than having fun saving Paragon City. At higher levels you 
 start seeing more different and interesting villains but from levels 1-20 or so it seems like you're 
 just wandering around beating up different variants of street gangs with a couple other factions 
 thrown in to spice it up a bit. After 'patrolling' and killing 10 members of 'x faction' for the 
 umpteenth time the missions start getting monotonous.
  
  Groups can often be fun and to a degree it is almost necessary to fight in groups to gain experience 
 at a decent rate after level 10 or so. (Some classes are easier to solo, ie blaster, than others, 
 ie defender.) Character classes have been balanced well for groups. A great group consisting of 
 a few blasters (for damage) , a melee fighter or two (to manage agro) , and a defender and/or controller 
 or two (to assist your team or perform crowd control) is a very powerful force that can usually 
 fight enemies several levels higher than the average group level. It is almost always beneficial 
 to join a group to do missions or patrol. (Unless the group wants to have tea time and just sit 
 around chatting, which is more common than you may think)
  
  The graphics are serviceable. Some powers look truly amazing while others are very mundane. The 
 city has nice looking downtown areas and burned out areas that look like they've endured carpet 
 bombing. The detail can vary from very rich to bland and just brushed over. CoH could use more 
 oversight by GMs or stronger filters as many costumes are pure titilation factor or pure ripoffs 
 of famous comic book heroes. This is especially true as the servers grow more saturated.
  
  The sound is more of a sidenote in CoH. Laser beams and explosions sound ok but the city doesn't 
 sound alive enough and the music only plays for about 30 seconds after you enter a new area. On 
 the other hand forcefields and some other powers have extremely anoying sounds that recycle as 
 long as the power is turned on. This gets very monotonous very quickly, imagine having a washing 
 machine-like sound follow you around eternally. While some players have figured out how to tweak 
 or hack the game to solve this issue for some powers it should really be the programmers who should 
 resolve that issue.
  
  In conclusion City of Heroes is a fun game with limited replay value. There is a lot of novelty 
 in creating one of each type of character just to try them out but in the long run the lack of 
 depth cheats the game of the greatness that it might otherwise achieve. The lack of variety in 
 missions and the lack of finding new and exciting items prevents a Diablo II like 'gold fever' 
 from setting in. The rewards aren't great enough to motivate one to keep going.
  
  There should be roleplaying specific servers or more monitoring as the immersion of the game is 
 immediately shattered when someone named 'Nekkid Gurl', 'Captain Cannibis', or 'Wolvereen' joins 
 your group. CoH is definitely fun for a month or so but it can lose it's charm after that when 
 the treadmilling sensations start setting in. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: masdecke
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jun 10, 2004 8:28 am PT
Review:  For the most part this game is excellent, no viable complaints. The character is generation is 
 by far one of the best aspects of this game. I would go so far to say that it is best I have ever 
 experienced and I have fairly large game collation as a reference. The only real complaint that 
 I could perhaps note, is that the game play at times can be a little repetitive. However, it is 
 still amusingly addictive, supported by a solid foundation of quality game structure full of features, 
 ample tasks to complete and by no means least of all, an abundant amount of really great gamers 
 to interact as well as team up with. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: VISent
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jun 10, 2004 3:36 am PT
Review:  An mmog thats actually fun? Whod have thought it but thats exactly what City of Heroes is. The 
 key difference between this game and others in its category is its simplicity and instant appeal. 
 You create your hero; join a group of players and kick-ass, plain and simple. This game doesnt 
 frustrate or patronise you with time consuming chores or geeky virtual etiquette. To this end hardcore 
 RPG fans with a fear of sunlight should probably steer clear as the game doesnt offer the depth 
 of play or tedium to justify sweating in a dark room for 10 hours a day. With City of Heroes you 
 can actually log-on for an hour at a time and actually achieve something with your character.
 
  
  Graphically the game is functional, with an adequate representation of a huge metropolis. The player 
 heroes are what really give the game its personality and atmosphere  literally every character 
 you meet looks unique and sports individual abilities thanks to the games excellent character 
 generation system. In crowded areas of the map its hard not to laugh at the assortment of hilarious 
 freaks around you  flying, leaping, sprinting or just hanging about chatting.
  
  All in all an excellent mmog that actually delivers on the promise and excitement promised from 
 the marketing blurb. And with thousands of active players and a new super villain expansion due 
 out this game should have long legs too.
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: chibi-acer
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 6, 2004 9:36 am PT
Review:  Probably the best feature of CoH is the character creation. I hope more games use the idea of building 
 characters from selecting different styles for each part of the body (rather than just picking 
 skin color, head, and body) .
  
  CoH is great fun to play, but I got bored after 40 hours or so of gameplay. The problem is that 
 after level 10, it takes ridiculous amounts of time to level, and once you hit level 14 and get 
 your travel power (fly, jump buildings, superspeed, or teleportation) it seems like there isn't 
 anything left to look forward to. Since there are no special items to collect, it doesn't have 
 the staying power that other MMORPGs have.
  
  All of the indoor missions pretty much involve killing all of the bad guys in a certain area. Hopefully 
 they'll add some new features and mission types to the game, but right now there isn't enough for 
 me to continue playing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: phatbrain101
Rating: 7.8
Date: Jun 3, 2004 2:17 am PT
Review:  So far I like this game alot, no game is perfect but this game is easy to get into, easy to find 
 groups and you feel satisfied whether online for 1 hour or 8 hours. I just wish there was a tad 
 more to do then just beat up the baddies based on simple missions. I don't know see myself playing 
 this game long, but so far I've been enjoying it.
  
  I played EQ for a little over a year; til this day it's my favoriate mmorpg, but the huge bad side 
 was it took to much time so I quit; but have come back to play sometimes. SWG was fun but not enough 
 content/loot and in-game upkeep felt like real-world tax so I quit that. 
  
  That's why I worry about CoH, as fun as it is.... I think I'll honestly get bored in under 4 months... 
 beating up baddies all day long with nothing else to do will get boring to me eventually.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sys14
Rating: 5
Date: Jun 2, 2004 9:15 pm PT
Review:  I didn't review this game? I thought i did, now i will review it again... Such a great game!
  
  This is a game designed for ME! cos i am a very different gamer. Sometimes, i can play a game 
 for a whole day, but sometimes I only want to spend 1 hour or less to play a game then go out to 
 find some real world game. COH is a suitable for both of your purpose. The gameplay is fun, I really 
 love solos, that's how i played in most games, but here, play with other games is fun for me too. 
 cos you don't need to worry about spending time to join a team or leave a team. You can instantly 
 form a team with another hero on the street, and when you guys killed 2 orange mobs, you can leave 
 the team. No hard feelings!!! And if you want to solo, this game is far more better than other 
 MMORPG, some times, i even think it's a multiplayer game designed for single players. You don't 
 worry about finding missions, you don't worry about money, you don't worry about team, you don't 
 worry about anything, you just go to kill, polish your power, and have fun!
  
  Yes, i haven't metioned on the character creating process. This THING should be a standard for 
 EVERY MMORPG!!! You know what, i got 6 characters on Liberty server. AND, how long did i spend 
 to create them? haha, i think about 10 hours? yes, it's so fun! Not only because you can create 
 a unique looking hero in this game, but also you can really create a UNIQUE hero in this world! 
 I do think some of the characters created by the players can really be a comic star.
  
  Arrr, there still a lot of to say, but I have to go now. The last words should be comparing this 
 game to other MMORPGs. I played Everquest, for 1 year, i love it, but at the end, it made me feel 
 really really tired. Player should never stick to a game that deep, i call that a failure of the 
 game, not a success. And i played Anachy online, DAOC, they are not bad, but too similiar to everquest, 
 and played Planetside, which is fun in the begining, but can't last for 2 weeks. COH is a game 
 beat all of them, i think maybe i will feel bored, but now, 1 month away from the begining, i still 
 love it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Alec-Eiffel
Rating: 8.2
Date: May 28, 2004 8:59 pm PT
Review:  When is too much saturation in an already over-saturated market really TOO much? Just ask the dozens 
 of company's releasing sub-standard and broken Massive MultiPlayer Online RPG's. Luckily, Cryptic 
 Studios offers a new and exciting look on the down hill market with City of Heroes. No more days 
 of killing rats with your long sword so you can grind to the highest possible level for the sake 
 of being the best player there is. You are in the more modern setting of Paragon city, which is 
 sprawling with living and breathing people. And instead of killing dozens of rats as basic enemies, 
 you are fighting more realistic gangs and evil humans that have supernatural powers used for wrong 
 doing (a big no-no in Paragon City) .
  
  The thrill of City of Heroes starts off with a bang with the games terrific character customization. 
 Each piece of apparel you choose for your character to wear has its own sub menu and lists many 
 different details that can be applied to your costume. Of course, before you can do any costume 
 creating, you have to choose a particular archetype, there are five to choose from: The Blaster; 
 who makes up for his lack of defense with a myriad of powerful offensive maneuvers. The Tanker; 
 a good addition to any team by absorbing large amounts of damage. The Scrapper; who isn't capable 
 of taking as much damage as a Tanker, but he is adept at dealing huge amounts of melee damage, 
 he is a giant among giants at hand to hand combat. The Controller; with rather weak powers and 
 meager life, isn't for newcomers to the MMORPG genre, especially those who aren't willing to use 
 her very useful gravity/confusion attacks. The Defender; the essential piece to any team who is 
 looking for an effective all around figher AND a player who can provide for healing and offensive 
 buffs. With these five archetypes in mind, it won't be difficult to find the right character to 
 fit what type of role you want to fill. A factor that often detracts from the game is the fact 
 that every time you create a new character (which will happen quite a bit) , requires that you go 
 through a monotonous tutorial that cannot be skipped.
  
  There are also a plethora of powers to choose from, although, many of the maneuvers that are in 
 the same power set tend to be very similar. There are also power ups called insipirations that 
 serve as a temporary boost to your  "Enhancements" are permanent 
 augmentations (unless you remove them) to your powers. Different enhancements have altered affects 
 depending on which powers you apply them to. There is also the ability to combine them to allow 
 more space for more enhancements. During the earlier stages of the game, the interface is clean 
 and streamlined, for the most part. Yet, when you reach the later levels, the screen will be cluttered 
 with several different trays that make routine activities a hassle. The economic system is quite 
 poor, especially without any real sort of trading, auctions, and the questionable idea of NOT recieving 
 a substantial amount of "influence" (what money is called in City of Heroes) when you complete 
 a mission.
  
  City of Heroes is going to keep you busy for a month, maybe two months at the most. It just doesn't 
 have enough variety to keep you playing for an extended period of time compared to games like Everquest 
 or Dark Age of Camelot. Keep in mind that the two months that you do play City of Heroes is going 
 to be packed with action and entertainment. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: seriphinx
Rating: 7.3
Date: May 27, 2004 7:31 am PT
Review:  Well to start with, I have played pretty much every MMORPG out there. This game has some pros and 
 cons like everything else. So to make it simple, Im going to divide them up in those two categories.
 
  
  First, are the Pros:
  Best damned character creation I have ever experienced.. As far as looks go, there isnt a game out 
 there that can touch the creative freedom you get from this game. 
  The Powers you get overtime as you level up are awesome... constantly leaving you thinking about 
 what to pick next to further enhance your hero. 
  The Graphics are great, I tried this on a high end machine 3.0ghz and then on a low end 850mhz 
 P3 and with a decent video card, I still got decent frame rates and a nice crisp city to look at.
 
  The Backstory is cool since, depending on what type of hero you become, you might have a certain 
 arch-enemy type faction that you are after.
  
  Now for the Cons:
  The sound is about middle of the road. The sound effects of your powers are neat, but the music 
 is rather bland.. but then again, in a mmorpg, most may even prefer for the music to be somewhat 
 out of the way, since concentration is a must in this genre.
  Even though the powers you receive are nice, after a few levels, around 9 or 10 especially, you 
 still get that grinding feeling that comes from leveling and watching your exp increase inch but 
 ever loving inch.
  These next and final two gripes I have are pretty much just personal things.. but for one.. and this 
 is gonna be hard to explain, but.. well.. I just dont feel like a super hero based in a game where 
 I dont see any familiar faces since this game is not licensed by Image, Marvel or DC Comics. I 
 keep thinking how much nicer this would have been to have been involved in the legitimate comic 
 worlds than this one. It just feels slightly, generic, I guess is the best word for it. 
  And Lastly, we've all grown up witht he comics, cartoons and the movies.. what made the heroes so 
 special were that we saw them on their own battling against whatever enemy.. when I say alone I 
 mean, just them!! No other heroes around, unless it was a crossover of some sort. I mean Spiderman 
 has his own city to look after, X-Men do their thing without every other hero poking their nose 
 in every 5 seconds.. Basically, what Im saying is, from a roleplaying standpoint, I just dont feel 
 super when Im seeing every other variation of a hero running past me every 5 seconds. You get that 
 feeling of "this town ain't big enough for the several hundred of us." Not to mention that even 
 though your character might LOOK original, theres someone out there already thats close enough 
 with the same basic powers, so they are basically the same person as you are. I can't count how 
 many "Fire blasters" that all that orange red and black that I have seen on just one server. In 
 my mind this would have been a better game if the worlds were limited to amuch smaller group of 
 people so that those of us that were there might actually feel important and super.
  
  Again those are just personal gripes. 
  
  On the flipside, if you are looking for a break from 
 the ArgueQuest, Ultima Suxxors Online, Final Noobies XI Online, then give this a shot.. It should 
 last a while before the players actually start to ruin it :)
  
  You know I speak the truth, sheep!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Norgrim
Rating: 8.4
Date: May 25, 2004 3:00 pm PT
Review:  COH is the first mmo i've played. I was going for the average use type of mmo and after reading 
 several reviews, I came to the conclusion that this one would be the best. So far I've enjoyed 
 the game, trying to get used to all the other avatars is the hardest part for a first timer. The 
 game plays smoothly with very little delay in load times and lag. I would not recommend using dial 
 up, however you have to do with what ya got. I was hoping for more gameplay info from the manual, 
 although it does give all the pertinent info to play the game proficiently. I'm a little disapponted 
 in the monthly fee, which means we need more people to sign up so the cost will drop. The graphics 
 are fantastic and appear to be seamless. Overall this is a very unique, entertaining, and challanging 
 game. It's not the normal RPG and I think that's what I like the most. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fiddlecub
Rating: 8.3
Date: May 25, 2004 12:20 pm PT
Review:  Wake up, true believers, and welcome to a new concept in online RPGs, where pure enjoyment takes 
 precedence over grind, and cool superhero powers overshadow unwieldy inventory systems and spawn 
 camping. This is the world of NCSofts hero-themed MMORPG City Of Heroes, a refreshing entry in 
 a crowded genre, and perhaps the first true original concept amongst games that often prize clunky 
 combat and tedious exploration. City of Heroes is a welcome addition to a growing list, and while 
 its focused gameplay and somewhat shallow character development may not satisfy experienced role 
 players for long, newcomers and those needing fresh air in a stagnant genre will be thrilled with 
 the first imaginative online experience in years.
  
  As with most online games, narrative takes a backseat to actual gameplay, although City Of Heroes 
 story provides the necessary backdrop to a swashbuckling good time. Paragon City has been home 
 to heroes with mysterious powers since the time of the Great Depression, and is now rebuilding 
 after a devastating war with an alien race called the Rikti. New heroes are arriving to deal with 
 the lingering Rikti threat and the street criminals taking advantage of the besieged city. The 
 story is told through the comments of passersby and other key NPCs, and while it is not an afterthought 
 as such, it takes a secondary role to what is essentially an online extravaganza of criminals and 
 heroes. 
  
  The character creation process is perhaps the most humorous and detailed yet created in a game 
 of this type. There are five main archetypes: the Blaster, who specializes in ranged offense; the 
 Controller, who affects villain behavior but does relatively little damage and has few hit points; 
 the Defender, a healing and buff specialist with some significant ranged attacks; the Scrapper, 
 a master of hand-to-hand combat; and the appropriately named Tanker, who soaks up even more damage 
 than he dishes. Within these archetypes, a player will choose both a primary and secondary set 
 of powers. For example, a Scrapper may have claws as his primary offense, but also has access to 
 dark melee skills, which drain hit points from enemies and replenish his own. The physical customization 
 of your hero is peerless, with seemingly infinite varieties of armor, clothing, and other paraphernalia, 
 ensuring that if you can imagine a superhero, you can also create him. Currently, you are limited 
 to creating a good guy; player villains are planned for an upcoming expansion, but are not yet 
 implemented. 
  
  Soon after you create your avatar, you will enter City Of Heroes training area, where you learn 
 gameplay basics. CoH features perhaps the most accessible interface created for a game of this 
 type, and it does not interfere with the main focus of play: combat. While most games of this type 
 feature other elements, such as trade skills or crafting options, City Of Heroes strips away all 
 of those diversions. Players may also be struck by the complete lack of items and inventory. The 
 only items to be found in Paragon City are inspirations, which act as temporary buffs; and enhancements, 
 which increase the effectiveness of your powers. You will also earn influence as you fight crime, 
 which can then be used to purchase inspirations or enhancements, but you will find plenty of them 
 as loot from slain enemies. This original system strips away kill-stealing and most player disputes, 
 but also points to what may be the games biggest liability: lack of depth. Once you have created 
 your character, his physical appearance will be unchanged, and any equipped enhancements are invisible 
 to other players. While this may intrigue some who prize gameplay over cool loot, many will be 
 frustrated that the hard work they put into their hero will go unnoticed by other players. 
  
  Fortunately, combat in City Of Heroes works extremely well, and unlike in other online RPGs, 
 is satisfying and compelling. Special effects from weapons and powers look fantastic and seem powerful, 
 and group combat in particular requires a degree of strategy from each member. Characters are well-rounded 
 enough to make soloing a viable option for several archetypes, and solo missions can be finished 
 off rather quickly. The crux here, though, is grouping, and player groups can consist of up to 
 8 players. Groups are easy to find and play with, and because heroes are so well-balanced, it isnt 
 necessary to build a group with traditional roles. While a group with 8 blasters may not be as 
 effective as a more balanced one, it is still a viable option, and keeps players focused on the 
 game, rather than on the mundane frustrations of group building. In a brilliant twist, players 
 can also adopt less experienced players as sidekicks, which evens the field between players of 
 diverse levels, and enhances the inferior attacks of the sidekick. You can also create guild-like 
 supergroups, and then assign officers, team colors, and more. 
  
  Finding combat is quite easy, and it comes in two varieties: missions and random crime-fighting. 
 Happily, Paragon City is teeming with criminals, and the citizens that walk the street GTA-style 
 will thoughtfully display text balloons to let you know where there is trouble. Humorously, a successful 
 battle will result in profuse thanks, as the citizen genuflects dramatically in your honor. Missions 
 are easy to get, as the game essentially leads you from contact to contact, and labels those contacts 
 as waypoints in the simple in-game map. As in Anarchy Online, missions are private areas that only 
 you and your group can enter, and they are tailored to the player or groups specific level. Unfortunately, 
 missions are really the ONLY diversion from random street encounters, which are plentiful but mostly 
 similar. 
  
  City of Heroes looks good and has a lot of style. Animations are terrific, and Paragon City is 
 impressive and colorful, particularly at high resolutions and detailed settings. Special effects 
 are the games highlight, and you may find yourself simply watching other heroes battling their 
 foes in the streets, simply for the entertainment value of those effects and animations. More importantly, 
 the game world is alive, filled with bustling pedestrians, cars in the streets, and brightly-lit 
 skyscrapers. Paragon City is not as interesting or as detailed as Liberty City, and relies on square 
 blocks, rather than on the more varied streetscapes of True Crime or GTA3. The upside of those 
 compromises is that even when the screen is filled with activity, the engine runs smoothly with 
 few hiccups. Sound is good too, but there is not as much as you may hope for. The musical score 
 is rousing but only kicks in during battle, leaving your downtimes silent, save for various battle 
 sounds or grunts when your hero jumps. 
  
  When all is said and done, City Of Heroes is a novel diversion that delivers a truly new online 
 experience. Its long term potential, however, is less clear. There is simply not enough breadth 
 or depth to make it the first choice for players looking for an extended role-playing option, and 
 very little to convince new players that MMORPGs are worth the monthly fee. For those willing 
 to take the game at face value, though, City of Heroes will still offer a month or two of old-fashioned 
 good fun. Anyone with even a remote interest in creating a superhero and fighting the forces of 
 evil in a persistent environment need look no further: City Of Heroes is a rip-roaring delight 
 that should satisfy even the pickiest gamers and comic book fans. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: snide
Rating: 7.7
Date: May 24, 2004 4:30 pm PT
Review:  Granted, it's better then any MMORPG that I've ever played, but it's still missing something that 
 this genre desperately needs. The great thing about the game is the action, of which there is plenty. 
 Unlike most MMROPGs the bad guys in the game are plentiful and will litterally fly across the screen 
 during combat. The bad thing, as with all games of this type, is that the battles often get repetitive. 
 While I give it an A+ for presentation and UI (this is the easiest MM to get into I've ever played) 
 it looses out on extended gameplay, which isn't much of a surprise. If you've enjoyed games of 
 these types in the past, you'll most likley enjoy City of Hereos as well. But for those looking 
 for the next wave, this isn't it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Furey
Rating: 9
Date: May 21, 2004 9:43 am PT
Review:  I played Ultima Online, EverQuest, Anarchy Online and Shadowbane.
  
  This game is very much like all 4 of those games, and unique in its own right. One thing I very 
 much like, and I haven't seen many people write this, is that there is a certain level of "twitch 
 factor" to this game in fighting. I play a "blaster" and blasters are in every online game - weak 
 hp guys who have very strong offensive attacks (spells or superpowers) . You can use terrain to 
 block yourself from their ranged attacks - so I constantly find myself running behind ruins, cars, 
 walls, buildings and balconies to use them to my advantage when attacking. Its very much like a 
 first person shooter in some ways.
  
  It also has some great missions - much like Anarchy Online tried to do. I wasn't impressed by Anarchy 
 Online's private missions but City of Heroes is very slick. Invite your friends and the missions 
 will get harder. Also the NPC AI is very intelligent. Mobs will flank you, support each other and 
 trick you (one mob ran away in the heat of a massive group battle of 5 players vs 5 mobs, and then 
 came back 2 minutes later while we were resting and attacked - killed 2 of 5 members with an area 
 attack!) .
  
  Problems with the game? Well you still have the normal "run around and kill" treadmill of every 
 online game. I very much look forward to City of Villians to add spice. The music is lacking, it 
 would be nice if you could play your own MP3s thru the game itself - after a while the music of 
 the game gets repetitive. Levelling does slow down after level 15 (for me) . You can solo in this 
 game to your hearts content but the real way to get good xp is to grouping.
  
  $15 a month too much? Its only $.50 a day, that doesn't matter to me. Hey, if you aren't playing 
 anything, get it - you will like it for at least a month... if not longer...
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: DerekLStinson
Rating: 8.3
Date: May 21, 2004 12:47 am PT
Review:  It is a blast to play if you are willing to fork out the cash for it. I find myself playing it 
 for hours at a time looking up at the clock saying, "Hey I should really get some of the things 
 I should be doing done now." But I don't I keep on playing this dumb game in which you can get 
 all of these really kewl super powers. I tried doing the blaster thing for a bit, but I always 
 found myself wanting a defender in the group. So I became a defender and lets just say that it 
 is so cool! I also find myself trying to jump to the top of buildings and jumping down. The physics 
 of the game are not that great, but hey when you find yourself at the top of a building and you 
 know that there are like 50 people in your area from all around the country. You would want to 
 commit hero suicide too. Well you really can't, but . . . it is just fun to jump off the thing. 
 LATE! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jonmase
Rating: 9.8
Date: May 10, 2004 9:30 am PT
Review:  OK, I'll be frank: i almost wet my pants when i first read a big article about this game in PC 
 Gamer about a year ago. It sounded sooooo cool to be able to make a hero and live out EVERY human 
 being on earth's childhood dream: to be a superhero. After much waiting (and almost forgetting 
 about the game while i waited and saw other cool things come through the pipeline) i was allowed 
 into the beta (thank you sooooo much gamespot) . Well, now that the game has been out for about 
 2 weeks now, i must say it has come a looong way in the 1 and 1/2 months (or however long its been) 
 since i got in the beta.
  
  In the beta, mapserver crashes were commonplace, as was horrible griefing by high-level players. 
 Even then, though, it was ten times better than any other MMORPG i have ever played (earth and 
 beyond, FFXI) . The game is now out, and it is BETTER than i could have imagined.
  
  Creating a hero is one of the best times i have ever had designing spandex (not that i ever did 
 that before CoH) . There are SO MANY options that finding your exact duplicate is (roughly) 1 in 
 1000000000000000000000.2. That may seem like i am exaggerating, but i have seen a LOT of heroes, 
 and none of them even came close to another when it came to costumes. The only way to make a duplicate 
 char is if you get the specs for the costume from your friend, if you are trying to make 2 of the 
 same chars. 
  
  Gameplay-wise, combat is not EVERYTHING, its just the only thing that matters. And unlike some 
 other games like EverQuest or Star Wars: Galaxies, or even Final Fantasy XI, you don't start out 
 killing bunnies and giant rats. You jump straight in the fray and start stopping crime or rescuing 
 Citizens in distress. Some people may be turned off by this, because they may enjoy selling items 
 or (dare i say it) Player-Killing to pass the time. There are items (enhancements and inspirations, 
 I will get to these later) and currency (or influence, as the game calls it) in the game, so while 
 it IS POSSIBLE to just create a character with the sole intent to sell stuff to others, you won't 
 have much fun doing it. Player-Killing is not implemented in the game, and that is a matter of 
 taste. In my opinion, I don't wanna start off at level 1 adn get mauled by a level 20 player looking 
 for kicks. I do not like player killing, and if it is implemented in City of Villians (the first 
 announced expansion) I hope that it is for fun, and not experience. 
  
  In some other games it would be bad that combat is the sole focus, but CoH pulls it off nicely 
 because combat is always fun, no matter what you are fighting or what level. It is actually entertaining 
 to go back to a low level area once you have outgrown it and pick off a few baddies that may have 
 killed you when you were weaker. Combat is great in this game, no questions asked.
  
  There is a HUGE variety of enemies to kill. There are three ranks of enemies, from the weakest 
 to the strongest: 
  
  Minions, the most populous, are the weakest of a group and generally form in small to medium-sized 
 mobs, usually with a leiutenant.
  
  Leiutenants, which occur less frequently, are tougher than minions and may have some special ability, 
 liek a machine gun or a laser beam.
  
  Bosses are some of the strongest foes around, and often lead a pack of minions and leiutenants. 
 they ALWAYS have a special power, and can be Extremely dangerous if not handled correctly.
  
  There are three special types of enemies that only appear st special or random times and places:
 
  
  SuperVillains are the main baddies of a group. They are the ones in command of all the monsters 
 or thugs below them. They are multiple times stronger than bosses, and it is almost mandatory to 
 have a team together when fighting them.
  
  Monsters are huge versions of Bosses, and can be even stronger than Supervillains. They occur randomly 
 and rarely in Paragon City, and if you find one, get a team together and take it out, for they 
 are always worth truckloads of experience.
  
  Underlings are byfar the weakest. They may spawn from bosses and are mainly an annoyance. Easily 
 taken out by even teh weakest hero, these are no problem.
  
  This brings me to the experience system. Every level you start out with 10 black wedges (or bubbles, 
 or orbs, these have many names) . After you fill up your experience bar, that experience is transferred 
 to the closest empty bubble and you start to fill up another bar. After filling up 10 bubbles, 
 you gain a level and the whole process starts over again. If you are killed by something, to do 
 not LOSE any experience, so you will Never level down. You instead get DEBT, which is a dark purple 
 bar that appears inside your current exp bad (and perhaps future bubbles if you have a lot of it) . 
 Whne you gain experience with debt, half goes to working off the debt, the other half goes towards 
 your experience as normal. BE careful, though, because your Maximum debt is half your needed experience 
 for the level. If you die constantly, it is possible to need 1.5 times as much experience to level 
 up as it would normally.
  
  Well, thats about it. I have to tell you that the game is gorgeous and it sounds good (not stellar, 
 but good) . The players are generally nice, and there is little to no griefing noticable, unless 
 you look for it. Anyone who has always wanted to try a MMORPG, this is a good place to start. Any 
 seasoned veterans of MMORPG's, you must play this game. I hope that it stays around for many years 
 to come, because if this is any indication as to what to expect in the future, it may De-throne 
 Everquest as the King of MMORPG's.
  
  I give it a 9.8 out of 10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jtek
Rating: 8.2
Date: May 10, 2004 9:29 am PT
Review:  Having extensively played Anarchy Online (plus all current expansions) , Dark Age of Camelot, and 
 beta testing Lineage II, I must say that City of Heroes has been the most fun I've had in a MMORPG. 
 
  
  The thing that sticks out the most when you start is the elaborate character creation system. This 
 alone is fun and can really take you a while to do if your particular about design.
  
  Once you're in the game you must run through a short tutorial that I thought was also fun but it 
 wasn't quite as informative as it should be. But you'll quickly learn the ropes soon enough as 
 CoH is quite intuitive and lite on the menus.
  
  The graphics are excellent. They are rich in color and very much remind me of a cartoon or comic 
 book. The game engine also runs very well, even on mid-range systems.
  
  The sound is good but it would be nice to hear some pedestrian chatter.
  
  Level grinding is 
 alive and well here but it's a fun grind and well rewarded. The superpowers the heroes have are 
 powerful and impressive. 
  
  Grouping in the game is implemented VERY well and makes it easy. You can instantly start searching 
 for teams with the click of a button and when you are in a group it's easy to do assists just by 
 clicking on the player's name in the team window; you'll then automatically target whatever that 
 team member is targeting. 
  
  Coming off the very deep and complicated Anarchy Online, CoH is a welcomed relief as it has no 
 loot to envy or endlessly hunt, no complicated inventory system or skill trees, and you can always 
 find some action nearby.
  
  For me, it's the best MMORPG I've played. Why? Because it's fun and easy to get into. Granted, 
 more content will need to be added to keep longevity and justify the high $15/month cost but NC 
 Soft has stated that it is in the works; the alien invasion during beta was a foretaste.
  
  Want a truly fun and rewarding MMORPG experience? Try City of Heroes. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Goose
Rating: 8.3
Date: May 9, 2004 6:36 am PT
Review:  This was my first experience with an MMORPG, so I can't compare it to others in the genre. While 
 this may mean that my review is less useful for those with years of experience with this kind of 
 game, I hope that other MMO virgins will find it helpful.
  
  City of Heroes is a remarkably satisfying trip into the world of superpowered heroes and villains. 
 While it is not without its flaws, it delivers on its promise to put you into the shoes of a real 
 superhero. Ability to kill a yak with mind bullets? Check. Ability to summon a storm? Check. Claws? 
 Check. Flying? Check. Just about any power you might want to have is available in some form or 
 another, although you will have only a limited selection of powers at the beginning of the game.
 
  
  At the beginning of the game, players choose an origin for their superpowers, which affects which 
 sort of power-up items they are able to use, as well as which contacts will give them missions. 
 These origins have no impact on abilities, but merely serve to ensure that different players within 
 the same general class will have slightly different paths to advancement. Players also must choose 
 an Archetype for their hero. The archetypes include the mighty Tanker, a juggernaut with fairly 
 strong close-range attack capabilities but massive health points, suitable for charging right into 
 battle, the Scrapper, highly deadly at close-range and with enough health to take on several baddies 
 at once, the Controller, with the ability to affect groups of enemies at once, the Blaster, strong 
 on long-range attacks but low on health, and the Defender, who can heal and protect other heroes 
 in addition to dealing out moderate damage on his own.
  
  Despite the massively multiplayer nature of the game, it is fairly easy (depending on your archetype) 
 to adventure on your own. A friendly community means that if you get into trouble, there is usually 
 someone around willing to boost your defense with a force field or heal your wounds. And if you 
 find you need such help more often than you would like, it is easy to find a team to adventure 
 with.
  
  Admittedly, I have only put in about 8-10 hours on the game so far, so I can't speak to the long-lasting 
 appeal of CoH, but I can say that it has been great fun so far, whether adventuring alone, with 
 friends, or with random internet dudes. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dragonlk
Rating: 8.4
Date: May 8, 2004 7:53 pm PT
Review:  this is a fun game. at first you get to pick 2 power sets. those are the only 2 power sets you 
 ever get that differ with the archer type you chose. at lvl 6 you can pick a pool powerset like 
 fly, teleport, super speed, super jump, and stuff like that. once you chose that you can pick a 
 power from the set. at level 6 u can only chose a week power from the set like for the fly power 
 set you can pick hoover witch is very slow. then at lvl 14 you can pick the best power of the set 
 like fly, teleport far, super speed, etc. this is a fun game but it dos not work on laptops so 
 dont get it if your using a laptop to play. the game is very repeditive. your either killing random 
 vilians in the streets, or doing missions witch consist of the same thing, finding a building, 
 killing everybody in it, then finding something like dna or a computer file and returning it to 
 your contact. contacts are like the people that give you missions. each time you kill someone, 
 or complete a mission you get exp, and influence witch is the money of this game. all you can buy 
 in this game are enhancements. enhancements well enhancements your skills. you put them into an 
 enhancement spot in a skill and once you place it there they are stuck there. to tell you the truth 
 i dont think this game is worth 50 dollars (us) . the game is exztreamly repeditive. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Deepcold
Rating: 9.7
Date: May 8, 2004 5:43 am PT
Review:  I've never been a big fan of MMORPG, the only title i played in this group is Dark Age of Camelot, 
 wich was and still very good, but this one, City of Heroes, got me right in the bullseye. It is 
 so addicting that even when i sleep, i'm thinking about it. The graphics are very well done and 
 the sound is not bad. I like the weapons sounds since they are realistics. The visuel effects in 
 general is eye candy, in fact, you will be impatient to try another power just to see what it look 
 like. One big enhancement in this game that i really appreciate is the fact that you can be the 
 mentor of a character who's lower in rank than you. They're calling that "sidekicking". That's 
 gonna permit a lower heroe to be able to play with higher level character. How many times you've 
 been frustrated by not beign able to join one of your friend because you wasn't strong enough. 
 Well they finally found something refreshing. Some peoples are complaining about the game to be 
 boring because all you have to do is shooting bad guys and level up... well, this is what MMORPG 
 is all about. It's not different from the other MMORPG but, it is fun to play something else than 
 a warrior with a sword or a magician with a wand for a change. The character creation is another 
 concept of the game who's a worthy. I have 4 character so far and never, never i saw another character 
 with the same aspect as me. Players who likes "teamworks" will be delighted with this game. One 
 big positive point is that, their servers are lagless and, finally, i had 2 small issues that i 
 needed technical support and, i must say that i've been really impressed with the reaction time 
 i've been served. Really, i've bought that game because evrything interesting has been reported 
 and so far, it is the best title i played this year. For $49.99 and $14.00 per month, i can finally 
 say from a game that, City of Heroes deserve my money and my time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GDI
Rating: 8.1
Date: May 7, 2004 1:43 pm PT
Review:  City of Heroes can and will be viewed as an "MMORPG Lite" by a lot of people, but that doesn't 
 make it any less fun. What you get with this shiny little package is a fast-paced superhero MMOG 
 (a first) with fun, dynamic combat, excellent character customization potential, a decent series 
 of plotlines, and not much else. Don't let the seeming lack of options dissuade you though, City 
 of Heroes is all about fun.
  
  The details have been covered elsewhere, so I'll confine this to a vetern MMOG player's view on 
 the game. For starters, combat is fast and fun as I mentioned. You'll frequently find yourself 
 taking on multiple foes and coming out on top. This gives you quite a feeling of power and gives 
 a bit of a rush the first few times. Bosses and lieutenants offer a sufficient challenge and can 
 require a change of tactics, thereby introducing a bit of variety to battles. Most people find 
 tracking down the thugs and villains fun, which is excellent since there's not really anything 
 else to do in the game.
  
  The other major point I want to cover here is the mission structure. Missions are the heart of 
 City of Heroes and something that it does well, if you're willing to put in the time and effort 
 to work with them. If you don't read mission descriptions, the system will seem shallow and repetitive 
 as there are only a few types of missions in the game. Those that take the time to read mission 
 descriptions and invest some emotion in the game will be rewarded by a rich, detailed story line 
 that wraps around your character and culminates in souvenirs and battles with arch-villains. (Souvenirs 
 being text "badges" that remind you of arcs you finished; they're offer nothing more than the satisfaction 
 of a job well done.) If you shun the missions and simply try and get to the top, youre going to 
 find yourself burned out fast.
  
  This is where my main complaint about City of Heroes comes in: Once you hit the level cap (currently 
 level 40) , what is there for your character to do? With a lack of any sort of uber loot aside 
 from a few types of special enhancements, theres really no way to continue developing your character 
 after you reach the cap. This is something the developers are going to have to address in coming 
 updates in order to maintain a subscriber base. The increasing of the level cap to 50 in the first 
 content update along with the addition of several new villain groups and zones is a start, but 
 Im still somewhat concerned. All in all, City of Heroes is fun and worth checking out for a few 
 months, but don't count on it to hold your interest for years on end unless you're a die-hard comic 
 book fan who's always wanted to be a superhero.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bell
Rating: 8
Date: May 7, 2004 10:58 am PT
Review:  City of Heroes is an easy game to pick up -- as long as you have some experience with any of today's 
 RPGs. I only have about 2 to 3 hours of free time each day to play this game and that has worked 
 out well so far -- I'm still advancing levels each day or every other day (I'm still below Level 
 12 for all my characters... I hear leveling really slows down around level 10 or 12) -- basically, 
 the game is still very fun to play even though I can only play it a few hours a day.
  
  The character generator is phenomenal -- the game itself is a lot of fun to play -- I highly recommend 
 this game to anyone -- the only downside is the monthly charge (more than most other MMORPGs) and 
 the sound could be a bit better (still good, but ambient sound needs work) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Toonice
Rating: 8.1
Date: May 6, 2004 8:30 am PT
Review:  I had been anticipating this game from about the middle of 2003 and joined beta when they introduced 
 the preorder offer.
  From the start I was impressed with the game becasue of the simple and intuative interface and 
 startled a bit by how fun the gameplay was.
  The gameplay is great simply because it is such a departure from the normal hack and slash and 
 where as in most other MMORPG you and or your group are almost completely consumed with attacking 
 one enemy at a time, City of Heros is constantly challenging you with multiple targets with diffrent 
 attack styles and offensive posturing.
  
  The Graphics although not top of the line by any means seem to fit well with the atmosphere they 
 were trying to create and do help to keep frame rates steady even with a full team of heros and 
 10+ enemies on screen.
  The outside environments are well designed and are varied enough so as not to give the impression 
 that you are viewing the same cookie cutter buildings, just of a diffrent size, as you run bound 
 and or fly through the sprawling metropolis.
  
  Sound, This is the only real sticking point I have with this game. It doesnt seem as enought time 
 was taken to give a real feeling to the sounds of combat which this game revolves around. The music 
 changes and ambient sounds are efficient and most of the effects for the powers fit however I have 
 heard sounds that seem like they were cut and pasted from other games. Also I would have liked 
 to have heard some more sound out of the enemies like maby a few diffrent battle yells when they 
 spy a hero so as to add to the asthetics as well as warn the hero when he has been noticed, instead 
 of just feeling the projectiles in his flesh from being shot, blasted, or otherwise acossted. In 
 battle some more oofs and outches would be nice also in addition to the static contact sound.
 
  
  Value, Enjoyment is paramount in determining how long I stay with a specific title. Graphics and 
 Sound become secondary along with a multitude of diffrent activities, as I usually stay away from 
 crafting and other activities that keep me out of the action for long periods of time. Variety 
 is the spice of life here I enjoy changing looks and though not availible currently in game it 
 has been stated that this will be added in comming updates, speaking of updates a frequent update 
 schedule also keeps me around as it tells me that the crew working on the game still have its improvment 
 in their minds. Most of these things remain to be seen but I believe this game has some staying 
 power and if not well at least it goes a long way toward showing other developers what makes a 
 fun game. 
  
  In conclusion I really enjoy this game if for no other reason than I like saving the day, it makes 
 me feel Super! and havnt we all dreamed of being a super hero... 
  
  Toonice 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: RFNeo
Rating: 5.5
Date: May 6, 2004 1:46 am PT
Review:  First of all, I must say the first 2 days I played this game I thought exactly like these other 
 people that are scoring it with 9 and 10. Its a brilliant game with no RPG economy, no loot and 
 without all the things that make games like Star Wars Galaxies bad.
  
  The first 10 levels are great, and you can reach them pretty quick even if you are not a power 
 gamer. Once you reach level 10, you start realizing there is not enough content on this game to 
 last you past the first 30 days. There are not enough powers to choose from, and the few that are 
 there, may disappoint you after you choose them. 
  
  All heroes are more or less the same; there is nothing unique about your character apart from the 
 appearance. All missions are the same: killing trolls, killing trolls. I might add all the trolls 
 are basically the same. I am surprised that the developers did not take the time to add more variety 
 on this field, since the game is completely focused on that.
  
  Another thing is that you cannot play on groups bigger than 4 and really enjoy the game. When the 
 group gets bigger, the game play gets duller. I fail to see the use for the supergroup option, 
 unless your group never goes up from 4. If you have more than 3 friends you play with, you better 
 start thinking about other games, perhaps non MMORPG. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: drakanguard
Rating: 4
Date: May 5, 2004 6:59 pm PT
Review:  I've played this game since beta. The reason I got this game was so I can play with my friends, 
 and I am an avid comic reader, and always searching for that next best MMORPG. So far havent had 
 much luck, and I've played alot of games, FFXI, Star Wars, Anarchy Online, City of Heroes, and 
 Lineage 2. I love city of heroes, the only thing is that it lost all its fun after a month. I mean 
 there's only so many times you can go around and beat the snot out of thugs, and other types of 
 enemies. And the missions are basically that, they send you to an area or building and basically 
 just have you beat up more people. I didnt care about not having items, or not having money, cause 
 that didnt matter to me. The other problem, is the limited powers, and by that I mean everyone 
 chooses the same powers. If you can look past all the issues I have layed out, then more power 
 to you and I hope you enjoy your gaming experience with it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gavin
Rating: 9.6
Date: May 5, 2004 2:54 pm PT
Review:  Well, its been over six months of play now, with about 600 hours on my main character who has recently 
 reached level 49 (one more to go to the current lvel cap of 50) .
  
  I originally picked this game up while waiting for World of Wacraft due to its good initial reviews 
 and got completely hooked. I've now been plaing the WoW final stress test for a week and I have 
 to say that while there are a lot of fun things in WoW, CoH is still a sharp and refreshing experience. 
 CoH provides a world that is much more "real" in its experience than WoW's cartoony fantasy setting. 
 There are a numberof things that just work better in CoH than in WoW or any other game I've played. 
 Also the lack of traditional MMORPG issues like killstealing and camping keeps the game positive.
 
  
  There's lots to do in CoH, and the developers have been providing significant content releases 
 (at no extra charge) every 2-3 months, along with things like holiday special events.
  
  Like any MMOG, you'll have the most fun in CoH if you find a good group of regular people to team 
 with. After mostly soloing for the first three weeks or so, I started running into the same people 
 and we started a SuperGroup (guild) which has probably been the thing that makes the game the most 
 fun.
  
  Anyhow, this game has something for pretty much everyone. I was never even a super hero or comic 
 fan before I started, but *being* a super hero is one heck of a lot of fun!
  
  G. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ShadowHawk
Rating: 9
Date: May 5, 2004 1:46 pm PT
Review:  I have only played Star Wars Galaxies, and Final Fantasy XI. All I can say is that City of Heros 
 TRUMPS BOTH OF THEM! SWG is just another EQ clone with a space twist.. Its the sad truth! And Final 
 Fantasy XI I only wish had more of a quest based leveling system. You still need to grind. With 
 COH you could do such things in the sewer system of Perez Park, which are 2 of my favorite leveling 
 places right now. Or just keep doing little missions which get you introduced to new contacts and 
 harder missions. Once in a while you may need to spend time getting to the next level just so you 
 can get missions from a new contact. Instead of normal levels, you have Security Level. Which basicly 
 means Level but if you don't have a high enough one you can't get into Hazard areas. Anyways I 
 give COH a 9 outa 10 cause it has broken the mold in the world of copy cat MMO's.
  
  This game will be even made better with the new powers such as "Climbing" (like Spidey or Nightcrawler) 
 and the Villan Expansion pack. Plus the monthy Comic ROCKS!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: methesol
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 5, 2004 12:25 pm PT
Review:  City of heroes first of all I love anything super heroes with that said I enjoyed playing this 
 game from the very beginning but of curse its does need something more but I think that is the 
 nature of the beast when you have some thing great there can always be something better about it 
 I would elaborate more but I not very good a typing my feelings but I will say this from the first 
 second I jumped into this game I was having so much more fun then I had ever had on star wars 
 
  
  PS I do like star wars too but being a super hero is so much more fun then being a nobody in a 
 galaxy far far away 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: zanetanos
Rating: 9.3
Date: May 5, 2004 10:46 am PT
Review:  Flawles, an absolute masterpiece. I cannot say enough good things about this game. The gameplay 
 is amazing, this is the most fun I have had playing a game in quite sometime. If you like heroes 
 or MMORPGs get this game! Its fun, the learning curve is just right, and its amazing.
  
  Gameplay:
  The gameplay on this game is outstanding, not once have I been bored with what I am 
 doing, and I love the character advancement system and the way the archetypes are focused. There 
 are no technical issues that make the gameplay anyless good. 10/10
  
  Graphics:
  The graphics are outstanding, the devs did a great job on the cityscape and the character models. 
 This game has THE best character creation system I have ever see.. hands down the best character 
 system ever. 10/10
  
  Sound:
  The sound is really good, its bugless and very smooth. 9/10
  
  Value:
  The reason that this 
 is only a six is because of the monthly fee. Other than that its a good value due to the LOADS 
 of content. 6/10
  
  Overall: 9.3/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bimble
Rating: 9.8
Date: May 5, 2004 8:51 am PT
Review:  This is the first MMORPG to make me actively seek out groups to team up with. I'm normally more 
 of a solo player, perhaps grouping with a handful of friends from time to time, but the way City 
 of Heroes is laid out it doesn't just encourage grouping, it makes it a TON of fun. The variety 
 of powers means that a large group becomes very versatile, and frankly it's just a load of fun 
 to watch a large melee in progress. The group finder makes it easy to join a band of heroes quickly, 
 and the mission system means that your group isn't just stuck trolling one area hunting for xp. 
 If you wind up with a group you work well with it'll make it very hard to stop playing, no matter 
 how early you need to get up for work the next morning.
  
  There are still some kinks that need to be worked out (the more epic Task Force Missions still 
 have some noteworthy bugs, for example) , but by and large I'm extremely impressed by this game. 
 It was easy to jump into right away, and you don't fight bunnies and rats to start out. And what's 
 not to love about creating a superhero character? Now if you'll excuse me, I think "The Angry Consumer" 
 would be a fun one to generate. Perhaps he has super strength from fighting with other parents 
 at Christmas time... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Golder1027
Rating: 8.9
Date: May 5, 2004 6:33 am PT
Review:  One word really sums up this game.... FUN. Yes fun, alot of the other online games out there have 
 forgoten about that one simple little word. I have played quite a few of those other mmorpgs out 
 there, SWG, EQ, AC, AC2, SB to name a few and they all seem to have lost that little thing called 
 fun. 
  
  Toon creation is a blast, odds are you will never see another char out there that even remotely 
 looks like yours, and there is a fair amount of different 'sets' of powers to start your character 
 out with. Another thing to mention is char creation is easy! If you are not happy with yer creation 
 after playing around a bit just go back and create another. You can have up to six heros per server.
 
  
  Graphics are nice, the enviroments are huge, lots of NPCS running about there for you to save from 
 being pummeled by the criminal element out there.
  
  One big plus is that there is no crafting system or loot system outside of the enhancements or 
 inspirations you find from thugs, which is nice. This way you do not have to worry about finding 
 component 'a' and 'b' and crafting them together and then selling it for way over the value of 
 the item you made. No more worring if you have the best 'weapon' out there. It just makes the game 
 alot more FUN to play. Create your hero and get out there beating on baddies.
  
  The sound is okay, it works for the game I suppose, but then again I am really not listening to 
 the soundtrack when I am in the middle of a massive brawl, and the power sound effects suit the 
 game just fine.
  
  If you are a fan of the comic book genre, or if you really enjoyed Freedom Force then I would highly 
 recommend this game. Try it you'll get hooked. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Royal_Ally
Rating: 10
Date: May 4, 2004 5:34 pm PT
Review:  If anybody out there needs something refreshing, new and creative in a game - This is it. It's 
 very easy, very fun, and very addictive. Theres nothing like being in a group with 7 other heroes 
 blasting away on a group of zombies hidden away in a secret sewer. Or flying up to a building top 
 and battling foes way up in the air. Its awesome. I give this game an easy 9.9, my only beef is 
 - with the character customization so in-depth, I've still grown tired of some of my characters 
 physical flaws and would like to re-work them.. but once you create your char's appearance, thats 
 the way he is - forever. It's absolutely no big deal at all though, and it doesn't keep me from 
 playing 8+ hours a day. :) Amazingly awesome game. 2 very easy thumbs up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RobNyack
Rating: 9
Date: May 4, 2004 5:22 pm PT
Review:  City of Heros is my first jump into a MMOG since I was playing Ashron's Call 3 or 4 years ago. 
 All I can say is, if you love superhero comic books, then you are going to love this game. 
  
  The amount of control you have at creating your superhero is nothing short of amazing. Half 
 the fun of playing is checking out all the different superheros that are being created. There is 
 everything from dumb to funny to odd to very creative. Half the fun of the game is trying to create 
 a superhero that is one of the just mentioned. I just ran into "The Incredible Hulk". This guy 
 must have been one of the first ones online to get that name! Look very much like the Hulk too!
 
  
  The amazing amount of custumobilty (I think I just made up a word!) means that that is a very small 
 chance of your look already being used. I think the manual says there are some millions of possible 
 unique combos that, if you take your time, and are creative, you will be ensured a cool and unique 
 superhero.
  
  There is an amazing choice of options for your superhero powers too. Unbelievable some of the powers 
 I see being used by others. 
  
  The city is HUGE..... and I mean H. U. G. E. Really cool missions for you to advance the story or you 
 can just travel through the huge City and do whatever you want. 
  
  I have been playing for 3 days now, and am getting more addicted each time I play! Currently level 
 7. The name is Nuclear Ice. Look me up 
  
  
  Really nice graphics too. City looks GREAT, superheros look GREAT, and super villians look GREAT.
 
  
  I give this game a SOLID 9.0
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: zampzon
Rating: 9.9
Date: May 4, 2004 11:23 am PT
Review:  It is a rare moment in the gaming universe when an online RPG launches smoothly. But, here the 
 impossible has happened and its a welcome change of pace for this sort of game. City of Heroes 
 plays like a game that has been tested thoroughly and designed by people with a true love for the 
 genre it emulates. You feel like a powerful comic book character from your very first steps. I 
 love the streamlined design of the game, no more level grinding, cryptic inventory management, 
 or money woes. Just pure clobbern time action. A great game from top to bottom, Ill be playing 
 this game into the wee hours for a long time to come. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Decker12
Rating: 9.3
Date: May 4, 2004 10:53 am PT
Review:  Finally, a MMO that's nothing but FUN! Gone is the intense in your face level grind, tedious inventory 
 management, endless downtime, and locked in skill templates. There are literally hundreds of different 
 classes you can make by mix and matching the four base classes, and as everyone else has mentioned 
 there are millions of possible costume choices. You can make a hulking machine gun firing she-beast 
 or a ice-shooting horned half-robot dwarf. Capes aren't implemented in the game yet, however. The 
 frame rate is super smooth on my mid-range system.
  
  Groups are easy to find and fun to play in, with plenty of little things that make group combat 
 easier. Selecting a group member automatically selects *his* target, so it's easy to assign one 
 person as a main tank and then just use your attacks "on him", which actually attacks his target. 
 Your skills are upgraded by finding loot drops, which add bonus damage or lessen recharge time 
 or whatever. You can also combine lower level drops into higher level ones. Groups can instantly 
 and easily take on missions (which scale depending on how many people are in your group) without 
 tedious journeys back and forth from a trainer or contact.
  
  The game has a few interface quirks and could really use some additional hotkeys. Server populations 
 can be low at off-peak times, and the game is currently having some minor lag issues and frustrating 
 dropped connections. Still, it's a very smooth launch for a game only a week old. Combat sounds 
 are satisfying but the rest of the gameworld is fairly silent, and music only pops in occasionally 
 when you switch zones. City maps are expansive but forest or other "dungeon" like zones are just 
 a series of rooms, clearings, and corridors instead of a true forest where you can walk between 
 tree trunks.
  
  The game also lacks any crafting system or PvP, and until you reach level 7 or 8 you won't have 
 much choice in what new skills to upgrade to. There's currently a weird design decision in place 
 which makes it impossible to finish certain story arcs if you "outlevel" the Contact who gives 
 you missions. The game might not be as "deep" as SWG or DAOC but it's also a hell of alot more 
 fun. It's also more expensive than other MMO's, costing $15 a month instead of the usual $10 or 
 $12. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Judas_III
Rating: 9.6
Date: May 4, 2004 7:19 am PT
Review:  If you've played this game you already know how this review will sound. If you haven't, your in 
 for a great surprise. Very few MMOG's get this "Addicting Fun Factor" down. There isn't a real 
 weak part to mention,... except that it may interfere with the time that other things impose on 
 you.
  
  Graphics are very nice and functional, but could be improved somewhat, but at the expense of gameplay? 
 If it did, I wouldn't change it.
  
  Sounds are done well, as is the music tracks that play randomly as you cross into new zone districts.
 
  
  The interface is remarkably functional without being too burdensome on the visuals, and easy to 
 navigate.
  
  I would like to give this game a 10, but the cost of monthly service @ $15 U. S. is a tad high and 
 makes me believe the corporate machine is greedy to pocket as much money as it can. It remains 
 to be seen, but if content is added or server side improvements are made, it MIGHT be justifiable.
 
  
  I really like this game and if you enjoy a well made MMOG.... You will more than likely sing it's 
 praises as well.
  
  Judas 
::::::

::::::
UserName: csward1
Rating: 9.4
Date: May 3, 2004 2:39 pm PT
Review:  Ok this is the first review of a game I have ever written for gamespot and I have been a reader 
 and subsequently a subscriber for a number of years. As for MMORPG's, I have played and tried EQ, 
 E&B, SWG, AO and Lineage II and this is by far the most FUN!!!! As I have played this game I have 
 tried to figure out why I have enjoyed it so much thus far and I came up this reason. I used to 
 play a pen a paper RPG called Champions which is also a Superhero based RPG (maybe I'm biased for 
 this genre) point system which allowed the same amount of originality in terms of creating your 
 character. I had played alot of other RPG's but no one near as much as Champions with my friends.
 
  
  One of the things we most enjoyed was character creation -- we would literally spend days coming 
 up with an original concept and then fleshing it out into a character which would literally develop 
 over time as things happened. This is the first RPG that I have played that really works hard to 
 allow you to do the same. You're not focused on the level treadmill anymore -- instead (at least 
 for me) your constantly thinking about how certain powers will fit your character's concept and 
 background. Your even coming up with different character ideas and then creating them because you 
 want try a different playstyle (and implement that cool concept) which each of the archtypes demands.
 
  
  The graphics are very good -- not great -- but very good and the sound is ok -- it could use improvement. 
 What this game has in spades is an outstanding character creation and play system that really immerses 
 you into the game. That is why I am so high on the game now and in the future; because they have 
 the essential ingredients down pat which have been so elusive in other MMORPG's I have played so 
 far. Hopefully, with a strong subscriber base they will bring out new areas, powers, content and 
 improvements and dare I say the ability to play supervillains for PVP!
  
  This game is the bomb! I would have a hard time understanding why anyone would not have fun playing 
 this game unless you miss the grind of the aforementioned MOG's. Before I forget -- I really like 
 the mission system as well. This game is already bang up fun and his HUGE POTENTIAL FOR EXPANSION!!! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Moodgie
Rating: 9.2
Date: May 3, 2004 8:18 am PT
Review:  Finally, an MMORPG that doesn't suck! Furthermore, this game is actually a great deal of fun. The 
 combat is involved, being very different from the Diablo like clickfests of yore. Most importantly, 
 the "level treadmill" is gone, replaced by mission based gameplay. No longer will you kill rats 
 for a day to get another level. Now, when you get levels, you get levels. It's a big deal, but 
 it isn't the focus of the game. It can be, if you like that, and you can solo very well with this 
 game. However, it really shines with team. Teaming up is very easy. Tactics, while not as important 
 in the early stages, becomes vital as you continue on, or even early, in the case that you get 
 a really hard mission. There are boss fights, story arcs you complete with teammates that end with 
 a super-villain, and extremely customizable characters.
  
  The graphics are decent. The characters are stylistically good, but the technical side is a bit 
 weak. The areas are interesting and varied. You'll be in jungles and dark caves as well as traditional 
 cities. The sound is a bit of a weak point, relatively speaking. It is functional. That's about 
 all you can say about it, other than that it isn't annoying.
  
  The replay you can get out of this game is significant. You can play essentially four different 
 kinds of characters, although melee characters are split into two classes, or "archetypes." You 
 get to choose two power sets from a whole bunch of different ones. In my play, I've found on guy 
 with an identical set as my character, and no one else with either of the sets I chose. It's interesting, 
 to say the least, and very varied. The important word is "varied" because there is an actual difference 
 in play style altogether between power sets.
  
  Overall, I would recommend this game to anyone, including people who have hated MMORPGs in the 
 past. I certainly am in that group. I've played Everquest, Earth and Beyond and Asherons Call 2, 
 and hated the first two and disliked the last. I tried one last time on an MMORPG, and finally 
 found one that doesn't suck. In fact, I've found one that is a lot of fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ajv
Rating: 10
Date: May 2, 2004 8:30 am PT
Review:  
  I've played every MMORPG out there, and I think this has to be one of the best, if not the best 
 of the bunch. There is no downtime. Finding a group is easy because the cities are broken up into 
 level ranges; so chances are any fellow hero you see is the appropriate level range to group with.
 
  
  It has a nice arching storyline that is mission-based. The powers (spells) are numerous and interesting. 
 The customization of the heroes is outstanding. 
  
  There is no loot or weapons in this game (or tradeskills) . However, in my opinion this is its strength 
 since you spend more time doing fun stuff like fighting than worrying about whether your weapons 
 are any good. Plus you won't be denied into a group just because you don't have that uber-sword-of-instant-death 
 in your arsenal.
  
  Whether you were into comic books or not, this game is great. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Vonhawkmoon
Rating: 9.3
Date: May 2, 2004 3:23 am PT
Review:  I've played just about every MMORPG since EQ with the hopes of regaining that WOW ! experience 
 I first received when I started EQ 4 years ago. Every game that promised to be the next generation 
 MMORPG ended up strongly disappointing me. Well the next generation of MMORPGs are finally here, 
 and they are not heralded in by WoW or EQ II, but by City of Heroes ! Now before you lable me a 
 sycophant who is just following the crowd I wish to say that when I first heard of this title I 
 was extremely sceptical. I expected cutesy graphics and game play like a Superman comic (doesn't 
 matter which era, Superman was and remains the most boring title in comics history.) But on the 
 strength of reviews, my disgust with the Lineage II Beta, and my exhaustion with my ever raiding 
 EQ uberguild, I picked this up as on a lark (kind of like when I first bought EQ) . I've played 
 it fairly constantly for the last couple of days and I am highly impressed. Now for some details 
 some of which are redundant i know - Character customization is amazing, you should never run across 
 another player that looks exactly like you and you will rarely see anyone even close. The game 
 plays excellently - With a mediocre system you should get virtually no lag even though the power 
 effects are fairly complicated, and there may often be a dozen or so NPCs in the screen at once 
 (plus an occasional car or subway car. The city itself looks great, for the most part it is a dank 
 slum with trash and thugs assaulting NPCs everywhere. You start out basically roughing up some 
 street hoods and doing favors for your first contact. This leads to the beginning of story arcs 
 involving the street gangs, satanic cults, reanimator types and robots. The story unfolds more 
 as you meet more contacts and do more missions for them. Right now I feel I am just at the tip 
 of the iceberg as to where all this is going to lead. These missions often are as simple as go 
 out and take down 10 of street gang X, however at the end you get some information on the gang's 
 agenda which may lead to another contact or another mission. So doing these missions feels more 
 like doing Quests in a stand alone RPG like BGII rather than say your typical MMORPG noob quest 
 "go out and bring me 10 rat turds so I can fertilze my garden and I will give you some carrots". 
 Right now the game appears to be confined to several zones making up one city, but these zones 
 are sprawling, filled with lots of back alleys and buildings that you can climb on top of using 
 fire escapes (or flying though it takes a few levels before anyone can really do more than float) . 
 However the potential of this game really staggers the mind. If you think of all the crap the Fantastic 
 Four got into back in the day (the '70s) you know what I am talking about. Space travel ala an 
 SG-1 type expansion is a possibility, or rifts to places like Hell or alternate realities certainly 
 is very doable. Even time travel or a spin off that sends our characters off to a Grimjack/Planescape 
 type nexus of dimensions could certainly fit the scenario. (though that may be a fitting basis 
 for City of Heroes II) Yes there are no trade skills, yes there is no gear so you better be happy 
 with how your character looks when you start since you don't get to change clothes. However there 
 are lots of super powers to choose from and lots of different ways to tweak them out and make them 
 work just a little differently than anyone else. But most importantly, there is no camping and 
 very little down time. This really is the next step in on line gaming so quit second guessing yourself 
 and get in on it now. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gasgano
Rating: 9.3
Date: May 1, 2004 9:52 am PT
Review:  City of Heroes has finally launched and it was well worth wait. First of all, speaking of the launch, 
 it was one of the most flawless launches of an MMORPG to date.
  
  Many other reviews will talk about the graphics and gameplay, so let me focus on something else 
 about this game: The awesome Dev team. I was in beta starting in March and let me tell you this 
 is one of the most dedicated and "with it" dev teams I have ever seen. They LISTEN to their fanbase 
 and their communication with the players on the main message boards is top-notch. Ask a hard question, 
 or have a valid well thought-out concern and there is a good chance you will have a dev chime in. 
 Statesman has already given us a sneak peek at the first update scheduled in about a month an it 
 sounds awesome. I can't wait to see what these guys have in store as far as updates.
  
  Bottom line - if you are a fan of MMORPGs or Comic Books give this game a shot, you won't be disappointed. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jojo283
Rating: 9.8
Date: Apr 30, 2004 8:22 am PT
Review:  City of Heroes is one of those rare titles. If you are tired of playing a traditional RPG on line 
 and need to try something different this is the game for you. I picked this game up just because 
 Im real big in comics. Being and Xmen fan you can imagine all the possibilities on creating your 
 own mutant. Once I installed and started to do my first hero, o my goodness all the vary details 
 in creating your player. The graphics are to put it, AWESOME! The sound and music is good, very 
 heroic type sound. The servers are smooth and the launch, flawless. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: russlc
Rating: 9.1
Date: Apr 30, 2004 4:40 am PT
Review:  I quickly emphasize (and whole heartedly agree) what others have said about this amazing MMORPG:
 
  
  1. Superb character creation and detail
  2. Extremely fun to play
  3. Unmatched teaming/group system
  4. Intuitive interface
  5. Great graphics
  6. Minimal 
 downtime
  7. Minimal time investment (but I could play much longer)
  8. Minimal launch issues
  9. Great server response time under load
  10. Mature players
  
 
  This game definitely has a lot going for it and I have truly enjoyed every minute I have been 
 online. It is so easy to get in and just start having fun with others. You can solo but since they 
 made it so easy to group up, why would you (and this is an MMO anyhow) . In addition, the server 
 is great at preparing missions based on the experience and size of the group. So the more people 
 in a team, the more mobs you will face - bravo! Some missions are timed which increases your pulse 
 a bit more. The graphic and sound effects of the super powers are great and provide plenty of excitement 
 in battle. Getting around is super easy. I also dont feel this pressure to level because you 
 can have fun no matter where you are.
  
  If you are tired of the same-old MMORPG auto-attack, craft, and the skill development grind, you 
 should definitely give CoH a try. Everyone is having fun in Paragon City and this title is a breath 
 of fresh air in the MMO genre. They have plenty of room for expansion and a totally free form environment 
 to make this game fun for many months to come.
  
  See you in Paragon City! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CrazyMark3
Rating: 9.7
Date: Apr 29, 2004 11:16 am PT
Review:  I want to take just a second to point out the only problem with this game since I have really only 
 found one. The villians can be very similar. Yes, they are broken into a few different groups, 
 but within those groups they only have three or four different characters. I do want to point out 
 that the announcement of City of Villians is very exciting since it will make a great game even 
 greater.
  I'm sure many other people will point out the character creation system, the graphics, the missions, 
 the enhancements, etc. are all really good. The main compliment I can give this game is that it's 
 fun. That's right a MMORPG that's fun. I know its sounds odd but its true. 
  This is the GTA3 of MMORPG's those who have played the game no what I mean. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mrgrimm312
Rating: 9.4
Date: Apr 29, 2004 8:47 am PT
Review:  Hello, I just wanna say this game is amazing to those of you looking for a new type of MMORPG. 
 Over 5000 differant costumes you can pick. So the chances of you coming across something just like 
 you is very slim. This game is fun in all aspects. Trust me once you start to play you will have 
 2 or 3 differant characters leveling at first. Gameplay overal is solid and the replay is solid.
 
  The downfall right now is no player vs player (city of villains - alrdy planned) . Another thing 
 it seems to me that there isnt rare item drops. Such as in games like lineage 2 and such. Those 
 are the only things i can find wrong with this game. AN AMAZING GAME OVERALL. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: frugus
Rating: 8.3
Date: Apr 29, 2004 7:32 am PT
Review:  My belief is that City of Heroes will mostly distinguish itself from other games of it's gendra 
 by being the simplest, most down to the point MMORPG there is. They really went down to the whole 
 point of huntings mobs, and that's making sure you can hunt mobs, quickly, easily and with very 
 little to no real downtime between fights.
  
  But also of importance is the whole concept that makes things much more simple, thus anyone who's 
 never played an MMORPG should not get lost in the miasma of difficut terminology and gaming concepts. 
 RPGs of this genre have always been catered to the hardcore gamer while City of Heroes is done 
 in a way that anything cand be understood quickly. And not only that, the fact that it's set in 
 the realm of super heroes is, in my opinion, much more open to the imagination of everyone, even 
 my grandfather. Thus, this is quite probably also the most welcoming game for this type of gameplay, 
 by far compared to the other big players out there.
  
  Graphically it's one of the best I've seen but then again MMORPGs are not known for their graphic 
 prowess. I can say that it's more than acceptable, in fact I don't see myself getting tired of 
 them just yet. The sound is good yet not amazing but the environmental music just makes me think 
 of Anarchy Online. The game appears to be stable but my computer has been haunted forever and yes 
 I did have some crashes from time to time. Can't be denied but they are rare enough for this game 
 to be plyable.
  
  BIG POINTS for character creation (put in my reviewer's tilt) . Amazing creative possibilities here, 
 AMAZING. I've never seen a game that let's you do pretty much anything you want. In fact the only 
 super hero I can't really recreate is spiderman for it's web slinging and/or wall crawling powers, 
 the rest just seems to be all there (minus capes) . You can easily make your own Punisher, Spawn, 
 Hulk, Superman... really there is not much limit to what you can make up. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Docphear
Rating: 9.3
Date: Apr 29, 2004 6:56 am PT
Review:  Heroes Unite! Who hasn't wanted to have super powers? Stop evil doers? Assemble teams of like minded 
 individuals to stop Arch Villians? All this is part of City of Heroes (CoH) . From the moment you 
 start to create your character things just become amazing. Some may feel limited by the 5 Classes, 
 but once you pick the class each one has around 5-8 power sets, then another 5-8 secondary powers. 
 So there are such diferences that you are not limited at all. Know that all your powers are hear, 
 Rapid Healing, Fligh, X-Ray Beams from your eyes, invulunerability, claws, flame on, super leaping 
 abilitie.. etc. We haven't even gotten to character creation. On lookers (those who are not creating 
 their own character but waiting for their turn) complain that is takes too long to make your Hero 
 or Herorine. Oddly when they sit down in the chair they take a 20 mins to pick how they look. This 
 20 mins isn't due to any sort of difficulty with the menus, but the sheer depth and breadth in 
 the design of your characters. Three basic shapers, Male, Female and Huge (body that you can think 
 of the Hulk or the Thing, Clay Face, Overkill any character that has Really Broad shoulders) . These 
 are then modified by a height slider that goes from 4 to 7'8", and a muscular slider that takes 
 your character's build from Tobey McQuire to Aaaaahnold. The options in making your character is 
 amazing, so many ways to tweak it. For those who just want to jump into the game they can do so 
 with a "Random"-ly generated character. The tutorial is a great starting point, and gives you your 
 first level up by its end. Once in the actual game you start to see the vast area of costumes and 
 powers. You will see people who have unlocked the ability to fly. see others doing jumping jacks 
 while their bodies are encased in flames or ice. You will see purse snatchers, car thieves and 
 other gang related activites from the get go. No rats and spiders for you to start out with hero, 
 you get to fight the good fight. The only two things I have a problem with is the sound and value. 
 There is great music, or rather lil snippets. And the library of power sound effects seems a lil 
 limited. The other fore mentioned negative is the value. The game costs 15 dollars a month. For 
 many that is just too much. But it might be worth it, with an Expansion on the way for you to make 
 your own Super Villain to combat those dastardly do gooders! City of Heroes has amazing Graphics 
 and gameplay, and creates the most amazing Comic/Super hero experience to date. Happy adventuring 
 my fellow heroes. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DJSANDMAN
Rating: 9.2
Date: Apr 28, 2004 11:09 pm PT
Review:  I was a part of the beta test for City Of Heroes and I must say this game ruled even then. Granted 
 there has only been one day of official play but it was a cool day; I've faced several boss types 
 already through in door dungeon type missions. Gameplay is very cool for a mmorpg; not like those 
 others where you just sit back and watch the math kill you or the bad guy; here you initiate each 
 attack. Also another plus inventories have been re-worked sort of to where instead of items you 
 get inspirations as temp power boost and enhancements as permanant power boosts. Another highpoint 
 in gameplay is I've never seen a char that looked like me maybe another char carrying an assault 
 rifle but there is a slim chance in hell of finding a clone of yourself. Graphics are average for 
 a mmorpg however I must say the view from the flight ceiling (highest point you can fly too) of 
 a foggy city is cool. Sound is where the game lacks there are cool sound effects for powers however 
 the music does only appear when entering zones. For best effect with music turn it down and make 
 a playlist running winamp or other third party app in background. As for value standard 49.99 and 
 14.99 sub fee however this is the only mmorpg I've seen with a printed monthly publication in the 
 form of a comic in which your char has a chance of appearing. In conclusion this game ownes mmorpgs 
 now and with the City Of Villains expansion on the way even more ownage ;) . On a final note I would 
 like to thank Gamespot for early entry into beta it rocked. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dd51
Rating: 9.9
Date: Apr 28, 2004 9:10 pm PT
Review:  For anyone who is even casually interested in comic book heroes, and enjoys gaming to boot, City 
 of Heroes is a must have title. As someone who played in the "pre-order beta," I have played a 
 ton of hours already, and look forward to playing a ton of hours in the upcoming months.
  There is an awesome character set-up tool that allows you to create almost any kind of hero using 
 wide ranging powers, creating the costume that you want, giving them a detailed bio and even coming 
 up with whatever battle cry that fits your character.
  This game will appeal to you if you're not into the whole questing for minutia, hording goods and 
 hunting down some enchanted amulet hidden in some cave. If you don't want to endlessly maintain 
 your inventory and buy and sell every thing from books to clothes to food and weapons, but DO want 
 to take down bad guys COH IS for you. 
  Instead of roaming a barren countryside looking for rodents to kill, or be killed, the cities in 
 COH are teaming with NPC's and other baddies. For some reason I have an easier time dealing with 
 death from some hood with a shotgun than death at the hands of some giant, mystical rat.
  The missions can be soloed or you can team up with other heroes... and for some reason the COH community 
 seems to be very into teaming up, as I have never had a session where I wasn't approached at least 
 two or three times to join forces with fellow heroes.
  Addressing the pay to play issue, $13 per month really isn't too much to ask when you consider 
 that this amount of money buys you about 3 comics and about 30 minutes of reading.
  Go out and buy COH and help make Paragon City a safer place to live! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AlienwareG
Rating: 9.1
Date: Apr 28, 2004 5:51 am PT
Review:  They finally made a fun mmorpg. No item hoarding, no camping, minimal downtime. The character creation 
 is almost perfect with the ability for for everyone to look different, and I mean everyone. I never 
 ran across anyone looking like any of my six heroes. You dont have to pay for extra characters 
 like in many other mmorpgs. Combat is fun and varied between the different classes. Its very involving 
 so your not just clicking on a enemy and staring at the screen hoping your stats are better then 
 the bad guy. Sound effects are great. The only dowside I found was no ambient music. You get treated 
 to a short tune when entering a new zone and thats it. Streaming your own music solves that problem 
 easily enough. In conclusion I recommmend this game to everyone. Mmorpg rookies and hardcore players 
 alike will find alot to like in City of Heroes. Good graphics, great character creation, fun combat, 
 minimal downtime, and besides who hasnt at one time or another wanted to create their own custon 
 superhero... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mtl68170
Rating: 9.6
Date: Apr 26, 2004 1:50 pm PT
Review:  Haven't had this much fun since EQ first came out. NCSOFT/Cryptic and finally reached the 1st Holy 
 Grail of MMOG's, character originality. Thousands of character suit and color combinations. Never 
 saw one hero look just like another. Amazing what just adding color customization will do.
  
  The most refreshing part was.... NO LAG. Or maybe it was... NO INVENTORIES! Let's face it, obtaining 
 a zillion items, trying to sell them, and trying store them is tiresome. Awesome powers and character 
 graphics. First time I shot an Energy Bolt from my robotic hands while hovering in the air, I almost 
 shouted with glee. This game just FEELS RIGHT. The city itself is bland in comparison, but still 
 done well and with a sense of atmoshphere. Big hit on their hands here. Will also lay groundwork 
 for future MMOG's. CHARACTER ORIGINALITY! WOOT!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dredra
Rating: 8.9
Date: Apr 26, 2004 7:08 am PT
Review:  This has to be one of the best mmorpgs to date if not the best. The character creation allows people 
 to make characters that are totally unique with "a chance in hell" of comming across another person 
 who looks exactly like you. The combat in the game is the fastest in any other mmorpg out there 
 and still offers an experience that is exciting and lasting. If anything can bring down this game 
 is the sound, sadly it is still the worst part of the game. The music only comes on when you come 
 through different zones in a city or zoning to a new city. Yet the sound effects are outstanding 
 and the overall feel of the game is totally original. I played everquest for 4+ years and been 
 in countless other mmorpgs like starwars galaxies, anarchy online, lineage 2, ect and never had 
 an experience this fun in an mmorpg ever. I would recommend this game to anyone who enjoys rpgs 
 and is looking for a refreshing change in the design of an mmorpg. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
