-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: City Life
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/strategy/citylife/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Deep, realistic city-building sim.
 Detailed graphics with helpful reports.
 Plenty of freedom when designing your city.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 A single recipe for success will fit most maps.
 Music can become a little annoying over time.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Jun  2, 2006
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7.8
Critic Score: 7.6, 37 Review (s)
User Score: 7.6, 1,053 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: cdv Software
Developer: Monte Cristo
Genre: Strategy
Date:     Jun 2, 2006 &raquo;  
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
City Life combines the fun of a city-building game with the challenge of a financial simulation, 
 though it requires patience and perseverance to master. 

  As one of the first city-building simulation games, SimCity's impact on the games industry cannot 
 be underestimated. For one thing, it launched the career of Will Wright, who went on to make the 
 best-selling game of all time with The Sims. But whilst sim games are popular nowadays with developers 
 and gamers alike, it's always been hard to emulate the impact that SimCity had. It's not prevented 
 people from trying, however, and City Life from Monte Cristo is the latest attempt. City Life takes 
 most of the key aspects found in any SimCity title and tosses in some financial planning aspects 
 and a fully 3D graphical engine that lets you get down to the nitty-gritty of your city on the 
 street level. It's not the most inventive city-builder ever made, but it can be a great deal of 
 fun.  

          It takes time, but with work your metropolis could look like this.     

  The basic aim of the game may be simple -- build a successful, sprawling, and happy metropolis -- but 
 in practice, it's not so easy. Your task isn't helped initially by the lack of a hands-on tutorial, 
 and instead the game offers a series of rudimentary screenshots with brief explanations. Although 
 they do cover the main areas of the game quite well, there's nothing quite like learning by doing. 
 However, the game does contain plenty of tooltips, as well as a quickstart guide for beginners, 
 whilst experienced sim gamers should find things fairly straightforward.  

  Your first choices in the game revolve around the type of environment in which you want to create 
 your masterpiece. There are five different zones available, differentiated by climate and land 
 type. Each zone has a number of individual maps to attempt, most of which will be locked at the 
 start of the game -- further maps become available as you successfully complete the initial ones. 
 You then purchase a piece of land with which to begin your empire. The real fun begins as you place 
 your base of operations -- the City Hall. Everything you construct in the game must be connected 
 in some way to what has already been built, but you can branch out in any direction you like, using 
 roads to link new developments with old.  

  Initially, your focus will be on small housing estates and businesses. The first priority is to 
 attract settlers to your new town, and the type of people that move in will be determined by a 
 number of factors. There are six classifications of residents in all; elites, suits, radical chics, 
 blue collars, fringes, and have-nots. Each has their own set of needs, and they scale downward 
 in roughly that order in terms of expectations, but they don't all see eye to eye. Therefore, you'll 
 need to be careful about where the different classes live and work to avoid civil disturbances 
 and possibly even riots.  

  As your town grows in size, you'll need to provide amenities for your citizens. Grocery stores, 
 medical centres, and primary schools will suffice for lower-population areas, but later on, only 
 expensive shopping centres and hospitals will do. There's also a fine balance to be had between 
 large businesses, power stations that provide profits and electricity, and the impact the resulting 
 pollution of these industries will have on residents' happiness levels. Each step of the way, it's 
 a challenge to make sure you provide all the basics whilst making a little profit to be able to 
 build the next part of town.  

          An act of God, or a sign of neighbourhood unrest?     

  Alongside all of this juggling 
 is a series of objectives for each map. These range from fairly simple tasks for the bronze award, 
 such as growing the population to a certain point or making a specific amount of profit per month, 
 to the more sophisticated elements of neighbourhood harmonisation and integration in the silver 
 and gold categories. It can be overwhelming to begin with, but there's a monitor in the corner 
 of the screen that gives you some indication of which buildings you should prioritise and where 
 the big problems are. A simple click on that report will display a list of possible solutions, 
 and you can pause the game at any time to take stock of the situation.  

  One problem you're likely to face sooner rather than later is your cash flow. Your initial purchase 
 of land will determine how much cash remains to fund your building projects, but you can take out 
 a loan to supplement this. Balancing the benefits of having additional resources to build revenue-generating 
 businesses with the cost of repayments and interest is just one of the decisions you'll need to 
 make.  

  If you do find you're struggling for money in the medium term, a series of reports are available 
 to help you troubleshoot the cause of the problem. Maybe your citizens are having difficulty getting 
 to work because of traffic congestion? One report will let you compare traffic levels on your roads 
 and determine if upgrades are required. On the other hand, perhaps you have too many buildings 
 that are draining funds? A separate report will show you the most profitable or costly buildings 
 in your city. It's worth noting that in the later stages of the game, the buildings that have the 
 greatest positive effect also cost the most to maintain -- you can quickly reduce your maintenance 
 payments by bulldozing an expensive structure, but this costs money in itself and will also have 
 a negative impact on the morale of the surrounding residents. Eventually, you'll become more adept 
 at balancing the demands of not just one citizen class, but all six. In truth, it can be a headache, 
 and it's here that you realise how important initial planning can be. A long-term view might seem 
 expensive and time-intensive to begin with, but it can help you avoid significant rebuilding later 
 on.  

  Other aspects of the game include the threat of fires breaking out, both accidentally and intentionally, 
 and even organised crime if unemployment is rife. As with most things in the game, there are obvious 
 solutions to both -- build a fire department and reduce unemployment -- though the implementation of 
 these solutions isn't always so straightforward. Once you've outgrown your initial patch of land, 
 you can buy more, assuming you have enough cash, and continue your expansion.  

          Jump into first-person mode to get a closer look at your city.     

  Visually, Monte 
 Cristo has done a nice job at re-creating the bustle that a city usually contains. Buildings will 
 change in appearance as different types of residents move in, and roads will change colour depending 
 on which type of citizen class that particular area appeals to the most. These visual cues make 
 it easier for the player to gain an overview of what's happening where, which helps as the city 
 begins to grow. What's more, there's even an option to abandon the traditional top-down view usually 
 associated with games of this type and wander around your creation in first-person mode instead. 
 It's not very useful in terms of governance, but it's a nice touch that lets you see things through 
 the eyes of your citizens. There is also some well-produced music within the game, though it seems 
 to cycle through tracks quite quickly and can become annoying if you're playing for long stretches. 
 And if the pressure of playing with objectives is too much for you, there's a freeform mode that 
 will let you build without the stress.  

  One significant criticism of the game in the long term is that fresh challenges are a little thin 
 on the ground. Although it can take a long time to create the perfect city, once you've done so 
 the first time, you've got a blueprint for most other maps in the game. The variety in climate 
 or land distribution in the various regions does make a difference in how you approach the task, 
 but on the whole, they're slight changes in flavour, rather than a whole new experience.  

  But overall City Life is the best city-builder in a long time, combining the addiction of needs-fulfillment 
 of any good sim game with a level of financial management that will prevent the game from ever 
 being too easy. City Life isn't quite up to the caliber of the franchise that inspired the vast 
 majority of its design, but it's still a rewarding and enjoyable city-building sim.  

      
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (50 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: WonderBread88
Rating: 4.5
Date: Mar 6, 2009 12:13 pm PT
Review:  Summary:
  --Let me put it simply, go buy ANY Sim City game and never think about this game again. This game 
 is a bad blend of Sim City and an overly difficult Wild Tangent strategy game. The best part of 
 the game is the graphics; they truly are awesome for a build-your-own-city simulation and strategy 
 game. The game is broken into two different play modes, scenario and free play. The main point 
 is to start off a city with an extremely poor social class and bring it up to an elite metropolis. 
 Sounds fun right? Wrong, this game has way too few features and details to be this difficult. If 
 only City Life hadn't wasted hours of my time and left me with a migraine. Too bad that it isn't 
 possible to utterly devastate my city to the point that Katrina victims felt good about themselves, 
 oh wait Sim City can do that!
  
  Key Positives:
  --Fantastic Graphics for a build-your-own-city simulation and strategy game.
  --Interesting way 
 that the city will "morph" as its social class gets better.
  --Good and large amount of music, however, after a while it gets a bit annoying.
  --Very easy 
 controls, probably the quickest controls out of any simulation/strategy game I have played.
  
  Key Negative:
  --Overly difficult
  --Too few details and options. They tried to make a 
 way to control the economy, but it's rather uninteresting and unhelpful.
  --There is this window in the bottom right hand side, I was unsure if it was trying to help me, 
 or if it was making fun of me, either way it seemed unhelpful and was empty half the time.
  --Terrible loan system. If the system that gave you loans was an actual bank, it would be partaking 
 in many illegal activities including: NOT allowing you to pay back loans, and continuously charging 
 you for debt even after the final date was past. Very annoying.
  --Rip-off of Sim City games
  
  Overall Worth Buying?
  Not at all, nor are the expansions. 
 Heck, even Sim City for Super Nintendo amused me more; at least Bowser (or possible look alike) 
 would come through your town occasionally, stirring up some trouble. As I said before, save yourself 
 from bashing your keyboard to bits from frustration, go buy Sim City 4 or something else.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: FirefoxNailui
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 1, 2008 6:41 am PT
Review:  This city building simulator emerges you in the hustle and bustle of day by day activities from 
 going to work, to seeing people shopping, some of them "die" on streets and you see the ambulance 
 coming... The dawn side is that once you made up your first 2 or 3 blocks of higher class citizens 
 the game gets way to easy for example... i spent 2 hours on building a 2 million city.. and after 
 that i spent another hour to reach it to about 54 millions and a daily profit of 55 564 a day so... 
 it kind-a-gets easy by the more time u spend with it. So u can build an American kind of a city 
 with it's little house districts or a skyscraper empire... you can chose to build your own electric 
 plants and disposal facilities or u can pay others to do that for you.... you can manage different 
 social groups, manage their needs and watch them evolve. You can have a big New York stile city 
 with lots skyscrapers, industry and tourism or you can have a city with lots of casinos, hotels, 
 bars etc. It's up to you so get your architect and start building your dream! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: johnnycool-22
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 25, 2008 12:20 pm PT
Review:  So, this is a honestly review about city life and it's the first time I review one of my favorite 
 games. Gamespot says it is a moderate game, worse than simcity .
  This opinion have the most players who played this game.
  I disagree with them, do you know why 
 ??? Read this..........................
  
  
  Many city-building games have passed through these years but only one I separated. Only city life.
 
  It has got smart Ideas , great gameplay , very good sound and a freedom In making your dream city! 
 The game Is hard , personally ,I spent more than 10 hours to learn the game and its secrets!
  But If you learn to play It, you will want to spent your time with this game, especially for its 
 3d graphics , so If you're a fan of city-building games, then If you buy this game, you won't be 
 disappointed!!
  
  Have a good time playing City life!!!
  
  BYE!!!^_^ 
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: powrbyalienware
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 23, 2007 4:30 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay: 8
  Graphics: 9
  Sound: 8
  Value: 8
  Tilt: 9
  
  The premise this game is based on is like a cross between SimCity 3000 and the Sims 2 - two of 
 my favourite games. The game blends this game very well - a bit more "Sims" flavor would be good, 
 though.
  
  This game's graphics will shock anyone with the power to play it. Every minute detail is replicated, 
 down to the very people on the street and their details. Breathtaking views of the scenery can 
 be done in photo mode, at a human "eye level" in the game.
  
  Sound quality is average, though some of the songs are good. Sadly, you cannot change the song 
 playing.
  
  Value: $19.99 is very good for $59.99 worth of game.
  
  Tilt: It is high because of the graphic detail in the game and the entertainment of managing a 
 metropolis. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: arsenalrvbest
Rating: 6
Date: Oct 15, 2007 11:04 am PT
Review:  I saw City Life in Woolworths. It was a bargain price at around &pound;5 and I thought to myself 
 in Top Gear style, 'How hard can it be to build a city?' So, as my own challenge, I bought City 
 Life for an insane price. I started playing and after notmuch time at all, I realised it was incredibly 
 difficult. I just gave up after a while. I just couldn't get the certain types of people to work 
 where I wanted them to. It annoyed me. It started well though, making the first bits, but when 
 I tried to expand and to get the higher classes in, it always went to pieces. If you're good at 
 city builders, sure buy it, but if you prefer shooting stuff up and speeding round corners in fast 
 cars, don't bother. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: danibus
Rating: 8.1
Date: Jul 15, 2007 4:52 pm PT
Review:  One thing I personally enjoyed about Sim City (3000) originally, was that once you had developed 
 a large enough town or area, you could watch the people go about their lives, travelling from their 
 home to work in a vague detail. Not caring about the financial stability or efficiency of the city 
 itself.
  
  City Life draws you in all day long, keeping you entertained with their close to great visuals 
 and fantastic building designs, and making sure you're never left behind with a Live Reporting 
 window on the screen keeping you up to date with anything you (as mayor) may need to address.
 
  
  Starting off, you're shown a large area of land on which you get to build. Your first only option 
 is to build your Town Hall as sort of solidarity to where you wish to start. You being building 
 homes and work places for your residents to work and earn you money through taxes and soon you 
 find a cosy looking village set out in front of you. It doesn't take long however, before you realise 
 the real difference between this and all the other games of it's type.
  
  One absolute gem about this game that really puts a fantastic new spin on the genre is the Social 
 Groups aspect. There are six in total, starting with the Have-Nots moving right up to the elites 
 which make the most income but are the most demanding.
  
  Each social group has it's own demands and separate fancies to their lifestyle. The Have-Nots , 
 being the lowest of class, if you will, have very few needs, and only wish for a place to live 
 and work. Fringes , my personal favourites, lean a little more to the educational side of life, 
 but are slightly laid back. Blue Collars are more focused on safety, and are not usually attracted 
 to a city without decent Fire or Police protection.
  
  These are only the basic 3 that you begin with, but once your city flourishes and begins raking 
 in real dough, the higher rated residents begin to move in. But that's not necessarily the real 
 challenge, although it does get tough with more demanding residents.
  
  The smart side of designing these social groups, is that each group has friendly and unfriendly 
 terms with the other 5. For example, look out for trouble within your city if you leave Blue Collars 
 and Fringes alone too long. No one likes a riot in their town! Or at least some of us don't...
 
  
  It's all very intricate and intense, yet playable for hours. There is nothing more satisfying than 
 working hard on a city and seeing it working in perfect harmony. Which is where the bad parts come 
 in...
  
  It took me at least 9 months of on and off gaming before I could get it remotely right. So many 
 times I started playing and it almost seemed as if there is one and only one way in which you succeed. 
 Sure you could design your city as personally as you'd like, but if there are any faults, your 
 city will feel it. Hopefully it's not just me who feels that, but those who are not used to these 
 type of games, prepare for hours of practice and logical thinking!!
  
  All in all, I do love this game, even the borderline cheesy music is nice enough for me to not 
 want to scratch my ears off with cheese graters. It's fun to play, it looks gorgeous, and from 
 the screen shots I've seen, it sure looks spectacular when you've got a full blown city built!! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bobbyb2006
Rating: 5.9
Date: Jul 10, 2007 11:30 pm PT
Review:  The only good thing that comes out of this game is the amazing graphics. But, aside from that - 
 the game is very boring, difficult, and way too complicated. Get Sim City 4 or sumthing instead, 
 because this is very VERY difficult! I really don't think it's that much fun to put each and every 
 house in, rather than just letting them be built like in Sim City, or the whole Blue Collars, Poverty, 
 blah blah - who cares who lives where? It's confusing making sure not too build a fancy restaurant 
 too close to the poverty part of town, or they'll get mad and riots and stuff
  
  Very repetivie music, and gameplay is terrible (place buildings in w/ no life ) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Asheroo
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 27, 2007 2:00 pm PT
Review:  This game is a very good game. It is better than sim city 4, although there are a lot of features 
 that don't exist in city life from sim city. The best part is that it's 3D. For once there is a 
 3D city building game. And it's made by the FRENCH developer of Monte Cristo! The buildings are 
 21st Century so don't expect sim city like buildings. The six cultures bring in something new to 
 keep us challenged. The music in it is a bit peaceful but can be annoying, but at least u can put 
 ur own music in it. The graphics are so good, and so is the frame rate. There isn't a much of a 
 range of buildings to build. The leisure activities section is pretty cool. Overall if u are a 
 sim city fan, u have to buy this game. It's good, it's 3D and it's more challenging than sim city, 
 although only by a little bit. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: peterp94
Rating: 3.6
Date: May 16, 2007 10:21 pm PT
Review:  City Life was a big drag. The same music can make you a little frustrated and The Cultural thing 
 is bad. To make a culture right, you gotta find a place to put the building (house) but one spot 
 you find can be a random culture that spawns there. (eg if there is 3 cultures who inhabit that 
 land)
  City life is the baddest game ive ever met personally. This will be a bad review from a person 
 who has bought it. luckily, I got a refund on the product.
  I recommend you do not buy City Life. Get Sim City 4 or 5 instead.
  
  Thank You for Reading!
 
  Happy Gaming! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: marmadukeleet
Rating: 8.6
Date: Apr 15, 2007 10:43 am PT
Review:  Just purchased the game through steam because I had a hankering for a city builder, and was surprised 
 when the game turned out to not be what I expected: a SimCity clone. There is no zoning, you have 
 to build each building individually, which seems tedious, but it gives you a greater amount of 
 control. There are 6 social groups that are arranged in a series of alliances and conflicts. Basically 
 they are arranged according to education, income, preference for security, etc. And while there 
 are certain groups that are at odds (such as the Elites and Have-nots, and the radicals and the 
 blue collars) They need each other to build a viable and sustainable city. You need the radicals 
 to teach in the schools, and you need the blue collars to be police officers. This is worked through 
 city planning to build neighborhoods for the different groups. You attract them with jobs of their 
 type and leisure buildings (bars, restaurants) that are attractive. To allow the different groups 
 to interact without coming in contact (allowing blue collar police departments in the radical area) 
 you need to build an effective road way that will allow commuters to travel that distance (Travel 
 distance is reduced by congested roads) . The goal eventually becomes evolving all of your citizens 
 into upper class, but even still you need lower classes to maintain the services that the upper 
 class desire.
  
  So basically for this game, there are several mechanics that you have to deal with to create a 
 large, self sustaining, peaceful city. It is very easy to have your finances get out of whack, 
 and it is very hard to recover once it starts spinning out of control. Other things that add to 
 the experience is a fully 3D camera that allows you to get up close and personal. I remember one 
 moment when I was looking at my Ghetto (the have-nots section) and one of the leisure buildings 
 had a party going on, and I noticed a little have not DJ, and the crowds of people dancing reminded 
 me of the Matrix dance scene in Matrix Reloaded. Little things like that make this game immersive.
 
  
  All in all this is a fun city builder with unique mechanics and a difficult game style. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lyndy62
Rating: 6.5
Date: Apr 15, 2007 7:58 am PT
Review:  I wanted this game when I first heard about it. I mean how great would a sim city be in 3D? Yet, 
 I was turned off immediately when I heard that the game has fairly intrusive copy protection. I 
 still got the game hoping that it would run inspite of the protection software.. and it did. When 
 I started to play it, I was enthralled with the idea that I had different social classes that I 
 had to bring together in a harmonious way. In theory, this is fun stuff, But in reality, the game 
 just doesnt act the way it should when the population grows. Things like unemployed people when 
 there are jobs everywhere. All of the things required are in place for a social group, yet none 
 will move in. It seems almost as though the AI forgets what it is there for.. weird.
  
  Anyway... the game is good for an afternoon of horsing around, yet doesnt have the staying power 
 of a sim city 4. Neither does it have the vast number of options that a sim city 4 has.. especially 
 with rush hour.
  
  I hear that there are rumors for a new sim city.. a sim city 5 if you will. If you really want 
 to try this out, go for it.. I bought it for $20 in a value bin at gamestop. Personally I am glad 
 I tried it out since it just reminded me of how great Sim City 4 is. In fact after playing this 
 for an afternoon, I broke out my old simcity4 game and played with it for about a week straight.. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kezsim
Rating: 3.4
Date: Apr 13, 2007 6:52 pm PT
Review:  I know it's been a long wait, but to all reading this, please just hold out a little longer, for 
 SimCity 5. a while back I decided I could not wait any longer, so I bought this game, and what 
 a mistake it was. Dont let the pretty graphics fool you, the game play is horrific. as opposed 
 to SimCitys intelligent zoning system, city life has this caste system, of rich and poor, but 
 remember, this is a French game, so in the end its the same old story, the Bourgeoisie at the top 
 V. S. Proletariat at the bottom, the point of this game is to shove French politics and history 
 down our throats, by making knock offs of an American games. they took advantage of Will Wrights 
 Spore Ignore to dazzle you with graphics, but SimCity 5 will have all that and more, not to mention 
 the abysmal music, IT'S THE SAME SONG OVER AND OVER AGAIN!!!! which is fine, if you have Alzheimers. 
 the one thing that angers me the most is the lack of transportation systems, you would o thought 
 France, home of currently the worlds fastest train, would at least have ONE TRAIN!!! but no, 99.9% 
 of vehicles I see in city life are imitations of Volkswagen bugs and busses. And after that, they 
 pulled a fast one on me. I bought the game shortly after it came out, and immediately after I bought 
 it, they came out with an improved world edition! I feel sorry for anyone who reserved this game. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: browneyedboy82
Rating: 5.3
Date: Mar 23, 2007 3:15 pm PT
Review:  I've played games like this a lot and expected much more from this game, to be much more and better 
 than the Sim City games. But sorry to say, this game wont deliver that.
  
  I like the graphics and sounds in this game. Also enjoy how much I'm able to zoom in as well, being 
 able to walk on the streets along with your inhabitants.
  
  If there will be a sequel to this, I hope they will improve the gameplay of the game. It's really 
 hard to learn how to do things and to get it right is even harder.
  
  As said before, I'll be waiting for Sim City 5. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: VercettiTommyy
Rating: 9.9
Date: Mar 11, 2007 12:19 pm PT
Review:  From all the modern city builders, Sim City 4 Rush Hour was my favorite,&amp; after it, Tycoon City 
 New York. City Life firstly amazes with the superb graphics, with max zoom, better than in Tycoon 
 City New York, almost as good as in an action game. The sound is good,&amp; the music is quite relaxing. 
 The city building part of the game is very complex &amp; superb realised. Hundreads of  
 of possibilities. Many types of terrain, climat zone, etc. The very interesting polulation classes 
 (Have Nots, Blue Collars, Fringes, Suits, Radical Chics &amp; Elites, each one with their specific 
 things) is the essence of the game. City Life is underappreciated because it is too complex &amp; 
 hard for most of the gamers, but it is trully a masterpiece. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tipexcom2
Rating: 6.3
Date: Feb 27, 2007 9:11 am PT
Review:  As Im one for city building games and people simulations (i. e. The Sims 1 &amp; 2) I thought this 
 game would be ideal: managing different social groups as well as building a city which could evolve 
 into a metropolis. What could be better?
  
  I started off (naturally) with the tutorial, right from the beginning I was most put off by the 
 annoying zoom function  the game highlights (turns white) an area which is to be zoomed into. 
 After a while I felt this was highly unneeded, I know where I want to zoom into if I choose it 
 myself. Despite this I continued. One thing which I was looking forward to was being able to walk 
 in my own City, something SimCity has not yet done. I was disappointed. The graphic quality was 
 not what I had expected from such a hyped up game. After playing for more time my list of grievances 
 grew - the games system of handling city building and micro management was muddled and irritating. 
 All in all it looked like a super game but too many minor flaws make it a chore to play  stick 
 to SimCity! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tomdogg
Rating: 7.9
Date: Dec 27, 2006 10:27 am PT
Review:  Remember back in the good ol days (1989) when SimCity came out. Was that a good game or what. It 
 was so unique, fun, and challenging, that the game was an instant hit. Almost twenty years pass, 
 and already, SimCity has had three sequels. While some were better than other, SimCity sequels 
 lacked somethinga more modern feel and updated visuals. City life fixes all that and more. While 
 its not from the makers of SimCity, City life gives a fresh new take on a classic game.
  
  There really is no story in City Life (Nor in SimCity.) Make your own story.
  
  Graphics- 8/10
 
  As I said before, SimCity needed more modern graphics and a more atmospheric feel. City Life manages 
 to fix all that. The game looks great. The game allows players to zoom in much further than SimCity 
 did and theres even a first person view mode where you can explore your city street by street. 
 The detail done to the city is great and some of the other touches like the smoke, water reflections, 
 etc are also cool looking. Everything looks very well polished and gives a nice feel to the game. 
 The only real point where the graphics feel dated is the character models. Most, if not all of 
 the character models look very dated and theres not much animation to them. Other than that, the 
 visuals are good overall.
  
  Sound- 7/10
  The sound is mostly good on the whole. The majority of the sound effects however, take place when 
 building the city or clicking on a certain building. There are some sound effects that also take 
 place when in first person view mode such people beating up other people, fire trucks putting out 
 fires, police breaking fights up, etc. While there is hardly any voice acting, theres also hardly 
 any music. There are maybe only a few tracks that can get a little annoying over time and drive 
 some people crazy. Still, the sound is decent overall, just nothing too spectacular.
  
  Gameplay- 8/10
  Just think SimCity in 3D. Thats basically what this game boils down to. First, 
 you place the City Hall building which serves as a command center for the city. Then comes the 
 time to start building the surrounding neighborhoods. Unlike SimCity, there are no separate residential, 
 commercial and industrial areas. Instead, there are separate neighborhoods where every zone comes 
 together in one package. There are six different social culture groups, each who are looking to 
 have great influence on the city. What culture takes over what neighborhood, is completely up to 
 players. By placing the cultures businesses and recreational building in the neighborhood, that 
 will determine what culture takes over what neighborhood. For example, if someone wanted the Blue 
 Collars to take over a neighborhood, all he/she would have to do is place their businesses and 
 recreation activities in that spot and the Blue Collars would take over shortly after that. However, 
 a few Fringes might move in and that creates Cultural Conflict. This happens when two opposing 
 cultures move into the same area. The two cultures start harassing each other and that can soon 
 lead to riots. The conflict may even lead to a point where the SWAT team may have to come in and 
 settle things the hard way. Therefore, its important that players keep the peace moving along. 
 However, some cultures may like each other and wont mind if another culture moves in. As for power, 
 water, etc, players wont need to add all that fancy stuff in. Instead, all they really need is 
 power and waste management. Its also a good idea to put the power plants next to a neighborhood 
 where the building offers jobs, as only certain cultures work in certain power plants. This goes 
 with every building that is not specifically dedicated to a certain culture. Some places like the 
 grocery store and police station allow multiple cultures to work in the same building. Its really 
 cool to see how different the social behavior is in this game. Other needs of the people include 
 parks and playgrounds to support the surroundings needs, schools to support education and help 
 the higher cultures come into the city, and hospitals and medical offices to support the healthcare 
 need. Unlike SimCity where if two circles overlap the satisfaction of the need will increase, players 
 need many types of whatever the peoples need may be in one area for the satisfaction of that need 
 to go up. For example, if two hospital circles overlap, it will make no difference in satisfaction. 
 However, if a hospital and a medical office are in the same area, that will boost the satisfaction. 
 Players can also buy land to expand the city, and can also receive keys to unlock more land.
  
  Problems are minor. The game really lacks no challenge once players get the hang of the game, 
 and the game really loses all of its challenge when players figure out how to solve the problems. 
 A single plan for success fits almost every map, and theres really no diversity in solving problems.
 
  
  Overall, City Life is really a fresh take on a classic genre. Computer Games Magazine 
::::::

::::::
UserName: commanderkai
Rating: 7.8
Date: Dec 24, 2006 10:07 pm PT
Review:  Ahh... it's been a while since I bought this, and I remember why I did too... Simcity 4 was getting 
 a little too tiresome to play. So this title came out and I picked it up after a while.
  
  At first., I enjoyed it. The Social class conflicts and the cliques were all fun, and it was cool 
 with how they affected the game as well, like new buildings that were unlocked. (An example, getting 
 white collar workers gave you the option to build a nuclear power plant) I liked how the road system 
 was upgradable whenever you needed it, and how you can choose what buildings go where commonly 
 (major exception is what class house is built where)
  
  It was fun, I enjoyed building great cities..... BUT..... after a while, things bothered me. First.... the 
 lack of buildings. You get tired of the same 2 or 3 skyscrapers for that one society class over 
 and over and over. I want variety. Randomize the buildings as you click, give some more billboards 
 or even change the design etc etc etc. Two, the LACK OF WONDERS. Dear God this was the worst. I 
 build great cities, but there was nothing to even make it unique. Three, the maps. Too small to 
 really be any good later in the game. and half of the terrain is barely usable. I'm probably gonna 
 get the expansion pack for the game.... but I really hope this gets addressed. This game has a lot 
 of potential... hopefully they do even better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Thesimsfrk111
Rating: 9.2
Date: Oct 30, 2006 5:45 pm PT
Review:  ~DEMO REVIEW~
  
  Well, it is a nice Sim City Clone.
  I think it is the first.
  Is it the first?
  Well w/e the demo was fun.
  I liked building my cities and looking at my 
 crowded highways.
  It was total fun.
  It is, ya gotta admit, at least fun for Awhile .
  I mean come on.
  Look at the little red necks.
  And look at the HOBOS!!!
  OMG there are HOBOS.
 
  I LIKE HOBOS!!!
  *Ehem* Sorry 'bout that.
  The only Con I see rally to this is not as much variety as Sim City 4, heck, not as much varitety 
 as Sim City 3000!!! Maybe even Sim City 2000!!! (*GASP*) .
  BTW (0.0) &gt; Kirby is w00ting (*Ehem* Dancing. Sorry 'bout that... Damn I love that line!!! OMG 
 that is strange...)
  
  SUM IT UP SENTENCE: The Demo has my approval of GOOD DOWNLOAD, Download when you have some down 
 time! :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DidiCardoso
Rating: 6.8
Date: Oct 18, 2006 5:35 pm PT
Review:  Do you ever go out and think your city could really benefit from a different layout? That the roads 
 aren't efficient and you could solve traffic jams by demolishing a building or two and adding an 
 extra route? That major services are too far away from the area you live in? Then you probably 
 share my passion for city-building games.
  
  City Life is a city sim that follows the guidelines of SimCity. Urban planning is crucial, but 
 the innovation is the social component that makes that planning even more challenging. While the 
 game involves addressing the same problems we are familiar with as Mayors (traffic, industry, commerce, 
 budget, residences, crime) there is a social hierarchy that you must pay attention to while planning 
 and building.
  
  There are six social classes: Have-Not, Fringe, Blue Collar, Suit, Radical Chic and Elite (in this 
 order, from low to high) . Each of the classes has a certain group they feel comfortable living 
 with and other groups that they totally dislike and can't stand being around of. For example, Elites 
 can't get along with Have-Nots, neither can Suits with Fringes.
  
  So now in addition to providing residential and commercial zones you have a new strategic component: 
 to take into account the social aspect of the game, managing which classes live in certain neighborhoods. 
 Mix them up randomly and you will end up with a bunch of unhappy citizens organizing riots.
  
  However, you can't really pick where your citizens will live, but there are certain buildings 
 and facilities that attract a specific social class (i. e. industries will have a series of Have-Nots 
 looking for a job, while Fringes will come to hang out at underground bars) .
  
  The ultimate goal is to make sure all these classes are happy coexisting with one another. But 
 eventually, balancing it all out becomes a problem, as the city and its respective population grow. 
 Take grocery stores, for example. Everyone in each social class makes use of grocery stores, but 
 only Fringers can get a job in them sooner or later you will end up with a social conflict.
  
  The buildings are interesting to see, since each of them seems to fit in with the community 
 and social class it belongs to. Buildings in a Fringe area will have graffiti art on the walls, 
 while a Blue Collar residential zone will sport swimming pools and pick-up trucks on the driveways.
 
  
  Your City Hall changes in size and appearance with prestige. The more impressive it becomes and 
 the more citizens you get, the more structures you will be able to access later. Think of it as 
 unlockables, and they range from skyscrapers to marinas and all sorts of useful facilities (hospitals, 
 airports, schools, movie theatres, even a games studio) .
  
  To enjoy your city from a different perspective, you can go into first-person mode and parade around 
 watching everything through a citizen's eyes. This is actually a good way to spot protesters or 
 traffic jams, find a good location for a certain service, even watch little gang fights between 
 different class members. You also get to see that your citizens happen to be clones of each other 
 and everyone from the same social class wears the same clothing. Unfortunately, the camera options 
 are limited and you can't look up or down. This type of game usually sports tons of data: migration, 
 demographics, tax revenue... City Life is no exception, but the data could have been presented 
 in a better way. A tutorial other than a slideshow would probably have been better to make players 
 who are new to the genre accustomed with things. However, the game does give you little hints during 
 gameplay.
  
  Overall, this is an engrossing game with tons of options (maybe too many) , offering a different 
 take on city building. With a few tweaks here and there, City Life could have been a much better 
 title.
  
  Review text part of Grrlgamer. com. Full review and screenshots at
  http://www. grrlgamer. com/review. php? g=citylife 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ruan404
Rating: 7.8
Date: Sep 26, 2006 7:51 am PT
Review:  when is started playing it. it was fun but u get bored as the time passes ebcasue the same thing 
 happens over and over. But it is very fun in the beginning. The controling of the building and 
 controlling things are nice adn easy adn easy to understand which ameks the game fun adn the it 
 isnt as difficult as sim city 4. It is simple, build run and control ur debts. YOu cans ee people 
 when u zoom in and there are disasters and all kinds of things that can happen if u liek sim games 
 this one is good. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thesinginlucas
Rating: 6.5
Date: Sep 3, 2006 6:51 pm PT
Review:  This game kinda sucks. Other than the obvious graphical improvements since the early sim city games 
 (which this seems to have spawned from) , the game itself is very boring. There are no natural disasters 
 at all, the terrain editor is difficult to use and not practical at all, so that part pretty much 
 sucks, and it is far to difficult to achieve anything beyond a small annoying city, that is largely 
 in debt, and struggling with cultural tension. I was very dissapointed with this game and would 
 strongly discourage anyone from buying it unless you're a sim FREAK or a city architect. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bioinfomatic
Rating: 7.6
Date: Aug 30, 2006 7:55 pm PT
Review:  For almost as long as I can remember owning a computer of some sort, I can remember a Sim City 
 game being available. The title that launched the career of game designer extraordinaire, Will 
 Wright, launched a series of sequels, knockoffs and outright me-too ripoffs. That's because the 
 addictive play style and level of strategy required to succeed challenged folks from ordinary gamers 
 to aspiring city planners and every one in between. Yet despite so many imitators, few games have 
 ever really captured to lightning-in-a-bottle appeal of Wright's original title  especially those 
 in which Wright was not involved. Still, that doesn't mean folks won't try. The latest, at least, 
 have a solid resume in sim-style games. Developer Monte Cristo had a bona fide hit of there own 
 a couple years ago with the addictive Caribbean political sim, Tropico. This time, Monte Cristo 
 is forsaking sun-drenched beaches for a far more urban setting in City Life. The result is a Sim 
 City clone brought into the 21st century. Sporting a 3D world and a financial planning model that 
 Sim City never had, City Life at least brings some new elements to the me-too table. Unfortunately, 
 familiarity breeds lethargy as the game lacks any sort of tutorial mode for beginners; Monte Cristo 
 seems to rely on the familiarity of the genre to orient gamers to the basics of the game. Fortunately, 
 it's not exactly rocket science, so the controls are not overly hard to pick up, though the lack 
 of a hands-on tutorial lengthens the learning curve for gamers who may not be vets of other Sim 
 City-style games. Starting out, you'll choose the type of climate you want to begin your city in, 
 set up your City Hall home base, and begin building. Each climate sports several different maps 
 from which to build, and some of the climate types and maps are locked initially, but open up as 
 you achieve goals within the game. The types of buildings you can construct are initially limited 
 by technology and funds  you have to be a small city before you can be a big one, so you'll want 
 to establish a base of residential and business zones before building a pro football stadium, for 
 example. Planning ahead is a huge key to building a successful city, however. Any new construction 
 has to be adjacent to preexisting structures, so thinking ahead not only to the next year, but 
 the next 50 years, is a key to a well-designed city. You can't just plop down a shoe factory next 
 to a bunch of houses and expect to have a well-organized residential and industrial structure to 
 your urban center later on in the game. A good strategy is to use a compass strategy  residential 
 development to the north, industrial to the east, commercial-retail to the south and so on. While 
 a bit basic, it provides a core approach to build on as time goes by. Unlike previous Sim City 
 clones, however, it's not enough to sport good city design alone; you must manage things like finances, 
 a harmonious urban atmosphere and the popularity of your management style; if districts are not 
 profitable on a regular basis, unrest will grow and result in a disruption to all your efforts 
 to grow the city. Sure, it's not as snarky as having Godzilla tear a path of destruction through 
 your city, as in some of Wright's Sim City incarnations, but it's still challenging. On the downside, 
 City Life has a fairly linear model for success in the long run. While maps and climate changes 
 toss a bit of variety in the mix for challenges to overcome, the basic formula for building a successful 
 city doesn't change much at all. That's where Wright's classic still has the upper-hand; as 2D 
 and retro as it may be, Sim City still offers more paths to successful urban design that does CDV's 
 offering. Still, none of the imitators on the market are as sparkly and modern-looking as City 
 Life, which does sport a great model of portraying the bustle and busy activity of a large city. 
 It's been a long time since the last decent update to Sim City and even longer since a me-too clone 
 has actually been pulled off this well. So even despite the lack of variety for reaching a successful 
 city development, City Life is intriguing enough to be worth some time and attention, even though 
 it's not quite as surprising and inventive as a genuine Wright-designed game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Peets83
Rating: 7.1
Date: Aug 5, 2006 3:51 pm PT
Review:  First I was impressed of how they delivered the game. Different types of groups made into a working 
 system. I quickly started with a campaign and had a lot of fun. Finished it in 16 hours, had my 
 fun but then the game was over. The other campaigns are almost the same, only different landscape 
 and it takes a little longer to get the gold medal but at the end you always end up doing the same 
 thing.
  
  Graphics are well done. No complains here.
  
  Gameplay was ok, didn't got addicted at it. Only needed more challenges, something to aim at. After 
 you get the gold medal, only fun left is to build everything full. Not my type of play. I want 
 have some goals which I couldn't find.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: smartsurf
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 7, 2006 8:32 pm PT
Review:  STOP!!!
  
  City Life IS NOT a SimCity clone! Most of the negative reviews seem to be coming from SC4 officianados 
 and that is just not fair comparison to a game that in no way tries to resemble the HO modeling 
 of SimCity.
  
  City Life, though a city building game, is not of the same ilk as SimCity. City Life uses a city 
 building theme that is more people oriented than SimCity's modeling oriented goals. In SimCity 
 you can have a thriving city of millions of people who have no needs except work and the shortest 
 route to get to work, yet they do not seem to care about eating (you don't have to have a restaurant 
 or store anywhere in a large metropolis to please the Sims) , but in City Life the people eat and 
 have personal needs that must be met, more so than in SimCity.
  
  I would best score City Life's opening offering with an 8.0 and quite a bit of potential for extreme 
 growth in coming evolutions. It would be nice to see more of the stats and needs of SimCity included, 
 which should be easy enough to do for the developers, but let's get the version 1.0 to market first.
 
  
  People are already starting to create personal buildings, like in SC4 and if the developers focus 
 more on even more NEEDS of the people, like HOME IMPROVEMENT CENTERS, GAS STATIONS, ELECTRONICS 
 STORES - CONSUMER STUFF for their City Lifers, watch out SimCity, but to compare City Life to Simcity 
 is a mistake, and if you play City Life as if it were Simcity, you'll be in for a rude, bankrupted 
 awakening! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: D_Master1991
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jul 23, 2006 12:57 pm PT
Review:  City Life is a game you'll need to play longer than the demo time to find it's a masterpiece.
 
  The graphics are a bit cartoony so even my minimal video card (nvidia 5700) can run it smoothly, 
 and who needs realistic graphs in a game like this?
  Exactly, no-one, it's all about gameplay.
  And that gameplay is really good, at first it will 
 look a bit simple but when your city grows and higher social classes start whining about facilities 
 you really need to think before you decide to build something, all the time you have to search 
 a good place for facilities.
  sound gets a bit annoying though, the music is fresh and light for the ears, but gets repetitive 
 after a while.
  Overall it's a really good game you have to try! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ponsay
Rating: 1
Date: Jul 17, 2006 5:10 pm PT
Review:  I purchased the game a couple days ago. I read the box for the pc requirements, which my pc met 
 and I installed the game with no problems. When I clicked on the icon to play the game it went 
 through the Star-Force security and shut down and rebooted my pc. I thought that it was necessary 
 to do that, but I find that the game wont play and thats all it does is reboot my pc.
  
  I did everything that was suggested on the CVD bulletin board such as shutting down the anti-virus; 
 anti-spy ware software and the firewall then reinstalled the game, same thing reboot. I went 
 back to the support page at CVD and found that all the suggestions they gave were not in my best 
 interest for a $40 game. PC games should install in less than an hour as long as your pc meets 
 the requirements on the packaging. My pc has all drivers updated and has an ATI 3D card that uses 
 128mb. 
  
  I see nothing that should call for me to spend more than 5 hours getting a game to install on my 
 pc or spend any more money to upgrade hardware for 1 game for that matter. So my advice to all 
 of you is leave this game on the shelf, customer service will NOT help you and you wont be able 
 to get your money back if you buy it at an electronics retail store. I threatened the company to 
 return the game 10 times because Im tired of this kind of issue re-occurring to us pc gamers, 
 so I was banned from their support pages. So far Ive returned it 5 times! Hope you have better 
 luck than I did.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Vendayn
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 2, 2006 7:29 pm PT
Review:  This is my city life review.
  
  Starforce: Don't see the big deal with it, must be because it rarely causes problems or something. 
 I haven't EVER had any Starforce problems with CL or any other game with starforce. Maybe some 
 people are unlucky or something I don't know, but maybe try exchanging copies for another one? 
 Starforce doesn't bother my PC or slow it down or anything. My specs: Win XP home edition, pentium 
 IV 3.0 GHz, 3 GB ram, geforce 6600 GT 10/10
  
  Gameplay: Somewhat like Simcity 4, to me its a little bit harder to get an economy going. But like 
 all strategy games once you figure out what to build and how to build it/where to build it, it 
 becomes much easier. I like the different cultures in my city and I like how I can actually get 
 skyscrapers much easier than SC4. I love how I can zoom into my city and actually feel like I am 
 part of it instead of just building whatever and wherever and not caring what my people are doing. 
 I also really like how I can purchase new land to keep expanding my city. What lowers the score 
 is not enough variety in people or buildings or cars. It would also have been nice to have more 
 random events or disasters happen. But to me, the gameplay is much more fun than SC4. I don't have 
 much else to add here. 8.0/10
  
  Graphics: The water graphics could have been worked on a little more, I would have liked to see 
 fish or something. I would also have liked to see people on the beach or animals. Although the 
 city graphics are great and I like the birds that occasionally fly by. Although I find it strange 
 that when I see a plane shadow flying over my city when I zoom out to see it, it suddenly dissapears. 
 I don't really have much to add but despite the negatives I like them. Like I mentioned before, 
 it would also been nice to get a more variety of buildings/people and cars 7.0/10
  
  Sound/Music: Not much to add, but I have no complaints... I like the music. 9/10
  
  Overall, 
 I really enjoy city life. It could use improvements but its a lot of fun. I have no problems with 
 Starforce but thats not to say others do have problems with it. I like city life much better than 
 simcity myself. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mcdadi2000
Rating: 4.8
Date: Jul 2, 2006 1:17 pm PT
Review:  This game is far from an decent economic strategy one. I like economic strategy games but this 
 one is boring and in some strange way "hard". Hard is because you have to ballance too much between 
 high class, middle class and poor one. Is hard cause this classes are very sensible and for the 
 very hard thing there is other higher classes too. If this is not enaugh you lose money from all 
 utility services that you build. Even if you build a casino the money you gain are so few. Some 
 buildings even if they are at full capacity of people employed and very decent placed in the map 
 they are making negative revenues and it get's frustrating. You reach bronze medal very easy... 
 but further even if you have all the money you need it takes ages to progress... At this point, 
 when you realise all this, the game get's really boring and very soon uninstalled :)
  Hope they try harder next time cause making economic strategy games is not "a child's play"... 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: warstomp
Rating: 3.9
Date: Jul 1, 2006 12:10 am PT
Review:  It is a fun for sometime but after awhile it gets 
  
  1. Not enough content. You can't make as much stuff as you can in SimCity 4 is much more stuff.
 
  
  2. You need to put every business down individually and that takes forever. 
  
  3. I have to say it again their is not enough content were as Simcity has more to do.
  
  4. 
 The budget system is awfull. Its basicly heres your budget and heres loans woohoo. They need those 
 programs like clean air car pool. You feel like you don't have enough control over your City.
 
  
  5. Atleast SimCity 4 has a good tutorial showing you how to play and stuff. While as this game 
 you get like little text video things. Well how does that help me morons who developed this game.
 
  
  6. Their is not enough stuff to make and build.
  
  7. Gets very boring after you play for awhile. Just not enough to do. Gets old boring.
  
  8. 
 It seems like making things like bars and stuff they call leisures. Don't even make your people 
 happy.
  
  9. Nothing bad happens Fires riots nothing.
  
  10. If you could control disasters and be a god sorta like in Simcity 4 it would be more fun.
 
  
  11. Graphics suck until you zoom close in.
  
  12. Sound is alright.
  
  13. The road system sucks its awfull. 3 lane roads do not look like a 3 lane road.
  
  Some 
 good things.
  
  1. You can scroll down very low and actually watch the people and stuff walk around. 
  
  2. 
 The sound is fine i would say.
  
  Conclusion: All in all i think you should save your money. Or if you don't own SimCity 4 buy that 
 instead. This is a cheap immatation of it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zellwwf
Rating: 7.3
Date: Jun 30, 2006 9:37 pm PT
Review:  They are trying to beat SimCity 4! Nothing is like SimCity 4! Although It is a nice game! Awesome 
 Graphics. BORING music! If you have extra cash you should buy it! But remember, as a gameplay it 
 is a simpler edition of Simcity! And we are all waiting for SimCity 5! But really you could feel 
 the city living with its high graphic details"
  And with the 1st person View you will leave the game and just watch what a city you have built! 
 But As you play you will sometimes get excited and sometimes you feel as if you're stuck and cannot 
 play! Wanting only to smash the computer ( use cheats!) . The game is easier that simcity! I am 
 a simcity FREAK so...! If your A CITY BUILDING Addict, i suggest that you buy this game. Till now 
 30/ June / 2006 I couldn't find it at www. SRtest. com
  SRtest. com is a good site to test your comuter for the game your buying.
  Thanks to All
  E-mail 
 me At:
  Zellwwf@hotmail. com 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RLJSlick
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jun 23, 2006 10:49 pm PT
Review:  When I first heard of this game, I didnt have a lot of hopes for it, first because Monte Cristo 
 had a fairly bad track record for games, second because no one else have been able to capture the 
 true life of city living. Maxis Sim City have in the past done a great game job of designing the 
 infrastructure of a city, but no one have ever did the society tension of a growing city. This, 
 as far as I know, is the first time anyone tried to design such of thing, and unfortunately it 
 was done fairly badly. This game just dont seem to do anything more exciting then laying down 
 roads, and building beat up old buildings. Ive spent hours and hours just to get something of 
 interest to happen, but either from bad design, or execution on my part, nothing of real interests 
 ever happens.
  The graphics seem to be fairly well done, there are people walking around in the city, though there 
 seem to be very few different types of folks, you can see blocks and blocks of the same people 
 walking around, which is very weak in a game such as this. Tycoon City seem to have tons more different 
 people. The sound is there but seems repetitive and not much of even that. 
  If someone could design a game with the awesome power of city designing like Sim City, and do a 
 better job of the social impact of living in a city with different cultures that City Life tried 
 to accomplish in this game, that would really be something to see. Until then I will continue to 
 play Sim City, and box this puppy up for the next rummage sale. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: CorpFlash1
Rating: 3
Date: Jun 23, 2006 3:49 pm PT
Review:  This game has a great concept and had it been developed by maxis I'm sure it would have been fantastic. 
 Unfortunately, it was not.
  The severe limitations in terrain is probably the worst aspect of the game. With only 5 maps to 
 play things get boring pretty quick. 
  The best aspect of the game is the social aspect. In sim city you only needed to worry about keeping 
 the trash and heavy industry away from the rest of the city. In this game you need to keep different 
 classes of people away from each other. It makes the actual city building more strategic. 
  One last complaint, the number of different types of buildings is just plain stupid. It became 
 so redundant that I was done playing after about 6 hours. Anyone need a copy? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: solidhelium
Rating: 4.3
Date: Jun 23, 2006 2:20 pm PT
Review:  As a big fan of Sim City, I thought I'd give this a shot. Well, I was left quite disappointed after 
 the first 30 minutess of game play. It is an interesting approach to the city-building-simulation, 
 but it felt like the game came out a few years too early. 
  
  Let's talk about the graphics. I have a ATI Radeon 9600. Yes, it's a bit dated. Playing City Life 
 on my computer was painful. The graphics look like mush, and the screen keeps flashing black every 
 so often... making me want to gouge my eyes out. I had hoped that the 3D engine would allow full 
 control of the camera, similar to Black & White 2 where you can control the angle of the camera, 
 but unfortunately, you only get to zoom in or out and rotate. 
  Of course, one of the main things that caught my eye when I first played it was the water reflections. 
 They are nice, but as a city simulation, I would rather have more features in the city building 
 than the miscellaneous stuff.
  
  The game doesn't have an interactive tutorial, which shows you how to build / manage your city. 
 Instead, you get a menu which has thumb-nail sized video (which are quite fuzzy / hard to see what 
 to press / do) . It would have helped if the tutorials were similar to the ones Sim City 4 had where 
 the user learns where the important buildings are.
  
  To be honest, the first thought that came to me after playing for the first hour was that this 
 is a over simplified version of Sim City 4. There is no demand meter for RCI. Instead, when you 
 continue to build, and the empty lots will automatically be filled with housing, even when there 
 is no infrastructure or work. Infrastructure such as subways, water, or power lines are not available, 
 which makes the game feel very shallow. Commercial and Industrial buildings are merged into "Business 
 buildings" in this game, and all "Business buildings" in this game is plopable only. (You can't 
 zone commercial zones and watch it grow like in SC4) .
  
  If you are a Sim City person, I would highly suggest staying away from this game. However, if you 
 are those people who find Sim City a hard game, City life may be the game for you.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: halofreak3487
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jun 18, 2006 8:41 pm PT
Review:  I heard rumors that this game was designed to be simple, and easier then Sim City. In some aspects, 
 but others... not really.
  
  The graphics are really good in this game, you can see people fighting each other and you can zoom 
 down to a horizantal ground view, which you can't do in Sim City. at close distant the graphics 
 dullen and lose detail which kind of bugged me, but if they were detailed the game would be very 
 slow... however from a far distance the graphics are extremly good (9) .
  
  I really liked the sound, kind of like Sim City but a bit more jazzy, the building obviously make 
 a noise when you click on it, and over all i think it's well sone (9) .
  
  Ok now Gameplay was pretty confusing at first. In this game you have to try to seperate the Red 
 from the Blues, and the Elites from the Reds and i just told my friend that i'm not going to play 
 it because this game just messed everything up by that feature. If you are patient and you take 
 the time to learn the game and the whole who to keep away from who, the you'll be fine. however 
 i do like it when you build buildings and it automattically builds roads for you. (7)
  
  The company tried to create something revolutionary for simulation games, just not the way it appeals 
 to me. I still prefer Sim City. But still if you love simulation games and your getting bored of 
 Sim City and really want a challenge this is the game for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ashevm
Rating: 7.9
Date: Jun 18, 2006 5:09 am PT
Review:  This game is a city building sim. It's pretty good although it doesn't reach Maxis' SimCity4 ankles. 
 It is not very complex but in the other hand, if it was mixed with SC4, the perfect sim would emerge. 
 The complexity and fun of SC4 joined with the social component and the great graphics of CL would 
 origin the perfect game.
  The gameplay is not bad and the idea of becoming a pedestrian inside the city is funny. It's a 
 good game to play although after few times playing it becomes a bit boring.
  To sum up: a good game, but I still prefer SimCity4! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 360motina
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jun 14, 2006 1:35 pm PT
Review:  City Life deals with the social aspect of a city and the inter-class struggles and conflicts. This 
 is actually easier than it sounds, especially starting off with the two subcultures, the fringes 
 (artists) and blue collars. It actually seems like an odd starting with the fringes, but you can.. 
 some how? Any small town I have been to, and actually have been raised one has been exclusively 
 a blue collar area. Of course there is also the third group of Have Nots, but they can be a little 
 hard to get, despite your city depending on them for some of the buildings interestingly enough. 
 And you need them to get the full return on those buildings. Ill cover this later. Now obtaining 
 the other subcultures can take on a challenge, and is not something you want to do right away, 
 even when you get certain building unlocked. But once you figure out how to maintain the support 
 building like the larger schools, shopping, hospitals, etc it is not really that hard.
  It would be nice if the shopping service actually gave a return. They can be really draining.
 
  The issue of traffic is rather simple.. a little too simple, and unrealistic. Not needing to tear 
 down any buildings for a three lane highway/road/street or whatever is somewhat of an impossibility, 
 or they could have just retextures the lower densities. Having huge sidewalks on a lower density 
 part of the neighbourhood is not realistic at all. It seems the issue of streets is a problem in 
 any city simulation game. I hate how bus stops and subways are handled the same way as SimCity. 
 They do not take up that much room, or if they do take up room, they are much larger than that. 
 Why they cannot be incorporated in the street is beyond me. Then again, with the three lane streets, 
 there is no room even for a side walk. The biggest improvement is in the ability to put streets 
 in any direction possible, now the only problem that arises in this is placing them so that you 
 can efficiently plop in the buildings. Starting off with such a small budget, this is not really 
 a viable option to stat off with.
  Fire is simply annoying. SimCity excelled at this at least, well past SC2000. In City Life, fire 
 spreads like fire in SC2000, but is handled lamest possibly way, and takes for ever to put out.
 
  The game is aesthetically pleases, and the building are rather not bad looking either, despite 
 not having much variation and leading to extreme redundancy and making the city look rather boring.
 
  The lack of map generation is the same as SimCity 4, and the size o the maps is limiting, and 
 once you fill them up, and even unlock them is limiting, although still taking some time to play 
 through them.
  Overall I like the game, but it has never given the enthusiasm as SimCity or the time well spent, 
 plus Simcity 4 is highly customizable, but perhaps some time need to pass before such features 
 are found in order to mod the game, but I have not looked into that. It is nice to see some more 
 variety, and hopefully some major improvements happen to SimCity 5, despite the idea Will Wright 
 gave out in making the next one more simplified, if they decide going forth with a next one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tiefster
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jun 13, 2006 12:29 pm PT
Review:  The is a solid game overall and makes a good attempt and showing class issues. I'll admit it is 
 a little confusing at first and it takes some time to get used to compared to Sim City but once 
 you streamline your approach it becomes a satisfying game.
  
  The Graphics in the game a decent but definitely not the best that could have been done for a large 
 scale city game. The good thing is that there are almost no graphical flaws and you can zoom to 
 an almost first person view and scroll around the street of your city to see how different social 
 groups live.
  
  The soundtrack is forgettable and gets to be annoying at time but it doesn't really add or take 
 away from the game.
  
  The things I'd've liked to see in this game were city ordinances, a better economic system, edicts, 
 and more social issues than just class struggles. The game sometimes comes off as Socialist because 
 things liek hospitals and police stations actually take away from your revenue instead of them 
 being privatized. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tieio
Rating: 6.3
Date: Jun 13, 2006 3:05 am PT
Review:  Sadly, I am not able to give this game a good review. Despite some of the good features of this 
 game, it is apparent that the makers of this game only borrowed an idea and somehow made it a little 
 worse. If you own Sim City 4, stick with it because it is far superior to this game. If you have 
 never played Sim City, you will find this game entertaining, it is pretty fun, in much the same 
 way vanilla ice cream is good while chocolate is a little better. Ok, maybe you like vanilla, but 
 it is a simple analogy, I am sure you get the drift.
  
  This will be a short review, since it isn't positive and I sort of wish I was typing a glowing 
 review, which are far more fun, but alas... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tombfyre
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jun 11, 2006 1:05 pm PT
Review:  
  City Life brings some new elements that we typically don't see in city building games. Its focus 
 on managing the 'cultures' of a city instead of focusing primarily on the economy of the city is 
 a refreshing Idea. 
  
  After the time I have spent playing and building a large city, I have to say that it is capable 
 of holding my attention and it is enjoyable. There are a few nagging issues that make it hard to 
 spend massive amounts of time playing the game. 
  
  It takes a while to get started in city life, and it will take some time before you can figure 
 out how a 'plopped' business from one culture changes the boundaries of that cultures influence. 
 It takes careful planning to make sure you don't suddenly cause the 'Have Nots' area spill into 
 another part of the city you want left as "fringe". As the city starts to grow you have to provide 
 services like shopping, police, fire, hospital, and entertainment. Doing this for each community 
 is pretty standard and straightforward. 
  
  As you progress in you unlock the final three cultures. Then you have to try to strategically place 
 them into your city. You begin to find that the more advanced businesses that you have been placing 
 in your current communities require individuals from the new cultures. So you have to find a way 
 to bring them to those areas and work. This is the part of the game that peaked my interest. It 
 was fun to try to get the new cultures and services into the city. 
  
  Traffic while it looks 'pretty' it is very simplistic, and reminds me of SimCity 2000 or 3000. 
 There does appear to be 'trips' like SimCity 4, but you will see segments of road and highway with 
 100s of cars on it.. that magically disappears on the other end of the road segment. Mass Transit 
 is incredibly simple and is essentially just something you place down to lower traffic. 
  
  City Life is interesting to look at graphically - sometimes your city will look stunning in 3d, 
 and sometimes you get an angle that makes it look like a bunch of blurry textured boxes. Some performance 
 problems did arise even on my 3700+ w/ 7800GT video card, 2gb of Ram.
  
  In Conclusion... city life is good but not great. it brings a couple of new ideas to the table 
 but leaves you wanting more control over more elements. It might be something to pick up from the 
 bargain shelf while you wait for the next simcity.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Yoyito06
Rating: 7
Date: Jun 11, 2006 9:41 am PT
Review:  A pesar de tener buena grfica, y escenarios nuevos, para mi es mejor el Sim City 4 ya que en este 
 juego no se pueden modificar los impuestos a los habitantes y ganas dinero de forma muy rpida, 
 entre otras cosas. Tambien, a pesar de que parezca una ventaja, para mi es una deficiencia, ya 
 que no te muestra de forma clara las necesidades de los habitantes, sino que muestra un cuadrito 
 en los hogares pero muestra solo la necesidad mas urgnte de estos.
  
  Lo bueno que tiene es, como ya lo mensionaba anteriormente, la grfica del juego, la opcin de 
 visualizacin a modo de habitante en la cual puedes ver tu ciudad de la forma en que la ven tus 
 ciudadanos.
  
  A pesar de eso "bueno" que en realidad no encuentro tan necesario, no supera en calidad de juego 
 al SimCity 4 ya que, en ste ltimo, puedes ejercer el cargo de alcalde como corresponde, y digo 
 como corresponde porque puedes manipular absolutamente todo, incluyendo dinero. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JasmoVT
Rating: 5.8
Date: Jun 11, 2006 6:39 am PT
Review:  While I found the game an interesting twist on the famours sim it is emulating I also found the 
 lack of an in game random map generator very limiting in replayability. The addition of social 
 classed and the requirement to balance needs while avoiding conflic puts a new twist in the game 
 that was enjoyable. I found the relatively limited number of actual starting maps and lack of an 
 in game terrain randomizer very disappointing. While there is an editor it comes with no explantion, 
 a big warning that it is neither supported nor represented that it works and this old man could 
 not figure out how to change terrain in it. I gave it a low rating on value because of this and 
 also found the music repetitive and irratating. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gnappo
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 11, 2006 3:02 am PT
Review:  Spectacular graphics and level of detail. You see what people are doing! Night vision is incredible 
 and also water effects. Much better than SimCity!
  The start is a little difficult, you must understand how to make money and don't go negative. With 
 a bit of practice you can earn much money and create enormous buildings. You must take care of 
 people needs and people ranks. You can see for each building what people are doing inside them, 
 rich people swim in the pool, poor people play basket... You start from poor people and must attract 
 the rich people, when reach people arrive you start to earn much more money and the most beautiful 
 buildings arrive. Great game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fable_fodder
Rating: 7
Date: Jun 6, 2006 4:27 pm PT
Review:  This game was pretty cool. You get to build ur own city with characteristics that fit the needs 
 of all the different types of people in the city. Shops, buildings, apartments. This game is a 
 bit like sim city although I found it better. Then again, I never really thought Sim City was a 
 good game anyways... Anyways, there were a few downsides to this game tho. One being the graphics. 
 The graphics in this game were horrendous and the overall play ability was OK. Not that good but 
 ok. I would recommend not buying this game considering it gets old fast and you probably won't 
 play it much. This game is pretty hard when you areb ttrying to learn how to work everything in 
 the begining but you get used to it after a while. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shanelissow
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 4, 2006 10:23 pm PT
Review:  City Life is everything Sim City 4 was not. The graphics as a total package are amazing. It offers 
 realistic 3-D characters not 2 dimensinal paper cut outs. The game is up to date using 3-D rendering 
 and harnesses the power of modern graphics card technology. So if you have a good graphics card, 
 the program has zero hitching unlike Sim 4 which utilized 2-D technology leaving behind anybody 
 with a modern graphics card. So when you zoom in and out there is zero load time and everything 
 renders flawlessly. The other thing that I find impressive that Sim 4 never did for me, is City 
 Life gives you a true sense of scale. Big buildings look and feel big, little things such as cars 
 and people are dwarfed by a sprawling metropolis. 
  
  Im writing this review because its obvious to me that the negative reviews on this page are influenced 
 by Sim Citys enduring franchise and peoples loyalties to that franchise. Taken at face value however, 
 this game hands down blows away Sim City 4 and Rush Hour. And dont let the rumors fool you people, 
 Sim City 5 is years away yet. Maxis/EA havent even considered developing the 5th one yet. This 
 IS the game to wet your apetite. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JohnnyC25
Rating: 4.6
Date: Jun 4, 2006 10:28 am PT
Review:  After playing simcity 4 for awhile now, this is a nice change of pace. However when you play City 
 Life for about 20 minutes in you'll realize how limited you are in your building abilities, compared 
 to SC4 which has a ton of possibilties for city building and management. Almost all buildings look 
 the same and you can't really build a big city like in Simcity 4. You can make a city LOOK like 
 a big city with tons of skycrapers (which is not very realistic to begin with, no city has towers 
 all over the place) but nothing like the realism of a big city look and feel like SC4 which will 
 take you months of building.
  However, you gotta love the camera modes in city life! Zoom in, zoom out, rotate, walk around the 
 city in like 1st person mode, I wish that was in Simcity 4!! Oh wait, this might be a great preview 
 of Simcity 5! I can't wait!! Imaging a game like simcity 4 in city life interface?! That's what 
 we all dream about! All with all, this is once again a typicial Monte Cristo game, almost but not 
 quite there yet! Oh well, at least I played a nice Simcity 5 preview demo... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ADG_
Rating: 4.8
Date: Jun 4, 2006 5:52 am PT
Review:  When playing this game, it's hard not to compare it to SimCity 4, so here it goes:
  
  The only features that are better in City Life, than in SimCity 4 are:
  - Buildings can be built 
 on angled roads (though this has it's downside too, as if you don't plan ahead, this is going to 
 look very ugly)
  - The 3D view can give you a nice view of the city... unfortunatly the camera is not that free, 
 you can't see the city from any view you wish
  - You don't have to worry about the layout of sewers and power-grid (all buildings gets power automaticly, 
 and you don't have to worry about water)
  - The game runs better than SimCity 4
  
  Unfortunatly there's a lots of downsides to this game:
  - The graphics are 'bad'... Buildings 
 in SimCity 4 looks much better (of course this being 2D'ish, they can have much more detailed buildings, 
 than if it was 3D)
  - No editor... you've only got premade maps to play, and none of those maps interested me at all
 
  - The culture clash is no fun. At the beginning you have to make two towns close to each other 
 (one for blue collars and one for the fringes) , but not too close as then they will complain (and 
 start fighting in the streets)
  - There's not many different building graphics. When 'planting' resident or work-buildings, you'll 
 only see 1-2 different kinds of buildings per 'culture'. Most buildings only has one "graphics 
 set" though... This gets really annoying to look at, as everything is the same
  - You can't zone land, you just plop down some buildings
  - How you make money is a joke. The 
 quickest way to money is making lots of windmills (excess power will automaticly be sold, giving 
 you lots of cash) . And each work-building has a set expense (which the city has to pay for? Why?) 
 and a set income per worker and a limited number of workers (usually the expense is $500 and each 
 worker 'makes' $100, so having 6 workers gives you $100, but 4 workers will cost you $100)
  - The maps are smaller than in SimCity 4
  - Each culture has it's own color (buildings and street 
 color) , this really makes it feel artificial. When playing a city-builder game, I prefer to get 
 the feeling that it's a real city
  - I miss all the graphs from SimCity games
  - And then probably a lot of downsides I've forgotten about
  
  But the worst fault this game 
 has is that it is Starforce protected... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: maddemios
Rating: 5.5
Date: Jun 2, 2006 6:02 pm PT
Review:  Rather average game, which I might add that to me this is much like a SimCity 4 clone. Generally, 
 I really dislike the fact that there is no budget control. Thus no control on taxes or any features 
 on which are normally controlled.
  
  There are some scenarios, not many, and are used to obtain more cities. The replay value in the 
 scenarios is rather low, because once you unlock the cities I do not think you will play them again. 
 Graphics are ok, however compared to todays standard they are lacking. Compared to the graphics 
 of SimCity 4, you can zoom in further and watch the citizens go about their lives. Sandbox mode, 
 or more rather Free mode as they call it adds to the value. However after a while the Free mode 
 can become rather boring.
  
  Learning Curve is not that high, if you have experienced anything related to SimCity. I would suggest 
 checking out SimCity 4 before buying this game.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Advocate
Rating: 8
Date: May 30, 2006 11:32 am PT
Review:  Sim city this is game is not. What how dare you compare this game to SimCity! Well for lack of 
 any other city building games, this games can only be compared to SimCity. Duhh
  
  City Life does do many right, but many more things are just average while some are rather frustrating. 
 The game is fun but no where near as fun as SimCity 3 or SimCity 4 Rush Hour.
  
  It has some inovative concepts that if ever adopted by SimCity, would play out to be some good 
 additions, however this game itself is just an average run of the mill good for a sunday or two 
 in the deed of winter playing.
  
  If you haven't bought it yet, check out the demo, if you like the demo buy the game. Or wait to 
 buy the game until its in the bargin bins. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: unkindly
Rating: 6
Date: May 21, 2006 6:41 am PT
Review:  Its just an average game, it does have a number of good features, some parts of the game can be 
 disappointing. 
  
  One of the major pitfalls of the game is the fact that you can not control the budget, higher lower 
 taxs, adjust the budget so you can make a profit. There is no real detail into the budget, just 
 a few figures but none of these can be adjusted, they can only be looked at.
  
  The good features that there are a fair few scenarios to play, the graphics are ok, the level of 
 difficultness is ok. An interesting feature to this game is the citizen types. There are 6 different 
 types of citizens and each has to be carefully managed, the game seems to based around the citizen 
 types.
  
  I would recommend SimCity 4, because it is a lot better then city life
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: webmessia
Rating: 7
Date: May 14, 2006 2:31 pm PT
Review:  Just a copy of Sim City 4 except with better graphics and more concepts. I like this idea but it 
 is somewhat with the whole social side of things, just extending what you get in Sim City. Like 
 riots in Sim City is extended to more meaningful riots. But New parts like social classes are dissapointing 
 and not as good as they say they are. This does allow you to create more impressive cities and 
 zoom in on what people are doing more thanin Sim City. But new things with you cant do this because 
 you need this makes City Life a game that is challenging to enjoy. But the added complexity in 
 the 3d makes it easy to look around, much better than in Sim City. Unlike in Sim City, City Life 
 has scenarios which when completed unlock Cities. For those of you who like this challenge, City 
 Life is for you. For those who dont Sim City 4 is for you. 
  This is another review by Webmessia. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
