-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: City of Villains
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/rpg/cityofvillains/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 It's about time someone let us play the bad guy.
 Missions can be fun to solo, but the game shines when you're a member of a team.
 Customizing your headquarters keeps your supergroup motivated.
 Character creation tool is just as fun to tinker with as before.
 PvP can be fun.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Missions are very straightforward.
 No real sense of malice to anything you do.
 PvP can be too straightforward.
 When things bunch up, the system bogs down.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Nov 16, 2005
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8.2
Critic Score: 8.3, 44 Review (s)
User Score: 8.6, 1,996 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: NCsoft
Developer: Cryptic Studios
Genre: Modern Online...
Date:     Oct 31, 2005 &raquo;  
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
City of Villains doesn't always make you feel evil, but it's an engrossing bookend to City of Heroes' 
 attractive MMO concept. 

  You've tired of the pitiful battle cries of those self-righteous, meddling heroes of Paragon City. 
 You'd like nothing better than to strap on your darkest cowl, tattoo your face with arcane symbols, 
 and begin wreaking havoc on any mewling citizen that dares step in your path. Welcome, fellow fiend, 
 to City of Villains, the sequel of sorts to NCSoft's City of Heroes, which was released in 2004. 
 Considered as a stand-alone game, City of Villains delivers only a marginally different experience 
 than its predecessor, though it includes, most notably, player-versus-player combat. When played 
 as a companion game to the original, City of Villains closes an obvious open loop in NCSoft's MMO 
 world of heroic do-gooders and dastardly deeds, and remains a very fun game in the process.  

 
          Nothing says 'villain' more than arched eyebrows and vaguely effeminate insults.     

 
  Ever since City of Heroes shipped, players in the COH world have been asking, "What about the 
 bad guys?" City of Villains addresses that nefarious need through an extended and engrossing character 
 creation tool, an entirely new realm of environments to explore and practice your villainy in, 
 and gameplay mechanics and mission structures that will feel very familiar to City of Heroes veterans -- sometimes 
 a bit too familiar. Incidentally, it's worth noting that City of Villains is a stand-alone game. 
 If you get it but you don't already own City of Heroes, you'll have no problem getting into it, 
 but will need to pay the same subscription fee you would if you were playing City of Heroes (after 
 the first 30 days) . If you do own City of Heroes and pick up City of Villains, all you pay for 
 is the retail game, as your current subscription fee covers City of Villains as well.  

  One of the best features of City of Heroes, the character creation tool, is enhanced in City of 
 Villains and offers the willing tinkerer more power than ever before to bring out his or her mad 
 scientist or hulking blood-craving demon. New outfits and accessories galore, even some new body 
 parts and head types, find their way into COV's character creation tool, and you even have the 
 ability to focus on specific areas of your supervillain's physical makeup, such as shoulders, chest, 
 legs, and so on -- so you can really drill down and get detailed.  

  Of course, all of this is just window dressing for your created character; the core decision you'll 
 need to make -- the one that will define your villain's path in the game -- will be its archetype. 
 City of Villains offers five archetypes to choose from, some of which are analogues to those found 
 in City of Heroes. The brute, for example, prefers to do his or her hero-bashing up close and personal -- and, 
 as a result, plays similarly to the tanker archetype in COH. Other character types found in the 
 game are the offensively minded stalker; the corrupter, who deals primarily in ranged attacks; 
 the will-bending dominator; and the mastermind, who is able to summon a variety of henchmen to 
 do his or her bidding.  

  While there are comparisons between archetypes found in COH and those in Villains, there are some 
 key differences that keep things fresh. Dominators, for example, have a dominator bar that, when 
 filled, lets the character activate a special domination power that boosts their offensive powers, 
 while brutes have a similar bar that measures their fury level. Of the new archetypes, the mastermind 
 class seems especially inspired. With a number of different henchmen types to summon -- from ninjas 
 to robots, zombies to soldiers -- the mastermind can effectively become a one-man army, capable of 
 either soloing effectively, or nearly doubling the size of an already well-stocked team of villains. 

          Well-designed costumes will stop you dead in your tracks.     

  If you've spent any time saving damsels in distress or mowing down lackeys in City of Heroes, you'll 
 be surprised at how quickly you re-adapt to the missions in City of Villains. This is partially 
 due to an accommodating and user-friendly interface that is easy to learn and as flexible as you 
 need it to be. Windows can be moved and resized at your leisure, and macros and hotkeys are easy 
 to set up. Familiarity also comes because, to a large degree, the missions in City of Villains 
 feel very similar to those in City of Heroes. But there are new ways to pick up missions -- through 
 a number of different types of contacts, including various brokers (who set up special missions 
 for you) , a disreputable car radio, and the Rogue Island Protector, a newspaper from which you'll 
 be able to pick various missions.     

  For the most part, the mission types revolve around one or more of a select number of goals: Find 
 an object, destroy an object, find a person, or destroy everything in sight. In fact, with just 
 a switch of the verb, many of the exact same mission types found in City of Heroes have been appropriately 
 "villainized" here. Whereas in City of Heroes, for example, you might "save" a scientist from the 
 clutches of some ne'er-do-wells, in City of Villains, you "kidnap" your target from under the nose 
 of the heroes on hand to protect him or her. Wiping out an instance full of heroic Longbow agents 
 infesting a warehouse isn't much different from cleansing a warehouse full of mystical Tsoo warriors, 
 after all. Except for certain missions -- such as when you break into a bank vault and steal the 
 cash hidden inside -- you never feel that "evil" when you're running around playing the game. And 
 while there are some new instance environments to battle your way through (a high-tech Arachnos 
 base and shipping freighter are two standouts) , you'll find yourself ripping your way through many 
 of the same sewers, office buildings, and cave environments that you were diligently looking to 
 preserve back in your heroic days.  

          Your supervillain HQ can be customized with a wide variety of room styles and equipment. 
     

  As in City of Heroes, combat in Villains is interactive enough to keep things interesting, but 
 not to the point of becoming too stressful. It's easy to preload attacks as they recharge, which 
 gives you ample opportunity to keep an eye on your health meter or configure your enhancement and 
 inspiration buffs. The mastermind class is a slight exception; you'll not only be responsible for 
 your character's health, but the health of your minions as well. On the flip side, the mastermind 
 lets you effectively reach mission objectives quickly, while your underlings dole out the punishment 
 in your stead.  

  The straightforward nature of the basic mission types still makes for simple beat-'em-up fun, while 
 strike-force missions -- longer, more involved tasks that usually culminate in a cataclysmic showdown 
 against a powerful superhero -- are time-consuming and appropriately epic in nature. And, just as 
 before, City of Villains truly shines when played in a group -- there are simply few better experiences 
 in the MMO genre than teaming up with a collection of like-minded villains and tackling missions. 
 Each archetype's abilities are powerful in their own right, and, when used in a team context, are 
 designed to complement one another to great effect. Furthermore, if you're finding the single-player 
 missions to be too tough (or too easy, for that matter) you can dial the difficulty up or down 
 by visiting select contacts and changing your reputation to reflect your desired level of challenge. 

          With this many people onscreen at once, PvP can turn into a system hog.     

  Still, the main reason to run these single-player missions and level up your character -- the reason 
 to buy this game in the first place, for most people -- is the promise of taking on those meddling 
 heroes through the COV's long-awaited PvP combat. Multiplayer combat takes place in a number of 
 specially designed zones strewn across the Rogue Isles (as the new lands of COV are known) . These 
 zones are separated by level requirements (you can't reach the game's first PvP zone, Bloody Bay, 
 until hitting level 15, for example) , but you'll frequently see characters of a much higher level 
 battling along with lowbies in a fight to the finish (or at least until you can revive yourself 
 again) .  

  Luckily, dying in PvP doesn't come with the same, sometimes hefty experience-debt penalty that 
 is found in the main game -- a good thing too, because you can expect to die frequently in PvP scrums, 
 which can often involve many dozens of characters, often resulting in you wondering just what is 
 going on at any given moment. In our experience, there was also a distinct PvP advantage for players 
 whose alter ego had the ability to fly out of hairy situations -- so, design your combatant accordingly. 
 Just as in the PvE areas, however, the best PvP combat groups are those who are varied in powers 
 and willing to work together towards a common aim.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (137 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: vaskaville
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 24, 2009 1:40 pm PT
Review:  The Good: Finally an MMO that let's you be the Villain, clear graphics, robbing banks, character 
 creator.
  
  The Bad: Rather bland missions except robbing banks (Which is really fun) , you have to wait eternity 
 to use your powers again and by then your half dead, slow health regeneration, enemies, bad setting.
 
  
  When I first heard the name City of Villains I imagined robbing banks in a City well in City of 
 Villains you rob banks alright but in a run down suburban crime ran city known as Mercy Isle. When 
 I mean bad setting I'm talking about Mercy Isle, the setting Mercy Isle doesn't make any sense 
 because the whole island looks like it's been bombed because there are buildings that have been 
 blown to the ground or half way, there is wreckage everywhere, is doesn't make any sense. City 
 of Villains is not all bad so to speak, robbing banks in City of Villains is a pleasure because 
 it's so realistic. The character creator has a wide verity of props, colors, costumes to choose 
 from that of course you can alter pretty much everything to make a unique criminal mastermind to 
 haunt the streets. For an MMO City of Villains graphics is the best I have ever scene, there very 
 clear and easy for your eyes for hours of enjoyment. I would use the two week trail version to 
 make up your mind weather to subscribe or not. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: XxKing_Leonidas
Rating: 6.5
Date: Oct 31, 2008 11:32 am PT
Review:  City of Villains is a MMORPG based off City of Heroes. When you start the game you get to create 
 your own villain and jump into the trash cities of the Rouge Isles. Throughout the isles you face 
 other thugs, gangs and even some monsters. Also you can rob banks assassinate some people and kill 
 some heroes. Yeah I know great idea it's just not that fun after a while.
  
  Pros-
  -Creating your character is really, really fun (probably more fun then the actual game)
  -Different 
 types of environments with different types of quests
  -Teaming can be really fun
  -Super Groups and Bases are cool
  
  Cons-
  -Graphics are pretty bad
  -Not much a variety 
 of enemies
  -Not much a variety of items you can use to affect your character
  -Music not that great
  -Very, Very, Very repetitive
  -A small array of attacks per class
  -A 
 small amount of classes
  -Boring Missions
  
  Overall City of Villains is a really good idea it's just far to repetitive with not enough enemies, 
 not enough attacks and just not enough variety. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Xanzibar_Joe
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 20, 2008 8:20 am PT
Review:  COV isn't simply a normal expansion for COH, it brings with it an entirely different side to the 
 whole game. It gives the player the chance to create a fitting Villain from an absolutely amazing 
 line up of customization options ( the best i've seen in any MMORPG) and bring him to an entirely 
 new area: the rogue isles. It also opens up several new powers and archetypes: Masterminds are 
 the most interesting of types as they come with the ability to conjure minions and form their own 
 personal army of sort, and the new Arachnos superarchtypes. It also brings with it PVP combat in 
 several new areas. New Mayhem missions have also been added, where villains must go and rob banks 
 over in paragon city, which is quite fun and is different everytime. However, other missions do 
 seem a tad repetitive at times and it is kind of hard to find a team at times, but this is compensated 
 for by the immense quality of the game. Definitely worth a try. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Almorac
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 20, 2008 3:16 am PT
Review:  Within any varying degree anyone who gets jollies from seeing their favorite comic book hero save 
 the day (or get humiliatingly beaten only to rise up and slap the offending villain around a few 
 times through the power of sheer will, which never ceases to amaze me how powerful it is at that) 
 has heard of the increasingly popular City of Heroes game. Just as well, anyone who has any care 
 for Massively Multiplayer Online games (or any other form of MMOs that are good. Here's to you 
 Planetside, and EVE Online) have probably heard of City of Heroes.
  
  Even though this is technically a City of Villains review I find that I have to mention City of 
 Heroes because of the fact that they're basically the same exact game with the exception that in 
 City of Heroes you run around saving old ladies from scruffy looking men that you would probably 
 be calling, "nerf herders," if this was Starwars Galaxies. However, in City of Villains you dress 
 up as a scruffy villain that would probably be referred to as a, "Sith Lord," in Starwars Galaxies 
 and proceed to terrorize other villains, genetically manipulated creatures, ghosts, weak policemen, 
 other villains, gangsters, other villains, Longbow (superheroes) , the rare superhero, villains, 
 bank vaults, sentry turrets, mailboxes, villains, Longbow, lizard people, boxes, cars, SWAT Vans, 
 other villains, and the urge to get down with your bad self while people play generic techno music 
 in the middle of a lightly guarded fortress.
  
  City of Villains gives you the ability to do all the things you'd expect to do playing a villain, 
 to a degree. You attempt to kill superheroes while robbing banks and blowing up various amounts 
 of property between killing said superhero and robbing said bank (which generally includes five 
 minutes of hopelessly blasting at an extremely thick bank vault with extremely generic superpowers) 
 and that's basically it... From the stand point of a normal video game City of Villains does have 
 a lot to offer, as you can create your own villain from scratch giving him a pretty fair amount 
 of different superpowers which covers most of the elements (such as fire and lightning) and make 
 him look like whatever you want with an immense variety of different skulls that all look the same 
 and endless amounts of spikes and zombie faces. Even though I don't make it sound very exciting 
 City of Villains like its predecessor City of Heroes has a vast amount of character customization 
 which allows you to create your own villain to your own imagination's whim without it looking exactly 
 like someone else's (unless of course you use a pre-set or full set of a certain armor. Even if 
 such was true you'd be a different color, at least) and thus giving you an extreme sense of satisfaction 
 despite the fact that everyone around you has the same exact powers you do. I'm being honest, your 
 character customization and ability to be nothing like the people around you ends with your look 
 and your character's background story as to why his angsty life turned for the worst through an 
 experiment gone wrong or a backhand from society when you reach the page where you pick your character's 
 powers. The powers aren't bad, and in fact I don't see any reason why any person would dislike 
 the powers that you can choose from and level up to get more and more powerful and various besides 
 the sole fact that twenty-five percent of the players around you of your class will essentially 
 have the same primary or secondary powers as you do. The one down-side to this game is that there's 
 only approximately seven primary and seven secondary powersets to choose from, each containing 
 roughly fifteen different powers. Beyond that once you reach a certain level (most likely your 
 second day of playing this game, maybe the third if you don't sink a lot of time) you get the option 
 to choose your character's tertiary powerset, which is generally either a travel power, a healing 
 power, or a leadership power. I'd say seventy-five percent of the players in this game either are 
 flying, teleporting, or have superspeed.
  
  For your convenience reader (who for some reason is still reading...) that last paragraph was essentially 
 all based around the character creation system.
  
  Gameplay is a pretty straightforward affair (wow, that might be the most overused statement in 
 review history) as you'll scrounge the cities (which are on islands... So you know) clicking on 
 scruffy looking gangsters, evil lizards, corrupt police officers, and other individuals of villainous 
 intent and getting close enough so you can press a series of numbers to activate the corresponding 
 power to vanquish said villainous foe. There are two things wrong with that last sentence with 
 the first being that I could never figure out why Superheroes in City of Heroes fight gangsters, 
 evil creatures, and villainous people; while villains vanquish all of the above. Apparently, fighting 
 villainy is just as prominent in the islands under the control of the evil mastermind Arachnos 
 as it is in the good and wonderful Paragon City (which is just as confusing as there must be several 
 million heroes cracking down on crime in the city...) . Unfortunately, the game itself is a bit 
 repetative as running around and targeting individuals who went awry in their normal lives and 
 decided to become targets for the angst of a player base in denial of the fact that they've been 
 pressing the same five+ numbers on their keypad for the past week (up to probably five years) will 
 be graciously pressing several different number keys on their keypad to enact the same pretty moves 
 that you've been using since day one to vanquish the same foes that you've been vanquishing since, 
 well, day one. The fact that action in this game is limited to the amount of numbers on your keyboard 
 and your willingness to press them, doesn't distract from the fact that all repetativeness aside 
 this game is a wonderful addition to your list of money-sucking blackholes that you'll look back 
 on years from now and wish you had never looked at, while you cry and listen to the world's smallest 
 violin playing in the back of your skull.
  
  Missions themselves are of a strange variety as the most fun you'll ever have playing City of Villains 
 will be centered around three different events. First off, the game will lovingly acquaint you 
 with Paragon's wonderful line of banks which generally involves you running half a mile across 
 the island to a submarine which is mysteriously parked on the edge of said island to transport 
 you to a mission area in Paragon City (that is to say this is technically a dungeon in which you 
 and anyone you bring with you in your villain party are the only players in) to destroy pretty 
 much every object that isn't a citizen (villains don't terrorize citizens? Ok, you can fire at 
 them and throw balls of lightning and fire at them, but you don't achieve anything other than the 
 satisfaction of watching them scream and run away. They don't even drop their money! Much less 
 food...) , street light, or building; do away with endless amounts of police officers and Longbow 
 (once again, wannabe superheroes) ; and then eventually rob a bank which triggers the arrival of 
 an actual superhero which generally any single person can get rid of on their own (with a good 
 amount of effort, as generally the superhero is powerful enough to put up a decent fight) . The 
 second part is the Arena which stands on the second island that you will visit in this game (assuming 
 you follow the guidelines and go from island to island as you level up and complete quests) that 
 allows you to fight other villains (once again... Villains fighting villains... I know there's 
 that whole bragging rights and reigning supreme thing but when you have a city FULL of powerful 
 superheroes should you really focus on eachother?) for brownie points, as I'm not aware of any 
 real rewards except titles (as you progress in the game you can gain 'achievements' of a sort. 
 At your will you can click on the achievement and have the name of the ordeal in question added 
 under your character's name as a second title.) . The third is the ability to raid superhero bases 
 for the sake of annihilating good guys (which you can't hate, because obviously supervillainy is 
 a lot better) and gaining powerful loot that gives you and any other villains in your 'Villain 
 Guild' (that's not their actual name, but they might as well be Villainous Guilds... They're Guilds 
 of Calamitous Intent, deal with it) special passive bonuses and the necessity to be raided in turn 
 by superheroes.
  
  Although I may sound as if I'm putting this game down (which I am... But don't let that fool you!) 
 it actually is a fantastic game. City of Villains thus far is the only game that lets you create 
 your own supervillain from scratch in your own design with some very decent lines of power that, 
 at the least, include electricity and fireballs. As well as you are allowed to create a archetype 
 (fancy term for class...) called the Mastermind who's main ability is calling forth ninjas, mercenaries, 
 the undead, and robots; all of increasing power and effectiveness. Just as well, there are rewards 
 for any player that reaches level 50 as you unlock an additional two archetypes which I have never 
 experienced, but have been told can be somewhat enjoyable.
  
  Would I recommend this game to you? Yes. However, this game is only for people who want to put 
 the time and money in to it. If you can spare endless amounts of hard-earned cash (through either 
 begging your parents with fake tears or getting yelled at / yelling at people, the latter being 
 less hard-earned and more well-enjoyed) and look past some of the repetative aspects of the game 
 you'll find a wonderful universe full of millions of other supervillains (and I do mean FULL, as 
 there is a generous amount of other players to spend time with) . The two games themselves pack 
 an interesting story and history behind them as well as some fun times. Plus, at the very least, 
 City of Villains (like City of Heroes before it) continues vast amounts of partying and dancing 
 to generic techno music with several other players. Perhaps the best selling factor of these two 
 games is the fact that nothing brings together supervillains like a generous list of techno songs 
 that all sound almost the same. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BadMuppet
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 13, 2008 4:05 pm PT
Review:  This was my first p2p (or pay to play for all you literates out there; you know who you are!) MMO. 
 It was a great experience, as it's just like any other out there so you're all set when you want 
 to move on to another one.
  
  This game has a great story, as you will soon find out when you're not scrolling down the dialogue 
 just to get the grindy-goodness of exp. Each quest you partake in will give you a paragraph or 
 two (sometimes more) of nice dialogue that can be witty and interesting, as long as some very nice 
 plot twists. The missions themselves are grindy, as there are about 5 types:
  
  -Kidnap (rescue for Heroes)
  -Kill
  -Steal
  -Rob bank
  -Mayhem (destroy things)
  
  
 Although it's grindy, the combat is very entertaining. 
  
  There's many different "costumes", but each is customizable. So you can use lots of different costume 
 pieces to mix & match. The possibilities are endless... well, almost.
  
  Then there's the classes. Look on the official site for more info on these. Even after you max 
 out your character to level 50 -- which I did around 4 or 5 times -- you get access to the "epic archetypes", 
 which will add another 100 hours to your play time. I haven't tried them out myself, as I unsubscribed 
 right around the time they came out. Seeing as how the developers got bought out by NCsoft and 
 have been giving more time to quality content, I imagine that they will be well worth your $15 
 a month.
  
  Like my title says (The good, the bad, and the thinly-veiled anti-heroes.) , you will be somewhat 
 disappointed if you go in thinking you're a classic villain. You're more of a henchmen to a villain 
 who always does what he's told, and despite all the rich content the devs have been pumping out, 
 they always give you the same old "heroes and villains have to work together to relinquish this 
 threat!", so the whole lesser evil thing is dry and boring.
  
  Oh yes, I put the difficulty as hard for one reason: it is. I'm not complaining, though, as it's 
 a good kind of hard: you need to manage your hp, your endurance (what you need to use abilities) , 
 your damage per second, and everything else. It may seem complicated when you first start, but 
 once you get the hang of it, you will be working those spreadsheets like you're writing a novel.
 
  
  All in all, a good (great?) game. I'd recommend this to anyone. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zxssded
Rating: 8.5
Date: May 6, 2008 5:19 am PT
Review:  Well i loved this MMO but some people didnt
  
  Good: Character custimazion is great fun. a lot of options, many costumes, always new things coming 
 out, and its free! story is very interesting and many twists is always great. leveling is quite 
 easy and fast but if your not into that its still fun with PvP. Pvp is great. balanced powers, 
 heros and VILLIANS!!!! alike. they all feel different but all somehow are balanced. great teaming 
 up with other people. great missions. all character archtypes are fun to play atleast once. all 
 archtypes keep you on your toes. Grahpics
  
  Bad: some Archtypes liek the mastermind could be chalenging for the new people. take a while to 
 get used to unless you play a lot of MMO's. some might think leveling is too easy. going through 
 level 20 - 25 is pretty hard. its the time where you have to buy stuff and you dont have many useful 
 powers.
  
  Conclusion: well i think its a great game. sounds cheesy i know but its great. one of the best 
 MMO's. many new issues that come out are great. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: King_Wii
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 21, 2008 1:25 am PT
Review:  I've had CoV since launch I just decided I'd give my two cents to help people out who are on the 
 fence about CoX in general.
  
  First off let me say that in a world fild with bad mmos its hard to tell at first glance where 
 the good MMOs are, I will start this out by saying CoX (CoX= Both City of Villians and Heroes) 
 is a beacon of glory within an ever tainted market.
  
  The game is a bit of a grind, not going to lie about that but it sets itself apart from its compotition. 
 Sure WoW has flying mounts but CoX has had flying since launch... in all zones mind you.
  
  Sure WoW and Dark Age of Camalot have RvR... so does CoX, and in a very player friendly way. RvR 
 in CoX is built around brackets. There are 20s, 30s, 40s, and 50s zones... the best part is if 
 your 50 you can still go into the 20 zone. They have a neat system that lowers your level making 
 you equal to everyone on the feild... whats that only 10 sure jump into the fray because you'll 
 be lev 20 when you enter (aside from the fact that your skills will be undeveloped compared to 
 a 20+ toon, but hay its unlimited pvp!!)
  
  RvR in CoX also has an interesting twist, within pvp zones you can do missions to attempt to weaken 
 your foes this isn't always necessary to win but it helps when your out numbered.
  
  Now moving onto the core gameplay you have to realise that sure you've got a sprawling city but 
 most of the action happens inside the buildings, sewers, caves and other random locations. That 
 is you'll spend most of your hunting/questing time in instanced mission areas which are all connected 
 to massive open presistant zones. The graphics to this day hold up very well as Cryptic (and now 
 NCsoft) has constantly added free updates to the game.
  
  That brings up my next major topic, free updates. CoV is the ONLY expantion to this game but don't 
 get me wrong the game has been expanded a ton, and for free! Not only have they added 2 major classes 
 and numerous zones and raids but 2 more classes are on the way (the added classes are gained by 
 maxing out a villian or hero its like SWG jedi back in the day but not over powered but more a 
 privlage) . It seems every 3-5 months you can expect some kind of major update to the game. Aside 
 from classes the devs have added many power sets (this is like a flavor of a class) to the game 
 sinc launch.
  
  Continuing on customization is key in CoX. You've got it all, you can be a magic weilding super 
 ninja, to a robotic death machine that can cloak itself and slice people up before the know whats 
 happening. The point is if you can imagine it CoX for the most part can built it. I've actualy 
 met a few people who have gone on to create minor comic books or storylines revolving around their 
 toons, thats how much people get into it. My biggest issue from time to time is having to much 
 customization, often I get lost in a sea of possability.
  
  CoX also features a great reward system, you'll gain titles, temp powers, crafting objects, costume 
 parts such as wings, jetpacks, and much more. As you level up you'll gain acces to auras and other 
 neat cosmetic things that'll make your hero or villain truely stand out. The game also features 
 a robust and highly developed veteran reward system which is NCsoft's way of saying "thanks", some 
 of the high end rewards are realy nice wepons or powers (wepons are always a form of power) .
  
  To end it off if your sick of the many MMOs that have you activate an auto attack and click 
 skills as you go then try out CoX. Its got a real time skill system, no auto attack at all so you 
 have to be actualy ingaged and playing during combat. The game is one of the most face past MMOs 
 I've played (aside from Auto Assualt... RIP) and if your a villain playing a MM (Mastermind) will 
 have you commanding a small army of critters/bots/thugs/ninjas/or zombies 
::::::

::::::
UserName: YellowJello
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 18, 2008 6:01 pm PT
Review:  City of Villains is an expansion pack released about a year and a half or so after the release 
 of City of Heroes. It is basically the same game with a new color scheme and new cities. It starts 
 you off in a massive riot inside of a jail where. You are sent out on basically the same missions 
 that you are sent on in City of Heroes but instead of gang members and thugs, there are inmates 
 and guards. When you do all the missions in the tutorial zone you are sent to Fort Darwin on Mercy 
 Island. This area is the City of Villains equivalent to Atlas Park in City of Heroes. The main 
 difference is that instead of a clean cut city filled with innocent people getting robbed by gang 
 members and thugs, Mercy Island is covered in debris, it's always dark, and a lot of the buildings 
 have caved in. In my opinion, this is much more fun to play in since I just think it looks much 
 cooler than an average city.
  
  The graphics in City of Villains are exactly the same as they are in City of Heroes, so there is 
 not much more to say about them that wasn't already said in the City of Heroes review. The only 
 real difference in graphics is the darkness and evil of everything has just been enhanced to the 
 point that Mercy Island looks like it's just one floor above Hell itself. There are no civilians, 
 there are gang members, diseased people with guns, policemen, and homeless people (who you cannot 
 attack) .
  
  The gameplay is also pretty much the same as City of Heroes, but with a much darker and more sinister 
 layer on top of it. The missions are basically the same objectives as the ones in Atlas Park but 
 with different surroundings and different bad guys. These subtle changes, however, did make a difference 
 for me and I ended up liking Villains much more than Heroes.
  
  The game's creativity, once again, mostly comes out of the character creation. The super powers 
 and costumes are all pretty much the same, but it is still one of the best parts of the game. Other 
 than that there is nothing to say that hasn't already been said.
  
  City of Villains was a better attempt at what they were going for in Heroes and the teamplay aspect 
 of the game still plays a huge role. It's still the same game at heart but for me the subtle differences 
 were enough to make me like it more than Heroes. Once again, I do not recommend this game to people 
 who like to do everything by themselves or to avid World of Warcraft players. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Zakum2
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 1, 2008 8:23 pm PT
Review:  This is basically City of Heroes, only that the game is refitted with Villians in the title. But 
 that's not a bad thing! With opposing hero players on the opposite game alive and playing, PvP 
 is finally introduced into both CoH and CoV. There is a whole new area to start in, called the 
 Rouge Islands. But, that means missions are straight forward. 
  
  
  Now, the debateable part. Is this game a standalone game, or an expansion set to CoH? The game 
 can install and run alone on a PC, but there are many expansion feels to it (login screen only 
 changing after selecting a Villian, City of Heroes still the loading screen after launching the 
 client, when CoH is installed before this or after it, you have the option to make both characters) . 
 This game being an expansion is not bad, but being a standalone game is better.
  
  
  Overall, this is a very good game if you have City of Heroes installed on your PC, but alone... 
 ah, **** it. This is great with City of Heroes installed, and alone. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tyler2tyler
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 1, 2008 2:53 pm PT
Review:  Alright, this game is just amazing! It's one of a kind, definitely worth buying. here is some reasons 
 why I enjoyed this game: The graphics are great, though I had problems with the lighting (My fault, 
 Vista sucks lol) , The customization options are mind blowing, loads of choices! The monsters are 
 awesome, you can start your own Super Group with it's own base! Hours and hours of stuff to do, 
 players are fun and helpful, you get super powers, how awesome is that?! A large world, always 
 stuff to do! Don't count and getting bored of this game. You can fly, get wings, have the ability 
 to change costumes at any time! This game is original, there's none others like it! Well, That's 
 really all I have to say right now, but please, try the game! It is worth it! I hope my review 
 helped, for more information check the website or even here, on Gamespot! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Airidis
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 4, 2007 6:50 pm PT
Review:  this game is fun because your evil, but of cource it has it flaw like you go into the blah blah 
 cave to kill whoever and its a cave with maybe a few machine things poking out of the rocks then 
 about 30 mins later u get a completely differnt mission u go to a completely differnt cave entrance 
 and your like wait..... havent i been here before and omg wht do u know its the same cave HOORAY! 
 but anyway its not tht bad of a flaw one thing that this game does well is it makes you the player 
 unique i mean you will rarely see 2 people with exactly the same costume in the same place unlike 
 in wow when your in the starting area or anywhere else and there's like another guy who looks like 
 your twin but you have no idea who this guy is. combat is good i think there more technique involved 
 in this games combat then in wow where you were immediately frowned on because your gear was not 
 as good as your opponent so immediatly fate tiped the scale in favor of you dieing :P srry for 
 run on sentences lol. i give this game a 9 personally i think WoW is maybe a microscopic LITTLE 
 BIT better then this but not much both games are enjoyable i recommend this to anyone who wants 
 to be a BAD@* (! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Anofalye
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 25, 2007 10:02 am PT
Review:  Before I go with a few key points, just realize that I dislike the genre of the super heroes, yet 
 I really love the game.
  
  - Travel powers are fast, efficients and include full vertical movement. The ferry is amazing in 
 completing the between the zones travels and improve the previous metro with CoH.
  
  - Easy to understand and get started, hard to master. I never found any game which is easier to 
 get started and harder to master, so I am not saying it is the best on this topic, I say no game 
 beat it on both fronts. It is easier then WoW or EQ to get started, but it is harder to master 
 it completely (not merely succeed) .
  
  - You characters become stronger as you advance in levels, unlike in other MMOs where you become 
 deficient as you level up. At level 1, you can solo 3 minions level 1 and it take everything in 
 you. At level 50, you can solo a score of minion 52, 2 lieutnants 52, 1 boss 52 and 1 elite boss... so 
 there is a becoming.
  
  - 50 levels, 24 powers, 67 enhancements (+the 24 first free + sprint/brawl/rest) ... you have to 
 pick a primary power in a list of 4-7 related to your archtype (so in a list 20-25) , you will get 
 the first or second power as you start and you can select any of the 8 other as you level up... many 
 players will make different choices. Repeat for the secondary... then you have to pick up to 4 alternate 
 power sets (among 10 choices) where you can put up to 16 powers (you will obviously pick a lot 
 less there) , finally you pick an epic power set (among 3) and put again up to 4 powers in there. 
 The customisation is plainly amazing, you won't see anyone like you, and even maybe you will see 
 nobody remotedly similar. Let's take an example. Dis Co my corruptor is a fire/sonic. 1/5 should 
 be a corruptor, fire is quite popular among corruptor, so 1 corruptor on 3 will pick fire. Sonic 
 is on the other end vastly ignored, there are 3 other players with that secondary ability on my 
 server at level 50... and none of these are fire as a primary. So Dis Co, my corruptor, never meet 
 someone of her class (fire/sonic) at her level, and this is good... I am UNIQUE! :P
  
  - Customisations, all the look you can get... it is amazing. I know designers who spent hours creating 
 characters for the fun of it... so it is likely to anyone's GF could spent hours there... if not 
 the guy to!
  
  
  
  It is the sequel to CoH, and they improve the original game. The navigation between the zones is 
 simpler, so you don't get lost, which is good.
  
  They never nerf any player bad soo far. So they don't ruin you past experience.
  
  Raiding 
 was always optional, you can raid or join the Lord Recluse Strike Force (group) , same reward. This 
 is a gem and a must for me!
  
  As I said up there, anyone that vaguely think ill of the game could meet me at midnight by the 
 old church, bring no witness! :P 
::::::

::::::
UserName: deadmanwaltzin
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 13, 2007 12:00 am PT
Review:  This game is amazing. The one fault is its servers. None are located in Australia and it is hard 
 to find people to play with. Apart from that complant this game is truely terrific. 
  
  It revoultionises the loot system. With no loot there's no run that same raid ten times waiting 
 for those Claws of Nubness +10 to drop. The only thing that drop are single use buffs and upgrades 
 for your powers.
  
  The character creation system is great with you coming out of the creator looking ready to kill. 
 This powerful tool combined with great gameplay makes this game a delight to play.
  
  Buy it now. (Just one version as soon one version will be turned into two due to gameplay changes 
 NCsoft is introducing.) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MPG121582
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 21, 2007 9:32 am PT
Review:  City of Villians is an amazing game and you will put a lot of hours into this game. First off you 
 can completely customize your character from masks to wings almost every park of the body can be 
 customized to the way you want and you will be totally unique. Secondly the mission system is fun 
 and you learn the ropes quickly and you'll do all kind of cool things from killing superheroes 
 and robbing banks. There are also a bunch of great Taskforces to play in the game in one you have 
 to kill a giant fiery goblin thing which is really fun. The powers you can chose from are great 
 too you can summon zombies or using a ninja blade. Overall this game is amazing and you can get 
 really into it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: slamthebowler
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jul 26, 2007 10:18 am PT
Review:  I love City of Heroes it owns. But when I heard about City of Villians I pre-ordered it right away. 
 When I started playing it I was awesome I am a super villian I can rob banks now and tear up Paragon 
 City! After awhile though it seemed a little to much like City Of Heroes which makes sence but 
 I didn't feel evil. My main problem with City of Villians if that you mostly fighting other NPC 
 villian groups which I guess its kinda like rival villians, but they could have added a few more 
 good NPC groups for the villians to beat up so there fnot ighting other bad guys. And my other 
 problem is that its City of Heroes flipped, instead saving people you kidnap them, instead of debugging 
 the bomb you plant it. This is ok but they needed to make it more evil. But don't get me wrong 
 it's completely worth buying it. Sometimes when I get mad at CoH I play my villian and go destroy 
 Paragon City. Cool thing is I can't really review the graphics and sound and such because the developers 
 are always putting awesome free expansions so there constantly changing the game, they just made 
 their 10th! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rexavian
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 12, 2007 4:28 am PT
Review:  City of Villains is the best MMO ever. It's much better than WoW. It costs less playing CoV and 
 is much more fun. Some people say it's easy. Just wait 'till u get to lvl 20. That's when it really 
 begins. I suggest u people try it. You're not gonna be disappointed! It Rocks!!!!!
  In the beginning, it might be a little boring, because u don't have so many attacks. But after 
 u go up a few lvl's, it's super fun! And u might not get as many moves as u get in WoW. But the 
 moves in CoV are much cooler! There are so many cool classes and so many cool powers. Later on 
 u can get a cape. That's cool. And after that u can get fire out from ur eyes, or lightning thru 
 ur body. CoV ROCKS!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Meteor7
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 14, 2007 11:39 pm PT
Review:  I loved CoH and when this game came out it didnt suprise me that I would love this game too. In 
 this game you can make your very own bad guy and make him or her into a legendary villain. The 
 PvP is cool. The character creation and the powers are what makes this game really great. To make 
 this game even better, they added new bank robbery missions where you rob banks and in the end 
 fight heroes. The only way you fail is if time runs out and when you die you get sent to prison 
 and you can bust out really easily. The game brought so much from CoH its like they are the same, 
 but really they aren't. Kidnappings, robberys, and becoming the biggest baddy around is really 
 fun. I loved this game and thanks to them I still have no life (well I didnt have 1 when I got 
 WoW and CoH) :D 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hellboy13666
Rating: 9.4
Date: Mar 9, 2007 11:25 am PT
Review:  i think its pretty sweet. you can make your own villan &amp; lair and choose your powers. its the 
 best game ever. i think its all it says it is, awsome. i would buy it even if it was 100 bucks. 
 the thing that gets realy annoying is the monthly fee. i only make money in the summer. i mow laws 
 for ten dollars an acre. its pretty cool having a rich grandpa. he took me to get it and he is 
 the one paying the monthly fee. it sucks tho becauze i do not have internet at my house. when i 
 play it i have to go over to my grandpas house. i play runescape. its pretty fun. if you want to 
 talk, e mail or instant message me at volcom0137@aim. com. i cant find cheats anywere. c ya l8ter 
 ~ zack 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AceTheSwift
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 6, 2007 1:24 pm PT
Review:  This game has its good and bad moments, the character creation is awesome and always makes me wish 
 i had changed something on my character. But gameplay is a grind-fest no doubt, your either collect 
 x number of this or killing x number of these, group play can spice things up but it just doesn't 
 cover. Other than that the PvP combat is awesome, it was the main thing to keep me leveling up, 
 there areso many ways to do it and each way is fun, some battles can be huge and extremely fun, 
 but in order to getto the huge battles you have to level up... graphics and sound are the best 
 i have ever seen in a MMO, and the game isn't too much of a system hog, the Item of Power clan 
 runs are very fun and add some strategy to the gameplay. Oneof the best features is building your 
 own base, its really fun and is always making me collect more points so i canperfect is defenses. 
 I also love flying, jumping, running etc. it makes running around in the game really fun. So all 
 in allthis game would be really good if they would add some substance to the missions and had less 
 grind involved 
::::::

::::::
UserName: C_Blade
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 13, 2007 1:46 am PT
Review:  In City of Villains you take on the role of... you guessed it, a villain with super powers. Of course, 
 as the GS review sums it up, you don't really feel like a villain. Probably 80% of the time, you 
 just beat up other villains who trash talk you to make you look like a wimpier one. They've added 
 new stuff since release... like Mayhem Missions where you actually do beat the snot out of cops, 
 agents, and a super hero, but that's almost all they give you, not to mention that those lack variety, 
 too.
  
  Sure, they can't have you beating on civilians... that's not really any fun. But if the developers 
 put their minds together they could come up with a better system than they have now.
  
  The Archetypes are pretty innovative, and they made sure to differ from City of Heroes pretty well. 
 Instead of Tanks, there are Brutes who deal more damage and take less of it. Instead of Scrappers, 
 there are Stalkers, who actually rely on stealth more than high-powered defense sets, but are best 
 for PvP. Instead of Controllers, Dominators... which are actually really similar. Instead of Defenders 
 and Blasters, we have Corruptors, a mix of both, with heavy range attack and ally assisting buffs/heals.
 
  
  The new Archetype is the Mastermind, which is the most unique of all, due to the fact that they 
 finally introduce a set that almost fully relies on pets. They can be overpowered, but are incredible 
 fun to play for, and there are a ton out there now.
  
  There are MUCH less Task Forces and Trials than CoH, worse side stories that don't feel as well-developed, 
 and team dynamics don't work as well since the Archetypes don't perfectly balance each other, but 
 you can get through decently.
  
  There are also new features like base building, and PvP was added so player villains can fight 
 player heroes, and those are nice additions, but they feel more like advertising tools than really 
 useful to enhancing gameplay.
  
  Don't let me take anything away from this game. It's still a GREAT game, and like my caption says, 
 it grows on you. The character creation is infinitely better than most MMOs (like WoW) , and it 
 might be one of the best parts of the game. Costumes look flush, there are tons of options, and 
 power effects can be stunning. Nevertheless, overall, the game sometimes feels a little monotonous 
 to play through, more like a chore than its enthralling counterpart CoH. What saves it is the fantastic 
 engine that CoH was originally built on. The powers are still exciting to use, and groups make 
 the game much more interesting.
  
  I compare this game to City of Heroes a lot. Maybe that's why I'm not it's biggest fan. But when 
 you think about it, it came out a year and a half later than the original, so naturally it would 
 be behind... on a lot of things. Give it another half year or so and it'll probably be in the 9 
 range, but at this point, there's still quite a bit that could be added and fixed to make it a 
 more enticing, addictive experience. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mackattacka
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 26, 2006 5:53 pm PT
Review:  Now believe me, this game is pretty good. But it just doesn't have the reach I was looking for. 
 At first, this game seemed amazing to me, a whole new world of multi player. I loved it, and I 
 spent hour after hour on it, leveling up my villain. The character creation is amazing, with so 
 many options. You will very rarely ever see two people that look the same. There are lots of nice 
 zones to go through, each filled with major crime that you can either join, or stop. Head into 
 a PvP zone, and take out some hero's. It's fun stuff, but as you dig deeper into the game, toward 
 its core, it's just not all that good. The missions become very repetitive. Ranging from a bank 
 robbery, to a Kill Everybody There mission. And you just keep doing it, and doing it. After a while, 
 it just doesn't cut it, and it makes you crave for more. And that is where this game fails, and 
 loses its hype. There is no more, and it ends right there. You want more to this game, and want 
 to fill its potential, but it crushes you down right there.
  
  Some of the servers seem to have a lug bug, which goes around randomly. Totally crushing the server 
 with a severe lag every few seconds, which drives most players crazy, and has them to do something 
 else for the day. I would say the only good aspect in this game, is the PvP arena's. Other than 
 that, I wouldn't use the money on it. After a month, I was done. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gaffster
Rating: 5.9
Date: Dec 16, 2006 8:40 pm PT
Review:  City Of Villians was made out to be the next best thing. Personally i found it very bland, confusing. 
 Don't get me wrong though i did manage to find a few good points to the game, such as the detailed 
 character design, the ability to choose your own superpowers was also very good. All in all city 
 of Villians is a game you would pay under $10 for not anything over. In total i game The City of 
 Villians the score of 5.9 and in my personal opinian that is very generous. I only hope that Marvel 
 online has looked at this game and made sure they took notes on what not to do. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KineticSoul
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 29, 2006 9:54 am PT
Review:  The Good: The character creation process is perhaps the most humorous and detailed yet created 
 in a game of this type. Combat in City Of Villains works extremely well, and unlike in other online 
 RPGs, is satisfying and compelling. Special effects from weapons and powers look fantastic and 
 seem powerful, and group combat in particular requires a degree of strategy from each member.
 
  
  The Bad: There is simply not enough breadth or depth to make it the first choice for players looking 
 for an extended role-playing option, and very little to convince new players that MMORPGs are 
 worth the monthly fee. For those willing to take the game at face value, though, City of Villains 
 will still offer a month or two of old-fashioned good fun.
  Gameplay:8.0
  Graphics:8.0
  Sound:8.0
  Value:9.0
  Tilt:9.0
  Singleplayer:8.0 PvE
  Multiplayer:8.0 PvP
  
  Conclusion: 
 Anyone with even a remote interest in creating a villain and fighting the forces of good in a persistent 
 environment need look no further: City Of Villains is a rip-roaring delight that should satisfy 
 even the pickiest gamers and comic book fans.
  
  My Score:8.0 Great 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Shaar_Asri
Rating: 8.2
Date: Sep 28, 2006 7:31 pm PT
Review:  Its a good game for multiplayer online fun, however it lacks the online game feel. Most people 
 that play online games will be shocked at the lack personal idems in this game or a player based 
 economy. It that is what you are looking for this is the wrong game. The game is about adventuring. 
 And team fun. It really reminds me of how Star Wars Galaxies was a year ago before the NGE. There 
 are some short comings.
  The main flaw with the game is the lack of a evil atmosphere. The missions aren't that evil at 
 all. I have yet to encounter a mission that truely makes me feel villianous. Most revolve around 
 slaying a person, robbing a bank or stealing something. Out side of group missions the game is 
 very dull. A villian can't be villainous. Say for instance a person was walking down the street. 
 A villian should be able to knock him out rob him and and laugh at him on the groud. I think that 
 a system similar to GTA's wanted level would go great with this game. The more evil you do the 
 more police and hero's to bust up. Or if a villain wants he should just be able to trash a town 
 for the fun of it. Now that would be a Improvement!!!
  Basically the game is a great multiplayer game, but leaves alot of room for improvement. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: REALpyrodark
Rating: 9.7
Date: Sep 21, 2006 8:45 pm PT
Review:  I SHOULD be called city of anti-heros, cause there's not a whole lot of a villainous feeling about 
 this. Ironically, It's been called one of the friendliest MMO worlds the Internet can offer. You'ld 
 expect a city of Villains to be filled with self loving jerks out to get thier's. The fact is Evil 
 turns out to be very nice to fellow evil, It's not hard to find an experienced villain happy to 
 help. Bonding for the common goal of destroying those HEROS. I love to kill those freedom force 
 guys, that's about the villainous extent of it. You are out to conquer the same evil that the heros 
 are, your just in it for reasons of Absolute Dominance, rather then Righteous whatevers. Dumbass 
 heros. This was my first MMO game so it took awhile to learn but give it a chance and look for 
 a team to except you, you'll be hooked as I am. I spent my first month just trying all the combinations 
 available and finally settled between a dominator and a brute, depending on mood and amount of 
 friends for teaming that may be online. I have definitely found what I'll be doing with my spare 
 hours from now on. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Prophet1980
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 19, 2006 2:38 pm PT
Review:  Im calling this part 1 as im about 20 hours into this game and ive still not experienced PvP combat 
 and do not feel like im able to do a full review justice.
  
  Im playing in a European server which is described as lightly populated (but they all are!) . Ive 
 no idea how popular the game is in the states.
  
  This is a MMORPG which is very similar to the hugely popular WoW. Instead of being an elf or a 
 dwarf, here your a supervillan with 5 different character sets to choose from (im not going into 
 character classes or powers, i would be here forever) . Each one breaks down into different paths 
 depending what skills you fancy. I cant stress this enough. This is THE best MMORPG for character 
 customisation. Never will you see another human player look the same as yourself. Its a huge selling 
 point.
  
  I found the first section of the game, Mercy Island, to be a reasonable start point. As you start 
 doing missions everything seems great. You run about a small island city ripped straight from any 
 comic book you can think of. Its run down and full of punks, mutants, cops and other supervillans 
 all going about their own bussines. Your XP goes up very quickly at this point and you find yourself 
 leveling up rather quickly. Allowing you to access your supermoves and customise your characters 
 abilities.
  
  As you unlock new contacts (basically the NPC's you get your missions from) you start to explose 
 new sections of the island. This is where things start to get a tad repetetive. Get a mission, 
 normally in the vein of go kill a bunch of snakes, go kill some mutant leader, clear a wherehouse 
 etc. This is all well and good the first few times around. After the 20 something time of having 
 to go down into a snake lair and kill them all, its starts to feel more like a grind than a comic 
 book experience. Having said that, it doesnt take very long before you get to the point where your 
 ready to move to the next location. Another plus is the other players in the game. All the new 
 players start at the same starting point as you and are on the same "newbie" island, which means 
 you have a common goal. Your all roughly the same level and all trying to do the same missions. 
 You soon gather up friends and thats when things start to get more fun. 
  
  Joining a supergroup (a clan/guild etc) is a must. You will find lots of helpful people this way, 
 able to teach you about the best skills and routes to take through the game as well as lots of 
 people to quest with. So far even on a lightly populated server, ive never struggled to find people 
 to fight along with.
  
  Im not going to spoil things for anyone at this point so lets just say the missions soon become 
 alot more difficult and alot more involved, requiring a party of people to complete in most cases, 
 so if your thinking of soloing this game, your in for a dissapointment. You must make friends and 
 socialise *gasp* :-)
  
  The graphics are excellent and the cities all have their own look and feel with a new set of bad 
 guys for each island. The characters themselves are the best graphical aspect, very detailed and 
 you really get the feeling of being in a comic book. I really like the "feel" of the graphics. 
 All the superpowers look great. The locations probably wont blow you away but they do a good job 
 in capturing the comic feel. Runs really smooth as well.
  
  Just as you start to get bored with running about the same loaction, you move on to the next. Really 
 well thought in the pacing department. This is the same for your superpowers and abilities. Being 
 able to fly is like wanting to have a lightsaber in this game. Its just fantastic. You supergroup 
 gets to build its own base and this enables lots of cool features and missions to be undertaken. 
 PvP base raids etc.
  
  Being a villain isnt quite as villianous as one might want it to be. You never really feel evil. 
 Which is a missed opportunity.
  
  So far im really enjoying this game and anyone thats getting a tad bored of being an elf or an 
 orc *yawn* should really check this game out. Im enjoying this game more and more as i get into 
 it. So far so good....
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: kaburan
Rating: 8.4
Date: Aug 15, 2006 9:02 pm PT
Review:  I have had a most enjoyable time playing City of Villains. I still play it to this day! If you 
 were a big fan of City of Heroes, this should be a great addition to your collection. Featuring 
 ragdoll effects which are awesome when knocking off enemies from a rooftop, great enjoyable team 
 play, a great community in most servers that Ive played on, and more than anything, its unique 
 customization added to your Villains! I'd say a must buy if you're into Heroes/Villains/Comics 
 and MMO's!
  
  Graphics wise, I say its a great step up from CoH as it supports ultra high graphics for any SLI 
 capable players. Running on an Athlon X2 3800, with (2) 256mb Nvidia 7800 GTX OC and 1 GiG Ram, 
 the game runs superbly on Very High settings with a resolution of 1280 by 1024. 
  
  Sounds are basically the same but as usual, great action music, great sound effects and emotes! 
 I give a definite two thumbs up! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: september_basic
Rating: 6.5
Date: Oct 9, 2007 2:00 am PT
Review:  First and foremost I can summarise the gameplay in City of Villains as being mostly redundant and 
 reiterative exercises in watching numbers grow and shrink. The game design approach is succinctly 
 put as offering a broken automobile for sale so that it costs less to construct and more money 
 can be made from its repair than the design value is worth.
  
  While playtesting the beta for City of Villains, I noticed that many of the graphical and gameplay 
 bugs that appeared in early iterations of City of Heroes would also appear in this game, as if 
 they had not simply ported the gameplay from their latest City of Heroes build over to City of 
 Villains. It was almost as if the designers were pretending to test the game, as if they were making 
 a game of beta-testing. That would've been all well and good if the end result was a good and solid 
 game, but the end result was not a good and solid game. It might just be that Cruptic, the designers 
 of this game, view their jobs as simple-minded games and ignore consumer wants for intelligently 
 wrought entertainment.
  
  Also, as I have noticed in City of Heroes, the design team of Cryptic has not sought to modify 
 their game to the utmost potential of their ability. The gameplay in City of Heroes suffers from 
 simplicity rather than benefitting from simplicity, and has all the appeal of a game that might 
 run as a background function with only occasional player interaction on a super-powered character 
 roster. For example, while it's been suggested on the corporate bulletin boards that the MMO of 
 City of Heroes and City of Villains permit more simulation of daily life of heroes and villains 
 outside battle, that hero and villain factions be given a life of their own and operate as if on 
 a game board, that players be permitted larger effect on the game world and more variety of gameplay, 
 this has had little effect on the design team.
  
  Instead, the design team pretends to be busy balancing this game, something that is easily done 
 with all the game's simplicity and pretense otherwise is a vicious attempt to stave off genuine 
 improvement. Often the design team will report they are rebalancing the game but this time could 
 be better spent in constructing new areas, new powers, new missions and bimonthly events as well 
 as concieving and putting into being new gameplay. All of this does not take a handful of seasons, 
 despite the pretense of most MMO design teams that it would take years to incorporate larger improvements. 
 I can say this with all certainitude because even unpaid game designers working with private campaigns 
 online and offline can achieve the non-graphical gameplay that takes these paid designers years, 
 and most of this gameplay would fit perfectly into the presently existing graphical representation.
 
  
  All in all, it appears as if someone just wants money from the consumers in exchange for their 
 diaherretic substances. I can assert that I find this present byplay without entertainment and 
 prefer well-crafted games that entertain me directly instead of being forced to witness grand stupidity 
 and feeling the need to correct it.
  
  As to graphics and sound, this game still offers redundant and unappealing super-power representation, 
 redundant and unattractive music, as well as few opportunities to enjoy unexpected and pleasant 
 alternatives to these. It's all drudgery and redundance. Buy a single-player game instead. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bafucin81
Rating: 3.2
Date: Aug 7, 2006 3:40 am PT
Review:  What can I say? First it's fun (if you take the right contact or you do a lot of snake missions) 
 but if you play this game a lot, it becomes boring. Why? Well it only have missions and some mobs 
 walking around in the city. Theres nothing else you can do.
  
  People say this game have a lot of different classes/professions... yes... but its still same boring 
 missions. That do NOT help!
  
  The game look good but its also lag from time to time. 
  
  Population is light on every EUR server and last time I looked on the US it also was light 
 and ONE medium.
  
  Community are nice people, but they don't talk much.
  
  You can't craft anything. You can't loot items, weapons, armour etc. Nothing. There is no special 
 goal in this game. And PvP system is the worst I have seen in a long time. Dunno what part of the 
 body they used when they cam up with that.
  
  And yes, people say its easy and fun. It is SUPER easy when solo. Sometimes I wounder if this game 
 was made for 7 years old kids. When its this easy, then it makes me feel dumb. So the game is too 
 easy and when its that you become bored like a donkey without a right leg... what?
  
  Score: 3 of 10.
  
  Gamespot must be blind or something... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Thomasskins
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jul 14, 2006 8:42 pm PT
Review:  CoV Is So Addictive, It's Easy, Fun, Fast Pased plush you get to meet some great people, But there 
 are 1 or 2 Downfalls, such as somtimes there is childish bickering going on over the Broadcast 
 Channel, (but i suppose you get that in most MMORPGS) .
  I find Villlians more difficult than City Of Heroes but CoV is alot faster to get to lvl 50 in 
 my oppinion.
  I play Cov & CoH, personally i perfer CoH (only because i havebeen laying it longer & have alot 
 more friends there) But i like CoV mainly for the Paper Mission with the added Mayhem Mission's 
 Alot of fast paced fun on a 8 man team.
  The only thing i have noticed is the PVP doesnt really balance right, Stalkers are only good for 
 hiding then assissinating, where as the CoH Scrapper Would beat them 1 on 1 Np at all. Apart from 
 that I love the game and cant wait for the nest Issue. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: calibanvov
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jul 14, 2006 7:26 am PT
Review:  This is an improvement over City of Heroes. However, its still lacking depth and variety in the 
 game. Their is a TON of variety in the costumes and powers, but the quests feel the same. Although 
 the added cutcenes and some story arcs are more interesting.
  
  Theres no TRUE healers, just some powers with minor healing and situational healing. Classes feel 
 sort of the same, it practically doesnt matter if your lacking a few classes in your party.
  
  Graphics are nice and the action is smooth. Lagg is worse now, then in City of Heroes.
  
 
  Its worthwhile, but dont depend on it holding you over for a year straight. You might play a couple 
 months then come back a year later, and its actually good like that.
  
  The leveling just get extremly slow at lvl 20ish.
  
  The character creation is top notch.
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: albhed_knight
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jul 4, 2006 7:58 pm PT
Review:  so many people have been asking everywhere which game is better world of warcraft or city of villains 
 ,and i say city of villains. Mainly because of the community u go on WoW and ask someone for help 
 chances are if you don't know them you will be titled the infamous "newb". but with city of villains 
 or city of heroes the community is much ,much smaller but is much kinder than that of WoW. i have 
 had the game since February and have not yet been turned done for teaming up with out a good excuse. so 
 all and all city of villains would be the best choice. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Feyre
Rating: 7
Date: Jun 25, 2006 6:46 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay:
  The gameplay in City of Villains is not as good as it should have been. It doesn't work with an 
 aiming system but automatically locks on to the target, which is great in theory, but they put 
 in something completely stupid which is a chance that you miss. This is really annoying at times, 
 especially if you die because you couldn't cast that dominate spell on that big monster charging 
 at you, or your healing spell fizzled in the mits of combat. Now all in all this wouldn't be too 
 bad but it get's worse, there is no other way of switching between targets but clicking. For certain 
 characters where you want to switch between still living enemies it can get really annoying, especially 
 when you can't find your mouse on the screen.
  On the good side it does have an awefull lot of fun spells and abilities you can use and you run 
 really fast, but that's about it.
  
  Graphics:
  The city is detailed and looks fairly good, the charachters look exceptionally well. You can adapt 
 your character to exactly what you want it to be. From a stealthy ninja, to a huge stone brute, 
 to a mad scientist, to a furry werewolf. How your character looks doesn't influence it's abilities 
 though, but they are as customizable as the way the character looks.
  Besides that it doesn't actually do anything new at a graphics level, the graphics look great but 
 there isn't anything stunning.
  
  Sound:
  First of all: There are no voice actors, all voices are in speech balloons, at first this is a 
 bit annoying though you get used to it. But still it isn't as good as voice actors. The creators 
 wanted to make it feel more like a cartoon from the old days. The idea is nice but shouldn't have 
 been done in the end. All the other sounds are pretty good, again nothing special, all abilities 
 have they own sounds and there are several jump voices dependant on your sex (male/female/brute) .
 
  
  Value:
  There is great value in the charachter customization, but because all annoyances you won't be playing 
 many charachters over certain levels. The top I got for levels was 12, then the character get's 
 old, new powers aren't added fast enough and the game get's stale. There are plenty of powers to 
 unlock and leveling up give you either new powers or other abilities but the leveling up just is 
 too slow as you get higher levels.
  There are plenty of mission but all are kinda the same, just with different texts before and after 
 the mission.
  
  Tilt:
  Depends on your charachter, can get pretty fun, especially the character editor is fun, but it 
 grows stale pretty quick. Gameplay choices the developers made can make the game really annoying 
 at times, especially if you die since you can't save/load. You'll be transported to a hospital, 
 and have to run all the way back to the mission.
  Other things like, stuff is too hard to destroy in special missions, you can't kill innocents and 
 you don't get to do really evil stuff also bring the game down.
  
  All in all City of Villains is a good and ambitious game, but it could have been so much better. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheBitterEnd
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jun 16, 2006 11:29 pm PT
Review:  City of Heroes. The MMORPG in which you created your own hero and went around doing heroic activities.
 
  For those who don't know, MMO is Massively Multiplayer Online Role Playing Game. Aaannyway. City 
 of Villains is the sequel, or expansion, or whatever you want to call it to City of Heroes. Basically 
 the same, only, the darker side of the two.
  The game comes with a 30-Day-Free-Trial, plus a few other game cards with 14-Day-Trials for City 
 of Heroes. After they run out, it's 15 dollars a month to play.
  There are also some added features since City of Heroes, like the ability to make Secret Bases 
 with private hospitals, teleporters, and other thing for your Super Group, which is basically a 
 clan.
  When you start out, you have the ability to make a One-of-a-kind Villain. Anyone who appreciates 
 customization or originality will love the many options. 
  There are various options, such as helmets, shoulder pads, armor, tights, and more. After you create 
 your villain, you start playing in the middle of a Prison Break. This is basically your tutorial 
 run, teaching you how to use your powers and about enchantments and inspirations.
  
  After you finish the prison break, you meet your first contact, and do your first couple of missions. 
 As you defeat more enemies, you gain experience, and level up. The higher you level, the more powers 
 and enchantment slots you gain.
  The cool thing about this game, is if you have City of Villains or Heroes, the online world you 
 play in is combined with both games. There are special Player vs. Player zones where you can fight 
 other Villains or Heroes. 
  
  When you get to Level 10, you have the ability to create Super Groups, or have a Lackey. Higher 
 levels have the ability to take lower levels under their wing as a lackey. A Lackey's abilities 
 are boosted up to the higher level's.
  Basically, the higher the level, the more the abilities.
  
  I have a powerful tip for you. 
 When you start, don't make your character to be good. Make it the way you want to, make it for 
 FUN.
  There isn't much more I can tell you, as I just got this game, but felt I had to review it. You'd 
 have to get the game yourself, or at least do your homework on it to know whether or not you'd 
 like it.
  Relatively difficult at first, in my opinion, but you can get the hang of it.
  
  So, I would say it's a good beginner's (like me!) MMO.
  And, if you can, you may as well buy 
 the bundle with both City of Heroes AND City of Villains.
  
  Final Verdict: Buy it if you need a change from Druids and Paladins, or are a beginner at MMOs, 
 and I'll see ya there. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kb80000
Rating: 6.3
Date: Jun 13, 2006 10:35 am PT
Review:  That's it... end of story. I've played my character up to level 20 and now it is time to call it 
 a day. The long and the short of it is, well, it's boring me. Other reviews have said that it's 
 great to fly around etc a detailed city but after night after night of it I'm getting rather fed 
 up. The only other thing is to do yet another mission.. find a door.. go through.. rob the same bank/defeat 
 a boss etc. Sorry, but to have a mega city with nothing to do in it is just a damn shame and a 
 waste... there isn't even a community meeting place to yarn about things to other players (if you 
 ever see any) .
  I need a MMORP with something to look foward to. EG an amazing weapon, a new set of armour. But 
 all we have on offer is a new costume/hair-do and progression to the next tedious, do-it-all again, 
 island. It's sad because I really enjoyed it; just wish it had the content to keep it interesting. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BigEfenRobot
Rating: 6
Date: Jun 13, 2006 9:30 am PT
Review:  I picked up this game because it looked realy cool but I got bored with it in less than a month. 
 There are no drops! No weapons. No reason to level up you realy have nothing to look forward too. 
 Kill a guy. No you wont have the chance of an epic item dropping or even a common one. Nothing. 
 Just experience. HOW COOL IS THAT! It gets to that point where you say "Why even bother". Thats 
 the problem with this game and the only problem.
  Well, the missions are REALY tedious.
  
  The character creator is realy fun and awesome. And the game play is satisfactory. I mean I 
 love flying around a city or Jumping around , leaping over buildings. Thats somthing that you will 
 realy enjoy. The rest sucks. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 3jsmk
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 10, 2006 11:32 pm PT
Review:  The expansion to coh, adds a bunch of new features and all but just doesn't beat the original city 
 of heroes, though the bank robberies, mayhem missions, kidnapping and whatnot is fun, it doesn't 
 provide a real villainy feel, don't get me wrong.. robbing banks does a little here and there, 
 along with kidnapping.. but it's in city of heroes also, and they just changed 2 words - Rescue 
 & kidnap, woopie im escorting an NPC, anyway it's fun but you'll find yourself running out of missions 
 and having to do newspaper missions and they get old and boring. I prefer trying city of heroes 
 first, this to me just doesn't beat the original. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MattyLees
Rating: 4.7
Date: Jun 5, 2006 12:59 pm PT
Review:  Buggy, broken and unfinished, City of Villains is a humongous disappointment.
  
  Bringing dramatically game changing patches and updates to incorporate the apparent necessity of 
 PVP in the Heroes and Villains universe and several promising features that are only now being 
 touched upon or not even possible for casual players to utilise, I presumed that CoV was doomed 
 from the start. Despite this, my love for CoH meant that I ended up pre-ordering and buying its 
 sequel. My gripes with this game started in beta and continue to feature in game play now; such 
 as the terrible optimisation even with some quite drab locales and soundscapes (very difficult 
 to get over 25fps without a 2000 system) , looping sound bugs and difficulty. CoV's combat remain's 
 the same as CoH's but to a much more difficult degree.
  
  Launch an attack. Did it hit? Yes? Great.
  It missed? Run for the hills before you're pounded 
 into dust by the games rather imaginative but overpowered assortment of rival villains and zealous 
 doo-gooder superheroes. You won't ever hit 'em again in this attempt, maggot!
  
  PvP is effectively this game's downfall because the City of that its community loves has twisted 
 itself out of shape. Enhancement Diversification, while not a major bone of contention personally, 
 has angered and bittered the community by making our heroes and villains that little bit less super. 
 Secondly, the influx of 1337 PvP d00ds has all but decimated the EU sector's welcoming and stalwart 
 roleplaying community.
  
  Be a CoH hero for a vastly better experience. Crime doesn't pay after all. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: haikiller12
Rating: 8.4
Date: May 30, 2006 9:34 pm PT
Review:  City of Villains is the standalone sequel to critically acclaimed MMORPG City of Heroes. Using 
 a staggering assortment of new powers, abilities, and customization options, players can now experience 
 sinister game play from the other side of the mask. With diabolical craft and guile, players forge 
 new super-powered villain characters in an attempt to dominate the world. Heroes and authorities 
 of Paragon City will do all in their power to thwart these evil plans of destruction. It will take 
 a supreme effort for true domination.
  
  As expected, there are numerous similarities between City of Heroes and City of Villains  in many 
 instances this is a good thing, but in some ways the game is disappointing. To their credit, though, 
 Cryptic did a marvelous job utilizing the same tools to create a different effect.
  For example, most of the graphics and animations in CoV are the same as the graphics and animations 
 in CoH. But with the clever usage of lighting, placement, and a few new additions, the Rogue Isles 
 are militaristic instead of pristine.
  
  Skills, at first glance, are a major disappointment; there are very few new powersets, and most 
 of the new ones belong to the Masterminds. Once I started to play, though, I realized how different 
 the CoV Archetypes are from their CoH counterparts; the mix of powersets creates truly different 
 characters that require an entirely different game play style. Corrupters dont play like Blasters, 
 but they also dont play like Controllers; even Stalkers are a far cry from their Scrapper brethren.
 
  
  Unfortunately, there is still a lot of balance work to be done with the CoV classes. Some archetypes 
 are just way more powerful than another. For example, a Mastermind with six robots or ninjas can 
 clear an entire mission on the highest difficulty setting, relentless, while a Corrupter might 
 have a hard time on the easiest setting, villainous.
  
  Many of the missions seem similar to those you might complete in CoH, just with a different story 
 to go with them (i. e. instead of disarming a bomb, you arm it!) . The exceptions to this are the 
 kidnapping and bank robbing missions, both of which are somewhat painful. In the kidnapping missions, 
 I had some problems getting my victims to follow me without getting stuck. The bank robbing missions 
 are nearly impossible for Corrupters or other delicate classes.
  
  One cool new mission-related addition to City of Villains is the newspaper missions. Instead of 
 being confined to contacts, villains can do randomly generated missions from the newspaper. You 
 get a choice of three different missions, which means more choice in what kind of mission you run 
  hate kidnappings? No problem; just volunteer to steal some top-secret documents instead. Doing 
 newspaper missions earns you brownie points with the broker for your zone. The broker can then 
 introduce you to new contacts so you can run storyline missions if so desired.
  
  Now for the new stuff. One of the most prominent new features of City of Villains is the base building 
 system. The only system that you can really compare base building to is costume creation. There 
 are several hundred decorative items to be placed anywhere you want in bases. Ceiling and floor 
 tiles can be raised or lowered to create platforms or small rooms. Even the lighting is entirely 
 customizable, both in intensity and color.
  
  Bases also serve many functional purposes. Players can build different useful objects in different 
 rooms of the base: Reclaimators so that supergroup members can resurrect to the base rather than 
 the hospital; Telepads to teleport from the base to any zone that the supergroup has fully explored; 
 Autodocs to buy inspirations; weapon and defense systems to protect Items of Power; and many crafting 
 tables to deal with salvage. Some of these objects require salvage to build as well as prestige.
 
  
  Bases also give players the ability to hold Items of Power, special objects that give supergroup 
 wide buffs, either by raiding other bases or by completing the Cathedral of Pain Trial given by 
 the Mission Computer. The buffs from these items are very useful, but also come with a price to 
 keep their Items of Power, supergroups have to defend their base. Base items can also become damaged, 
 making Item-hoarding an expensive task.
  
  Also new in CoV are the PvP zones. In the first zone, Bloody Bay, all players are made level 25, 
 whether they are really level 20 or level 50. In this zone its heroes versus villains and is fairly 
 straightforward; the main plus of this zone is a quest to collect meteor samples to obtain a powerful 
 summon. The next zone, Sirens Call, automatically makes all players level 30. In this zone is 
 a battle over hotspots; every few minutes a hotspot will pop up where NPCs and PCs fight over the 
 area. While in Sirens Call you can build up your bounty by killing specific enemies to take their 
 bounty, then trade it in for rewards. The problem is, if youre killed, your killer gets your entire 
 bounty! The last PvP zone, Warburg, is a free for all. In this zone you can do a special mission 
 to receive another powerful temporary power.
  
  In all of these zones you can run missions that either boost their sides abilities or hinder the 
 other side, such as damage or damage resistance buffs or debuffs. Players can also come to these 
 zones just for PvE. This can be beneficial as there are more opportunities to obtain salvage drops 
 from the numerous bosses and lieutenants in the PvP zones and you can get salvage from running 
 the missions in the zone.
  
  One of the big draws for City of Villains is that casual and hardcore friends can play at their 
 own speed and still hang out and run missions together. This is made possible by the lackey system 
 (the equivalent to City of Heroes sidekick system) , which allows lower level players to lackey 
 to a higher level friend, or lets higher levels malefactor down to the level of their friend (the 
 former being the more popular and profitable option) . While in range of their partners, lackeys 
 have the fighting ability of a character one level lower i. e. if a 5th level character lackeys 
 to a 20th level character, the 5th level character will fight like an 19th level character. While 
 the lackeys arent as proficient as a normal 19th level character  they have less skills, their 
 enhancements arent upgraded, etc  they are able to contribute to the mission and receive rewards 
 of experience and enhancements suitable to their level, as well as experience and salvage. Malefactors 
 are lowered to the level of their partners, losing all their higher level skills though keeping 
 their enhancements and enhancement slots. While partnered, malefactors dont get experience, but 
 they do get extra infamy and can work off debt. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FunnyFella101
Rating: 10
Date: May 24, 2006 7:48 am PT
Review:  I say this is the best i mean the best MMORPG I played! You have too play this game no way in the 
 world can you miss out on this game!
  
  1. Mission's are easy and fun.
  2. Alot of outfit's too make and as you turn level 20 and 30 you unlock new stuff!
  3. Easy too 
 play a monkey can play it!
  4. I love this game and thay allways do updates on it.
  5. Not alot of money just $14 that's not alot!
  
  I think you have to try this game out whoever 
 you are! I love This game so can you. Oh and if you are not a Villain lover. Play City of Heros. Its 
 the same game just you play as a Hero. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spideycombo
Rating: 7.3
Date: May 22, 2006 4:49 pm PT
Review:  City of Villains is the stand alone companion to the MMO, City of Heroes, but in terms of a game, 
 it's almost a sequel. The two games play near identical however game play in City of Villains has 
 been streamlined eliminating much of the wasteful time spent traveling in City of Heroes and the 
 story made more prominent.
  After creating your villain with the much loved character creator, the game places you in "The 
 Zig", the super villain prison in the City of Heroes. This is where the tutorial begins and also 
 the story. Lord Recluse, leader of the spider-influenced Arachnos army, has staged a massive breakout 
 for super powered villains, searching for the "destined one". Once completing the tutorial, players 
 select who will be their first contact, a mercenary named Burke or an agent of Arachnos called 
 Kalinda. At the time of the game's launch, Kalinda was the only starting contact forcing villains 
 to co-operate with Arachnos. The mercenary was added later giving the option to be somewhat freelance. 
 
  It's obvious after playing both City of Heroes and City of Villains that the "Villains" has a stronger 
 focus on the story. Cut scenes have been added to certain missions and players encounter the same 
 NPCs at various points in their villainous career, giving the game a much more connected feel. 
 However, no matter how well written some of the story arcs may be, the game play can still become 
 rather repetitive.
  The majority of missions you receive will send you to a location within the current zone you're 
 in and have "defeat" (apparently no one is ever killed) all the opponents in the building. Sometimes, 
 only the boss and his cronies will need to be taken out to complete a mission. There are the missions 
 that have you seek out specific objects and combinations of the three. Though in addition to the 
 normal contacts, "brokers" have been introduced and through a series of random missions, villains 
 can unlock a "heist" and rob a local bank. These missions which are picked up from opening a newspaper, 
 makes getting new missions a breeze since you can just pop open the paper, select a mission, and 
 be on your villainous way. The majority of missions will be in the zone in which they were received 
 which cuts out the needless travel that is still rampant in City of Heroes.
  Coming soon in addition to the newspaper missions will be the "mayhem missions", these replace 
 the bank heists and puts villains in an instanced version of one of the zones featured in City 
 of Heroes. These missions are a much welcomed change to the ordinary missions. Within the mayhem 
 missions are bank heist and mini side-missions. It's during these mayhem missions that I felt most 
 villainous as I rampaged through the clean streets of Paragon City blowing up parking meters and 
 kicking the change around.
  Most of the game play may still be repetitive, but just as any MMO, it's also a social environment 
 and who you play with can make all the difference. Both City of Villains and City of Heroes has 
 a strong community through the forums and within the game. Another new addition with City of Villains 
 is the Super group Base building feature in which players can build teleporters, medical rooms, 
 and unlock special missions. Though don't expect to build your own Fortress of Solitude. It takes 
 either even a moderately sized super group a few months to build a fully functional base.
  City of Villains may not be a groundbreaking game, but for anyone who's a fan of super villains 
 and heroes, it's definitely worth playing.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: FrostyGoat
Rating: 7.1
Date: May 16, 2006 5:24 pm PT
Review:  If you want my review for CoV is simply the same as my City of Heroes you can find here
  
  http://www. gamespot. com/pc/rpg/cityofheroes/player_review. html? id=312642
  
  There are a few 
 key problems to the game which is why the score is nuked a bit. 
  
  IT WAS CREATED BY USING A COOKIE CUTTER! Oh wow, you can now rob banks, which is about the only 
 new thing to the game along with newspaper missions. Basically they reveresed how missions were 
 done for this game. Like for example, instead of saving someone as a hero you are kid napping them. 
 The game plays the same as City of Heroes in almost every way. The fact that 90% of the power sets 
 were ripped off from City of Heroes but given new names and animations, and crappier stats, well 
 ya not so good. 
  
  Issue 7 which is a free large update which is due at the end of May of start June if things go 
 according to plan, well be the first attempt to add a little difference to the twins though not 
 very much still. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: greekmanx
Rating: 9
Date: May 12, 2006 10:52 pm PT
Review:  I must say I have played about 30+ MMO's in my day and this is one of the greats. I myself like 
 COV because it is original not many mmo's that I know of based on SuperVillains. If you like it 
 try COH or City of Heroes also both same price 14.95 for both games together. I would say worth 
 the 15 buck easily if you have the time like any other mmo to play it. It is fun and there is alot 
 of updates. They are always inproving it. Also great community of people. So all in all worth a 
 try you may be surprised and like it as much as I do. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: XTheUnionX
Rating: 5.7
Date: May 12, 2006 7:34 pm PT
Review:  Now, I'm a diehard fan of City Of Heroes with a character on freedom server (@takingbackthelife, 
 Hit Me Up) but when I bought City Of Villains I thought, "Wow, City Of Heroes, but EVIL". The sick 
 reality I found was crushing. In the words of a certain evil docter, this game can be considered, 
 quazi-evil, the diet-Coke of evil. One can only commit so many crimes with a T rating. Despite 
 the myriad of new and awesome costume options that actually made the game semi-worthwhile, I found 
 everyone followed a similar character design. Yuo were either the devil, a ripoff of one of the 
 NPC gangmembers, or a hooded guy dressed in black. And, as with all evil counterparts, this was 
 swarming with obnoxious kids who said things to make a copyright infringement lawyer weep. Also, 
 there are so many low level player that drop out of the game early that it is incredibly laggy, 
 and impossible to have a smooth fight. And don't get me STARTED on the powers. There is NO originallity 
 othe rthen masterminds (which are cool) , the rest of the powers are boring counterparts of their 
 heroic origins. Ugh, buy it only for the superbases and cool costumes. This game is a LETDOWN. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spiderJ1122
Rating: 7.6
Date: May 7, 2006 7:47 pm PT
Review:  I recently aquired this game after someone else didnt like it. Im not going to lie i really wanted 
 to play it since it seemed like a cool concept. Ive played WoW before so i have some knowledge 
 about MMO. The one thing i really liked about the game was the character design. I spent an hour 
 plus designing my character and deciding which type of villian i wanted to be.
  
  The one thing i hate the most about the game is that all your mission take place in "instances" 
 separate from the rest of the game. I only remember on mission where i stayed in the world. I was 
 fine with the game until about level fifteen all the mission became boring and all the level design 
 had been repeated about a 1000 times by then so i would get bored very easily.
  
  Things that would make this game awesome would be the ability to actually be evil. I always had 
 the urge to beat up an innocent by stander but there invalid targets. If the forces of WoW would 
 get together and Coach the CoH and CoV gang then we would have an awesome game on our hands but 
 until then dont expect to much out of this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: game_god_
Rating: 6.9
Date: Apr 21, 2006 9:07 pm PT
Review:  CoV is a good one if it were the only mmo out right now, but who would buy it with GW and WoW out? 
 I don't persoanlly know ne1. I know a guy named mike who bought all the **** for it, pre-ordered 
 it, talked so much **** about it ( and this kid is one who sticks to his "owns") , sayin it'll kick 
 WoW's ass. Then he got it, played it a week and said gd i wasted $100 for all this and WoW is 20x 
 better. I played it for awile over there and some at my company (AI) . CoV is one of those games 
 that pisses me off because all the crap games are taking the kick ass game titles like City of 
 Villans and Painkiller. Then you lok at the kick ass games with titles no one would ever take like 
 World of Warcraft and Grand Theft Auto. If you're gunna buy an MMO just buy World of Warcraft, 
 i wouldn't even give it thought because Guild Wars and CoV dont compete an EverQuest has gotten 
 too old and out dated. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: khan115
Rating: 7.3
Date: Apr 19, 2006 9:48 am PT
Review:  I played the game on a trial, and I thought it was good to say the least. But there didnt' seem 
 to be anything new from City of heroes, except of course the new areas added to CoH itself, however, 
 these could simply be considered as add-ons/expansions.
  So the game itself. The costumes available are as cool as ever, similarly to CoH, the possibilities 
 are almost endless! You can be an average looking villain, or you could decide to make yourself 
 a demon or simply a wierdo, whatever you want!
  Gameplay. As aforementioned, there is very little that is different or unique from City of Heroes, 
 except that you now get an FMV before missions, which is a cool and makes it more appealing. 
 
  I'm finding it hard to give the game itself any compliments, as much as I want to; but I can say 
 one thing, if anything: it was not the game itself that stood out to me. It was the expansions 
 that were made to CoH: Super Group bases and Player vs. Player areas in particular. Before these 
 expansions, SG's were simply 'cool', but after getting bases, Im sure everyone would agree it 
 was a welcomed addition, along with which the base-raids are VERY COOL!
  The PvP areas were also a sight for sore eyes, as the arena's only provided ample satisfaction, 
 whilst these new areas brought a new dimension to PvP. being able to run about a city area, without 
 boundaries (except of course the city boundaries) , unlike arena battles, which are on very small 
 maps. 
  What more can I say... the game is worth getting if you have spare cash lying around, that you 
 dont think you're going to need anytime soon. Apart from that, I wouldnt empty my pockets to 
 get it. Note my rating is based on the game itself, and not the combination with CoH.
  Anyhow, I'm actually running short on time, I think theres a TF being set up on CoH ;D and I dont 
 want to miss out!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Zilor
Rating: 7
Date: Apr 10, 2006 2:14 am PT
Review:  City of Villains a lot like City of Heroes is a lot of fun for a little while for most people. 
 The game has a very entertaining combat setup and you are usually doing relatively interesting 
 things, at first.
  
  After a while it all just sort of blends together and youre left going Well, what else is there 
 to do? and thats where the game drops out from under you. Youve done what there is to do within 
 the first 20 levels, its just a lot more of the same with no alternate content to give you a break.
 
  
  Another failing is regardless of which version youre playing you rarely feel super, this is 
 a two part fault. The first part is inherent to what the game is, an MMOG, you cant be any more 
 super than someone else thusly no one is actually super at all, everyone is just average. Interestingly 
 enough rather than making the players the heroes there are SUPER Super Heroes which do all of the 
 fun stuff rather than the players.
  
  The other fault of it is that in all of the level designs and quests you never do anything super, 
 you kill some guys with guns, or robots, or you kill a guy with a TV on his head, or you kill a 
 snake man, or you kill any other amount of generally the same things with different models.
  
  The game fails entirely at providing variety of game play, its an awesome base for something 
 great to be built off, but right now its like one quarter of what could be a great whole if they 
 ever figure out how to make you feel heroic, give you some alternative things to do, and add a 
 little special something that makes the game different and interesting. Though, in its defense 
 no MMOG really has that last quarter.
  
  City of Villains succeeds in the same place its benevolent cousin does, the character creation. 
 Its amazing, awesome, super great and all that jazz. Truly its the best character creation system 
 in an MMOG or any game to date.
  
  The end all question: Is it worth buying the box? Id have to say, yes if you havent played City 
 of Heroes and no if you have. Its the same game as City of Heroes just with coat of evil put over 
 it.
  
  However if youve never played City of Heroes pick up City of Villains, itll give you a month 
 or two of entertainment and you may just be one of the people it really jives with, they are out 
 there. Overall though its a time killer and the most fun the product offers is before you even 
 enter the game with making your character.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Trakan
Rating: 4
Date: Apr 7, 2006 9:32 am PT
Review:  I was disappointed. I can only speak for me, but I didn't enjoy this game. In GW and WoW, you can 
 double click on things and your character will have a default attack, but for this you have to 
 micro-manage every single attack. Also, and here I will for a moment join in with the opinions 
 of the thronging masses, the quests don't make you feel especially evil. The character creation 
 tool is fun, but it could be a lot better. All in all, this game was a huge disappointment to me.
 
  Maybe now they'll make "City of Citizens" where you walk around and hope a villain doesn't grab 
 you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ychi
Rating: 6.3
Date: Apr 6, 2006 7:10 am PT
Review:  Summary:
  
  The one good point about getting City of Villians (CoV) is that you can play both on the same account 
 and at the same subscription rate. Just make darned sure you *upgrade* your CoH account or you 
 will be in for some headaches. Their customer service process forces you to use email but with 
 some web searching they do have a number in Austin Tx so you can finally speak with someone directly. 
 Otherwise expect to wait at least 24+ hours before they even respond to you.
  
  Ok if you have played CoH before skip down to "Show me what is new" heading.
  
  ** Note *** 
 
  
  This game uses a death penalty system or debt system. Other games such as World of Warcraft do 
 not use a debt system. So when you die or are unconscious you have to pay the debt at 50% split 
 for all experience gained until you are out of debt. Later levels debut gets very easy to rack 
 up in one or two deaths, think 30,000 exp to pay off for one death and that is a light example... 
 ouch.
  
  What is City of Villians:
  
  Alright assuming you are not familiar with this type of game: Think of most comic books you have 
 read, remember all the battles both big and small and pretty much you have CoV style of game in 
 a nutshell. This is both a blessing and a serious bane as you will see in a bit.
  
  You start out with the character generation screen. Here you pick what type of villain you want 
 to be. If you look carefully you will notice its all scales of balance between offensive and defensive. 
 For example you can be a big Brawler type and take a ton of damage but what you give out is not 
 nearly as powerful. The reverse of this is the Corruptor who is very weak defensively but the damage 
 output is huge. So keep in mind the balance of power when you make your character and read the 
 descriptions of each to see what interests you the most. Next you pick your primary and secondary 
 powers, again you need to choose carefully and read over what each does: lots of damage, stuns 
 the enemy, all long range attacks, etc. Take your time here as you will not time out or get disconnected 
 while making tough choices at each stage during development.
  
  On power selections most can be later modified with upgrades to increase different aspects of a 
 power. For example energy punch has a chance to stun, if you later decide you can increase the 
 stun power even more but it will be at the losss of damage. See the balance? Each choice can make 
 you stronger in one area and weaker in others. Now what you can do is take your different attacks 
 have one that is all about stun, that is your opening attack, then the rest of your attacks are 
 all about hitting accurately and for lots of damage. So its not as bad as it sounds.
  
  Next is the costume generator. This is something to really enjoy and to take your time at. Cryptic 
 makers of CoH and CoV have the best character appearance generator in the industry to date. No 
 one even comes close. You have an entire toy box of mix and match items, colors, hair, face, etc. 
 Its a very long list of neat things you can do in your hero design. Some even feel its almost a 
 game in itself : ) .
  
  After you have finished your character appearance next you name your character and then you can 
 type in a bio. The bio is your chance to flex your story telling muscle and build a character background. 
 It can be funny, sad, drama, etc. Its all up to you and adds a lot of color for your character 
 to any who read it.
  
  After clicking next, if you are lucky no one has taken your super cool character name then the 
 game will load and start you in the middle of a prison break. Here you will have the screen on 
 getting used to looking and moving around. Take your time fine tuning the interface to your liking 
 as you will spend a ton of time looking moving around etc. Here you will be introduced to the method 
 of how CoV plays, talking to someone, getting a mission, carrying it out and then taking the next 
 mission.
  
  After you escape the prison then you head to the next contact and start up another set of missions. 
 After awhile you will begin to wonder if there is something else besides the mission grind. This 
 is where CoV like CoH fails. There is nothing more but another mission to grind though, and leveling 
 takes longer and longer as you push towards the upper levels.
  
  There is no crafting of any kind, no super weapons to make, no armors to build. There are no down 
 time things to do in the game, only an endless stream of combat missions. Yes the story arcs help 
 along with differing environments that make them a bit more interesting but otherwise you are stuck 
 like everyone else grinding for the next level.
  
  One of the main high points are you you get your travel power - flying which is a blast, super 
 speed, super jump, teleportation, etc. After that its working your way into your power set picking 
 and choosing. 
  
  I also ---  highly   
  You can also join a super group and build a base along with opponet base raids but still to this 
 day its bug ridden, crashes your game to the desktop and cause a lot of headaches in general. Should 
 you join a super group anyway? Yes as that is only thing to do other than missions plus some of 
 the base equipment that is purchased later though the work of the members can be helpful.
  
  So the wrap up: CoV and for that matter CoH are great for when you want to hop on for some 
 rumble but nothing more. Its a super hero/villan combat simulator to the core with no other frills. 
 So if you were looking to be Batman with his car, utility belt, construct new devices, etc. sorry 
 neither CoH or CoV will offer this for you. This makes it for a tough choice to go with vs other 
 Massive Multiplayer games out there that at the same subscription price offer lots of other things 
 to do. Right now its the only super hero/villain simulator out to date but if there is ever any 
 competition things might finally change with the game format offering more things to do....
  
  Show me what is new:
  
  Its a reskinned version of CoH. Same mind numbing mission grind, 
 the only real interesting character class is the Master Mind as you get a super pet class that 
 does very well both solo and needed in groups. At later levels you can have 5+ pets running around 
 smashing, chopping, blasting etc. It is good fun for awhile. Different Master minds: tech - robots, 
 necro - zombies/undead, soldier merc types, Ninja's (can never have enough ninjas!) etc. The rest 
 of the class choices are all variations of the standard classes in CoH. Cryptic tried to put some 
 spin on the original power sets as well and added some slightly interesting changes, like getting 
 stealth built in to an otherwise brick power set.
  
  Also the additional costume choices in CoV are nice. So you get all of the original stuff plus 
 the new villain look sets. Not bad and gives the game a bit more longevity.
  
  Overall what a bummer, they had a chance to step their game forward and instead went for a cheesy 
 remake. Again I think its pure lack of competition as the designers flat refusal to break out of 
 the deep trench they have so willingly dug themselves into. I can't wait till another real super 
 powered game comes out and see how they will react. Only time will tell.
  
  See you soon! Until next time true believers! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rdhnightwolf
Rating: 8.8
Date: Mar 27, 2006 11:41 am PT
Review:  City of Heroes was good, but now that City of Villains is out...... mmmmm.... being evil never felt 
 so good. This game has the exact same idea that City of Heroes has except that now you are a super 
 villain. The missions are pretty similar and nothing else has really changed. Some of the power 
 sets are the same but with an evil twist to it. The land is dark and tainted by evil and the villains 
 you run into are just plain nasty at times. 
  
  The new addition of making a super base is a great thing. Once again, this game is best played 
 in a group but can be done alone. (Especially if you are a mastermind.) 
  
  All in all, if you liked City of Heroes, chances are you'll like City of Villains. More of the 
 same, just way more wicked!
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: yazoo100
Rating: 7.3
Date: Mar 25, 2006 9:16 am PT
Review:  I have been playing City of Heroes for 2 years. I have enjoyed it quite a bit. I played City of 
 Villains on the Beta Test and have been playing ever since it has gone live. City of Villains is 
 basically just a pig with a different colored lipstick. The missions are the same and all the strike 
 forces or task forces are basically the same. There are few new bad guys to fight, which was disappointing. 
 Also, the Archtypes are quite disappointing. They are the same old archtypes as in City of Heroes. 
 I was really looking forward to the latest update of i7, but I have cancelled both of my accounts. 
 After 2 years, the game has become boring and I do not enjoy playing it any more. However, it did 
 keep me entertained for 2 years, so I will say that. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BigC43
Rating: 8.3
Date: Mar 22, 2006 6:49 am PT
Review:  COH is a very good MMO that comic book fans love. COV allows gamers to switch sides and fight against 
 the heroes they've grown to love. The nice thing is, it adds a few new features to COH as well 
 as creating PvP areas and allowing supergroups to create bases. The graphics are better and the 
 action is a little more intence. it did divide the COH population in two for a while, but having 
 both games can remedy that situation. It's a very good expansion to an already very good game. 
 If you have COH and love it or if you like being the bad guy, this game is for you. Pick up City 
 of Villians! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: casan02
Rating: 9.1
Date: Mar 21, 2006 11:11 pm PT
Review:  City of Villians can either be described as a sequel to City of Hereos or a stand-alone-game, depending 
 who you ask. What matters is that this game offers great potential of being a super villian, and 
 causing havoc in Rogue Isle.
  
  One of the key features that is unique is how flexible and customizable you can actually make your 
 villian. You can make him look like a mad scientist, or a rogue general, or a pure evil zombie, 
 depending how you want that villian to look. There are more then 200 parts in customizing how your 
 villian looks, and later on, you can give it different looks as you gain more Threat Levels.
  
  After creating your unique villian, you then will be take into a tutorial level that not only 
 involves you in the story, but you also learn the basic mechanics of the game, wich isn't boring 
 at all when you first start playing the game, unlike the other MMORPGs that just put you on the 
 spot.
  
  The grahics are great, and do not require a state of the art PC for it. Although the graphics are 
 not as great from EverQuest II, they are up to par with other online games like FFXI and WoW. However, 
 there are some great details in the game like sparks flying when after electrecuting someone or 
 fire flares going of after an explosion.
  
  The missions in the game are somewhat repetative, but fun if you do not mind killing over and over 
 the mobs. The missons include defeating all the mobs, robbing a bank, kidnapping a person, and 
 stealing some important files. It should not be a surprised, because this is always something of 
 a flaw when it comes to MMORPGs
  
  Another great feature is the abilty to actually build a super base, and customize it however you 
 want to. Owning a secret base is great because with it, you can set up teleporters to other areas 
 of ROguer Isle, or get ressurected after being defeated from a battle. There are more then 100 
 pieces and themes in customizong your base. Wanna hear the best part? How about stealing important 
 artifacts from a super heroe base and if succesful, your super grtoup (guild) gets a bonus as long 
 as that artifact is in your base, and in control.
  
  The PvP is ok, but in my opinion, it still needs some areas to fix, like sometimes one archetype 
 is way powerful then the other one, or some powers actualyl have a huge edge against another player, 
 but hey, it's fun for awhile.
  
  All in all, if you like being evil and cold hearted, then this is the game for you, if you do not 
 mind the repetetive features.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Smallone85
Rating: 8.3
Date: Mar 20, 2006 6:05 am PT
Review:  City of Villains, or CoV, is one of the better MMOs out there now. It does something that most 
 people dreamed about as children, being a larger than life character who saved people. That of 
 course was until we learned sarcasm and took a cynical look at our previous hero. What would happen 
 if our former hero turned bad. Cryptic Studios goal is to allow you the gamer to answer that question.
 
  
  The game plays well and has a very generous community supporting it. Most people in the game are 
 helpful and always collecting people to form teams the cornerstone of the games Multiplayer dimension. 
 Most people who are rude or obnoxious tend to find the game difficult and leave the game creating 
 a wonderland of social gaming.
  
  This is countered by the fact that the players of CoH/CoV tend to be in a constant battle with 
 the developers of the game. The game in its sixth large patch tends to be totally reinvented everytime 
 it goes through a large patch. This is great for people who enjoy creating a new character and 
 enjoy adapting to changing enviroments. However for those of you out there that enjoy making your 
 one character and finding that one style that works perfectly you might want to look elsewhere, 
 because once you finally get the perfect character the gameplay will change and your once perfect 
 character will now just be fodder for a horde of goody goody heros.
  
  Technically the game offers some cool visuals and decent audio performance but does seem to lag 
 when battles between include multiple characters, or "Toons", and strong enemies especially if 
 any of the Villains use minions in their battles.
  
  Best thing for this game, and for almost all of the MMOs out there is to talk to you friends and 
 see which ones they are playing and play those. Nothing beats clobbering the crap out of something 
 with your friends there to watch you back. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheYoda117
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 4, 2007 1:51 pm PT
Review:  I have played this game for 2 year and im still playing. You cant realy get bored of that game. 
 You'll always have something new to try.
  
  I tryed a lot of MORPG , CoH / CoV is the only one that make us costomise our whole costume and 
 power set with that much choses. An other good part of the game is the Super groups (guilds) we 
 not just can make a huge team of 100 villains but we also can make our own base for the whole SG.
 
  
  CoV also have the best graphics ive seen for a MORPG. (my opinion)
  
  The gameplay is different by the ATs you choses like other rpg games but with 61 different power 
 set and that just for cov.
  
  The PvP is harder than other MORPG just because some ATs are stronger for PvP than other and we 
 need more skill. One of the big difference is the travel powers, in Coh/Cov we can get a travel 
 power at lvl 14 (fly, super jump, teleportation, super speed) that make the figth more interesting 
 than other MORPG. The PvP is fun but not perfect. The game before wasnt based for pvp, I like the 
 zones pvp but there are only 4 different pvp zones. The arena is more for planned fight like to 
 fight other SG. There is also bases raid witch is fun but sometime laggy.
  
  The Pve is more boring when you played two year doing the same mishs. But still with the new invention 
 system the salvage and the recipes make it more interesting. We also gain badges in pve / pvp witch 
 is someting fun to ern on you're higher lvl toon. There is probably much more thing in pve than 
 pvp but some prefer pvp to kick hero ass and ern reputation.
  
  (CoV) 5 different ATs , 61 power set , 10 power pools , 13 city zones , 50 lvls , more than 300 
 badges , 105 contact , more than 200 mishs and much more... Its just an Amazing game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: acountddd
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 5, 2006 9:55 pm PT
Review:  Single Player:
  N/A
  
  Multi-Player:
  If you're expecting a World of Warcraft-style game, you are mistaken, although it has the general 
 foundations of a MMORPG such as some kind of a leveling system and skill system, it is indeed very 
 different. The character creation part is very enjoyable as there are literally millions of looks 
 to choose from. The uniqueness of this game may appeal to some, such as the interesting loot system, 
 you don't pick it up, it just goes into your inventory. However there are only a few types of items 
 to pick up, there are no wearable items so items won't effect your look. This game depends solely 
 on what kind of a character you created in the beginning. The general community are friendly and 
 willing to help with quests etc, and the in-game support system is very effective, I reported a 
 glitch where a hostage wouldn't follow me and within five minutes a GM came and fixed the problem. 
 The new feature of creating your own base is very fun, but you will generally find yourself just 
 joining a guild already owning an expensive base. The quest system is a bit tedious. it is EXTRELEMY 
 repetitive and about every 1 out of 5 quests are unique, and even sometimes those unique ones are 
 repeated. This is probably what puts some players off. Overall this game is great and the gameplay 
 value is big, but the glitches and repetitivenes put me off this game.
  
  Misc:
  This game features some great ragdoll physics :D 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 4X6X9
Rating: 8.7
Date: Mar 5, 2006 1:38 pm PT
Review:  CoV lets you play as a villain. there are way more people to kill in this 1 cuz your a villain. 
 u can fight the bad guys, the super heroes, and the police. the missions do make you feel like 
 you a villain, robing banks, taking jewelers, blowing up stuff. its all good. mostly the only bad 
 thing is the powers. the powers are good like the summon robots, ninjas and that. but the other 
 powers are way 2 slow and takes to long to use it again. graphics aren't all that good but for 
 a MMO game im giving it a 8. the game isn't much hard if you dont know what your doing. getting 
 into party's is a really fun was to make friends and to boost you leveling by a lot. i just hope 
 that you can be over 50 level. cuz staying on 50 means you cant get every power. and thats not 
 fun. BUT! u can have over 8-10 ( i forgot ) characters in the 12 servers so that should do the 
 trick. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dapoochiman
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 5, 2006 7:43 am PT
Review:  This game is the most repetitive MMO I have ever played. When you're playing, sometimes you just 
 feel like asking "Isn't there anything else I can do besides kill monsters?" Truly, that's all 
 you're basically doing. You spend roughly 10-15 minutes trying to find yourself a group because 
 it's almost impossible to do any missions and gain any worthwhile experience on your own. After 
 that, you spend about half an hour to an hour playing a "mission" full of 200-300 enemies that 
 are all the same, maybe having to "kidnap" someone, in which case they'll just follow you around 
 to the exit, where they'll just say something like "Please don't hurt me!" and walk out the door.
 
  
  Sure, the game has great graphics and animations, not to mention cool powers and buildings and 
 stuff, but then again, what's so fun about flying if you're going to end up having to take some 
 sort of public transportation everywhere anyways? Yea, that's right. You have to take the public 
 transportation EVERYWHERE you go. Unless you feel like having to fly to the little door of admittance 
 to the next city and then to the next and the next in order to get to wherever you wanna go, which 
 takes forever. It truly takes the whole fun out of it. The battles are fun, but then they get repetitive, 
 and with repetitive battles and boredom later, comes the boredom of the game. I used to love this 
 game, but then I realized how little there was to do and just stopped playing it. 
  The PvP system is really crappy, since you can only do PvP in like 4 designated areas, and it's 
 just a bunch of people in basically a moshpit killing each other. It's really stupid. 
  So if you're considering buying this game, my suggestion is to have as much fun as you can with 
 it until you realize how boring it is. You'll get a good 40-200 hours on it at least. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Butterbong
Rating: 9.3
Date: Mar 4, 2006 9:39 pm PT
Review:  Well i bought this game trying to find a MMO to play. I played everything except COH and COV so 
 I picked up COV (cmon who wants to be good?) so i start playing and i love it so far.
  
  COMBAT: Combat some people would say is repetitive but I find it alot of fun, the combat is able 
 to stick to that super villain/super hero type combat (swipe, hit, blast, eye laser, hit, etc etc) 
 
  
  COMMUNITY: I havnt really gotten into the community yet, i havnt really been chatting much because 
 im somewhat of a loner but from what ive seen the community is... nice.
  
  over all its a must buy for people who are looking for a good MMO. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: legoloco
Rating: 9.2
Date: Mar 1, 2006 2:17 pm PT
Review:  This is a great game, a must buy. This is just like city of heroes but with some tweeks. Master 
 Minds are one of those tweeks. Master Minds are basicly some sort of corrupter (blaster) with the 
 abillity to summon a pet to help you with your battle, depending on wat pets you chose. Well anyway, 
 aside from Master Minds there are other tweeks like the costume designs. If you thought heroes 
 were customizable then wait till you see this! But the thing they didn't fix is the difficulty 
 for leveling! And the lag... not as much as SWG though. But the game is very good aside from lag 
 and lvling. There are enough missions in this game to keep you playing for a long time! To sum 
 that all up, good game, must buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Decoy123
Rating: 8.7
Date: Feb 24, 2006 8:29 pm PT
Review:  i like it but its not as great as city of heroes i think it will get better after the april expansion 
 comes through it should be a bit better but right now its an 8.7 which isnt bad but i give its 
 brother heroes a 9 right now there both great but definatly try out heroes first its got a better 
 feel to it, dont go to walmart or kmart or any where like that to get your game there still 50 
 bucks a pop, best buy i think has the collectors edition for 30$ bucks right now so go there to 
 get it its worth it 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BebopEdward
Rating: 8.3
Date: Feb 22, 2006 5:07 pm PT
Review:  COV is just like COH in the basic setup. as far as character classes (powers) , and the story line 
 and themes they are almost oposites. COV is not a expansion as im sure many gamers thought. it 
 is a completly seperate game with the same basic setup as COH but focuses more on the gamers who 
 want to be the evil or bad guy instead of the good guys. Unless your a huge comic book or super 
 hero fan i dont suggest buying both. buy one or the other depending on your playing style and who 
 you want to be. it is still just as good as the original and is still a great game. It basically 
 just gives people a better choice. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Redruler
Rating: 7.5
Date: Feb 20, 2006 8:16 am PT
Review:  First thing I want to say is: City of Villans is a good game. It builds on the City of Heroes game 
 in many ways and gives you more of that good stuff that made that game fun.
  
  But, City of Villans is just not different enough. Its like playing City of Heroes "Special Edition". 
 Some things have been streamlined, more content has been added, more costume choices, etc... but 
 basically its still the same.
  
  The character creator is still the best there is, but its kind of sad that making a toon is actually 
 more enjoyable than playing it. I played City of Heroes for a long time, and have many high lvl 
 toons... and this game just feels like more of the same. Sure a few graphic differences, but it 
 still feels like Been there Done that.
  
  Some of the powers have been rearanged which, yes, does give a touch of newness with the new possible 
 combinations, but the vast majority of the powersets (and pool powers) have stayed exactly the 
 same. 
  
  This "expansion" should have been released at launch so you had two sides to choose from, similar 
 to the Alliance and Horde from WoW. 
  
  This is a good game if you are still in love with City of Heroes, but if you didn't like that, 
 or if you are looking for something new (like me) , this game is not for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Flamingblade23
Rating: 9.8
Date: Feb 13, 2006 3:07 pm PT
Review:  I've played my fair share of MMOs. Three to be exact. And this is my favorite by far. The gameplay 
 is simple yet effective. The game also has a very good character creater to make sure you aren't 
 left looking like everyone else (*cough* FFXI* *cough*) . You can even set yourself apart from the 
 others by using enhancements, which power up your powers. The archetypes are all very fun (my current 
 favorite is the corruptor) so no matter which one you pick, you'll never be bored. Graphics are 
 slightly outdated, but other than that, the game is perfect. The sound is great, it actually make 
 you feel evil. This game was quite worth the $$ you have to pay every month. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: decalord1
Rating: 8.1
Date: Feb 10, 2006 3:33 pm PT
Review:  Bought the game with a few friends, since I loved the idea of being able to make my own, very customisable 
 villain. So, after installing, I sorted out an account etc. and went to character creation.
  
  I've never played CoH, i'll be honest, so the options I got to choose from were excellent! 
 I was practically falling off my chair with giddyness over the fact I could wear a cone-shaped 
 hat. 
  
  After catching my breath from the very well done creation process, I started the long (VERY long) 
 loading process, after which I was thrown into an overwhelmign enviroment.
  
  After recovering from this shock, I wiped my brow and fought on. I found my way around, although, 
 addmittedly, the memory is now very blurred, and got some quests done. The power animations are 
 fan-dabby-dosey and I nearly passed out as I watched my bolt blast that scum-of-the-earth away.
 
  
  Unfortunately, the graphics didn't blow me away, nor did the sound. 
  
  Furthermore the story was less than satisfactory in my opinion, and with such a brilliant idea, 
 I thought much more could have been done with this.
  
  all in all, a good, solid game, but not without its flaws. Lag and loading times NEED to be sorted 
 out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BLaZE1818
Rating: 8.8
Date: Feb 10, 2006 1:02 am PT
Review:  I have just played city of villains and i have played COH before and i must say COV is a unique 
 experience from COH but i dont really get the feeling im evil all the time aswell. IT is basically 
 COV with a bit evil side to it. Great game none the less. I would reccomend this game to anyone 
 who wishes to purchase a MMO and enjoys the feeling of being a hero or a villain. I have to say 
 my most important favourite of this MMO is the variety of classes and different skill types you 
 can get. Aswell as the many different combinations of your characters you can make it truley is 
 worth it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mg412
Rating: 8.6
Date: Feb 4, 2006 2:11 pm PT
Review:  City of Villains as u all no is the standalone sequel to City of Heroes. Most ppl would see sequel 
 and think it has to be bad but they would b rong. This game i s amazing and it plays in similar 
 ways with COH but it has its own unique gameplay as well. In my opinion it is easier to lvl because 
 sumtimes when u complete missions u recieve 500 or more xp which is great. Plus I have jsut heard 
 of a update which u can check out on gamespot or at www. cityofvillains. com they have new mayhem 
 missions where there will be destructable items! I highly recommend this to newcomers and veteran 
 city of heroes players 
  
  this GAME IS GREAT 
::::::

::::::
UserName: h2887
Rating: 5
Date: Jan 31, 2006 6:49 am PT
Review:  Ok, COV its a fun game if your into the whole modern super villian thing. Im a WoW player. Ive 
 been playing WoW for a while then i tryed CoV i think that its not worth it. I mean one thing i 
 dont like is that for each mission you have to go through some door and then u suddenly end up 
 somewhere after a loaing screen (TOOO MANY LOADING SCREENS!!!) . Another thing is that the game play 
 is way to easy to use, u can immediately finish a mission after you have completed it. I mean the 
 game it self is ok but they couldve done a better job with the actual game play. I think the only 
 cool thing about this game is being able to be evil. Personaly i think im going to stick with WoW 
 and maybe play this game once in a while 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Arcanefelix
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 30, 2006 11:08 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay: The gameplay is just amazing. No matter what class you are you will enjoy every single 
 part of it. You will never get tired. Another thing that this game pushes toward MMO's is that 
 it is very user-friendly. Like a lot of other MMO's the user interface is very confusing, and you 
 would take a long time to get used to it. But then in CoV you would know what you have to do next 
 instead of wondering what buttons to press. The tutorial starts you off and there you go... you're 
 ready. 
  
  Graphics: For a MMO with style like this i would say the graphics are good, but not impressive. 
 The devolopers maybe could've put some more time into it. But also it is very good for the style 
 of gaming it is pushing toward. The graphics for this game would be for your own opinion. You like 
 it? you like it, You don't? you just don't. 
  
  Sound: The sound is amazing for one. I've been playing WoW for a while now. The sound in that game 
 is impressive. But i feel that CoV really puts you into a role of a villain. The sound really emphasizes 
 what you are doing. An example would be when you level and the background music is really suitable 
 as well. 
  
  Value: 10 Full Marks. I say this because with the amazing gameplay and such good graphics, combined 
 with the sound all put into this game its just great. With the addition to having CoH for one price 
 as well. Instead of paying 15 for both, you pay 15 to paly CoV AND CoH. Just amazing! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: loghawk
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 28, 2006 3:51 pm PT
Review:  This in my opinion is one of the greatest mmos that has ever been created, that along with WoW. 
 You get to create your own villain with millions of selections for you costume, select your own 
 power pools [very own powers fire manipulation, etc] and for the fun of it you get to be a villain. 
 There are tons, i mean tons of missions you and your team can dominate, and get lots of exoerience 
 from. You get many many powers too, once you gain leves the more powerful your villain gets, and 
 you gain many powers to help aid destroying the heroes. There are also PvP zones in which you can 
 fight alongside other villains against the heroes. There are missions in these PvP zones where once 
 you complete them you can gain aid to your fellow villains. This game is alot like the City of Heroes 
 feel, but it has many more in game things you have to find out for yourself that are much different 
 than city of heroes. On certain servers, it can be very laggy, but you have to remember this game 
 still is sort of new, and they havent worked all the bugs out yet. It is definately recomended for 
 any mmo players that want a break from the medevil based mmos. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ShadowHawk
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jan 27, 2006 9:06 pm PT
Review:  I really like this game, but for a game to come out on its own, I think its a bit too City of Heroes. 
 About 3/4s of the powers are the exact same from City of Heroes. I think they could have edited 
 the animations atleast for all the powers if they weren't going to change them. Now for classes 
 like Brute, I love the rage bar. Dominators are also cool with being able to turn there powers 
 into overdrive. I would like to see more missions where a PLAYER hero can bust in on your mission 
 and try and get you to fail, but at the same time, defeating him makes him fail. I think it would 
 be an awesome twist on the game. If you are a die hard fan of City of Heroes, your not wasting 
 your money picking this up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Squids-Ahoy
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jan 24, 2006 11:11 am PT
Review:  City of Heroes was released over a year ago, giving players the ability to adopt a persona of a 
 superhero fighting crime. Among the problems of minimalist gameplay and grueling grinds, there 
 were no dastardly villains with plots to foil, or attacks on Superhero bases by fiendish madmen. 
 No longer are the heroes safe from the ire of their Villainous counter parts, as City of Villains 
 offers the opportunities and adventures that completes the Cities package, and offers a unique 
 experience thats both engrossing and impressive. 
  
  City of Villains is, of course, all about the Villains. The theme is pretty well played, as the 
 characters, missions, and story all involve dastardly deeds and power struggles among the varying 
 factions all wanting the title of "baddest ass". Everything feels new and fresh, and makes the 
 experience very different from City of Heroes.
  
  The character creation process is still as unique and in depth as ever, and remains the best of 
 any game I've played to date. Size, gender, face, chest, legs, glasses, hats, the list goes on 
 and on, and guarantees that no two people will ever look alike unless that is the intention. 
 
  
  The new classes are as follows; Brutes, Corruptors, Masterminds, Dominators, and Stalkers. Brutes 
 are the strong men of the group, building up a rage bar that adds to the damage as they deal and 
 take hits. Corruptors are the long-range damage and buff/debuff/healer group. Dominators control 
 groups of people through their special powers. Stalkers are basically Rogues, turning invisible 
 and dealing amazing amounts of damage. The Masterminds use minions to do their fighting for them, 
 wrapping up the Villains repertoire. 
  
  Once you're character has been created, you go through a short tutorial against the backdrop of 
 a prison break, and then you're out in the world, doing villainous deeds for whomever you please. 
 
  
  The missions in City of Villains do a decent job of making you feel evil, with the robbing of banks, 
 kidnapping some poor guy, stealing items that you want, or beating up other people you don't particularly 
 like. While they aren't particularly varied, and the tile sets are disturbingly similar, the missions 
 are fun, quick, and don't take 3 hours with a full group of people to do. In fact, thats one of 
 the biggest draws of City of Villains; you can solo 90 percent of the missions you get. No waiting 
 for somebody to join you, no frustration when somebody has to go eat, just progress. 
  
  Another anticipated addition to the Cities gameplay is Player versus Player environments. These 
 are generally standard run of the mill killing sprees, but with a twist; heroes and villains can 
 perform missions in the areas to increase the damage or defense bonuses or penalties for themselves 
 and against their foes. This adds a back and forth element that draws people in for hours, and 
 is exciting to play with a team.
  
  The game, to be blunt, is a system hog, and many people are going to have trouble running it. The 
 more powerful engine used by City of Villains adds incredible bloom effects and character models, 
 and should you have the capability, these are amazing to look at as you fly high above the landscape. 
 
  
  The bleeps and bloops are pretty standard, and are forgettable for the most part.
  
  This game adds a great deal of content for both the City of Heroes fan as well as the Newcomer 
 Villain wanting to try out his hand at dastardly deeds. No matter your category, whether you enjoy 
 a good mmorpg or are looking to test your digital villainy, you should look no further than City 
 of Villains.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: darkknighthsd
Rating: 3.4
Date: Jan 22, 2006 10:37 am PT
Review:  Game has lots of bugs, they came out with a game that wasn`t done, only 8 zones and highest lvl 
 is 40. I think they should of waited and finished the game and got some of the big bugs out before 
 they put it on live servers. i give this game a 3 due to lots and lots of bugs, they havent done 
 any big improvements sence the games release in oct. alot of the same bugs are still there from 
 the COV part. after almost 3 years they should have fixed alot of these bugs. Only thing game has 
 is great eye candy, that doesnt make a game good, for 15 dollars a month they should fix the bugs. 
 if ya like a buggy unfinished game then this is your game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mattock5656
Rating: 5.3
Date: Jan 14, 2006 12:57 pm PT
Review:  I went to ebgames, all exicted ready to go pick up a game and play it for many hours. The guy up 
 at ebgames told me that City of Villains is a game you should play.
  
  So, I thought what the heck. I came home installed the game and started playing. The game was fun 
 for 1 hour, you start out by breaking of prison, then after that it lets you loose in the mercy 
 island.
  
  I found that game really boring and repetive, all you do it do missions over and over, I swear 
 did like 20 snake missions, and I got sick of it. Im saying the game is patheic but its just boring 
 and too easy.
  
  The game is for people who are new to MMO's because is too easy. I recommend not playing this game, 
 and it is sure not worth 15 dollars a month, spend your money esle where. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Monkeymantjg
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 11, 2006 4:16 pm PT
Review:  If I was evil I would want to do things like rob a bank ( when I want to ) , kidnap officials ( 
 when I want to ) , destroy things like power grids ( when I want to ) , build a base ( where I want 
 to ) , and general not have to ask people for mission but make missions I want to do at the time 
 I so choose to do them and in a manner in which I can be free to create Chaos. ( when I want to 
 ) . 
  
  This game does have some cool parts and which make for a wonderful gaming experience. I play this 
 game daily but as my month of gaming is nearing an end I ask myself can I get another 2 months 
 of enjoyment out of this game or would one more month be it and then move on to another entertainment 
 piece. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Inuyashabosk
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 11, 2006 7:58 am PT
Review:  I loved this game after i first heard about it here on Gamespot.
  
  The game had awesome Graphics
  And it allowes you to play as a Villain.
  
  first i was planning 
 to buy City of Heroes but i didnt ( bought WoW instead)
  but it turned out that i would buy City of Villains instead.. and it was worth it.
  
  Its plain 
 fun.. and its adictive aswell.
  I like the Music tracks and the sound effects.
  
  but the game has some flaws.
  
  The first one.. some of the games Missions can be very hard 
 to do alone.
  And the games missions can be pretty Repeative.
  
  But other then that, Great game with fun PvP.
  Comes highly recomended 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CountDrugular
Rating: 3
Date: Jan 11, 2006 6:55 am PT
Review:  I played this game for the trial month and found it seriously lacking in content and game play 
 this game got so boring the only exciting part of it was character creation even that became limited 
 due to something called Interlectual property so that ment playing your favorite Villian was out 
 of the question and you soon found your self striped of your costume and name if you played anything 
 like your favorite comic , i mean who reads EULA argeements anyway we just want to play the damn 
 game is all. 
  Getting back to the game play aspect WHAT game play? constantly doing missions that have no meaning 
 to get some pointless badge. I found myself running through half these missions as they were so 
 boring, easy and unchanging even the story arched missions were like this ,the game was only half 
 interesting when you joined a Super Group or guild for anyone else who plays real MMOs, Gaining 
 prestige for your group entitles them to build things for the Super groups base, but this is not 
 enough to keep someone interested for any length on online games. This game was very Vague and 
 felt like it needed more much like Guild wars did tho i liked GuildWars alot better then this game 
 and atleast itwas free.
  As for skills in COV what skills? an MMO without skills this made the game even more boring as 
 there was nothing else to do other then pointless MISSIONS.
  The only thing that makes this game tolerable is the fact its the Only super hero/villian MMO at 
 the moment so if your really hanging to play a Hero or Villian i'd say go for it if your got money 
 to waste, but to any real gamer out there Don't buy this you will be soarly dissapointed its seriously 
 not worth the money considering much better MMOs on the market like UO, EQ and WOW to name a few.
 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: serial007
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jan 10, 2006 8:12 am PT
Review:  What can I say about City of Villains? Same City of Heroes goodness in an all new Villain package.
 
  
  The game basically take City of Heroes, turns it on its side and let you been a villain. You start 
 out the game breaking out of jail and from there your career as a villain begins. It is basically 
 the same as COH but from a Villain stand point. This is not so much of a new game but more as an 
 expansions pack for CoH.
  
  The mission and in door maps will be very similar to those of you that have played CoH except for 
 the new bank robbing and kidnapping mission. Also the contact system has been changed a bit letting 
 you get missions from the news paper. 
  
  The city in villains looks really beat up and dirty making it difficult to navigate with you a 
 movement power. So far I don't know why any one in CoV would want Super Speed as there are really 
 no straight roads any where. There is a new base build and raids added but as of this review I 
 haven't gotten to it yet. 
  
  AS the arc types seem to be just supped up changed CoH arc types except for the master mind which 
 lets you have an army of minions to do you bidding. Overall a good improvement on the CoH franchise 
 but nothing to knock it out of the park.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gmex
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jan 8, 2006 9:10 pm PT
Review:  Unlike City of Heroes this game first puts you in a tutorial where you're breaking out of prison 
 and escaping to mercy. Where you'll meet contacts and more contacts going through the rogue isles, 
 and doing mission after mission. The good thing is these missions never get boring especially when 
 you do them with a team.
  
  The sound is incredible lots of variety from swooping, slashing, and so on. You'll just plain out 
 love the immersive sound this game has.
  
  The gameplay is absolutely wonderful this mmorpg has so much in it. It's just wonderful how much 
 you'll be playing this game so it makes sense that the gameplay plays a big role.
  
  The graphics are simply astounding.
  
  Overall - although this game makes you feel like you're 
 doing more good then evil. Get this game no matter what! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lumpy66
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jan 6, 2006 11:10 am PT
Review:  I've played City of Heroes for about a year and really like it. I was eagerly awaiting City of 
 Villains, but so far I've been quite disappointed with it. I like the design of the game, but two 
 months after its release it's still too buggy.
  
  One of its most hyped new features, bases, are nowhere near reliable enough to be enjoyable. You'll 
 also need a Super Group (or Villain Group/Guild) of about ten people playing constantly for a period 
 of several months to be able to afford a decent pvp-able base (assuming your base items don't mysteriously 
 disappear, and good luck getting help from support if they do) .
  
  The in game support in CoH used to be excellent, with a response time of around five minutes. In 
 CoV you might get a response in 15-20 minutes, or it might take a few days. I think this is indicative 
 of the amount of bugs in the game which is obviously keeping the support staff overworked.
  
  It's unreasonable to expect any software product to be bug-free, but the reliability of CoV, 
 or lack thereof, is too much for me to continue playing it any longer. I was hoping that the developers 
 would have most of the issues fixed after a month or so, but the game has become unplayable for 
 me.
  
  I know there's enormous pressure on developers to meet publishing deadlines, but this game needs 
 some serious work before it can reach its true potential. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: yui437
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jan 5, 2006 12:00 am PT
Review:  I'll say this outright: I've not dabbled too much in the world of MMO gaming. My first experience 
 was Phantasy Star Online on Sega's ill-fated Dreamcast. I loved that game, made a few friends too. 
 Felt like a thriving community. I stopped playing when Version 2 hit teh shelves and the game become 
 a monthly-fee game.
  
  My second and only other foray into the genre was Ragnorok Online, at the behest of some real life 
 friends. Initially, I thought it was quaint, but I really couldn't get into the grind for experience 
 to gain more and more levels. It's always the grind which gets me. Once I hit a certain level, 
 it'll take hours to get to the next, sometimes agonzing through deaths and walking all the way 
 back to where my body lies.
  
  So I saw City of Villains offering an open slot for the Beta to Complete members. I thought I'd 
 hop on it, give this thing a shot. And boy, what a shot.
  
  I first chose to be a Brute, but I inadvertently changed the difficulty to it's highest and died 
 one too many times at lvl 6. I changed to a robot Mastermind and I've been hooked ever since. It 
 was novel to control robotic minions at my every command. It was down right thrilling to get my 
 flying powers and woosh through the air like Superman. While I was doing this, I screamed allowed 
 "I'm SUPERMAN! AN EVIL SUPERMAN!"
  
  My highest level character is a 35 Mastermind with robots, capes and auras. The quests are fun, 
 especially so with good friends, and I've made so many on the game. Partying is just great, especially 
 when everyone in your party knows what to do. I love the whole atmosphere of the game.
  
  One of the things that ended up throwing me off is the reverse axis camera. I mean, it works great 
 for the game. But I've played it so much, I go to Call of Duty 2 and I have trouble aiming, the 
 camera feels way too loose, and all that good stuff. I've become obsessed with CoV.
  
  The lvling grind hasn't had such a bearing on me. I think this is due to the experience meter in 
 the top right of the screen as well as partying with the same people for hours upon hours. It really 
 is just great.
  
  Now, some people might not agree with me. I simply fell for he atmosphere and original world that 
 NCSoft has created. I mean that it's not based on any existing franchise or series. I'm talking 
 about both City of Heroes and Villains.
  
  This game isn't without it's problem. At lower levels, traveling is more of a hassle than anyhing 
 else. At first you only get to run. Then you can run fast, leap over semi-high buildings, fly slowly, 
 or teleport. All these end up sucking up your endurance like mad, the game's version of MP, think 
 of an all-purpose meter that combines the magic meter and endurance meters from Diablo II. There's 
 so much choice in the game to craft your own unique character, from a very comprehensive character 
 design system to the plethora of powers you can choose from.
  
  There are six character archetypes, or classes, to choose from, which range from strictly melee 
 (Brutes) , strictly ranged (Corrupters) , a more "magic" based class (Dominators) , assassins (Stalkers) , 
 and Masterminds, who simply command minions, as mentioned before. Once chosen, you get to choose 
 a primary power set and a secondary power set, each from different pools. From there you choose 
 specific powers, opening up chances for a third class of power sets as you level up.
  
  Probably the coolest portion of the chracter creation is actually creating you character. The body 
 dimensions system is relatively basic, but you can tweak your character's facial dimensions all 
 you want. Choose hairstyles, hats, costumes, hoods, almost everything under the sky and then some. 
 At 20, 30, and 40, you can create more costumes to give your character more flair. Feel like your 
 character has had enough time under a full suit of body armor and helmet? Make a swimsuit suit 
 so they can get a tan. The sky really is the limit.
  
  If anything, I really don't enjoy the PvP portion all too much. It's probably due to the fact that 
 I can't handle it. Everything simply moves too fast and I'm just not suited. Others may be, but 
 it's not for me.
  
  I simply love this game, which will give lots of bias, also due to the I've not playing many MMORPGs 
 at all. If you've always wanted to be a superhero/villain, then this is the only way to go.
  
  Good villainy-ing! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ChunkyMilky
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jan 4, 2006 12:51 pm PT
Review:  In 2005 Play NC's new installment ''City of Villains'' however even though it might be a little 
 of a duplicate to another Play NC's installment ''City of Heroes'' The background of COV is way 
 different from COH. In the beggining you have your basic powers and you start in some kind of breakout. And 
 you do missions for contacts. Then as you start getting to a point of level you get more and more 
 powers. But although there's somethings that I dont like about COV, We'll i doubt it that my PC is 
 laggy but COV is alittle to laggy because when they released COV alot of people moved to COV. This 
 is practicly the only things i find that's bad about COV.
  For all you MMORPG lovers get this game and you'll understand why i said to get it in the first 
 place. :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ninjacat11
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jan 3, 2006 1:26 pm PT
Review:  Admit it. You want to be naughty. You want to blow stuff up. You want to steal stuff. You want 
 to rule the world. But you don't want to be considered a freak. That's okay because City of Villians 
 lets you interact with and fling the noses of your megalomanaical comrades. And though it might 
 not replace your copy of World of Warcraft, City of Villians still has a hefty community already, 
 despite being only a few months old, and enough to keep you hooked.
  
  First, the real big flaw: Thanks to the new effects NCsoft is dishing up, the frame rate, even 
 when you turn everything down, is horrifyingly slow on ATI cards (which is what I as well as a 
 lot of other people use) . The result is one of the best slideshows ever.
  
  But, despite this crippling flaw, COV is still a great game. I've never played any MMO ever before 
 this, so there was the understandably steep learning curve and momentary eye gouging out.
  
  And COV is still really well put together, maybe a bit too much. So, if you love the series, 
 MMOs, or superheroes, you owe it to yourself to buy this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tarzyz
Rating: 7.9
Date: Jan 2, 2006 12:04 pm PT
Review:  City of Villains is a solid MMORPG. With a faily large playerbase, so it won't feel like an empty 
 world like many MMORPG's suffer these times of World of WarCraft.
  
  To the most important, gameplay. The CoV gameplay is very much the same as CoH, even tough all 
 the archtypes are diffrient. However the archtypes are much like the types in CoH just reversed. 
 i. e instead of tanker, wich primary is defensive powers and offensive as secondary, you know have 
 "Brute" wich primary is offensive and secondary is defensive.
  On paper they look much the same, but it very diffrient gameplay, as Brute you solo much easier 
 than a tank, specially in the early levels.
  
  But it is not just reversed class'es, we have a new truely new archtype called MasterMind.
  
 
  The mastermind IS the class to all the MMORPG pet lovers, we have seen those classes before in 
 older MMORPG's such as the Necromancer in EverQuest, Bonedancer in Dark age of Camelot and Warlock/Hunter 
 in World of WarCraft.
  
  If you love to have a pet do the work for you, then the mastermind is the class. Myself im a huge 
 pet-gamer, so i was very thrilled to play a MM.
  
  You can choose between serval pet types includeing: Robots, Undead, Ninja and Mercenaries. All 
 with thier advantages and disadvantages.
  
  In most MMORPG's pet classes get 1 pet and maybe 1 tempoary if they are lucky, but in CoV you can 
 have up to wooping 8 pets if you play a Undead/Dark powerset. The dark secondary benefits for an 
 additonal pet at level 40, so it feels like you have your own group with you all the time, and 
 therefor MM's solo VERY well.
  
  However with such a big group as a solo Mastermind, you can imageing the chaos if 3,4, 5 even 6 
 or 7 masterminds team up. and thats the MM's weakness. grouping. THey are not wanted in groups 
 because they cause lag and block doorways. Unfourtanly CoV mission maps are tight indoor/cave maps 
 and dosnt fit MM at all.
  
  However if you do sit back and watch your pets do all the work i would recommend CoV to you allready, 
 it will be well worth it.
  
  And finally i will mention the great sound design of the powers in CoV/CoH, the great sound and 
 flashy graphics makes the combat in this game the most fun in any MMORPG out there. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SinfulSpikey
Rating: 4
Date: Dec 28, 2005 11:46 pm PT
Review:  I loved City of Heroes when it came out, and when I heard about City of Villains I just couldn't 
 wait! I love to play the bad guy, but it really didn't feel like I was. In fact, it felt like the 
 exact opposite. Why is my vile hell spawn beating down gang bangers and trying to keep the island 
 safe from snakes? Why can't I hit a civilian? When do I actually get to do some villainy things? 
 Missions where I could actually rob banks or come into contact with super heroes seemed few and 
 far between and the PvP just didn't cut it for me. I'm sorry, but City of Villains is not. City 
 of Anti-Heroes is what the game should've been named.
  
  City of Villains plays exactly like City of Heroes to a fault. In fact, it'd be easy to mistake 
 the two games.
  
  The graphics remain largely unchanged. A few clothing options added, sure, but that's it. The graphics 
 are, unfortunately, in dire need of an upgrade. They've been outdated since slightly before City 
 of Heroes came out, for Christ's sake!
  
  As for customization... there isn't any. For villains, at least. The bulk of the customization 
 is still City of Heroes clothing items. Only about 2/8ths of the selection is actually for villains, 
 and those 2/8ths are widely over used by the player base as it is. Don't be surprised to see clones 
 of yourself.
  
  All in all, I was gravely disappointed by this game. With any luck, Cryptic will address these 
 issues and create a much more authentic villain feel. I don't have my hopes up, though. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SZeroC
Rating: 9.7
Date: Dec 18, 2005 11:45 am PT
Review:  Everyone fantasizes about being a spandex-clad hero. Jumping from rooftop to rooftop, your cape 
 flapping in the wind -- we can't think of any childhood fantasy more satisfying. Well, except for 
 that of being a murderous, bloodthirsty villain. In line with the current craze of "badass" entertainment 
 (GTA et al) , City of Villains (CoV) was a no-brainer. The companion game to the wildly successful 
 City of Heroes (CoH) , CoV lets you do one thing and it does it well: it lets you create your own 
 megalomaniac to wreak havoc online with thousands of other like-minded comic geeks.
  
  We use the word companion instead of expansion because you don't need CoH to play. But if you have 
 both, the two games install seamlessly together. And your monthly fee (just under $15) lets you 
 play both. Newbies looking to take a plunge can buy both; CoH's MSRP is now $29.99.
  
  The most enchanting feature of CoV, just like CoH, is creating your baddy. But it's also one of 
 the most frustrating. As we've already played countless hours of CoH, there aren't enough options 
 in CoV that make it all that much different. Sure, the archetypes of CoH have been given different 
 names, and there's even a new class called Masterminds (that replaced Defenders) that uses pets 
 such as zombies and ninjas, but many of the powers are just pulled from CoH. Scrappers became assassin-like 
 Stalkers, Controllers became Dominators, Blasters became Corruptors, and Tankers became Brutes. 
 There are new powers all around, but in our opinion, just not enough. And if you've played multiple 
 toons in CoH, then you're already bored with most of them.
  
  The costume creation in CoV is just as impressive as it was in CoH, but more "Hot Topic," if you 
 will: skull belts, barbwire, tattoos, equine legs, demon horns, and, of course, top hats.
  
  Once you create your character, you're off to begin your career in the tutorial. This one's 
 a prison break, natch, and unfortunately, you can't skip it (like in CoH) . After that, you're off 
 to the Rogue Isles, a chain of decrepit islands - ala Escape from New York - run by Arachnos, the 
 kingpin of the CoH universe. You begin running low-level errands for Arachnos and his subordinates 
 as you slowly work your way up his evil corporate ladder. The early missions seem to be the same 
 for any character you create, unlike in CoH, where your origin makes more of a difference as to 
 what story arch you start with. After you hit level 10, you can start your own Super Group, create 
 your own lair, raid others, and outfit your base with trinkets you've collected from your exploits, 
 some giving members special boosts and powers. And yes, you can do battle with CoH players in special 
 PvP zones that can be quite satisfying. Take that, Mr. Woolvereen.
  
  CoV has all the faults of its twin: repetitive and sometimes shallow gameplay. One instanced mission 
 after another, with the plot taking an unnecessary back seat. But even when keeping with the standards 
 that were set in CoH, it's not hard to feel that something else is missing. If you're really a 
 villain, can't you be free of society's restraints? Why can't you attack civilians at will? Betray 
 your contacts? Attack other villains? Sometimes you forget you're playing a bad guy, even when 
 you're robbing a bank.
  
  CoH subscribers will salivate at the opportunity to spice up their addiction, but new players should 
 play CoH first for a more fulfilling experience. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bigfatbaby
Rating: 8.8
Date: Dec 14, 2005 2:46 pm PT
Review:  City of Villains is an Expansion to City of Heroes. It is the same game as CoH, save for some extra 
 details that make the game a bit more challenging and a lot more fun. The Character Creation screen 
 is much better than CoH, as well as the Archetype (Brute, Corruptor, Dominator, Mastermind and 
 Stalker) you can create. For Example most ATs have an unique power that separates them from those 
 in CoH, and it makes it a bit more fun, like a Brute has a fury bar (a lot like the Hulk in Marvel 
 Comics) where the longer he is in battle the stronger he becomes. Or a Stalker who lives in the 
 shadows (Like a Ninja) and causes more damage when hidden. CoV also introduces Supergroup bases, 
 where you can create and completely design your own base depending on how much prestige (SG money) 
 you earn. There is also a small crafting system that helps to create items for your base, you get 
 loot or Salvage that can be combined to make other items, and those into other items that can eventually 
 be use to craft base items. Now for the downside, CoH and CoV play exactly alike, there is no variety 
 in the missions you do, they are both the same just the names are different. For Example in CoH 
 is Rescue and in CoV is kidnap, and this has a habit of making the game repetitive. If you are 
 new to both game or a fanboy this game can be a breath of fresh air within MMROPGs, if you are 
 a season veteran or an expert unless you have a true love for the game and its concept, you can 
 get tired of it quickly. But I definitely recommend it to anyone, especially if you are a fanboy. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: coldfyre_99
Rating: 8.3
Date: Dec 14, 2005 11:49 am PT
Review:  That's right, now you too can indulge your inner butt hole. First of all, if you have tried, and 
 didnt like CoH, you might want to take a pass on this one. The game is essentiall CoH in a new 
 set of locations. That said, it is much more pleasing to get a mission that involves taking someone 
 out because they were trash talking you, or kidnapping someone. The Gameplay on this bad boy was 
 good, not for totally hard core players, and indeed some might be turned off by its simplicity, 
 but I enjoyed the fact I could log in for a hour and feel like I got something done in my play 
 time. Graphics, not the best, but had a great cartoony feel to them. Same with the sounds. Value 
 is great, if you already have a CoH account you dont pay a monthly charge for CoV. All in all, 
 I enjoy the game, and it will be keeping me busy for many months. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hayabusa2004
Rating: 5.5
Date: Dec 13, 2005 11:10 am PT
Review:  When City of Heroes came out in 2004, players were thrown into the great city known as Paragon. 
 The city needed heroes after an alien invasion- it was up to you! City of Heroes offered an incredible 
 character creator and fun gameplay, but eventually it felt tedious and boring. It also lacked things 
 such as PVP, but with a promise by NCSoft to make City of Villains, it kept the hardcore fans happy.
 
  
  Now in late 2005 they finally released the first expansion/stand-alone; City of Villains. City 
 of Villains offers the same great character creation, but with an evil touch to it. The game itself 
 does not offer many new character types (or archetypes) except the pet summoning mastermind. City 
 of Villains feels cool at first, the evil music playing, the evil looking starting areas and the 
 fact you break out of prison for your tutorial is very cool. But the fact remains, City of Villains 
 suffers the same drawbacks as City of Heroes did- eventually the gameplay gets very boring and 
 there's really nothing driving you to reach the max level except different powers. 
  
  Unlike most MMO's, you really don't get to change your character that much. Once you reach the 
 20th level you get a new costume, and so on with every 10 levels you gain. Sure you get a cape 
 eventually and an 'aura' but you're not really changing how you look. It's not like you get a new 
 sword, or a new chest plate when you reach a certain level, you're pretty much stuck with the same 
 look the majority of the time. And the fact that there are no items you really need to get - besides 
 the enhancements it's really not worth playing that long. There is however one saving grace, the 
 fact that it's a stand-alone game, but if you also play City of Heroes you won't have to pay any 
 extra amount!
  
  So unless you're a huge fan of City of Heroes, you may want to pass on this one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: demonphoenix123
Rating: 9.3
Date: Dec 12, 2005 12:23 pm PT
Review:  good game
  boring after while
  
  overall good
  
  o. k! o. k! o. k! o. k! o. k! o. k! o. k! o. k! o. k! o. k! o. k! o. k! o. k! o. k! o. k! o. k! o. k! o. k! o. k! 
 o. k! o. k! o. k! o. k! o. k! o. k! o. k! o. k! o. k! o. k! o. k! o. k! o. k! o. k! o. k! o. k! o. k! o. k! o. k! 
 o. k! o. k! o. k! o. k! o. k! o. k! o. k! o. k! o. k! o. k! o. k! o. k! o. k! o. k! o. k! o. k! o. k! o. k! o. k! 
 o. k! o. k! o. k! o. k! o. k! o. k! o. k! o. k! o. k! o. k! o. k! o. k! o. k! o. k! o. k! o. k! o. k! o. k! o. k! 
 o. k! o. k! o. k! o. k! o. k! o. k! o. k! o. k! o. k! o. k! o. k! o. k! o. k! o. k! o. k! o. k! o. k! o. k! o. k! 
 o. k! o. k! o. k! o. k! o. k! o. k! o. k! o. k! o. k! o. k! o. k! o. k! o. k! o. k! o. k! o. k! o. k! o. k! o. k! 
 o. k! o. k! o. k! o. k! o. k! o. k! o. k! o. k! o. k! o. k! o. k! o. k! o. k! o. k! o. k! o. k! o. k! o. k! o. k! 
 o. k! o. k! o. k! o. k! o. k! o. k! o. k! o. k! o. k! o. k! o. k! o. k! o. k! o. k! o. k! o. k! o. k! o. k! o. k! 
 o. k! o. k! o. k! o. k! o. k! o. k! o. k! o. k! o. k! o. k! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cdn_bacon
Rating: 7.3
Date: Dec 12, 2005 9:11 am PT
Review:  I decided to retire from the world of WoW and jump into something new and different. After lots 
 of researched City of Villains seemed to be the game for me. So I picked it up one day and after 
 exchanging it twice due to faulty disks I finally got it installed and running. 
  
  The first thing you do in any MMO is character creation and CoV does this better than any I have 
 seen. The costumes you can create are unreal. You can make any villain under the sun with millions 
 of possibilities. Once this is out of the way you jump into training and have to escape from a 
 jail. It really just shows you the basics of the gameplay. 
  
  Once thats over with you are left on your own in the city to fight the good guys and other baddies. 
 The quest range from killing x amount of this baddy to go ing out and robbing a bank. The missions 
 are part of the initial appeal, they tend to be a bit different then other MMOs out there. While 
 in a mission on CoV it plays like Guild Wars, and you are the only one in the zone at the time. 
 Kinda dissappointing to pay per month for this and get the same thing as a game you can play for 
 free. 
  
  The gameplay in CoV is very simple and gts very boring after a bit. I loved this game for the first 
 20 hours or so, but seeing the same quests and the same level design repeat every time just killed 
 it for me. The newspaper feature allows you to scan the headlines of the paper and pull quests 
 out of it. The first time I got to do this (once you hit port oaks lvl 8 or so) , there where 3 
 quests available and all of them were kidnapping. It seems you kidnap a lot of people in this game. 
 All you do is enter a building, which looks like all the others (layout, skins, etc) work your 
 way to the top floor and find the girl and thats it. 
  
  If you are looking at a game that plays a different from WoW, then I would suggest getting Guild 
 Wars instead, not only is it the same as CoV, just a different setting, but it has fre online play. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Killerjoe17
Rating: 8.2
Date: Dec 10, 2005 1:36 pm PT
Review:  has been over a year since my initial report on the activities of Arachnos. I am putting forward, 
 for the Federal Bureau of Superpowered Affairs, the following information with respect to the super-powered 
 villain known as Ghost Widow. 
  
  The following report is the first in a series and is intended to set forth, in general terms, the 
 threat level presented by the archvillains in Arachnos. 
  
  Before beginning observation of the subject I was able to obtain some Arachnos files detailing 
 her past. Before her origin event her name was Belladonna Vetrano. She was an Arachnos Night Widow. 
 
  
  Night Widows are trained in the arts of stealth, infiltration, and disguise. They spend most of 
 their time in civilian clothes and assumed identities, ferreting out secrets or blackmailing business 
 leaders into cooperating with Arachnos's designs. If assigned a mission that involves combat, the 
 Night Widow has discretion to form a strike team comprised of other Arachnos forces. It was on 
 such a mission in 1989 that Vetrano was killed. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: dans29
Rating: 9.6
Date: Dec 5, 2005 2:09 pm PT
Review:  I am a city of heroes veteran and find this game about the same. Most of the powers look and feel 
 the same and most of the missions and game maps are about the same with different verbs. There 
 are alot of new costume options but not as many as you would hope for a sequel. One nice touch 
 are the bases. You need to have city of villains installed to have this in CoH. One bad thing is 
 if your in a VG to make a base and add stuff into it you need to be a leader which you wont get 
 promoted unless your friends with them in most cases so all you do is watch. One other nice feature 
 is the ability to go into Player versus Player zones where you can duke it out with other real 
 hereos. You will spend countless hours playing this game and it is the only MMORPG that i can recommend 
 besides CoH. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: alkalinetrio000
Rating: 8.9
Date: Dec 5, 2005 8:10 am PT
Review:  I had played City Of Heroes for months before the release of City Of Villains. The massive improvement 
 to the game since the release of COV has made the whole game feel new again. Now if you hated COH 
 this probably wont change your mind but if you only sort of liked it or like it and dropped it 
 now is the time to come back! COV on its own is highly addictive and over the top fun. Instead 
 of just copying the archetypes from COH (such as Blasters, Scrappers, etc) the Cryptic team made 
 all new archetypes that blend some aspects from the COH archetypes with all new powers. This will 
 make the game totally fresh for long time or returning players. There is a wider range of mission 
 types and (thankfully) mission interiors. Players new to COH/COV and maybe new to MMO all together 
 will find the interface easy to understand and the learning curve very forgiving. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jgt909
Rating: 6.3
Date: Dec 1, 2005 2:25 am PT
Review:  If you like CoH you will like CoV, they are essentially exactly the same with a few new costume 
 changes.
  
  Beware though if you use an ATI card, as changes made to the graphics engine have crippled the 
 game. Developers have admitted that they've identified the problems, and have absolutely no plans 
 to fix the issue. They are are blaming the issue on ATI and suggesting that we try new ATI drivers 
 that aren't out yet.
  
  Basically the developers decided to add features like bloom and use 2.0 shaders, but they implemented 
 the features so poorly that you can expect to get single digit frame rates on an ATI card (literally 
 ANY ATI card) in both indoor and outdoor missions. Even setting all of the settings to their lowest 
 values will keep your FPS in CoV hovering between 8-10, no matter what your system specs are (although 
 you can get up to around 12-13fps right now in standard CoH zones) . 
  
  Aside from the new technical problems introduced by the engine overhaul the game is more of the 
 same -- which isn't a bad thing if you enjoyed the game before they broke it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jubino
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 30, 2005 3:56 pm PT
Review:  I think this game could be a little bit better, but over all not bad. I feel pretty much the same 
 way about this game as I do Heroes. Needs more super powers. I'm actually a lil disappointed in 
 the game in that aspect because, while all the archetypes are brand new, most of the moves are 
 just recycled from City of Heroes. I thought that with the time given that more powers and things 
 could've been added. I don't think that's really asking too terribly much, considering how in depth 
 other MMORPG can be with magic and such. I don't want to say I was disappointed in the character 
 creation, far from it, but once again I think more content could've been added. Once again a lot 
 of it was recycled from City of Heroes. All in all the game is better than City of Heroes, but 
 if you already own it, you might as well keep playing Heroes because you're not going to get a 
 whole lot more for the $50 price tag. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bulldawg2525
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 27, 2005 10:58 am PT
Review:  Really good game but I would not pay a subscription fee for this. Definitely not, the graphics 
 are good, but they definitely could be better. The music........ omg keep your volume off. Too bad 
 you can't rent this game, buy it only if you liked city of heroes only. Im telling you really this 
 game may be addictive, but you have to be that type of person who can not care about the details, 
 but only play the game because it is an addictive game and its fun.
  ALL I HAVE TO SAY, RETURNED MINE, THE ONLINE IS SO LAGGY, SO YOUR CHOICE IF YOU BUY. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: WarWolf95
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 27, 2005 8:20 am PT
Review:  I have played City of Heroes and gotten exasperated because there were only 2 damaging types. To 
 be a controller was impossible because there was noone to team with. That all changed with City 
 of Villains. All character tyes were equal and there were thousands of people. It was fun. You 
 got to kill heroes and the missions actually had variety and there were more enemy types at the 
 beginning of the game. At lv 1 there are 5 types of enemies to fight each one with different powers. 
 At level one CoH has one type of enemy. The only problem with CoV is that there are'nt as many 
 areas or enemy types over all. But CoH has had 5 issues and I abandaned my level 17 hero and have 
 never regretted it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zzmaj89
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 26, 2005 7:54 pm PT
Review:  This game is just too much like city of heroes. The missions layouts are the same, they just add 
 new wallpaper or something like that. They made a few new groups to fight, but in some instances, 
 you fight the same groups as the heroes. The only really new feature is adding new archetypes (different 
 kinds of characters with different abilities) . And the only really different archetype is the Mastermind 
 that controls pets, and maybe argueably the assassin. I liked city of heroes a lot but I was ready 
 for something new in City of villians. If you really want to know about the game actually, just 
 check out my review for city of heroes, THATS HOW SIMILAR THEY ARE. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: strongbad900
Rating: 9.2
Date: Nov 25, 2005 5:07 pm PT
Review:  I beta tested this game, and I must say, it's the most innovative MMORPG I've played yet. It's 
 character creation is the most customizable in any game I've ever seen or played, and the missions 
 are fun and original. Admittedly the graphics need some work, but it detracts very little from 
 the overall experiance of the game.
  
  The sound was a bit off and got repetative quickly, but it also did little to contrast against 
 the amazing gameplay. It's very easy to get into, and I was playing like a veteran within minutes. 
 The tutorial was ingeniously worked into a prison breakout, and gives a very componative overview 
 of the game and how it works.
  
  The PvP is amazing, and actually gives players the incentive to fight for contested areas on the 
 new areas of the map. These areas are well thought out and amazingly done, making fun new areas 
 for noobies and hardcore players alike.
  
  Overall I would say this is a great game for casual and hardcore players alike who are just getting 
 into the CoH and CoV universe and at the same time a must buy for anyone into CoH. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cd_rom
Rating: 8.9
Date: Nov 24, 2005 10:00 am PT
Review:  If you already own City of Heroes and like it,, then there is no reason for you to not pick this 
 up. 
  
  The gameplay is pretty much the same. You do missions, kill stuff, kill more stuff, and kill even 
 more stuff. However, the missions have changed some. Sometimes you have to escort a captive out 
 while the enemy is fighting to keep him/her, sometimes a captive will become your ally and help 
 you fight, and other times you are robbing a bank while the security is constantly shooting at 
 you. On rare occasions, the missions actually do temporarily affect the outside world. 
  
  A new addition to the "City of" franchise is PvP. There are currently 3 PvP zones. The first zone 
 is Bloody Bay which is hero vs. villain PvP that makes you search and get samples from six meteors. 
 The second is Siren's Call which is also hero vs. villain, but it is an all out war zone. The third 
 is Warburg which is a free for all, and you are able to get a devastating temporary power if you 
 complete the necessary tasks. The PvP can be both very fun and very frustrating depending on your 
 experience. On one hand you can wipe out everyone in your path and you feel very powerful. However, 
 you can also get killed every 5 seconds which makes you feel weak.
  
  Another new addition is the Supergroup bases. You can't have this in CoH without CoV, so there's 
 another reason to get this game. With the addition of bases, there is an actual reason to be in 
 a SG. Your SG can hold base raids to steal certain items of power which improve everyone's stats 
 in some way. They can hold Supergroup task forces and trials. Depending on the trial, you can have 
 multiple teams doing the same trial at the same time. You are even able to craft items for the 
 base using gathered salvage from defeated foes. There's also an addition of Supergroup badges that 
 everyone in the supergroup works at getting.
  
  If you are looking for an MMORPG that is focused on combat, then CoV is the game for you. If you 
 are looking for an MMORPG that doesn't have orcs and elves, then try CoV out. If you don't like 
 MMORPGs, then why are you reading this review?
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: turbotimer
Rating: 8.1
Date: Nov 24, 2005 4:56 am PT
Review:  The game is ok on solo...
  Its better when you get a super group or teams...
  You get a base when you enter a super group...
  You can raid other players baes...
  You can 
 fight super heroes from City of Heroes...
  
  You can get better traveling powers at level 14, whereas in WoW you get a mount at level 40...
 
  Super jump, teleportation, super speed, fly, etc...
  Create a ninja, a beast, a robot, or a cow that looks like its on crack...
  Umm... the only drawback 
 is that when your new to the game... some people wont even help a villain out... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Coillscath
Rating: 9.1
Date: Nov 23, 2005 1:59 am PT
Review:  The game was most certainly NOT more of the same, it added great new features, more of the good 
 ones aimed at the people who decided to give the game a go PAST level 15, and who play the game 
 for the fun of it, for the story, not just to grind their way to 31337-ness.
  
  Base building is one of those features, it is optional, but if you want an added challenge to the 
 game, or want some more fun PvE or PvP wise, it's a great addition. With the addition of the system 
 of salvage, it gives each player in a supergroup a place, as each of them is equally capable of 
 creating (via a workbench and salvage) items that can be put to great use in the base for PvE or 
 PvP, such as the medical store, which allows members to get inspirations if they come to the base, 
 or grab some in passing as they come through the medical ressuscitation unit after being defeated. 
 Or upgrades for the control or energy-producing devices, to make them more potent without having 
 to spend valuable prestige buying more items. Even upgrading defences, or adding a special teleporter 
 that can grant all the members who have access to the base the ability to teleport to any zone 
 in the Rogue Isles (or Paragon City, depending on who's side you're on) . It does take some effort 
 to get going, but a supergroup base ends up being far more than worth it in the end.
  
  Changes to the missions were also welcome, adding cutscenes, having far more variety in terms of 
 mission types, and changing the structure altogether, in some cases, to immerse you in the story. 
 
  For example, I have on a number of occasions been given the option to choose another path than 
 what I was being directed to do, like when i was sent to kidnap someone, they offered a bribe, 
 and I could take it. Albeit my contact wasn't all too pleased that I hadn't come back with the 
 person but of course, being the villainous dog my character was, he didn't care to mention the 
 cash involved. 
  Temporary powers as mission rewards are also more abundant in CoV. In one of the PvP zones, one 
 mission needs me to scout the zone, going to various places, and once completed I'm given a temporary 
 stealth power, quite handy. Another was when I had to collect samples from several meteors around 
 the zone, guarded by almost mindless alien creatures unlike anything. As a reward, I was given 
 the abilility to summon one of these such creatures up to 5 times.
  
  I won't comment on graphical changes, as that isn't my speciality, being on a sub-par graphics 
 card at the moment, but from what i've seen on friend's computers, the new visual effects are quite 
 impressive and add to the atmosphere of the Rogue Isles.
  
  And, as always, the community is one of the best i've seen in an MMO, most of the players being 
 very mature, and in nearly a year of playing City Of Heroes as well, much has been the same in 
 terms of player maturity. 
  
  As for the people who say nobody RP's in CoV, that is far from true. I personally roleplay, and 
 i've teamed with quite a few other roleplayers (albeit about 30% of them were pirate characters, 
 but that's beside the point :P ) people are usually accomodating of it, even if they don't RP back, 
 they don't knock me. There are places on the forums where supergroups can advertise themselves, 
 and if RP is your thing, then do a search for a roleplaying supergroup. There are more out there 
 than you think.
  
  All in all, City Of Villains is a great game, but do your homework about it first, as it may not 
 suit your playing style. If you read into it a good amount, and you like what you see, then it's 
 the right choice for you, but don't get the game because you 'may as well' or you want to 'try 
 something new' because although this game is brilliant, it requires that you at least meet it halfway, 
 and allow yourself to be immersed in it, rather than waiting for it to pull you in. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Coronatus
Rating: 8.7
Date: Nov 21, 2005 4:39 am PT
Review:  Like well done and relatively bug-free online games? 
  
  Are you into being a bad guy? 
  
  Does the candy medieval fantasy setting of other games like Everquest 2 and World of Warcraft 
 not appeal to you? 
  
  Are you a casual gamer who doesn't have a lot of time on his hands to dive into epic story arches, 
 complex game mechanics and massive dungeon crawls? 
  
  Then City of Villains is your kinda game.
  
  It's the evil pendant to City of Heroes. Both 
 games share the same server park and to some extent even the same game world. With the release 
 of City of Villains the game now also contains PVP elements, offering pretty entertaining Heroes 
 versus Villains PVP.
  
  Other than that it's just the same as City of Heroes. You pick if you want to be good or bad by 
 either playing City of Heroes or City of Villains. Both run on the same account. Both share the 
 same number of character slots in char selection. And both can be played with only one monthly 
 fee.
  
  Sort of a cheat to market them as two completely separate titles. But, that's debatable. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: human_sim
Rating: 9.3
Date: Nov 19, 2005 8:04 am PT
Review:  Come on. Admit it. You had a great time with City of Heroes, but right from the start youve been 
 itching to play the bad guy. Well now you can. My first impression of City of Villains was that 
 it felt a lot like a slightly grittier version of City of Heroes. The basic mechanics of the game 
 havent changed. You create a villainous archetype in a character creation process that adds lots 
 of evil-looking faces and costume parts to the already impressive list of costume choices from 
 City of Heroes. From there you choose from one of five new archetypes. Its hard not to feel a 
 little disappointed initially. Three of these archtypes appear to be evilized versions of their 
 City of Heroes counterparts. Further tinkering with these characters reveals that their power sets, 
 though similar, are combined in such a way to create a character that plays differently. For example, 
 the corruptor plays a lot like a cross between a blaster and a defender.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: aschuhart
Rating: 5.3
Date: Aug 13, 2007 2:56 pm PT
Review:  At first this game starts off pretty strong. It was good direction and explains controls, story, 
 and movement fairly well, however, shortly into the game it gets extremely repetitive. It's pretty 
 much all go to this building/sewer/cave, kill/save x person/creature, return for reward. Not much 
 villainy going on at all. Why am I rescuing kidnapped people when *I* should be the one doing the 
 kidnapping? Combat is pretty standard as nearly every other MMO out there. All in all, I really 
 wasn't impressed by it. At first it was very fun, but it just got so old and repetitive that I 
 didn't even make it one month before canceling my account. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Oni
Rating: 8.4
Date: Nov 18, 2005 11:07 am PT
Review:  When I saw City of Heroes on the store shelf I was like "Hmm, I'd rather play as a villain, I'll 
 pass". So when I heard they were coming out with CoV I was very excited.
  
  The character creation is the best thing about this game. Period. 
  
  Let me get the things 
 I don't like about the game out of the way. PvP. "Hated it". Yay, 75% of my shots miss! Hoorah! 
 Every time I play PvP I come away thinking "Is it me or was that pretty lame"? Hey CoV Dev's, take 
 a lesson from WoW's PvP, make it FUN!
  
  Too easy to lvl. I've already hit level 40, the highest you can get. Too easy. "Am I Evil? Yes 
 I am ... or so I thought" I keep waiting for a dark shroud of wicked and evil gameplay to overcome 
 me, hehe. This game is not really that evil. I got a badge called "Role Model" for crying out loud.
 
  
  Hey, if you want to see what evil is like play a Silent Hill, Doom, Resident Evil etc game. Okay 
 this is comic book evil ... but still, I want missions that reflect that. The missions in this 
 game are too easy and boring. All missions are in similar buildings, and if you grind like I do 
 ... by the time you hit 40, you'll know the placement of every mob.
  
  The lag in this game can be HORRIBLE!! So can all the "Lost Mapserver" failed connections. It would 
 actually surprise me if I went a whole CoV session without some kind of disconnect or crash happening. 
 Yata Yata
  
  The graphics are pretty good and the game is fun overall. I like the "friend's list" and the "Looking 
 for team" options. Super Groups are great to, being able to create the laggiest Base ever is a 
 nice feature as well. Oh and yes, the base raids are pretty much unplayable because of incredible 
 lag. It's the kinda lag where you go into a room, then suddenly you find yourself drowning in the 
 toilet lag. Yeah not fun.
  
  Don't get me started on XP debt ..... I'll let you experience those good timed for yourself.
 
  
  I do love this game and would recommend it to people who want a break from WoW or Guild Wars. But 
 they really need to fix this game, badly. It could have been HUGE, but it fails to hit the mark. 
 Maybe one day I will be able to play a MMO where my true madness will finally be able to shine 
 through ;) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vahagn23
Rating: 6.3
Date: Nov 17, 2005 9:08 pm PT
Review:  This game is okay for the first month but then it gets boring, I was playing CoH and then pr-ordered 
 this it became to be the same boringness as Coh and PVP sucked, and the missions were the same, 
 nothing changed mostly the same powers, flight ss sj nothing new, just new lands and new outfits 
 waste of money and time, dont get it if you dont like all that comic book stuff, but if you do 
 get it, it has good graphics and gameplay but gets boring pretty fast. Thogh gameplay for me sucked 
 aswell. You should test it out first on its free trial before continuing to play, and be logical 
 when judging the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bimopsig
Rating: 8.9
Date: Nov 17, 2005 6:18 pm PT
Review:  I've quit COH but I have reactivated my old account, and COV just seem to deliver on what I and 
 other players have been craving for months i. e. to perform villainuous deeds, PvP, etc. Moreover, 
 graphically COV is fairly good and matched with simple and ridiculously fun gameplay.
  
  Online gamers love to whine on how repetitive the game gets, but so as any other online games. 
 The problem is gamers tend to spend more than just 3 hours per-day playing the game, perhaps due 
 to the addiction and enjoyment of the game; so it proves either the game is simply great , or they 
 (individuals who spent hours playing) simply 'NEED-A-LIFE'. 
  
  What bothers me until now is why NCSOFT did not launch COH and COV simultenuosly, as a complete 
 package? If they did I'm sure that there won't be any need of so many accounts reactivation, and 
 they could spent more time on more thoughtful gameplay improvements for example. 
  
  To put it simply COV is a 'must have' game, especially as a stand-alone-sister-game to COH with 
 joined monthly fee. I admit is a wonderful strategy. Especially, to get the former players back, 
 and for any other online gamers to at least consider it.
  
  If you are a former player : reactivate your account, now.
  If you are an online gamer : consider 
 this game
  If you are a non-online gamer and wanna try an online game: 
  try COV from those who already owned it, if you cant, buy it and try it.
  
  The question is, 
 can your characters fly like superman or fly, fight & dressed up like Neo from Matrix, run like 
 the flash, mind control like professor X, or fight courageously like Aragon for LOTR with other 
 online games? 
  
  Online Games played by writer:
  
  DOAC 1 year
  Starwars Galaxies 1 year 
  COH 1 year 
  Everquest II 7 months
  Warcraft 6 months
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Grash40
Rating: 9.3
Date: Nov 17, 2005 9:20 am PT
Review:  As a big fan already of CoH it was easy to get into the action and immerse myself into the game. 
 
  The community is great everyone is helpfull and do not continually type obsenties while chat ting. 
 Making for a very friendly, yet aggresive gaming experience, oh and you can create some really 
 cool crazy characters too what more do you want!
  So what if the missions are a little repetative, the game does not suffer as you are either assisting 
 and healing your group, twisting someones mind apart or you could just be kickin some serious butt! 
 And when you've done all that you lvl up and receive another cool power one of many available in 
 this cracking game. Get it now.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: XxRyoxX
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 17, 2005 5:25 am PT
Review:  After all these years playing the great good guy who saves everything and everyone from the dark 
 shadows of the earth. You get to become one of those shadows and join the ranks with thugs then 
 side by side with the great super villians of destruction. This MMORPG is one of my favorites because 
 I'm a villian, and You can play with other villains and fight heroes, destroy things, kidnap, and 
 last but not least, build your very own base/hideout. I found that part of the game very well done. 
 Yet you think your so safe in there, it can be raided. The costumes you can create from a basic 
 body is amazingly done. Graphics are great, and noone is the same villian. I recommend this game 
 to Diablo lovers and world of warcraft players. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: StarkA1
Rating: 5.8
Date: Nov 16, 2005 11:25 pm PT
Review:  As with CoH, many of the missions are defeat all then a smattering of get this blinky or rescue/kidnap 
 this person. They do not want you stealthing missions which you used to be able to and can to a 
 certain point now but overall not much variety. Bases are by far the best addition as it is finally 
 different content other than just a new zone and new villains. PvP is okay but again not much variety 
 and its new so still needs a lot of work. The recycling of animations and sound effects is most 
 disappointing and the graphics are good. The graphics do not need to be exceptional for the comic 
 book feel so though they are just okay, they are appropriate. The ragdoll physics was a nice addition 
 though. Now if they can just get the enviroment a little more interactive. So many buildings yet 
 they are nothing more than wallpaper as you discover you cannot enter any of them.
  
  One of my main gripes is the lack of music in this game. Anytime music is present, it doesn't last 
 long. They have added more music in this last issue and it definitely helped the immersion a bit 
 more but once again it is too scarce.
  
  If you are looking for a 2 or 3 month distraction and don't care for a villain or a super hero 
 then buy CoH since its cheaper. As a long time fan of CoH, not much substance has been added and 
 the developers have spent most of their time tweaking the gameplay in CoH which culminated in CoV 
 current system. Make sure you have an Nvidia card as the game is more friendly toward them. Gameplay 
 can become repetitive very quick since there is no crafting or skills system and unless you are 
 a PvP fan, you may not find much else to hold your attention atm. (They are still working on a 
 skills system, which one has already been scrapped and we hoping will be released in the next issue 
 or the one after (issue 7 or 8 which could be 3-8months)
  
  I will say even though CoH/CoV didn't quite have the immersion/depth I was hoping for, I was hooked 
 for a long time since I am a big comic book fan. So if you love comics and have yet to play either 
 CoH or CoV, then this is by far the best MMO for you. For me, I got all the flash I could out of 
 CoH and since CoV didn't add much substance for me, I am left feeling 'meh' about both games atm. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mosefire
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 16, 2005 4:08 pm PT
Review:  I love it. Its right up there with all of the other MMORPG's if not better then them! Little bit 
 of bugs here and there but those will be almost all gone by Christmas. Also the new Super Group 
 Bases are fricken awsome, and the PvP is addictive! I recomend it to everyone out there, even if 
 you have never played a MMORPG before, this is the one to get. Can't wait for any updates or expansions 
 to come, providing the 2 new zones along with tons of extra features (crossing fingers!) . Looking 
 for to see your guys in game. Ra Al Ghul lvl 24 MM Triumph server! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: eerock
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 16, 2005 1:17 pm PT
Review:  COV is currently the best role playing game out, never mind the whole massively multiplayer part.
 
  The enemies are smart and each very different. So everyday I'm doing something different. I play 
 a Mastermind which controls 6 minions. 5 ninjas and 1 demon. I give them aggressive, defensive, passive 
 commands or attack, or goto. I've chosen the grant invisibility power so they are invisible ninjas. 
 I'm in a supergroup of 75 members with a base that we will have base raids from or defend from.
 
  Sure, you can be amazed at the water effects, or sit staring at the sunset. Maybe you play zombies 
 and laugh at the projectile vomiting. Or maybe you like to command robots with star wars like sounds 
 from their lasers.
  However you cut this cake, it has many layers, just like an onion. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: coronaboy10
Rating: 6.8
Date: Nov 15, 2005 7:07 pm PT
Review:  City of Villians is plain fun. For anyone who has played City of Heroes, you'll pick this one right 
 up. However, if you're expecting something brand new fresh and inovative to the city of.. universe. 
 You may be disappointed. While the graphics engine has been updated and include many spectacular 
 effects, many players experience some serious performance issues, particularly those with ATI video 
 cards. Many of the powersets have been switched around and matched up with different ATs, which 
 does give villains a different feel. The new Mastermind AT is worth the purchase of the game in 
 itself for its uniqueness.
  
  While I really do enjoy the game and still play it, the game doesnt make one feel very evil while 
 supposedly committing evil deeds. It feels like coh all over again just with darker graphics and 
 a better game engine and more character creation options. I would recommend any first time player 
 to the city of universe to pick it up, but anyone who's left coh for greener pastures need not 
 apply. They will probably not be very impressed with this expansion. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: EOAPorthos
Rating: 1
Date: Nov 15, 2005 5:13 pm PT
Review:  Ok, so I have nothing good to say about this game. CoH became a horrible grind and it appears the 
 same is true of CoV. Tthe graphics are out dated, the gameplay is identical to that in CoH, the 
 character creation seems less exciting as when I first got CoH (keep in mind that creating a charatcer 
 is the most interesting, deep component to the game) . The addition of bases does not dwarf the 
 short comings of this release, at least to me. The fact of the matter is, CoV is nothing more than 
 an expansion for CoH, an out dated, shallow game that falls way below the generous ratings being 
 given to it. What is worse, NCSoft charges full retail for a game that is clearly a re-skin of 
 the original, with minor changes. What should have been released was an updated graphics engine 
 (if it was, **OMG**) , with a combat revamp to eleveate the boring grind that is CoH and now CoV. 
 The fact that you can play CoH and CoV for one monthly fee does nothing to change my view nor will 
 PvP redeem this over priced paper weight. If you have purchased CoV and are paying $14.99 a month 
 for it, do youself a favor, at least get CoH so you can play both for the same fee. Am I harsh? 
 Perhaps, however, when I purchase ( and I do mean purchase, down witrh EULA's) a product I expect 
 it to be of quality. I am in a position that enables me to game for 10 hours a day, and this will 
 not suffice. I will be returning it to NCSoft. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shoeshine60ace
Rating: 8.2
Date: Nov 14, 2005 6:41 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay -- like coh however with a more dense play and a moodier feel.. which is well welcome.
 
  graphics -- same as coh
  controls -- same as coh
  
  pros -- Well it does add a more WOW type of pvp atmosphere which is welcomed. Also this game is 
 more soloable than coh and more fun.. If COH was a caual gamer mmo than this is a very casual mmo.. anyone 
 can jump in and have tons of fun.. Almost all archtypes are very different than coh and even more 
 fun to play..
  
  cons -- unles syou have super computer the lag is 
 
  I can not express that enough. Sometimes ull even log in and as soon as u log in u disconnect.,. ull 
 relog and same thing happes.. so some days you wont even be able to log in. 
  
  overall -- if your a coh fan get it fissure, if you were always interested or want to join in on 
 a mmo get it fissure, otherwise you might want to do more research on it cause it might not be 
 for you espicially if u have very crappy computer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CatAtomic999
Rating: 8.8
Date: Nov 14, 2005 11:19 am PT
Review:  City of Villains is more than an expansion pack for City of Heroes, but less than a sequel. But 
 however you want to define it, it's one of the best MMORPG experiences available.
  
  The last time I played Cryptic's City of Heroes was about 5 months after launch, and while they 
 had already released some impressive updates for the original game, it still felt rather monotonous 
 and shallow to me. I loved making new and unique heroes, but as a mostly solo player, I was usually 
 just doing missions inside the same offices, caves, and warehouses over and over, and it got boring. 
 I decided to cancel my subscription and give it another look when City of Villains was released.
 
  
  Well, I'm sold. City of Villains really fills in the areas that were most sorely lacking in City 
 of Heroes. The mission system in particular has been greatly expanded and improved. Story arcs 
 are much more varied and interesting now, and in just 20 levels I've played solo missions that 
 had my villain robbing banks, blowing up outdoor generators to sabotage a radio station, assaulting 
 a power plant, blowing up a landmark in Paragon City (an instanced version of Paragon- you don't 
 actually go there as a villain) , and more.
  
  PvP is available as well, but the PvP community seems to be in it's infancy right now, as you might 
 expect. The PvP system seems very team-oriented, and I expect it'll be some time before the community 
 gets it's bearings and manages to do anything more than sweep the PvP zones for solo players with 
 bad peripheral vision. Still, the tools are there and the incentive is there in the form of zone 
 rewards and base assaults, etc. We'll see.
  
  The graphics in CoV have been improved over CoH, making use of more advanced depth of field and 
 bloom effects. However, these effects are taxing and *will* drop your framerate even on a good 
 rig, and the structure beneath the new effects is basically the same CoH engine you're familiar 
 with. It does look good- and the design of the Rogue Isles is much more intricrate and detailed 
 than that of Paragon City.
  
  A list of new costume options have been added on top of the already amazing CoH character customization. 
 This has always been Cryptic's best feature, and they don't disappoint in CoV. Most other MMORPGs 
 force you to create a character that looks and fights like everyone else, but in CoV, you truly 
 can pick a theme and just run with it. You can look completely unique and even fight differently 
 than most. I've got an 8-foot tall lizard man with a top hat and beard named Abraham Lizard, if 
 you need an example of CoV's amazingly flexible character customization.
  
  In my opinion, the current MMORPG scene is topped by two games with decidedly different takes on 
 the genre: WoW, with it's traditional formula polished to a high sheen, and City of Heroes/Villains, 
 with it's more innovative action-oriented gameplay. If you basically liked WoW, but hated the crafting, 
 the cookie-cutter characters, and the auction house, then CoV may well be worth a look. If you 
 like comics or enjoyed CoH, it's definitely worth checking out.
  
  That was the worst closing paragraph in a game review ever, but since I'm not being paid, I'm not 
 going to rework it. So there. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DarkDante152
Rating: 9.2
Date: Nov 13, 2005 10:21 am PT
Review:  City Of Villians is the expansion to City Of Heroes. Thier are not many differnce's except that 
 you play as the villain which is about time since eveybody wanted to play as the villian. In City 
 of Villains you have a more indepth character creation, so you can be sure that you will have a 
 cool character at the end. The gameplay of City of Villians is similar to City of Heroes except 
 you now fight heroes and other villians. Thier is also base building so you can have a base and 
 you do a raid which you and other people in your super group can take over another group of players 
 base and if you win thier base becomes your base. A problem with City of Villain's gameplay is of 
 course LAG! The sound is pretty much the same as City of Heroes. In the end City Of Villains is 
 a great expansion to City of heroes, just make sure your pc that has the system requirements to 
 play this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tysonius
Rating: 8.9
Date: Nov 10, 2005 2:56 pm PT
Review:  The mechanics are pretty much the same as for City of Heroes, but there are a number of improvements, 
 such as more costume options. The ability to construct bases for super groups should offer some 
 fun, but I think the biggest plus is being able to go PvP against super heroes (or as a hero, against 
 super villain PCs. I'm sure there are people who play CoH who aren't interested in PvP, but I think 
 most saw the inability to play against other PCs as villains as a gaping hole in the gameplay.
 
  
  When CoH came out last year, I often played 6-8 hours a day. While I eventually cut back, that 
 had more to do with trying out other MMOGs (Guild Wars, WoW) than any boredom with the game itself. 
 I always intended to return once CoV came out. If nothing else, I missed the carefree fun of jumping 
 into a group of thugs and engaging in an all-out ass-whuppin' with my scrapper.
  
  I've spent little time as a villain so far, and spent less playing against "the good guys," but 
 I've already visited the PvP areas as a hero, and very much look forward to going out with my SG 
 to lay down the law to some super villains. In time, with experience, I expect to do the same as 
 a villain to the forces of good. 
  
  Yeehaw! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cubemad
Rating: 8.8
Date: Nov 9, 2005 7:58 am PT
Review:  A really fun game which is fun right from the start. There is no messing round like killing boring 
 low level mobs at the start, the game gets into the action quickly and is very addictive straight 
 from the beginning. 
  
  The character creation is very fun with a huge number of costumes and designs to make your villain 
 as scary as possible. This game is very similar to city of villains, just that this time you play 
 the 'bad guy'. If you have a city of heros subscription, you will be able to play both games from 
 the one subscription so if you previously played COH you might want to come back to have a go at 
 this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ScrubLeader
Rating: 9.2
Date: Nov 8, 2005 5:29 pm PT
Review:  ok everyones saying this game blows, well the ones who do are nerds who have probably played everquest 
 there whole lives i may be a nerd but ill take a game that is about super heros and villians befor 
 i pick something with dumb wizards. ive just got into this rpg stuff, buying games like everquest 
 2, final fantasy, and ryl. i havnt played coh, but since this is an exspantion i dont see why everyones 
 being an idiot and saying its nothing different. ok think about this, its an exspantion. not a 
 new game.
  seeing as how you can create a new character that looks different from coh characters, have different 
 missions, and a new way to have pvp, its just that, an exspantion. now to say its boring, your 
 just being an even bigger idiot. basically all mmorpgs are boring. you sit there kill crap, level, 
 group and do other junk.
  this is where mmorpgs fail where the coh franchise has succeeded. 
  games like everquest and 
 all the others have a lack of character creation. for example if your playing any other mmorpg, 
 your just like everyone else, what i mean by that is youll see people with the same exact armor, 
 youll look the same and feel like an idiot, even though its not your fault, but the game. 
  in city of heros, villians, you can look any way you want giving you more of a variety than any 
 other game out there. some may say well, i want to be the best on my server! ya well guess what 
 some ones gonna get the same aromor as you, its only a matter of time, and when that happens you 
 wont be the best, youll just be the same as the other idiot that looks just like you.
  
  the way leveling up works in city of villians could be better, but its solid. making you want to 
 level up more and see what new moves look like. fighting in the game is fun, not tedeous like in 
 every other game. the graphics of explotions, moves like ice, fire and all the other junk in the 
 game are cool looking, so leveling is more fun than other games that have lame moves and less than 
 ecited graphics for them. i had more fun wanting to fly and get my cape and creat a completly original 
 character then i did playing games like everquest. i didnt have fun getting aromor that someone 
 already had, i didnt have fun looking just like someone elese. thats retarted. 
  this game may be boring to some because there unoriginal and cant think of a cool character to 
 create, they want the game to do it for them and look the same as everyone else. if so this game 
 obviously isnt for you. so if you like games like everquest your a person who cant decide for himself, 
 so basically you need your mother to pick out your underwear for you and clean your skid marks.
 
  
  for people who say this game is boring, your an idiot, every game created is boring in due time. 
 i have spent hours on character creation and flying and getting my cape. when i play crap like 
 ever quest i get bored in the first ten minutes. i rather play with myslef because thats more exciting. 
 if you want a game that is "Fun" and has its own originality play this game or coh, again this 
 is an exspantion that you can play if you dont even have coh, that in itslef is better than any 
 mmorpg out there. if you spent the time to read what im writing you will realize that i have spent 
 the time to write about this damn game. i have knocked on ever crack because its not ever crack, 
 its ever crap. i suggest you buy the game and try the free trial. personally every game to be is 
 crap, but this game is one of the better i have played. yes it can be boring but what isnt. paly 
 it, and if you dont like it take a crap on it. but just beacuse a couple of morons give the game 
 a rating of a 3 dosnt mean the games bad, it just means the reviewer is a total idiot and enjoys 
 games that dosnt let you create what you want. i may be repedative in this review, and it may be 
 alot to read but i wouldnt write this much if i didnt think the game was worth playing or buying. 
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: mlesak
Rating: 7.8
Date: Nov 8, 2005 10:44 am PT
Review:  I pre-ordered City of Villains and participated (albeit sporadically) in the beta testing. The 
 graphics are solid (could be better, tho) and the character customization process is phenomenal. 
 It would be nice if the archetypes weren't so similar to CoH, but the developers' plans to join 
 the two games to provide PVP opportunities probably necessitates the likenesses for fairness sake. 
 The missions thus far have been moderately diverse & interesting. The play environment is a bit 
 bland in my opinon, and greater interactivity with the environment would be welcomed. In addition 
 to improving the look of the game, more interactivity with the environment could provide many more 
 "instant opportunities" (e. g., villains could rob stores; heroes could thwart said robberies) . 
 With those caveats and the expectation that the developers will continue to support and improve 
 the game on the fly, this is well worth playing -- especially for those comic book fans and anyone 
 who has ever fantasized about being a man of steel or a green goblin!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: meshwolf
Rating: 5.5
Date: Nov 8, 2005 4:16 am PT
Review:  Once you look beyond the new zones, the new archtypes/powersets, the different costumes and the 
 upgraded graphics engine, you will find this game is exactly the same game as City Of Heroes. Well 
 not City Of Heroes as it was a year ago, but the City Of Heroes as it became after numerous nerfs.
 
  
  If you remove the new archetypes/powersets, this would have been a regular patch and not something 
 that would earn the right to call itself a "whole different game".
  
  The missions are just the same except for the textures and the gameplay has slowed down considerably 
 from the original City of Heroes with forced teaming and constant deaths.
  
  I used to love City of Heroes. Played at least 4-5 hrs a day, but now I don't feel very super anymore. 
 I was hoping that City of Villains would bring the flare back and put the FUN back into this mmorpg, 
 but it didn't help.
  
  Add to that the constant respec's of your character, once for each Issue (that's what they call 
 the updates) and there has been 6 of them so far since release of CoH, another one due late december.
 
  
  This is one of the games/upgrades I wish I hadn't bought... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: electro303
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 7, 2005 12:44 am PT
Review:  
  
  One of the best games I have EVER played. Wow, it's like being in a comic book. 
  
  City of Villians is what gaming is all about. 
  
  The costumes are great, the interaction online 
 is rock solid. The smoothest I have yet to try. I can only say that it is an incredible experience.
 
  
  I enjoy this game so much that when I have to make time on my calendar for eating and other necessities. 
 It is that good. The costume maker is great and the interface is super good.
  
  If only all games could be made like this.
  
  Kudos to NCsoft.
  
  Get this game you won't 
 regret it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jdog0930
Rating: 9.6
Date: Nov 6, 2005 11:10 am PT
Review:  I think this game is awesome. I really like City of Heroes so I am very into this. Sure most of 
 the stuff in this game is very similar to COH but I still think it is awesome. For the people that 
 never played COH this game might take a while to get used to but after you learn you will probably 
 like it. The missions are really fun too. I like the new cut scenes in them. I definently give 
 this great game a 9.6 because of the awesome gameplay. I hope to see you all on the game some time. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kenkajin
Rating: 8.9
Date: Nov 4, 2005 11:19 am PT
Review:  I've played my share of MMOs and I have to say that COV is probably the most fun I've had with 
 the genre. The learning curve for the game is very quick and the tutorial (Break out of the prison 
 called the Zig) does an excellent job explaining the mechanics of the game, as well as giving a 
 feel for the universe you are entering. 
  
  With regards to the character generation system, it is simply the best there is in the MMO genre. 
 The process of creating the look of your character is fantastic and provides plenty of choices 
 ensuring that your unique character will hardly ever encounter their twin in game. Some people 
 have commented that the Archetypes in COV are mirrors of those in COH. This is not true at all. 
 Yes, there is some overlap with regards to powers that are shared between the ATs, but there the 
 similiarities end. The COV equivalent of the Tanker class isn't the Brute (I would argue it is 
 the Mastermind) , and Stalkers aren't Scrappers.
  
  Storywise, there are some great arcs to follow. The 'Save Wretch' storyline is fantastic. The new 
 mission types add some new flavor to veterans of COH. The developers have also managed to finally 
 create a PVP environment worth playing in (COH was sorely lacking in this area) . 
  
  Graphics and sounds are superb. I love the new ragdoll physics (nothing is more satisfying that 
 a knockback attack that causes your opponent's body to flop over a railing and go rolling down 
 the stairs) , but others don't like them. The music and sound effects are excellent and reinforce 
 the atmosphere of the game.
  
  Positive things said, CoV doesn't have the same open feel that WoW has. What it does have is an 
 innovative genre (superheroes and villains) that hasn't been done by everyone, great character 
 diversity (you will love your character) , deep and immersive stories, great graphics and sound, 
 and probably one of the best online player bases. If you're looking for something fun, I highly 
 recommend CoV.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: phanfan99
Rating: 9.1
Date: Nov 4, 2005 7:33 am PT
Review:  I am finding that I am having a lot of fun playing this game. I even have put my Star Wars Battle 
 field II on the shelf for now. 
  
  The game play is fun the missions are great. Some contacts will not even talk to you if you don't 
 cause enough havoc. 
  
  Got to love havoc.
  
  The only downer I have is during team missions it is almost impossible to see who you are shooting 
 at. 
  
  I look forward to chasing lvl 50. 
  
  When you walk around town you get to see how people have tries to immitate the costumes of other 
 heroes or villians-
  
  Be original. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DrWookie
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 3, 2005 10:04 pm PT
Review:  First thing I notice when I jump into the game is the dirt in the game. The tutorial for City of 
 Heroes had its ugly parts but nothing like the inside of the Zigg with criminals running around 
 beating up police officers. The game excellently portrays the evil side of villains while not going 
 overboard with to much "evilness". Just because you are a villain doesn't mean you don't have allies 
 and you don't just go around killing anyone.
  
  THe power sets are all very similiar to CoH, which isn't surprising. Even the new sets (Aside from 
 the mastermind AT) are very similiar. Plant control, while graphically it is new seems to contain 
 the same core abilities that all control sets have... with a few variances like they all seem to 
 contain and another unique finishing summon.
  
  That isn't neccesarily a bad thing because ultimately CoH and consequently CoV excells because 
 of the character and flavor of the game. It may not be the best game out there for huge amounts 
 of content but the immersion and enjoyment that comes from just fighting in the game just can't 
 be beat.
  
  It may seem oversaid but if you didn't like CoH you won't like CoV most likely. That said, if you 
 felt some things were missing from CoH.... like a real sense of conflict then you may want to pick 
 it up again (Or pick up CoV) . THe PvP alone adds a new layer to the game, even though most people 
 will say it has its problems it is still a lot of fun to see groups of heroes fighting grousp of 
 villains.... there is nothing close to that in an MMORPG... you just don't get the same sense when 
 you are running around as a Night Elf fighting an Orc (Not to bash WoW, also a very good MMORPG) .
 
  
  CoV, just like CoH are games for people who aren't obsessed with the mechanics of a game.... it 
 isn't for people who crunch numbers and think 'Well this game has 20 races, 30 different professions, 
 a crafting system that has 10,000 items... it is going to be good". The game focuses on a style 
 and a sense of roleplaying, even when you aren't actually roleplaying.
  
  City of Villains is definately worth a shot, whether or not you have played CoH. The missions are 
 a blast, and the style can't be beat. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: familyguyfan404
Rating: 9.8
Date: Nov 3, 2005 5:42 pm PT
Review:  City of Villains has to be the best MMO yet. It is innovative, fun, and highly addictive. In City 
 of Villains, you take the role of a villain working his/her way up to be a member of Arachnos, 
 a league of very powerful villains. You start out by picking a character type or archetype. There 
 is a Brute, Stalker, Dominator, Mastermind, and Corrupter. Then you pick the powers for you archetype. 
 After that is the fun part. You create your villain with an enormous variety of clothes and accessories. 
 When you are done that you enter the game. You start out as a criminal breaking out of jail and 
 then you work your way up to Arachnos. This highly addictive game will keep you glued to your seat 
 as you level up and gain new powers and team up with other villains. You rob banks, kidnap people, 
 and take out gangs. You can also create a Super Group which is like a club. You can create your 
 own Super Group name, slogan, emblem, rankings, and colors. You can also create and customize your 
 own Super Group base, and you can actually raid other Super Group bases. The monthly fee for the 
 game is $14.99. If you buy or already have City of Heroes, the fee is still $14.99 a month. It 
 is better to own both games because you get 4 extra character slots with both and you get to be 
 a hero too. You can even turn your hero to a villain. This game is a very fun and addicting game 
 and should not be missed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: liqudplummer
Rating: 7.7
Date: Nov 3, 2005 5:15 pm PT
Review:  Once upon a time, I bought COH the week it came out and played and played and played. Then I bought 
 WOW the week it came out and played and played and played. And the two coexisted peacefully for 
 a long long time, a "golden age" if you will...... But there was soon a shortage of playing time 
 in my life and war raged between the two MMORPG's. But the amazing depth of WOW soon won out, as 
 it seemed COH was becoming a little stale. I cancelled my COH account. There was no way I was paying 
 $15.00 twice a month. But now with COV, I like so many others, have reactivated my account and 
 upgraded. Forgive me WOW....... don't wait up....
  
  COV is not nearly as deep as WOW. It is though, a game which is incredibly easy to pick up and 
 play. The characer creation process is, quite frankly, the best of any MMORPG out there and perhaps 
 the best part of COV in general. They've added a shockingly large number of new costume options 
 and you can make some truly horrifying villains with zombie and monster parts galore. 
  
  You will be truly dissapointed, however, by the lack of new power sets for all 5 archetypes. Sure 
 the AT's have different names, but you've seen all these blasts and auras before. For AT's like 
 the brute (tanker) and the corrupter (defender) , almost all the power sets are only slightly varied 
 from their COH counterparts. However, one AT, the Master Mind, or MM, is new to the fold, and acts 
 as a summoning class, calling on legions of zombies or ninjas to do his bidding. This NEW content, 
 is a breath of fresh air for the game and its only salvation in this reviewers eyes. 
  
  If you've played COH for any length of time, you might be able to rationalize buying this game, 
 as things have changed and you will have fun with the new combinations of powers found within. 
 But you will not, I repeat, WILL NOT be blown away by this game. You will inevitably put it down 
 for WOW again and probably for good this time, but you will be better off for giving it one last 
 shot. 
  
  If you've never played the game before, you need to. Its part of our MMORPG history, and truly 
 on of the freshest takes on the genre. Theres plenty to do and hours upon hours (trust me) of content 
 waiting for you, and it will be an incredibley welcome change from the grind of WOW (what do you 
 mean there are people who DON'T play WOW???) for a few weeks. Pick it up 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hell3ent
Rating: 8.2
Date: Nov 2, 2005 8:32 pm PT
Review:  Some of the reviews posted here have been relatively negative, **** about lack of new content and 
 expensive add-on. I find it quite fresh and enjoyable, myself. Hell, you get to play as a villain! 
 What could be more fun. More costume-design choices, new areas for both villains and heroes to 
 explore. Rag-doll physics for that extra knock-back oomph. And let's not forget the pvp of heroes 
 vs. villains!
  If you like mmo's like WoW, then stick with WoW, because this is probably not for you. Granted, 
 there's not always the most engaging missions or story-line, but hey, its about thumping the heroes/villains. 
 If you grew up with the likes of Captain America, the Avengers, Justice League, and other titles 
 from the silver age, then this is the mmo for you! Kinda like Freedom Force goes online. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: haifankb
Rating: 8.3
Date: Nov 2, 2005 10:13 am PT
Review:  I have been reading some reviews around here and I see people who post without really knowning 
 the game. They say "omg, this game sucks because I played CoH and it sucks" without going into 
 some of the new feature they have added to this game. 
  
  I have played both CoH (about 5 months) and WoW (about 3-4 months) and CoV (since it came out) 
 and I will try illustrate the differences in my reviews.
  
  Gameplay: 
  In CoH missions get really repetitive, you talk to contact, contact give you mission of 2 types. 
 1st type is to street hunt (open area) certain enemies. 2nd type is to go into instances to kill. 
 
  
  Of course, in Wow, you do a lot of similar things such as "kill 10 demons and get their collars", 
 "go to this area which is infested with monster and get me this battle plan", etc. So in the end 
 you are killing just the same. 
  
  In CoV, they have improved it somewhat to 
  1. reduce the number of street hunting mission because street hunt with group is just not fun. 
 
  2. added a new feature so that you can get mission anywhere by reading newspaper. 
  3. added more types of mission layout. I remember when I played CoH, how boring it gets to see 
 the same office/cave/lab/warehouse over and over again. It still needs improvement, but still much 
 better than before, though in terms of atomsphere of the cities and area, Wow still beats the game. 
 
  4. if you and your team member both have the same mission, you will be able to complete both in 
 one run. 
  5. Pvp zone tasks. 
  6. More friendly interface for finding group members, imagine you have a text box where you can 
 type in comments and a "find" button to find all that are looking to group instead of screaming 
 in your guild channel/look for group channel/general chat in major cities/using "who" command in 
 Wow. The life is certainly better. 
  *7. The most important improvement of the game, which a lot of reviews failed to notice/mention 
 is Super Group/ Villain Group base construction. It is more than just a place to hang out with 
 your guildmates. It adds a lot of the gameplay. I will explain a bit in detail below.
  
  Key differences with Wow:
  1. Compare to Wow, travel time between missions and zones are relative 
 short, you don't have to pay a wingrider and watch the thing fly for 5-15 mins to get to a new 
 area. Each hero can take travling powers (fly/teleport/super speed/super jump) , that will enable 
 you to get from point A to point B really fast. 
  2. Most missions are instances in randomly generated dungeons, instead of open ground.
  3. When 
 you lvl you get more abilities, instead of upgrading the same spell you have seen using over and 
 over again since lvl 10 in Wow. So lvling motivation here is new skills not new loots in Wow.
 
  4. If you die from monsters, you will incur some sort of xp penalty, so afterwards when you gain 
 more xp, half go to your penalty, half go to your normal xp.
  5. Open areas are divided into zones that will require loading time (relatively short) instead 
 of wow's open zones with no loading time besides going to one continent to the next. 
  6. No skill trees, you simply pick a super power that you can get at your lvl or slot them with 
 enhencements ( making that power more effective)
  
  Of course, that's not all the differences but should be some of the most significant ones. 
  
 
  *SG/VG Base construction:
  People initially probably think it is nothing more than a place to hang out, but it is more than 
 that, first of all, it is completely customizable. You SG/VG leader will be able to spend "prestige" 
 that the members earn to construct the layout of the base, textures, objects, lightings you name 
 it, and it is probably in there. SG/VG get "prestige" mainly from the group members, anyone who 
 have joined the SG/VG will be able to enter a "SG/VG mode" in which case you can change the color 
 of your costume to match the guild's official colors, etc. In this mode, you will be trading slighting 
 less "infamy" (money) for "prestige points" for your SG/VG. Don't worry, in CoV, the "infamy" you 
 get from missions are monsters are travial, it is nothing compared to the money you make from selling 
 loots. "prestige" can be then spent to buy new structures, objects, rooms and of course paying 
 bi-weekly rent.
  
  So you ask: "what's the benefit of a SG/VG, everything you just talked about still look nothing 
 but a hanging out place." Here you go:
  Want to show off your base to other SG/VG that you have coalition with: check
  Want your private 
 SG/VG hospital: check
  Want your private SG/VG portalt that allow you to go to different zones: check
  **Want your own 
 "items of powers" that will give bonuses (dmg, def, xp, etc) to every member of your SG/VG: check
 
  ***Want to have SG vs. VG battle in your base: check
  ***Want some defense to defend instruders: check
  ***Want a salving station that can salvage 
 the parts your SG/VG members get from monsters to unlock new objects recipes/getting construction 
 materials: check
  
  **Items of Power:
  Those are items you will have to get from usually doing SG/VG specific missions/tasks, or ***raiding 
 other SG/VG. the good items are very rare and provides a very large bonus to all members of the 
 SG/VG. You put them in your base to gain their benefits.
  
  ***SG vs. VG base raiding
  Since you have all those awesome "items of power" in your base, it is normal to assume your opposing 
 faction 's guild will also want to get their hands on them and that's when you have SG vs. VG base 
 raiding. Your own SG/VG can schedule a raid against the opposing faction guild in their base. In 
 which case, if you are successful, you will be able to rob their items of powers and have it in 
 your base. Of course, getting there won't be easy, as you will have to pass through their base 
 defense structures and the defenders. Of course, if the base defense gets too annoying, you can 
 always try blowing up the power generator or central computer to shut them all down. In the case 
 when getting to their items of power get too frustrating, remember you can always try to do as 
 much damage to their bases as you can before you leave, they will have to spend more prestige/materals 
 to repair it. Of course, it is not all gain for the attacker and nothing for the defenders, if 
 you raid other bases, rest assured that they can also raid you.
  
  Sound: an improvement over CoH, adding more appearing tracks, not certinally still not the strongest 
 point of CoH universe.
  
  Graphic: Got a pretty decent upgrade from CoH, especially the new ragdoll physics, it makes knock 
 back much more enjoyable. 
  
  Good: pick up and play, easy to group, nice organization structures, new powerset/ classes such 
 as the new minions class master mind.
  
  Middle: no loot, only power, if you grind a lot for loot in wow, this is probably not for you.
 
  
  Bad: missions still get somewhat repetitive, weak end game content compare to Wow, hopefully SG/VG 
 base constructions will make up some of it.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: colinhiom
Rating: 8.1
Date: Nov 2, 2005 2:26 am PT
Review:  As a regular player, too regular if you wanted my girl-friends view, the City of Heroes/City of 
 Villains is a highly addictive game system - with a stunning core idea and graphics - but somehow 
 both games leave you yearning for a little more finesse, a little more attention to detail and 
 little more flair here and there. But that's beginning with the negatives.
  
  Lets look at what's great about City of Villains and put it into context:
  
  The Positives
 
  City of Villains brings a lot more than a set of new costume changes for regular players, it brings 
 an interesting new dynamic to the game that was missing before. Although CoV has only officially 
 been available for a couple of days (when I wrote this) there is already a great rivalry building 
 between the good vs evil twin axis of the games and for once, it looks as though the developers 
 NCSoft have got this right. City of Heroes regulars thought they were only looking forward to the 
 new content and costumes with little interest in Player vs Player (PvP) , for example, but the Hero 
 v Villain central dynamic is nicely balanced. NCSoft have spent many months "tweaking" the offensive 
 and defensive abilities of each hero/villain archetype and now you can see why: Whether you're 
 playing a heroic street-fighter (a Scrapper in City of Heroes) or a mind-controlling villain (a 
 Mastermind in City of Villains) you can be sure of finely-tuned battle that might only be resolved 
 with superior tactics and reflexes on your part or the support of your comrades in arms! And with 
 CoV adding another 5 hero/villain archetypes to CoH's 7 there is plenty of customisable variation 
 to play with. As importantly, NCSoft have been careful not to make the focus on the game the PvP 
 system and PvP can be completely avoided if you'd rather focus on exploration and character development 
 - which in City of Heroes was the complete focus of the game.
  
  City of Villains also continues the fine tradition of truly stunning character animation and effects 
 within the game and nowhere is this more fun than when in the heat of a super-group confrontation 
 or when you take a large team into a villainous enclave to prize out the goal of the mission. Last 
 night I spent some of the best fun I've had for ages simply battling out a 100 yard by 100 yard 
 patch of tatty beach in Warburg, a new PvP area off Kings Row. The fun lasted more than 2 hours 
 as a both teams tried every trick in the book to take control. My own nameless team pulsed with 
 high-powered Scrappers and Tankers while our nemesis had many a wily Controller and Defender tying 
 to lock us in place. Superb fun.
  
  The Negatives
  The relatively similarity of many of the mission scenarios - the core game principle of both CoH 
 and CoV is a contact/mission and back to contact dynamic - was a big weakness in City of Heroes 
 and whereas this has been steadily improved, CoV will still feel a little samey to City of Heroes 
 regulars but will probably feel fine - rather than spectacular - for new players. Some of the new-feel 
 scenarios and villainous creatures have also been incorporated into CoH with the latest version 
 (6.0) released at the same time as CoV and also look terrific but more work in this area must be 
 on the cards.
  
  A warning for WoW regulars:
  When I first bought City of Heroes, some 5-6 months ago, I also bought World of Warcraft (WoW) 
 to compare it - having played neither before. Without a shadow of doubt WoW is a more refined game 
 with much better attention to detail, story, storyline integration, ambient sound and so on - but 
 WoW is also a lot slower than the City of Heroes/City of Villains game universe and has that strange, 
 cartoony-feel to the graphics. Players coming to CoH/CoV from WoW, in comparison, will almost definitely 
 find CoH/CoV strangely uninspiring right at the beginning - and throughout in terms of story/ambient 
 feeling - but the action, team-play, effects, character design, animation and overall graphic feel 
 of CoH/CoV are, in my option, much MORE compelling than WoW. WoW plays much more like a finely-crafted 
 interactive story whereas CoH/CoV packs a lot more fun and action right at the core of the franchise: 
 the development of your own unique, super-powered hero/villain. This makes the two games as compelling 
 as they need to be (ask my girlfriend!) . 
  
  Summary
  As a life-long fan of super-powered comic-book characters the central hero/villain development 
 core of the CoH/CoV game is an absolute gem that NCSoft should only be encouraged to polish, polish, 
 polish. Yes, the story element could (perhaps should) be redeveloped, the mission scenarios/variation 
 could be improved further (although they're not too bad now) and the intros/cut scenes should be 
 improved (to get new players/reviewers into the game properly) but if you love super-powered comic-book 
 characters you'll love these games. Youll really feel like stripping off your day clothes and 
 flying out to save (or destroy) the world when you get home at night and having real super-villains 
 (with CoV) and heroes (if you have both games) on the streets definitely adds to the action.
  
  PS My final score of 8.1 reflects the relatively poor scoring areas of sound, value (it is 
 still 8.99 per month/100 per annum inline with other online MMO games) and overall gameplay but 
 the fun of this game is all loaded into just two of the scoring areas (graphics and overall tilt) . 
 The game is also much less fun to play until you know the ins and outs of power selection/development 
 and if you don't start out with a strong hero/villain in mind when you create your first characters. 
 I think this is another reason the game doesn't do so well with professional reviewers and why 
 I have marked the game difficulty as Hard and the learning curve as 4 or More Hours. The game is 
 easy to pick up but a large part of the fun is discovering how to make your super-hero/villain 
 as teak-tough as he/she will need to be to succeed - and that takes time but is paradoxically one 
 of the major attractions of the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Freddy
Rating: 8.2
Date: Nov 1, 2005 11:16 pm PT
Review:  I remember playing City of Heroes for the first time and I thought to myself "wow this game is 
 cool to be a super hero." There was absolutely no PVP system installed and after the 10th mission 
 at lvl 5 or 8, you pretty much had to find groups in order to advance.
  
  Ok so now we have City of Villians. So what's different about this game besides doing the same 
 thing all over again but this time your not a hero but a villian?
  
  The game control is still ONE of the worse I've played in MMO's. I would still love to move freely 
 while fighting rather then pushing a button and having to wait fo rmy action to finish. This is 
 something WoW has and I don't think any game can ever match it.
  
  What is up with the areas? Almost every direction I would go and find myself lost. I was so confused 
 I couldnt believe it was happening to me. Let's not forget the lack of help the game has from members. 
 It would nearly take forever for someone to actually guide me somewhere if help was needed. Seriously, 
 are there any vets out there or are all the hundreds that are logged in new? I was invited to a 
 guild aghm... excuse me; I mean to say Super Group. There had to have been at least 15 members 
 logged in each time and not one person wanted to group or talk about anything. 
  
  Although there are cool new costumes but that shouldnt be the high life of the game. I heard you 
 had to be lvl 20 in order to PVP against heroes. I'll believe that when I see it.
  
  I'm sorry folks, I can't believe I would actually re open my account for COV when it's COH all 
 over again. I appologize to blizzard. I did not mean to leave wow for this short period to see 
 what COV was all about. You are truly GODS of MMO and I shall never ever test other waters again.
 
  
  The Good
  Maybe a few new costumes but wouldnt that be a huge update to save us $60?
  
  The Bad
  City of Heroes all over again but this time your evil. The map layout is sloppy. 
 There is absolutley no story line from what I can see.
  
  My Thoughts (nutshell)
  Save your money for World of Warcraft Expansion or buy the original MMO and join a real online 
 game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: geldonyetich
Rating: 8.4
Date: Nov 1, 2005 2:41 pm PT
Review:  "City of Heroes, but better" is a fairly good description of City of Villains. The content is much 
 improved, the flow from mission to mission feels a bit less artificial, and the engine has been 
 updated to support some cutting edge graphic card tricks. 
  
  However, you may have difficulty finding a noticable difference in the actual gameplay. To me, 
 a long time City of Heroes player, it's tough not to draw parallels between many of the new archetypes 
 and the old ones. At least in 4 out of 5 of the Archetypes.
  
  Stalkers are basically low hitpoint Scrappers who are born stealthy and have moved some of their 
 AOE potency to single target damage (which can be extreme) .
  
  Brutes more durable than Stalkers, but have durability closer to a Scrapper. Brutes are not tanks, 
 but the added damage can be a good thing if you prefer quicker battles.
  
  Corruptors are if Blasters and Defenders had a kid. Blaster damage, but (to lesser potency) Defender 
 support powers. Their passive ability (doing extra damage against already heavily damaged targets) 
 does not impress much, but who doesn't like the idea of a Defender that does decent damage for 
 a change?
  
  Dominators are basically Controllers that have swapped out their party support secondary for extra 
 attacks. Cool, but not the best trade. (If it wasn't for their nifty Domination power they'd be 
 sunk.)
  
  And then there's the Masterminds. Masterminds are a distinctly new way you can play the game. You 
 basically do most of your work by summoning one to (eventually) six seperate henchmen to assist 
 you, while you sit back and support at range and with powers. Masterminds are pretty good Tanks 
 because you can keep the enemies occupied with your henchmen, and at the same time they're able 
 to be Support heroes (their secondary is made up of mostly Defender primaries) and their damage 
 is still quite good. Masterminds got it all, the only cost being that you need to micromanage your 
 henchmen who, while being fairly good at staying out of trouble, can get you in trouble if you 
 don't keep an eye on them. (To an extent, this mirrors a comic book Mastermind experience remarkably 
 well.) At the time of this writing, Masterminds outnumber any other archetype by about 2 to 1. 
 This may equalize a bit in time, but I'm betting if you're looking for something distinctly new 
 you may be sorely tempted to join their ranks.
  
  Of course, there's a lot more to City of Villains than just the new archetypes. The various maps 
 (including several PvP maps with actual rewards for beating them) , base building, and a wide variety 
 of improvements to the CoH engine (including six issues worth of gameplay improvements, content 
 additions, and tweaks) await you if you were thinking of revisiting the game. However, if City 
 of Heroes just wouldn't "click" with you before, you may find the same problem here.
  
  Some pretty good icing on the cake is that you pay the same subscription fee to have access to 
 both City of Villains and (if you already own it) City of Heroes. It's almost like having access 
 to two games for the price of one, except the two games heavily resemble eachother in the core 
 gameplay mechanic.
  
  At the time of this writing, it's still early in the release, but it seems that City of Villains 
 is a pretty solid product, certainly the best in the series. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
