-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: City Life 2008 Edition
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/strategy/citylifeedition2008/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Most complete version of City Life.
 Innovative socioeconomic classes adds spice to your city planning.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Not nearly enough new features for even a stand-alone expansion pack.
 &quot;New&quot; campaign and scenarios retread old ground.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Mar 11, 2008
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 5
Critic Score: 6.9, 16 Review (s)
User Score: 6.5, 108 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Paradox Interactive
Genre: Modern City-Building
Date:     Jul 29, 2008
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
The latest addition to this family of innovative city-building games leaves you wanting more, mostly 
 because it offers so little that is new. 

  Rome may not have been built in a day, but the so-called Eternal City probably went up a lot faster 
 than the City Life series. This city-building franchise from developer Monte Cristo Games first 
 shook up the Sim City crowd in 2006 with some quirky ideas about class conflict, but it hasn't 
 advanced much in the past two years. While the latest addition to the lineup -- the stand-alone expansion 
 pack City Life 2008 Edition -- is clearly the most thorough version of the game yet, the rundown 
 of new features is shorter than the average bachelor's grocery list. As such, it's only worth considering 
 if you've never experienced this city builder before, or if you skipped last year's more expansive 
 World Edition add-on.  

           There are 8 million stories in the naked city, most of which you've heard before.     

  Still, there's no doubting that City Life 2008 is the ultimate edition of the game released thus 
 far. As with the 2006 original, the gimmick that sets this franchise apart from other city builders 
 is an emphasis on socioeconomics. Along with the usual erecting stores, apartment buildings, bistros, 
 hospitals, factories, and the like, you also have to tend to the needs of six very different classes 
 in the elites, suits, blue-collars, have-nots, fringe, and radical chic. Some groups get along 
 reasonably well together, others don't. Neighborhoods have to take account for this, so while you 
 can snuggle the elites up with the suits and the radical chic with the fringe, mixing the elites 
 with the have-nots or the blue-collars with the radical chic will result in unhappiness that swiftly 
 turns into all-out riots. Expectations also vary among the factions. Elites are the most demanding 
 and always want quiet residential neighborhoods and immediate access to high-end shopping and services 
 like hospitals. At the other end of the spectrum are the have-nots, who are so used to being dumped 
 on that they won't make a fuss even if you stick their housing projects next to coal-burning power 
 plants.  

  This whole setup leans heavily on stereotypes (right down to the sound effects -- click on a have-not 
 house to knock at the front door and you hear the hollow thumping of a fist on corrugated metal) , 
 but it also mirrors real life to certain degree. So you wind up developing cities that look a fair 
 bit like real-world ones, with neighborhoods segregated according to overall wealth and personal 
 taste. Every town you build here will have right and wrong sides of the tracks. Class struggles 
 are cranked up to 11, as tensions flare awfully easily when opposing groups collide. People go 
 nuts all the time here, which makes it difficult to set up peaceful city boroughs. You just get 
 a happy district of blue-collar average joes going, and next thing you know everybody's rioting 
 over some beret-wearing fringe types who've moved in down the block. If you're not careful, punch-ups 
 on the streets can quickly escalate into the torching of apartment buildings and cars. You have 
 to strike a precise balance among the six different groups in the game, as something as simple 
 as a few misplaced industries can send your entire city up in flames.  

  But all this strife management isn't really any different in City Life 2008 than it was a couple 
 of years ago. Monte Cristo has just repackaged the original game, tossed in the extras from last 
 year's World Edition expansion, and added a few new frills. Most notably, you get a new collection 
 of maps grouped into a campaign, 10 solo scenarios, 60 new buildings, mildly enhanced visuals (reflective 
 water!) , and an upgraded editor that allows you to import satellite photos and build cities around 
 real-world locales.  

  About the only significant drawing card here for City Life fans is the new maps. But both the new 
 campaign and the one-off scenarios pretty much recycle previous maps and geographical locations, 
 so while you get many, many hours of extra playtime, there isn't anything here than you haven't 
 seen before. Most annoyingly, the scenarios still don't deal with really specific or historical 
 goals like those seen in Sim City. All the maps focus on anonymous American cities set in generic 
 regions ranging from the temperate North to the hot, dry South. Therefore, it can be hard to really 
 identify with the urban jungles that you're creating.  

           Can't we all just get along?      

  All the other new features are barely noticeable. 
 The 60 new buildings let you add some variety to city skylines, but they're mostly variations on 
 existing building types. None of the new visual tweaks amount to much, and of course you get the 
 effect of the reflective H2O only when your city is near a body of water. Porting in satellite 
 maps is an interesting idea, although it's hard to imagine anyone besides hardcore modders ever 
 making use of this editorial amenity.  

  City Life is an excellent franchise that has single-handedly proven the viability of the modern 
 city-building sim. And the 2008 Edition is the best, most complete game in the series. But there 
 just isn't enough new content here to justify such a misleading name, let alone to make a purchase 
 worthwhile -- unless, of course, you're a newcomer to the series and want to see what the fuss is 
 about.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (7 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: WonderBread88
Rating: 5
Date: Mar 6, 2009 12:16 pm PT
Review:  Summary:
  --Let me put it simply, go buy ANY Sim City game and never think about this game again. The new 
 2008 edition is yet, once again, better, but STILL not enough new features or content to make the 
 game interesting. This game is a bad blend of Sim City and an overly difficult Wild Tangent strategy 
 game. The best part of the game is the graphics; they truly are awesome for a build-your-own-city 
 simulation and strategy game. The game is broken into two different play modes, scenario and free 
 play. The main point is to start off a city with an extremely poor social class and bring it up 
 to an elite metropolis. Sounds fun right? Wrong, this game has way too few features and details 
 to be this difficult. If only City Life hadn't wasted hours of my time and left me with a migraine. 
 Too bad that it isn't possible to utterly devastate my city to the point that Katrina victims felt 
 good about themselves, oh wait Sim City can do that!
  
  Key Positives:
  --Fantastic Graphics for a build-your-own-city simulation and strategy game.
  --Interesting way 
 that the city will "morph" as its social class gets better.
  --Good and large amount of music, however, after a while it gets a bit annoying.
  --Very easy 
 controls, probably the quickest controls out of any simulation/strategy game I have played.
  
  Key Negative:
  --Overly difficult
  --Too few details and options. They tried to make a 
 way to control the economy, but it's rather uninteresting and unhelpful.
  --There is this window in the bottom right hand side, I was unsure if it was trying to help me, 
 or if it was making fun of me, either way it seemed unhelpful and was empty half the time.
  --Terrible loan system. If the system that gave you loans was an actual bank, it would be partaking 
 in many illegal activities including: NOT allowing you to pay back loans, and continuously charging 
 you for debt even after the final date was past. Very annoying.
  --Rip-off of Sim City games
  --STILL not enough new features or content to make the game interesting.
 
  
  Overall Worth Buying?
  Not at all, nor are the expansions. Heck, even Sim City for Super Nintendo amused me more; at least 
 Bowser (or possible look alike) would come through your town occasionally, stirring up some trouble. 
 As I said before, save yourself from bashing your keyboard to bits from frustration, go buy Sim 
 City 4 or something else.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: iceyintel
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 14, 2009 3:56 pm PT
Review:  With Cities XL on the way, monte cristo finishes the CL title with last touches of polishing to 
 those who love city building games, but don't care for SC4 style or don't want their computer to 
 drown under the poorly coded and designed Sim City Societies ( to this day i still get graphical 
 freezes that lock up the whole system with the perfectly capable geforce 8800 GT.
  
  CL2008 Edition may not add a whole lot, but if you own a previous copy of CL you can upgrade to 
 CL2008 for free at the city life website. It enchances the graphics a bit and is mostly noticed 
 in the water effects (nothing much, but it shall last us until CXL comes out) it adds new maps 
 (most of them are easier then the older maps, they seem to just be quickly thrown together by monte 
 cristo and here you go, but who cares) but when it comes to buildings, CL2008 can make a huge difference. The 
 major issue with CL before was everything pretty much looks the same in each society, the CL2008 
 changes that to make the cities look more realistic, adding bounty hunters (which help A LOT with 
 blue collars since the make no pollution and give the same amount of $$$ in taxes as the 250 factory) 
 and etc. The houses you plot also have more models.
  
  The gameplay is the same, still the same creative 6 society engines (which SCS copied but was a 
 failure title so who cares) but if you are looking into CL go for the complete package, which is 
 CL2008 Edition, it is the full experience, trust me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ahmid_milad
Rating: 6.5
Date: Nov 2, 2008 8:01 am PT
Review:  its very unappreciated , its has an innovative designing engine and the graphics are cool but there 
 is hardly anything new to be an expansion plus its has many flaws for instance it doesn't have 
 a day night cycle and the music is very annoying and most importantly the tutorial is useless instead 
 of live video or training you learn through a set of images with some very brief tips and that's 
 it!!.
  some aspect of the game really require some attention like the sound effects when clicking on a 
 object it sounds really cheap and since of realism is diminished when there is no natural day/night 
 cycle but it has many buildings (not that many but enough anyway) and the game feels a little repetitive 
 once you have the secret of success every map will be almost the same.
  so all in all its good but not good it needs a little work but its not that bad after all its still 
 fun to play
  I'd say rent it first 
::::::

::::::
UserName: flyyoufool
Rating: 5.5
Date: Sep 21, 2008 10:11 am PT
Review:  City Life 2008 Edition
  
  Product Information
  
  Genre: Modern City Building
  Developer: Paradox Interactive
  Publisher: Paradox Interactive
  Players: 1 Player
  Online: 
 No
  Age: Teen
  Release Date: July 29th, 2008
  Price: $29.99 (At time of review)
  
  City Life 2008 is tagged by developer Paradox Interactive as a next-generation city builder. It 
 is a follow up to the somewhat successful original City Life that was released in June of 2006. 
 Paradox Interactive reworked the games entire 3D game engine and animations to hopefully give the 
 player total freedom of construction when they began creating their new city. City Life 2008 is 
 somewhat of a standalone expansion for the original City Life. It comes with 60 new buildings, 
 10 new maps, the possibility to import real life satellite maps, and enriched and improved BCE.
 
  
  As with a all other Modern City Building games the premise of the game is pretty simple, build 
 a city from the ground up and take care of it. City Life 2008 lets you construct villas in residential 
 neighborhoods, skyscrapers in financial districts and gives you the tools necessary construct the 
 city of your dreams. You must also take care of the citizens that occupy your city. You must supply 
 them with employment, health care, entertainment, and much more. It's up to the player to take 
 care of their city. The player must deal with real life situations such as pollution and traffic. 
 One thing that sets this Modern City Builder apart from others is its six unique subcultures. The 
 player must keep peace between these six subcultures or face conflicts between them such as riots 
 and fires.
  
  Graphics: 6/10
  
  So let's start off with graphics. FYI, I ran the game with all graphic features set to high with 
 a screen resolution of 1280X1024. As stated above, Paradox Interactive completely reworked the 
 3D game engine for City Life 2008, and it shows. One of the great things I really like about this 
 game is the zoom in feature. After you construct a building you can zoom in to ground level and 
 take on a first person view to look around the area. This is where the 3D graphics really come 
 in to effect. The first building that you put up is your city hall. After construction is finished 
 on your city hall you can zoom into first person view and see flags waving on the flag post, citizens 
 busily walking around and automobiles driving on the roadways. The ocean water looks amazing as 
 waves move around with the current and every now and again you will the shadow of a major airliner 
 flying overhead. If you turn around and look straight at the sun, you can really see the 3D engine 
 colors come to life. The reflections from the water and sun look amazing and the movement of characters 
 and animals in game are great. The characters are somewhat blocky when you go into first person 
 view and some of their faces are kind of smeared on, but I would expect something like that when 
 a 3D engine is trying to generate a city population of 10,000 + people. I'm not saying that this 
 is fantastic graphics, but for the price of the game it is fair to say the graphics are on par.
 
  
  Sound/Music: 4/10
  
  Not really much to say about this. It's kind of like elevator music, only a little worse. I think 
 a little more work (ok, a lot more work) could have gone into the music and sounds. The music is 
 ok, but it does nothing to promote the game play, which is what game music should do. Sounds are 
 pretty much non-existing.
  
  Controls: 7/10
  
  The controls are pretty basic. You only need your mouse and keyboard arrows to fully play the game. 
 Things can become a tad bit tricky when it comes to throwing down a new residential or commercial 
 division. Laying down new roads or other transportation services can also become a little hectic 
 when having to do it with a jumpy mouse.
  
  Game Play: 7/10
  
  Let's get down to the most important thing, the game play. As you can imagine, City Life 2008 is 
 much like all other city building games. You start by laying down some residences so that people 
 can move into your city and then you lay down some businesses so they have a place to work. This 
 is all pretty basic stuff when it comes to city builder simulations. One of the nice things about 
 City Life 2008 is that right above ever residence is a little icon that tells you what the residence 
 needs, if anything. So if you see a picture of a shopping bag over a particular residence then 
 you know that those citizens would like a shopping mall placed somewhere around their residence. 
 The main objective of this game is to make your citizens happy as your city continues to grow.
 
  
  After playing the game for a couple of minutes you will quickly realize the big key difference 
 that sets this game apart from other city builders. The population of your city is broken down 
 into 6 different sub cultures. You have the Elites, Suits, Radical Chic's, Blue Collars, Fringes 
 and Have-nots. It is your job to keep all of these different sub cultures happy while you build 
 your new city. Sounds simple, but after you play for about 10 minutes I'm sure you will be dealing 
 with some kind of culture tension between these sub cultures. It becomes a challenge to keep the 
 tension down because Blue Collars can only work at Blue Collar businesses and live in Blue Collar 
 residential neighborhoods and the same goes for all other sub cultures. As you can probably tell, 
 this system of sub cultures can become a very big challenge and its starts right when you begin 
 building your city.
  
  As you move through the game and your city starts to grow you will be required to give your citizens 
 more services. You will need to install hospitals, police stations, fire stations, grocery stores, 
 entertainments venues, parks, transportation and a handful of other essential services. You will 
 have to fight living cost, taxes, culture tensions, pollution, traffic, budgets and a handful of 
 other real life problems. As you move through the game and your city grows you will start to unlock 
 many new building and venues. When you start the game a number of the constructable buildings are 
 locked and you have to work to get them.
  
  Replay Value: 4/10
  
  Well the replay value pretty much depends on how much you like playing city building simulators. 
 If you like to build cities over and over again, then you are set for hours and hours of game play. 
 If you are not a big city building fan then you will probably be bored with City Life 2008 after 
 a couple of hours of game play. There is no online or multiplayer support for this game, so the 
 fun pretty much stops after conquering your first city.
  
  To Buy Or Not To Buy:
  
  Again, this all depends on how much you like city building simulators. If you where/are a fan of 
 the Sim City series from Maxis, then this might be a good game for you. Personally, I would wait 
 for a good $10 price cut before throwing down money for this game. You may get a few good hours 
 of game play from City Life 2008 before you start to get bored with it.
  
  Final Score:
  
  Here is the moment of truth. The final score is taken from the sub categories listed above 
 and the game is given a score with 10 being the highest and 1 being the lowest.
  
   Graphics: 6/10
   Sound/Music: 4/10
   Controls: 7/10
   Game Play: 7/10
   Replay Value: 
 4/10
  
  Final Rating: 5.6/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JJME
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 20, 2008 8:23 am PT
Review:  Why is there so much criticism against City Life 2008? I admit there is little difference between 
 this game and the 1st installment, but the new content is good content. The game is now more polished 
 and much more flexible to modding. If you liked the 1st City Life, then why don't you like this 
 one if it's still virtually the same game? I understand it is a difficult game to start off with, 
 but it does grow on you when you get to know it better. For example, I started making cities that 
 only had a few inhabitants because I didn't know how to use it properly - and became really angry. 
 But now I understand it, I'm making cities with over 4,000,000 happy inhabitants!
  
  It's as simple as this:
  
  If you have the original City Life, don't buy City Life 2008, you'll 
 be disappointed by the low number of new items.
  Best wait till Cities XL comes out.
  
  If you don't have the original City Life, buy this version so that you will have the new features 
 and yes, it is worth buying. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Advocate
Rating: 1.5
Date: Mar 3, 2008 10:12 pm PT
Review:  This game is simply awful on a scale unmatched since Civilization 3 and Masters Of Orion 3. I bought 
 and played the previous version and thought that it was an okay game of sorts but not as good as 
 the dismal SimCity4 Rush Hour. (Not that it was a bad game, just had a lot of limiting factors.) 
 Everything about this game, from the packaging to user controls and UI smacks of "laughing to the 
 bank" no real time invested here. This game is without a doubt one of the most ambitious failures 
 of recent memory. It is bare none a rancid addition to Paradoxes growing library of crappy over 
 priced, under developed, made for bargin bin games. If you value your money and your hard drive 
 space, wait for someone to either give you this game for free, or buy it for $0.50 at a garage 
 sales. Even bargin bin prices are too much for this new aged failure. You have been warned. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TigerMoonSix
Rating: 4
Date: Feb 20, 2008 5:12 pm PT
Review:  SC Societies succeeded (and i use that word loosely) in what City Life originally set out to do.
 
  
  I bought City Life in 2006 and was completely disappointed. With that being said, I'm trying to 
 look at this game as non-biased as possible.
  
  This game is more-or-less an expansion pack. Inside the game you will find both City Life and City 
 Life 2008 edition.
  
  To start off, the tutorial system is basically non-existent and the in-game help is vague at best. 
 It would seem that the whole objective of the game is to balance out your different social groups. 
 SC Societies has a similar approach but took a different stance on it. While the whole idea of 
 social management instead of real city management is intriguing this game fails to deliver because 
 all you do is end up building mindlessly to even numbers in the most simple fashion possible.
 
  
  This game might be better if the player had been given a little more direction on game-play. I 
 spent most of the time scratching my head trying to figure out what all the information meant that 
 was displayed for me. The in-game graphics are just ok. The HUD is rather basic and seemingly didn't 
 get enough attention from the developers - the same can be said about the interface as a whole.
 
  
  I wanted to have something good to say about the game but I'm sad to say I do not. The game needs 
 good amounts of polishing and months of refinements.
  
  Perhaps their isn't as much interest in social management as perceived. I'm perfectly happy plopping 
 down zones and water towers and spending days constructing my transit systems. If you like a vague 
 social building sim - and not a good one at that, play this game. If you are looking for city management 
 like SimCity 4, you'll have to keep waiting for Maxis to take the reins on the SimCity name again. 
 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
