-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: CivCity: Rome
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/strategy/civcityrome/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Good ancient Roman flavor.
 Reasonably solid rehashing of traditional city-building gameplay.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Derivative gameplay and garden-variety mission objectives.
 Dated graphics.
 Interface clunkiness.
 A bug prevents you from directly clicking on units and buildings at 1280x1024.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Jul 28, 2006
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 6.6
Critic Score: 6.8, 49 Review (s)
User Score: 7.4, 904 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: 2K Games
Developer: FireFly Studios
Genre: Historic City-Building
Date:     Jul 24, 2006 &raquo;  
ESRB: Everyone 10+

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
CivCity: Rome could have been a classic, but it wound up just another city builder. 

  Despite the name, CivCity: Rome isn't the next game in the Civilization franchise. While the two 
 share part of a title and a publisher, Civilization IV was developed by Firaxis in the tradition 
 of the classic game pioneered by industry legend Sid Meier, and this city builder was produced 
 by Firefly Studios, a Hartford-based company best known for the cult 2001 hit Stronghold and its 
 two sequels. So this is more of a traditional historical city builder than a toga-centric take 
 on cultural victories, bobblehead leaders, and all of the other iconic aspects that have made Civilization 
 one of the best-loved strategy series of all time.  

          One thing that CivCity: Rome has going for it is distinctly Roman architecture and brutal 
 games in coliseums with three distinct types of gladiator.     

  CivCity: Rome grafts a simplified tech tree and a handful of wonders onto a clone of Impressions 
 Games city builders from the late 1990s like Caesar and Pharaoh. Gameplay, visuals, and a succession 
 of dreary mission goals evoke a been there, done that atmosphere. The historical ambience is impressive 
 at times, but only city-building diehards and classicists will get much enjoyment out of building 
 Rome, even if it really does take just a day in this case.  

  The look and feel of the game is very similar to Caesar III. The solo-only gameplay features both 
 a small selection of one-off missions along with a fairly lengthy campaign in which you play a 
 freelance governor taking assignments in cities across the empire. Missions in both modes of play 
 generally aren't all that captivating. You basically build the same town over and over again, constructing 
 shacks, olive farms, butcher shops, warehouses, baths, gladiatorial schools, theaters, and the 
 like. Then you meet spectacularly lackluster goals like developing a set number of houses, selling 
 a set amount of wine, quarrying a set amount of marble, building a set number of bathhouses, staging 
 a set number of chariot races, and so forth.  

  Some missions force you to set up watchtowers to battle wildfires, and later even build forts and 
 arm soldiers to battle barbarians, but for the most part you establish an economic system so that 
 you can meet one set of numerical goals after another. This is pretty straightforward. There are 
 no negative effects to worry about, as businesses don't have any negative effects, and there are 
 just a couple of steps in the chains that take items from raw resources to finished goods. Basically, 
 you locate or develop a resource, then process and sell it. Wheat, for example, is harvested on 
 farms, then turned into flour in mills, which is then made into bread and sold to hungry citizens 
 in bakeries. Wood is cut at a lumber camp and then carved into recliners and beds and sold to the 
 plebs in carpentry shops. Fish is caught by fishermen, then filleted and sold at the fishmonger's 
 stall. Sometimes you need to set up trade routes to buy and sell merchandise from other towns, 
 but this is even simpler to manage (although it will try your patience, as mule trains take forever 
 to go from one town to another, even with the game speed on its fastest setting) than producing 
 the goods yourself.  

  Of course, the end goal is to give residents access to these products, plus other amenities like 
 wells, barbers, taverns, temples, and the like, so that towns will eventually grow from a collection 
 of humble shacks to majestic villas and you will become a god of Roman urban planning. But even 
 though this is a tried-and-true system sported by city-building games for going on a decade now, 
 CivCity: Rome is awfully clunky due to some irritating issues with both the visuals and the interface. 

  For starters, the game is ugly. Although it is nifty how roofs peel back to show you citizens going 
 about their daily lives (this also provides tips during play, as you can visually check how wheat 
 is being stockpiled, if olive presses have enough olives, and so forth) , and how clicking on homes 
 and businesses create arrows connecting them to their wandering citizens, the jagged visuals are 
 three years out of date. They're also hampered by huge info screens that block off much of the 
 city, a camera angle that makes it impossible to look at cities from anything even approximating 
 a top-down view, and a bug that prevents you from selecting citizens and buildings by clicking 
 directly on them in 1280x1024 resolution (you have to offset the cursor about an inch below and 
 to the right of the object that you're trying to grab, which makes it tough to access buildings 
 in crowded cities and flat-out impossible to select citizens or demolish anything smaller than 
 a house) .  

          While it is neat to be able to peek inside buildings and keep an eye on workers, the overall 
 visuals are at least three years past their best-before date.     

  Some houses don't seem to be able to access specific resources, even when they are well within 
 their area of effect and nicely hooked up with roads. Sometimes you have to blitz an area with 
 certain types of buildings, going so far as to build a temple on somebody's front doorstep before 
 the residents clue into the fact that they really do have access to the facilities they need to 
 upgrade their hovels. Buildings ignoring resources is a problem that has plagued city-building 
 games off and on for a long time now, so it is still disappointing to see that Firefly didn't completely 
 get rid of this issue here.  

  Resources are collected and processed in different ways, too, with varying numbers of workers needed 
 to man farms and stores, although the game never clues you in to this fact or even bothers to note 
 how many employees it takes to fully stock each facility. While the advisor drones on about the 
 declining amount of food in granaries or happiness declining, he never gives tips on key game issues 
 relating to scenario objectives and you're left to discover the differences between goods production 
 on your own. This can be troublesome, as it's a matter of trial and error to determine how many 
 wineries can be supported by each vineyard, how many butcher shops can be supported by each goat 
 farm, and so forth. You tend to swing through economic booms and busts in every scenario, going 
 from bursting your granaries at the seams with too many farms and shops cranking out food, to not 
 having enough and experiencing a depression in which food stocks dwindle and people start leaving 
 town for greener pastures.  

  A couple of aspects of CivCity: Rome elevate the game somewhat. The historical flavor is very nicely 
 handled; Ancient Rome is well represented by figures from history, gods, archetypes like baths 
 and coliseums, esoteric frills like chariot races and multiple types of gladiatorial schools, and 
 even a representation of the class system of the time with separate types of homes and goods for 
 the rich and poor (the well-off need geese to eat and recliners for their villas; the poor make 
 do with goat meat and simple beds) .  

  Architecture is pretty much dead on, and citizens provide cute, semihistorical one-liners when 
 you click on them, like "Pizza -- now there's one idea that will never catch on" (although it would 
 be better if citizens would ditch the jokes and more frequently tell you what is actually going 
 on in the city) . There are a lot of liberties taken with the timeline, though, as you constantly 
 get served a mish-mash of messages and events from around a thousand years of history. Getting 
 a video message from Hadrian 600 years before his birth doesn't enhance the game's historical feel. 
 But overall, the game still evokes ancient Rome in an acceptably "gamey" way.  

  Aspects of Civilization grafted onto the old-fashioned, stereotypical city building also liven 
 things up. There is a tech tree of advancements to research, although it is tiny in comparison 
 to what is on offer in Civ IV. Specific techs don't provide much in the way of wide-ranging bonuses, 
 either. Each tech basically gives a bump to a single attribute. Mysticism, for instance, provides 
 a temporary 10 percent boost to city happiness. Coinage cranks up tax collecting by 20 percent. 
 Books enlarge libraries and schools. Many techs can also be researched quickly, so you can tear 
 through a pile of them in the course of a scenario.  

          Citizens don't seem to have a problem living next door to farms, so cities generally develop 
 as mish-mashes of urban planning, with everything crammed in together.     

  The version of the Civlopedia included here is similarly half-baked. Entries are explained with 
 short, bullet-point blurbs that wouldn't have been out of place in a kid's game. Wonders are similarly 
 trimmed down. It's good to have them in the game, and it's even better that they include historical 
 Roman accomplishments like the Colosseum, the Pharos Lighthouse, the Pantheon, and the Library 
 of Alexandria, but all they do is boost prestige and citizen happiness. There are just seven of 
 them in the game, too, which seems skimpy considering how much Rome built over the centuries.  
 

  CivCity: Rome could have been so much more. Civ-styled tech trees, units, diplomacy, and great 
 people could have provided a shot in the arm to the city-building genre, which hasn't evolved in 
 any significant way since Impressions set the standard almost a decade ago. Classical history buffs 
 should find it interesting for a short time because of the historical flavor, but dj vu quickly 
 overwhelms any sense of enjoyment from trying to match Augustus and turn Rome from brick into marble. 
     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (51 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: arronizmiguel
Rating: 6
Date: Aug 4, 2008 11:29 am PT
Review:  I have been playing Pharaoh and Zeus from Impresssions Games for a long time, it's quite fun and 
 "therapeutic" to make your city grow up with each individual piece and building layered by your 
 own hand.
  
  This is the case with CivCity Rome, and I was absolutely thankful that someone took this kind of 
 game to the next level... but... well... good things last for not too long. 
  
  As the game progresses, you'll find that life in rome was really boring, given the parameter of 
 this game. Unfortunately, the social aspect of the game falls back to a simple and straightforward 
 need to fulfill requirements in a very linear succession of events. 
  
  That was ok in the other franchises because it was more of a general overview of those aspects. 
 In this game, it's now up-close and personal, and here is exactly where it fell short, because 
 the treatment is the same as the others, which in turn makes you wonder... why bother make this 
 game so detailed, if the goal is the same for every individual???
  
  A little more options like choosing if you take certain religion, or choose to upgrade your home 
 without having an "instant wife+kid" (I mean, the message is "you have no options!"...) and if 
 there's no religion there are no women at all!, ... or the fact I'm a vegetarian and I need to provide 
 MEAT to every single house... at least in the other games you could have fish and grain from the 
 very beginning... 
  
  ... or even the absurdity of people bathing in full clothes (swim-swit anyone?, for an E rated game...) 
 Who was in charge of this decisions???
  
  ... whatever, if you will upgrade a game this far, you'll need to emphasize on giving options to 
 the modern gamer, even if it's an historical game!, I feel like I don't need to play this game 
 anymore... because it messes with your own personal choices. That is NOT fun to play with.
  
  The other aspects of the game are (were) good to me.
  Bye.
  
  
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: mil1814
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 22, 2007 2:51 pm PT
Review:  Es excelente este juego para los que gustan construir ciudades y fundar imperios, muy buena interfaz 
 del jugador, las ordenes son muy sencillas de dar y conforme uno avanza en el juego la estrategia 
 se vuelve indispensable, mas aun cuando no se tiene espacio para donde crecer.
  
  Gran variedad de edificios con los cuales trabajar, un sistema sencillo de administracin de la 
 ciudad.
  
  Por otro lado una vez que se dominan los tipos de edificios se vuelve muy sencillo ir desarrollando 
 la ciudad y cumplir las misiones son pan comido, no obstante esto da a pie a que se busquen soluciones 
 practicas y rapidas.
  
  Muy recomendable para quienes gustamos de construir ciudades . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: seanstorm
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 4, 2007 7:44 am PT
Review:  As strictly a sandbox, no battles, city builder guy, there's a lot to like here. Some of my favorites 
 are:
  
  Character depth-watch your citizens develop from new arrivals, through opening a shop, to developing 
 housing, marriage, children. From hovel to palace zoom in to steet level and watch as they gather 
 resources, bathe, visit the doctor, party at the tavern, marry at the temple, have children, acquire 
 servants. See the little kidniks go to school, rip off the fruit stands, dig in the mud. Each profession 
 has their own style and dress. archeticture tricks-love the way the vendor stalls fit under the 
 insulae, nice selection of trees and statutes, though I wish citizens used the wonders once they 
 are built.
  
  goods system-from wheat to flour to bread the acquisition and conversion to finished goods is thorough 
 without being too complicated. Trade routes can have multiple ports within the city. Very cool 
 to watch the citizens come running for the fruit when the trader makes the delivery and the granary 
 workers stock up, for instance.
  
  AI-I've read some instances where citizens don't recognize some services but with the exception 
 of the schools, I haven't had that problem. Citizens have been quick to recognize when new goods 
 are available. I really like the work/leisure cycle. With some newly available tweaks, you can 
 expand the range they visit and make some other mods.
  
  replayability-I keep coming back; that says it all. I find this game more enjoyable than C4 with 
 better depth (though c4 is a prettier game) and more day to day action for the citizens. My only 
 gripe would be lack of goods control in the warehouse. I tend to have to micromanage all my warehouses-especially 
 when it comes to wood-as you can't set limits on goods like most city builders. this is kind of 
 a pain. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DCFusion
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 24, 2007 7:49 am PT
Review:  Overall, the game was quite entertaining but not so difficult that you became frustrated. The best 
 way I can think of to describe this game is that it is a cross between Roller Coaster Tycoon II 
 (old game, I know, but bear with me) , and Sim City.
  
  The layout of the game reminds me of Roller Coaster Tycoon II in regards to beautifying your park, 
 er... Roman City. if you enjoy laying streets just right, laying out splendid gardens and parks, 
 as you most likely would have if you enjoyed Roller Coaster Tycoon, then you will enjoy the creative 
 aspect of this game.
  
  But this is also a city simulation game, although the simulation is rather simple. As in Sim City, 
 you need to strategically place city service buildings, such as Temples, to encompass the largest 
 group of homes to make spending the money to build the temple worth while. There are many facets 
 that must be addressed to keep the residents of your city happy, such as ensuring their medical 
 needs are taken care of, they have access to water and baths, beautification and so on. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: VercettiTommyy
Rating: 7
Date: Apr 6, 2007 2:07 am PT
Review:  This could have been a great historycal city builder. It ended up... a mediocre game. The graphics 
 from this game kindda suck... although there are some nice textures, they are poor. The sound is 
 almost absent: but the music is relaxing. The gameplay is not very good. The interface sucks, it looks 
 like the Civilisation one which sucks. The research is nice, but the way the game is supposed to 
 be played sucks again. The maps are not well designed, all is too simple,&amp; the objectives are 
 stupid. The only good thing in the gameplay is the camera control, very good. Compared with Caesar 
 IV, Civ City Rome is a weaker game. Compared with Zeus-Master of Olympus or Pharaoh, CivCity Rome 
 is rubbish. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RLJSlick
Rating: 7.5
Date: Feb 18, 2007 6:30 pm PT
Review:  When I bought CivCity: Rome I was looking for a fun building game that I can waste some time on, 
 on a lazy weekend. This game is very close to what I was hoping for. CivCity is a building game 
 that allow you to build great cities to Rome and its gods. You have a huge choice of buildings 
 and farms to choose from. Building a city and keeping them Romans happy is a real chore, you got 
 to build layers of service for your city to expand. For example, if you want to feed your people, 
 you need to make a farm, then have that farmer send his goods to a bakery. Every service need other 
 services to make it function well, and in this I think this game has some depth, because you cant 
 just toss up a building and watch it grow, you need to have support resource to make that happen.
 
  Graphic wise game is just OK, nothing too fancy, but it gets the job done, the sound and voiceovers 
 are pretty well done and it does help you get an idea of what the citizen need.
  There are also battles and armies in the game, but I didnt really buy this for that so I try to 
 avoid that as much as I can. This game and 1701 AD are very similar style games, if you like that 
 you will like this one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: eveningsky_eric
Rating: 7.3
Date: Jan 14, 2007 6:47 pm PT
Review:  Ok, so it's not the best city building game and not the most original, but that still doesn't make 
 it any less enjoyable. Of course, it does have its bugs, but doesn't every city builder? I found 
 this game was well worth the money I spent for it, and that's all I really worry about when it 
 comes to games. If it wasn't worth the money, then it's only then that I regret buying anything.
 
  
  The only issue I have with this game is that the years go by very fast. I mean, it's like a minute 
 per month, which is a bit fast for me. I could probably change that somewhere though. I also have 
 found no way to delete a saved game, which is very annoying. However, that's probably around here 
 somewhere.
  
  All in all, I would recommend this game to anyone who hasn't already played a Rome-style city builder. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stevemal65
Rating: 8.9
Date: Dec 7, 2006 7:09 am PT
Review:  I respectfully disagree with the Gamespot reviewer about the quality of CivCity Rome. The reviewer 
 commented that CivCity: Rome isn't the next game in the Civilization franchise. and he made many 
 comparisons to Ceaser III and Civilization. He described Civilization as one of the best-loved 
 strategy series of all time. 
  
  Is the Gamespot reviewer a bad reviewer because he is not as good as the best-loved writers of 
 our time? Is he a bad writer because he has not won a Pulitzer or some other of the best-loved 
 writing awards. Is it fair and reasonable to compare a game at 1.1 to the best-loved games of all 
 time? Actually, CivCity was at version 1.0 when the review was written.
  
  I suggest this reviewer put things in perspective a bit. He obviously has a strong history and 
 familiarity with related games. However, if the reviewer is going to criticize CivCity Rome, maybe 
 he should critcize himself for not having a Pulitzer or for not being one of the best-loved writers 
 of our time.
  
  I found CivCity Rome to be a fun distraction from other city-building games. I've built large cities 
 in SimCity, played online, and spent hours analyzing how progress in the game affected other game 
 options. But sometimes, I just want to relax in a game. I'm not talking about breaking out my old 
 400, but sometimes, I want to think of a simpler time in life for a little while, and I want to 
 see architecture that reminds me of that time. I admit to purchasing CivCity Rome instead of Caesar 
 III because the graphics in Caesar III were too bright for the old-world Rome I wanted to build 
 and see. I certainly will buy Caesar III someday, and I certainly will get back into sophisticated 
 games. But sometimes, I want to enjoy some simplicity.
  
  Actually, I plan on enjoying this simplicity for as long as I can. Since CivCity Rome is at version 
 1, there's a lot of room for additional sophistication in future versions. There will likely be 
 future versions for two reasons. First, a decent online community has formed around CivCity Rome. 
 And second, Firaxis has the funding and experience to make a great 2.0 and beyond. The recent release 
 of version 1.1 shows that the simple days of 1.0 are already starting to pass. Who knows, when 
 CivCity Rome has the number of years and thousands of dollars behind it that Civilization has, 
 CivCity Rome may also become one of the best-loved games of all times, but I would settle for a 
 good game that give a brief reprieve from complexity to old world beauty. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mentat76
Rating: 5.1
Date: Dec 2, 2006 3:00 am PT
Review:  After a couple of hours of play, I thought, What the hell? same ol' thing again again and again..
 
  
  Why i bought this game in the first place? Because there is a grand reference... A sid Meier Game! 
 But you have failed this time Sid... sorry.
  
  All i see is a struggle of build this, build that... even fights are not satisfactory. And there, 
 the most major flaw i have spotted is although you see the distribution of goods among the city, 
 you dont actually feel the goods flow throughout the city. What i mean is clearly, Stronghold does 
 that much better. Despite stronghold was mainly emphasised on battles and castle buildings, economic 
 part was close to perfect. I was able to watch all the goods distributed even one by one. Civcity 
 is not clear on that.
  
  Nothing new in the game other than the outer city management (world map) actually. The world map 
 gives you the feeling (slightly) that you are a part of an empire. Rome requests of goods and other 
 stuff ... But even there is nothing to do there to make the game satisfactory. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MrGrim6913
Rating: 5.1
Date: Oct 21, 2006 11:26 am PT
Review:  visuals - 3/5 good from afar not so good when zoomed
  
  Gameplay - 4/5 not very replayable but very user friendly and pretty basic.
  
  Campains - 3/5 
 - 4/5 some say its incredible easy others unbelievably hard so its hard to judge
  
  but over all this game is exelent for the first couple of times but after that it's blan boring 
 non entertaining and after having it for some time it has joined a collection of games to never 
 be played agian. so over all this game has truly earned a vote of 5 from me. so even though i've 
 played it for only 10 to 20 hours before it got boring. also this is can be rated for a Bargin 
 bin or broken heck even a WASTE OF TIME AND MONEY 
::::::

::::::
UserName: killahospital
Rating: 6.8
Date: Oct 12, 2006 4:34 pm PT
Review:  Beautiful graphics, interesting environments, cool ideas.
  The biggest problem I had with this game was the lack of room to build, as you have to upgrade 
 homes from huts to giant mansions as they progress. Even with planning it would take a while.
 
  
  2nd would be the AI, or lack of. Ive spent far too much time waiting for things to buildings to 
 upgrade, with all the supplies closeby.
  
  Finally, the game is just far too short. I spent most of my time at the 2nd point.
  
  Overall 
 I don't recommend it, interesting for a bit.. but overall just a letdown. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tuscan42
Rating: 7
Date: Oct 7, 2006 1:15 pm PT
Review:  Decent cameplay and good graphics and sound, although you'll probably feel like you've seen it 
 all before if you've played other city-builders.
  
  Interface can be a little painful, but my two biggest issues were lack of support for higher resolutions 
 and widescreen, and the campaign was over too quickly. It was immersive while it lasted, however, 
 and balancing the various aspects of the economy was a fun challenge.
  
  No real combat to speak of, and what there was was clunky and overly simple.
  
  The campaign 
 maps are well-designed and challenging, if somewhat limited in variety.
  
  If you're a big fan of the genre, and don't like the look of Caesar IV, then this is probably worth 
 a try. The two are very similar both graphically and in terms of gameplayer, but Caesar has the 
 edge in polish and longevity. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: allhailcaesar
Rating: 6.3
Date: Oct 7, 2006 1:16 pm PT
Review:  With a few minor tweaks this could be a real good, replayable game. Combat comes at a way too fast 
 game speed, no message index to read or repeat the last message, confusing granary/warehouse stock 
 ledger, really poor screen for senate requests and the most annoying voice telling you your granaries 
 are almost empty, then, our granaries are empty. Turn it off please! Moving houses around when 
 they upgrade is doable if you plan extremely well, otherwise you take away goods/services when 
 you do upgrade. On the other hand this is a good, playable game. Graphics are very good (at least 
 you can play this on most systems, unlike Caesar IV, where you need a top of the line one) gameplay 
 is good. Wish they'd make a patch and tweak a few things, could improve this game from a 6.5 to 
 an 8.5. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jenymoen
Rating: 7.7
Date: Sep 19, 2006 1:30 am PT
Review:  This is an allright game, but hopefully the Caesar 4 will be better. It has a lot of oppourtunities 
 that it should have used to it fullest. I think with a little more look like the caesar it could 
 be great. But you see that it's the same people behind this and stronghold. When you play on the 
 easiest level it's almost too easy, but the intelligence should have been a little more. Also I 
 think the intelligence of the warriors should be more like you're own to choose. You have no idea 
 when the soldiers got recruited.
  
  Otherwise i think the graphic is very good, and satisfiy every demand i have for such game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wheezy_shoe
Rating: 2.4
Date: Sep 14, 2006 10:55 am PT
Review:  You can tell when playing this game that it was quickly put together to try and take away from 
 the more anticipated (and worked on) game Caesar IV. You can tell that they crafted the game's 
 system of playing directly on Impression's system -- everything is completely the same, except 
 for the idea that roads are optional, but recommended. It's overall a mediocre game, but with the 
 other game scheduled to come out in the next quarter (or two quarters, I'm not certain) , you can't 
 help but be suspicious. With that in mind, it gets put down to a very poor rating. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ddmagnan
Rating: 5.1
Date: Sep 8, 2006 9:47 am PT
Review:  I bought Civ City Rome and I am dissappointed in it. I love city builders but it was just boring 
 and aggravating. If you like complex city builders like Children of the Nile, then this is probably 
 not the game for you. The building aspect is too simple to keep me entertained. Imagine the building 
 aspect of an RTS, without the RTS. No materials needed for anything , just money, and they are 
 built instantly. The exception being wonders. The interface does a poor job in letting you plan 
 the city and monitor everything. Considering that you need to plan your city layout as effeciently 
 as possible to fit everything you need in, they do not provide a grid or let you tryout building 
 placements while paused. As soon as you select the building you want to build, it unpauses. The 
 tech research is a nice addition. That and the graphics are the only redeeming features. Unfortunately 
 they are not enough to save the game. I removed it from my hard drive after the first few missions. 
 Now I know why Sid's name doesn't appear on the box. I guess I'll have to wait until Ceasar IV 
 for a good city builder. Assuming that doesn't turn into garbage as well. Unless you like simplistic 
 city builder games, I recommend you pass on Civ City Rome. I ignored reviews that stated similar 
 opinions to mine above, but decided to take a chance and I regret it. It may be worth picking up 
 from the bargain bin in a few years to pass a rainy day. I however played Tropico instead of this 
 snoozer to get my city building fix. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lengo67
Rating: 8.7
Date: Sep 6, 2006 2:47 pm PT
Review:  There's not a lot to choose from in City Builders, and I have just about all of them. Most of them 
 fall flat on their face. CityCity Rome does not. If you like this genre, or think you'll like this 
 genre, CivCity Rome is a good buy.
  
  I have no complaints about the graphics. Many of the buildings have their own animations. There's 
 a lot going on here, from sword fighting in the ampitheater, to loading/unloading trading vessels 
 at the docks. There's lions that harrass your woodsmen and quarrymen. There's shoppers, strollers, 
 bathers, animal cages, food gatherers, and more than I can list and still keep this brief. Each 
 one has it's own animation, and each is well done. As far as terrain, the textures are nice and 
 quite convincing. The trees are convincing, varied, and rugged. Ocean waves lap the shores. Rivers 
 flow in the direction expected. It's a very pretty package, and with animations on them, the whole 
 is bigger than the parts. This is nicely done.
  
  The sounds in the game are thoroughly varied, appealing, and nicely done. Birds chip in forests. 
 You can hear the waves lap against the shores. Crowds roar in the coloseum. Shoppers buzz, pulleys 
 creak, swords clank, goats bleat.... and on and on. And unlike so many games available in any genre, 
 sound is integral to game play. You don't get a pop up screen forcing you to divert you eyes. You 
 get an audible voice-over telling you status, or pending problems, or things that need your attention. 
 This game is sound rich, and is both attractive and intelligent.
  
  There's a very rich learning experience built into this game too. On nearly any building or farm, 
 there is a button that will take you to the Civilopedia. The articles here will give you an understanding 
 of what people ate, how baths were built, what technologies were discovered and are still in use 
 today, and lots more. This game can help you with your homework!
  
  Sure. This is ONLY a city builder. This isn't Rome Total War. This isn't by any means a battle 
 ground. It's about servicing people, keeping them happy, keeping the Roman Senate satisfied, and 
 managing an economy while doing it. It does what it does, and it does it EXTREMELY well, and lots 
 better than many titles that have come before. But there are elements of war and protection, which 
 should be considered an added bonus to an already very satisfying city builder.
  
  And consider this: At this writing, the game is in version 1.0. By the time it gets to version 
 1.5 and is finely tuned, this game will truly smoke! Firelfy has delivered other great titles that 
 are highly entertaining. Firefly has done it again! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ES45
Rating: 8.3
Date: Sep 4, 2006 3:57 am PT
Review:  When I first saw the initial reviews of this game I was a bit disheartend. I am a massive Civ fan 
 since the first installment on the Amiga about 500 years ago. Since then I have bought every version 
 out! This latest spin off sees you focused more on the actual city you would place. You take the 
 role of Govenor (usually set to Auto in Civ!!!) .
  It is essentially a city building game, but far better than Sim City 4. Although I do like that 
 game too, this for me is focused on a era I'm particullarly fond of.
  The game sees you building all the usual infrastructre buildings from small wood tents to massive 
 villas. The bigger the house gets, the more good they require to fulfil thier lifestyle. So you 
 have to build more farms etc and then shops to buy from the farms and sell to the shops. These 
 in turn supply your population with goods. Ultimately, the bigger the house the more tax revenue 
 you get from it, and as we all know that paves the way for better buildings, more research and 
 the ability to create armies.
  On the down side, I got a bit frustrated with the control of the armies. Although I can defend 
 the odd barbarian or two, I felt that this area of the game could have had more attention paid 
 to it. Saying that, I prefer the "building civ" aspect as opposed to fighting.
  I have been captured by this game and will probably invest in the obvious other title from CivCity 
 to come out. I don't expect much in the way of gameplay enhancement but more of a graphical brush 
 up.
  If you have seen the screenshots then just imagine this game in the 1300's England or even 1990 
 New York! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DidiCardoso
Rating: 8.3
Date: Aug 28, 2006 6:30 pm PT
Review:  After a "light" Roman city building experience with Glory of the Roman Empire, I have to admit 
 that CivCity Rome had a bit more of a learning curve. Quite a bit more. But that's not to say it 
 was a chore to learn it.
  
  CivCity Rome is a city building game inspired by Sid Meier's Civilization world. Instead of building 
 a huge empire and take over the entire world, here you concentrate on developing your cities and 
 making your citizens happy.
  
  When you begin playing your first mission, the tutorial becomes very effective and helpful. But 
 it only goes so far, and after reaching a few goals, I found myself a little lost in all the statistics 
 and management menus. At some point, I kept getting negative Empire Points for each missed delivery 
 because I couldn't figure out how to send goods to the city requesting them. It's more complicated 
 than it seems. I had to build wood camps, gather wood, build a boat yard to use the wood to make 
 ships, build trade docks to be able to use ships, and gather the resources that Rome was requesting. 
 Then go into the trade menu and manually send the goods if I had the right amount. Ok, maybe I 
 should have read the manual some more, but I'd rather learn while I play. It's a lot more fun, 
 and then the second time around you ace the mission like an expert!
  
  Aside from needing a more in-depth tutorial, it's fairly easy to get into the mechanics of the 
 game, trial-and-error included.
  
  It all begins with a certain amount of money, since every building and road costs money. They're 
 placed instantly once you click the land. The first thing you need to place is your Town Center, 
 which is where immigrants will arrive. Anyone looking for a job begins here. The Town Center can't 
 be moved either, so you have to pick a spot you will be happy with later on.
  
  Your citizens will then need houses to live in and places to work in, so place the basics first: 
 a cluster of houses with a well nearby, and then spread the farms and stores around them so everyone 
 has access to the goods they need. Once they have the basic needs, your people will begin demanding 
 other services, such as access to religion, education, entertainment, health care and other services 
 and structures.
  
  You will also need warehouses and granaries to store your food and other goods. You can transfer 
 items between warehouses and you can manually change settings on each warehouse to accept only 
 a certain type of goods or you can lock things in so no one can take any of a certain type of item. 
 For example, if you let your carpenters use all the wood, you won't have any for building boats, 
 so you have to plan ahead and put some aside for later, especially if you don't have any trade 
 routes available. As you can guess, having the houses in range of everything is crucial and it's 
 not that easy, especially when the landscape interferes with rivers, ocean and hills. Many goals 
 require you to have a certain number of houses reach a certain size. To achieve this, concentrate 
 on creating a specific carefully planned area with a few houses in reach of everything. Once the 
 houses are ready to evolve into insulas (you will see a green arrow above them) you can place them 
 above stores, freeing up space for more houses in that same spot. Wash, rinse, repeat, and you 
 will have a bunch of insulas above you stores soon. The more prestigious the house is, the more 
 taxes the citizens will pay. Taxes and trade routes will be your source of income, so keeping people 
 happy really is a priority: you want them to stay in the city and pay their taxes after all!
  
  Most of the city-building missions will require you to reach a certain number of a specific 
 house size or gain a set number of Empire Points. But the world isn't a peaceful place, and there 
 are wars going on in the Roman Empire, so if you want some military strategy you can accept one 
 of these challenges (they show as red markers on the world map) .
  
  As this is based in Sid Meier's Civilization, there is also a reasearch panel. Researching costs 
 money, but it's a very easy process and you can "chain research" from one end of a category tree 
 to another. Researching will allow you to improve roads, make your ships faster, increase farm 
 production, increase stores production, discover services that add to city happiness (i. e. more 
 efficient doctors and allowing marriage) , obtain more tax revenue and even build wonders.
  
  It's interesting to see how citizens go about their lives. If you zoom in as close as possible, 
 you can peek inside their houses and work places. You can click on them and hear all sorts of comments 
 (some are actually pretty funny: "Pizza? Now there's an idea that will never work.") , so you can 
 tell if they're pleased with your governor ways. It's funny to speed up time and watch everyone 
 run around transporting things from warehouses to stores or their homes, so you will see someone 
 carrying a bed on their backs into their house, a donkey hauling a cart full of fruit, quarry workers 
 filling up carts with marbles. There are many little things worth looking at, the game shines in 
 these little details. Lions will come to attack your villagers if you don't have watchtowers, and 
 you will see the guards swirling rocks on their slings and throwing them at the beasts. As someone 
 works at a water well, you will see little ceramic vases line up near it. Trained musicians will 
 come to play at your piazzas and gladiators will fight in the amphitheatre while the crowds applaud. 
 This virtual Roman Empire is really full of life.
  
  Paying attention to the little things is also how you eventually spot certain bugs. For example, 
 I had a small fishing boat get stuck in the water. The poor villager, try as he might, kept rowing 
 and rowing but going nowhere. At some point, he was just stuck through the little canoe-like structure, 
 doing nothing. The boat yard wouldn't send out any other boats, and the fishermen never received 
 their little boats to go fishing, so that was one city affected by a major shortage of meat because 
 of a small bug.
  
  You'll also start noticing that your villagers aren't too bright. As I've said before, houses need 
 goods and facilities in range so they can evolve. The problem is that sometimes you have a carpenter's 
 workshop right in front of a house and the people will still be in need of a bed. Or maybe they're 
 right next to a temple/doctor's office/bath and complaining about no access to that particular 
 sevice.
  
  Aside from those two downfalls, CivCity Rome is a pleasant experience. It looks good, it sounds 
 great and it has replay value since you can create your own maps and make your own campaigns.
 
  
  Rome can technically be built in a day of solid gameplay, but chances are it will be a skimpy-looking 
 Rome. If you really want to get this Empire going, you will do well immersing yourself in the urban 
 planning bliss, trade route setting delight and military conquering euphoria that is CivCity Rome. 
 I can only hope for more CivCities named after other magnificent cultures in the future.
  
  Review text part of Grrlgamer. com. Full review and screens at:
  http://www. grrlgamer. com/review. php? g=civcityrome 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: yurik
Rating: 6
Date: Aug 26, 2006 12:37 am PT
Review:  Well, Ive got to give it to 2K Games marketing department: They certainly made the best of a 
 bad situation. Lets say youre a software publisher, and youve got a city building game on your 
 hands without much going for it: Its not very flashy graphically, its gameplay is highly reminiscent 
 of much older strategy games, and it has serious interface issues rendering it almost unplayable 
 at times. On the other hand, it can be pretty engaging to a strategy fan whos into the whole Ancient 
 Roman historic vibe and who gets easily excited by anything Civilization-related. Question: What 
 do you do to turn a profit on the thing? Answer:
  
  - You name the game CivCity, causing mental associations with two highly successful franchises 
  Civilization and SimCity, even though its almost nothing like either game.
  - You slap the name of Firaxis, the makers of Civilization IV, onto the front of the box, even 
 though they had precious little to do with developing the game.
  - You further attract Civ IV fans by stating on the box that its a city-building game set in 
 the world of Sid Meiers Civilization, which is only true because both games are set in the real 
 world.
  - Finally, you release the game at the same time as the first actual Civ IV expansion pack, Civilization 
 IV: Warlords.
  
  Time will tell if this approach to marketing CivCity works out for the publisher. Regardless, the 
 actual game inside the pretty box only partially lives up to the image conveyed by the outside 
 of said box. Needless to say, if youre not already into historically-flavored city-planning games, 
 this one is not for you. That said, strategy game fans should read on.
  
  GAMEPLAY
  
  CivCity: Rome is an offline, single-player-only city-planning game set in Ancient Rome circa 400 
 B. C. It features two basic lines of gameplay: the campaign and individual missions. The campaign 
 is easily the more atmospheric and rewarding game type, as it puts the player into a storyline 
 of sorts and features a good progression of increasing difficulty levels, while also gradually 
 teaching the games concepts. The premise is something like this: Rome itself has already been 
 established, but it needs various resources and military achievements from its surrounding cities 
 all around the Roman Empire, while the player is one aspiring city planner who is being assigned 
 progressively more important and difficult tasks by established Roman government personalities. 
 Each campaign mission is preceded by a briefing from a Roman politician or military commander, 
 together with an extremely important hints & tips screen outlining the best strategy for accomplishing 
 the mission. A given mission may drop the player into an already established town suffering from 
 some kind of problem, or it may present a totally empty map to be populated from scratch. A list 
 of mission goals is given: mine X units of some resource, build Y units of sufficiently advanced 
 housing, reach Z population, etc. The way to accomplish the given goals is always the same: grow 
 the city to as high a population as possible while maintaining a positive income level by upgrading 
 the housing quality. Put simply, the player puts a shack onto the map, having it generate a very 
 small amount of tax money. As the shack upgrades to more advanced housing types  hovels, insulae, 
 and so on  the tax output of the house increases, allowing for further construction and growth. 
 However, a house will only upgrade if given access to necessary consumer goods. For example, every 
 house needs a well for proper operation; a hut needs tunics to clothe its inhabitants in order 
 to upgrade to a larger hut; a large hovel requires sanitation and bathhouses to upgrade to a small 
 insula; and so forth. On the other hand, just because a citizen wants commodity X in order to upgrade 
 his/her house doesnt mean that person will trek all the way across town to get it. All required 
 needs must be within the houses radius, which is not very big, to be accessible. Moreover, if 
 the house does upgrade, but the good later becomes unavailable for whatever reason, the house will 
 either downgrade to a lower level, or will become dilapidated. Thus, it quickly becomes very important 
 to apply sound geographic planning so that everything needed is always available to the citys 
 residences. While realistic, this can become a tall order as the game goes on  with literally 
 dozens of goods to keep track of, it becomes hard to keep everyone satisfied. To counteract this 
 realism, the game allows one to manually move a given house to any location on the map for a minimal 
 cost, which is a rather cheap way to make the game more manageable. There are no transportation 
 systems (other than roads) to speak of, so this aspect never becomes easier in later missions.
 
  
  Nevertheless, if you are a smart player, you will learn to be methodical about grouping farms, 
 shops, and houses into clusters, always leaving room for more; eventually, keeping housing upgrade 
 levels up will stop being a big hurdle. Given that, the mission more or less wins itself, since 
 in Rome, the formula for success is Money = Victory. With a few missions under ones belt, the 
 average player will figure out a sufficiently successful placement pattern, making each mission 
 about the same as the next from that point on.
  
  Therefore, to give the game challenge and variety, Firefly introduced various obstacles into the 
 different missions. These are as follows:
  
  - Terrain: By placing the various needed resource types (stone, fresh water, iron, etc.) far apart 
 from each other, the player is forced to choose certain resources over others, depending on proximity 
 and need.
  - Economy: Certain goods, like beds and bread, needed for house upgrade/tax reasons, require resources 
 intentionally made unavailable within the terrain map at hand. (For example, beds need wood, while 
 bread needs wheat.) This forces the player to set up land or sea trading with nearby cities in 
 the empire. This can be costly and/or require resources itself (for instance, sea trade requires 
 ships, which require wood) . On the other hand, trade can also be used to sell excess resources 
 at a profit.
  - Military: Certain missions will involve periodic attacks from barbarians outside the city map. 
 Without opposing military presence, theyll just raze the citys buildings. This forces the player 
 to divert valuable resources (notably, iron) to building weapons, as well as much cash to build 
 at least one fort. Despite the very limited size of the games maps, the combination of terrain 
 and available resource restrictions makes for surprisingly varied campaign missions, given how 
 basic the games mechanics are at heart. The challenges also feel realistic, as its very easy 
 to imagine oneself as a Roman governor trying to keep the delicate balance between trade and domestic 
 production so as to maximize domestic income.
  
  The same, however, cannot be said of Romes military mechanics, which are as arbitrary as they 
 are poorly explained. In a nutshell, a fort costs a lot of money and produces three legions. Each 
 legion consists of at least one soldier, but beyond that the fort can produce as many soldiers 
 as the city is able to produce weapons for (up to a certain maximum) . Finally, each legion can 
 contain one of two types of soldiers  legionnaires and velites. Now, none of this is made clear 
 by the interface, but its nothing compared to the bother of actually trying to make the soldiers 
 fight. Left-clicking is suddenly replaced by right-clicking, and only two of the three legions 
 want to leave the fort no matter how hard one clicks. Worse, trying to control these guys feels 
 like the human is playing a turn-based game, while the AI gets to play in real-time. In particular, 
 its not clear where a given legion is, since its graphically represented by both the commander 
 and the little individual soldiers. Theres nothing more frustrating than struggling to control 
 your troops while the enemys soldiers are razing your city at 3 different points.
  
  The combat gets downright comical when it tries to go strategic. Its possible to send troops onto 
 the world map, at which point the combat loses all the drama it never had. One would think that 
 the battle against another city would be a climactic event, but actually its represented by either 
 the Rome icon replacing the Barbarian icon (victory) or vice versa (defeat) on the world map, and 
 thats it. (This is especially disconcerting if you lose.) In fact, if youre not looking at the 
 world map at the time, the dramatic icon-on-icon combat will just happen in the background with 
 no on-screen notice whatsoever.
  
  The one feature that could have distinguished CivCity: Rome from existing city builders like the 
 Caesar series is the research tree, which superficially resembles Civilizations. It is, unfortunately, 
 an afterthought. The benefits of each technology are statistical as opposed to game-changing. For 
 example, Mathematics increases tax revenue by 10% while Highways make road travel 10% faster 
 (even though visually they stay exactly the same) . You wont be researching your way to a better 
 troop type, thats for sure. So, while helpful, the researching feature is a far cry from the beautifully 
 implemented tech tree of Civilization IV, X-COM, and other strategy games.
  
  All-in-all, CivCity: Rome is a formulaic experience, but its a formula that works. Micro-managing 
 city-building game fans wont have much to complain about as far as the basic game mechanics go. 
 On the other hand, some of the interface problems will frustrate anyone without endless reserves 
 of patience. For instance, at the higher resolutions, a bug prevents one from clicking on a building 
 by hovering the mouse over it; instead, one has to aim down and to the side  this gets annoying 
 really quickly. The games citizens also have a frustrating tendency to ignore commodities within 
 their reach, which leads to an inexplicable lack of house upgrades, even though all the needs seem 
 to be in order. This, in addition to the awful combat mechanics, is the last straw for this reviewer. 
 6/10
  
  GRAPHICS
  
  The best words to describe Romes visual presentation are workman-like and detailed, but definitely 
 not beautiful. The camera has a fixed vertical angle against the ground which gives a good view 
 of the proceedings, and it can be rotated and zoomed. While the terrain, including water, looks 
 like something out of a 3-year-old game, at least its guaranteed even a halfway-decent computer 
 will be able to run this game flawlessly. (However, if you have a large LCD, beware that Rome can 
 go no higher than 1280x1024.) So while the game is utterly devoid of eye candy, the graphics do 
 an impressive job of showing whats actually happening in the city; this is very useful. Each and 
 every citizen of the city can be seen doing exactly what he/shes doings to contribute to the 
 citys economy at that moment, and the same extends to the various shops. For example, a citizen 
 is seen sleeping or attending a temple during the allocated free time, hauling wood from a wood 
 camp to the mill during work time, etc. Thus, if youre wondering when that pesky meat shortage 
 will be resolved, its possible to literally look at how many slabs of beef are hanging at the 
 butchers and how far the granary worker and his cart are from reaching it and hauling the beef 
 to the granary. This makes the visuals, which are admittedly bland, more than merely window-dressing. 
 The detail extends farther, as one can see  for example  individual animals slay or be slain 
 by individual gladiators in the Coliseum. Unfortunately, I do wish the games visuals would scale 
 better to gamers with better hardware, or at least to higher resolutions. For a look at what I 
 mean, give the just-released Caesar IV demo a spin (just make sure you have a good PC before you 
 do) . 6/10
  
  SOUND
  
  Much like most everything else about CivCity: Rome, the sound work in the game is solid and average, 
 with some issues that bring it a notch below that. Soothing orchestral music? Check. Competently 
 voiced briefings? Check. Buildings making relevant sounds when zoomed into? Check. But did they 
 have to make your advisors warnings so unbelievably grating? Perhaps Im just an angry person, 
 but the words Governor, people are leaving the city! We need to do something about city happiness! 
 spoken in cheesily-accented tones about 30 times in a row left me barely able to contain my rage. 
 Its interesting that the game chooses to tell the player about good events (like making a trade 
 sale in a far-away land) only the first time they occur, but spams the speakers with bad news without 
 stopping. It wouldnt have been that hard to keep some things just visual if only to keep the rage 
 factor down. 6/10
  
  REPLAY VALUE
  
  On paper, any freeform strategy game like CivCity has almost unlimited replay value. Unfortunately, 
 a Replay Value score is not calculated from the number of hours one could theoretically sink into 
 the game  it only takes into account the time one would actually find enjoyment in it. The bottom 
 line is Rome loses its fun sometime around the ten-hour mark of the campaign. The gameplay settles 
 down without any radically new concepts, and each map looks about the same as the next. Thats 
 when the bugs and the annoyances take over to the point where playing the game feels like a chore. 
 History buffs may find solace in the fact that some of the later stages will allow for the building 
 of great fixtures of Roman civilization like the Coliseum, complete with gladiators. Unfortunately, 
 this loses much of its effect, since the Coliseum will likely be surrounded by a flax farm and 
 a goat pasture due to the games economic setup. In any case, any such rewards are buried too deeply 
 into the lengthy campaign, and I will confess I couldnt bring myself to finish the whole thing. 
 6/10
  
  OVERALL
  
  The bottom line is this: CivCity: Rome doesnt set the bar much higher than its predecessors in 
 the genre, and then just manages to miss that bar due to a smattering of bugs and design issues. 
 If youre just itching for a micro-managing city builder, your best bet is to wait until Caesar 
 IV comes out later in the year and review your options at that time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: strangergv
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 15, 2006 7:48 pm PT
Review:  CivCity Rome is underappreciated by the die hard Caesar fans. I' am not surprised people still 
 like and enjoy 2D games like Caesar three if I had very little packet money then
  that is what would be playing. CivCtiy Rome is getting a bad rap by the Caesar fans that never even 
 played the game. So keep them gamespot messages coming. I have video games allot more then I know 
 a closet full I played bad games and I played good games I don' t need anyone to tell me about 
 video games or about demos most game makers release the game and then they fix what needs fixing 
 the game via a patch or patch's
  
  I have and play CivCity Rome for countless hours and I find the game to be misunderstood by those 
 that interested elsewhere.
  
  The key to CivCtiy Rome is building your Roman empire and providing your
  citizens with a gob 
 somewhere to live and the things your people need to be happy.
  
  I find that visually CivCity Rome is graphical impressive the game works extremely well with the 
 atmosphere of the city art that depicts Roman architecture in her glory Roman empire the game allows 
 you to peek in your
  citizens house to see what your citizen is doing watch them do their chores
  you can see your 
 citizen doing their chin-ups the single mission is a good place to start it gives a number of options 
 you can start with, The easy setting gives you more packet money to start building your Roman empire 
 know what your citizen needs are without any demands form the senate find your citizen a gob build 
 your citizen a place to live click on your citizens house to find out what your citizens needs 
 are your objective is to provide your citizen needs without going out of their way to get what 
 they need to allow their dwelling to advance to the next level as your citizen collects and fulfills 
 their needs for the household your citizen will upgrade their dwelling where a humble shack need 
 water to advance to a hut your citizen needs to gatherup more commodities entertainment
  bathhouse access to religion health and education your citizen will upgrade their homes to a palace 
 and this is more income in taxes and roads will allow your citizens to to get around much faster 
 then no roads.
  
  As Governor it 's your gob to provide for your citizens happiness and health provide your people 
 with shops so that they can get the items they need to grow in to a thriving society without going 
 out of their way to get it that in itself is challenging. click on one of your citizen to find 
 out their work time and their time off work you can allow your citizen time of work to get the 
 items your worker needs to upgrade their dwelling adjust your citizens work time by clicking no 
 the happy face at the top corner here you can increase or decrease your citizen wage rate increase 
 or decrease your citizens rations level and increase or decrease your workers work time increasing 
 your citizens work time will fill the warehouse and granary but this will make your citizen unhappy. 
 City happiness is the most important factor. When your city happiness is positive (happy face in 
 green) people will come to your city but when it's negative (happy face in red) citizens will start 
 leaving your city. So if your people start leaving click on the happy face to go to the happiness 
 and immigration menu to see what is affecting your peoples happiness. Just keeping unemployment 
 down is challenging. I really enjoyed CivCity Rome I find it challenging and rewarding graphics 
 in this game is good game play is good you have allot of options the sound is great I like the 
 music I enjoyed the single mission and in the campaign of the game the campaign part of the game 
 can get hard where I can't get all the items the senate is asking for the mission part of the game 
 range from civil to military but I' am not interested in the the military part of the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tieio
Rating: 7.3
Date: Aug 23, 2006 12:58 am PT
Review:  Here is two of my favourite game companies getting together and making a single game. When I first 
 heard about this, the news made me excited, then somewhat weary, then excited again. Firaxis and 
 Firefly together at last!
  
  Thoughts danced in my mind of what could be... maybe the best RTS/builder game of all-time?
  
 
  It was a nice thought, but that is not what we ended up with. We did end up with a good honest 
 game that is worth a play though, despite huge expectations. Basically they took two different 
 games and mashed them together. You have your Stronghold elements, and you have some Civilization 
 elements. Ok, maybe more than two games, but I am being lazy and giving you a dense description 
 because just saying if you like Firaxis and/or Firefly, this is a decent game should be enough.
 
  
  In closing, I would like to thank the little people who make gaming so much fun. I have no idea 
 who you are, and that is why you are little. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mchudo
Rating: 4.3
Date: Aug 21, 2006 10:52 am PT
Review:  Well... Played. Three times up to now. I was BIG fan of Caesar III in the meantime. And I was desperately 
 waiting for something like that, not a Civilization, not other similar games, not the Pharaoh. 
 
  CivCity looks pretty much like upgraded Caesar III. Merely nice graphics, music also is ok - especially 
 in the intro movie. But not the gameplay. You have many campaigns, but they are extremely boooring... 
 I didn't get the idea why you as a governor, or whoever you are, have to jump from town to town, 
 build new ones or restaure and develop already built ones. This idea lacks sense, IMHO. So, if 
 you need something without battles and almost the same build-sell-win, as Caesar was, you'll like 
 it. Maybe. Because it's soooo boooring. I hope Caesar IV will do the job. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FriendBear
Rating: 5.5
Date: Aug 21, 2006 2:14 am PT
Review:  At first it looked like a pretty decent building sim, but unfortuntely I got pretty bored with 
 the generic and typical missions, with no real action except the odd event which either made my 
 civvies happy or angry. 
  
  The graphics are not too bad, not as bad as the gamespot reviewers make them out to be, not awesome 
 either. I had a few minor problems, I noticed the bug in higher resolutions but its not a gamestopping 
 bug, the only real problem I had was placing down aquaducts, could really figure it out and no 
 tutorial explained fully how to do it, game manual not very helpful either.
  
  The game would be better if more random events such as more wild animals or even more wildfires 
 broke out more often otherwise it does get kinder boring after a while of building roads, buildings 
 and listening to your vagrants complain. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ekranoplan
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 20, 2006 5:51 pm PT
Review:  This game does not deserve a 10, but I gave it one anyone because any sensible person realizes 
 that such scores have no meaning. I will try to keep this review as objective as possible, and 
 not complain about stupid things (like citizens making jokes instead of tell me whats happening 
 in the city...)
  
  CivCity: Rome is all about planning and optimizing. The biggest challenge of building a city in 
 this game is getting everything to fit correctly. Of course this is easier said then done. First 
 you build your houses and then stores nearby so your citizens can buy goods. But these stores also 
 need to be near your farms so the store owners can get the raw materials that they need. 
  
  As your city becomes more developed your citizens will also want acess to things like entertainment 
 and schools. If you left room available for expansion early on these will be easy to provide, elsewise 
 demolition will be needed.
  
  One can zoom in and keep track of individual citizens as they go about their daily routines, going 
 to stores, going to work and getting items for their houses. Citizens will also make comments about 
 the city and other random things. Some are humorous, "I saw a cheetah the other day, it looks like 
 a cat but with 9 heads". Such a comment indicates that your arenas are providing a good amount 
 of animal fighting. This is pretty much all citizens have to offer for interaction.
  
  The military aspect of the game is nice, but a bit simplified and under developed. The biggest 
 challenge is providing your legions with enough weapons. Setting up sword makers and javelin makers, 
 along with a supply of wood and iron for them is critical. In the Hard difficulty setting this 
 is a challenge as your funds are always extremely limited. Forts, mines, and swordmakers are some 
 of the most expensive buildings.
  
  Trade is pretty simple, but finding the funds to set it up can be a challenge. Especially if your 
 pressed to train troops to defend yourself.
  
  The tech tree is also simple. Tje only thing you need to research is money. None the less, its 
 better to have it then not. It provides way of increasing the efficiency of your city so your production 
 of stuff can keep up with your growing population. Evaluating what your city needs RIGHT now and 
 picking the appropriate tech can make things drastically easier.
  
  This game deffinetly has character. Looking at a busy street as people go aobut their lives collecting 
 items and crafting goods is the satisfying end result of a well designed city.
  
  In my personal opinion, this game is awesome. If you have not played many city building games you 
 may find it very fresh, new and exciting. If you have played many city building games, you may 
 find that this game provides that same challenges but in different ways (or will get frustrated 
 and hate the game because your usual city building strats dont work) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Doc2daMAX
Rating: 8.3
Date: Aug 12, 2006 9:14 pm PT
Review:  I went into this game with scepticism, wondering if the people who gave this game such a poor rating 
 really sat down and played the game. Here's what I found:
  
  Although the game starts out with a boring beginning, as well as maps that are way too small for 
 proper building, once you get into the game, the maps get larger, and the addictiveness of the 
 game increases... because, by this time, you have now FINALLY figured out how to build your city 
 and plan ahead. 
  As many people have found (myself included) , there are still a lot of bugs in the game. However, 
 I know that FireFly will eventually fix them, and so I will not crucify the game on account that 
 they rushed the game because wanted to have an even chance against Caesar IV. 
  Many people compare this game to the Caesar series... which is a big mistake in and of itself. 
 Although there are similarities, the method of development for your city in CivCity Rome FAR surpasses 
 any Caesar game I've played. For one, you now have the opportunity to make your city better through 
 research... a quality that I love when playing city-building games. You also have the most historic, 
 and the most realistic Roman housing development that I've ever seen in a Roman city-building game 
 by far! You can track a family from a hovel, to all the way to a palace, based upon access to luxury 
 items and governmental structures (just like Caesar) , but the method of development is quite a 
 bit more complex and realistic in CivCity Rome.
  I also liked the entertainment and wonder structures in the game. Graphically, they look very nice, 
 and you don't need 5 Coliseums on one map in order to please your people (as in Caesar series) . 
 The entertainment required by your citizens is easy to come by, although the entertainment from 
 a Coliseum, compared to a plaza is obviously going to keep your citizens 'need' for entertainment 
 happy for a longer period of time.
  Most of the downfall in this game (in my opinion) , is from the military campaigns. I think they 
 could have done a FAR better job on military units and strategy then they did. As of yet, there 
 are also major bugs that make military movement into battle quite a pain. I DO however, like the 
 fact that you can move your units outside the city to attack another city (although you don't actually 
 control the attack on the city itself) . Yet, they still only had ONE map in the entire military 
 quest that allowed for the use of this feature. I found myself bored with this type of quest quickly, 
 whereas the peaceful campaign seemed more in-depth and enjoyable. Another downfall would be that 
 there aren't enough 'sandbox' missions with large maps. But if you'd like to make one, the map 
 editor will allow for this.
  Conclusion: 
  Those people who can't get past the many bugs in this game should really give this game a chance 
 when the game patches come out. I think the potential of this game to become a classic was only 
 hindered by its release before it was actually finished (due to the upcoming Caesar IV of course) . 
 With a few extra modifications and fixes, this game would ROCK!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: frankienickel
Rating: 3.4
Date: Aug 12, 2006 9:12 pm PT
Review:  I played this game three years ago. It was called Pharaoh and it was released in 1999. I found 
 the graphics dated and uninspired - I mean for a game that is coming out in the year 2006 I at 
 least expect a little razzle-dazzle in the graphics department, especially from a strategy sim 
 game. 
  
  I thought the mission explainations given by the "roman govenor" extremely poor - I felt sorry 
 for the voice actor who had to read that garbage over and over again in his voice recording sessions. 
 The gameplay was tiresome and generally uninteresting, especially the tutorial sessions which took 
 forever to explain the simplest of details. The score and sound effects were average, so nothing 
 to write home about on this category either. Overall, I was very disapointed on every aspect of 
 the game - don't waste your money. But if you did, like me... read below. 
  
  I expected much more from a guy who created Civilzation. I personally traded the game in at EB 
 Games and bought the expasion pack to CiV4 which did make me feel a little better about my original 
 purchase. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: commanderkai
Rating: 4.3
Date: Aug 11, 2006 11:38 pm PT
Review:  But, like so many others here, I was extremely disappointed. The bugs and errors seen throughout 
 this game just makes me wonder if those working on this at Firaxis were blinded by the hype like 
 the rest of us. 
  
  Some features were great. I loved building shops under insulaes in my city. I enjoyed all the variety 
 of shops you can build and resources within the game. I enjoyed the little views inside the homes 
 of all those who lived in my city, but many things were poorly planned.
  
  My first issue with this game: Warehouses and graniaries (forgive my spelling) were horribly planned 
 out. The lack of management allowed the overflow of one good and not the other and created a lot 
 of micromanagement when one warehouse had two goods you wanted to move but yet couldn't since you 
 could only move one resource at any one time from that building. Also, the disabling access of 
 resources to a warehouse made any delivery guy en route lose his cargo when he arrived.
  
  Second: Markets. No City building game should be without a market, but instead, houses either got 
 it from the store or the warehouse. Taking the goods needed directly from the farm/shop was a good 
 idea, but warehouses being the central point in your housing areas was annoying. A market where 
 a vendor would gather all the goods and food needed to be sold at one location without taking up 
 half of your development space would of been nice.
  
  Third: Lack of Space/Huge structures. The buildings are too big for maps that can be quite small. 
 This connects with warehouses again. They are HUGE. I mean extremely big. After a while, especially 
 on earlier scenarios you can run out of space quickly. Also the size of some larger ones like bathouses 
 just cut off neighbourhood sizes because the beginner houses have a walking radius which is quite 
 small considering.
  
  Fourth: The mouse bug. I have lost just as many roads and buildings as most of you when you tried 
 to delete a bad road placement. It's annoying as hell and should of been checked before being released
 
  
  Lastly: Unemployment. Yes I get the idea behind it by managing your happiness to get it where you 
 want but still, it gets on your nerves especially since they take food away from your storage, 
 and not just meat but grapes and fruit, which is one of the most irritating things I have ever 
 seen.
  
  Well, I'm waiting for Caesar IV for now. I don't recommend this game, especially at the price I 
 paid for but if any of you are still interested at least wait until the price drops 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 2reddy
Rating: 3.4
Date: Aug 11, 2006 7:14 pm PT
Review:  Civcity Rome is made by one of my favourite gaming companies, but it disappointed me so much, that 
 I lost my love to the Firefly Studios.
  
  First of all the game consists lots of bugs. I cannot figure out how they hit the shelves with 
 so many bugs. All the bugs are so obvious that one hour of play testing can bring them to sunlight.
 
  
  The game is like the "Ceasar IV". The game concept is the same, there are some differences in "how 
 you supply your city". 
  
  Combat system is a mess, transportation between cities and within the city via the sea is a mess... 
 The maps are too small, too.
  
  There is a resolution problem too. If you run the game higher than 1024x768, it is impossible to 
 click right. Did they test it on a historical computer.
  
  I think you should wait for Ceaser IV and do not spend your money on this game. I just makes you 
 nervous after a couple of hours. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SpookyX
Rating: 5.6
Date: Aug 10, 2006 7:59 pm PT
Review:  Those that have a flare for the incredibly obvious may notice that Sid Meier's name is not found 
 anywhere in the title of this game. Comic book genius ,Stan Lee, once said something to the effect 
 that if the Marvel movies are successful then he is all over it but if they're not he had nothing 
 to do with them. Obviously, Mr. Meier follows this school of logic. In theory, the combination 
 of FireFly's (Stronghold Series) talents for city building and the mammoth which is Firaxis' Civilization 
 series should be a resounding success. Unfortunately, in this case, it seems that these two great 
 tastes don't taste great together.
  
  If you have played any type of real-time strategy game you will be familiar with the base formula 
 of CivCity: Rome's gameplay. Recruit workers, build houses, gather resources, build bigger buildings, 
 gather more resources, rinse and repeat. Dirt Farming at its finest. However, in those games there 
 is usually something that spices things up like trolls or robots periodically invading your camp. 
 Nope, you may have some fires or wildlife threatening your village but its really so unexciting 
 that you may not even notice it if not for the announcer telling you about it. 
  
  Finish one village and move to another village with new challenges to complete. Like Sim City 4, 
 you will be able to then connect the towns to share resources. Games like SimCity, City Life and 
 even Tycoon: New York City at least gives this type of gameplay by having more of a personality 
 but CivCity: Rome is more like Melba Toast. Every facet of the game is just so plain and ordinary 
 compared to today's standards that you may just find yourself contemplating things like I wonder 
 if those Togas chaffed? 
  
  The only saving grace of this game is of course the Civilization contribution of advancing technologies 
 though you may wonder if they really are doing anything for you at all. The Civlopedia is, as always, 
 an interesting resource to brush up on your history. However, it almost seems that the Civilization 
 components were just added as an afterthought then an integral part of the game.
  
  The graphics have 2002 written all over them. Its actually quite surprising because Stronghold 
 2 was a much better looking game than this so I am surprised Firefly did not just use that engine 
 with some modification. Textures are just grainy and drab. Despite some of the cities apparently 
 having large populations you will see only a few characters on screen wandering about doing their 
 chores. Its funny because the graphics configuration tool has all the sexy tech options such as 
 shaders, bump mapping, bloom, etc. but it almost seems like they forgot to actually implement them 
 into the game. To top it off, the Interface is there big as day taking up a lot more screen real 
 estate that it really needs to.
  
  Sound also takes a minimalist stance. Its bad when even the characters in the game sound like they 
 are bored themselves. Sometimes the audio can bring to life what the graphics cannot but you never 
 hear all the sounds you can imagine would be taking place in some of these bustling cities and 
 villages. 
  
  Overall, I think Mr. Meier made a good choice in sitting this one out while the property gets its 
 feet wet. I am sure they will give it another try with a sequel in a couple of years and perhaps 
 it will be something that can make him proud. Right now, its just a very simple and ordinary city 
 builder that never really gets a chance to stand on its own.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ajy2
Rating: 4.9
Date: Aug 11, 2006 10:18 am PT
Review:  It's funny that people are complaining that this is too much like Caesar III, because if it was 
 anything like Caesar III, it could have been great. It takes all of the rules and standards of 
 Caesar III and breaks them or tries to do it better and fails.
  
  It pushes into 3D, but fails to look good. I would have been more happy with polished 2D graphics 
 with strong gameplay instead of ugly 3D and gameplay that is straight up broken.
  
  For starters, why make your building selection screen cover up your entire play view? I'm trying 
 to look at my building area while I select a structure and I can't see a thing.
  
  Evolution of housing is a complete exploit filled snooze fest because you can move growing homes 
 to the slums and place new housing in the open space to meet all of your goals. The strategy of 
 placing buildings in key locations only applies to making one plot of land usable.
  
  Buildings are completely out of scale for their value with aqueducts towering over every building 
 in the game and are near impossible to place without it just looking ridiculous and out of place.
 
  
  Once you have your ugly buildings built and you realize your citizens are too lazy to walk anywhere, 
 try to delete a road or a building and most likely you will delete something you actually liked 
 due to broken hotspots on the shovel.
  
  Combine that with annoying advisor voices, sporadic forgettable music and a military feature that 
 is more of an afterthought at best and you have a poor man's version of Caesar III, heck, I would 
 rather play Caesar II over this again.
  
  I'm happy to have already returned this so I can have extra cash for Caesar IV. Hopefully 3rd time 
 will be the charm for Roman City Builders this year. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: yakaspat
Rating: 6.8
Date: Jan 28, 2007 7:43 am PT
Review:  It's unfortunate that the developers didn't release a demo with such a poor review by Gamespot, 
 but, based on the other great reviews I read and based on my adoration with all things Roman, I 
 decided to give this game a try anyway. And I'm glad I did. True, there is an annoying bug on higher 
 resolution settings that makes it hard to click on the building you want, but, the game devs have 
 acknowledged this and a soon coming patch will resolve this. Aside from that, this game is very 
 fun to play. You can watch your little sim Romans go about their lives, click on them and see where 
 they work and where they live, see inside their homes and jobs, etc. There are plenty of buildings 
 you can build and watch them grow as your city expands. The graphics are gorgeous on my 24 inch 
 flat screen monitor, with colorful 3d buildings, terrain, and characters. The architecture and 
 building selection is try to history, with an authentic, Roman look that other games in this genre 
 seem to miss somehow. My only complaint is they could have added more building types and more variety 
 to the ones you get, and added different road and traffic types. I would also have liked to see 
 more of the political system and some more social elements to the game, to add more historical 
 flavor. Also, a few more play modes besides the single branching linear campaign and sandbox mode 
 that the game comes with. Aside from these small things, though I acknowledge the game is not as 
 epic and probably not as likely to be long lived as SimCity4, the game is still definately worth 
 40 bucks and some sleepless nights. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: meroyn
Rating: 6.8
Date: Aug 8, 2006 1:03 pm PT
Review:  In about a week i finished the entire campaign, for me this is quite a long time so i think this 
 aspect is quite good. The graphics have lots to be desired but perhaps this is because my PC hasn't 
 got 512RAM (yet) .
  The sound was okay, as were the comments made by civilians.
  The one problem i do have with it, is the lack of Rome itself. Why can't we play in Rome? i really 
 think (as its called civcity: Rome) that a bonus campaign level should be added in the next patch, 
 ive completed both the peaceful mode at Londinium and the military at Colonia but its just stopped 
 short. The small clips of the city weren't enough.
  
  I would like it if i were able to play in Rome itself (perhaps not building it from scratch) , either 
 at the very end when you become Caesar or in the beginning as Rome just starts out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: IronSnake54
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 4, 2006 8:50 pm PT
Review:  Ok at first i wasnt sure if i should buy this or glory of the roman empire but at the end i got 
 this and i am blade it is an awsome game you should buy it ppl say that there are bugs so far there 
 is no trouble and they say the military engine is bad and there should be patches but i havnt got 
 that far yet so i cant say what its like but this is a great game you get to do a lot the reaserch 
 tree isnt that great so far but i have to see when my city gets bigger the game jumps somtimes 
 but when there is alot going on so if you like rome and city builders this is deffinitly the game 
 for you so go buy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sesambert
Rating: 9.1
Date: Aug 3, 2006 9:18 am PT
Review:  The game is all about building you're city.
  you have allot of options to personalise you're city.
  i you liked the Caesar games you will 
 highly enjoy this game. 
  also the graphics are great. but you need a good computer to run them.
  You'll have to look after 
 you're citizens needs and you're taxes. but it is't as difficult as it sounds.
  Only Negative is that you have to build allot of shops because you're citizens don't like to travel 
 long to do shopping.
  But it is not a game everyone will enjoy, The real strategy fans will love it the others will dislike 
 it or hate it 
  but i'm a lover 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ADG_
Rating: 5.9
Date: Aug 2, 2006 1:11 pm PT
Review:  The game has too many boring and annoying features for it to be fun
  
  I've never really played Caesar/Pharao games, so I can't compare to them, but here's a small list 
 of what annoys me the most in the game:
  
  The bad:
  
  - House upgrading. You will need to manually move the houses many times during the game. The 'cheap' 
 house needs clear land size 3x3, as soon as their needs are filled, you will have to manually move 
 the house to a 4x2 size lot (or above a store) , then when their needs are filled here you will 
 have to manually move the house again to a 5x5 lot
  At the end of the game this gets really annoying, when you constantly have 5-10 houses "flashing" 
 (showing they're ready to 'move') until you move them
  
  - People are way too lazy. Those living in the 'cheap' houses doesn't want to walk more than 100 
 meters to get their needs filled (food/entertainment)
  
  - Money. So far I have only been playing on medium, but so far I have never had trouble with money. 
 After about 20-30 minutes play on a map your income will be high, you'll have more money than you 
 can ever use. But even for the first 15-20 minutes you wont have to worry about money
  
  - The graphics doesn't really make it feel like an old roman city, it's filled with boring looking 
 buildings. The buildings are just looking like they're "random placed", they don't look like they're 
 a part of the city
  
  The dissapointing:
  
  - The tech tree was the main selling point of this game, but it fails as bad as it can. 
  First 
 of all, researching a tech doesn't take that much time, so chosing one tech over another makes 
 little difference
  Second is the actual tech-tree. None of the techs makes any real difference. This is not like civ, 
 it's not like you need to invent bakery to build a bakery, the bakery tech only gives a 30% speed 
 bonus to bakeries
  And last is that the tech-tree makes little sense in the campaign, first you spend a few years 
 inventing everything in the tech tree while building a city, then you get moved to a new city, 
 but suddenly you have "forgotten" everything, now you need to invent everything again... and again... 
 and again 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hades_30
Rating: 6.8
Date: Aug 1, 2006 6:51 am PT
Review:  I've been playing CivCity: Rome every night since I picked it up. It's not addiciting or nearly 
 as much fun as Civilization IV, but it has it's moments.
  
  The game is a standard city builder, maybe a bit too standard. I was expecting more interaction 
 between citizens and a deeper economic model. I look back at a sim/builder called Cultures, and 
 I wonder why that model hasn't been evolved in these sort of games from the big-name dev/publishers.
 
  
  To be more specific, I figured that I would have to start simple (which is the case) , but then 
 I would have to link many different types of professions in order to get a good economy and civilization 
 going. That is not the case in CivCity: Rome. Instead, a few structures is all that is needed, 
 and they are mostly separate from each other besides the common ones like farms- millers- bakers. 
 In Cultures, these professions seems to be more interconnected, which made for more micromanagement, 
 but that is what I appreciated from these games. If they are made too simple, I think it takes 
 away from the fun in this sort of sim/builder.
  
  I like the graphics. I don't think they are bad, although I have seem much better (Black & White 
 2, for example) . The water and waves on the beaches were the highlight to the graphics, and considering 
 that has nothing to do with the ordinary gameplay, I think it's a shame that the attention wasn't 
 focused more on the buildings and citizens.
  
  The sounds in the game are fine, but I always like to hear more. I liked the background music. 
 Overall the music and sounds added to the gameplay.
  
  I was going to purchase Glory of the Roman Empire until I read about it and found that most reviewers 
 said it was simple and would not be attractive to more experienced city builders. Well, CivCity: Rome 
 seems simple as well. I am finding that the only challenge is overcoming what seems to be a bug 
 or something in the game that prevents some of my citizens access to certain building that they 
 need in order to upgrade their homes.
  
  I could place a temple very nearby, in fact, I've set down many different types of temples near, 
 and still some houses don't seem to realize it. This is frustrating and can really drag out a mission.
 
  
  It's cool being about to look into the citizens houses. It would have been nice if they did some 
 whacky things inside, as if they thought they were in private . . . but the game takes itself a 
 little too seriously, aside from an occasional one-liner from a citizen when you click on him/her.
 
  
  Overall, I am enjoying CivCity: Rome, but I am aleady looking forward to Caesar IV. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KingBobCat
Rating: 5.3
Date: Jul 31, 2006 6:41 pm PT
Review:  Knowing this was coming from Firaxis (and appreciating all of their other efforts very much) , I 
 was really looking forward to this game! Unfortunately, by going into it with such high expectations, 
 once I started playing it, I was in for a much longer fall and a major disappointment . : (
  
  First of all, I thought this was a Sid Meier game, not a Stronghold knockoff from Firefly. 
 I love historical simulations, but I could just never get into the Stronghold series (and I've 
 bought them all and really tried to do so) . Even after I realized that this was indeed a Firefly 
 game, I tried hard to forget Stronghold and really like Civ City: Rome for what it is by itself. 
 But, truth be told, this really IS just a knockoff of Stronghold ... with Romans instead. 
  
  Gameplay is EXACTLY like the Gamespot reviewer said, including the wild economic swings and 
 lack of feedback/information. And the inability to be able to accurately click on a citizen or 
 building at certain common resolutions without literally guessing where to put your mouse is inexcusable. 
 This stuff really detracts from what is already only a marginally entertaining game. And it hurts 
 me to say that about a Firaxis game. : (
  
  All I can say is hold your breath for Caesar 4 (out in September hopefully) and pass on this one. 
 I still can't believe Firaxis attached their name to this clunker. Come on Sid, what's going on? 
 :p 
::::::

::::::
UserName: animeart
Rating: 4
Date: Jul 31, 2006 8:00 am PT
Review:  The strategy - city building fans are surely thinking a good idea the concept of Civcity: Rome. 
 But after playing with the ready game I don't think will be other civilization's name after Civcity:.
 
  Because the good historical age of Rome with some good game element from the Civilization games 
 meet the Stronghold gameplay in citybuilding. The Stronghold's simple economic simulation is worked 
 very well at a fight centralised fortress simulation. But this totally not working in a citybuilding 
 game, where there are lot of social need.
  
  The one of the most fault of the gameplay the "not enough space" in the maps. In the Stronghold 
 it is absolute logic, in fortress there is not too much space. But in a citybuilding game... our 
 biggest problem we don't have enough space to build up the structure of social and economic life. 
 I don't think it is realistic, looks like the economic and the agriculture most problem is that 
 "not where to building"...
  
  The second big fault of the happiness system from the Stronghold. At that moment when everything 
 is okay there are happiness, "the population' rising", and it is rising... But because the , consequence 
 of little maps we can not make enough employment to our people, and it is makes them unhappy. When 
 they are unhappy "the population falling", the un-employers' number falling to. When there is not 
 too much unemployment, there not to many unhappy people, there are happinnes, "the population' 
 rising"...
  
  Impossible to create a balanced city. Our objective just build up the industry what needed in the 
 mission, and switching the correct options between the population rising and falling, and wait 
 until the request good are ready.
  
  We can not make too much real economic strategy.
  
  About graphic: the game's engine optimisation is terrible. At a normal Pc where the new games 
 with fantastic graphic running good with some lower setting, this game can not running with normal 
 speed. It only running good when the graphic made really bad. So we never see as graphic as in 
 the intro...
  
  I think every strategy gamer found a better game from Civilization IV: Warlord, to Sim city or 
 upcoming Caesar. But from the Firefly...
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: pskrind
Rating: 2.6
Date: Jul 30, 2006 9:21 pm PT
Review:  If u guys ever played caesar 3. It is still the best roman genre city builders. Graphics are dumb 
 for 2006. Has few bugs ( Like cant directly click on buildings) . they could have made a better 
 game than this if they just copied caesar 3 game play and improved on graphics. Buildings are large 
 compared to the map and difficult to find place to actually place them . Aqueduct system suck the 
 worst in the game. 
  
  Only thing i like in this game is its stupid and doesnt require much thinking to play . If u just 
 place buildings around any place on map without road people will still come to the town. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: huangzhihao
Rating: 6.2
Date: Jul 30, 2006 6:14 am PT
Review:  First, there are so many bugs that it can't be forgiven even it's a new release.
  The gameplay is simple. Just like many city-building games out there, it does not introduce any 
 new and interesting concept. Also, I agree with what others said about the game's lack of population, 
 and it's variety.
  The graphic is ok, but not that good compare to the new coming C4 and Heart of roman empire (according 
 to video) In some way, even glory of the roman empire has better visual than this.
  NOw, it seems any game involve Firefly studio turns out to be somewhat.... dissapointing. I liked 
 strong hold 1 (from firefly) but SH2 and this just made Firefly unwelcome.
  
  Suggetion-Wait for C4 to come out and we can compare them.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: big_roebuck
Rating: 6.4
Date: Jul 30, 2006 4:19 am PT
Review:  Some of my favorite games over the years have been the Caesars, Zeus, and Poseidon. CivCity Rome 
 is a decent ad to my collection, it will never be one of my favorites or live up to the hours I 
 spent on Zeus and Poseidon but I do not regret buying it. The game has one great ideas and elements 
 to build off so I do look forward to mods, expansions, or patches however there are many frustrating 
 elements as of now. Most notable being the fact it seems to be impossible to keep unemployment 
 below 25%. A great theory that this game uses that the others I have mentioned didn't is that people 
 move to your city based on jobs you provide rather than housing you provide. This seems to be much 
 more realistic seeing as how most of the time you need money before you need a house. However, 
 very quickly you get to the point that every time you add work to take some of the unemployment, 
 you only get that exact same number of people coming to your city to look for work. This pretty 
 much makes it near impossible to lower the unemployment rate significantly. Another frustrating 
 element is getting you employed to live in houses rather than your work. Sometimes, not all the 
 time, but sometimes even if you provide an abundance of house within close proximity to a job, 
 people will not move in, they live at their work. Unless the AI tends to get work aholic personalities, 
 this can be frustrating. Being a part of Fraxis there is of course the research element. Another 
 cool idea to add to this type of game just seems to be pointless. Yes there are benefits for researching 
 but they do not seem to help that much in the long run. Another element they seem to have adopted 
 from the Zeus line is the world map, where you can go and conquer neighboring barbarian strongholds. 
 This is a fun element which was a great idea to incorporate. I do not believe for $40 that you 
 will be to terribly disappointed in buying this game but do not expect one you will be addicted 
 to for hours on end. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ethfawley
Rating: 5.8
Date: Jul 28, 2006 4:04 pm PT
Review:  I like city-building games and I love Civilization, but CivCity: Rome (CCR) just doesn't meet my 
 expectations. First off, this game takes nothing but the name from Civilization. So if you are 
 thinking of buying this game because you think that it might be like Civilization at the city-level, 
 you will be in for unfortunante surprise. CCR is solely a city-builder and it adds nothing on my 
 previous favorites Pharaoh and Caesar III. It is less complex than those games and offers far fewer 
 missions. I finished the campaign in about 7 hours and although there are some individual missions, 
 I found myself getting tired of the game on the third day. Additionally, there seems to be less 
 historic realism than Pharaoh or Caesar. I like to know my place in history when I am building 
 a grand city. In CCR each city seems to be independent. You are not helping to create a mighty 
 Roman Empire, you are simply building another city that is much like the last. 
  
  I have no doubt that I will play CCR enough to warrant the $40 price, but I had hopes that this 
 game would be something new and different in the city-building genre. It certainly is not. I guess 
 I will have to hope that Caesar IV can step up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cuda418
Rating: 2.8
Date: Jul 27, 2006 9:50 pm PT
Review:  Go play Pharaoh. It is better in most aspects. Instead of a push system of service to citizen it 
 is the other way around; should this be better, it doesnt seem like it. Also, managing the warehouses 
 and granaries is a nightmare. There is no setting to just keep things 1/2 full etc. The "advanced" 
 controls for the warehouses are a complete joke. I just picked this up when I was out and about, 
 when will I learn to check gamespot first. 
  Sid Meier, Civilization, Sim City... it has to be good.. NOT. I never write reviews as I am too lazy, 
 but this time I don't want anyone else spending money on this bland, featureless, knock-off. 
 
  
  Still better than Master of Orion III.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: adrianomar
Rating: 6.7
Date: Jul 27, 2006 8:59 pm PT
Review:  I was expecting a game like simcity i guess, except in roman times, but this was a total letdown, 
 i didnt seem to get into it, the concept is great, and i would play this game if it were remade 
 with all the problems solved, but this just doesnt do it for me.
  I was hoping that the cities would show the exact population to scale and have a real feel to it, 
 but this game, the population on screen grows by the dozens while on the panel they grow by the 
 thousands. I dont like that. and the fact that there are no women in the cities bothers me, im 
 not a fan of sausage fests. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Xiskio
Rating: 5
Date: Jul 27, 2006 6:27 pm PT
Review:  Fans of games like Caesar, Pharao, and Emperor will be disappointed by this game. Beside the bugs 
 and the bad graphics, this game lacks in many ways compared to the former mentioned games. 
  
  Following just a few things:
  - a general lack of atmosphere
  - the streets are rather 
 empty
  - no walkers that roam the streets
  - no marketplace, people get what they need directly from the granary
  - tiny maps
  - no complexity
 
  - not much micromanagement
  - bad city overview because of a bad camera and zoom restriction
  
  CivCity: Rome is no challenge 
 for experienced city builders. But the worst thing was that I wasn't able to find any fun in playing 
 it.
  
  A really bad bug is that the game can only be played in a resolution of 1024*768. If you setup 
 higher resolutions it is nearly unpossible to click on buildings becasue the mousepointer is somehow 
 misalligned.
  
  Another thing that I dont like is that the game does not look half as good as it looks on most 
 screenshots. I feal betrayed.
  
  This game is a total disappointment. I cant understand how someone like Sid Meier could have given 
 his name for this piece of crap. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: strategy_god
Rating: 5.8
Date: Jul 27, 2006 4:05 pm PT
Review:  I was quite disappointed with this. Graphics are sloppy, you cant pull out to get the kind of 
 view that a lot of the screenshots seem to show, and I cant changed the screen resolution to anything 
 greater than 1280x1024???
  
  I was hoping for some complex micromanagement a la Civ IV, but alas no. There appears to be little 
 than one can do in relation to the unemployment problems apart from building more buildings, which 
 only encourages more immigration, which causeswell, you get the picture!
  
  On my 24" widescreen the game's shortcomings are only magnified.
  
  I guess we will have to 
 wait for Caesar IV.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nightfang
Rating: 4.7
Date: Jul 27, 2006 1:25 pm PT
Review:  I played thie game for several hours, trying to convince myself that it was not an overglorified 
 version of Stronghold 2, but in the end, all of the same elements are there. I found it difficult 
 to call the game "fun".
  
  No widescreen support is a problem. You can edit the XML file with the graphics settings in it, 
 but all it does is stretch the screen, no actual useful resizing. The interface is UGLY and blocks 
 off too much of the screen. Then, to make it worse, you cannot pan the camera up or down to get 
 a top down view or a street level view. You can rotate or zoom, but not up or down.
  
  Give this one a miss. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: brilhasti
Rating: 6.3
Date: Jul 27, 2006 12:22 pm PT
Review:  I'll keep this short and sweet.
  
  The game play in CivCity Rome is extremely close to the Caesar games and all of their clones. The 
 game is not very deep. The campain did not grab my attention at all. The tech tree seems added 
 on just for the sake of the "Civ" title. The menus look amateurish. Interface is not very intuitive. 
 On top of all this the game has some major bugs.
  
  Having said all that, the game is not awful either. It's just not anything special - at all. You 
 can definitely skip this one unless you're just dying for another city builder. Hardcore Civ fans 
 like myself will very likely be bored with the lack of depth and poor interface. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Vendayn
Rating: 3.4
Date: Jul 26, 2006 8:38 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay: Well, first thing is GotRE (Glory of the Roman Empire) is better in most aspects. Why? 
 For one people are on the street doing things in CivCity you barely see anyone. GotRE lacked Roman 
 Buildings. Another problem is I found it way too easy, good or bad depending on who you are. Another 
 thing I hate... I place a building down and it insta builds. You don't get to see it build or anything. 
 I liked researching technologies, thats a good feature I like that I want to see in more city builders. 
 The biggest letdown was the aweful land you build on. Imagine one plot of City Life (without buying 
 other plots) and shrink it A LOT so much that you can barely build anything and thats how big of 
 property you get. I wanted Roman sized towns/cities... not tiny villages. Although maybe this changes 
 way later in the game I don't know. 3/10
  
  Graphics: I've heard many people hate/dislike the graphics. I found them good myself, the thing 
 I hated was just seeing a few people on my screen. Nothing spectacular so, GotRE is a little better 
 in this aspect. The camara the way it is makes it very hard to see stuff/select buildings or place 
 buildings. Which placing buildings is very important because of such a small land piece. 4.5/10
 
  
  Sound: Usually I like the music/sound in the game. There is barely any sound or music. For some 
 reason after the game is played after 30min or so every sound stops and you can't hear anything. 
 2/10
  
  Overall: I'm not impressed at all. The tiny land propertys is a real letdown. Not many citizens 
 in the "village". There are a few features I liked that I mentioned but not worth playing at all. 
 3/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Osiris1975
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jul 27, 2006 8:19 am PT
Review:  I picked this game up yesterday and it kept me up playing until 2:30am. It definitely has that 
 'one mure turn' quality to it, even though there aren't actual turns. Let me break down my review 
 on based on the 5 categories:
  
  Gameplay
  I found the gameplay to be highly enjoyable. Planning plays an important part of your city, since 
 the layout is very much tied in to the economy. There is a chain of products between a resource 
 that you farm or mine to its eventual form to the consumer (your citizens) and trying to lay out 
 a logical city based on these product chains is fun and challenging. When thing I particularly 
 enjoyed seeing unfold was in a mission where I was to supply Rome with wheat by sea, but I had 
 to first trade for that wheat, also by sea. I missed several deadlines for wheat shipments, which 
 the Roman senate frowned upon, even though I had 3 trading docks. Then I realized that my problem 
 wasn't in my trading ships, but the fact that they had to haul the wheat all the way to the other 
 end of my city to place it in a warehouse before i could ship it to Rome. So I planted 3 warehouses 
 next to my docks, researched some tech that made unloading of ships faster, and voila, I had wheat 
 flowing out of my ears :) This synergy of technology, geography, and economy is really what this 
 game is all about, and the trick is to find the right balance to make a great city. All the while 
 you still have to take care of your population, providing their needs so they stick around to keep 
 the tech/geo/economic engine running.
  
  Graphics
  
  This is argueably the weakest part of the game. While I disagree with the Gamespy review that the 
 graphics are 'ugly', they certainly arent very inspired. The main menus are pretty plain, but the 
 do the job, and personally I care about the city graphics more then the menu. I would also note 
 that their is a mouse pointer bug when playing at 1280x1024 where the pointer is offset from its 
 actual position, causing you to click on neighboring buildings and not the one the pointer is on. 
 
  
  Sound
  
  I like the musical score for this game so far, and I think the voice acting is great. Click on 
 your citizens and they will give voiced comments about their neighbors as well as useful feedback 
 about your city, like there aren't enough temples and so forth. 
  
  Value
  
  I've played the campaign for about 6 hours now, and I'd say I've only uncovered about 30% of the 
 content. The campaign takes you gradually into all the games concepts, and I have yet to get to 
 the military parts of the game yet. Based on this, I'd say theres some good depth to this game, 
 though I havent tried any of the 'sandbox' modes yet.
  
  So to summarize:
  
  Good engaging and deep gameplay.
  Uninspired graphics and menus. 
  Good music and voice acting.
 
  
  Whether this is the type of game I end up playing for a few days or a few weeks/months, remains 
 to be seen, but though not flawless, I do enjoy it so far. I do think Caesar IV will be better, 
 but this is a good game to tide you over until it is released.
  
  Updated information:
  
  I've played some more, yet another night staying up until 2:30 am :) Some more impressions, 
 I felt I didnt spend enough time on a few gripes about the game that I hope will get patched.
 
  
  Maps:
  One original gripe was that the maps are too small. For the first 5-6 missions, this is true. Eventually 
 you will get to a mission on Crete in the Campaign. This map is twice the size of the previous 
 maps. The campaign builds you up slowly, giving you more options, responsibilities, and with those 
 comes more land in which to fulfill those responsibilities. The game treats you as if you are a 
 fledgeling city planner in the employ of Rome's movers and shakers, so hence you have to start 
 from the ground up and earn a reputation by completing simple missions first. 
  
  Camera:
  This is one of my biggest gripes. There is no way to adjust the angle of the camera. 
 A top down view would come in handy often, but you are forced to rotate your camera around often 
 to make up for this shortcoming. Its a pretty gross oversight in my opinion to have such a primitive 
 camera angle system.
  
  Citizens:
  I saw alot of complaints about not enough visible citizens. This is only partly true. You do see 
 all the workers, and the citizens do spend alot of times in their homes. They have children (including 
 one that keeps picking a flower garden I placed and forcing me to put it down again) . True, you 
 won't see the masses of people that you see in a game like City Life, but then again, cities were 
 not as big back then. I think the lack of citizenry is a factor that most buildings in the game 
 take up alot of space for the number of people that employ them. Wineries, for example, only employ 
 one person, as do most shops. 
  
  I still haven't gotten to the military portions of the game, and some have inquired about the map 
 editor, there is indeed one, but I havent played around with it yet.
  
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
