-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Civilization IV
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/strategy/civilizationiv/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Intriguing new gameplay options plus even more-refined core gameplay.
 Great presentation with powerful new 3D engine and great new soundtrack.
 Much easier to fit into your schedule, but also offers many more strategic options.
 Leonard Nimoy.
 Warning: The highly addictive gameplay will make you lose sleep.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Endgames can sometimes still bog down, even though games are much faster to finish overall.
 Faster pace seems to de-emphasize historical context somewhat.
 Warning: The highly addictive gameplay will make you lose sleep.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Oct 26, 2005
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 9.4
Critic Score: 9.3, 64 Review (s)
User Score: 9.1, 14,255 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: 2K Games
Developer: Firaxis Games
Genre: Historic Turn-Based...
Date:     Oct 25, 2005 &raquo;  
ESRB: Everyone 10+

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
If you have even a passing interest in strategy games, world history, or getting less sleep at night, 
 you owe it to yourself to give Civilization IV a try. 

  If you're a fan of the incredibly addictive Civilization strategy series and haven't bought Civilization 
 IV yet, you can probably stop reading now to go buy the game. Civ IV makes plenty of great changes 
 and additions to just about every aspect of the hazardously habit-forming strategy blueprint that 
 famed designer Sid Meier and his talented team have made famous the world over, from combat to 
 diplomacy to research to production to winning the space race. And just like with previous games 
 in the series, Civ IV's varied and addictive gameplay offers the same tantalizing siren's song 
 that will tempt you to take "just one more turn." Fundamentally, this is a much-improved version 
 of the same Civ games we've all been playing and desperately trying to put down for years. And 
 that's far from a bad thing. In fact, it's an awesome thing.  

          It's time to get hooked all over again on the addictive Civilization formula. Get those 
 alarm clocks ready.     

  If you're familiar with the Civilization series, then you're already well aware that they've traditionally 
 been turn-based strategy games that let you play as the political leader of one of the world's 
 nations (such as Gandhi of India or Julius Caesar of Rome) in a fictitious bid to take over the 
 globe, starting from the Stone Age and continuing right on through to the Space Age by having a 
 lone settler unit build your first city on the way to establishing whatever advanced society you 
 choose to design over the course of dozens of turns. The series gives you plenty of ways to do 
 this, such as conquering your neighbors, researching advanced technology, or, in Civilization III 
 (and IV) , creating the most cultured society on the planet. It's this great variety that helps 
 give Civ IV the same alarmingly addictive quality its predecessors carried. And thanks to its many 
 improvements, major and minor, and its greater emphasis on strategy over bean-counting, Civ IV 
 isn't just as good as Civ has ever been... it's better.  

  Like in previous games, your political leader has two special traits that will influence his or 
 her reign, though all the game's traits are new, such as "organized," which cuts down on maintenance 
 costs, or "expansive," which generates bonus health in cities and helps hasten growth and expansion. 
 And Civilization IV fundamentally offers the same goals, but in a much more evolved, more strategic, 
 and ultimately more rewarding manner. And each of these goals comes with many more options, which 
 should open the game up to players with busy schedules... even if it may still seem overwhelming 
 to beginners.  

  The Civ series' gameplay has several components, and almost every single one of them is improved 
 in Civ IV. For instance, the series' combat system, which pits different military units against 
 one another based on relative unit strength and technology, has been changed to a "strength" system 
 that seems more intuitive. Units that are greatly advanced will have a clear advantage over more-primitive 
 ones (to avoid the commonly cited, though rare, case of a tribal spearman defeating a tank in previous 
 games) , and military units in general have many different upgrades they can earn as they receive 
 experience points and gain power levels. In addition, artillery has been tweaked to be much more 
 useful. It can bombard targets, such as enemy cities, to lower defenses and to deal collateral 
 damage to large "stacks" of armies. These improvements don't make battles all that much more complicated 
 , but they do add more depth to combat, since both attackers and defenders have more factors to 
 consider.  

  Civ IV has also improved on the way diplomacy works. While you can still make nice with your neighbors 
 (and you can even win the game with a diplomatic victory condition) , you have more options than 
 just trading goods, cities, technologies, and/or relations. You can attempt to influence your neighbors 
 to make war or peace with other neighbors, and you can even fence everyone out of your backyard 
 using the game's new "open borders" system. In previous games, neighboring nations could send their 
 city-building settlers and their soldiers wandering across your nation, free to declare war on 
 your vulnerable home cities and worker civilians unless you complained strenuously (which sometimes 
 caused them to declare war anyway) . In Civ IV, the new border system means that no units from any 
 other country can enter yours unless you have agreed to open borders with that particular country... or 
 unless you're at war with that particular country. This is a godsend for defensive players who 
 prefer to hang back to develop an economic, scientific, or cultural infrastructure without fear 
 of ambush. However, even this new addition is balanced, since keeping your borders locked up tightly 
 and never coming to your neighbors' aid doesn't make many friends. Other nations actually remember 
 your actions and are poorly disposed if you refuse them too many favors.  

          The new religion system doesn't fundamentally change the gameplay when all is said and 
 done, but it's certainly interesting.     

  You can make neighboring cities more apt to like you by adopting the same religion. One of Civ 
 IV's brand-new features is the religion system, which is an intriguing addition, even if it isn't 
 crucial to your success. The game's new religion system adds seven new creeds to the game, each 
 of which is tied to a specific technology and each of which can influence your cities' culture-producing 
 temple structures and missionaries. However, aside from the facts that some religions become available 
 earlier in the game than others (since they're tied to earlier technologies) and that different 
 religions lead to a different unique building (more on that later) , all religions are pretty similar. 
 Your overriding goal, should you choose to pursue a religious path, is to have all your cities -- and 
 your rival nations' cities -- subscribe to the same faith: yours. Religious buildings also produce 
 a bonus to culture, which is helpful if you're pursuing a strategy of rapid expansion (since cities 
 with high culture automatically expand to take up more of the map, just like in Civ III) or of 
 cultural victory. But there's no religion-based victory condition, and aside from these bonuses, 
 religion isn't a hugely influential addition to the game. And it doesn't actually need to be a 
 part of your strategy.     

  On the other hand, pursuing a strategy of cultural supremacy has been greatly improved in Civ IV. 
 Nearly all cities generate a certain number of "culture points" by default each turn, so focusing 
 heavily on cultural expansion by building culture-producing structures in your towns -- such as religious 
 temples -- can hasten your expansion that much more quickly. If you focus specifically on developing 
 your cities along a specific strategy, such as cultural advancement, they may produce a "great 
 person," one of the game's all-new special units.  

          Great people can add huge bonuses to your cities, among other things.     

  The new 
 great people system is an interesting and useful addition that will probably be especially appreciated 
 by experts. Great people can be expended in exchange for a number of powerful abilities. For instance, 
 the culture-producing unit, the great artist, can be used to create an artistic masterpiece in 
 a specific city, which drops a "culture bomb" that instantly generates thousands of culture points 
 and greatly expands that city's borders. And depending on your strategy, as well as which technologies 
 you've chosen to research, you'll also be able to create great military leaders, scientists, and 
 religious prophets, who can all be used to create other powerful effects, like combining two or 
 more great people to start a "golden age," in which your empire's production of units and structures 
 is greatly increased. As it turns out, one of the game's all-new leader traits, "philosophical," 
 increases your chances of producing a great person. So pursuing these powerful units seems like 
 a viable strategy, though they don't seem overwhelmingly powerful, especially since they're extremely 
 fragile and disappear whenever any of their abilities are used.  

  Civ IV makes a turn for the better by emphasizing strategic planning in general, which ultimately 
 makes the game more balanced. For instance, worker units, which could previously only build a few 
 improvements on land (such as roads, irrigation, and, later, railroad tracks) , now have a huge 
 number of appealing options to build, such as revenue-producing cottages, food-producing farms, 
 animal-herding pastures, and many others. (And Civ IV's new interface lets you develop your cities 
 without even opening the city menu.)  

  Also, just like in previous Civ games, you use each of your cities to produce units or structural 
 improvements by expending production points over a series of turns. But unlike in previous games, 
 if you change your project before it's done, you can't simply transfer those production points 
 over to your new project. This old exploit, of building an expensive and time-consuming project 
 (like a great wonder of the world) and then switching production at the last second by dumping 
 the points into another project, is gone. And this is ultimately for the best, since you'll be 
 making the decisions to invest in production  before  you start rather than halfway through. In 
 addition, Civ IV has done away with Civ III's "industrious" leader trait, which sped production 
 of all projects and was a bit too powerful in some cases. Every game of Civ IV has a much slower 
 start, since all nations start off on even footing. But once they get started, every nation in 
 the game has the ability to really get going quickly.  

  In response to fan requests to adjust the pace of the game, developer Firaxis has added three speeds: 
 the surprisingly fast normal speed, the even-faster quick speed (in which you gain money, resources, 
 and technology at a faster rate) , and the slower-paced epic speed. While epic speed seems better 
 suited to purists who prefer to take their time, the quick and the normal speed are conducive to 
 much faster play. In fact, in quick speed it can actually take as little as an hour or two (or 
 less) to take over the world. And even normal speed moves at a brisk pace.  

          You'll research new technologies and advances so quickly that it can all sometimes seem 
 like a blur.     

  In fact, once you get your production and research going in the right direction, several of the 
 game's early epochs will pass you by in a blur, as you're constantly bombarded by alert messages 
 that let you know your cities have built this or that project, that you've researched this or that 
 technology, that you've recovered this or that tech from a nearby tribal village (more commonly 
 known as a "goodie hut," which is a random spot on the map that can offer free bonuses) , or that 
 you've advanced to a certain epoch. As it turns out, different technologies aren't tied to specific 
 epochs anymore, so you're free to pursue some technologies in advance of others. In fact, fans 
 of the Civilization series' focus on world history may be somewhat disappointed that Civ IV no 
 longer emphasizes the different eras, or dresses up its world leaders in different clothing as 
 time goes by. However, even if the passage of time sometimes seems to have less structure and less 
 individual character, you'll still be up well past your bedtime playing the game.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (756 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: GG-raaaaiiiiiii
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 10, 2009 1:53 pm PT
Review:  Let me start out by saying if you haven't played this game, then you should. If you haven't played 
 any Civilization games ever, then you should be ashamed of yourself. It is one of the greatest 
 series of games of all time.
  
  As far as Civilization 4 goes, it is almost perfect. There are two issues that I have, one minor 
 and one slightly more than minor. The minor issue is that they still haven't brought back the ability 
 to play on a map designed after Earth. I loved back in the first Civ being able to start out where 
 a civilization is actually located, and dealing with situations differently then history had played 
 out.
  
  The more critical problem that I have with Civilization 4 is that with the increased ways in order 
 to win the game, I just don't find most of them useful or even attainable most of the time. I find 
 it almost impossible to win through conquering all of the other civs if I let the game progress 
 past the early stages (let's say to gunpowder) . By this time, most of the map has been filled with 
 cities and other civilizations, so when I try to start conquering others, I end up winning by having 
 most of the landmass instead of actually beating everyone.
  
  These two issues take only .5 away from my score of the game. Why is that? Because the game is 
 absolutely stellar, and two minor issues like those cannot take away from how great it is already. 
 Gameplay is spectacular and fits all styles. If you are a tedious micro-manager, then you can manually 
 choose every aspect of what you build and what goes on each turn. If you prefer to spend all of 
 your time moving armies around the map and planning assaults, then you can automate all of your 
 cities and workers. I find myself more on the micro-managing end, except that I automate my workers 
 most of the time.
  
  The AI in the game is great, and scales onto a large amount of difficulties. There are so many 
 customization options in game rules and settings that countless different variations of play can 
 take place. Other civilizations also have attitudes based on what leaders they have, which is entertaining. 
 It is also nice that attitudes can vary based on how you interact with others, so even Gandhi will 
 use an army to crush you if you break treaties over and over. 
  
  The sheer amount of things that happen in this game are mind-blowing. It's amazing what a game 
 is capable of when you opt for gameplay value over spectacular graphics and the wow-factor. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: umbra_aeterna
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 22, 2009 8:10 am PT
Review:  First of all, if you expect something like the Age of Empires-series, this is nothing for you. 
 
  
  I know there is confusion, and many people compare it to AoE, but that's about the stupidest thing 
 one can do.
  
  Why? Read on:
  
  1) This is a TBS-game. Everything happens in turns. You build your cities, expand your territory 
 by achieving cultural goals, you build your army to try and crush your enemies (or at least you 
 try to defend it against people that try to crush you) , ... But this happens in turns: 2 turns 
 to construct a Warrior unit, 15 turns to build a building, 7 turns to research a technology,... 
 You get the picture. 
  
  2) Different ways to achieve victory. You have about six victory conditions that can be met (you 
 do not have to accomplish six goals at once) , instead of just 'wipe out your enemies'. You can 
 accomplish victory by having the highest score at a certain point in the game, you can accomplish 
 victory by wiping out all your enemies, by having 70% of total world population + 40% territory, 
 get elected by the UN as world leader, by having three Legendary cities (cultural) , or be the first 
 to send a colony into space.
  
  3) From 4000 BC to 2050 AD. In the first Age of Empires, you started in the prehistory and could 
 play until the Iron Age. In the subsequent games, you had different ages that you could achieve, 
 but you could never go into the Space Age for instance. In Civ4, this is possible. It is possible 
 to fight off the US Navy Seals with Longbowmen, although you're never sure that this will work.
 
  
  4) Diplomacy is essential. Of course, you can declare war upon every single civilization in the 
 game, but having them all at once would mean your utter demise in less than 30 minutes. You have 
 to carefully select your allies, decide whom you're going to approve to enter your lands and so 
 on. In Age of Empires, you could very well manage alone, but in Civ4, it's more or less impossible.
 
  
  5) It's addictive. I've always found that Age of Empires lacked something really interesting to 
 boost the addiction factor, but in Civ4, you have the well known  
 - feeling, and you will still find yourself playing at 6 o' clock in the morning...
  
  Of course, it's not all roses here: it's definitely not for everyone, and the graphics are a bit 
 underrated nowadays. Also, if you're looking for a historically correct game, you'll have to find 
 something else to play, as it's very well possible that George Washington will be born around 2000 
 AD in Arabia, which was (of course) not the case.
  
  Oh, and one more word about the demo: the demo does not give a good overall view of the game. Try 
 to play it at a friend's house or buy it (you can get it for a penny nowadays) .
  
  Conclusion: if you're into TBS-games, citybuilding, management and history, you should definitely 
 get this game. If you expect an Age of Empires-clone: buy Age of Empires III or Empire Earth... 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Stan42
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 5, 2009 2:32 am PT
Review:  The Good:
  -Learn some history while playing vidya games!
  -Superb Soundtrack
  -Simple but perfect game formula.
  -Addicting
  
  The Bad:
  -Turns can become very long 
 at later stages even on high end systems.
  -Easy to lose track of things the larger your empire gets.
  -Addicting
  
  Civilization 4 
 currently holds the record for one of my most reinstalled games ever. It's simply such a great, 
 addicting timeless masterpiece.
  
  Gameplay:
  You basically guide a civilization from 10 000 BC to 2050, creating cities, military units and 
 improving land around you.
  You may expand your empire by spreading your culture, religion or of course through military means.
 
  
  Although warfare is a crucial part of the game, this isn't a military strategy game. 
  Instead, as you witness the passage of time you'll be discovering new inventions allowing you to 
 build more buildings and better units.
  
  Since it's turn-based, you'll have plenty of time to plan your moves.
  Victory is achieved by 
 "world domination", either through war or peaceful means, being the first to reach Alpha Centauri 
 or hitting the 2050 cap.
  
  Graphics:
  Your units are represented by figures like chess pieces so don't expect detailed combat. The game 
 doesn't rely on eye candy, nevertheless it looks pretty enough and runs on most modern rigs. My 
 average system runs it with maxed out settings and at 1920x1200 perfectly smooth.
  
  Sounds:
  Although you'll probably end up using your MP3 folder, the game has an excellent soundtrack. 
 The music varies depending on how advanced your nation is but all songs, from the opening scene 
 over the gameplay music to the background music used when talking to other nations are superb. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: boogernator
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 27, 2009 7:10 pm PT
Review:  This is probably the best turn-based strategy game that the world can offer. It is fun educational 
 game in my opinion, not only it can teach people history, it allows the player to "alter history", 
 you can build the Eiffel Tower in New York for example. One flaw in this game that I have found 
 is that the Installer/Un-installer is HORRIBLE. When I try to un-install it, an error message appears. 
 I have to constantly contact Firaxis Games and/or 2k Games for instruction (s) to un-install it 
 cleanly. This always happens on my computer when I want to un-install the game or to patch the 
 game. There is just no permanent solution. I do not know if other people have the same problem 
 as me, but this is getting annoying. Overall, I give this game 8/10. This game is very addicting, 
 which can make you lose sleep. Other than that, please fix the uninstalling problem. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: krazyorange
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 21, 2009 8:33 pm PT
Review:  Try as hard as you like, but it's impossible to escape Civilization IV's charm. Simply, it's inherent 
 to the design. It's inexplicable really, since the core concepts are so devilishly simply yet it 
 will draw you back for ten more turns, twenty more turns.... oh hell, another game. The ease with 
 which I was drawn in is testament to how well every possible facet is designed. 
  
  The game begins with a masterful introductory film sequence, which depicts all manner of warring 
 tribes doing their dirty deeds to one another while scored with an epic soundtrack. Even the subsequent 
 main menu is equipped with a sensational background tune which, although it loops, will never become 
 tiresome. The basics from the Civilization franchise return in setting up your game; choosing the 
 world layout, size, climate, and so on, down to the vast number of options when selecting the prime 
 political leader. Generally, I tend to follow later-stage benefits and as such, however tritely 
 patriotic it might seem, find myself choosing America for its potent late-game Navy SEAL unit (24 
 attack points! I'll take it, please and thank you!) . It should be noted here, that on lower difficulty 
 settings, leader and tribe selections are nearly meaningless, as are several of the game's more 
 delicate intricacies. Past choosing your leader, the game plops you down with a warrior unit and 
 a settler, from which you must grow an empire.
  
  It is most satisfying to tinker with different varieties of civilization archetypes. On my first 
 go-around (which, unfortunately, was on the standard difficulty) I expanded laterally as quickly 
 as possible, erecting five or six cities within the first couple thousand years, and focused intently 
 on marching up the military side of the technology tree. By the time I passed my first declaration 
 of war via invading -simultaneously- several neighboring Incan cities, I was pitting heavily-armed 
 cavalry and cannon against vastly-undermanned macemen, archers, and spearmen. Dissimilarities in 
 technological advancement such as this occur frequently on the lower, less-challenging difficulty 
 settings, which provide an easier time adjusting to the incredible number of changes and additions. 
 Needless to say, by 1900 I was rampaging across the world with tanks, bombers, and aircraft carriers 
 whilst the majority of those who opposed my mighty wrath did so with early gunpowder units and 
 feeble (read: worthless) stone walls. By 1963, the game had slowed to a crawl, with each turn dragging 
 into seeming infinity as I maneuvered my expansive forces into position to strike the maximum number 
 of targets possible. I quit, unable and unwilling to dedicate fifteen minutes to a single turn. 
 On my next go-around, I upped the difficulty a few levels and began again with the Americans. This 
 time, however, I opted to stay as contained and therefore as easily-defensible as the resources 
 would allow. During the same time I controlled fifteen cities with an average level of seven or 
 eight in my premier game, I commandeered only four, each of which was over level twenty. (To be 
 sure, I had been blessed by the random continent generator with a preposterous amount of juicy 
 and nearby resources.)
  
  Civilization IV's finer points don't really emerge, or become apparent, until the computer nations 
 challenge you on the upper echelons of difficulty. I cannot stress this enough, that while the 
 game remains highly addicting on the standard levels, nothing will keep you thinking strategically 
 like the constant threat of invasion. For example, on my second game I had only just embarked on 
 a campaign to rid my northern borders of the pesky Indians when Bismarck and the Germans suddenly 
 declared war and charged in from the south, catching my economical crux almost entirely undefended. 
 Luckily, I had a plethora of grenadiers stockpiled in my capital city, and I deployed, defended, 
 and successfully negotiated a permanent peace with no cities captured and only a handful of outdated 
 units put to the sword. To be fair, I had turned down several attempts at open borders and denied 
 Bismarck's continued insistence that I declare all-out war upon the Chinese, with whom I shared 
 my eastern border and therefore was in no shape to open a military front -much less defend from 
 any counterattack should my offensive fail. Additionally, several times I agreed to a ten-turn 
 cease fire with the Incans, who offered me piles of gold and a technology or two, the only penalty 
 to my blitzkrieg being an untimely forced retreat of all units into my nearest territory. However, 
 the technologies and gold were usually worth the hassle of remarching my forces into hostile territory. 
 
  
  This sort of intense strategery is what proves to be the most addictive quality about Civilization 
 IV. There are oodles of technologies to research on the technology tree, most of which are broken 
 down to economy and military categories, with the former including such delicious new additions 
 as religion, which is occasionally a very hot point between nations -much as in real life. More 
 than once, an enemy would demand a conversion to his religion or face the cool touch of sharpened 
 steel. Naturally, as any respectful human would do, I politely denied the requests, leading to 
 a savory religious war which more times than not ended with my enemy's cities in my hands and their 
 gold in my pockets.
  
  I completely skipped over Civilization III, and hadn't played Civ II for nearly a decade, so it 
 was somewhat dicey remembering what was new and what was a returning feature. Some things, though, 
 were obvious, handy additions. For example, artillery behaves almost as factual siege units should: 
 you can set up camp outside an enemy city and bombard its defensive bonus percentage until it reaches 
 zero, which also deals collateral unit damage to any opponent residing within. Unfortunately, once 
 the defensive bonus has flatlined, artillery becomes as any traditional unit, which is somewhat 
 disappointing. I would have preferred an option to mercilessly pummel a city until its defenders 
 were forced to make a stand away from its walls or turn tail and flee. Sea units from frigates 
 on up also have the ability to sail into position and lower the defensive bonus against coastal 
 towns, which is surprisingly devastating against a landlubber enemy. Worker units are much improved, 
 able to construct all manner of houses (which upgrade over time into cash-rich towns) , farms, windmills, 
 camps to harvest ivory from elephants or other such resources from varied wildlife, plantations, 
 mines, and so on. "Great people" spawn in your cities from time-to-time, which greatly impact the 
 flow of city development. Each has several options, from completing (or applying a monstrous heap 
 of technology points toward) a new tech, constructing his "great work" in a city -which simply 
 provides a massive injection of culture points to that city's expansion- or joining the city, which 
 permanently upgrades that city's output. Other improvements serve to add spices to Civ IV's already-delicious 
 recipe, including a new emphasis on diplomacy and keeping opponents pleased, as previously illustrated.
 
  
  As far as technical aspects of the game go, Civilization IV has a grand soundtrack which, although 
 nowhere near as impressive as the menu title, will provide some auditory enjoyment. It does loop, 
 and more variety would have been greatly appreciated. Graphically, considering I jumped from the 
 pixel-and-sprite-happy Civ II, the game is impressive. Granted, it won't knock your socks off with 
 anti-aliasing effects or motion blur or other newfangled advances, but it does what it's meant 
 to, and effectively. Timing seems a bit off; although I've only played on "epic" speed, so I can't 
 comment too much or be overly upset with the pacing. While the slow expansion-yet-rapid advancement 
 of time in the beginning no doubt mirrors how civilizations are born, the early game consists of 
 pressing "enter" to progress through turns every twenty or thirty seconds. Contrarily, the latter 
 stages of the game, namely 1800 and on, drag incessantly. This is due to the large size of my military 
 and multiple war fronts, but when each turn stretches into the ten-minute-or-more span, it becomes 
 time to call it a day. Also irritating is the uneven advancement of technology between player and 
 computer (although I have not ventured in the top several selections out of fear) ; my military 
 is consistently more advanced. It is a bit more pronounced with the lower difficulties, but even 
 on the mid-levels I was conquering nations with armor while they feebly attempted the thwart my 
 charge with early gunpowder units. And lastly, Civilization IV is too damn addicting. Today, before 
 I wrote this, I set out to play a quick (ish) game in order to recall everything I wanted to touch 
 on... three hours later and several wars in, I realized my failure and had to pry myself away from 
 the "enter" key. This is perhaps the only time I have ever or will ever spurn a game for being 
 too time-consuming in a good way.
  
  All said, I have rarely come across a product more polished or more downright enjoyable than the 
 fourth iteration of Civilization. After I read through this checking for errors, I shan't be playing 
 this game again, else I never play another title again. Of course, there are expansions, of which 
 I fully intend to partake of. Until then, know that Civilization IV resides in the upper echelon 
 of PC gaming until something bigger and better knocks it from the apex... and by that, I clearly 
 am referencing an inevitable sequel. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: medwayman
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 21, 2009 12:17 pm PT
Review:  After the debacle that was Civ3, "Sid Meier" became the apex epithet in my vocabulary, reserved 
 only for the most heartless of traitors or untrustworthy of incompetents. Once I experienced Civ4, 
 I realized that Sid had totally redeemed himself, and then some. 
  
  What is it like to play? Glorious. Each feature carefully crafted and designed with fun and compelling 
 play in mind. There's a lot of stuff to love about this game, so brace yourself for a long review.
 
  
  GAMEPLAY
  - Leader bonuses make picking a Civ even more thought provoking.
  - Strategic resources beautifully integrated into gameplay, adding new flavor to tile improvement, 
 city placement, diplomacy, and conquest.
  - New unit experience/strength model makes conquest a much richer experience. 
  - A culture / 
 border system that works 100% better than Civ3. Cultural victory is a compelling alternative to 
 diplomacy or conquest.
  - Plethora of different map types create brand new gaming experiences.
  - Fantastic integration 
 of religion. Provides new game element that can be ignored or exploited based on preference.
  - Fun wonders & projects which make a difference but aren't "I win" achievements (like Pyramids 
 in Civ1)
  - "Civics" that govern society in a handful of areas rather than one type of government as seen 
 in previous titles. Excellent touch.
  - World builder tool makes tailoring your own scenario incredibly easy.
  
  GRAPHICS
  - Beautifully 
 rendered in 3D. Zoom out to space or zoom into a single tile.
  - No more "city view" most improvements and wonders are visible right on the game map.
  - Lightly 
 animated tiles make the world feel alive.
  
  SOUND
  - By far the best sound track for this genre.
  - Music changes based on the age you are in.
 
  - Brilliant opening theme. I often open the game up just to listen to it while I do other stuff.
 
  - When zoomed in you can hear ambient sound from nearby tiles.
  
  OVERALL
  The game just smacks of polish. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: another505
Rating: 3.5
Date: Jan 19, 2009 2:26 am PT
Review:  i wasted 25 bucks and i really dont like the way of playing like you use hours to build an army, cities 
 and roads, buildings and roads and then you could attack someone and looking at those soldiers 
 hitting against the others i thought it will be like total war which in the fight you could control 
 them in thousands killing the enemies . nothing much of this is good but worth playing if you like 
 the way playing it but i will definitely tell you if you like this kind of game making armies buildings 
 others you should play total war and there is not much difference of beyond the sword which my 
 friend house i would agree guitarfreak15 and talon124 and others who are disappointed in the combats 
 which is too plain are boring there is only a few kind resources and a few kinds of units the musics 
 and the graphics are ok but there is still no fun without tactics besides at the beginning you 
 need waste decades for the scout and worker for just moving a step before you have roads 
::::::

::::::
UserName: katana18
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 11, 2009 6:29 am PT
Review:  Do you know the answers to all the questions above? Well, whatever your answer, you still owe it 
 to yourself to play this game. I'll get to that after the technical details.
  
  Graphically, Civ IV does it right. It doesn't look like some ugly 90's era RTS, and it doesn't 
 try to overload your system with over-the-top textures. In fact, it's sheer simplicity is what 
 makes it so appealing to any sort of computer user, not just us hardcore gamers.
  
  The sound for Civ IV does its job. But this is also where it does something that I wished every 
 game would: it allows you to play songs from your own library. With that kind of support, I found 
 ankward moments when I was waging a war across South America, with the Black Eyed Peas in the background. 
 Go figure.
  
  Moreover, the gameplay department is simply fantastic. It's connected to the story, so to mention 
 one is to mention the other as well. First off, there's such a thing called the Civ-o-pedia, or 
 the encyclopedia of Civ IV. It contains everything from unit types to victory conditions. Can someone 
 say detail? Along the way, you'll find so many interesting bits of history, that you'll feel as 
 if you've really travelled to a different corner of the world altogether.
  
  Playing a game starts with choosing an empire and its respective leader. It's all for cosmetic 
 purposes mostly, with a little tactics thrown in as each commander has his or her own perks. A 
 typical difficulty has you in competition with 2 or 3 AI players, depending on the size of the 
 world. One of my favourite ways of playing is to cram a small map with 4 players and watch them 
 fight for territory. You could also have an 8-way free for all on a tiny map. Hey, with Civ IV, 
 anything's possible!
  
  Coming back to gameplay, you'll advance throughout the ages, starting at 4000 BC, and ending in 
 2050 AD. Along the way, you'll go through diplomatic struggles, maybe some conquest, certainly 
 some territorial disputes, and maybe even a nuclear war. One very beautiful feature of the game 
 is in building wonders. While it might get repetitive, you will watch intently for the first few 
 times everytime the Sistine Chapel is thrown together in a mini-cutscene.
  
  There's also researching technologies and religions, which will expand your outlook on the rest 
 of the world. Unless you're so rich and affluent that you've been to the many corners of the world, 
 you'll surely appreciate the little bits of information Civ IV gives you.
  
  There are also expansion packs, as well as the Civ IV complete pack. I encourage you to go out 
 and buy it. Civ IV is one of those rare games that you, the player, will feel rewarded at the end 
 of the day. This is a game done right. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MakoNinja
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 24, 2008 11:42 am PT
Review:  With Civilization IV you can choose from a colourful cast of historical figures like Genghis Khan 
 and Tokugawa. In the game you're goal is too win which can be accomplished by destroying all other 
 civilizations, diplomatically being elected to the leader of the world and a bunch of other ways. 
 Throughout the game you can call upon the leaders of other civilizations and trade, talk with, 
 or declare war on them. There is also a huge number of different things/people you can build in 
 your cities. If your capital has issues with health then build a hospital. Lacking defense? Build 
 some tanks. Maybe build a worker to improve the land around your cities. Or you might need to expand 
 your empire so build a settler and build a new city. Overall the game is a must have for fans of 
 the series and should be purchased by anyone considering buying. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Heiziux
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 23, 2008 6:05 am PT
Review:  Most strategy games are set in specific maps with enemies set in specific locations and usually 
 they start with huge advantage and you have to catch up.
  
  Civilizations series keeps improving their games each time. No other strategy game lets you conquer 
 the whole world any way you want. By customizing your civilization in any way you imagine. For 
 example playing as Americans with Hindu religion. Might not seem right but its just plain fun customizing.
 
  
  Graphics are great and whats even better you don't need the best machine to run the game. Game 
 absolutely sucks you in and it doesn't require hours of play to learn how to play this game which 
 makes it great. You get the game and u enjoy it from the very first minute.
  
  Overall a great strategy game with freedom. That says it all. If you never played previous Civilization 
 games you MUST TRY THIS! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: addictedto
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 21, 2008 6:39 am PT
Review:  I was always a huge fan of Sid Meier's Civilization series, but this game just keeps getting better 
 and better. It met almost all expectations I had in mind before the premiere.
  
  Great new features like: great people (can give you special bonuses) , religion system, missionaries 
 (who can spread your faith to other cities) , civics (lets you customize your government) , improved 
 combat model (only one combat rating) , culture level (influences city borders) , improved AI and 
 much more. Although graphics are not that important in strategy turn-based games it will catch 
 your eye in this one. The audio isn't the best aspect, but it fits the game perfectly. And of course 
 there's multiplayer option, after long hours of playing against cpu you can always gather some 
 friends and try to dominate online competition. Another advantage is great, large online community. 
 If you encounter any problems during the gameplay there are dozens of sites with guides, tips, 
 walkthroughs and also addons, mods etc. which will let you change almost all of the game features. 
 
  
  This game isn't for everyone. It requires a lot of planning, making key decisions and above all 
 large amount of free time. If you're willing to put some time and effort into it can be very rewarding 
 and enjoyable. A must-have for any strategy fan that's looking for a great game to play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ALEKOS73
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 15, 2008 3:58 am PT
Review:  Prepare yourself to spent many hours to play this game. Its so dificulty to stop to play. Civilization 
 IV was very well improved. The details of the  everything 
 in the game is great. I like very much to play, testing other civilizations and other ways of strategies. 
 I recomend for those who like strategy games. Guide your civilization from the remote times to 
 spacial era or beyond it. Introduce new technologies, stabilish diplomatics relationships or you 
 can provoque a war for your city growths to be the powerful lider that the world knowed. Religion, great 
 persons, holy cities, missionaries, new ground units, navals; and many other options. The 3D world let 
 everything more coloured and live. The soundtrack of game is excelent. You can choose through different 
 ways to make your civilization light or to be the winner. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: eclarkdog
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 12, 2008 12:32 pm PT
Review:  I tend to write a lot in my reviews, but I will try to keep this one brief since much has already 
 been said about this great game. Most gamers have heard of the Civilization series whether they've 
 played it or not. CIV IV takes the series to new levels of strategic complexity and graphical achievement. 
 The game is so good and rich that one even wonders where they go next with it and I've heard that 
 CIV V is indeed in the works. If you are new to Civilization, this is a turned-based strategy game 
 but far more graphical in nature than many of the wargames you see out there. CIV IV offers several 
 avenues for building a civ/empire from the diplomatic, economic, cultural to the obvious warfare. 
 With each turn, you perform strategic decisions, actions and movements that have an effect on the 
 overall game and ultimately reaching your goals as either set out by that particular scenario or 
 those that you establish yourself prior to playing. The developers provide several interesting 
 historic and fictional scenarios to play, many of which take many hours to complete. In addition, 
 you can play ad-hoc games based on certain eras or geographical locations both like earth or randomly 
 generated - in other words you can conquer your own world. Furthermore, CIV IV has one of the biggest 
 modding communities ever in gaming that provide improvements to the existing game as well as an 
 enormous amount of expanded gameplay. 
  
  CIV IV may not be for everybody which is certainly understandable. However, it's an extremely popular 
 game among strategy fans as well as many casual gamers. It offers an infinite amount of gameplay, 
 replayability and is a game you can pick up or put down at anytime. An added bonus is that you 
 just may learn something along the way. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Derek1177
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 7, 2008 4:24 pm PT
Review:  (WARNING: This review will probably contain some civilization warlords the first expansion pack 
 stuff in it to) Where to start. First of this game rocks. There are scenerios however its spelled 
 where you can play as a civilization in history like the age of disunion in China, Romes Conquest 
 in Europe and Africa, The Vikings and much more. I dont play those as much though because there 
 is a play now mode where you can choose the type of map you want, how big it will be, what the 
 climate and sea level is, what difficulty level which there is at least like 7 of them, how long 
 the game takes, and you can choose what civilization and leader you want to be. So now when you 
 start the game you are randomly placed somewhere on the map whether it is in the middle a continent 
 (depending on what type of map you chose) or on a little island in the middle of the ocean. You 
 start with a setler, which is what you use to start new citys, and a scout or warrior depending 
 on your civilization and leader. You start out in the year 4000 B. C. if i remember correctly. you 
 can choose from a variety of locations adn different types of terrain to found your setllement. 
 It is important to choose wisely because if you put your setllement in the middle of tundra you 
 will not be able to grow food and you will not be able to recruit units and ultimately not grow 
 adn get conquered by another nation pretty fast. I like to start by making my capital either next 
 to a river so i can farm for food or i like to put it on the coast near a river or lake for farming. 
 There is a ton of different resources in the game. You start by only seeing the very obvious corn, 
 wheat, rice, cattle, pigs, etc for food. As you reseach technologiesyou will be ably to see new 
 resources like uranium for nukes (late game) , Horses for cavalry, iron for swords and axes, etc. 
 there are also several religions in the game. They are all founded by the person who researches 
 a certain technology first. for example Monotheism= Judeism (sorry if i misspelled it) and theology=Christianity. 
 The technology tree is very user freindly and detailed. You have to research technologys such as 
 monotheism and writing before you can research theology. Which makes sense since Judeism came before 
 christianity. Now the technologies dont only deal with religion and economics but the military 
 adn goverment to. At first your goverment will be very simple with pagainsim and Barbarism. But 
 you can change at your will to become a police state (once youve researched the proper technologies 
 of course) or aka Comunism with free religion and free speech. now sometimes things like this can 
 clash and cause unrest in your civilization. but not always. Now back to the tech tree. The military 
 technology ranges from hunting and archery to Robotics and Rocketry (note that building nukes once 
 someone has done the manhatten project is extremely fun if not making you guilty. I almost understand 
 why the russians decided to not unleash there nukes on America during the Cuban missile crysis 
 in the 60's) . which certain technologies are required to recruit certain units. But noet that once 
 youve researched iron working it doesnt meen you can start creating swordesman. Youve got to have 
 the appropriate resources such as iron in this case. Now enough with technology. now your relations 
 with other civilizations is important. if you go and declare war on every civ you meet you will 
 be wiped out fast. For example: (and the circumstances are a little different) I invaded rome's 
 capital as a surprise attack but failed and the repercussions were dramatic. Literally 5 Civilizations 
 declared war on me because i had not carefully looked at romes allys and i was wiped out. Greeces 
 Army Literally never ended. They kept coming tell eventually i was overwhelmed. Now i did have 
 England as a real good ally but they were fighting on other fronts but they did spare someunits 
 to help me. And i forgot to mention that the AI is very smart. They had helped me take back some 
 citys in a very smart way without conquering and taking the citys for there own. Ok thats enough 
 of a review for me. i dont think i have ever written a review this long before. I could go and 
 on. note that there is even more stuff in the game that make it awsome but i dont have time to 
 explain them. I hoped this review helped you somehow. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Guitarfreak15
Rating: 4.5
Date: Nov 30, 2008 4:38 am PT
Review:  I understand this game is a few years old now. But even so, could you please tell me what I am 
 missing? I'm a big fan of RTS's and all, but I don't really understand what all the hype is about 
 this game. The game IS a bit fun, but it seems after you play through 1 campaign it's all over. 
 You've experienced everything. The graphics aren't impressive what so ever but clearly the producers 
 weren't striving to have top notch graphics. So I wont that against the rating. The game play is 
 repetitive and seemingly boring. I never woke up in the middle of the night with an overwhelming 
 urge to want to play Civilization. There isn't a whole lot of interaction within the game at all. 
 You spend tons and tons of time working up a huge army only to spend A LOT more time getting them 
 to the enemies and then wiping out maybe one city before 4 people declare war against you thus 
 raping your poor little defenseless cities back at home. I feel like I'm playing this game with 
 x's and o's. The civilization games may be for some people, but they're not really in my category 
 of games I like to call 'fun'. Again, what am I missing that makes this game so awesome? Did I 
 forget to activate the super awesome fight scenes? I don't know.... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fluteboy95
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 19, 2008 6:51 am PT
Review:  I bot this game to pass a little time till christmas, thinking that it would be fun for about a 
 week. Because, personnaly, I've always hated turn-based strategy games. But when I started playing. 
 I thought to myself: Wow, these guys did something right, I don't know exactly what, but they did 
 it right.
  
  And so I played, and played. . . and played. The Highly addictive turn based play keeps you telling 
 yourself, one more turn, one more turn. Until the whole weekend's gone and it's back to the Ol' 
 grind.
  
  The best part is for you parents out there, this game make government appealing. Do you want to 
 be a modern Napoleon, or Ghandi (literally) . Most of the time, I find myself winning a time victory. 
 (this means you survived and had the highest culture in the year 2050) . 
  
  Then after you reach 2050, there's the best part of the game: One. . . more. . . turn. This lets 
 you keep playing till, in theory, the end of the world. (In other words, forever.)
  
  This is a very fun game that would be a ten if it just explained everything a little better. But, 
 if you play your cards right and you have an open mind you can technically see how what happens 
 after about 2020 could be very likely indeed.
  
  I highly recommend this game to anyone who has a lot of time on your hands. Because when you start 
 playing it can be hard to shut it back off 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GamerDude3800
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 17, 2008 10:03 am PT
Review:  Civilization IV is definitely the best Civ game out there, although it is much better with the 
 expansion packs. The graphics are great, the controls are great, the sound is OK, the AI is pretty 
 good, and the varying difficulty setting is nice. This game is not for everyone because it takes 
 hours to finish one game (multiplayer can take up to 12 times as long, depending on how many players 
 there are) , and requires a strategic mind on any difficulty setting. It's also pretty complicated, 
 so if you have really bad ADHD or just can't handle a lot of things happening at the same time, 
 this might not be the right game for you. Still, this game is awesome and it's just plain fun to 
 build a huge empire and then stomp the little AI nations into dust. When it comes to deep and involving 
 turn based strategy games, Civ IV is the king! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: odechant
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 20, 2008 3:25 pm PT
Review:  Let's just say that I would have given this game closer to a 9.0 but the rating system would not 
 let me. That's the thing about this game it is in many respects that ambitious 9.0 but ends up 
 at around a 8.5, just shy of near perfection.
  
  Many conventions especially in diplomacy and ending conditions as well as overall game flexibility 
 may not be able to live up to your grand expectations as they did not to mine. However this game 
 has gotten much play time and I have never been dissatisfied with my purchase as there is much 
 to value about the game play dynamic and easy of access for all skill ranges.
  
  With two expansions you may feel that a Colonization purchase is the better alternative and you 
 may be right. As of this writing Colonization has yet to be released but I am waiting and will 
 be among the first to tells you whats I think of the next Civilization generation. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: OpratorHunter
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 9, 2008 9:50 pm PT
Review:  Civilization 4 is an astounding great game that will keep you in the computer chair for at least 
 a few hours. The game gives you the responsibility of a civilization and leaves you at that. With 
 that Civilization you are in charge of everything, including money, power, authority and welfare 
 of the nation. It's simply awesome. Even after having the game for more then a year it is still 
 one of my favorites. It let's you explore and do what ever you want to do in the game and make 
 your own choices. You start every game around the year 4000BC and then make your way onward to 
 who knows where. Basically, the point of the game is to make a Civilization that will hold off 
 against time. But what is great about is that after you beat the game, you have to go play it again. 
 Every time the game ends you want to make your civilization bigger, better, stronger.
  It's a hard game to explain and you just have to play it. Only trouble is you will not learn all 
 the steps to play the game the first time around. You really have to learn as you go along.
  I recommend it to anyone who likes strategy games or historic games.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: mcavoybn
Rating: 6.5
Date: Aug 18, 2008 8:32 pm PT
Review:  Well the Civilization series is very widely known and played, but I'm not sure why.
  
  For starters this game is packed with features, replay ability, and options, so if you played it 
 at a friends house for a while, and you liked it, you will have that same experience over, and 
 over, and over again. For me it wasn't too amazing. Nothing gets done very fast, and there is no 
 real excitement to it. You have one warrior, and one scout, and one whatever, and a building basic 
 things takes multiple turns. I spent probably over 150 turns bot even doing anything. Another HUGE 
 problem is that if early on you enter combat with an enemy basic warrior vs. warrior, and the other 
 warrior wins, he's going to crush all of the other warriors, and archers that you throw at him!
 
  
  The good thing about this game is that it is very unique, it has pretty good graphics, you tend 
 to develop your own story line, and history.
  
  I'm not going to tell you to get it or not, but maybe just play it first? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: minimoose22
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 15, 2008 5:32 am PT
Review:  crazy addicting. all in all you will spend hours playing because it really is a great game. a a 
 a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a 
 a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a aaaaaaaaaaaa
 
  aaaaaaaaaaaaaa
  aaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaa
  aaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaa
  aaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaa
  aaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaa
  aaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaa
  aaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaa
  aaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaa
 
  aaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaa
  aaaaa
  aaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaa
  aaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaa
  aaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaa
  aaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaa
  aaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaa
  aaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaa
 
  aaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaa
  aaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaa
  aaaaaaaaaaaaaa
  aaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaa
  aaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaa
  aaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaa
  aaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaa
 
  aaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaa
  aaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaa
  aaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaa
  aaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaa
  aaaaaaaaaaa
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Awsomecal
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 21, 2008 1:22 pm PT
Review:  I was first introduced to this series when i received this game, Civilization VI, as a Christmas 
 present from a relative. At first i didn't think much of the game. However, when i first played 
 the game... well.. i was just blown away.
  I can still remember my first game. I was playing the Celtic empire and it was invaded and destroyed 
 by the Romans. Even thought i was disappointed i still wanted to play and try harder to beat the 
 Romans.
  Its, one more turn game play has kept me hooked to the computer at hours at a time figuring out 
 more ways to invade and destroy a city.
  I actually forgot to do my homework one time because of this game.
  Trust me this is a game for 
 almost anybody.
  Only problem i could find with the game is that it takes a while to learn all the control's.
 
  
  A must buy"!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lsemulation
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 15, 2008 5:56 am PT
Review:  Civilization 4 is an even better installment in a series that span decades among players. Instant 
 classic as soon as it hit the shelves and it is one of the most in-depth games i have ever played. 
 Adding on all the expansions as well and you have so much time to spend playing it that you'll 
 have to fight your way back to playing other addictive games such as WOW.
  
  From the first civilization onwards I have played this game on and off for hours at a time. It 
 can be strongly recommended to those that love to learn about the past but also feel they shape 
 it themselves.
  
  Do take the time to do the tutorial so you understand the basic of the game as it has changed a 
 bit during the times. But all in all you will be able to play this at a decent difficulty without 
 being smashed to bits.
  
  Graphics are great and the leaders do have some funny quirks at times when they seem to want something 
 out of you. And don't fall for the sexy Russian... she'll kill you if she gets the chance :)
  
  Use your head and sense while dabbling with diplomatic opportunities, gathering ressources 
 to sell and also leading your armies into enemy territory. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DirtyDirk117
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jun 30, 2008 7:25 pm PT
Review:  So way back when, back in the days of the original Civilization, i developed a love for this game. 
 It was my, "finished with work early in the computer lab game (along with the, then amazing, sim 
 ant) " I never really got to spend a lot of time playing Civilization then but i played enough to 
 want more 10 years later. And i was disappointed. Yeah this game got awesome reviews but maybe 
 i am missing something. Probably i have been desensitized to the "fast paced action" of turn base 
 strategy by such titles as Halo, Oblivion, and any other game that is played in real time. I played 
 this game for a few weeks and i will never touch it again. I have no desire to even load it on 
 my new pc. I am actually planning on selling it as a bonus with my old PC. And i will probably 
 never buy a turn based strategy again if this is the best that TBS has to offer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: colinisawesome
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 29, 2008 2:18 am PT
Review:  Hell i am Colin and i now believe in Civilizatisum (civil-eye-at-isum)
  
  
  First of All the graphics compared to Civilization 3... ROCKIN!!!! and also not only to Civ 3 but 
 in general they are pretty good, not fantastic but pretty good. 
  
  The Gameplay: Real. When the country you are trading with moves in next door and takes that bronze 
 resourse you so greedily have been eyeing, suddenly there friendship seems less valuble to you. 
 But then you have to decide if killing them is the best option because you still don't know if 
 in 30 moves you can take them out, why 30 moves? because 30 moves is a quick strike against there 
 city and you could claim it then plead for peace or waste another 60 moves and kill the rest of 
 there race. Basically Gameplay is good.
  
  Sound: hope you have Itunes or Windows media or something like that because classical music gets 
 boring after 5 hours
  
  Storyline: Whatever the heck you want to make up is in the palm of your hands.
  
  Other Features:
 
  
  Communicating with other Leaders is kinda hard depending on the relationship you have with them. 
 so i guess it could have been set up better.
  
  Stupid barbarians...
  
  ICBM's should do way more damage then what the game designers did. also if i launched 50 ICBM's 
 into 5 countries should that cause like a nuclear winter or something
  
  The Global Warming Effect was cool (played tell year 2145 and almost 50% of the map was desert)
 
  
  Glitchs with scout and With Fight scenes... But who cares they still worked the same it was just 
 graphical glitchs
  
  
  
  BUY THIS GAME IF YOU HAVEN"T!!!
  -colin
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: musicisamazing
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 26, 2008 11:02 am PT
Review:  Ah, what can I say about Civilization IV? It's the best TBS ever! Civ 4 is a historically accurate 
 game in where you play as a famous world leader. Although the game is immensely complex, it can 
 also be extremely simple. My eight-year-old brother can play it easily, because the game let's 
 him operate without going into the various complexities, including religions, forms of government, 
 resource management. Every thing you encounter in the game is real, for instance, so-called "Great 
 People" are actual famous people from history. One aspect of the game that I particularly liked 
 was the scenarios, which are based on real historical events. In conclusion, Civ 4 has nearly infinite 
 options, and it can be learned quickly, so anyone who likes strategy, history, or really fun games 
 will like it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: youthebestboy
Rating: 7
Date: Jun 22, 2008 9:51 am PT
Review:  Well lets just say this game is the first letters of each of those
  
  When I bought this i saw the rating it said 9.4 (says to myself hooray) i realized this was sooooooooooooooo 
 wrong, because this game deserved a 5, no it deserved a 4, why does everyone here like this game?/?? 
 im soo confused
  
  This game is no good, civ 3 was too big of a standard for this and it gets boring fast. Please 
 if you read this do not go and get this game. The town overview is poor, you cant even see the 
 picture of the town. Hello, you could do that in the third, why cant you in this one? Maybe im 
 totally wrong but this is by far the worst civ....... period
  
  Scoring
  Graphics 9
  Value 1
  Sound 7
  Gameplay 1
  18/40 or 4.5
  
  One little thing about this game that is 
 neat that is nice is the map creator, very nice how you can generate a nice map anytime you want 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jalem01
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 20, 2008 2:19 pm PT
Review:  The ideas behind Civ 4 are great. You start by picking what civilization you want to play and what 
 leader (If the civilization has multiple leaders) . It then thrusts you backwards to the "dawn of 
 mankind" as your people decide to give up their nomadic ways and form a great society. Your tasked 
 with leading your people which involves developing new technologies and building structures. Even 
 building great structures such as the Hagia Sophia or even The Statue of Liberty. 
  
  Now stop here for a moment. While all these things sound great there is one little detail being 
 left out: Its all linear. There is no branching off and going down a different path as all your 
 neighbors. Even though you're given the option of winning the game through several different methods 
 (Basically branching from the main aspects of the game: Conquest, Scientific mastery, Cultural/Diplomacy 
 mastery, or just building a great civilization in which you control a dominating amount of the 
 worlds population) you'll still find it yourself more or less developing at the same speed in which 
 you did in all your previous games. You won't have nukes or anything close by the year 1200, and 
 neither will you be building the UN.
  
  Speaking of the UN we have to mention another "key" aspect to this game: Diplomacy! The diplomatic 
 options of this game are very cool on paper. You can trade pretty much anything under the sun, 
 assuming you developed the right technology. Don't have horses? Find someone who does, who likes 
 you, and who will give them to you for something else. Or maybe you feel like you're set on a certain 
 path of development but find that you need something else that you've been skipping. Solution? 
 Find a friend and trade technologies. The list goes on: Map information, gold, converting them 
 to your religion, government types, etc. Its all here. But its all pointless. In the end you could 
 ignore diplomacy, minus when your friends talk to you, and get by fine. Disappointing.
  
  Finally I want to mention combat, which has to be the most frustrating aspect of this game. Its 
 pretty much what'd you expect. You build units that have advantages or disadvantages and, of course, 
 more advanced units have more hp and deal more damage. It should be one of the simplest things, 
 but somehow they made it completely frustrating. There are times when your unit will have a clear 
 advantage over another, and yet for some reason lose. Sometimes it makes absolutely no sense. In 
 one game I had a helicopter shot down by a unit of horse archers. Watching your early 20th century 
 infantry getting beat by longbowmen is enraging, and in the end it makes the game feel like combat 
 was half-assed.
  
  Civ 4 is by no means a bad game, and I'm more than willing to admit that it simply is not for me 
 (I'm more of a Total War guy myself) , however it seems overrated. All the features work, and are 
 surprisingly good, it just seems disappointing and, at times, horribly frustrating. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mejustjustin
Rating: 6
Date: Jun 18, 2008 4:20 pm PT
Review:  *Note - I really only played the same map over and over, which is the World Map on Custom Scenario, 
 in which I turned off all the objectives just to play for fun.
  
  Well, how to start out? I must first say that this game had high potential. I like the idea of 
 building up with and competing with other Civillizations, as you build up your cities, race others 
 in having the most technology, and build up an army in hopes of conquering others. I like the feature 
 in which you can set your units on "auto", such as having Scouts automatically explore, or have 
 Workers automatically build upgrades for your cities. I also like the wide variety of units in 
 this game. From Warriors, to archers, to Knights, to Modern Troops, this game pretty much has it 
 all. You also choose from a variety of leaders and civilizations to be, which is interesting.
 
  
  As stated above, ithis game had good potential, but failed in my sights. The BIGGEST dissappointment 
 about this game is after 1.5 - 3.5 hours of play, the game out of no where begins to lag HORRIBLY 
 and UNCONTROLLABLY! I could not even bare to play anymore once it started lagging. Maybe I just 
 have a bad computer, but I could not handle the lag. Another thing that got me, is that sometimes 
 this game seems rigged for the computer. Like, one time I out numbered a AI civilization in military 
 I believe 5:1. I lost pretty much all of my troops when I assaulted him. Now, I should give you 
 the bit of information that is somewhat key; I attacked a fortified city; but that still not explain 
 how I lost 8 warrios and 3 archers, while the AI only lost 1 warrior. Maybe I am just being negative, 
 but that is absurd! Those are my two biggest complaints about the game.
  
  Overall: I'd have to give a decent rating, like a 6 - 7 or so, because it is fun. Only thing is, 
 the fun only lasts a couple hours. I don't like to play this game any more because it just doesn't 
 feel right playing a game that you are just waiting for to start lagging and end your fun. If it 
 didn't lag, I would very much love this game.
  
  Should you buy it?: I would have to recommend that you try borrowing or renting this game first. 
 If you can handle the lag, or it doesn't lag on your computer, I would reccomend getting it. If 
 you can't handle the lage, like myself, I wouldn't reccommend getting it.
  
  Well, see ya! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: downloadthefile
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 12, 2008 6:25 pm PT
Review:  This is a game where if you enjoy to control every tiny detail of their empire to make it feel 
 personal to you, along with developing government types, gaining favor or angering other leaders, 
 going to war, being able to win multiple types of victories, creating an economy, battling for 
 religious differences or important resources, or just being barbaric and killing your neighbors 
 for the fun of it, this is for you. While the actual battles or their animation may not be the 
 best it still has the best AI I have ever seen in a game. The AI capitalize when you are weak, 
 and will do what it takes to win. The AI is pretty much similar to the online players. Online play 
 is somewhat enjoyable as well. The scenarios allow you to play as America or the British in the 
 American Revolution, and any of the six main powers in the Axis/Allies struggle of North Africa. 
 Also can start a regular game from the Medieval period where you control one of the Crusader countries 
 or Arabia.
  
  Overall, this is a game that has stolen much time of mine, and takes patience to become good at. 
 All the people criticizing it clearly don't appreciate the time it takes to prepare for a war in 
 real life as well as appreciate the fact that this is a turn-based strategy game, not real-time. 
 And it is also one of the most complicated turn based strategy games on the market.
  
  Normally I play RPGs and First Person Shooters where you are actually a character. I have developed 
 a new love for Strategy games from this game, though. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AKing27
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 12, 2008 9:27 am PT
Review:  Let's get it out from the start - this game is undoubtedly the best Civilization game ever, and 
 is definitely up there with games like Halo 3 and Mario Galaxy. If you like the Civ series, buy 
 this game. If you just like strategy games in general, buy this game. If you just want a good game 
 to play for a while, buy this game. If none of the above apply, BUY THIS GAME! You should not miss 
 out on this. Superb graphics, faster, smoother, more accessible and deeper gameplay, superb sfx 
 and music, tons of small, humourous notes... the list goes on and on. There are more ways to win, 
 to upgrade and specialise your cities and your civilization in general, and more ways to trash 
 your enemies in war. Religion now plays a part in history, civs will try to make you change your 
 civics (they replace having a single government type, instead you can customise them completely 
 - a communist police state with freedom of speech, a democracy that persecutes other religions, 
 etc. etc.) , and the world builder interface allows you to completely change the world - one of 
 my favourite moments was using world builder to turn Tokyo to ocean while at war with Japan. Rofl. 
 In conclusion, this is a game you simply must buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: omarko_54
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 7, 2008 3:03 am PT
Review:  The leering figure of the mighty Alexander the Great filled my monitor. "My numberless tanks will 
 crush you!" he bellowed at me. Legend has it that the real Alexander wept when he realized that 
 there were no more worlds left to conquer. There's no such problem with Civilization IV, the latest 
 update to the classic strategy franchise: the worlds are infinite, and the means that you will 
 use to crush each one will vary from game to game. This is what PC strategy is all about: hour 
 after hour of interesting decisions and nail-biting conflicts. The single-player game alone is 
 remarkable, but the addition of multiplayer (and yes, it actually works this time) puts it over 
 the top.
  
  If you've never played a Civilization game before, Civ IV makes a great place to start. Games play 
 faster and aren't as complicated or bogged down as they were in Civilization III. The basic premise 
 is that you control a culture from its humble prehistoric beginnings, building cities and advancing 
 your society, gradually learning new technologies until you've replaced clubs and spears with tanks 
 and nuclear missiles. You'll clash with other cultures and engage in trade or warfare. And you'll 
 determine how your society is organized: its economy, its politics, even its position on religion. 
 It sounds complicated, but one of the triumphs of Civilization IV is that despite its enormous 
 scope, the interface is not hard to use. New players and Civ veterans alike should be happy with 
 this one.
  Since the franchise started back in 1991, Civilization has developed legions of fans. Over the 
 years the sequels have added new features but also new complexities. Civilization IV adds a few 
 new tricks, but it also simplifies the core game, making it feel more like the original 1991 classic 
 than its predecessor. The technology tree has been redone so that every tech means something substantial, 
 and there are less units, making each civilization advance more important.
  
  Civ IV's presentation is a big step up from earlier games. Everything is played out in full 3D, 
 and you look at the tile grid straight on (instead of at the weird 45-degree slant of previous 
 games) . The whole game also comes alive with detail, from the little whitecaps on the ocean waves 
 to the animation of tiny mine carts going into and out of mines. Civ IV also uses the same interface 
 conventions as real-time strategy games, and it's much more intuitive. Nearly every important decision 
 your civ needs to make can be done from the main screen, and icons for cities or units display 
 all the info you need at a glance.
  
  Another big change is the addition of religion. Various beliefs are discovered during the course 
 of the game, and these beliefs spread from city to city and across cultures. The addition of religion 
 doesn't dramatically change the game, but it presents you with a lot of interesting options with 
 regards to diplomacy and cultural development.
  
  The last huge change is multiplayer. Previous versions of the Civ games have taken stabs at it, 
 but it always felt tacked on (if not outright broken) . Not so with Civ IV. While it's still a little 
 rough around the edges (see below) , it actually works, and it works well. Players will find a whole 
 new set of challenges when playing online
  
  its a great game that any gamer should pick
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: philg2518
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 3, 2008 11:43 pm PT
Review:  I have always been a fan of strategy games of any type, my first I think was Age of Empires back 
 when I was like 10, so naturally my first experiences in strategy was that of Real-Time Strategy. 
 Later on, about 2 years ago I think, my friend introduced me to Civ III, which was decent, but 
 somewhat confused me. After Civ IV came out, I decided to buy it, and was absolutely blown away. 
 
  
  Gamespot was not just joking when they said 'you will lose sleep', and it's true, because the game 
 operates on a turn basis, when you're playing the game, there's this little voice in your head 
 saying 'C'mon, just one more turn.', of course one good turn deserves another, and you end up playing 
 the game all night. One of the best features new to Civ IV, is the religion system, as it adds 
 a whole new dimension to the diplomacy aspect of the game, which is one of its strong points. Unlike 
 other strategy games, such as Age of Empires etc, the game does not just focus on war, you can 
 quite happily play for hours and not fight a single battle. (Although, war in the game is great) . 
 The visuals in Civ IV have also been revamped, and are spectacular. Civ IV is also easier to understand, 
 and considerably easier to play than Civ III. The gameplay in Civ IV is simplified, and won't leave 
 you scratching your head.
  
  One downside of the game is that towards the end of a game/scenario, when empires become developed 
 and large, unless you have a high-end PC, you might suffer some issues with load times etc. but 
 that's only a minor problem. The only other thing I count as a negative, is if you try to play 
 a map with all of the nations active, (a real-world scenario) the game can become very difficult 
 towards the end, mainly due to the amount of things that need to be managed and remembered each 
 turn, this also lengthens the turns towards the end of the game. So this can detract somewhat from 
 the realism of the game. 
  
  Overall, this is a fantastic game that can be enjoyed by anyone, but I recommend it especially 
 to anyone who likes strategy games of any type, you will be pleasently surprised. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sushiisownage
Rating: 8.5
Date: May 31, 2008 3:09 pm PT
Review:  I first got into Civilization back when my dad came home from being overseas. For his last few 
 weeks there, he was sent to Kabul, Afghanistan. On the other side of the country from the small 
 camp he was at. Having nothing to do, he began to play a game called Civilization III. When he 
 came back, I quickly put it on my home computer and was amazed stunned and I couldn't stop imagining 
 my next moves.
  
  
  I quickly became the Japanese, witch has been an Easy but fun country to control for me. I was 
 in-love with the game.
  
  A year later I got Civilization IV for my PC. I hadn't played many PC games before and Civilzation 
 III was the only one that wasn't made for little kids I got when I was 5. 
  
  Now, the graphics improved alot, and there were more countries and gameplay modes. This was all 
 fun and really really looked cool, witch it turned out to be. It also had a great Music Track.
 
  
  As for downsides I really have to say inless you have a newer computer than the game will be slighly 
 slow. The game came out years ago, the same year I bought my computer. Yet it still ran a little 
 slow, but it really didn't end up being a problem. The other problems is that the AI is a little 
 strong at points and they annoy you to death by asking questions (WILL YOU TRADE WITH MY PLOX!!!!!!!!!!!!) . 
 The battles also became harder and the simplicity was more complex.
  
  Point: If you like Strategy games buy it. If you like Civilization Buy It. Its enjoyable even with 
 some downsides. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: IMgiovanna
Rating: 6
Date: May 12, 2008 6:04 pm PT
Review:  Although the game has significantly gotten better as far as gameplay goes since Civ III, there 
 are a ton of problems that I think are too big to ignore.
  
  Maybe a lot of the gamers on here have these massive systems or systems that they commit only to 
 gaming; however, my system doubles as my home computing needs, my web needs, financial tracking, 
 and of course some gaming.
  
  I also had the Beyond the Sword expansion pack running, and had to make some significant system 
 tweaks to get the game to be only slightly playable.
  
  It was sluggish at best. At the worst it would cause crashes and it wouldn't let me remove it from 
 my system. Support from the company is non-existent, and so reconfiguring the system was the only 
 way to get rid of the game.
  
  I won't sell it, because I think it's buggy and the store wouldn't give me a refund because it 
 was opened.
  
  I suggest buying it used from a store that has a 7-day return policy or don't buy it at all.
 
  
  I'm not usually so critical of games, but this one was truly frustrating and a huge waste of perfectly 
 good money which I could have spent on a different game.
  
  If you can get your game to work, then great! The game would be a fantastic game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sarwan_dude
Rating: 10
Date: May 9, 2008 2:15 am PT
Review:  Amazingly, Firaxis got everything right. Changing anything when it isnt broken is always risky, 
 especially in a firmly entrenched franchise with legions of fans, as Civ III proved. Firaxis gambled 
 anyway and changed Civilization IV more than anyone dreamed and came up with the best game in the 
 series while still delivering the same rich experience and feeling of familiar comfort.
  
  The AI is improved and no longer cheats so obviously, at least not until the difficulty levels 
 ramp up  but the game is candid about that too. Building cities feels just right  
 its no longer punishing to have more as in Civilization III, but there are effective deterrents 
 to trying to spam the entire map with them as well. The various ways to win a victory, whether 
 through domination, global conquest, a space race, culture and so on, are generally balanced and 
 feel right. Wars are often long and difficult, and victories can be Pyrrhic, but theyre 
 not so grueling as to be discouraged. The civilization traits, like Creative, Organized and Aggressive 
 have meaning for both the behavior of the civilization and in terms of bonuses. The bonuses are 
 just the right size  large enough to have a noticeable effect on gameplay and to influence 
 the players strategy, but small enough as not to be overwhelming. Consequently, a civ that 
 doesnt enjoy the Aggressive trait need not fear war with another that does, but having the 
 Aggressive trait would help win a few battles. The AI also tends to build itself around its traits, 
 but again, they dont blindly focus on what they do best. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rheinmetal
Rating: 7
Date: Jul 29, 2008 12:50 pm PT
Review:  For months I was staring at it at the stores, but I would 'nt buy it because my computer was very 
 slow for such a new generation game. Eventually I got a new one, and the first game title I bought 
 for it, as you can imagine, was CIV4. Now, if I am ever in a mood to play a Civilization game, 
 I only play CIV3! And why's that? Because CIV4 is a multi-featured game and a very demanding one, 
 that tends to be overwhelming for a standard player. Also I could easily consider the game just 
 boring. On the other hand, if you don't mind loosing all the time, and feeling confused, but instead 
 you want to explore the new features of the game, you 'll find many interesting aspects.
  
  More specifically in terms of game play, since in these kind of games graphics are not crucial, 
 the game gives you two alternatives: either you control every single detail of your cities progress, 
 which is insane, or you give some general orders, which is the most possible, and you watch your 
 cities growing, without really understanding why a certain city has become a metropolis and its 
 neighbour remained a village. You have the feeling that you don't really participate in it, and 
 when you "manually" intervene in some way, usually that make things worse. Not to mention that 
 no matter how hard you try, somehow you are the puniest civilization amongst your rivals. Of course 
 I don't imply that there is something wrong with the function of the gameplay, but obviously you 
 'll need to devote a great deal of time in order to master it. Perhaps some kind of school would 
 be ideal to help you playing efficiently CIV4. All I wanted was a normal turn based Civilization 
 game, hopefully more polished than CIV2 and CIV3, but still I asked for a game, I did 'nt ask for 
 a full time job!!.
  
  I find it hard to believe that computer games experts have ranked CIV4 with a 9. Did they actually 
 enjoyed playing it, or they were only testing its features for the needs of their magazine review? 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AnthonyBoscia
Rating: 5.5
Date: Apr 29, 2008 1:03 pm PT
Review:  The Civilization series has taken up a disproportional amount of many gamers' time. When a new 
 entry arrives, it would seem like a time for excitement and dread at the prospect of losing precious 
 sleep. Civilization IV, however, underwhelms in a big way.
  
  This is not to say it's a bad game. Fans of Civ and strategy games in general will find many familiar 
 ingredients. The progression of human history in an intricate yet user-friendly way makes for good 
 times. The same basic concepts means that there's much to like.
  
  Hands down the biggest improvement is the re-vamping of the corruption and civil disorder processes. 
 New players in the series may not notice, and that's the improvement. Civil disorder is still a 
 nuisance, but not the show-stopper it used to be. And corruption doesn't make expansion counter-productive. 
 Instead, a larger empire brings greater inflation and scaled maintenance. Therefore, you still 
 have the realistic challenges of disorder and corruption, but now your tools to combat them are 
 better and it doesn't grind the game down.
  
  The second big thing is how resources are more integral to the land and your progress. Civ 3 introduced 
 these in a big way, but this game takes it further. Luxuries and resources have benefits including 
 on-the-plot bonuses, health (a well-done new feature) , happiness, and production. Control of these 
 strategic resources becomes a big focus, just like in history. So you may not start wars because 
 you're bored, but because you feel you have to. Otherwise, your opponents might do the same to 
 you.
  
  Other improvements work well enough. The religion system adds a nice new dimension. Promotions 
 give your units some value beyond their numbers. It's all good.
  
  But Civ 4 disappoints in as many ways. The combat system is truly a step back. It's so dull, generic, 
 and usually frustrating that I tended to avoid war at all costs. In fact, many aspects seemed so 
 tedious in execution. Normal mode makes the ages fly by so that the eras blur and whole unit trees 
 get skipped. On the longer game, it dragged. Often I found myself racing through a period for a 
 specific wonder or concentrating on finding a particular resource and missing out on everything 
 else. It's a question of pacing, and it doesn't live up to its predecessors.
  
  As I said, it's still a fun game, but questionable with the price tag. It is time to truly reinvigorate 
 the franchise with bold concepts, or move onto something else. For myself, I should have reloaded 
 Civ 3 and saved some cash. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cleodman
Rating: 7
Date: Apr 27, 2008 9:43 am PT
Review:  A 9.4 score by Gamespot! Are you kidding? Hey, I get sucked into turn-based strategy games like 
 everybody else, but after playing CIV IV a couple of times, it just gets boring and repetitive. 
 I remember playing CIV III and Sim City IV and losing myself to multiple nights of sleep, but I 
 just was not affected by this 4th installment. Been there, done that. Build your armies so that 
 they are stronger than your foes. Attack in numbers. So on and so on. The animation is very average. 
 They should have spent more time with the cinemagraphics, especially at the end of the game when 
 a victory condition is achieved. The music is probably the best improvement of the game.
  I'm not trying to put the CIV IV down, I just don't think that such a simple game is worthy of 
 scoring a 9.4, even in the genre of turn-based strategy games. The concepts are all the same. It 
 definitely is not worth the full retail price. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gamerhomeroom
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 20, 2008 5:47 pm PT
Review:  Largest improvement in the Civ series I've seen. There is some glitches though, that I hope they 
 fix that. Great game all together. I like that you could start in the modern time, instead of waiting 
 6-7 hours witch I've never done. And the World Builder is so cool, you can edit games without starting 
 from scratch unlike Civ 3. It takes so long to get a map that you can be satisfied with. And even 
 then it takes you another hour to make it, I don't know, Civ like. Any way back to Civ 4. The way 
 they fight is so much better than Civ 3. When they rotated doing what ever they do. I personally 
 think that was the biggest improvement of the game. Done with the review leave. Civilization rocks 
 Civilization rocks Civilization rocks Civilization rocks Civilization rocks Civilization rocks 
 Civilization rocks 
::::::

::::::
UserName: deadlynatas
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 19, 2008 8:42 pm PT
Review:  This is a great game. I played for like 18hours the first day i got it. I did burn myself out tho 
 for awhile. This game can be kinda of crazy. You might want to read how to play because it can 
 be confusing. This is a turn based game so if you like this kind of game definallty get it. Up 
 to the fourth one i didn't see much transition from civ3 compared to civ4.
  
  The game moves through time based so the more turns you play the realer in time it gets. I had 
 a problem uploading images on one of my laptops so i would sugjest u get a computer that has the 
 right capabilitys for it lol. have fun
  
  You can play as many leaders through out time and each leader has its own special abbilities. i 
 rated this game 9/10 because of its replay value and its amazing amusement. You can easyily play 
 this game over and over makign it a game being played over 100 hours if your into it. You might 
 dislike the game play and only place for an hour. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mooshay
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 12, 2008 7:10 pm PT
Review:  Turn based gameplay will never die and the Civilization series is proof of that fact. I loved Civilization 
 III and knew I was picking this game up the day it came out. Sure enough I did and have been playing 
 it ever since.
  
  The team has taken great care in modifying the game to introduce beginners to the game like never 
 before. I know I was worried when I first saw the simplicity taken on many angles of the gameplay 
 but was relieved to see that the complexity of the game overall is still very much vibrant with 
 a mastery level that still rivals that of any other game I've played. 
  
  An excellent game for those looking for that 12 hour time sink every weekend; or for that person 
 looking to master even the toughest of games out there right now. The difficulty settings and multiple 
 victory conditions will always keep this game challenging and fun. Throw in the multiple races, 
 leaders and you've got so many combinations you could be playing this game well into the next few 
 years.
  
  Enjoy this 4th masterpiece in the series that is Civilization
  
  9.5 - Fantastic! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: liukang666
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 5, 2008 10:43 am PT
Review:  Civilization is one of the greatest strategy franchises ever, so it's no wonder that Civ 4 stacks 
 up to that same greatness as well. Basically, its the same as the other, but just in a great new 
 perspective... and a few new things as well. 
  Its premise is that of an RTS, Sims type, but instead of a Jail or a Theme Park, its a whole world 
 leader! Gameplay is simple, addicting, and easy to get the hang of. You start with a cute little 
 Settler and maybe some attack units, then build up to many cities, units, buildings, ect. How? 
 Well, the formula is simple. You build units and buildings in your cities. Your workers and settlers 
 keep your civ growing and large, with workers adding improvements to nearby land like mines for 
 copper, and farms for squares with a high food value, while your settlers build new cities. At 
 the same time, your research goes in to things as simple as horse riding all the way to mining 
 uranium for ICBM's (Nukes) . At the same time, your research allows you to make new buildings, which 
 can lead to new things... hence a massive, beautiful cycle. 
  Also, the game has a few new features from the rest. For one, the camera angle can be contorted 
 with your mouse from a close up all the way to a board game. Also, there is the new religion factor. 
 It basically adds into the fun of a culture victory, which wasn't exactly the most exciting thing 
 ever. Also, there are great people. Great people work the same way, but with different things. 
 You have great artists increasing culture, great engineers discovering new research faster, ect. 
 They all work well into the game, always making a big difference.
  Although this game is very, very good, there are still some other annoying problems that need to 
 be remedied. For one, the normal game ends so fast you can't even finish all the technology. By 
 the time I discovered nukes and waged war on Russia, I only had 70 turns left! That of course, 
 leads me to my number one complaint... which I HATE: Battle. This game is pretty good with combat, 
 but of course, despite upgrades and things of that nature, you're of course going to fight in a 
 city with fortified, city-defense units. I'm not kidding, I had tanks, Marines, and even a few 
 ICBMs going against a cute little 9 population city with 4 freaking LONGBOWMEN in it... of course 
 I failed. Thats why you can bribe other races into waging war on your enemies... :)
  Overall, this is an extremely good game with many addicting and challenging aspects that I reccomend 
 to anyone with either no life, or lots of time on there hands. Lots of time... -skalokos
  
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Helloiseeu
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 2, 2008 6:26 pm PT
Review:  This is a game that you don't want to miss out on. Civilization 4 brings out the best of all turn-based 
 startegy games and combines them into one mega-awesome game. The game keeps you locked in at times, 
 and also angry at times.
  
  The game lets you pick one of 18 similar civilzations to which you rule. You must go through the 
 ages by researching technologies that ultimatly help your civilizations, building armies that will 
 let you conquer the land of your neighbors and more, build roads that connect your cities and make 
 trade with other civilizations, etc. There are 6 different types of victories. And tons of levels 
 of difficulty.
  
  Now its time to tell you what I love about this game. The amazing technology tree. The technologies 
 are just great. You start with two basic technologies and you advance way up to the top by getting 
 other basic technologies. Its just plain fun to watch your cities and armies changing through the 
 times. Also the tending the land feature is nice in the beginning of the game. You send workers 
 and watch them build farms, roads, towns, animal pens, oil rigs, and much more. The outstanding 
 realism of building of a civilization is in this game. For example, to get horses you need to build 
 a horse ranch and connect it with a road back to a city so you can get horses to be used in your 
 empire. The diplomacy is also nice. Unlike most games with diplomacy where you just talk about 
 money, armies, and trade, you can talk about other leaders and bond friendships with the leaders. 
 Also, you can build world wonders in this game. I mean any one you want in any city for any civilization. 
 I remmeber having the Kremlin and the Statue of Liberty in my capital of Mongolia. The military 
 untis are pretty much basic but, thats what makes them cool. You don't have all these wierd unreal 
 or just unknown units running around the world. The music in this game almost compares up to the 
 music in Galactic Civilization II. Civilizations 4 has some truely amazing features.
  
  Now it's time to say what I hate about this game. One thing I hate is attacking a fortiefied city. 
 It is nearly impossiable to destroy the units inside the city. I once had riflemen attacking city 
 defended longbowmen and I lost. In real life I would've utterly defeated those longbowmen. Also 
 the ending of games gets very laggy and annoying. Theres just to many farms and too many cities 
 for you to do anything but, build up your empire or finish achievements. The civilizations are 
 too similar to each other. The only thing setting them apart is one unique unit and they all start 
 out with only two technologies. 
  
  Despite this games' few problem its still a hell of a enjoying game to play. I highly recommend 
 this to anyone who has a interest of turn-based strategy or someone who just loves being the boss 
 of stuff.
  
  +addiciting
  ++beginning game
  +music
  +technologies
  +wonders
  -end game
  -annoying defensive battles.
  
  -Helloiseeu 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wiredscotty
Rating: 7.5
Date: Feb 26, 2008 8:48 pm PT
Review:  My wife bought this game. She likes history. She likes strategy. She likes nachos. And she liked 
 this game. 
  
  I liked it too. To a point. There are things I really like about this game. And things I loathe. 
 
  
  First the things I liked. I liked the idea of the game. Starting out as an illiterate, unintelligent, 
 primitive society and building your way up to an illiterate, unintelligent, advanced society is 
 actually pretty damn fun. You have to send out settlers and claim land for your civilization. You 
 have to pick and choose which cities to build up and which technologies to begin investing in. 
 You have to form relationships with other civilizations. And you have to race towards being the 
 first to get something into outer space. That is the gist of this game. 
  
  The fun is in all the little details and choices you make throughout the game. Should I inhabit 
 the land to the north, or to the south? Should I have this city concentrate on building an army, 
 or just farming? Should I look into developing computer technology or the A-bomb? Should I kiss 
 France's ass, or bomb them into the stonage for looking at me the wrong way? Should I help my people, 
 or just let them starve for being such whiny jerks? These are just a sample of the choices you'll 
 be making. 
  
  And the great thing is, the game moves pretty quickly. So you can instantly see your civilization 
 grow or shrink depending on the choices you make. And you will almost certainly never play the 
 same game twice. Every time you play will be a completely different experience. Even if you always 
 act like a war-mongering jerk.... like I did... and do... in real life.
  
  The visuals are decent too. You can tell whats going on most of the time. It's kind of like looking 
 at a board game come to life... a really cool, detailed board game.... a board game your little sister 
 won't tip over and run away from while laughing as you try to chase her down, screaming that you 
 hate her.
  
  Now for the badness. Sigh... who designed this interface? Who?!! I want his name! I want his address! 
 And I want to sit him down and ask him what the hell he was thinking. It's like they got a hundred 
 different guys. And each guy was assigned the task of creating how each button would look and work. 
 And none of those guys could talk to each other... so that nothing in the game works the way anything 
 else does. It is so frustrating I can't even begin to cough up how I feel about it. For example. 
 You want to move a guy to a certain spot? Right click where you want him to go. You want more than 
 one guy to a certain spot? Left click where you want him to go. And don't you dare try Right clicking 
 or nothing will happen. Don't even think about it jerk. 
  
  Why is it set up this way? To make you scream and never feel comfortable. That's why. This is just 
 a small example of what I'm talking about. The whole game is like this. And don't try moving armies 
 to attack other armies. Not without memorizing each different move that you have to make for each 
 different type of attack unit. It took me 15 minutes to figure out how to use a plane. And none 
 of this is in the bible sized instruction manual. You're just supposed to know it all as soon as 
 you open the game. Because Sid "I put my name before the title of anything I do" Meier has blessed 
 you with his knowledge through a psychic bonus you get when you purchase the damn thing.... sigh. 
 It's just all very unintuitive. 
  
  So that's my big beef with the game. Otherwise, it's actually a fun, interesting, and very open-ended 
 game. I'll probably play it again. And curse more and more the further I get into it... as usual. 
 
  
  At least I get to bomb France. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kuramak
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 20, 2008 8:39 am PT
Review:  This is my favorite game ever !
  I have played this game for more than 2 years and never is enough .
  I really love strategics 
 games, specially the historical ones .
  In my opinion Civilization is the game that take more seriously the true history .
  Also i think 
 is really nice that you have many ways to win the game not just killing every on else.
  I really love playing with real leaders.
  One thing impressive about this game is that every 
 time that you play it is different so it is not the kind of game that you will get bored or you 
 will finishes forever .
  When it was launched it got may may bugs, but they are all fixed now.
  The religion was a great 
 thing that they did add at the game play, the corporation was not so great.
  I am a big fan of civilization, any game with this name i will buy it, I'm really ansios about 
 the Wii version, and that it will take longer.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ch1pp0ly1
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 15, 2008 11:06 am PT
Review:  This is my first go on the series although I am a strategy fan. Having been mostly addicted to 
 the RTS genre, I was not convinced with a turn based strategy given the level of graphics and gameplay 
 that has been developed. I was so fantastically surprised. A beautiful game which looks fantastic 
 and you realise that you are in for a high-quality game as soon as the title music begins.
  
  The game takes you through the tutorials nicely and the ramp-up of difficulty is just about 
 right, although it starts to get very frustrating in the higher levels of difficulty but you can't 
 blame the developers for that.
  
  The tech tree associated with this game makes sense and it is nicely fresh to be able to win not 
 only by a rout but also by cultural, space age and score as well.
  
  Graphically, the game looks as good as any and the sounds compliment the game perfectly, particularly 
 when you are zooming in on the action to hear the natural sounds of the appropriate environment.
 
  
  Highly recommended! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Pianoman
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 4, 2008 2:55 pm PT
Review:  Im new to civ... but I'm glad I picked it up. Haven't played 1,2, or 3 ; after playing Age of Empires 
 I did not think I would enjoy another game quite like it. I have become addicted to this little 
 game. I like the simplistic way the government funds are introduced., I also like the turned base 
 part of it, it gives me time to think. The games that are real-time are frustrating for me. 
  
  Once the game got into the later turns and all the options at your disposal it really started 
 to crank for me. Everyone is different (different likes and dislikes) . This is my game , I will 
 be playing this for a long time. I heard civ 5 is coming out ? Going to be interesting ... My hat 
 is off to Sid Meyer.. from my seat Thanks buddy it is a great game. 
  p. s. i have never written a review on a game, this is my first . I felt I had to express myself.....
 
  
  Pianoman 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kill_jc
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 8, 2008 12:51 am PT
Review:  great game, great fun, great strategy, the best of the series and for me the best game ever... 
 new ideas in the 4th, like religion, new options and good graphics.
  the only problem is that the game needs RAM and can be really slowly on old machines. anyway the 
 3rd was the same at the time, playing on big maps.
  As I prefer having an "ugly" game but with perfect design, features and usability, this can be 
 a little bit disturbing some time. I know I have a 5 year old computer.
  I like turned based games, as you have time to think and give your orders. I'm a big fan of all 
 games of the series and the 4th is for the moment the best of it. With the extension and all fan 
 mods you have to play an entire lifetime only on this game... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: QuitChicken
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 8, 2007 8:34 pm PT
Review:  this game is exetremely fun and addictive. you'll probably stay up late into the night taking "just 
 one more turn" most games are take out your swords, machine guns, laser guns, or some kind of weapon 
 then slaughter your enemy. but in civ 4 you need to be good with military, economics, politics, 
 and basically everything there is to running a country. 
  
  you'll need to build your country from the cavemen time and then you'll get to the future and build 
 armies of robots. you'll need compete for resources and do everything there is to run a country.
 
  
  I recommend this game to everyone. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ilikepie714
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 3, 2007 3:17 pm PT
Review:  Civilization 4 is another great game in the Civilization series of games. The game play is basically 
 the same as it's always been, meaning that you go through different eras, discovering new technologies 
 and whatnot. This time around, though, new technologies and even things such as religions have 
 been added. Another cool thing is that you can change civics rather than just changing governments 
 in previous games. There are many other features added that help make this game so great. My only 
 complaint with the game play is that it can get a bit boring and old somewhat quickly. But don't 
 get me wrong, Civ 4 is still like opium in a PC game form. 
  The graphics have improved greatly overall. However, they're just a bit blotchy on the main map 
 and elsewhere. This shouldn't be a problem, though, unless you have OCD over graphics. 
  The sound is nothing to have an orgasm over, but it's still not bad. Also, the music selection 
 isn't bad as it ranges from world and folk music. The sound effects can get annoying rather easily, 
 though.
  Overall, this is a great game and if you're a Civ fan then you probably already have it and you're 
 probably hooked on it. If you're a fan of turn-based strategy (or strategy games in general) or 
 if you just want to try something new, I suggest you go out and buy Civ 4, you won't regret it.
 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Zythyl
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 28, 2007 2:46 pm PT
Review:  YOU are in control! You may set up any religion yu like, study in science you like, build anything 
 you like, anywhere you like! This game is something you will... like. 
  
  The abilitity to establish your own empire bent on military, religious, or economic rule is something 
 to always envy - now you can harness it! CIV allows you to lay waste to rivalling nations by destorying 
 them with military might, economic superiority, or religious influence. 
  
  The amount of time an individual may invest in this title is endless - as are the possilities. 
 CIV includes narration by Spock (Leonard Nimoy) and is wonderfully vocalised to immerse the player 
 even more into their own thriving empire. 
  
  If you have ever had a lust for power beyong scale, immersion beyond reality, or just have a lot... 
 a lot... of time on your hands, you MUST try this title out!
  
  CIV is a gaming masterpiece with few flaws and a wonderul musical score. The only "bad thin" per 
 se are the graphical designs - not quite on par with say HL2 of its time, but still impressive 
 for a turn-based historic stretegy game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FireBird228
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 24, 2007 7:56 am PT
Review:  Sid Meier: Hero, legend, god of PC gaming. He once again shows his finesee with Civilization IV. 
 This game has the one of the best learining curves of any game, and builds upon the succes of its 
 predecesors, while still bringing new things to the table. 
  
  The graphics are slick, and there are many new units as well. One of the things I like most about 
 the game, is the total freedom it gives to the player in making his choices. You lead your own 
 nation on whatever path you want it to. 
  
  It's highly addictive quality comes form the fact that things are always happening all around you. 
 Whether in your owon nation or in others, there is also one last thing you have to do. 
  
  It is also highly historically accurate, and it is often fun to try to immitate historical events. 
 
  
  Sid Meier keeps he ball rolling by adding many complex features yet still keeping the game initially 
 simple enough for the avarage user. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: XenaMungrrr
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 23, 2007 11:31 am PT
Review:  Concept: Make RTS as user friendly and addictive as possible, while at the same time paying incredible 
 attention to detail for veteran players.
  
  Playability: Once you've watched the tutorial you should have all the tools you need. The rest 
 is up to learning from your mistakes.
  
  Graphics: Beautifully rendered architecture and characters.
  
  Sounds: Dude, seriously, after 
 playing this game I started imagining that Leonard Nemoy was narrarating my life. Oh and the music 
 is pretty great too. 
  
  The bottom line: This game was purchased for me by someone else. It had everything going against 
 it and I ended up with my butt glued to my not-so comfortable $20 computer chair for hours on end. 
 
  
  Let me start off this review by explaining a little bit of my background here. Before this game 
 I'd never even so much as watched someone else play a Real Time Strategy game. I'm not the kind 
 of gal that likes too many things going on at once. I'm much more linear and like to focus on one 
 character at a time if possible. I can't stand war games at all. I've tried and tried to play some 
 of the Medal of Honor games, but just could not get into them. And one of the biggest functions 
 gaming serves for me is plot line.
  
  That being Said Civ IV was dropped into my disc drive with a lot working against it. I thought 
 that it would be boring and that I would suck at it. But I was bored one Saturday and had to work 
 the next day, so going out and getting stupid drunk wasn't an option. 
  
  As the tutorial walked me through an extremely different type of gameplay than I was used to I 
 started to worry. And upon setting up my first society on the easiest setting I was killed off 
 before reaching the 20th century.
  
  So I started over at around 10 o'clock. (I had to be at work at 4am, this was definitely my bed 
 time)
  
  The rest is history. I played through that game so many different ways. I took the diplomatic approach 
 and tried for peace between nations. I destroyed anything in my path to world domination. All of 
 it was challenging and satisfying. And I have to say it felt damn good to this peace loving hippie 
 to take the last stronghold of the last enemy on my entire world map. 
  
  Any fan of RTS should pick up this game without a second thought, and those of you not familiar 
 with the genre should certainly be able to enjoy it as well. It's still an awesome couple of hours 
 in front of my monitor. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: giyanks22
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 10, 2007 3:42 pm PT
Review:  Civilization 3 was one of the greatest games of its time. Now Civ 4 comes out. This Game is awesome. 
 It expands on all the great things that Civ 3 had, and it fixes Civ 3's few problems. 
  
  The game starts off with a great song at the menu, and the rest of the music also leaves a good 
 Impression. The game has a lot more customization options then Civ 3 had. In Civ 4 you can have 
 Custom games where you choose your opponents and rules, or a quick game, which allows for less 
 customization. There are 7 levels of difficulty. The easiest is Settler, which is great for beginners, 
 or if you want to try a new strategy. The second hardest is Chieftain, which is good for once you 
 start to get a feel for the game. The levels of difficulty progressively get harder as you go up. 
 You also have more terrain customization options. You can choose whether you want Continents, a 
 pangea, or an Archipelago. This choice depends on your strategy. Beginners should use Continents, 
 because it teaches how to use your Navy. You have the choice of your victory type. There are a 
 lot more leaders in Civ 4 each with their own strengths and weaknesses. Something new in Civ 4 
 is that you can choose different leaders within each Civilization. For instance if you want to 
 play as Mongolia you get to choose between Genis Khan and Kulbi Khan. You can also choose your 
 game speed, which changes the pace of the game. You can make a game speed almost as quick as one 
 hour, or you can make a speed that will last several hours, and require you to save. 
  
  Once you start a game you will be extremely impressed. The graphics are new and improved 3D graphics. 
 The mini-map is also well done. You can zoom in all the way to the ground, where the graphics are 
 very detailed, or you can zoom all the way out to view the entire world. These little details at 
 the beginning are huge improvements from Civ 3. 
  
  Building a Civilization is a little easier in Civ 4, and doesn't require such a large learning 
 curve. Workers and Settlers can move two tiles a turn , instead of one, making the beginning of 
 the game a little faster. Technologies are discovered quicker. The best thing about the beginning 
 of the game is the Tiki Huts. These are little tribal villages scattered around the map, which 
 can give you different things, such as technologies, maps, Settlers, scouts, and Warriors. Use 
 your scouts to find these Tiki huts, because you can get a huge head start if you get a lot of 
 technologies early. 
  
  The most improved part of Civ 4 is its military. Now you can select an upgrade for each unit, after 
 it has killed another unit. This allows you to use your upgrades to your advantage. One bonus is 
 a city defense bonus. This is good for units who guard cities. It gives them an advantage against 
 attacking units. The biggest problem with Civ 3 was that a tank could lose to a spearmen with barely 
 any health. This problem is fixed in Civ 4 making for a great Military experience . 
  
  Civ 4 also allows you to found religions, which are founded when you are the first to discover 
 a certain technology. You can build Missionaries to convert other Civilization's cities, or your 
 own cities. Getting other Civilizations to convert makes them pleased with you. Religion is a small 
 part of Civ 4, that doesn't make a huge difference, but is a great add on from Civ 3. 
  
  Resource gathering is much more straightforward in Civ 4. You can build mines on gold deposits, 
 or you can build a winery in a grape field. Resources and Luxuries make your citizens happier. 
 You can trade your luxuries away for gold per turn or other resources.
  
  You can also play a game online, and all these features are available. Online play is great, but 
 you need to make sure your game speed is set to quick, or your games might get a little lengthy. 
 
  
  Civ 4 is an overall great, which will immerse you in a breathtaking experience that will captivate 
 you for hours upon hours. Civ 4 is a g must buy for any gamer. Right now exit out of Gamespot, 
 and log onto Amazon or Ebay, and buy Civilization 4!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: apocmessiah
Rating: 5
Date: Oct 31, 2007 12:47 pm PT
Review:  A review over 9 for this?........ Really? There needs to be a reality check for some people rating 
 this game me thinks. Games have moved on, and the only thing this offers is nostalgia for the huge 
 following the Civilization has garnered over the years. In its day it was a good game but by todays 
 standards it falls short. The graphics may have had an overhaul but they still look 5 years out 
 of date. The graphics are pretty much the the standard of Empire Earth or titles such as that. 
 Everything is poorly detailed and lacks any atmosphere.
  
  The gameplay is worse. It boasts an immense tech tree and a multitude of units. It sounds to good 
 to be true and ultimately it is. The tech development is very slow and more often than not you 
 will spend for what seems an eternity pressing the enter key or end turn button to get to next 
 bit of research. The long hours of play are not from the addictiveness of the game it is more from 
 the desire to get things moving so that the several hours you have already wasted actually count 
 for something. The other unfortunate thing about this game is the size of the tech tree. It is 
 so big that the majority of researches are merely stepping stones to anything tangible or useful 
 which further increases dead time before anything worthwhile can be achieved. Just when you think 
 it couldn't get any worse, combat kicks in. While it boasts that you can play as a peaceful nation 
 the reality is that combat is inevitable especially on harder levels. This ultimately siphons the 
 gameplay to a generic warfare based style and this is neither engaging or beneficial to the experience. 
 Combat is clunky and bogs down the pace of the game to an absolute stand still in numerous situations. 
 This is down to the single move of units, you can't group them and options of what to do with them 
 are limited. It also exposes a huge balancing issue. The combat definitely seems to be all about 
 the numbers which further compounds the futility of the tech tree. When you see tanks cut down 
 by sword wielding cavalry or artillery held back by a couple of spear throwers then you start to 
 doubt the actual point of teching up - the core of this title. The problem is that this turn based 
 strategy pales in comparison with some of the great RTS titles out there which offer the player 
 more dynamic play, better strategy and better eye candy. As I said before games have moved on, 
 its time for the civilization games to do the same. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Fable_fan88
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 26, 2007 11:14 am PT
Review:  I play this game at least once a week! i love it! i play Civ3 so i know it would be a great game. 
 i mean i though they couldn't get any better from the 3, now the 4th is some how way better, graphics 
 game play... there are no flaws from what i have played! I highly recommend it to anyone! they did 
 a great job on this game. i hope the civ5 comes out soon. i do hope for maybe more future developments, 
 you kno, like outerspace exportation, like a goal to discover the solar system or something, first 
 one to the moon, or like u can build satilites to spy on ur enemys something like that 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GamingBoy2009
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 10, 2007 6:39 pm PT
Review:  Im not really a big fan of TBS games. I really like RTS games better. TBS games can be like playing 
 chess. But there was a big fuss over this game. So I tried it out and its really awesome. The concept 
 is great: You become the leader of a Civilization and starting at the dawn of man, you build it 
 up and make it a power. The game starts out around 4000 BC and ends 2050 AD. You do have the option 
 of going further into the future though. You can choose 1 of 18 empires to rule, including the 
 British, Spanish, French and even the Americans. This game really does get into politics. You can 
 have a police state government or a democracy. But there is so many options that for example, you 
 can have a communist government but still have a freedom of the press. You can also alter history 
 in Civ 4 as well. For example, you can build the pyramids in Germany or build the Pentagon in Russia 
 or build the Statue of Liberty in Japan. These are called world wonders and even though you will 
 be altering history by building these in a different location, its good to have them because with 
 these buildings, you can help the culture flow. You can also adopt a theocracy government and choose 
 which religion you want that government to run by. There are many to choose from including Christianity, 
 Islam and Hinduism. Religion isnt a big part of the game but it will help the culture of your nation. 
 Without culture, your citizens will get angry. Throughout the game, you will make contact with 
 other leaders of different nations. You can trade with them if they like you enough. Trading will 
 help your nations economy. Some of the nations are peaceful and some of them are hostel. So be 
 ready to defend yourself. Also, there will be barbarians in the game. So you must have you borders 
 protected. Barbarians will make raids against your cities and if one of your cities is not protected, 
 they will burn it to the ground.
  
  Now, there will be times when you have to go to war. You can build dozens of different units throughout 
 the game. It depends on what era your in. If your in the midevil era, you will be using archers, 
 swordsman and catipults. If your in the modern era, you will be using tanks, jets and infantry. 
 In war, if your strong enough, you can capture cities and you will have the option of keeping the 
 city and annexing it or razing it. You can choose to go into peace negotiations or conquering the 
 nation your at war with.
  
  You can also earn wealth. You can decide whether you want it to go to research or for it to go 
 to benefit your culture. Research is important because you need to make technological advancements 
 if you want to succeed. You can research a ton of things including gunpowder, printing press or 
 mass media.
  
  Unfortunately, there are a lot of down sides to it. In the modern era, you can take tanks against 
 a civilization thats 100 years behind you and they could still be using musket rifles or even macemen 
 against you and sometimes, they will make military victories with these old weapons against your 
 modern day military. We all know, that is unreal. Also, you can use nuclear weapons against your 
 enemies and you can launch it at their cities. They should be reduced to dust but some buildings 
 still stand. The nuclear blast only reduces some of the population of a city and the city still 
 runs like normal. There is some more problems with the game but thats all I can think of right 
 now.
  
  Overall, its an awesome game. This is one of those games you will spend sleepless nights with. 
 I recommend it to anybody who loves strategy and one who is into politics. I would say that this 
 is the best turn based strategy game so far. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hardheartman
Rating: 6
Date: Sep 24, 2007 1:58 am PT
Review:  base of this game is similar with civ3 but gameplay is very weaker.
  Nothing new and interesting was added in this version, but some good things from previous versions 
 have been removed or changed for the worse. The game designers decided to focus on graphics and 
 make changes where THEY WEREN'T NEEDED!
  Some of the things I like in this version are the new graphics and the tech tree navigation, but 
 these improvements don't add much to the game. war system at this game is poor and unreal. Helikopters 
 are shot down by archers tanks destroyed by macemen.
  If I had my time over again I wouldn't have bought it. I'll just go back to playing Civ III. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stussy29
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 19, 2007 9:40 am PT
Review:  I picked this game up thinking i cant wait to play this, looks like the kinda game i could really 
 get stuck into.
  That was my feeling untill ten minutes into it, talk about complicated and talk about time consuming 
 just to learn how to play the damn thing.
  I wouldnt bother with this unless u really wanna throw urself into it and throw ur life away at 
 the sametime.
  I personnaly cant be assed, good game, well coulda been if theyd just made it alittle more user 
 freindly, the graphics are great and the game itself has loadsa potential if u have the patience. 
 Its a shame because all the elements are there for a great game, they just made the damn thing 
 far too complicated that u tire of it within 10 minutes.
  Take command and conquer for example now that game has everything civilization has but its so much 
 more pick up and play.
  Thats why i would reccomend that game over this one anyday. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ndru01
Rating: 4.5
Date: Sep 20, 2007 6:28 pm PT
Review:  I've played all the versions of Civ except Call to Power. I've also played Sid Meier's Colonisation 
 and Alpha Centauri.
  
  The Civ system is still one of the best 4X type games ever made but this franchise is beginning 
 to wear a bit thin. In fact, I think Civ IV is a great step backwards, and reminds me of the clumsy 
 system that was used in Alpha Centauri. Some of the good functions from previous versions have 
 been lost and make the game worse for it, or management functions could have been added to make 
 the game easier to control the masses of units and cities. For example, the city management tools 
 that were available in previous versions (and in Master of Orion II) should be in this version 
 to make it easier to control production and allocation of citizens, but its missing in this version. 
 This means that you have to go into each city and adjust allocations rather than from a global 
 table. Production queing also seems to have gotten more complicated. A lot of the diplomatic options 
 from previous games seem to have disappeared. I personally think the interface of Civ III was the 
 best of the franchise because it just polished the best bits of the Civ system to a high shine 
 It seems like the developers disregarded that this is a 4X game and forgot to enhance the administrative 
 tools to make managing a 4X.
  
  Some of the things I like in this version are the new graphics and the tech tree navigation, but 
 these improvements don't add much to the game. The excitement of Civization still is really all 
 in the beginning when everyone you dashes to establish and develop the starting location for their 
 civilizations at the expense of other players. The feeling of wanting to play just one more turn 
 is also there, but it gets very tedious by the last third of the game. Admittedly, this has been 
 a problem with all the versions of Civilization. In summary, I feel that Firaxis are just milking 
 a cow with this version of Civiliziation. The interfaces are now less user-friendly and the new 
 graphics are OK but don't add to the game's value. Nothing new and interesting was added in this 
 version, but some good things from previous versions have been removed or changed for the worse. 
 Overall, I bought Civ IV as a nostalgia trip plus to see if something new and interesting had been 
 added but it ended up being a disappointment. If I had my time over again I wouldn't have bought 
 it. I'll just go back to playing Civ III. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Brendissimo35
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 16, 2007 11:05 am PT
Review:  Civilization 4 is a really fun game, based on a formula of expansion, growth, and conquest. However, 
 it does have some flaws
  
  Graphics- The Graphics on this game are, by all standards, nothing special, but a vast improvement 
 over previous Civ titles. Besides, graphics in a strategy game aren't really the main focus.
  
  Sound- The game has some great music tracks, which are era specific and usually appropriate. 
 While the music does get a bit repetitive, I still haven't gotten tired of the opening title. The 
 sound effects are pretty funny, which help contribute to the feeling that Civ4 is just a game . 
 A good thing, in my opinion.
  
  Gameplay- This is where Civ4 really shines. The game is really infinitely replayable, with infinite 
 possibilities and completely ludicrous historical combinations to try! The city building and expanding 
 mechanic is very solid, however combat needs ALOT of work. Battles are simplistic and very unbalanced 
 at best, relying almost completely on numbers and tech level rather than strategy or practicality. 
 I for one, feel that stone age spearmen should never be able to defeat attack helicopters. In addition 
 to this, some of the civics and the entire religion mechanic are completely pointless, which is 
 a shame, considering they could have been put to very good use. Ultimately though, the game is 
 still very good, and very addictive. I give it an 8. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: WinWalter
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 30, 2007 7:40 pm PT
Review:  World simulation games have been generally, a small niche market. I remember back to the days of 
 Populous or Sim City and those games were simply enjoyable because they were unique. Giving you 
 so much power over simulated people can be enthralling to many and Civilizaition IV only improves 
 on the concept with many new improvements and options.
  
  To start, Civilization IV is the continuation of a long running series from Sid Meier. This game 
 is a world simulation game that allows you to start your own civilization from the stone age, through 
 to future ages.
  
  Your objective is to lead your civilization to victory. What makes this civilization better and 
 different is the fact that you can win the game through carious means such as being the cultural 
 leader by collecting enough cultural points. Another one is to conquer the world like an evil emperor 
 or you can be the first to travel into space. With so many ways of winning, it's really up to you 
 how to play.
  
  There's dozens of civilizations to choose from and many of them have various leaders. If you like 
 Napolean of the French, that's great, but if not, you can choose Louis the 14th. Each leader also 
 has different bonuses to how you play. Some increase your money while others increase the growth 
 rate of your cities.
  
  The terrain of the world plays a significant role. Certain types allow roads to be built better 
 while sea spots have extra food available. Your workers are able to build roads, other cities and 
 other key pieces of infrastructure. For example, they could build a mine, which gives you a chance 
 to find iron. Without iron, you can not build swordsman, an early offensive unit. It is key for 
 you to continously extend your reach, otherwise, enemies will be invading your lands, stealing 
 your resources and encroaching on things that were once under your influence. The great example 
 of this is the fact that you can become so influential, you can take over cities without ever laying 
 a figure on them because of your sheer influence.
  
  Never being the same, keeps the gameplay fresh almost every time. With so many different mods and 
 playable scenarios, it's nearly impossible to predict what your opponent is going to do next. This 
 is exactly the same in Multiplayer. The game does allow you to have simultaneous turns so does 
 speed it up a bit.
  
  Technologies still play a large part of the game and researching them allows you to get other technologies 
 and new units. Trust me, a battleship will destroy a frigate any day of the week but you better 
 have enough oil to keep your army going or it won't matter what technologies you have.
  
  One key part of the game is too make sure to make allies with some neighbours while making enemies 
 with the others. Montezuma of the Aztecs is extremely untrustworthy and very militaristic so getting 
 them as an ally or getting them to do what you want is nearly impossible at times. Civilization 
 has so many layers, that everyone may find something to like. I recommend this game whole-heartedly. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: More_Dakka
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 20, 2007 12:58 pm PT
Review:  Sid Meier has done it again! Civilization 4 is the latest addition to the long running and popular 
 Civilization series, and Civilization 4 easily manages to continue the series streak of greatness. 
 While its unsurprisingly a rather large rehash of Civilization 3, Civilization 4 adds on enough 
 improvements to keep things interesting.
  
  The basic gameplay is exactly the same as it was in Civ 3, you must lead your civilization to greatness 
 from the dawn of civilization, all the way up into the future and the final frontier... But will 
 you make a civilization that can last that long? You'll undobtedly enjoy making your civiliation 
 thrive, as Civ 4 uses the exact same formula Civ 3 does. That formula has aged remarkably however, 
 so if you loved Civ 3, you'll love Civ 4. If you did love Civ 3, then feel free to stop reading 
 right here, and skip down to the final paragraph along with my pros and cons section.
  
  Civ 4 does add on some new features to keep track of. For starters, religion is now an issue. Religion 
 does a lot of things in the game. If your state religion is the same as your cities religions, 
 then you get bonuses from those cities. But religion also affects diplomacy with the new AI, as 
 they keep track of what religion you are. If you aren't of their religion- its basically a given 
 their going to hate you- so you'd better strengthen your defenses against them... But if you are 
 the same religion, then you'll like each other more! Of course, you can also send monks/missionaries 
 to the AI's towns to help convert him or her slowly. There are also new government organisations 
 that you can chose from. For example, you could choose to have free religion, slavery, feudalism, 
 etc. These can drastically change how your empire works, and allow for flexability to how you want 
 to govern your empire.
  
  The other changes are all in place to help make Civ 4 a better experience than Civ 3. The biggest 
 change here is the new AI. The AI of Civ 3 was infamous for usually sending units piecemeal at 
 you, and not being very aggressive or decisive in general. It also cheated, knowing where all the 
 resources on the map were. Civ 4's AI is improved in all of these areas however. It doesn't seem 
 to cheat anymore from what I could tell, and it now sends organised armies at you. Its also more 
 aggressive with its diplomacy, declaring war more often, driving harder bargains, etc.
  
  Civ 4 also has a reformated interface, but of all the changes, this is the one change that is disappointing. 
 The new interface takes more getting used to than Civ 3's interface ever did, for Civ 4's interface 
 is not as easy to navigate, and seems less versatile all around. It still gets the job done very 
 well however, so this is a minor complaint.
  
  Graphically, Civ 4 has a new 3d engine which captures the theme of human history very well. Its 
 no powerhouse, but it still looks good. Sound wise, the classic civilization sounds and music are 
 here, but there's ultimately nothing truely worth noting.
  
  So Civ 4 is ultimately another great enhancement for the Civilization series. Civilization fans 
 will undoubtedly love Civ 4, and new comers shouldn't have that hard of a time getting into it. 
 In short, Civilization 4 is a great game that anyone should be able to enjoy.
  
  Pros: Classic Civ 3 formula still works just as well as before, if not better. Excellent new AI.
 
  
  Cons: Interface is not quite as versatile as Civ 3's interface was.
  
  Recommendable for: Civilization fans and new comers alike should be able to love Civ 4. Just make 
 sure you've got hours worth of free time on your hands! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: medic4hire
Rating: 8.8
Date: Aug 6, 2007 9:03 pm PT
Review:  Can a game be rated at 10? Maybe not, but this game comes close. It is worth every penny that you 
 spend. Don't care for turn-based strategy? This one will change your mind. Of course the Civilization 
 series has gone on forever, but this one makes a unique change. It adds an actual graphics improvement. 
 The add-ons are endless. but you can play for months with the original game. Have you never played 
 a turn based strategy, this is the best introduction that you can be offered. You do not need to 
 play the previous Civilization games to enjoy this one! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Llarrev
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 30, 2007 3:26 pm PT
Review:  Yet another superb game from Sid Meier and co, provides yet further improvement upon the old classic 
 style of gameplay. The main aim, as with the entire series, is to conquer the world in the role 
 of a great leader of one of the nations, or extinct civilizations of the world. You begin with 
 a settler, and develop from that one settlement a vast empire with many different ways to achieve 
 victory, including diplomatic, being voted world leader by the UN, and cultural, created the most 
 well-cultured civilization on the planet. This allows players to play to their strengths, with 
 more emphasis on the strategic elements of the game, rather than raw power. All in all an easy 
 game to pick up and play, but much more difficult to master.
  
  The unique factions system, from the previous installment, is carried over. As before, each tribal 
 faction has two unique characteristics. As well as the old traits, new ones are added with new 
 affects, such as; expansive, which allows your settlements to grow at a faster rate. Though this 
 system was in the previous game, it has evolved slightly, the choice of civilization really does 
 play a visible role in the development of a game. This is just one of many of the improved, pre-existing 
 elements of the game, that have sustained great improvement. The unit combat system has thankfully 
 gone under some development. Units are given a clear score for strength, obviously more technologically 
 advanced are stronger and therefore almost always overpower their predecessors. This overcomes 
 the problem of the warrior defeating the rifleman. Further more, upon defeating opponents, your 
 units receive experience points and gain levels. Upon leveling up, your units can receive upgrades 
 such as city attack +10, etc. Artillery has also been given a new lease of life, as they can now 
 bombard targets, such as cities or stacks of enemies. These bring more depth to the combat and 
 give the player more options on how they want to go about war waging. There is also a new border 
 system in Civilization IV, which also creates a big impact on diplomacy. Now, neither you, nor 
 your enemies may enter an opposing competitors cultural borders, unless, wither you are at war, 
 or have come to the diplomatic agreement of Open Borders. This eliminates the age old classic, 
 of both A. I and human players, to approach a neighbouring powers weaker settlements, then declare 
 war once a turn or two away and wipe them out in one fell swoop. This means that within diplomacy, 
 one can be a little less placatory, and do not have to threaten an ally to leave your borders, 
 which can end in them becoming so irritated that they declare war anyway. This is a great boon 
 for players like myself, who like to advance way beyond their competitors in technology and expansion, 
 and then build an army of tanks whilst my rivals are stuck in the middle ages and wipe 'em out 
 quickly. This system is a great help in the defensive, or time-biding players like myself. However, 
 by hiding away in one's own empire, when other nations declare war on one another and ask you for 
 help, if you refuse, they can become annoyed. The A. I opposition remembers all the actions made 
 by you in the game, you can use this to your advantage, or your deficit. Another great new adjustment 
 has been made to the Civilization experience-religion. Religion does not have a huge affect on 
 the gameplay, but it is a nifty little addition to the game. Each religion has its own unique wonder 
 and can produce its own great people, such as Judaism having Moses. Other nations are more disposed 
 towards you if you are of the same religion. Also, as you uncover the technology which leads to 
 this religion, you can develop a free society with many religions in one city, you are also able 
 to send people to your own cities, or to the cities of rivals to spread your religion. Though pursuing 
 religion does not, in itself affect the strategy of your game, it can yield bonuses which do. Religious 
 buildings produce culture per turn which contributes towards cultural supremacy. The Great People 
 system is also a refreshing delight. Great People can be used effectively like currency in exchange 
 for a variety of useful bonuses. Great military leaders can be converted into generals which can 
 empower your armies. Great artists can paint a masterpiece which causes rapid culture growth in 
 your city, and two great people can be sacrificed to produce a golden age. The appearance of great 
 people is rare and as they die upon the use of any of their abilities they're not a safe bet to 
 bank upon.
  
  Strategy is further emphasized over purposelessness. Workers have a wider array of capabilities, 
 such as building a smaller settlement outside a major one, which can expand and eventually become 
 a conurbation into a main city. They can also develop farms or pastures to put around cows, or 
 sheep to use as a resource. This de-simplifying of the game, to make it more strategic has lead 
 to the removal of the industrious leader trait, as it gave civilizations too much of a boost to 
 begin with. This means the start of a game is short and all nations begin on a more even keel, 
 but later the true differences in style begin to emerge. Further more, one cannot switch production 
 of a building half way through its construction without sacrificing all the production points, 
 this means more thought must be given to each building decision. The A. I also seems a lot more 
 reasonable, a string of cities does not appear overturn, nor do they make so many demands for war 
 threats, whilst more reasonable they're also a little more challenging and the difficulty level 
 I feel has been scaled a lot better.
  
  Another new addition is that now one can choose ones own pace of gameplay. This is good, as those 
 who like to take their time may choose an epic pace, those who like a pleasure rush can enjoy fast 
 paced gameplay, and of course, if like me you prefer a balance, one can choose normal. Personally 
 I found epic a little too slow at times, and fast a touch too quick, the bombardment of alert messages 
 inspires tedium in my impatient mind. So I would most definitely recommend normal.
  
  The multiplayer has, most mercifully undergone some changes since Play the World. As in its is 
 feasibly possible to finish a game, but really differs very little from the singleplayer. My only 
 complaint about the gameplay is when I introduced it to someone who had never played a civilization 
 game, there were just too many concepts for him to get to grips with him, myself only just getting 
 the game I too did not know too much about the inner workings of the newer additions. But once 
 this has been gotten too grips with, the juicy innards of this very large orange were revealed. 
 The game is also presented better than its predecessors both graphically, in terms of style and 
 finesse and sound. The casting of the legendary Leonard Nimoy as a narrator for the opening of 
 the game. This speech though lengthy is worth listening too, it is presented well and Nimoy's narration 
 is quite good. His reading of famous related quotes upon the discovery of a new technology, is 
 also a nice little snippet. The graphics are also rather beautiful. The map is wonderful, the character 
 animations of the leaders is excellent and my personal favourite, the little animation following 
 the construction of a wonder, are all though seemingly insignificant, great touches which just 
 provide that extra flair. On top of this is the beautiful soundtrack, with title song Baba Yetu, 
 which is infact the lord's prayer (Our father who art in heaven, hallowed be thy name, etc.) in 
 Swahili, with certain phrases repeated to fit a pleasant tune. The song is truly awesome and all 
 of these factors coupled together just give the game a sense of epic beauty which heightens its 
 depth. All of these factors combined is why I have rated this game best in series, so far.... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: garrujr
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jul 27, 2007 11:48 am PT
Review:  I've been a big fan of the Civilization series for many years, so this release had me excited. 
 The minimum requirements disappointed me. The addition of 3D graphics, while beautiful, put a strangle 
 hold on what would otherwise be a perfect 10 of a game. I think the developers lost sight of the 
 fact that many strategy gamers live life well below the curve of PC upgrades.
  
  This game required a paradigm shift if you're used to playing Civ 3. You have to think differently 
 about early conquests. That learning curve was a hard one to overcome, but once you're confident 
 with the mechanics of the game and how the pieces work, the beauty of making them all work together 
 to give you the win is worth everythin you put into it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CRM114
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jul 25, 2007 7:37 pm PT
Review:  This was my first foray into the civilization series in almost 10 years, and I certainly wasn't 
 disappointed. Civilization offers an addictive, and challenging turn-based experience that is sure 
 to occupy your time for days (if not weeks or months!) There's nothing quite as thrilling as managing 
 your very own global empire, and Civ rewards you with both challenging AI opponents and multiple 
 avenues towards victory (military, cultural, space race, etc ) . The low system requirements ensure 
 that this game will run on about any machine available right now, and as an added bonus, I've yet 
 to encounter any problems with running the game under Vista (so far) . If you're looking for a challenging 
 and interesting strategy game, look no further than Civ. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bulldog7
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 24, 2007 10:12 am PT
Review:  I really don't think I have much to add to Gamespot's review. I think they are dead on with this 
 one. It's a strategy game with enormous depth, although depending on the options can be rather 
 accessible to newcomers.
  
  Since the game is almost flawless, i'll focus on what I think could be an improvement (which I'm 
 told the expansions actually fix up a bit)
  
  Graphics: the game is fairly nice looking, but still not the greatest. At least there's animation 
 now! That's a big step for this series. The nice thing about the lower quality graphics is that 
 the system requirements are quite low. And, really, the gameplay is so addictive, you really don't 
 notice the graphics. They aren't bad, and the nuke explosion is sweet, but they could have at least 
 had the OPTION for mid to high-end ranged computers to make the game look nicer.
  
  The reason Gamespot gave the graphics an 8, I'm guessing, is because they tend not to anticipate 
 anything nice looking from a CIV game. Fair enough, none of the games look nice. But still, compared 
 to other strategy games, it by no means deserves an 8 for graphics.
  
  Espionage: Oddly enough, this is one area where the game took a step back. It's very simple, based 
 more on wealth, and is very limited. Not sure why they scaled back the spy's abilities to only 
 2 options, but it is rather disappointing. I loved playing a spy game in which I crippled a nation 
 by sending out 20 spys. Not really possible in this game. (I'm told the second expansion fixes 
 this issue with a lot more options)
  
  There are less units it seems, especially strong units. Maybe it's because I'm comparing it to 
 Alpha Centari, which had literally thousands of units (probably too many) . But it seems that near 
 the end game, as far as militaries go, tech doesn't really give you any advantage. In previous 
 games, if you were 10 techs in front of an enemy, you could rather easily notice the difference 
 as far as units are concerned. Same here, but not near the end of the tech tree, which I find slightly 
 odd. The expansions that add units may address this issue. But I'd say for most, it isn't an issue, 
 just something I noticed.
  
  I have nothing else to complain about, even those things are very minor. It's easily the nicest 
 looking, playing and addictive game in the series. I lost lots of sleep and will lose tons more. 
 Worth buying? If any strategy game is worth buying, it's this one. I can easily see why it was 
 voted PC game of the year for 2005. It's that darn good! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Talon124
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jul 27, 2007 10:27 am PT
Review:  Gameplay::: Addictive but you can only build one unit or building at a time for a city, instead 
 of being to build both at a time (thats is just annoying cause it doesn't make much sense) . The 
 time it takes to train units is also kinda riduclous cause in new cities it takes like 18turns 
 to build a simple swordsman (I know in real life they would need to recruit people and train and 
 everything) which in normal speed is around 18+years. Combat is pretty plain and gets boring as 
 you can't control anything. You can stack units but when fighting you have to send them in one 
 by one... why did they do that???? Small flaws kinda dull the gameplay as you'll get pretty bored 
 if you prefer stuff like Rome: total War or Dawn of War. But the weird thing is I like Galactic 
 Civilization 2 yet I don't like this. COmbat is just too plain and this type of strategy game ain't 
 fun without the combat part. Graphics::: Dated, thats all.
  
  Sound::: Music is pretty good and varied.
  
  Value::: has pretty good stuff with editors and 
 lots of mods.
  
  Tilt::: A bit too boring for me 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FSchafer3
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jul 16, 2007 5:59 pm PT
Review:  Civ 4 is a good game. I expected it to be overhyped and overrated, but that was not the case. It's 
 a major improvement on the older Civs. With Civ 3, gameplay was slow. Things dragged on forever, 
 it seemed like, without you getting anything done. Environments were boring and bland. The same 
 terrain tiles continued on and on. I've heard some criticism on the new interface, but I like it. 
 At points, the older ones were confusing and hard to navigate. A lot of the things I hoped would 
 be fixed or improved were with this game. The ones I mentioned are naming just a few. As for the 
 new ideas introduced in the game - I think they brought more depth to gameplay. Culture building, 
 religious research, great people, the different governments, and ect.............. I think all brought 
 more realism to it and some change from the usual grind in strategy games. I think this game is 
 a gem. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DannyBoy2k
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 23, 2007 4:05 am PT
Review:  This is, quite possibly, about as close as you can get to perfection in a game, at least for the 
 genre. Comparing this to, say, a first-person shooter is like comparing apples and oranges. But, 
 for the 'empire-builder' type game, this is the optimum. Rebuild the glory that was Rome. Rule 
 the British Empire in its glory, and keep that glory shining. Ride with the Ka-Khan and his invinsible 
 horde. All in a spectacularly wide-ranging game.
  
  Now, while I'll admit that the sound might not 'wow' you, that's ok. It more than does the job 
 of conveying ambience, with a judge banging his gavel and shouting for 'order, ORDER!' or a priest 
 chanting. As for the graphics, again, this is not something that'll strain your graphics card to 
 produce massive amounts of frames per second... but it doesn't NEED to. It looks very nice, if not 
 super special. After all, if you play Civilization for the video and audio, you've come to the 
 wrong place.
  No, this you play for the spectacular gameplay and, even more, the IMMENSE replay-value. No two 
 games are ever the same, even if you DO set them up exactly the same way. And, what with the choices 
 in leaders, size of world, and so on... why would you WANT to set it up the same way?
  
  So, in closing... a game with good if not spectacular graphics and sound... and a gameplay value 
 that only stops at 10 because the scale doesn't GO any higher. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SuperMarioDude1
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 10, 2007 1:34 pm PT
Review:  The Good: Complex, satisfying, heavily strategic, remarkably easy to use interface, some RPG elements, 
 great detail, really addicting
  The Bad: Playing by yourself is really easy, somewhat diminished scale, takes about two hours to 
 load 
  
  Have you ever wondered what it would be like to be king (or, to those really picky, dictator) ? 
 What would you do? Would you destroy any country that you deem too large? Would you make your country 
 a peaceful, luxurious resort? Or would you do a little of both? Such is the premise in this amazing 
 strategy game. When beating a rival country is too easy, it is still satisfying to see their axeman 
 grovel at your tank's wheels. The long loading times are worth waiting for because of its replay 
 value. This is how this game achieved its perfect status: blotting out its flaws. And about a billion 
 other ways, too.
  
  Interfaces will never be as complex, yet user friendly as this one. While it isn't the best interface 
 out there, it certainly has the most impressive interface-to-complexity ratio. Sometimes I was 
 frustrated by very useful things appearing small on the screen, like the avoid population button, 
 but everything else is obvious and easy to use.
  
  When you read the "Good and Bad" thing at the top, you'll probably think this game has good graphics. 
 You're partially right, the environments are truly stunning, but what I really mean by "Great Detail" 
 is how the information on each tile of the game board is displayed. Sometimes you won't even have 
 to go into the city interface to see its buildings. The old land and water tile display is over: 
 you can see all of a tile's resources, landforms, and buildings without doing anything.
  
  No matter what you like about everything I have mentioned above, what will really pull you into 
 the game its replay value. One uninterrupted session of Civilization IV can easily run about five 
 hours, not including the time you will punch yourself for stopping the game about five minutes 
 after quitting and get back on the computer.
  
  Overall, this one of the best games I've played. If your computer can run it, buy this game and 
 be addicted to it. This is not crack. This is not cheese. This is Civiliztaion IV!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: r4v3gl0ry
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 16, 2007 10:05 am PT
Review:  I'm admitting now that when I first saw this game on Target's shelves, I laughed. I laughed at 
 the game, the lack of action (or so I thought at the time) , and I even laughed at Sid Meier. Then 
 came my good old computer teacher, who promised anyone a video game on the software catalog for 
 writing at least two articles that would make it into the school newspaper. I wrote 6, and 5 made 
 it.
  
  Because of the lack of any good video games on the catalog, I randomly chose Civilization 4. Boy, 
 had I made another choice, I would be groaning over the long missions of Far Cry and leading heroic 
 defenses in Warhammer 40,000, which of course, gets boring.
  
  I was amazed by the trailer DVD the game came with, but even more impressed when I read the game's 
 manual and box. An hour later, I was starting the tutorial. In those moments of the tutorial, I 
 kinda understood how big the game really was. You start off as a group of hunter-gatherers and 
 work your way up to modern and future technology. The game comes with a technology chart. It was 
 a HUGE chart, explaining everything from cave-men technology to modern machines and future weapons. 
 But, even though I expected it from the beginning, the  page 
 was LOADED with different kinds of civilizations, from the German Empire to the Mongolian Empire, 
 with almost 2 leaders for each Empire. So here's the review:
  
  Gameplay- Game play is pretty much the best part of the game. You start with cave-men, move up 
 to indian-looking warriors, and off to Classical themes and modern themes. The game is played like 
 Risk, alhough I've never played that... But anyway, it's turn-based. You move units like pieces 
 on a board and scout, build trade routes to friendly, build new cities, research anything from 
 religion, to the alphabet, and to sailing. You can win a Cultural Victory, a victory by... culture? 
 Yes, you research more stuff, you gain more points , and your people are happier. The main point 
 of the game is to have fun by expanding your empire, using your subordinates to do various things, 
 and becoming friends with other civilizations while fighting off evil civilizations (just joking 
 about evil) . And of course, you can win by capturing an unprotected base by first off declaring 
 war. You may trade research items and cultural borders, allowing you to learn new things while 
 being able to wander into other civilizations' territory without declaring all-out-war.
  
  The bad part about the game play is that most things- including research- take a long time to finish/produce. 
 A small settler unit will take more than 20 turns to make, confusing the player on what he should 
 do in those above-20 turns, rather than just ending his turn and letting everyone else expand their 
 empire AND gaining more points. This sometimes makes things a little tedious, but it goes away 
 fairly quickly.
  
  Sound- Awesome. The music is authentic, especially the intro and in the main menu, but the same 
 goes for the single and multi-player modes. The languages the people speak sound authentic as well.
 
  
  Graphics- The graphics are fully-detailed and objects are 3D. The leaders look surprisingly realistic 
 as well.
  
  Overall, this game is for anyone who wishes to use up time wisely. Seriously, this game is pretty 
 historical, and it's not a waste of time. There's a load of things to experience in this game, 
 and to me, this is the best PC game I've ever played. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Vain_Apocalypse
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jun 4, 2007 11:20 pm PT
Review:  Civilization is a classic series, each of its games have been a masterpiece in their own time, 
 so this one had pretty big shoes to fill. In order to succeed it had to be a masterpiece in comparison 
 with today's games aswell as build upon the old Civlization formula to create something new, but 
 without neglecting what made its predecessors so great; I'm happy to say that it fulfilled these 
 goal.
  
  This is a marvelous game anyway that you look at it. Its depth and various features ensures a good 
 deal of game time, and if you count its two expansion packs, it's quite the bargain. I've played 
 this game quite a bit, but can't honestly find any fatal flaws. The graphics are new and refreshing 
 with a enjoyably animated feel. The sound is top of the line with a variety of fitting and well 
 prepared musical pieces, and the inclusion of Leonard Nimoy's narration. Civlization IV is a MUST 
 have for ANY fan of the Civ series or simular games. Now, I know there are a few out there who 
 don't dig turn based strategy games because they lack the hack and slash action that some of us 
 need, but I promise you, this game is far less mundane and far less boring and simple than most 
 turn based strategy games, so if nothing else, atleast give it a try.
  
  There just are no other games of this kind with this amount and quality of content. It's a classic. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: duraxx
Rating: 8.2
Date: May 29, 2007 1:29 pm PT
Review:  So civilization is back (well I bought my copy when it came out but only now got around to it so 
 it's back for me now) ... for those of you who played the previous one, you know that sunlight, 
 food, and relationships will all be rationed. For those of you who haven't played a civilization 
 (or any 4x game) before, you can't go wrong with civ 4. Anyway, the review:
  
  Gameplay: 8/10 The gameplay famous in all other civ games is back, and it's deeper than ever. First, 
 world wonders have been dramatically balanced so that there is no singularly essential wonder, 
 and the wonders are more appropriate to what they actually do (i. e. Pyramids used to = granary; 
 now = government civics) . Government has been more fleshed out; instead of having communism or 
 monarchy, you can have a hereditary rule, free-speech, caste-system w/ a theocracy. However, combat 
 is still nearly broken, and I've had multiple instances where I've lost a modern tank to a well 
 fortified musketeer. Additionally, in war, it can take forever to move your units b/c you no longer 
 get access to enemy roads in their territory (I understand railroads but why not roads?) Also, 
 conquering a city can be a huge pain (at least a 10 turn rebellion) , making a campaign take longer 
 than it should. Also, while it is nice that the AI will automate the engineers, the AI will frequently 
 do stupid improvements that actually hurt a city (i. e. turning an irrigated farm into a town, thus 
 severing the irrigation to all other farms in the chain) . Still, the game has so much to do, and 
 is all around fun.
  
  Graphics: 8/10 Easily the best of the series; the graphics are now in full 3-D. As cities get bigger, 
 they sprawl, and it can be a joy to watch your biggest city dominate the landscape. Also, it's 
 cool to see the tiles change based on the era. However, in the late game, some graphical glitching 
 appears including tiles that shimmer as you move the mouse.
  
  Sound: 8/10 Good musical score (a step above elevator music) and nice SFX (stealh bomber attacks 
 are fun) add to the experience. 
  
  Value: 9/10 This game is largely about value. Expect to easily put in 100+ hours into any stone-age 
 to space-age romp. Mods and expansion packs only enhance the experience. The only thing taking 
 away from the value is some of the feeling of same-ness; if you've played the other civ games then 
 you have already done most of this before.
  
  Tilt: 8/10 This game was a huge blast to play, and sucked about 100+ hours of my time. My biggest 
 problems with the game are the glitching that occurs in late game (repeated crashing caused me 
 to save every turn) . Additionally, combat/war has not been improved (a well fortified pikeman can 
 still take 50% health from a modern tank) , other than the ability to destroy city defenses. However, 
 the tweaks to diplomacy and the new governmental system add much needed depth to the traditional 
 expand-research-conquer gameplay. This is a great civilization game, if you haven't played any 
 before, play this one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LauraAdama
Rating: 8.1
Date: May 27, 2007 9:17 pm PT
Review:  Other than the compatibility problems Civilization IV has with Vista, I absolutely love this game. 
 After all, it is one of the most immersive games out there, and there are so many different outcomes 
 that you can come to.
  
  You can play as so many different empires, and within each empire there are different paths you 
 can take, and not to mention, there are levels of difficulty as well. Plus, there are different 
 sized maps you can play on, and climates, and a great deal of other things. Normally, I will run 
 through each civilization at least once each and then start playing with the maps and what not, 
 and I usually lose track of time. I recommend Civilization IV to people who like Sims 1 or Sims 
 2 and anything in that general region. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jasonbesto
Rating: 9
Date: May 22, 2007 1:21 am PT
Review:  Civilization 4 surely does not let gamers down, in most if not all aspects of the game. Established 
 Civilization concepts like the science research tree, wonders of the world, and cultural, military, and 
 economic might have never been so accessible and fun to tinker with. The new 3D Graphics will wow 
 both old and new players.
  
  An interesting new concept is the founding of religions, which allow players to track the troop 
 movements of nearby civs that have adopted your religion. However, this does not have as much impact 
 on the game as there is no religion-centered victory condition. A future version of the game could 
 do well to make religion a more powerful concept.
  
  There's just so much positive things going for this game, it's hard to write them all down, I unabashedly 
 suggest you just buy the game and settle down for some serious town-founding and empire-building.
 
  
  Civilization 4 is a great TBS for gamers like you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thk123
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 19, 2007 9:26 am PT
Review:  Civilization 4
  
  System: PC
  Type: TBS
  Graphics: 8/10
  Sound: 8/10
  Gameplay: 10/10
  Story: n/a
  Multiplayer 9/10
  Overall: 9.5/10
  
  This is one of my most 
 anticipated reviews for one of my most anticipated games. The wait to get this game working was 
 a long time, but it was definitely worth the wait. I hope the wait for the review is the same. 
 The game, although doesn't flow on my computer, is truly addictive. The graphics and the user interface 
 make is very approachable whilst still retaining the depth and addictivity this series is famous 
 for. In this game you are put in charge of one of the worlds Civilizations at the dawn of man. 
 There is a great choice of countries each with their own unique units and starting technologies. 
 Then you must choose a leader, each leader has different skills, some will make it easier to make 
 money, whilst overs will make it easier to make war! Your decision of who you choose and who the 
 enemy is will greatly effect the outcome of the game. Some leaders are very aggressive whilst others 
 will never attack. The choice of leaders and Civilizations is truly fantastic you will almost certainly 
 find a country that matches your playing style. This game is said to be addictive, smoking is addictive, 
 and people can quit smoking. This game really is impossible to quit. The game is similar to a Pringle 
 in that each turn isn't quite enough to fill you up, but enough for you to want more. Civilization 
 4, as you might have guessed, is turn based. In your turn you can do anything and everything, but 
 only once. This structure is well established and means you can play the game at a leisurely pace, 
 working out your next move thoroughly. My only criticism of this is sometimes, at the start, quite 
 a lot of your goes will be just skipping to the next go. This can be quite dull as you are just 
 watching a city build one unit, which is relatively slow. Once this phase is over, all of the goes 
 present you with many decisions and things to control and the first turns are a small price to 
 pay for the balanced game that follows. The game has been made very intuitive with many controls 
 hidden so as to not confuse new players. The interface is very clear and it is easy to get to grips 
 with. There are a lot of things to remember and manage in this game, but fortunately the computer 
 looks after some of the micro-management areas automatically. Sometimes I feel the computer takes 
 away a little too much, but you can override the computer and control the computer without too 
 much trouble. The city management is an excellent example of this. The computer, by default, controls 
 what squares the city works, however, you can both override the computer or tell it to focus on 
 collection a certain thing, such as production. Also, you can make the governor choose which units 
 to build and even whether to hurry them or not. In addition to this, the game will give you tool 
 tips suggesting what you should build and alerting you to citizen unrest. Sometimes, these can 
 get a bit annoying, particularly if you empire is going through a period of decay and each turn 
 you are painfully reminded about something you are fully aware of. Moving units is done by clicking 
 where you want them to go. How quickly they get their depends on the type of unit they are, for 
 example, horses can move faster than troops, and the terrain they are crossing. An example is an 
 explorer, who has two movement points. This means on a normal square he can move two squares. However, 
 a hill will use both points as it is more difficult to ascend. This is fine, except with that same 
 hill, it would take a unit with one movement point the same amount of time to get up. Now obviously, 
 they couldn't have it so that the one movement point unit couldn't get up, because they would never 
 have enough movement points, and we know it isn't impossible to climb a hill, just harder. However 
 in history, hills have had a great impact on military plans. Hitler took his troops right round 
 a set of hills to save him time early on in WWII. In the game however, it is just as quick and 
 more advantageous to cross the hills. I think that units with one movement point should have to 
 spend an extra turn at the top to slow them down. This is not a big criticism and is doesn't effect 
 the game much, just a little frustrating if you are trying to defend a place surrounded by hills.
 
  
  The replayability of this game is fantastic. There is a wide variety of random maps. Each different 
 map has different rules for how the map should be generated so you have an idea of what map your 
 going to get, whilst still retaining enough randomness that no two maps will ever be the same. 
 Furthermore, when you start a game, there are hundreds of things you can customise to make the 
 game different. For example, you can randomise the AIs personalities, so that if you get used to 
 them and know their plans too well, you can change them to keep you guessing and making it feel 
 like the first game all over again. Another thing is you can make the barbarians and/or the AI 
 more aggressive for a more competitive game. Thirdly, you can choose to start in different eras 
 and set special rules such as only allowing one city to be built by each civilization. On top of 
 this, there are a wide variety of scenarios you can play. These scenarios recreate famous periods 
 in history or alternate history and because it goes in to more details, there are many more relevant 
 units. Furthermore, you can download many more Mods to customise the game and provide you with 
 even more scenarios. All this adds up to a game that you can keep coming back to and never get 
 the same experience.
  
  The AI is very intelligent throughout the game. They will hold grudges, remember how you treated 
 them and notice subtle things like you trapping them. All these will contribute to their opinion 
 of you and thus how they treat you, you diplomatic attempts and ultimately whether to go to war 
 with you. The AI play very competitively and you will never see them do anything particularly stupid. 
 The military command is superb. They will often outmanoeuvre you. They use their troops special 
 abilities very well, making sure to protect their week units and only attack when victory is almost 
 certain. They play very tactically, once I was at war with two people, one of them attacked me 
 with a large number of troops on the west, consequently I moved my entire force in that direction, 
 only to find the other person sending down a large armada from the north. My forces were split 
 and none of them were where I needed them. I then lost most of my cities and had to pull back to 
 my capital to regroup. Although I don't think they were working together, the second person was 
 definitely waiting for a opening in my defence. It is not uncommon to loose a game, even on low 
 difficulties, when there are many AIs as some of them might sneak in with a late space race victory. 
 The graphics are excellent. The models look very nice and despite the game being set on a grid, 
 the cities and terrains sprawl in to neighbouring squares making the game look very flexible. There 
 are the occasional graphics error and units appear to being growing out of the city when they are 
 defending them, however overall the presentation is excellent. The animations for the fights, although 
 not dynamic, are very interesting and amusing to watch. It is just 3v3, however, there are neat 
 explosions with grenadiers and each unit attacks differently. Also, you can tell how the battle 
 is going based on how many troops are still standing, although things can change half way through. 
 I cannot properly comment on the sound, as my computer is not powerful enough to run it. However, 
 the little I have heard is very good and fits with the game. The ambient sounds are excellent. 
 A case of this is when you send soldiers in to a forest, you can hear birds chirping as they fly 
 away, you can hear waves lapping if you are near the sea and mountains emit hawk sounds. They are 
 so fantastic that sometimes you won't even notice them and they just settle in to the background. 
 This all adds up to an excellent sound track. This made much better because you can tell Civilization 
 where your music folder is and listen to your music instead. It is frustrating not being able to 
 skip tracks, despite this, it remains a nice feature and leaves me very positive about the music. 
 The multiplayer is fantastic. It is easy to set up an online game and find people to play. The 
 games can support huge numbers and as host, you can choose all the features you would normally 
 be able to offline. Naturally you can store friends and send private messages, but some other features 
 are a bit lacking, such as no support for Clans. In addition, the game provides many alternatives 
 for MP games. These include play be email and hot seat. Hotseat unfortunately suffers from the 
 aforementioned early goes problem. It is even more severe, as all players have too keep getting 
 up to press enter. You need enthusiasts for the Hotseat as in the late game, when the turns are 
 much longer, it can be tedious for the rest of the players, who are just sitting there. Recently, 
 a tool called the PitBoss was released. It allowed players to sign in to the game at any time, 
 take their go and then leave. This way people from different time zones could play. I haven't tried 
 this but it is meant to be very good and more ways to play can't be a bad thing. In conclusion, 
 this game is stunning. You will be able to keep playing on this game again and again. The gameplay 
 is addictive and fun. New players will find it accessible whilst old veterans will find it plenty 
 deep. There is a huge online community to provide you with new Mods that will completely change 
 the game dynamics. The multiplayer is well done, if lacking in features such as clans. The game 
 feels very well polished and the sound and visuals are things to set your watch by. On a side note, 
 the instruction manual is very detailed and interesting to read. It is a thick as the actual box. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Osma7
Rating: 8.9
Date: May 17, 2007 11:45 pm PT
Review:  Civilization 4 is an incredible game dealing with the rise of a nation from stone using wanderers 
 to space flying superpowers.
  
  Civilization 4 is incredibly complex and varied, takes a long time in the fastest mode and is even 
 more fun in longer modes. It is highly strategic, making you deside War, Civics, or Tech. How you 
 answer this question leads to the many ways to win, from Domination or killing all your enemies, 
 to being the most cultured or the most diplomatic, to building spaceships. Further, any and all 
 mixes are avaible of the above. A high tech civilization who has been diplomatic for the whole 
 game can suddenly take his legion of modern armor and rampage through the lower tech and warmongers, 
 beating them at their own game.
  
  Of all the good things about this game I could say, I will simply state the biggest reason of all: 
 Replay Value. Civ's graphics are not the best and the music, while varied, isn't anything to notice 
 (most of the time) . But with dozens of civilization leaders to play, tons of ways to play, and 
 each map being diffrent from every other map, you will never have the same game twice, even if 
 you use the same playing style every time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: br0kenrabbit
Rating: 9.2
Date: May 5, 2007 5:39 pm PT
Review:  I've had the Civ bug since Civ II. One thing that has always irked me is that I didn't have control 
 of my borders... I'd ask a straying unit to leave, and the very next turn they'd be back in my territory.
 
  
  Civ IV not only answered my prayers in respect to border control, but they gave me religion, too! 
 While it took me a few games to learn just how much influence religion has here, once I understood 
 it, it expanded the strategic value of the game beyond any of its predecessors.
  
  The new land improvement options are nice, and a natural step from the land improvements offered 
 in previous games. The new battle system adds a bit more micromanagement to combat, but for people 
 like me that's a good thing.
  
  The two complaints I have are as follows: 1) The movies are nowhere near as good as in Civ II, 
 and 2) There aren't nearly enough variety in the units, especially late-game.
  
  With the Warlords and Beyond the Sword expansions, hopefully the latter will be taken care of.
 
  
  Civilization remains the most addicting game I've ever played, and this fourth iteration of it 
 is the best yet. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nascarfan123
Rating: 8.6
Date: Apr 30, 2007 2:27 pm PT
Review:  Civilization 4 does not change how games in the future will be made, nor does it bring in stunning 
 new graphics or a new game play feature; it is just a fun game that will engage you in for hours 
 at a time. If you combined chess with a real-time strategy game the product would be Civilization 
 4; it is a turn-based strategy game that focuses on starting a new civilization, expanding your 
 empire, and eventually trying to conquer the world. Expansion strategies vary and can include trading 
 with other empires, starting a new colony or city, or by going to war and capturing territories 
 from other empires. Beware; all actions have a consequence in this game. If you declare war on 
 one empire one of their allies might join them and declare war on you. Civilization 4 offers a 
 wide variety of options when you start a new game, although it doesnt offer a whole lot of scenarios 
 they are still worth playing. When starting a new game you can choose between which of many world 
 leaders you want, how big the world is, how fast the game speed is, what time period you start 
 in, and many more. From there on you start your first colony then start expanding its culture, 
 production, research and technology, and military. The game goes by at a pretty good pace and has 
 different eras that you will go through time, like the classical era and the modern era. Researching 
 new technologys go by pretty quickly, and discovering certain technologys will allow you to research 
 other technologys; or start building new items or start a new religion.
  
  Religion is something new brought into Civilization 4, and there are 7 world religions available. 
 Once one empire discovers a certain religion no other empire can practice that religion unless 
 they convert from their old religion to a new one. There are different ways to spread religion 
 through your own and others empires. For the most part, religion will spread through your own 
 empire if roads connect through your major cities. Spreading a religion from one empire from another 
 can be done by use of trade or force; or by using religious mercenaries. Although religion is not 
 an important part of the game it does add a nice touch of strategy and depth into the game.
  
  The multiplayer portion of Civilization 4 is just as good to play as the single player. However, 
 when you start a new game you dont have as much options available as you would in single player. 
 Playing against other players is a lot of fun, and it feels a lot like a chess match. Even though 
 the AI in Civilization 4 is really good, the multiplayer is more fun to play. Essentially, the 
 multiplayer portion of Civilization 4 will keep players coming back for more long after they first 
 buy the game.
  
  Civilization 4s graphics arent technically amazing; however the game balances that out by not 
 requiring people to have high-end computers in order to run the game. You wont catch yourself 
 saying Ohhhh, ahhh while looking at the game, but the game doesnt look bad in any way. The graphics 
 in this game are rather artistic, and every once in a while you will stop to take a look at the 
 whole world that you are playing in because the game is just beautiful to look at.
  
  Civilization 4s sound is the strongest aspect of the game. The music in this game is absolutely 
 beautiful to listen to, and some of the songs sound like they could come straight out of a Disney 
 movie. The in-game sounds themselves are decent, but like the graphics in the game it isnt stunning 
 or terrible. The music in the game will be enjoyed the most.
  
  Civilization 4 is a fun game to play and is recommendable to anyone. Countless hours will go by 
 in each sitting, and youll still be thinking to yourself 5 more minutes. Civilization 4 doesnt 
 need high-end PCs to run the game, thus making it even more capable to expand to more players. 
 It will be very interesting to see what the first expansion pack brings to players. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ladiesman48
Rating: 6.7
Date: Apr 26, 2007 4:58 pm PT
Review:  So any way let me guess you were walking trought best buy or Gamestop and saw a game called Civilization 
 IV you ask one of the workers how this game is and then you buy it. Well it starts out to be great 
 and stuff like you can make cities research stuff like reiligion, law, hunting and all that other 
 stuff and you think it's a great game. Well it is at first but i must warn if you are goin to buy 
 this game. Like me after 2-3 weeks you'll get kinda tired of it and foucus on other games. And 
 you'll just play it once a every 2-6 days but it's a ok game i guess. Well thats it. PEACE! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dark_scrolls
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 25, 2007 6:58 am PT
Review:  Ever wanted to be God? Ever wanted to build, govern a city? If yes then your answer is to play 
 Sid meier's Civilization IV. Civilization IV the best game in its series and is a turn based strategy 
 game that is very fun and enjoyable. With its broad range of leaders and ancient civilizations 
 to choose from, you will be hooked playing this game. It has beautiful sound, graphics and gameplay. 
 You can play a single player campaign or even go online and challenge a human player to play against. 
 It is very addicting and you will be glued to your seat playing this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Shane_F
Rating: 9.9
Date: Apr 19, 2007 2:17 pm PT
Review:  This game is top notch. I wanted a while before getting this game and I am glad I did get it once 
 I built a new gaming rig.
  
  The graphics and the game play is what would expect from a Civ series. The expandable of the game 
 is so nice and flexible. If this is Civ 4 what will Civ 5 look like. 1st person views?
  
  The game though has an intense learning curve even for someone familiarize with the Civ series.
 
  
  Pro: Leonard Nimoy doing the narration for the game. Graphics are top notch.
  Con: If you have a slow machine, upgrade. You will need it to play this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jinsing129
Rating: 9.6
Date: Apr 6, 2007 9:25 am PT
Review:  If you get a few hours into this game and your not bored yet then you'll probably be playing for 
 days to come. Civilization 4 is fun for series vets (I've been playing since Civilization 2) and 
 newcomers to the series. Updated graphics and game play from previous games, and the addition of 
 Leonard Nemoy as the narrator help to make C4 a RTS not to be missed. My only qualms with this 
 wonderful game is the lack of better CGI sequences and the idiocy of some of the A. I, also I experienced 
 a few moments were the game felt overly laggey. Overall though, this is a great game that is worth 
 your buy, and one that you can find for around $20 at most retail stores. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: darkphoenix777
Rating: 8.4
Date: Mar 27, 2007 5:02 pm PT
Review:  While my score may suggest that I underappreciate Civilisation IV, I must stress that I do not. 
 Countless of my hours have been burnt totally immersed in this very polished game. From the moment 
 I established my first city and got to grips with the initial technologies researched in order 
 to establish the economical, religious and military direction of it, I was totally hooked. My personal 
 favourite moment of the campaign occurred when my chosen civilisation advanced into the Baroque 
 era, where I saw it really flourish culturally (accompanied by a beautiful contemporary soundtrack) .
 
  
  However, the moment I choose to stop playing any given campaign occurs every time with the advancement 
 to the Modern age and beyond. This is where I feel the game is let down. Where before you could 
 keep track of every move your builders would make, now they buzz around chaotically. Neighbouring 
 factions will constantly declare war and the sheer number of available military units becomes too 
 much to handle. All in all, where before the game was a relaxing experience to wile away the hours, 
 at this point in the time-line it becomes sheer havoc.
  
  Of course, my opinion is fairly biased due to the fact I tend to prefer the historical renditions 
 of the genre, however I feel that regardless of this, the gameplay is affected at this late stage 
 of the game (which can take a fair few hours to reach if you prefer the marathon length games as 
 I do) .
  
  I must stress though, that the gameplay for the majority of the game is top class and easily worth 
 the purchase alone. [I decided not to focus on the ins and outs of the gameplay in this review 
 as it is fairly in keeping with previous games of the series: maintaining a high standard] 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vegas_6
Rating: 9.2
Date: Mar 25, 2007 11:58 am PT
Review:  I remember checking up on this game before it was released. Screen shots, videos, previews, news, 
 forums, etc. I was very excited to pick up this game the day it came out. There was alot of hype 
 surrounding this game and many people said don't believe the hype and they still say it now till 
 this point. This is a masterpiece of a game that is highly addictive and will give you less sleep 
 at night.
  
  Let's start with the gameplay. The gameplay of Civilization IV is simply put, flawless. People 
 have complained about bugs and random crashes and I have yet to experience any of it. YOU are in 
 control of an entire nation and it's cities and it's people all depend on you to make the right 
 decisions to reign over a successful empire. This is one of the few turned based strategy games 
 where you have complete control over every aspect of the game and that's what makes this game truly 
 immersive. There is always something to do in this game as it expands to new lands and as your 
 nation evolves through the ages whether it be researching new technology, taking over enemy territory, 
 building new monuments in your cities, or the other hundreds of other things to do while ruling 
 over your civilization. I can't say enough of how fun this game is in general but you can probably 
 get an idea by all the other positive reviews.
  
  Graphics. I'm not going to lie, when I got this game I was pretty surprised at the rather weak 
 graphics at the highest video settings. But if your gameplay is that great, it weighs deeply heavily 
 over the graphics of this game. In the game you can use your scroll buttom to zoom in or out of 
 your screen. The more you zoom in, the more you can see the little details of your city , people, 
 and surroundings that you wouldn't normally see on the normal zoom settings. Additionally, the 
 music also stops playing when you zoom in the closest so you can hear the little sound details 
 of your civilization. If you choose to zoom out, you can practically see your entire nation all 
 in one peice and it really is quite astonishing.
  
  The audio and music in this game is one experience like non other. There are tons and tons of beautiful 
 music played throughout different situations and times during the game and you never get bored 
 of it. I can't say enough about it, the music is just astonishing and is an experience you normally 
 wouldn't hear in any other turned based or real time strategy game out.
  
  One thing you'll never have to worry about this game is it's replay value. There are so many things 
 you can do, that you will come back to this game everytime. It is very fun and so far I haven't 
 gotten tired of it. And at this pace, it doesn't look like I will for quite awhile.
  
  Overall, if you were to get just ONE game this year, Civilization IV has to be it. It covers just 
 about every aspect of building a civilization and keeping it civilized for many generations. This 
 is without a doubt, the greatest turn based strategy game I've ever encountered and is easily the 
 best in the series. The only game that I can see that will top this is Civilization V. Firaxis 
 and 2K Games have certainly outdone themselves again with this masterpiece. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wireman32
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 21, 2007 5:10 pm PT
Review:  Let me precede by saying this review is an effort to dismantle the horrid reviews I have read about 
 this game. I do not think it deserves a full 10, but looking at the 5's and 7's I just want to 
 throw something, so i'm throwing the 10.
  
  Civ 3 was the game that I got my strategy kicks on for many hundreds of hours. I would play it 
 day and night and enjoyed building an empire and obliterating all others. Civ 4 lives up to it's 
 predecessor and delivers an excellent upgrade in graphics, gameplay, and easing the micromanagement 
 woes of civ3.
  
  Graphics:
  Some people have said the graphics are horrible, there's only 3 units, etc, but they must be smokin 
 something because this game is right on the money. If you want to play the battles, play medieval 
 or Rome. This is a civ game. CIV. that stands for civilization, not war. People need to get their 
 heads out of their crevices and actually review the game they are playing. THere is a huge improvement 
 in map movement, allowing you to see Exactly what you need to. There is even an awesome zoom out 
 effect where byou can see the entire planet in 3d, and then zoom back in on an individual with 
 a flip of the mouse wheel! Perhaps the guy who said this game floundered doesn't have a mouse, 
 used an old commodore 64, and thinks Graphics cards are something designers use to get jobs. Units 
 are easily identifiable and detailed, and all the main screens are F1-12 so you can see how you're 
 doing at the touch of the button.
  
  In addition they even added nice city rollovers so you can change production without having to 
 go to the city screen! How sweet indeed. All you do is click below the city, mousewheel down the 
 list, click and done. This is a vast improvement to the previous troublesome interface.
  
  I also get tired of people who say why are the units giants. BAh. If they were to scale you wouldn't 
 be able find them with the worlds most powerful microsope. I say what is you're suggestion ? Oh, 
 none? well here's mine, more units that are actually units. 5-10 guys who stand beside each other. 
 There COULD be a separate screen for fighting, but my lord, why? Everything can happen right there 
 on the screen and you still have the feeling that you are overseeing it all. This is the basis 
 of the game, overseeing what is happening.
  
  Gameplay:
  Well it's civilization. You are in it for the long haul. Games are just as fun as Civ3, and even 
 better now with the updates, changes, and successful addition of religion. I can sit and play this 
 for hours without realizing it. You start out with one city and manage as many as you want while 
 controlling your culture, religions, buildings, armies, war and diplomacy. There is a lot to do, 
 and you can choose an endless amount combinations to run your civilization. So many I'm just going 
 to say it will keep you enthralled however long you're willing to sacrifice.
  
  Major improvements:
  creating units. selecting specific units and grouping them. creation changing 
 in cities. map movement. addition of religion. cities far from capital are no longer useless. Great 
 people can be produced. Improvements to ..... improvements!
  
  the demo isn't great. 100 turns isn't much, and you don't get a feel for how the game can really 
 play. There is an editor, as well as a custom scenario game, so replay value for this game is unlimited.
 
  
  So far I have played this everyday since i got it, and have to drag myself away so i can do stuff 
 like, eat, sleep, etc. Definitely a fun game if you're into strategy or world/city-building sims.
 
  
  Sound:
  Pretty nice. You can add your own tracks. There are nice voice overs when you get a technology. 
 The only thing they could have done better was add voices for when you conquer a civ or other important 
 happening, The people of your country admire you're skills as a commander and celebrate in the 
 streets I dunno, I m not a writer, but it would be cool to have some more specific voiceovers like 
 that.
  
  Value: Same as any game out there. I think there was a lot of work for this game, and it deserves 
 to be paid whatever they are asking. I dished out $40 for civ3 a few years ago. I wouldn't spend 
 that much for this, maybe 30.
  
  Tilt:
  I really thought i would hate this game b/c I loved civ3 so much and wasn't impressed by the demo, 
 but I was pleasantly surprised that the depth of the game has improved, and especially the updates 
 to how things are delegated. If I were to see civ 5 I would want customizable units ( more combat 
 options) and possibly ways you can customize religion through in-game choices. AWESOME addition 
 the now stronger CIV series.
  
  brough to you commercial free courtesy of wireman32 
::::::

::::::
UserName: master_blue
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 24, 2009 4:26 am PT
Review:  Civilization IV is a turn based strategy game set on a grand scale, you take one historical civilization 
 to play as, such as the (ancient and great) Romans, the Greeks, Arabs, Persians etc to more modern 
 civs like Germany, America etc and must create a civilization that will stand the test of time, 
 there are multiple paths to victory, these being construct a space ship to go to alpha centauri, 
 a cultural victory, dominating a sufficient amount of the worlds landmass, conquest were you outright 
 destroy the rival civilizations and finally a diplomatic victory through a UN vote.
  
  Most of the victory conditions will offer different ways to which you can direct your civilizations, 
 (thus your play style) efforts , you can be aggressive and go for a conquest or domination victory, 
 you can sick back and build presenting you with two obvious victory conditions for you to reach 
 - space race and cultural victory, or you can pick a mix of the two and go for a diplomatic vote 
 which is dependant on your population so you'll need to have built up your Civ and spread out to 
 have sufficient votes which requires some aggression and building. So far so good , it is as it 
 was in the previous Civ games.
  
  And it gets a little better aswell with Civ IV, the developers have taken a bold step and introduced 
 religion in to the game, in a unbiased and fair way which can actually have a impact on the game. 
 You can create a religion by being the first to research a necessary tech such as say theology 
 for Christianity, now the benefits of founding a civilization first are that when you research 
 the necessary tech (this case theology) you create christianity and one of you're cities becomes 
 Christian and also a 'holy city' which means you can build a religion specific structure which 
 is pretty much like a national wonder (smaller scale wonders which any civ can build even if they 
 have already been built by another civ ,unlike World wonders) not only that, for every city that 
 turns to your religion you gain 1 extra gold per turn and civilizations with the same religion 
 get along better wtih civilizations of the same religion.
  
  Another positive change in Civilization is the 'leaders' for each civ, you can have a slightly 
 different experience with the same Civilization because you can somtimes be rpesented with a few 
 choices, for example with England you can pick Elizabeth or Victoria who have different traits 
 (triats were in the previous civ III militaristic, scientific etc but theyve been altered somewhat 
 in Civ IV) and will affect your civilization.
  
  Another positive for Civ IV, is that there are many many options you can choose from when customising 
 a game, which is beneficial considering the ridiculous spawning of Barbarians to force a player 
 to expand their civ MUCH more slowly at the beginning of the game - usually by 'encouraging' a 
 player to send a few escorts with each settler.
  
  Great people is also a welcome evolution from Civ III, in Civ III you could rarely get a leader 
 to improve your military or a scientist who could increase scientific output or hurry a building, 
 its been much mroe exapnded in Civ IV, you now can guide a specific city to the production of a 
 specific great leader, these being, great engineers who can hurry buildings or help wtih some reasearch, 
 a great scientist who can hurry research or build a scientific academy which increase sceintific 
 output in a city greatly, a great profit who can build the great religion specific structure (but 
 not much else!) and a great artist who you can use to greatly increas ea cities culture, each great 
 eprson can also be used to join a city and can increase happiness, cultural output, money, production 
 etc, and if you have to worthless great people (which is rare in a game) such as in the very late 
 stages of the game when great prophets become pointless you can use both of them up to kick start 
 a golden age for your civ which results in better production and output.
  
  I also think the introduction of 'Civics' is a step forward aswell for the Civilization series 
 (interestingly the superior Alpha Centauri had a feature much like this way back before Civ III) , 
 you can pick and mix various ideals, such as youir system of governemnt, you can be repsentative 
 (republic) , democratic, hereditary rule (monarchy) , then you can choose other options such as how 
 your economy works perhaps you want to be environmentalist instead of possessing a free trade, 
 religious outlook too, maybe theocratic to prevent a rival civ spreading in your borders? free 
 religion to stimulate scientific research but have no state religion?
  Many choices and very well done, each with their own unique benefit, and also this impacts on diplomacy 
 with other Civilizations too, if they have a different religion they will be upset that you have 
 fallen sway to a different one from theres, and may even demand you convert, or if they are democractic 
 they may demand you give up your hereditary rule and switch to civics of there own.
  
  Other notable improvements to Civ, well theres even more techs in the tech tree, more wonders, 
 wonder movies, and military units have been given an update, with experience they can be promoted 
 to have various abilities, for example you might have a warrior and be given a choice, to upgrade 
 his strength by 10%, make him heal quicker, have a bonus versus melee units/archers , and you can 
 be strategic in your choices for upgrades to, because each unit only has a certain amount of upgrade 
 choices they can be given.
  
  I also though it was quite a good idea to make a limit on the number of world wonders and national 
 wonders that could be built in a city to prevent you're captial being clogged with every single 
 world wonder ala' Civ III.
  
  Theres also been a change to the way resources are managed, you need to build with your workers 
 specific style buildings to get at most resources, such as pens for animals and oil wells for well, 
 oil, and you can now create 'villages' which will eventually turn into towns , these can be useful 
 because as a city is working a tile with a village on it, it will eventually grow and produce more 
 money.
  
  The sound in the game is quite good, music is fitting, sounds are different from civ to civ and 
 you can even have custom music playing in the background by going through the options and choosing 
 a custom music folder.
  
  So far so good.
  
  Howver the most obivous change with Civ IV, is the graphics engine, its 3d! wonderful the masses 
 the say, except it looks and plays badly.
  The engine used is slow and ponderous and makes the Civ game ( a game which is slow paced but fun) 
 become quite tedius at times, it feels bloated.
  Im not really bothered it went 3D, i can still play alpha centauri and Civ III which look good, 
 i believe a 2d game ages much more nicely than a 3D game, for example, street fighter 2 versus 
 tekken , alpha centuari versus this game Civ iv, hearts of Iron 2 versus EU III, baldurs gate versus 
 morrowind etc etc (this sint to say all 3d games are inferior to 2d ones but they do get much more 
 ugly a hell of alot quicker than 2d games)
  And does it really have to be 3d? you can rotate a city and look at it from a different angle to 
 appease someone whos plays a game because of the graphics? rotate the map so you can admire a city 
 which actually looks ugly due to the games graphics?
  Im sorry but the graphics in CIV IV are bad and needlessly up the system specs.
  Not only that, 
 but it looks like ridiculous like its trying to be almost cartoon like in the animation and proportion 
 of buildings, very bright colours etc etc The graphical 'update' is only the second most worrying 
 change to the Civ series.
  
  The worse i feel ,is a continuation , this near obessesion by the developers to prevent infinite 
 city sprawling were a player would effectively win a game by bumping out settler after setttler, 
 in Civ III there was 'corruption' and distance from capital penalties, were a settler create a 
 city far away from the capital would make production incredibly slow, and after a certain amount 
 of cities, a new one would be unproductive and even cause a loss of money making it worthless, 
 the intention was good but the developers went over board.
  And now in CIV IV its much much worse, you're encouraged to only place a few cities, a Civ with 
 8 cities would be considered normal, 8 cities.
  That is a pathetic number of cities but can quite easily be the norm on large map.
  
  Next 
 point i want to look at is, culture, I think this is honestly a flawed system, in CIV iii culturual 
 flips seemed random and in although this randomness seems to have been toned down in Civ IV, it 
 still seems a strange concept, you build up a city so much so that other cities wish to join you're 
 civilization? i know its a game but it doesnt happen like that, people leave a city and emmigrate 
 for a better life.
  In CIV series they should alter culture so it creates an migration system, you should pinch populations 
 from rival cities not cause your own citizens to migrate to rival cities on the borders even though 
 the rivals cities are festering hell holes compared to you're metropolises.
  
  A few more problems with Civ, well the rampaging barbarians are annoying , naval units still feel 
 practically worthless, the ICBM/nukes are pathetic , and the UN still feels broken.
  You build the UN then elections will be called for a winner with majority vote - 2/3rds.
  Or 
 seemingly random UN votes come up which can be very detremental, for example 'free religion world 
 wide' even if you choose no you cant withrdraw from the UN so say good bye to you're theocratic 
 military bonus, 'prevent proliferation of nuclear weapons' say good bye to wanting to nuke the 
 opposition, you DONT even have a choice to withdraw from the UN with penalities, it feels broken, 
 and there are barely any voting topics that come up aswell.
  The UN was done correctly in Alpha Centauri, you could pick a topic if you were head of the UN, 
 even bribe rivals to try and vote you're way etc instead of forcing a player to give up their choice 
 of government etc.
  
  What worries me about Civ IV, is that it'll now become more focused on the 3D graphics, and other 
 worries are that alpha centauri might get a sequel one day with this horrible Civ IV graphics engine 
 and include religion and culuture and a butchered UN which just doesnt fit the alpha centauri game.
 
  
  Civ IV, I feel is a step forward for the worse, due mainly to the encouragement / forcing of you 
 to place a small number of cities, and the bloated 3D graphics which slow the game down needlessly, 
 the quite frankly broken U. N system, shoddy implementation of religion, cultural flips etc it really 
 does just make the gameplay feel ponderous. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: historywhiz4k
Rating: 9.8
Date: Mar 7, 2007 11:27 pm PT
Review:  Those who do not remember the past are condemned to repeat it. Youve probably heard of this 
 quote before. Thats why we learn history. To learn what and what not to do. Remember the chancellor 
 from Germany we all love to hate attacking Russia during the winter, and then failing because of 
 the bitter cold, and not remembering that the Napoleon Bonaparte did the same a century or so earlier? 
 How could you not remember that?
  
  History is certainly cool. But wouldnt it be better to forget the past, and repeat history? Imagine 
 the possibilities: What if Rome didnt fall down on its knees? What if Mongolia was the cultural 
 centre of the world? What if Madrid was the holy city of Islam? Well, your wish has been answered, 
 for Sid Meiers Civilization IV, the newest version in the critically-acclaimed series, is certainly 
 the game for you. And guess what? Its really, really good.
  
  Gameplay: 10/10. Telling from previous games capturing hearts of many, Civilization IV is no different. 
 To anyone new to the series, Civilization IV, just like its predecessors, is a game of rewriting 
 history, by leading one of many nationalities, from the conquering Romans, to the religious Aztecs, 
 from the industrious Indians, to the ever-so-powerful English. You start from the Stone Age, with 
 several units, and you build and expand your empire, cultivate the land, research technologies 
 to progress, develop a government, a culture and a society, along with other nations, both friends 
 and foes. All of that, in a board game style of play, like Risk. Of course, a game is pointless 
 without a goal. Along with the rewriting history game, you must achieve one of many victories, 
 from conquering all nations, owning a lot of land, having legendary culture, being head of the 
 UN, beating your opponents to space, or having the highest score by the year 2050.
  
  What makes Civilization IV stand out from the rest of the previous versions is its large overhaul 
 of not only sound and graphics, but its gameplay, as well. To Civilization fans, who remember the 
 previous versions, they will not need to deal with pollution, corruption, waste, four levels of 
 unit promotions, and a single government. Instead, they are replaced with a health system, maintenance 
 a promotion tree, and civics. Some remove the micromanagement and difficulty that previous versions 
 have had, and some offer more strategic options at your disposal. Do you wish to run your government 
 with Hereditary Rule and State Property, Police State and Free Market, or switch those two combinations 
 around? Do you wish to promote this unit to have an additional 10% strength, or an additional 25% 
 strength to only melee units? These additions are certainly welcomed changes.
  
  One of the interesting additions to the game are seven real-life religions for your nation to practice. 
 Though each one is created equal (which is a good thing) , they certainly can give you many bonuses, 
 such as culture, happiness, better diplomacy with leaders of the same religion, commerce, bonuses 
 tied with certain civics, and much more. It certainly puts a twist in the way you play the game.
 
  
  Although with so many changes to the game, it still has that just-one-more-turn feel of Civilization. 
 With a game with so much depth, and so much replayability, it is certainly a fun game. Though old 
 fans of the franchise might have to get used to the new rules, the gameplay here is top notch.
 
  
  Graphics: 9/10. Though not as polish as it couldve been, Civilization IV is, for the first time 
 in the series, in 3D. The world is wonderfully vibrant and animated, with flowing rivers, trees 
 dancing in the wind, and animated animals and battles. The leaders are the highlight of the graphics, 
 for their expressive faces and gestures. Youll see Elizabeth I of England curtsying at your presence, 
 Genghis Khan giving you a stern look, and Catherine the Great of Russia slapping you in the face. 
 As you complete victories and building wonders, you will be rewarded with stunning and awe-inspiring 
 movies, and that includes the introductory movie. However, the computers performance can slow 
 down during the later stages of the game, but overall, the graphics make the world come to life.
 
  
  Sound: 9/10. Along with the great gameplay and great graphics, is the great sound. As you zoom 
 into the world, you can hear many sounds, such as hearing the ocean waves, howling winds, and the 
 sounds of a bustling city. The game is also accompanied with an amazing soundtrack, from tribal 
 music, to Gregorian chants, from orchestral pieces by Beethoven, Bach and Mozart, to the melodic 
 African voices of the theme song. Each leader is also accompanied with their own cultural music 
 as you propose diplomacy, such as the Marines Hymn for Roosevelt, La Marseillaise for Napoleon, 
 and Rule Britannia for Queen Victoria, each piece becoming more sophisticated as they progress 
 technologically. With a wonderful collection of music and sound, Civilization IV has made my list 
 of one of the best game soundtracks.
  
  Value: 10/10. This game is certainly worth the buy, whether you are a newcomer or a longtime fan, 
 this game is perfect for lovers of history, lovers of chess or board games like Risk, or people 
 who wish to cream their opponents by a huge military, and a gigantic nuke to blow them all to smitherines. 
 Replayability is high, and it excels in almost everything I love in a video game. Great gameplay, 
 great sound, great graphics, and the fact that it is fun. Recomendability is very, very high. Note 
 that is can be extremely addictive.
  
  Tilt: 10/10. Self-explanatory. Hands down, no doubt, a great game.
  
  Conclusion: Civilization 
 IV is the best version in the series to date. There are many changes to the game, which makes it 
 seem more different, but its still sticks to the same principle of being a fun and addictive game. 
 In conlcusion, the game is a keeper. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: foxtrot89
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 2, 2007 2:17 pm PT
Review:  I generally try to avoid playing the Civilization series. It isn't that the games aren't good, 
 it's just they're so damn addictive and since no game is ever the same as the last, you're incredibly 
 willing to keep playing for just one more turn, which ends up being about thirty turns, or sixty 
 turns, or ninety turns, and by then, your paper's due or you've stayed up too late and you're going 
 to be exhausted the next day. It's just one of those rare games that is incredibly accessible to 
 newcomers, but can never really be mastered by veterans. The latest addition into the series, Civilization 
 IV, once again proves that Sid Meier is one of the greatest game designers in our time.
  
  It's hard to review a game like this without a great knowledge of the series, and although I do 
 own Civilization III, I'm no expert. There's no storyline to Civilization IV, no grand, sweeping 
 story of love and betrayal. Instead, you choose a civilization, a leader of that civilization, 
 and then you're set on a map with the mission of complete global domination. You can go about this 
 in a variety of ways, either by going out and crushing every other nation under the power of your 
 military units, by being the first civilization to get into outer space, even by controlling a 
 certain amount of territory. This makes for a diverse experience every time you sit down and start 
 a new game.
  
  There are a whole lot of options that you can manipulate before the game begins. You can choose 
 the size of the continent, which controls how many nations you're going to be competing with. You 
 can control the speed of the game, which is incredibly helpful considering how long a single game 
 can last (I spent six hours one day playing a single map and I really hadn't made that much progress) , 
 so if you want a faster game (or even a slower one if you're mad) , you can have it. Even more importantly, 
 you can choose the type of map you're on, so if you want to have a strong Navy, then you can pick 
 a really wet map. If you don't want to have to deal with water, you can just pick a giant continent 
 that everyone shares. It's completely up to you, which makes each game feel exactly the way you 
 want it.
  
  Customization options like these really make the game feel like it was made with strategy fans 
 in mind. It isn't just some package sent for every gamer, it's a package made for you. You can 
 even create your own units if you prefer, but you'll find dozens and dozens of pre-made units spanning 
 a variety of ages. You can develop simple axemen all the way up to the most advanced modern infantry. 
 You'll move from catapults to the most advanced tanks around. Building up your forces and researching 
 the new technologies required to create them takes quite a bit of management, but everything is 
 brought to your attention automatically by the computer, and it even makes smart suggestions, which 
 will make it easier to build up your civilization.
  
  One of the biggest additions to this game is its brand-spanking-new 3D engine and the game looks 
 mighty fine. Sure, it ain't Half-Life 2 or F. E. A. R, but it looks really god, especially for this 
 type of game. You can zoom in and out, which gives you a variety of views of the world around you, 
 all of which are helpful in different circumstances. You can watch your units as they dig into 
 the ground, or you can zoom all the way out to get a complete view of the globe, which is a lot 
 like Google Earth. If you're planning on running the game on an ATI card, be advised that the game 
 ran pretty awfully on larger maps towards the end of the game when a lot of stuff was going on, 
 and I met or exceeded every system requirement. Apparently, a patch is in the works that will resolve 
 all of these problems, but I suffered absolutely no problems on smaller maps, so the game is playable 
 during the wait.
  
  One of the things I liked best about this game is the dozens and dozens of videos marking the progress 
 of your civilization. These minor inclusions mark the progress of wonders you're building in your 
 city, like Notre Dame or the Pentagon. Once you complete a building, you get to watch a fifteen 
 second video highlighting how it was created from start to finish. Another minor inclusion which 
 really added to the game was the decision to have Leonard Nimoy provide some voice work, highlighting 
 the completion of research on a new technology (which range from simple technologies like paper 
 all the way up to fusion) . He reads a quote from the time period or something significant that 
 the real-life creator wrote. This is a clever inclusion that I never would have thought about. 
 The music is also a perfect blend of music from around the world, ranging from European Classical 
 to African music. It's a very fine collection.
  
  I could go on, and on, getting into more and more specifics, but I think if you're reading this 
 review, you're probably already interested in purchasing the game, so I'll try to sum it up in 
 less. Civilization IV is an incredibly addicting, engrossing, and incredibly well-designed inclusion. 
 No stone was left unturned as the developers crafted this masterpiece and if you're a fan of the 
 previous installments of this game, you're definitely going to enjoy this latest edition. If you've 
 never played any of the series, or even a game like them, this is the perfect game to introduce 
 you to the turn-based strategy genre. Pick this one up as soon as you have the cash for it, you 
 won't be disappointed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: joelthegoblin
Rating: 9.4
Date: Mar 1, 2007 1:20 pm PT
Review:  My computer is a bit broken, but it still holds this amazing game! At first my performance was 
 slo', but it fixed up, then the world was black, {sigh!} . But even with the computer broken, I 
 can enjoy this game and give it the rating it has. When I lent it to a friend (finally) , I wanted 
 it back!, well, don't miss this game.
  
  -----tip -----
  If you are unhappy with the civilization on Civ, on world builder you can make your civilization, 
 when you save it, it's a scenario you play!!!
  
  I want this game back, more than ever, and you would too, trust me with that, WHAT! rank on PC 
 is 72, not on my list! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ACESandElGHTS
Rating: 9.7
Date: Feb 28, 2007 9:24 am PT
Review:  Just because I don't play a game nearly as much as I play Civ III, it doesn't mean it can't be 
 a superior game. Civ IV is that superior game. Most notably, the graphics improved incredibly over 
 the previous installment, to the point where it doesn't actually look like it's played on a a tabletop 
 grid. That's actually a good thing, because Civ III -- as beloved as it was -- did have a very 
 80s-90s feel to its flat surface,  display. To compliment 
 the rolling hills, frothy oceans and richly detailed military units, Civ IV allows you to zoom 
 in to notice the blood on your knight's sword or to zoom out to view your empire, then to zoom 
 out to view the known world. Excellent sound, too, is the order of the day. From a fairly excellent 
 orchestral theme at the intro, to great sound effects for weapons, building, and -- get this -- 
 for the founding of religions and religious institutions. Nice touch. If I had to reccomend one 
 game over the other, I would say Civ IV is a strong finish to the series. Combat is more easily 
 understood, units are more complex, city management is easier, and the game is entirely more pretty 
 and fun to play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MechaDragon92
Rating: 8.8
Date: Feb 24, 2007 8:18 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay: 8/10
  Many may find this game to be boring and uninteresting. For me and other like me, this is the opposite. 
 The thrill of watching everything from Stonehenge to the Space Elevator being constructed never 
 gets old to me, and the several types of different units and options keeps every game new and fresh.
 
  
  Graphics: 8/10
  This game looks nice, but that is considering I run a very high-powered graphics card. The units 
 are detailed, and the environment is diverse and good-looking. Cut-Scenes, although there are not 
 many, are nicely done and fit well into the game. The only one drawback here is that many of the 
 environments look flat with odd tall peaks jutting out here and there, and the cities themselves 
 are not too nicely done.
  
  Sound: 10/10
  Stunning. This game contains countless amounts of original and licensed music. From everything 
 to classical, to African Tribal, to even 1700's American fife and drum music.
  
  Value: 10/10
  This game contains more than 20 different civilizations, and each of them provide 
 you with a completely different experience every game you play. The wide range of difficulty settings 
 will have you playing for weeks, and if you need a break there are fun scenarios, such as WW2 North 
 African Campaign.
  
  Reviewer's final words:
  This game is everything I want as a history minor and a major strategy player. Not for everyone, 
 but just right for those like me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: garybuse
Rating: 3.4
Date: Feb 19, 2007 6:07 pm PT
Review:  But I just do not understand why everyone loves this game. I really did do the work required to 
 understand and love a game as complex as this one. I read a lot of posts about the game, about 
 different ways to do this and that. I really wanted to love you Civ 4, but all you gave me was 
 boredom.
  
  Here is what this game is to me: I get my first city going, get a worker, set him to auto fix things, 
 then all I really do is just click the tech build (often clicking what the computer suggested but 
 not always) . More workers are built, and then I just click tech after tech. There is never any 
 suspense, not drama. There is never any question that if I just play the game long enough I will 
 win. Maybe you have to play on hard levels to ever be challenged? The reason that I am not gonna 
 play it anymore (back to Company of Heroes time) is that there never seems to be a punishment for 
 bad decisions. Pick any tech you want. Don't worry about missing anything, just pick that one later. 
 Click, click, click. An combat is just a drag. Trying to move multiple enemies around the board 
 is painful, you are always trying to click multiple together but they never want to behave. I realize 
 this is an RTS but far away from Starcraft-type gameplay. Fine. But, whatever it is, it's really 
 boring!
  
  Really, if someone out there can answer this post and let me know what I am missing. I would be 
 so grateful.
  
  In fact, maybe I should go get that large Starcraft War Chest thing. It's been a few years. I'm 
 sure it would be a thousand times more enjoyable that this boring-a$$ Civ 4. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: killerno1
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 16, 2007 9:09 am PT
Review:  This is the only game I will ever give 10 pts on total. It doesn't mean that there is no possibility 
 for improvement, but it means this is the best ever made. We all waited for a game like this. After 
 Civilization 3, especially the expansion Conquests , I believed Sid Miers won't be able to really 
 enhance the game play. But I am happy to say that I was wrong. Sid Miers really did it!!!!!!.
 
  
  What else anyone needs in a Strategic Game? Civilization IV needs you to consider almost every 
 aspect a Warlord would be facing, improving the concepts from Civilization 3, while maintaining 
 the good sides, but removing the boring and difficult to handle concept from the game like Corruption 
 and Pollution. Well, to make the game still close to real life, the introduced some new concepts. 
 Some of them are so attracting that I am surprised whether anyone would ever be able to play game 
 without those. For example, the concept of Religion is a must for a game like Civilization. They 
 managed it so well, no one would have any comment on that, as they haven't given any priority to 
 any religion at all. New Health system is also increasing the game play, as this is what I believe 
 any one would have been looking forward too. Now for any one who haven't played any Civilization 
 Game before, I must say that this game is not a short game like Age of Empires, The Lord of The 
 Rings, etc. Well, you can play some special scenarios but the true depth of the game is to maintain 
 every aspect, not just the war. You can even win the game without declaring war to any one in entire 
 6000 years of game play (more than hundred Turns) . The game is played in turns, which makes you 
 able to control every thing without getting confused what have you got or what have you forgot. 
 For those who haven't played this game but have played Civilization III or earlier games, there 
 is every thing you have been worried about. Now cities are difficult to be made and maintain. YOU 
 DON'T HOLD 120 CITIES NOW TO WIN THE GAME. If you just build about 7 to 10 cities and maintain 
 them well, you can win the game. Now You only fight for the real reasons.
  . If you are missing a resource.
  . If you are looking for a strategic point.
  . or for religion.
 
  
  There can be some other reasons as well, depend on the game, but it's no more like just killing 
 and killing for 6000 years just to win the game. Try this if you haven't or you will be sorry to 
 waste so much time without having CIVILIZATION IV in your life.
  
  The only bad side about Civilization Game is that it's Highly Addictive. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tentpole
Rating: 9.2
Date: Feb 15, 2007 4:19 pm PT
Review:  I remember checking up on this game before it was released. Screen shots, videos, previews, news, 
 forums, etc. I was very excited to pick up this game the day it came out. There was alot of hype 
 surrounding this game and many people said don't believe the hype and they still say it now till 
 this point. This is a masterpiece of a game that is highly addictive and will give you less sleep 
 at night.
  
  Let's start with the gameplay. The gameplay of Civilization IV is simply put, flawless. People 
 have complained about bugs and random crashes and I have yet to experience any of it. YOU are in 
 control of an entire nation and it's cities and it's people all depend on you to make the right 
 decisions to reign over a successful empire. This is one of the few turned based strategy games 
 where you have complete control over every aspect of the game and that's what makes this game truly 
 immersive. There is always something to do in this game as it expands to new lands and as your 
 nation evolves through the ages whether it be researching new technology, taking over enemy territory, 
 building new monuments in your cities, or the other hundreds of other things to do while ruling 
 over your civilization. I can't say enough of how fun this game is in general but you can probably 
 get an idea by all the other positive reviews.
  
  Graphics. I'm not going to lie, when I got this game I was pretty surprised at the rather weak 
 graphics at the highest video settings. But if your gameplay is that great, it weighs deeply heavily 
 over the graphics of this game. In the game you can use your scroll buttom to zoom in or out of 
 your screen. The more you zoom in, the more you can see the little details of your city , people, 
 and surroundings that you wouldn't normally see on the normal zoom settings. Additionally, the 
 music also stops playing when you zoom in the closest so you can hear the little sound details 
 of your civilization. If you choose to zoom out, you can practically see your entire nation all 
 in one peice and it really is quite astonishing.
  
  The audio and music in this game is one experience like non other. There are tons and tons of beautiful 
 music played throughout different situations and times during the game and you never get bored 
 of it. I can't say enough about it, the music is just astonishing and is an experience you normally 
 wouldn't hear in any other turned based or real time strategy game out.
  
  One thing you'll never have to worry about this game is it's replay value. There are so many things 
 you can do, that you will come back to this game everytime. It is very fun and so far I haven't 
 gotten tired of it. And at this pace, it doesn't look like I will for quite awhile.
  
  Overall, if you were to get just ONE game this year, Civilization IV has to be it. It covers just 
 about every aspect of building a civilization and keeping it civilized for many generations. This 
 is without a doubt, the greatest turn based strategy game I've ever encountered and is easily the 
 best in the series. The only game that I can see that will top this is Civilization V. Firaxis 
 and 2K Games have certainly outdone themselves again with this masterpiece. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jas0n3x
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 9, 2007 7:01 am PT
Review:  Civilization IV delivers probably the closest feeling to building a nation of any of the Civ titles. 
 The player isnt limited in the number of cities he builds, but there are drawbacks to trying to 
 spam the map. Each extra city costs more and more upkeep  and of course player attention. In a 
 typical game, even on a Huge map, a civilization typically weighs in at a dozen cities in size 
 and its quite possible to win with as little as five or six, should you go for a cultural victory. 
 So it's a perfect 10 points game ... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: swimfancatman
Rating: 9.6
Date: Feb 4, 2007 4:16 pm PT
Review:  I bought Civ III a couple years back, and hated it. I picked it back up about a month ago and couldn't 
 put it down. When I got on Gamespot and saw that there was a Civ IV I drove to Best Buy and bought 
 it that day. Right out of the box the game is amazing. I started a game at about 6pm and didn't 
 finish it until 3am and I never got bored! The graphics are really good and add a lot to the game. 
 Being able to zoom in and out on the map is pretty sweet. The gameplay is near flawless! You'll 
 never be bored playing this game if you like strategy games.
  
  The music in the game is great to listen to. Usually I play my own music while I play games, but 
 that would ruin the game! The music changes with the era you are in adding to the fun. If you liked 
 any of the Civ games, or strategy games in general, buy this game. It really is amazing! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ozoch
Rating: 9.8
Date: Feb 4, 2007 2:52 pm PT
Review:  Some Civilization veterans will immediately pass this off as hype just because of the switch to 
 a 3D game engine, becoming nigh offensive and ignoring the true meat of this masterpiece, claiming 
 the past games in the series are superior without so much as a taste. Whether ignorant to change 
 or a victim of nostalgia, there's one real truth; This game is the best Civilization yet. A bold 
 claim sure, but I've played and enjoyed the hell out of the past games in the series and none have 
 raised themselves as high as this installment. Gameplay: The gameplay of the last Civilizations 
 was far and out excellent in every way, an achievement that made the series so popular and great. 
 It started simple with Civ I, refined and expanded with Civ II, and tinkered and experimented with 
 in Civ III. In Civ IV everything has come to a climax of sorts, being so brilliant and streamlined, 
 yet feeling like Civ and being amazingly enjoyable. With a mix of simplicity and optional depth 
 new players are very easily drawn in, much more so than the past games. Most things can be automatically 
 managed now (some things could be in Civ III, just not to this level) , leaving the player to concentrate 
 on more important things and not being overwhelmed. There's still a few holes in it, end games 
 (as the Gamespot review said) can slow down a bit and be a bit much to handle.
  
  Graphics: One of the more obvious things are the graphics of Civ IV. They're colorful and original, 
 stylish even, art-wise. The 3D engine makes the game all the more attractive, with terrains actually 
 looking quite different and the world a whole lot more varied (II and III were a bit consistent 
 and bland terrain wise) , not to mention clever and possibly charming design. It sure as hell isn't 
 top notch but it does plenty.
  
  Sound: The game sounds in Civ IV are standard fare, nothing extremely notable, great voice acting 
 from units and technology read-offs. Where it all really shines is the music, from the breathtaking 
 opening menu track (almost tear-inducing from the beauty of it) to the unique nation anthems, and 
 music through the ages, the soundtrack of Civ IV is without a doubt my favorite of any game I've 
 played.
  
  Lasting Value: There isn't much to say about this, other than it lives up to the almost digital 
 crack like status it is tagged with. I've had my sleeping schedule butchered many a time because 
 of this game. But sleep is as waste of time compared to a good game of Civilization. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: uberjannie
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 1, 2007 5:03 am PT
Review:  Sid meier strikes the heavy duty TBS kings, thats right, the previous Civilization games.
  There was no game on the Turn Based Strategy who could compare themselves to Civilization 3, and 
 the civfanatics didnt believe that Sid Meier and his crew could muster up a better sequel than 
 Civilization 3. But he did.
  
  Sid meier strikes the heavy duty TBS kings, thats right, the previous Civilization games.
  There 
 was no game on the Turn Based Strategy who could compare themselves to Civilization 3, and the 
 civfanatics didnt believe that Sid Meier and his crew could muster up a better sequel than Civilization 
 3.
  
  In civilization 4 you have tons of new stuff to dive youre in to get your hands dirty.
  The 
 new border system works great and its easier than ever to know where your borders are.
  
  Well, the first thing youll notice is the new engine, for the first time a Civilization game is 
 made 3D.
  You can actually zoom out and watch the earth as a planet far away (not that far, but from our 
 moons perspective far) .
  The delight when I started Civ4 is the new lion king like theme song, which made a tear roll down 
 my face.
  
  Civ4 is all about thinking ahead of the game, think of it as a huge advanced chess game, only not 
 that complicated as it sounds like. You choose a nation of you choosing and each nation has different 
 nation boosts.
  Like some nations have boost to Industry and culture, this all change how you wish to play the 
 game. Do you want to conquer the world or do you want to negotiate and solve matters as silent 
 as possible and win by space race or score. All the options are there.
  
  There are several victory conditions you can choose from conquest, time, space race, domination 
 and cultural which is the basic ones. You can have one victory condition if you like or you can 
 have everyone except conquest enabled.
  
  There are things that I miss however; they were supposed to bring back the throne room. The throne 
 room was a concept of when the people liked you, you could improve a part of your palace. Like 
 your chair, floor etc. They didnt have time to put it in there, so we have to survive without 
 it.
  
  Playing in multiplayer you can set teams and the most frustrating thing is that I play on teams 
 with some friends, its an alliance which cannot be broken and research is shared in the team. 
 The one thing that annoys me however is that your borders will push each other, which is kind of 
 ridiculous since you are on a team not some alliance which can be broken.
  
  +more civ
  +deeper gameplay
  +3D engine which works totally fine
  
  -Multiplayer team issues
  -No 
 palace or throne room
  
  I give the game 9.5 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sombody5000
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jan 30, 2007 8:04 pm PT
Review:  If you have the time Civ. IV is a highly addicting game. While it may take you a while to get used 
 to the system, the game offers many difficulty modes to help ease you in. You build your civilization 
 from the stone age to the modern age and watch as your people advance and become a world power. 
 The game has many ways to achieve victory and you can choose which one you will try to attempt. 
 There is no story to this game so if you're the type who prefers a story, don't bother with this 
 game. The combat is a little strange especially when it comes to sea and air units but it is satisfying 
 to take over another nation by force. The AI difficulty is appropriate for each setting. You should 
 definitely get this game even if you are not a turn based strategy game fan. Warning: If you are 
 a student who is planing to get this game, you will often get into a situation like the following: 
 It's one o'clock in the morning. You haven't done an ounce of homework, but you still keep on playing 
 because you just got your first Modern Armor. You will lose a lot of sleep over this game but it's 
 worth it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jayman612
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jan 30, 2007 4:42 pm PT
Review:  The game is a great example of what a turn based strategy game should be. It is involved and keeps 
 your attention for hours. The combat system is well-planned and fair. There are diplomatic comonents 
 as well but focuses on military. It has amazing replayability giving you a different experience 
 every time. The game is not difficult to learn and there are many difficulty settings to include 
 all skill levels. I recommend this game to anyone who likes strategy games and is willing to dedicate 
 hours of gameplay because that is what this game does. Keeps you immersed wanting more and more. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: smadiso1
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jan 30, 2007 9:18 am PT
Review:  (Review based off of most recent patch, v1.60, without expansion add-on)
  
  This is yet another long series of games that I'm a newcomer to. And while I have played several 
 strategy (most turn based) games, Civilization 4 stands clearly above them all. Gameplay: 10
  The game stresses the balancing of many true to life aspects. Combat, defense, population growth, 
 pleasing the masses, diplomacy are just a few of the many aspects you can control. Micromanaging 
 all of them can be difficult, and sometimes aggrevating. Thankfully the computer AI does a great 
 job of controlling many aspects of the game that you choose not to control. This leaves you free 
 to focus more on the parts that the computer doesn't have much control over: combat and expansion. 
 The combat system is more like an RPG battle system. You try to work the system to take advantage 
 of your opponents weaknesses while the computer calculates all of the battle percentages to determine 
 the outcome. While the actual battle itself is very simple, the game does stress using strategy 
 for proper unit placement and even which unit to use. Overall, every bit of this game requires 
 careful planning and astute thinking. So if you don't like to plan ahead or think to deeply on 
 strategy, you may want to pass this one up.
  Graphics: 8
  The only reason the graphics were rated lower was because the characters on the world map just 
 didn't look right. Vehicles, cities, and especially the terrain all look great, but the people 
 just don't look right to me for some reason.
  Sound: 10
  The music fits well with each country and technical period. Voice acting on the units is done well, 
 though it does get repitious after a few hours. Leonard Nemoy is definitely a great bonus to game 
 as he delivers one line comments on your tech achievements. The game probably would have done just 
 as well without it, but still it adds a little bit of class that only Spock could bring.
  Value: 10
  I've found it difficult to find good quality pc games as of late. Either the gameplay 
 is downtrodden by flashy graphics or just poor mechanics. Or the game plays out too quickly leaving 
 little to no replay value. The shear number of options that is built into the game makes replay 
 value quite high. The programmers have managed to fill the game with so many great options that 
 it would take several gaming sessions just to discover them all. Tilt: 10
  What really sells a game to me is it's modding capacity. Nothing brings a game to life more than 
 one deisigned specifically to be changed by it's players. Add in a thriving community of such fans 
 that produce high quality mods and you have a game that has near limitless potential. This game 
 just happens to have all this, in addition to an already released (and patched) expansion pack. 
 When you finally do grow tired of this game just look around for something to change it's mechanics 
 and the magic starts all over again.
  Overall: 9.7
  What really sets this game apart from the rest is it's addictive gameplay. Many new releases offer 
 great graphics but the gameplay and replay has been questionable in nearly all of them. There are 
 so many options to play here as is and the modding aspect just increases it even further. It will 
 make you lose sleep and keep you coming back for more just to see how the game will playout after 
 each turn. So setup some time off from work, send the kids off to the grandparents, brew a vat 
 of coffee and kiss your spouse goodbye since your life will be revolving around your computer for 
 the next month at least!
  Happy gaming all. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: drew6698
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jan 26, 2007 11:59 am PT
Review:  I have owned Civ I through Civ IV and have never been let down, played them for countless hours, 
 always been impressed with the advancement of the game since the previous edition without taking 
 any backwards steps. BY FAR the most in-depth strategy game for those of us that are detail and 
 control freaks, love the complex interactions between planning your expansion, relationships, trade, 
 economics, research, wonders, production, military, politics, religion, etc. They spent time making 
 all of these aspects important and very well done, not just throwing them into the game. I always 
 play the longest game with the most opponents, and only with military victory enabled. There's 
 nothing better than spending so much time and effort to plan for a long time down the road and 
 then having it all go exacly as you had planned, finally completely dominating the world with nothing 
 anybody can do about it. It sure makes me feel GOOD! (I sound like a sick man, huh? Do you think 
 I'd make a good world leader?) There is always room for improvement in any game and there are no 
 shortages of recommendations for this franchise, but what other turn-based strategy game has as 
 many on-line communities and websites offering modification, scenarios, units, gameplay suggestions, 
 forums, etc. ? Compared to all of the next-gen games on PCs and consoles, this game doesn't have 
 much to offer graphically to compete for our video game dollars. Don't get me wrong, it looks decent, 
 but the beauty of this game and a testament to the loyalty of the majority of people that have 
 played it is in the fact that it ALWAYS sells wonderfully - not because of flashiness but rather 
 pure intellectual stimulation! It never, ever gets old! My favorite games of all time! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: burningsword000
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jan 25, 2007 7:54 pm PT
Review:  CIv 3 was great and Civ 4 is even better. The gameplay is amazing and very complex, once you get 
 the hang of it, you'll be addicted. Endless possibilities and strategies that you can use, you 
 will never have the same map, or even a similar one. Graphically, the game is great, even on a 
 PC that's 3 years old (like mine) . The sound is good apart from the fact that I don't like the 
 kind of music that's in the game. The value of the game is INSANE, hours upon hours of single player 
 games, great online multiplayer, and endless modding when or if you run out of replay value (which 
 you probably won't) . You might find you don't have quite enough time for it but overall, a great 
 game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Link9876
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jan 23, 2007 6:26 pm PT
Review:  Civilizations 4 is a wonderful game. It lets you go back 6,000 years ago and redo history. You 
 choose a civilization and a leader and take you civ through the stone age, the rennaissance, the 
 midevil ages, the industrial era, and even the future. All while going through wars, discovering 
 new technologies and building improvements for you thriving cities. There are limitless possibilities. 
 You can choose to be a warring country and win by conquering all your other comrads, or be a scientifically 
 advanced country and be the first to go into space. There are a total of 86 technologies to learn, 
 as well as many world and national wonders, great people, civics, and even energy and food resources 
 that will help your cities grow and advance through time. This is a great history/turn based game. 
 After you play this game, you'll get up from your desk and relize that 4 hours have gone by because 
 it is so addicting. You will learn things about history from this game. Its a must have for PC 
 owners, which is all of you!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ressai
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jan 20, 2007 5:46 pm PT
Review:  Civi 4 really does go above and beyond what I thought this game would be like. After seeing the 
 trailer, I was skeptical about how the games new combat would effect the game. But it turns out 
 thats it's well animated and kinda fun to watch. For those who have'nt played a Civ game, this 
 one should be a good pick-up-and-play. Within an hour or so, you could have a pretty good idea 
 of tactics and warfare along with growing your Civ into the mightiest it can be. Also, the Civ's 
 are pretty well even on their strength and weaknesses, it's not all one sided like Civ 3, making 
 it more fun to play around and try other Civ's out. In the end, this new addition to the Civ family 
 is a great buy and it will keep you playing for hours on end... So don't expect to be doing anything 
 social for a good while!
  
  Conquer on gamers,
  Ressai 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jade_Monkey
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jan 18, 2007 9:38 pm PT
Review:  Presentation: The packaging to Civilization 4 is very nicely done, especially the front box art. 
 The manual could of been better. It doesn't give a lot of info on the game itself. It more of gives 
 the basics like how to save. On the other hand there is a huge tech tree supplied that give tons 
 of info on what symbols mean, what upgrades give you what and more. The menu layout straightforward 
 and easy. The video options are fairly simple to follow and there is a decent amount of possabilities 
 available to make the game look good or bad depending on your needs and wants. Graphics: Overall 
 Civilization 4 is a pretty good looking game for an RTS. Explosions are done well, and units have 
 a fair amount of detail. If your tank is damaged after a fight you can see it easily. I ran the 
 game maxed out at 1680*1050 with AA on max and I had virtually no framerate issues. There was a 
 little hicup here and there when ending turns, but it was bairly noticable. The water and land 
 looks good. You can see waves in the water, and marine life swimming around. Animations are good 
 for the most part. Tanks seem like they jump a foot in the air when shooting, but it's not a horrible 
 thing. Sound: I will never tire of Leonard Nimoy's voice in this game. He voices the quotes you 
 get after researching a tech, and the quotes are awesome. I actually learn things while playing 
 this game. Vehicles seem to sound like they should, and the background music is a very soothing 
 tune. It relaxes me like very few things do. Gameplay: Civilization 4 has one thing that very few 
 RTS games I play have had, an alternative to war. It is possible in Civilization 4 to go the entire 
 game without going to war once, diplomacy can prevail. There is a lot of stuff to research and 
 many units to pick. There is also a helathy selection of countries and leaders, all with strengths 
 and weaknesses. For 99% of this game I have unbelievable fun, but when I see some guy with an axe 
 blow up my tank, I gotta take a point off for that. That is one of the few things though, this 
 is still an aweosme game. I love having the UN formed and the AI and me voting on different things 
 such as banning nukes among others. I wish the bombing and nuke systems worked betetr, but it's 
 not too bad. It's just that sometimes they won't bomb or nuke the square I want to, with no explanation 
 why. I also wish that by upping the difficulty the AI did something other than become war craving 
 lunatics. I would like to see them get smarter, not get blood lust. At the hardest difficulty I 
 get attacked with a full army within 30 minutes. Lasting Appeal: Sing; e player holds a lot here, 
 I still play it over multiplayer. The multiplayer is actually pretty good though, and adds a lot 
 of value here. There is also a ranking system that adds your score to the hall of fame if you do 
 that well. I will be playing this one for a long while in the future. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hitmandes
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jan 18, 2007 8:32 am PT
Review:  Great game, with couple of signifiance improvement from civilization 3. The most outstanding of 
 which must be the improved graphic and multiplayability. As far as game play, many problems that 
 were faced by player especially during later ages, like pollution and corruption due to distance 
 from captial have been solved or been given avenue to reduce there impact, making later game play 
 much more enjoyable. For the new player, the tutorials provide a very good introduction and guide 
 to understand the game play the various controls and option are so far rather user friendly to 
 get a hang of. A bit on the draw back, although there are programs to do some game editing, but 
 the editor program is not as user friendly as the game itself, not even a far cry from it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Whermacht02
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jan 9, 2007 1:38 pm PT
Review:  Civilization 4 carries on with the excellent turn based strategy concept which Sid Meier made us 
 love. This new installment comes with several new twists. The most noticeable are the government 
 and combat system. The governement system abadons the predetermined type of government (such as 
 democracy, republic) and instead adopts several civics in regards with different aspects of your 
 civ. Each of this civics will have a different efect on every aspect of the game: from the units 
 getting additional experience points when they are created to prevent the spread of other religion 
 on your territory. The combat system suffered a big overhaul. Now, the units only have a health 
 (or strength) meter, opposite to the attack/defense/health meter of Civ 3. This takes into account 
 the total strength of the unit when coming to combat: an archer with 2 points of strength will 
 be at disadvantage to another archer with more thatn 2 points of strength. Personally, I miss the 
 old system. But the new one does its job pretty well.
  All in all, Civ 4 raises the bar a little bit with new tweaks and gameplay mechanics that I feel 
 are very welcome. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ajst07
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 7, 2007 2:14 pm PT
Review:  Civilization 4 doesn't look like too much on the outside, but for any gamer who dares step on the 
 inside, I give a warning to because this game is hard to get rid of. After you get a hold of the 
 gameplay and realize what the game is all about (not just killing people) you won't even notice 
 the hours that slip away. I do not reccomend this game to people who want to be instantly gratified. 
 In Civilization it takes time to build up and progress through time before you feel truly accomplished. 
 You will have to start out with a mere settler and a half naked warrior and eventually build your 
 own empire to enormous sizes. On the way, however, you will meet new people, discover new lands 
 and resources, and also learn new sciences that will open up doors to whole new expieriences. You, 
 the leader of an empire will have to play politics with some nations, war with others, while slowly 
 inching your way to victory. The gameplay is always different every time you play, so don't expect 
 Gandhi to be so nice the second time around! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: porphyrous
Rating: 9.6
Date: Dec 25, 2006 8:53 am PT
Review:  Another five years, another edition of Civilization. As a player since the original DOS version 
 in 1990, I've logged months in this series. What is my impression of this edition?
  
  Simply put, as a turn-based strategy game, it's nearly perfect. The skill levels are very broad. 
 You can either dominate this game in 90 minutes or be dead within five. It's incredibly deep, but 
 the automation and advice the game can give you lets you micromanage it as badly as you want, or 
 almost lets it run itself with all the automation options available.
  
  The aspect of culture has been greatly developed, as has the role of religion in the game. This 
 aspect deserves additional kudos, as some of Sid Meier's games in the past have handled religion 
 in a rather ham-fisted fashion (anyone remember the semi-dense harpy of a leader Marion from Alpha 
 Centauri?) Thanks, Sid, for not making religious equal stupid . It is also, sadly, quite accurate 
 in one aspect, that where diplomatic relations between nations are greatly enhanced by being the 
 same religion.
  
  I've never been a big fan of military conquest, so the alternate victory conditions are a godsend. 
 You can win by the traditional launching and arrival at Alpha Centauri, or you can win by maxxing 
 out the culture of 3 cities before anyone else, or you can simply overwhelm the planet with your 
 progeny. There are so many ways to win, although having a rival civ wipe the floor with you tends 
 to be the most common way to lose still.
  
  The graphics are excellent. I stop short of stunning , because there are a few things that could 
 easily have been done better. Aside from city names on the map, the text face used in the game 
 is clumsy and sometimes, such as when superimposed on the image of a wonder at the end of its movie, 
 unreadable.
  
  The city management screen took some getting used to. Some of it does not behave the way you would 
 expect and it takes some pokes and prods. I don't care for the icon-based project selector, where 
 I end up having to briefly hover over each one to see if it's the one I want. Sometimes a dropdown 
 menu or listbox is simply the best option.
  
  The world map takes an interesting angle on things, literally. When zoomed in close, you get a 
 3D view of things, sometimes in alarming detail. As you zoom out, the map flattens into 2D in a 
 fashion very reminiscent of the original Civilization (or, for the Linux-curious, a bit like FreeCiv) . 
 A couple of interface choices can slow you down though. For example, the readout at lower left 
 of the traits of the terrain track your mouse pointer, not the active unit. The technology tree 
 flows naturally and makes sense, and there are a lot of techs to discover. There is much greater 
 granularity, and it is less likely that a single tech will make or break your game. Similarly, 
 the wonders are less powerful than before, which prevents rival civs from running away with the 
 game. The flip side is it also keeps you from running away with things as well. The game is much 
 better balanced in this aspect.
  
  In spite of its very minor flaws, Civilization IV is still the most playable version of the game 
 to date, and that's high praise considering where it came from.
  
  David V 
::::::

::::::
UserName: woef
Rating: 7.6
Date: Dec 16, 2006 11:21 am PT
Review:  Civ.4 an extremely anticipated game, which offers a whole bunch of gameplay.
  I never liked turn-based strategy games, because you have to think and i hate thinking at a game.
 
  
  Gameplay:
  +Offers plenty of gameplay, both mulitplayer and singleplayer.
  +Different map settings options
  +Easy but long tutorial
  -Only enyoyable for people who love 
 turn-based RTS or people that like thinking and make decisions
  -Takes a few hours, before you get to know the gameplay
  
  Sounds:
  +Nice intro music
  
 +and music overall
  +/- No real character sounds and gameplay sounds
  
  Graphics:
  +Looks great
  +Plays great
  
  Value:
  +Value is amazing
  +Multiplayer is solid
  -Takes 
 a lot of time to actually win a game
  
  Tilt:
  +Good presentaion, with good use of sounds and cutscenes
  +Good tutorial (long though)
  
 
  If you love RTS turn-based i say buy this game, if you dont like them i would say dont buy this 
 game
  Cya all and have fun playing this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: speedy1975
Rating: 9.6
Date: Dec 15, 2006 1:43 pm PT
Review:  For anyone considering this game and its expansion pack, Warlords, the game is an instant classic. 
 Don't hesitate to spend the money on this game. It offers hundreds of hours of addictive, turn 
 based strategy goodness. It is presented in a super slick 3D environment that actually lets you 
 zoom out to the point the map can be displayed in top down 2D! Or you can fly through the entire 
 map in excellent 3D. The menus are minimal, customizable, and elegant. The music is splendid and 
 changes depending what time period you are in. The map editor has changed considerably since civilization 
 III. But it has its high points. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: teodriel
Rating: 8.2
Date: Dec 14, 2006 10:38 am PT
Review:  I was expecting nothing about this game when I first saw it. I've never liked the Civ Saga, but 
 leaving the prejudgments behind, this is a marvelous game, that will keep busy any gamer...
  
  Is awesome the way that this game, without any hyper special efects and tremendous fights, 
 manage too be an incredible experience.
  The deal here is simple, you play as han emperor, and make your country grow bigger and bigger, 
 gathering getting a economical system, army, religion and all that stuff... Seems not so fun, but 
 it is...
  The greatest thing about this game is how addictive it is. You will play it for years without get 
 bored, and if you play in the hardest difficulty you will have a hard time to get the control over 
 the world...
  
  The Good: Some of the best Strategy game around, lots of content to play, you really feel that 
 you are part of a entire world in struggle. Great sound, in the musical score and efects. Eternal 
 lasting value, it gets never old the city management. Graphics that do the job perfectly, in a 
 artistically and technical standpoint.
  
  The Bad: The fights are kind of puzzle one turn thing... The maps should be bigger.
  
  Gameplay: 
 Easy to get and Depth interface makes the game really easy to play. Try to get the best country 
 is Fun and exciting. Graphics: Do the job. Nothing to be so amazed, but there are simple and effective.
 
  
  Sound: Perfect soundtrack is worth to have it in CD, it fills perfectly the game pace. Very good 
 sound efects. Value: As I've said before, you will play this game forever. It never ends or gets 
 old. When you get pass the first levels and maps, you should check the hardest dificulty setting 
 and the bigger maps. Those are the real game Blast...
  
  Tilt: Above all, this game really surprised me, I was hoping for a boredom piece of crap, and I 
 end getting this marvelous game... If you like strategy game, or want some History Tea, you should 
 check this game out... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MichaelSoft
Rating: 9.6
Date: Apr 2, 2007 3:17 pm PT
Review:  Civilization IV is a ressuretion of a long famed stradegy title that have addicted many gamers 
 around the world. Though this game is not for the pinicky or the trigger happy, it is an essential 
 game for gamers who even mildly like the idea of stradegy or controlling a vast empire from the 
 beggining of time. Wether you like it or not, Civilization IV has impacted every RTS title to date, 
 and have been hailed by fans around the globe.
  Although the Civilization series is strife for fame by many stradegy fans, the real question is, 
 will this new entry please you? Or is it worse then the previous titles?
  
  It matters from your point of view, if you liked the first and original Civilization title, then 
 this one would be grand in your collection of acclaimed stradegy games, but on the other hand, 
 the first Civilization title wasn't the best. The critically acclaimed Civilization II is much 
 like this new entry in many ways, and Civilization IV just expands upon that with slick 3d graphics 
 and notched up gameplay, but if you prefer the recent Civilization III game, it may be best to 
 think awhile on this case. Civilization IV will appeal more to fans of Civilization II, but if 
 you're a long time fan, even if you don't prefer II over III, this game will still be worth picking 
 up.
  
  Now to the game affairs, the slick 3d graphics is a much needed improvement, though laggy on some 
 graphic cards. The gameplay is just as strategic, but fitted to a more feel as of Civilization 
 II. The nations are expanded and offer many different variaty and gameplay. Each nation provides 
 a different stradegy and approach, and each one feels fully unique. The maps are thoughtful, and 
 the AI is second to none, just crossing the line of AI perfection. Multiplayer is extremely fun 
 and addictive, though matches could last for quite some time. The only real letdown is the generic 
 music, but even that can be overcomed by iTunes.
  
  This game is best for the Civilization II fans, but nevertheless if you prefer Civilization III, 
 this game is still worth picking up and playing for years. All hail Civilization IV! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kca89
Rating: 9.3
Date: Dec 11, 2006 4:00 pm PT
Review:  Civilization 4 is an amazing game and the best in the Civilization series to date! Take control 
 of a civilization of your choice and control your own destiny.
  
  The graphics associated with this game are amazing. The game play is in depth and before you know 
 it you will have played for hours. The sounds and especially the soundtrack with the game are great. 
 I decided to save the main theme song from the game to my Winamp play list. The only thing in my 
 opinion that has a downside in this game is the multiplayer. It doesn't seem to play smoothly and 
 for a game that can take hours or days alone to beat, it seems to just take too long. However, 
 Civilization single player mode is what this game is about and it definitely lives up to the hype. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cloudchaser1
Rating: 8.8
Date: Dec 11, 2006 9:50 am PT
Review:  Long story short, we settled on getting Civilization IV. It turned out to be one of the better 
 game I've bought in a while. This is my first review, so I'll try to keep things structured.
  
  Gameplay: Its turn-based, which is a nice change of pace from games like Warcraft 3. Theres 
 no need to make split second decisions, so you can analyze stats and probabilities and whatnot, 
 if thats what you like. And theres a lot of things to take into account, which can be pretty overwhelming 
 at first. What cities should specialize in what (research, production, culture, etc) ? What leader 
 should you choose? Each leader (an actual, factual, historical icon) has their own personality 
 and unique unit. Randomly generated maps, with you choosing the general map type, means the games 
 always somewhat different. And though its a turn-based game, you can select the game speed, and 
 even the era of time you start off in. Theres plenty of difficulty settings, but I'll admit that 
 even for a while playing on the easiest was still pretty challenging. Once you get the idea of 
 how to play though you'll be moving up the difficulty settings.
  
  Graphics: This isn't really the kind of game you get to drool over the graphics. Don't get me wrong, 
 they're good, but there just arn't many instances where they show up. The landscapes always look 
 good. And the historical personas look great, changing their expressions to fit their mood with 
 you. I'd say the one thing that hasn't gotten old to me is when you drop an A-bomb.
  
  Sound: Good, as you progress through the years the music changes to fit the era. It took me a while 
 to realize, but it starts pretty early with people clapping. All the leaders have their own little 
 personalized tunes when you talk with them. And in single player games you have Leonard Nimoy (Spock) 
 notifying you of completed reserch with nice little quotes. But that kinda becomes old after a 
 while. And if you get tired of the music, the game gives you the option of using music from your 
 PC, which is always nice.
  
  If you like strategy games like Risk, or if you're a history buff/gamer and would like to see how 
 Genghis Khan would fare against Washington, this game would keep you occupied well into the night. 
 Even after you win a game, it gives you an option, which sums up this game perfectly: Wait, just... one... more... turn. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rolls1931
Rating: 6.6
Date: Dec 9, 2006 6:27 pm PT
Review:  Introduction: With the release of civilization 4, and the score of 9.4 on gamespot, I decided to 
 try the game. The reviews promised huge amounts of addiction and intriguing gameplay, but I recieved 
 none of the above. Gameplay: The gameplay was pretty solid, but after about three hours of playing 
 most people will get very bored of researching and sending individual soldiers one by one to attack 
 the enemy. Possibly the biggest factor to my low rating of the gameplay is the combat system. It 
 is boring, and tedious. Multiplayer didn't feel remotely like multi-player - rather just extremely 
 aggressive computers.
  
  Graphics: The graphics were very nice. The earth in the background of the menu was very well done, 
 and the portraits of the leaders were shiny and nice. Graphics were probably the strongest part 
 of the game for me. Sound: The tribal music that I heard when I first played was an immediate turn 
 off. I thought I was going to be in hell with a lion-king soundtrack the whole time, but luckily 
 I was mistaken. Playing as Washington you'll hear The Battle Hymn of the Republic performed by 
 woodwinds, and playing as Gandhi you'll hear cultural Indian music. The soundtrack is quite nice. 
 Value: The low score comes from me not wanting to play the game after around 18 hours of trying 
 to like it. Tilt: I tilted it to five - (mediocrity) due to the same reason as the value part. 
 The sound and graphics don't make up for the dull experience I had.
  
  I don't feel that I'm qualified to give out recommendations for this one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BYutzy
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 8, 2006 6:35 am PT
Review:  I LOVE this game!! I wish I never had to turn my computer off and could play it forever. The whole 
 interface in the game is very easy to use and the xml files are so easy to edit. I have already 
 made my own civilization, character trait, and person. The only problem was I had to use another 
 civ's leader picture. If only I knew python so I could change the game completely to my liking. 
 I wish more games would write their games for easy editing. Anyways, it is impossible to completely 
 beat Civilization IV because there is always another way or strategy to use to win. I have not 
 yet played the Warlords expansion pack and I don't really see how this game can get any better, 
 but I am sure Firaxis games found a good way to make it better. Anyone wants a good turn-based 
 stragedy game, this is it. Civ IV cannot be beat. Myself I prefer turn-based to real-time such 
 as Age of Empires III. Turn-based allows for more time to organize and move units. The next PC 
 game everyone should buy is definitely Sid Meier's Civilization IV. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Com_Meister32
Rating: 9.7
Date: Dec 3, 2006 5:11 pm PT
Review:  Ahhhh... How much time have I spent playing this game losing hours upon hours of sleep? How many 
 times have I said to myself, Just one more turn.... ? Alot.
  
  Civilization IV should be recognized as a weapon of mass destruction instead of a video game. This 
 game is so immersive that you will think that you are Ghenghis Kahn, Napoleon, or one of the many 
 leaders in the game. It's just tough to stop. You just have to wait until that Wonder is built 
 that might give you the edge... You just have to wait until you research that technology that will 
 give you the edge in the war against the French... The multiplayer is now revamped giving you some 
 much better options and smoother play. Civ IV (and all the civ games for that matter) is probably 
 the most replayable game ever created, and it is so incredibly moddable thanks to the Python script. 
 You can go to any Civ site such as Civfanatics. com and download mods, custom scenarios, maps, etc. 
 or just mod it yourself. I would highly recommend this game to any turn-based strategy fan. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Knight-of-God
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 3, 2006 3:01 am PT
Review:  I just started playing this game (it was a birthday present) , but it is amazing. This is by far 
 the best civ game, the best strategy game, ever. It's beauty all starts with the tutorial. You 
 actually have (the game rendition of) Sid Meier teaching you the ropes. I found that part hilarious!! 
 That is really the only reason to take the tutorial. The set up is pretty easy as you just click 
 the icons to do what you need. If you have ever played civ three it is about the same on the controls. 
 However, the graphics are WAY BETTER. 3-D rocks!!!
  This is the best PC game, ever! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wackys
Rating: 9.7
Date: Nov 21, 2006 10:33 am PT
Review:  OK. I was expecting a booooring and over-hyped game. But it's not.
  
  The Good: Very addictive (i just stayed on a game for like 2-3 hours) ; it never gets booring; very 
 intelligent A. I; High replay ability (cause of those random maps) ; great soundtrack; and so on (cause 
 they are many)
  
  The Bad: if you have a very large empire the games moves slowly (but maybe it's my machine) ; The 
 sounds (not referring to the soundtrack)
  
  So..... it's a great game and although i am not a 2K fan (most of their games i did not like) this 
 is one of their most great stuff till prezent and it's a MUST for TBS and RTS fans. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: scvido
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 18, 2006 4:19 am PT
Review:  Listen to me carefully ladies &amp; gentlemen....
  
  Having played all kind of games since 1989 when i had my 1st pc till today it is without any reservation 
 that i proclaim CIVILIZATION IV as the best game ever made. period.
  
  i don't recall a game that caused me to lose sleep and get schizophrenia. lol
  say goodbye to 
 your family and social life.
  
  today it is November 18th 2006 and since the launch of CIV IV i have never stopped playing it, 
 in fact once this review is over i'll go back to it... i play it everyday. been doing so for months.
 
  
  want a game that lasts forever and stays in your brain long before you turned off your pc?
  
 
  GET ..... CIVILIZATION IV !!! NOW!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 4thespy
Rating: 9.4
Date: Nov 17, 2006 10:22 pm PT
Review:  Its the best Civ out of them all, so many sleepless nights. I was loosing at first until I realized 
 in this Civ 4 you have to specialize each city, when before you build as many buildings/improvements 
 as you could. This time around you plan ahead as to what each city will do: research, trade, culture 
 and so on. Then the game really takes off and you start kicking arsee. Although this is game is 
 amazing, amazing, amazing, I see a little space for improvement. 2 suggestions from my side: Have 
 a Que feature for your workers. If you played this game a lot you'll know what I mean. It really 
 distracts having to plan over and over what your worker will build. It would be best to build a 
 city, select its specialization and plan the workers improvements.
  
  Play beyond the Space Race. It would be even more amazing when you develop your space program. 
 To build ships and land/colonize on another planet. Similar to Alpha Centauri. It would be a great 
 addition to the best Civ game of all time. Closing. When ever I get a little spare time I try to 
 play, too bad when you start playing its so difficult to stop. Very difficult.
  
  Great job Sid, Firaxis and the rest. I'll sure be waiting for the next one to come out:) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Morlune
Rating: 8.6
Date: Nov 16, 2006 6:21 am PT
Review:  For me, this was the first time I played the Civilization series. I can't say I was dissapointed. 
 At first it seemed a but overwhelming, but if you have some patience, this game is really worth 
 playing! There is nothing special about the graphics. This, however, doesn't really matter. The 
 cinematic wonder-sequences are pretty cool though! This goes for the sound as well, except for 
 one of the best menu-sooundtrack I have ever heard.
  
  It is the gameplay that makes Civilization IV an important game. It isn't one of those games where 
 you can just build a great army, send it to war, and win. You must analyze situations, make friends 
 and enemies, trade goods and resources and even make your worst enemies trust you! Building an 
 empire is hard work. Do you want your citizens to love you? Or do you want them to be your slaves? 
 You can build a cultural empire based on religions and philosphy and even build hollywood and invent 
 Rock 'n' roll. If not, you can put all you strenght in developing scientific wonders. It is all 
 up to you! Do you have the patience it takes to control one of the worlds greatest civilizations? 
 Are you Mao Zedong with freedom of speech, or do you choose to play as Roosevelt as a teocratic 
 despot?
  
  Choosing a civilization is important for how well you will be able to build the civilization you 
 dream about. If you want to crush all of your opponents, you might not want to choose Saladin, 
 the philosopher king? But you can.. If you want! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FootFetish24
Rating: 5.5
Date: Nov 13, 2006 2:33 pm PT
Review:  I do not understand why this game was given a 9.4
  Gameplay: Very mediocre, traveling to another persons base takes 500 years?
  
  Graphics: Ugly 
 and unimpressive. The armies are only three soldiers and the cities are bland and ugly.
  
  Sound: Horrible, when hitting another unit in this game it sounds comical and from the radio.
 
  
  Value: I bought this game for 20$ it was not worth it.
  
  Overall this game is not hyped up to what i thought it was going to be, its unimpressive in all 
 aspects of a game, the only good thing i can come up is the idea they ruined so horribly. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: noferesti
Rating: 9.6
Date: Nov 13, 2006 1:17 pm PT
Review:  Civilization IV is a historical 4X game in which the player builds an empire from scratch. All 
 standard full-length games begin in 4000 BC with a single settler to build one's first city and 
 a scout or a warrior. From there, the player expands the empire while contending with rivals, utilizing 
 the geography, and developing technology.
  
  The player has several obstacles to face modelled on political or economical problems faced by 
 real-world nations. Apart from this they also have to handle their diplomatic relations with rivals 
 and their continuing quest for exploration and new resources. Other important tasks include the 
 planning of where to build new cities and progress in science which reveals access to new technologies. 
 A player has the choice of playing the part of a number of historical figures ranging from Elizabeth 
 I (English Empire) to Mao Zedong (Chinese Empire) .
  
  The scope of the game ranges from a period near the stone-age to A. D. 2050. Civilizations gradually 
 advance in technology based on their own production of research and sometimes the work of Great 
 People. Technologies range from Writing and Pottery to Paper and Nuclear Fission. All technologies 
 reveal new possibilities for a civilization and enable the chance to trade with other civilizations 
 for military aid, gold, resources or other technologies. The concept of technological growth is 
 based on a technology tree.
  
  Another important concept in the game is the growth of culture, which expands one's cultural borders 
 and can also cause one's culture to infiltrate into other civilization's, sometimes causing a city 
 to rebel against its current owner. Culture is increased through the creation of World Wonders, 
 which also have other effects, constructing certain buildings in cities, and the spreading of a 
 number of religions (see below) .
  
  The game can be won through Conquest (conquering all other civilizations) , Domination (controlling 
 a dominant percentage of the world's land and the world's population) , Space Race (being the first 
 to construct the various parts of a space ship to fly to Alpha Centauri) , Cultural (increasing 
 the cultural ratings of three different cities to legendary levels) , Diplomatic (through votes 
 in the United Nations) or Time (having the most points at the end of 2050) .
  
  Civilization IV was released in English, German, French, Spanish and Italian. Fans have made also 
 Russian and Finnish translations. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sinizegreywing
Rating: 9.4
Date: Nov 11, 2006 12:47 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay:
  
  You start as a weak settler trying to start a civilization in 4000 BCE and eventually start developing 
 nuclear weaponry and building the next Apollo spaceship. The game is incredibly addictive and gives 
 the player numerous choices about how to play. You can choose the route of peace, dominating others 
 with your religion and culture or the route of total war, making sure your civilization is the 
 last one standing.
  
  Graphics:
  
  This is where the game has improved the most since Civ 3. This time around, I really enjoyed the 
 look and layout of the game.
  
  Sound:
  
  At first, you don't really notice it but it really helps to set the mood of the game. Quite well 
 done like every aspect of this game.
  
  Value:
  
  WARNING! Playing this game will make you forget things like doing your homework... or peeing...
 
  
  If you enjoy strategy games, this should be a no-brainer. One of the best games I've ever played. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: leafsin67
Rating: 9.8
Date: Nov 5, 2006 10:53 am PT
Review:  One of the best things to happen to games, especially in the RTS, RPG genre is the ability to 'mod' 
 the game. Civilization takes this one step farther and encourages you to do that exact thing by 
 making pretty much every part of the game completely moddable. If the 'vanilla' Civ IV finds you 
 wanting more, go to one of the popular Civ sites online and download a mod to play. You will find 
 what you are looking for, if you look for it.
  This game is much like any other civ game. Start as a settler, build a city, build units, build 
 buildings, build a wonder. Yeah. Even the victories are the same. The wonder movies are good.
 
  Civ IV has stuck to the tried and tested theory of don't fix if it ain't broke. They also added 
 to the game with its United Nations victory condition for example as something trying to be different.
 
  This game is highly recommended to you nerds out there that want to lose your scholarship at your 
 university because you are playing Civ IV all day and night. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: foever86
Rating: 9.2
Date: Nov 4, 2006 10:32 pm PT
Review:  It's just a great game. Good graphic, nice sound, great gameplay... there are not many things to 
 criticize in this game. Either if it's against computer playing by yourself, or playing against 
 your friends over the network, this is just a great game lets you have plain fun. Also, there's 
 a way to play this game over e-mail, by sending out the information to your opponent's mailbox 
 and he reads yours and vise versa. It sounds cool, even though I never tried it as it would take 
 a lot of time.
  
  Maybe if I want to criticize this game, I guess I could say this game can be too long. Especially 
 when you and your opponents are occupying one continent each. That makes the battle quite difficult 
 and could make the game very lengthy. But still, the game can't be a bad one because it forces 
 you to play for a long time. Maybe that's what the games thesedays should be doing.
  With all the good things this game has, this one earns score of 9.2. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: habsfan21
Rating: 9.1
Date: Nov 4, 2006 6:02 am PT
Review:  Civ-IV is an amazing game graphically and in game play, but unfortunately, graphics may be too 
 high for normal people with normal computers. My computer, when I play a game with more than 2 
 other people, takes FOREVER to finish. I guess it's normal that the more people there are, the 
 slower the game will run, but near the end of the game, I can probably go get a bowl of cereal 
 and get back in time for my next turn. Otherwise, extremely amazing game, the animations of combat 
 are really well done and the historical context is extremely accurate; so says my history teacher. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cblx1
Rating: 9.7
Date: Oct 30, 2006 5:19 pm PT
Review:  There were only two games that reached the top of my Best Games in Existence list. Those were Battlefield 
 2, and before that, Sim City 4 (which I now regard as 'not all its cracked up to be') . However, 
 the game is somewhat similar to Sim City 4. The object is to build a civilization, starting from 
 the dawn of man, and to the future and beyond... One may also begin at the beginning of any other 
 era (classical, ancient, industrial, etc) . The game is one either when one completes a spaceship 
 and reaches Alpha Centauri, or when the UN votes on a diplomatic victory. There are other ways 
 to win, including cultural domination and destruction of all rival empires.
  
  Unfortunately, the game has a significant learning curve (up to two hours) and may be quite intimidating 
 to some. Therefore, some of the impatient players may quit before they can enjoy the game. However, 
 fans of Civilization III will find the learning curve to be around 5 minutes.
  The sound is of quality, and so is the video. This, however, requires a great deal of processing 
 capacity their recommended performance levels are as follows:
  
  1.8 GHz, 512 Mb RAM, 1.7 Gb HDD, 4x CD Drive, 128 MB Video Card, Direct X 9.0c Sound Card,
  
 
  MY Ultra High Quality System Recommendations:
  2.2 GHz, 1 GB RAM, 1.7 Gb HDD, 8x CD Drive, 256 MB Video Card, Direct X 9.0c Sound Card,
  
 
  The Game will still run almost perfectly with their recommended system requirements, but will 
 be improved with mine.
  
  Be sure you have at least a few hours to spend, as this game is highly addictive. Really, once 
 I played from 7 pm `till 4 am! That's EIGHT HOURS!!! Lastly WATCH STAR TREK!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: firebirdboi06
Rating: 9.3
Date: Oct 30, 2006 3:17 pm PT
Review:  ***NOTICE***
  This review is based on Civ IV for the Mac. Your experience may be sightly different.
  
  ***************
 
  
  Civilization has to be one of those games where, no matter how much you play, you can never get 
 tired of it. The gameplay is generally the same as in Civ III, but with some tweaks, enhancements 
 and additions. As always, it runs as simple or as deep as you want, and with very little issues. 
 Religion plays a much bigger part in the game, and can get you a lot of gold late in the game. 
 What I find is a big let down, is after a while, you can only research Future Tech which from what 
 I can tell, adds no new benefits. Graphically, the game is stunning and impressive. The unit models 
 look very detailed up close, however, the detail will start making the game run slower as your 
 empire grows into a massive entity. Sound is where Civ IV's weakest link is. Often times, it's 
 simply executed in a bad way, and sometimes, I can hear a buzzing sound after having played for 
 a while. The musical selections are pleasing, and change depending on what age you are in. Overall, 
 I find Civ IV to be a beautifully designed game, that is as deep as they come and will always have 
 you staying up for just one more turn . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kap_thirteen
Rating: 4
Date: Oct 28, 2006 8:12 am PT
Review:  Civilisation 3.
  
  Civilisation 3 is pretty much the same game as Civilisation 2. Only with marginally better graphics. 
 The game play is almost exactly the same as before. Now they have this new religion aspect but 
 that does not really change much. The only thing it add is that your rivals will ask you to change 
 religion etc. Nothing interesting. The units are as boring as ever. I for one was very disappointed 
 with this game, being a fan of Civilisation 2, I thought they would improve on other areas of the 
 game. Adding relevant units, really improving the graphics. In this game you would have thought 
 you would have more interaction with the civilisation you create, however, all that remains is 
 the uninspiring 2d top down view of you civilisation.
  I do not recommend anyone buy this rehash of Civilisation 2. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Blitzkrieg10
Rating: 9.6
Date: Oct 18, 2006 12:25 pm PT
Review:  Civilization IV is an amazing game if you enjoy controlling a civilization and having some kind 
 of historical fact behind it. With its top quality graphics, both in videos and during gameplay, 
 you will want to play the game just so you can look at the beauty of the landscape and the amount 
 of detail put into the cities apart of your own, and your deepest rivals, cities.
  This game has many different game styles and difficulties, so it will never be too easy or too 
 boring for you. With many different map sizes, templates, civilizations and civ leaders, you can 
 make each game as unique as the next.
  With many different options including graphic quality, video quality, movement options, battle 
 animations, etc it ensure that almost any one will be able to experience a game of Civilization.
 
  To finish off, there is Multiplayer mode. This mode is great if you want to play with other people 
 worldwide, but you need to have a lot of time on your hands, at least 2hours straight. Other than 
 this, multiplayer mode is enriching and a great way to make your skills increase. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BullDog45
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jul 19, 2007 7:59 pm PT
Review:  This game looks and sounds great out of the series and is as easy to play as the other Civilization 
 games. It seem really enjoy able to play continuously but it could become tiresome with the seeming 
 repetitive game play. The controls in the game are some what quick to understand but can be confusing 
 with all the menus and buttons that are used during game. The city management and gathering all 
 the different recourses is easy to do on all the different maps. The confusing and challenging 
 part is balancing everything so that u can make money, do research, acquire protection and grow 
 your empire all with in the time limit of the game
  
  Overall it is a worth while turn base game to buy for those who like turn base game and / or the 
 Civilization series 
::::::

::::::
UserName: september_basic
Rating: 6.5
Date: Oct 15, 2006 11:01 am PT
Review:  Civilization 4 is not perhaps a masterpiece, since old Sid Meier copped the basic game rules from 
 the old card game Civilization, and perhaps also because he relies on the work of less credited 
 or uncredited others to advance this series forward. The lack of unified reason behind this simulation 
 is noteworthy in the much observed unplausibility in game turn presented as a span in years, construction 
 time, units and distance, and other factors.
  
  The choice to include actual world religions seemed bold but in execution was silly and nebulous, 
 just as cultural genera and cultural specificity choices seem silly and nebulous. Why play as a 
 culture when all that signifies a culture is a cultural alignment motif and a unit type that might 
 not be useful in the culture's predominant terrain (and hence never would be developed as a sensible 
 elite) . It would have been better to permit equipping units as per customization options in Alpha 
 Centauri, and to understand that should (say) Elizabeth the Queen find herself leading Ancient 
 Britons in a jungle kingdom, she would probably reign with some difference than is historically 
 alotted. This might entail that instead of cultural outlooks and units that are provided, rather 
 rulers and nations behave differently depending on what clime their capital is tropic to and a 
 culture's elite unit would be categorised according to terrain rather than era (but remain entirely 
 cultural) . Yes, this could degenerate to Infantry/Elite Infantry , but it needn't.
  
  Despite all this, Civilization 4 is perhaps one of the better offerings that we are permitted to 
 play. While it is largely without strong innovation originating in the so-called brand developer, 
 Civilization 4 behooves armchair generals to consider sparkling graphics and clean presentation. 
 All considered, Sid Meier should look into actually crafting his own games rather than resurrecting 
 old games without granting credit where credit might be due. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Slushpuppy101
Rating: 8.7
Date: Oct 14, 2006 5:14 am PT
Review:  I own Civ 3, which I loved. Then I got Civ 4 and it was a little bit depressing. THe graphics are 
 great and there are tons of options, but there are too many options. Fist you clear the land, build 
 the land irrigate the land and finally build a mine on that aluminum. By the time you finallt get 
 a mine, it seems like you've already lost the game. I think that is the only downside, though. 
 The combat is excellent and easy, just stand next to an enemy and attack. The new animals are interesting, 
 much like barbarians. Overall, this game is good and if you like Turn-based games, then you'll 
 love Civ 4. For those real-time fans like me, it may get a little repeatative. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: woolston
Rating: 9.3
Date: Oct 13, 2006 8:50 am PT
Review:  Civivlization 4 is a masterpiece. id say its better than rome total war. the gameplay is extremely 
 immersive and after about half an hour youll be addicted. the campaign map itself is a delight. watching 
 your workers build farms and mines is a joy. meeting other civilizations is also highly entertaining 
 .The only bad thing is warfare. its extremely difficult.
  
  Because there are a large number of factions there is a high replay value. Graphically the game 
 is excellent. as i have already said the campaign map is a joy to behold, and every little detail 
 is perfect such as rivers and mountains.
  
  Overall this is one of the best games i have played on pc. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mac631
Rating: 9.6
Date: Oct 9, 2006 8:49 am PT
Review:  Civilization IV really does a lot of useful improvement in graphics, sound, even gameplay. Civ4 
 simply become best among the Civ family. Sid Meier does great!
  
  Gameplay: WONDERFUL. Just cannot compared with the other TBS... Build and conquer and it can simply 
 make u addicted until u don't want to eat lunch.. lol
  
  Graphics: Do a great work. PREFECT. Full 3D environment make gameplay funnier.
  
  Sound: Civ3's 
 successor never do a wrg thing. Great work in sound. Each era got different music....
  
  Value: Like this kind of game (got a replay value) , it is very valuable.
  
  Tilt: Play Civ4 
 will never a mistake. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SabotageClock
Rating: 7.8
Date: Sep 29, 2006 1:51 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay: It gets old after a while. I can't go into much detail to explain it, but basically you 
 take a lengthly period of time to learn how to play, then you play it about twice. Thats all you 
 need to see everything that this game has. A lot of people talked about its replayability, but 
 it's kind of monotonous to research the same old technology over and over. Graphics: Pretty good. 
 Sound: Quite good. Value: Its quite nice if you're in the mood for some historical empire building, 
 but I find my copy of Rome: Total War to be more satisfying as far as deep gameplay goes. Tilt: 
 I'll tilt it to an 8 since I like history. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tokamak85
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 29, 2006 12:39 pm PT
Review:  Immersive graphics, epic gameplay, and yet a simplistic interface that removes much of the micromanaging 
 that plagued Sid Meier's Civilization series, CIV IV is hands down the best Civ game yet.
  
  I found the videos a little disappointing. I loved the Civ 2 wonder videos. Pictures and realtime 
 movies of the Eiffel Tower and Universal Suffrage were some of my favorite parts of that game. 
 However, I understand why the developers chose to stick with a more CG-look, as it fits in with 
 the caricatures of the leaders of the various empires and the board game style of this game.
  
  The board game kind of feel to CIV IV will be appreciated by many who love empire games, but 
 also like RTS's. The units in the games also get promotions when they successfully defeat enemies, 
 which adds in a kind of RPG element to the game. The graphics are well-polished and the music just 
 adds to the feel of the game.
  
  I had to upgrade my machine to a board with PCI-Express capacity (and an Nvidia 7600 GT) , but I 
 feel that it was well worth the investment. It's easy to get a handle of the game, but it takes 
 a lot of time experimenting with tactics and strategy with the tech trees to master the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: OblivionGateIV
Rating: 8.6
Date: Sep 25, 2006 8:55 am PT
Review:  Civilization (Civ for short) is one of the staples for PC, from Sid Meier, who also creates the 
 Pirates strategy game for XBox. Meier proves his Civ prowess again, making another Civ a success.
 
  
  In Civilization, you have always been tasked with guiding your chosen empire through history and 
 beyond, making all sorts of choices, and choosing whether or not to follow the course of history.
 
  Civ IV has many modes, that allow you to customize the play area to your exact specs, but the 
 main mode is where it truly shines.
  
  You choose an empire, and then are thrust into the world, and you expand from your beginning city 
 until you have a thriving empire. You can recruit settlers to build new towns, workers to build 
 roads, various warriors for protection, and much more.
  
  You can build ships, bring gifts to other empires (ruled by historical figures like Mao Zedong 
 and Tokugawa) , or declare war on them.
  
  The gamplay gets confusing. You have to designate research funds a lot, and issue orders to all 
 of your subordinates before the turn process starts. The game allows you to put some people on 
 'autopilot,' which works well, but if you have a large civilization, you will still have trouble 
 keeping track of your autonomous workers unless you have a photographic memory.
  
  The graphic are good, but not to detailed. In a colorful, 3D way, you will converse with world 
 leaders, colorfully dresses and pudgy-faced.
  
  The combat is good, but I wanted to be involved a little more. It basically is a giant fight, with 
 the last man's side being the victor. I would have liked to choose their battle actions, like in 
 Fire Emblem. Oh well.
  
  The sound is nothing much, just some bells and un-spectacular music that could have come from a 
 Lion King soundtrack. The game isn't too much ($50 USD) , and it's worht it, with a variety of ways 
 to connect and play with others. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LedZeppGuy32
Rating: 9.3
Date: Sep 18, 2006 8:37 pm PT
Review:  Civ 4 is a conquer the world type strategy game that can be very addictive. A previous iteration, 
 Civ 2, was the first computer game that caused me to experience the Just one more turn... syndrome. 
 Basically, that's when you promise yourself that you will stop playing after the current turn... 
 then after the next current turn... then after the next one... and so forth. Before you know it, 
 many many hours have passed. The thing that hooked me in Civ 2, which is a large part of Civ 4 
 as well, is the technology advancement. Every so often, your civilization discovers a technology. 
 Technologies allow you to produce better military units, better city features, more trading options, 
 special wonders of the world , etc. So, what you can do at first is quite limited, but you rapidly 
 expand your options by advancing technologically. Thus, you're constantly telling yourself, in 
 3 more turns, I'll discover Banking, and then my current financial woes will be a thing of the 
 past, or, Next turn I'll finish building the Statue of Liberty, won't my neighbors respect me then? 
 and the like. Luckily, with Civ 4, they fixed some of the serious game-play issues that plagued 
 the previous two iterations of the Civ series, Civ 3 and Civ: Call to Power. Civ 4 is a very well-balanced 
 and fun game. Civ 4 keeps the innovation of resources from Civ 3 (or maybe it was Civ: Call to 
 Power, I get those iterations two confused) . Some military units require your empire to contain, 
 or to trade for, particular resources before they can be built. Additionally, some resources can 
 increase your cities' happiness, or prosperity, or things like that. Some resources help you build 
 Wonders of the World faster. Civ 4 also keeps the innovation of culture . Basically, your sphere 
 of influence is marked on the map, and you can expand it either militarily or culturally. To pursue 
 the cultural option, you can build buildings which promote your culture, and you can even get cities 
 of your opponents to spontaneously convert to your culture. In Civ 4, you can even win the game 
 by establishing three cities of Legendary Culture --so conquering your opponents is not the only 
 way to victory! Civ 4 adds a new innovation to the game: religion. Religion mostly impacts the 
 game in two ways: (1) If your civilization has a different religion than an opponents', you won't 
 be as liked as may otherwise be the case. That opponent may demand more trade concessions, may 
 be more likely to declare war on your, etc. (2) A city with a religion, or with multiple religions, 
 can build religious-type buildings, which can really help the city's culture -- and hence the culture 
 of your empire. You can wait for religion to spread spontaneously, or you can create missionaries 
 to help the spread -- to your own cities, as well as to your opponents'. It's an interesting addition 
 to the game. All in all, it's a very complex game. I played it for a couple of weeks before I felt 
 like I had a good grasp of practically all the ins and outs -- and I had played all of the previous 
 versions! But it's great fun, and well worth the time investment (well, to the extent that any 
 computer game is, anyway) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cloud88989
Rating: 8.1
Date: Sep 18, 2006 12:13 pm PT
Review:  Sid Meier's Civilization IV
  
  Ok how does Sid keep doing this? He takes a perfect game and then increases everything good about 
 it. Don't understand what I'm on about? Don't know about the other Civilization games? For shame!! 
 Where have you been? In 1991 Sid Meier and MicroProse released Civilization for DOS. The first 
 major RTS (Turn based) that places you at the head of a newly formed Civilization who have bestowed 
 ultimate power to you. The first step is to find a site for your first city - ideally, find a 
 combination of grassland, hills and rivers. Once you have this you can develop military units and 
 buildings. In every turn you are taking in taxes, which can be turned into scientific research 
 or luxuries to keep the people happy, or stored as money. Initially you will only be able to build 
 simple things like Chariots and Granaries, but as the game progresses you can create advanced scientific 
 institutions, factories, and air and sea units. When you meet with other races, you can trade knowledge 
 with them, or simply fight to the death. Conquering other people's cities is a profitable goal.
 
  In 1996 they released the spectacular sequel Civilization II. Which improved on every aspect that 
 the original had, and added even more depth! The graphics were for the time, mediocre to Ok (at 
 best) , but the gameplay, the strategy, the tactics you had to employ, and the management of every 
 city and unit more than made up for the low quality graphics. However the graphics were a vast 
 improvement on the original.
  Then in 2001 Sid and his new company Firaxis developed Civ3. In Civ3 players control one of 15 
 Civilizations (the number was vastly increased with the two expansion packs, and the massive fan 
 site's number of user MODs) . Civilization finally had immense graphics (demanding a pretty decent 
 system for the time) , graphics that could meet up with the super gameplay. Strategies had to be 
 re-thought out, and new tactics employed. You could have a plan that seemed perfect, Luanch a 
 Surprise Attack the Iroquois on their eastern seaboard with a large force of marines, while blitzing 
 their industrial cities in the south with the Battleship fleet. When all of a sudden your Marines 
 land and take out one of their cities, and then the French and Germans declare war on you, because 
 the three had mutual protection plans that you didnt know about, leaving your airbases open to 
 fast attacks by Panzers and Riflemen, leaving your armies on the Iroquois territory vulnerable 
 by air attacks. The computer controlled teams proved more than a match with the increasing difficulty 
 settings.
  Then in 2005 they released their latest instalment of the Civilization franchise (not including 
 expansion packs and CivCity) .
  The graphics on this game are very smart looking and feel very close to the graphics and arts used 
 in Sid Meier's Pirates! And Sid Meier's Railroads! They are bright and sharp, with a feel that 
 if you've played a recent Sid Meier game you are comfortable with.
  There are new strategies you have to implement again, and of course new leader attributes that 
 makes it tricky to conquer if you tend to forget which leader has what kidn of personality and 
 what their strengths are.
  One major change in Civ4 is the addition of Religion! There are seven religions including; Christianity, 
 Islam, Hindi, and Taoism. Religion helps your empire and also destabilizes your empire, but there 
 are ordinances you can put in place to stop the flow of the religions that your enemies embrace. 
 It is always good to found religions as they can help your empire gain a large amount of gold and 
 they can create prophets which vastly improve your empire.
  On previous games you would normally create a district that has factories and has a high production 
 rate, on this instalment you can do so much more. You can create religious capitols, cultural havens 
 where the arts and musics are a major part of the city's standing. You can still create districts 
 of production, military producing areas and of course major defensive structures. You only build 
 cities, but villages and hamlets etc sprout up around and next to your cities which add to gold 
 etc.
  In addition to the workers added in Civ3, there are utility boats that you can send to sea resources, 
 like fish and crab and other resources.
  All in all the improvements from civ3 to civ4, have made Civ4 my favourite strategy game of all 
 time. Far surpassing DoW and Cossacks 2. Despite it being turn based and taking a lot longer to 
 complete or even make headway in the world.
  The score for this game ould be a lot better and i found myself often just opening WinAmp and listenign 
 to my own music rather than the game's score. However saying that, the score does suit the game 
 with it often chanigng as your empire grows.
  If you find this game in the shop and you have some money spare, pick it up, you will not be disappointed 
 i promise you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lineker89
Rating: 8.1
Date: Sep 7, 2006 12:39 am PT
Review:  What a game. This is the only game out of the series that i like, partially due to the improved 
 graphics. The main reason though reflects on the games slogan: just..... one.... more.... turn.
  
  It may take sometime getting used to, at a first look i was already contemplating removing 
 it. But once you learn the basics and get goin, nothing will stop you.
  
  The game lets you command a nations leader, for example with the Indian civs you can choose either 
 Asoka or Ghandi. Each of the leaders has there own atributes, be it a more aggresive approach with 
 improved military qualities or an expansive one, allowing faster growh for your empire.
  
  There isn't really a campaign in this game, although there are a few nifty scenarios for you to 
 try out. My favourite being the Greek World, where you control one of the major greek empires in 
 continent. You'll spend most of your time with the custom game mode though, it being the equivilant 
 of a skirmish. The graphics aren't bad, nice three dimensional models. although it could have been 
 better. The cities aren't completely detailed and the units are simple. Saying that though the 
 unit animations in combat are quite good.
  
  As for the games audio, superb. The main title song seems all too appropiate for the genre, it 
 being something on the lines of Enya. All the clips in the game to are amazing, from primitive 
 drums to Elvis style rock.
  
  The games lifespan is also notable, since the games are never the same, and seeing as there are 
 many ways to obtain victory you can go for a new strategy everytime. There's also a multiplayer 
 mode, but it isn't that remarkable. This game is more of a single player.
  
  To sum it all up, it's a great game, highly addictive and at the top of it's genre at this time 
 in present. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: andilosha
Rating: 9.7
Date: Sep 2, 2006 6:36 am PT
Review:  This game is GREAT, or better. This is the only TBS game I've ever played and I just LOVE it! The 
 style is cool, the way things work is just better! I played the single player mode so far and the 
 relationships with other civilizations was some thing I enjoyed at MAX. The instalation is kind 
 of problematic, but you shurely won't think anymore of it as soon at it's over. Sometimes it get's 
 very slow, so you should have a good parametered PC. It's fun trading with or conquering other 
 civilizatins. The way things work are like the history of the world, one research after another, 
 and they fit perfectly with how thing have worked in centuries. The buildings, resources, units 
 and Cities are too realistic but it is a heavy duty to manage them properly. Although this game 
 is game is great in SP mode, the multiplayer is even better if you'd like to play this game with 
 your friends. This is a COOL GREAT TBS game in every WAY! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: doctor_kaz
Rating: 9.3
Date: Aug 28, 2006 10:08 am PT
Review:  The first Civilization is one of the greatest and most addictive games ever made. It cost me a 
 whole grade point during my senior year in college. I missed Civ II, and after the poor and horribly 
 overrated Civilization III, I was very worried that this series was on the decline. Thus, I approached 
 Civ IV with some apprehension. However, once I got into it, I found it to be every bit as superb 
 and addictive as any strategy game that I have ever played. Civilization IV is the first real overhaul 
 of a Sid Meier game, and its a resounding success. The game adds a ton of great features, and 
 keeps everything that worked in the previous game while tweaking or eliminating everything that 
 didnt work so well. Suffice it to say, the PCs greatest crack pipe simulator is back and better 
 than ever.
  
  In case you have never played a Civilization game, it helps to explain what makes it so great. 
 The game starts you off in the stone age with a tiny tribe, and lets you slowly turn that tribe 
 into a great Civilization by building cities, improvements, and structures. You research technologies 
 and then use them to build up a military or build more improvements. The race to discover technologies 
 first so that you can overpower your enemies creates the incredibly addictive carrot-and-stick 
 process that the game offers. Theres always a reason to play one more turn, to play just a bit 
 longer so that you can develop gunpowder and use it to defeat an opponent that has been annoying 
 you for a while. A single game takes about 8 or so hours to play, and it changes dramatically throughout. 
 You can feel your civilization become progressively more powerful throughout the game. The way 
 that each technology makes things easier for you is immensely satisfying.
  
  If you have played the previous games, then youll recognize Civ IV right away. The game feels 
 very similar to the previous versions, and thats a good thing. It has the same complex mix of 
 strategy, humor, and educational value that you expect from a Sid Meier game. However, you will 
 also notice many additions. For the most part, they are all good. The first major upgrade to the 
 game is the revamping of the tech tree. It still flows like you would expect, but there are more 
 technologies to research. There are also a lot more units, buildings, and wonders to build. Every 
 technology enables you to do something new, whereas in previous games, some technologies have only 
 enabled you to research other technologies. The new wonders in the game show a huge amount of variety. 
 They range from the old familiar ones like The Pyramids, to clever new ones like Wall Street. The 
 game has also added a lot of new Civilizations to the game, and it makes each of them more different 
 than they have been in the past. Some civilizations specialize in culture, while some specialize 
 in war, and others in economics. These variations add a lot of variety and replayability to a game 
 that already has lots of it.
  
  Another fine improvement to the game is the revamping of the way that governing style is implemented. 
 The previous games had very simplified government  it was just despotism, monarchy, republic, 
 etc. This game further subdivides government into five categories, so that you can choose various 
 aspects of government separately. You can play a nationalist, theocratic monarchy if you wish, 
 or you could play a pacifist republic (or, you could by a pacifist theocracy) . The downside of 
 these new complexities is that they make the game hard to pick up for a newbie. Even as a veteran 
 of the series, they can be daunting at first. Religion is also a nice improvement to Civ IV. The 
 game strongly encourages you to foster a strong religion and spreading it, and this adds another 
 strategic element to the game. If theres any disadvantage to religion, its that the six major 
 religions in the game are basically carbon copies of one another.
  
  The previous iterations of Civilization have been mostly war-focused. Sure, there have been civil 
 buildings and lots of science, but the whole point of them was to get tanks and nukes faster so 
 that you could crush your opponents. War with the other civilizations was pretty much inevitable. 
 Civilization IV is a markedly different game. It is a true civ building game, where warlike behavior 
 is optional, and not always beneficial. Defenders have greater advantage, and that makes conquering 
 enemies harder. War usually a losing proposition for both sides. The addition cultural and population 
 victories have drastically changed the game for the better. You now have many options for growing 
 your civilization, and each one is worthwhile, if you do it right. You can dominate the world with 
 your culture and economy, instead of your military. Civilization IV has many great points, in this 
 is perhaps the greatest one. However, if conquering enemies was a favorite part of previous games 
 for you, you might miss this.
  
  While adding lots of improvements, Civ IV also eliminates some old nagging annoyances from the 
 previous games. Remember what a nuisance civil disorder was? It has been toned back, so that now 
 its still important to keep your cities happy, but you wont have cities constantly shutting down 
 because of it. Remember how in Civ III (crap) other civilizations would spam your country with 
 settlers and build cities in squares right next to yours? Now, they can no longer do that, and 
 they cant enter your country without permission or declaring war first. Combat is still a bit 
 random, but not as much as it used to be. Graphically, Civ IV is a very nice looking game, but 
 not spectacular. When you zoom out, the immense activity on the screen from your various cities 
 and workers is a sight to see. The art direction in this game is very good. There are a lot of 
 little animations in the game, and every combat unit looks very unique. The most impressive part 
 of the game is how the world leaders look  each of them has a distinct look, and they emote very 
 convincingly. However, polygon counts are pretty low, so that if you zoom in, the game doesnt 
 look as good. Given the need though, to keep a view of the big picture, you probably wont be zoomed 
 in very often. If Civilization IV has any weaknesses, one would be the audio, which is merely good, 
 but not great. The classical music that plays during the Renaissance Era is excellent, but the 
 rest of the games audio is unremarkable. Sound effects are pretty simple, and they tend to repeat 
 themselves. Opposing leaders greet you with generic text, instead of voice acting, which would 
 have given them a lot more personality. When you select units or give them commands, they all appear 
 to speak their native language, which is a nice touch, but the sound bites also repeat themselves 
 quickly. Leonard Nimoys voice is a nice touch too.
  
  Civilization IV has a pretty daunting learning curve. Resource management and culture are pretty 
 complex in this game. The choices can be overwhelming, and it takes a while to figure out how to 
 develop a coordinated strategy. Since Civ IV randomly generates a map for every game, so that you 
 can play it numerous times. Add on top of that the various leaders you can play and different climates 
 and planet types, and this is a package that can last forever. I wasnt just pleased by this game. 
 I was delighted. Civilization IV easily matches the most addictive turn-based strategy games ever 
 made. The game has the same brilliance that made Civilization a great name in strategy, but enough 
 new material to make it a completely different game. This game will capture you and have you playing 
 long into the night, showing up bleary-eyed to work the next day. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: warstomp
Rating: 9.2
Date: Aug 23, 2006 12:49 am PT
Review:  When you first play you kind of feel like confused but then your like dang this is way easyer to 
 play than the old one. Witch is a great thing. The user inferface is much better than past ones. 
 Online is great with the ability to leave and come back as your race. The Ai is great they support 
 you if you are lower. For example im playing they are like tons of research and points ahead of 
 me due to a major war i had. So they just gave me technology because we were allied. They don't 
 like most games screw you over in a deal offering you stuff were only they can get the best like 
 well give you 10 dollars for like a 50 dollar game. They are very smart they play like a player 
 its scary at times. Each race plays differently. Like Greeks and romans always hate each other 
 but they play different. Like rosevelt and Washington for USA they play way different if i remmeber 
 rosevelt is more economic while washington does more war. The sound is great. Graphics are awesome 
 for its type. It will last you many hours.
  
  !!! Warning not for impatient people !!! you will get very bored.
  
  If you got a good patience 
 you will love it. It is a very good value for the 50$ i got it for at release. I will warn you 
 one confusing thing is when you start a regular game. I found it very confusing when i started 
 playing and my minimap was very small and i could only select a small area even though i selected 
 large land mass. It increases as you explore.
  
  I definantly recommend this. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tomp814
Rating: 9.7
Date: Aug 21, 2006 12:47 pm PT
Review:  After playing the game for a while, I still cant think of a flaw in it. The game-play is better 
 than ever, the graphics looks good and the atmosphere just makes you want to play until youre 
 dead!
  Except for some minor graphical glitches, (the sync between troops fighting in some grounds for 
 example) the game looks awesome, with the option of even see the whole town and its building, or 
 the details on each unit. The music sounds good, varying while the civilizations evolves, and the 
 SFX of the units are a great addition to the ambient and custom of each empire. The game-play stays 
 the best ever, with some natural additions, religion being the best yet.
  What really got me this time was the mods capability and the open editing. Ive seen of everything 
 on the net, from remake of classics to brand-new games, reminding Warcraft III and Quake modding.
 
  Overall, I think Im gonna stay with this game forever, and I seriously would recommend it to 
 any friend of mine. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fidosim
Rating: 9.6
Date: Aug 18, 2006 10:08 pm PT
Review:  It's definetely worth mentioning that Civilization 4 is my first CIV game, and only my third Sid 
 Meier game in general. My first game from this ingenius man was Sim Golf, a long, long time ago. 
 Although that wasn't exactly known as one of his greatest games, it at least put his name in my 
 head. 
  
  Anyway, fast forward to late 2005. I finally get Sid Meier's Pirates! After hearing nothing but 
 good things about it, and enjoy it's addictive quality immensely. I loved how no matter what point 
 in the game you were at, you were always very close to achieving some goal, be it a short term 
 one, or a longer term one that you had strived for for a long time. And now, about a month ago, 
 I finally got around to buying Civilization 4, and i'm happy to say that CIV 4 easily lives up 
 to the fun, addictive qualities that Sid Meier's games have become renowned form, and has made 
 Meier one of my favorite people in gaming, up there with my main man, Will Wright.
  
  Basically, CIV 4 is a turn based strategy game. To those unfamiliar with turn based games, it's 
 quite a simple (but great) concept. When it's your turn, you can adhere to all your administrative 
 duties, which include moving your armies, beginning construction of buildings, founding new cities, 
 creating military units, and so on. And when you've made all of your moves for that turn, you hit 
 the end turn button and the other civilizations make their turns. If you're more familiar with 
 games like Age of Empires, keep in mind that construction or creation of a unit in a turn based 
 game doesn't happen in real time. Instead, buildings and units take a certain number of turns to 
 complete, units can move a certain number of squares per turn, and so on.
  
  The object of CIV 4 is to achieve supremacy over all other civilizations. However, this can be 
 accomplished in a number of different ways. If you're a warmonger, you can attempt to win the game 
 by controlling most of the world's land area and population, usually by conquering several other 
 civilizations. If you seek a more peaceful means of victory, you could focus on research and engineering 
 and win the game by winning the "Space Race" which entails building a space ship and reaching Alpha 
 Centauri. Or you could be the nice guy in the neighborhood and try to win over the other civilizations 
 diplomatically, inclining them to name you leader of the United Nations, thus gaining you a Diplomatic 
 Victory. As you can see, these options for victory offer the game some very enjoyable replayability.
 
  
  Civ also allows you to chose how you want to govern their people, which could even add a touch 
 of roleplaying to the game. You could play a fascist, totalitarian regime that focuses on war and 
 expansion, or a more peaceful democratic republic, or any combination. The game lets you chose 
 different "civics" from different areas of your civilization. For instance, you can chose how your 
 nation is governed, it's labor, economic, and religious system works, amongst other things.
  
  There are plenty of different civs to choose from as well, each with their own leaders who 
 have their own different traits which will benefit you in different ways. A lot of strategic planning 
 can go into which civ and leader you chose based on how you want to play the game. Finding a good 
 trait combonation for your playstyle adds yet another dimension to this simple, yet complex and 
 endlessly engaging game.
  
  If you're looking for a bottom line on Civ 4, it is simply a must have for anyone who is at all 
 interested in world history, or strategy gaming in general. The hours will simply fly by as you 
 found your first cities, access natural resources to better your civilization, build grand world 
 wonders as a tribute to your nation's glory and power, plan and execute battle strategies against 
 your opponents in war, or even trying to get that Manhattan Project completed before your arch 
 rival can, to gain the upper hand by creating the ultimate weapon. Sid Meier's Civilization 4 is 
 an amazing game, and if this is an accurate example of the Civilization series, then I will not 
 want to miss out on what is in store for us next.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Corrosion
Rating: 7.7
Date: Oct 17, 2006 1:06 pm PT
Review:  Ahh........ For the first time in my life, I've finally got the chance to play a Sid Meier's Civilization 
 game. This is my first time. Reading so many good reviews about it, I decided to pick it up (at 
 long last) . This game was Gamespot's Best of 2005 award winner, IGN. com's 2005 Game of the Year 
 for PC as well as gamespy. com's 2005 Game of the Year for PC.
  
  Hearing all about hours of addictive fun and finally trying the game out, here are my thoughts 
 about Civilization IV and how it lived up to the praise:
  
  BACKGROUND:
  
  For those who haven't played this game or either the rest of the series, Civ IV is a historical-themed 
 strategy game. What I mean by historical-themed is that the game incorporates plenty of aspects 
 from history, from the early stages of humans to the modern ages to the space age. It's played 
 out like a history book EXCEPT in this case history does not have to be the way it was. You can 
 decide what religion for say, Rome has, or make Genghis Khan a peaceful ruler etc....
  
  Page 4 of this 'bulky chapter-book like' manual (which btw is an eyeopener to how the learning 
 curve is) I received from the Civ IV game box, summarizes what you actually do in the game perfectly:
 
  
  In Civ IV, you start with a tiny group of settlers in the middle of a vast and unexplorered world. 
 From these humble beginnings you will build a new city, creating workers to improve land, scouts 
 to explore the world, settlers to build new cities, and warriors to protect what's yours.
  
  Soon you will meet other civilizations. Some you will coexist with peacefully, trading goods, 
 wealth, and even new advancements in technology. Others you will fight - perhaps to the death! 
 
  
  Sounds fun doesn't it? Unfortunately, it's not all how it appears.
  
  Okey dokey... Here are my main complaints of the game:
  
  1) GRAPHICS - Civ IV uses the Empire 
 Earth engine. This engine does not look too good (though it is okay) . The game also feels like 
 Age of Mythology, the only difference being that there are no magical creatures or RTS-style army 
 battles. For a small enhancer, you can zoom out into a global view of the map. I can play this 
 game with everything on high with smooth frame rates, yet the graphics are not spectacular at all, 
 having only enough 'decent' graphics for the game to played that it does not bother you.
  
  2) GAMEPLAY - Hmm........ Despite having so much content (e. g all the historical stuff and even 
 a Civilopedia ) , the game has all the right ingredients for a strategy game, yet fails to connect. 
 Being leader of my own empire, I felt like that the only job I had to do was simply trying to build 
 and build new cities (thereby expanding the empire) and making peace/making war with other nations. 
 In my view, Civ IV looked like an Age of Empires game, without (as I mentioned before) the army 
 battles and detailed building construction. Not that there is no building construction, there is..... 
 The only thing is is that the cities look like small 'squares' or minimized huts with fancy decorations. 
 Nothing more. You can pick and choose what to build/create for units/buildings and decide what 
 technologies to research, yet these sort of options don't really enhance the gameplay that much 
 at all. Simply put, there's not much action, only simply trying to advance your civilization as 
 much as possible and expanding your boundaries. Even that is not exciting.
  
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------
  List of Negatives:
 
  
  1) Gameplay gets boring after a while... as in after figuring out what you'll end up having to do 
 to win (and repeating it over again) . Sometimes I felt this was simply consuming my time and not 
 because it was addictive that you end up spending hours and hours. Civ IV gives you plenty of historical 
 content, but what good is it if the gameplay is boring?
  
  I can compare it to a game having many game modes, yet the gameplay itself is boring rendering 
 the many game modes in the game useless.
  
  2) A hard learning curve, though you will get used to everything after a while.
  
  3) Graphics 
 are bland in some parts.
  
  List of Positives:
  
  1) Good sound/music.
  2) Beautiful in-game movies.
  3) Amazing amount of history-laden content (despite you having 
 to eventually decide your Civilization's history) and good custom options.
  4) Good historical scenarios to play out in single-player options.
  
  CONCLUSION:
  
  Civ 
 IV is an overrated game without question. Make no mistake, there are indeed moments in the game 
 that will keep you hanging on. Many say it's the addictiveness or is it simply the time-consuming 
 efforts in trying to play the game out? Civilization fans from the past will love this game, but 
 I don't think veterans of other strategy games will be left in awe. Civ IV has all the right ingredients 
 (info/content) , but it failed to impress me as a strategy game in terms of gameplay.
  
  - Corrosion. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: megafeck
Rating: 8.9
Date: Aug 10, 2006 11:03 am PT
Review:  Conspiracy theories and what if scenarios have fueled thousands of minds over the course of history. 
 Everything from the American Civil war to the dropping of nuclear weapons on Japan has been dissected 
 and second guesses over the years following these events. People always believe they could of done 
 better if they were put in charge. When the US constitution was written would they still allow 
 freedom of speech? When the Romans ruled the known world would they instead be doing so with muskets? 
 Or when the pilgrims fled to America for religious freedom, would that religion be Hinduism? There 
 is one gaming series that has just those thoughts in mind and allow those second guessers a chance 
 live out their fantasies. That series is Civilization and this is the fourth official incarnation 
 of it. So will you rule with an iron fist or an open hand?
  
  Over the past several years Civilization, or Civ for short, has ruled the late hours of the night 
 as players fight to break free from the struggle of just one more turn. This addiction is so 
 strong it has even gone as far to have a support group for the more involved players. The question 
 though is why the draw is so powerful and what is Civilization? The answer is simple, Civilization 
 is a turn based strategy game based around the idea that the player gets to play as the leader 
 of a civilization of man. That player then leads his civ from the Stone Age to the Modern Age using 
 any means required. The player can choose to battle his way to glory by building vast armies or 
 a more subtle approach of being the nicest leader ever. The path is open to however the player 
 wishes to play.
  
  The actual game play is a bit more complex and really does reward a strong mind and patient player. 
 Every civilization starts off with a settler and a scout or warrior. Using the settler you'll build 
 your first city and that's when the strategy begins. Do you build a barracks to make a more powerful 
 army or do you construct a worker to help build your city? Make the wrong decision early and your 
 civ will be playing catch up for a very long time. Make the right one and the world can be yours.
 
  
  When you do start city building and expanding you'll need to think about the three main factors 
 involved in building a city. They are: Food, Production (hammers) , and Gold. Every tile space surrounding 
 your city has a piece of terrain that will give some of these or none of these to your city depending 
 on your terrain. Food is by far the most important for a city. A city needs food to feed it's citizens 
 and with enough food the city can grow and add more citizens. Which in turn means you need more 
 food, but since you're city is bigger there will be one more worker out in the fields. Production 
 is probably the second most important aspect of a city. The production of a city is represented 
 by small hammers. The more hammers your city produces the faster it can build units and buildings. 
 Finally, gold is probably the least important, but that doesn't mean you should neglect it. Some 
 city areas will produce gold which in turn allows you to buy buildings so you don't have to wait 
 for them to be built or you can trade with your rival civs for tech, resources, and ect. By building 
 workers in your city you can improve the terrain around you by adding everything from roads to 
 lumber mills to improve the amount of gold, food, and production your city will generate.
  
  With the history lesson over we look to the future. What's new in this version of the game? 
 Well one of the most welcome parts of the game I've seen is that it comes with Multiplayer included. 
 Past civilization games forced the player to have to buy an expansion pack if they wanted to play 
 Civilization against other players. This is one of the biggest knocks against the series in my 
 own opinion. Thankfully that has been rectified and now you can play directly, hotseat, or by e-mail 
 against the world. Also new to civiliztion is religion. The makers of civilization were very careful 
 with this aspect of the game. Every religion acts the same, they each give +1 happiness to your 
 civ. However it's not all roses and candy though. Civs with the same religion usually get along 
 a lot better, but civs with different religion are almost impossible to get along that well. Also 
 new with the game are more wonders, new wonder movies, more technologies, more city improvements, 
 more leaders, more units, and basically more everything. They've even added a very light RPG leveling 
 system for units that on level up will give them special promotions.
  
  On thing that will catch everyone's eye is the inclusion of true 3D graphics. No longer will players 
 have to sit and watch flat units walk around a flat map. This by far was a long over due step and 
 one that will sit well with new players and veterans alike. Speaking of these 3D graphics they 
 are amazing. The graphics are bright and varied with mostly well designed units. Cities are even 
 better as now you can see all the building the city has built from the world map. The large amounts 
 of detail will leave you with your tongue hanging out of your mouth they are that amazing. The 
 only thing that might be better than the graphics is the sounds and music. Like its predecessors, 
 Civ IV has an impressive soundtrack that you might find yourself humming after a few hours of playing. 
 As for the soundfx they are very well done very tight and polished. The cherry on the top of the 
 ice cream has to be the role of Leonard Nimoy (aka Spock) as narrator. When a technology is discovered 
 there is a quote to go along with the tech which is read by Leonard Nimoy. Just by the sound and 
 graphics alone this makes an awesome game.
  
  Despite how great the core game play, the sound, and the graphics make the game there are a few 
 things which are not so great. First of all the game seems a tad dumbed down from previous versions. 
 It is far too easy to connect cities now and roads become almost useless. Put a city on the coast 
 or next to a river and poof it's connected. Another thing that seems a bit iffy is that certain 
 AI leaders will always act the same way. Is Montezuma a rival leader? Then expect a war with him 
 before game's end. Caravans have been completely removed and spies have been nerfed, thus taking 
 most of trading out of the game and making spies mostly useless. Also, some wonders make no sense. 
 The Internet will give you any technology already known to two other players, but by the time you 
 get the tech learned for it and get it built you won't need it. Finally the rival civs are a bit 
 annoying. It seems every other turn they are asking if they can have an open borders treaty with 
 you, thus allowing your units to pass through their territory and vice versa. Well if you say no 
 prepare for another civ to ask right after that or the same civ to bug you a couple turns later. 
 No means no.
  
  Despite these few short falls the game is absolutely wonderful. With the expansion on almost every 
 portion of the game, improved graphics and sounds, and great unit promotions it makes the game 
 a wonderful experience. Couple that with the removal of the more annoying features of pollution 
 and riots over unhappiness and the addition of easy moddablity and you have a game that will rule 
 your life for hours on end 
::::::

::::::
UserName: playsBBa018
Rating: 9.6
Date: Aug 7, 2006 10:40 am PT
Review:  Civilization IV is the fourth game in the Civilization series..... and its amazing. I have spent 
 lots of time on it because I love this game! The developers have added lots of new things to the 
 game including technologies, new units, wonders (which can help boost production or culture) , and 
 great people. These Great People can be used to do things like create instant technologies, get 
 you instant sums of gold, spy on lands, or even convert entire cities to your religion. And oh 
 yea religion is also a new aspect to the game. Different religions in the game include Buddhism, 
 Christianity, Islam, Judaism, Hinduism, Taoism and Cunfucianism. The plus side to religion is that 
 you can build a holy city with a shrine in it. With the shrine you can get +1 gold every turn from 
 foreign cities where your religion is present. Using great prophets, if its even possible, you 
 could convert the whole map and get tons of money. Also, all the tedious micromanagement like cleaning 
 up pollution and putting down riots isn't here allowing you to concentrate more on the gameplay. 
 Trading with the AI is easier now that they give you very good offers but it's also harder to buy 
 them off with bad deals. The new open borders thing allows you to decide wether or not your allies 
 (or enemies) are allowed to freely cross into your land. But if you keep rejecting your allies 
 they will get angry with you. Now, the tech tree doesn't advance in ages as before so it's possible 
 you can get other techs before others. This allows you to research on your own path instead of 
 worrying about researching certain techs to advance to the next age. All in all Civ IV is a great 
 game and definitly worth it. So go buy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kyasuda
Rating: 9.4
Date: Aug 5, 2006 6:48 pm PT
Review:  Anyone whos ever been a fan of strategy games in any way, shape, or form should definitely check 
 this game out. One of the most addicting games ever made, Civilization 4 is one of those rare games 
 that you can keep playing for ever and ever (until the sequel comes out, that is) . The multiplayer 
 is unbelieveably fun, and if you can convince at least three other friends to play this game with 
 you on a regular basis, you'll love it. The singleplayer is almost as much fun as multiplayer, 
 especially if you play singleplayer with the intent of honing your skills in order to improve yourself 
 for muliplayer games. Try this game, and you'll see why so many people make jokes with regards 
 to Civ addiction, which in fact is no joke. This game is truly addicting to a level that few games 
 have reached. The amount of time you'll end up spending playing this game is definitely worth the 
 cost of admission. If you're looking for just one game to keep you busy for months and months, 
 this is the game for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bobinjobin
Rating: 7.2
Date: Aug 5, 2006 5:24 pm PT
Review:  Civ 4 is probably the best game in the series but you can't play as honest abe in it. For people 
 who haven't played this game before, the point of the game is ether to control the whole map or 
 do one of many other things to be the top civilization. The game play is pretty good kind of like 
 age of empires but you go through years by pressing the red button or pressing enter. The movement 
 and battle sequences are much different then age of empires. What you have to do is to move your 
 character and it tells you how many turns it will take to move the selected unit. There and then, 
 you have to move your units towards the enemy's unit to attack and see who wins. The outcome of 
 the victor depends on the attack strength or the unit, or depending on how you upgrade your units. 
 By winning, your unit gains experience to upgrade. You can also uprgade units when they are created 
 in a town where a barracks is built. (oh yea you can't go through your enemy land unless you have 
 pen boarders or declared war on) . But the best thing in the game is that Spock (Leonard nimoy) 
 as the narrator. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ashnard08
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 4, 2006 6:40 pm PT
Review:  Civilization IV.......... IS AMAZING!!!!!! The fourth game in the huge series is by far the best. 
 It runs like the other games for the most part so if you already know the games, there isn't much 
 to learn and the tutorial makes learning the game very easy for beginners. In this particular CIV 
 game you control over your kingdom is much more in depth. There are five categories of civics (ways 
 your people live) and you can combine the most unlikely of combinations. Like, A Chinese government 
 that has free speech. Another notable difference in this game is that you can chose your civilizations 
 state religion, or not to have a religion. Imagine, An Arabian country that follows Christianity!!! 
 The third big difference in this game is the leaders character traits. This makes some leaders 
 more militarily stronger than others, while those people are more cultural. That makes the game 
 more challenging and unique. All I can say now is.......... BUY THIS GAME!!! IT IS WORTH IT!!!!!!!! 
 YOU WILL NOT BE DISAPPOINTED!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Shatilov
Rating: 9.6
Date: Aug 3, 2006 2:22 pm PT
Review:  The Good : The Gameplay really gets u into TBS gaming , were u must use ur intelligence & abilities 
 along the side of brute force & diplomacy , were there is no place for a Neutral Civilization , 
 because u'll get involved sooner or later , War has No Escape . This new gameplay make the game 
 alot mor attractive to TBS games & to Strategy games lovers in general , it isn't as Civ II or 
 III used to be , it is another way to play from another view . That is what I have to say about 
 the gameplay . The graphics are great and good concerning a TBS game with no many options , but 
 as u enter the graphical option in the main menu , u can sense how much work has been put in this 
 game to make it look attractive , & the proof for this is just put them on law graphics & u will 
 see the difference , but u can also sense that there is not that much difference so that it can 
 work on old machinces . The Sound , well what can I say other than great , were u can hear the 
 difference in the tracks while u are playing & moving along the world from jungle to an area were 
 there is war , to an erea with another Civilization to another etc... , but the soundtacks of the 
 game , well what can i say other than perfect , well atleast to the menu track ( ex : Ahh yet to 
 yet too reyat , men doone ya toyat ) :) sorry guys i was just trying to sing it lol . 
  
  The Bad : The only bad thing about the Gameplay is the lack of sleep that u get out of this game 
 , i thought that Gamespot wasn't fair to it , but yet what they said about it was true , but this 
 bad thing is the 1st time for me to mean a bad thing in a good way ( i know it is confusing ) { 
 how could the lack of sleep can be a good thing } well i dont have to answer it , u'll understand 
 when u play the game or if u played it , & another thing is that there is a clock that u can enable 
 in the game so that u dont loose track of time . . The Graphics , sometimes the game does have 
 some problems such as ( seeing scratches along ur screen , these re from the game & not from the 
 screen , were u dont know what is going on anymore , & thus u can' play , I recently still had 
 the problem with it untill that I enabled the Law Texture Resolution Option ) , cause when I enabled 
 it the problems all disappeard ( i guess that this problm is a Graphical Driver prolem & not a 
 game bug , but I had the lastes driver software for my Nvidia 6800 GT so i dont know ) . As to 
 sound , well the menu track is great , but sometimes the inside audio can be a bit annoying , were 
 the sound get high in an area & law in another one , ( but u can ignore this thing normally it 
 is not that much of a big thing ) . 
  
  1st Note : The Graphical problm is a thing that only me had faced according to my informations 
 I dont know about others . But I knew about some graphical problems . 
  
  2nd Note : About the bad thing in the Gameplay ( Not getting enough Sleep ) this is a thing that 
 alot of users face if not all of them , were u get so involoved in the game so that u forget the 
 time , so that is why they enable u to place a clock in the game , so u can track time . 
  
  I actaully dont have to tell u to go & buy it , its scores along the internet ( Gamespot , 
 IGN , etc..... ) , but I can tell u that ur 1st impression is that I wont like it why did i buy 
 it , oh damn u Shatilov , but after u get involved u will be addicted to it . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kingdom_heart_7
Rating: 7.5
Date: Aug 2, 2006 3:58 pm PT
Review:  This wasn't a bad game, by any means. As a turn-based, all strategy game, focusing on techs and 
 culture, it gets the highest marks. But for me, that doesn't cut it alone. i was left wanting more 
 from the combat system.
  
  for example: one civ had one city, that's it, just one city. I destroyed all the imorovents and 
 tried to wait it out. No luck. 9 turns later i finally had majorly damaged thier units. For me, 
 that's too long. But i soon found out that wasn't even the worst. On top of all this, the fight 
 animation is not very good IMO, and the scale was way off.
  
  Now, I would recommend to wait till the price goes down (way down) and have a good strategy game 
 for a rainy day. However, i regret having paid $50 for this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pRiVaTeRyAn92
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jul 30, 2006 4:21 pm PT
Review:  This game, is definately the best in the series. The overall gameplay is great, the graphics, well, 
 here's the issue. It seems ridiculous that it ONLY works on TWO different graphics cards. What 
 the hell? There's many different types out there and I'm sure mines not THAT advanced, but really. 
 ONLY two? The graphics are definately not what the game is about, but it told me at installation 
 that my machine was under minimum specifications, while it clearly was not. Therefore, I play on 
 the lowest graphic settings. Pretty pathetic, huh? Wait until I get that Area-51 PC... Anyway, this 
 is an immense game, with THOUSANDS of possibilities, and HUNDREDS of mods. I'm very immpressed 
 but dissapointed at some aspects, like the "spearman beats infantry" thing. Kinda cheap. This game 
 grows on you, so don't be mad if it's hard at first. Practice makes perfect, well, almost perfect 
 :) . Sid Meider rocks! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sixty7velle
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jul 27, 2006 1:29 am PT
Review:  I played Civ 4 for about 2 months strait and I just realized that this game has changed the way 
 I look at gaming. I have long been a RTS fan but never tried a turn based one. The game is really 
 simple to learn but VERY hard to master. I can't even begin to describe how addicting this game 
 is. I have found myself playing for up to 5 hours strait before and still had to save my game in 
 the middle. An easy way to describe Civ 4 is that it's like chess... 1 stupid move and you're finished. 
 Any strategy fan will love Civ 4. This game is only second best to conquering the world in real 
 life. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SaMuRaI_Slice
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 25, 2006 2:17 pm PT
Review:  I bought Civ 4 after hearing good things and ended up playing it in a way I shall not discuss (Has 
 to do with Pirates) . However I bought the game because I liked what I saw. This was my first Civ 
 game and what I heard as well was that it can be very overwhelming at first, and it is. I've had 
 the game for a week or 2 now and I'm just about getting good at it. You normally start off your 
 first game playing it like you would other RTS. If you've played Age of Empires this game will 
 throw you off, since making an army is a slow and steady process, and attacking is even slower. 
 Which brings up one thing newcomers should know, the game is very slow paced. Even if you (some 
 how) manage to get 20 troopers all attacking one city, it doesn't really feel like your crushing 
 an empire, and it's not that exciting if you're use to faster RTS like Age of Empires or something 
 like Starcraft.
  
  However if you don't mind the pacing the game is a lot of fun, it's good to know it sticks to the 
 name Civilization, so you can win in more ways then just destroying everyone. You can be diplomatic 
 and get elected president of the UN (When it's made) or spread your religon world wide, or even 
 own 60% of the land (Which can be done in a peacful way if you're good at trading) . It's nice to 
 know that since the military action isn't that great. The battle system is suppose to make sense 
 (According to the video review) but I still don't get it. There is a strenght number for each unit. 
 Warriors and earlier units have 1-4 and later on when you get muskets they have 8-12 or something. 
 However, somtimes it's possible for an axeman to attack and kill a US soilder, just if he's fought 
 a battle before. Which doesn't really add up, I'm pretty sure one guy with a full clip could take 
 down 10 guys with axes. 
  
  Everything else is Civ 4 is solid, and I really mean that, all the leaders have great facial expressions 
 so you can really tell when they like or don't like you. You'll actually enjoy making trades with 
 other leaders because they seem like real people, though they barley have any written dialouge 
 besides a few phrases the effect is still there. Try to keep in mind there's a lot to be done in 
 Civ 4 and all of it is fun. ANd there's one more bad thing I have to mention.
  
  Which is the lack of any explaination going through menus. You're suppose to figure out what these 
 letters next to world leaders when choosing them before a game mean. I can give you a quick and 
 very obvious start "Agg" means aggresive. But that's as far as I can get, I imagined the one that 
 was next to Ghandi meant peacful but it could mean "Religous" or anything else. But if you're dedicated 
 to the game and spend a few hours figuring stuff out you'll get good at it (And by a few I mean 
 8-10) . The game can be very fun after you get the some what enourmus leaner curve, but only if 
 you're a newcomer. If you've played Civ before, you'll love this one.
  
  One last note, you might want to get a video card with a lot of RAM and a good processor, unlike 
 myself. Since I can play Call of Duty 2 on high settings but on low settings if too much stuff 
 fills the screen it chops up a lot. And late in a game when there's a bunch of moving and attacks 
 or something going on, it'll take a few seconds to load after you press "End turn". 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Penguinn
Rating: 6
Date: Jul 25, 2006 6:28 am PT
Review:  I have played Axis & Allies, all of the Warcraft flavors, Age of Empire (s) and Mythology, so a 
 friend of mine highly recommended this game. After I saw that it recieved such a high score from 
 Gamespot, I thought, "How could I go wrong?" Right?
  
  WRONG!
  
  I played it over the weekend, and the learning curve is STEEP! The tutorial is bleek and barren, 
 and the civilopedia (in game dictionary) is worthless for gameplay tips or directions.
  
  I believe the common denominator of the people that love this game so much is that they have had 
 some exposure to the previous installments of Civilization, and so they are so giddy about the 
 'new and improved' version. Well, I am happy for them, but I am saying that the initiation process 
 to get into a fraternity on campus seems to be less grueling than trying to figure this game out.
 
  
  I was successful in completing 1.75 games, after 12 HOURS of playing time! And there just isn't 
 any compelling reason why I should stick with this game. It seems really in depth, but I don't 
 see the upside of learning this game. I like action! Keep things moving! Warcraft III is perfect 
 for this. Civ 4 feels like it's a game for people who have terrible Hand-Eye coordination, but 
 can strategize really well. Hence the reason that it is turn-based, and SO overwhelming with all 
 the crap you have to keep track of.
  
  Sims and the Tycoon series seem like they would be better to prepare your mind for such a lifeless, 
 yawn-fest. I have never played any of those games either, for that very reason. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zaman48
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jul 21, 2006 12:57 pm PT
Review:  If you're looking for a complicated turn-based strategy game that has so much depth you almost 
 never stop learning new stuff or learning new ways how to do stuff then this is the game for you.
 
  If you have played any of the past Civilization games and liked them just a little bit then this 
 is a must have. I must say though, this isn't too friendly of a game for a simple casual gamer. 
 This game is built for people who love to dive into games and see how many ways they can do something, 
 or for people who want to see how big of an empire they can build or how mean they can be to some 
 nation that is a whole lot weaker than they are. Like me, if you love a game that plays differently 
 every time you play it, then you ought to get this game.
  Best of all, it is made by the master himself, Sid Meier. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kingmario78
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 21, 2006 5:59 am PT
Review:  I can't say much, but if you were to buy Diablo II or this game, I would go with this game.
  -------------------------
  It takes time to get use to, but once you cover that, you've got your 
 self a game that won't go bad for a long time!
  
  ------------------------:
  Graphics -----------:1
  ------------------------:
  They (from my opinion) wanted to make it 
 very "high class" graphics but still keep a bit of "cartoon" to it, and they did a great job of 
 it!
  It looks alot like W. o. W graphics, altough much much better.
  
  -------------------------]
  Gameplay++++++] 2
  -------------------------]
  Game play is one 
 of the best things about a game, as most of you know, that "is" what makes a game, I differ from 
 the other "side"*, and this game on is a hardy meal when it comes to game play, trust me on this 
 one!
  It's hard to get the hang of, but once you know when/where to go, you've got your self one of the 
 best games in world...
  Also, there are about 18 Civilizations to play as, here are my favorite:
  Aztec,
  French,
 
  Greek
  and a few have more than one ruler you can play as.
  *"side"=people who thing graphics make a game. I spit on them! 
  
  ------------------------ {
 
  Sound======== {3
  ------------------------ {
  The music to this game is pretty good, mix native Indian and African music, it's good to listen 
 to to if you have nothing else...
  Now, this game has awsome sound (i. e. fights, etc...) , most things are fights and upgrages, and 
 when ever you get a new tech., there is a qoute narrated by Leonard Nimoy, and most of the split 
 screens for new ages have cool music too.
  
  ---|Scroll*******************|
  ---|Of***********************|
  ---|Credits*****************|
  
  + some cool stuff!
  
 
  My brother and his friend have this game too, his friend, knows what techs. to build when so he 
 can have gunmen when his enemies only have knights. Practice alot!
  
  [-- Credits -- ]
  To my brother, for buying me this game and to my old house on 499 college ave.... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wafflehead
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jul 16, 2006 3:58 pm PT
Review:  I remember checking up on this game before it was released. Screen shots, videos, previews, news, 
 forums, etc. I was very excited to pick up this game the day it came out. There was alot of hype 
 surrounding this game and many people said "don't believe the hype" and they still say it now till 
 this point. This is a masterpiece of a game that is highly addictive and will give you less sleep 
 at night. 
  
  Let's start with the gameplay. The gameplay of Civilization IV is simply put, flawless. People 
 have complained about bugs and random crashes and I have yet to experience any of it. YOU are in 
 control of an entire nation and it's cities and it's people all depend on you to make the right 
 decisions to reign over a successful empire. This is one of the few turned based strategy games 
 where you have complete control over every aspect of the game and that's what makes this game truly 
 immersive. There is always something to do in this game as it expands to new lands and as your 
 nation evolves through the ages whether it be researching new technology, taking over enemy territory, 
 building new monuments in your cities, or the other hundreds of other things to do while ruling 
 over your civilization. I can't say enough of how fun this game is in general but you can probably 
 get an idea by all the other positive reviews. 
  
  Graphics. I'm not going to lie, when I got this game I was pretty surprised at the rather weak 
 graphics at the highest video settings. But if your gameplay is that great, it weighs deeply heavily 
 over the graphics of this game. In the game you can use your scroll buttom to zoom in or out of 
 your screen. The more you zoom in, the more you can see the little details of your city , people, 
 and surroundings that you wouldn't normally see on the normal zoom settings. Additionally, the 
 music also stops playing when you zoom in the closest so you can hear the little sound details 
 of your civilization. If you choose to zoom out, you can practically see your entire nation all 
 in one peice and it really is quite astonishing. 
  
  The audio and music in this game is one experience like non other. There are tons and tons of beautiful 
 music played throughout different situations and times during the game and you never get bored 
 of it. I can't say enough about it, the music is just astonishing and is an experience you normally 
 wouldn't hear in any other turned based or real time strategy game out.
  
  One thing you'll never have to worry about this game is it's replay value. There are so many things 
 you can do, that you will come back to this game everytime. It is very fun and so far I haven't 
 gotten tired of it. And at this pace, it doesn't look like I will for quite awhile. 
  
  Overall, if you were to get just ONE game this year, Civilization IV has to be it. It covers just 
 about every aspect of building a civilization and keeping it civilized for many generations. This 
 is without a doubt, the greatest turn based strategy game I've ever encountered and is easily the 
 best in the series. The only game that I can see that will top this is Civilization V. Firaxis 
 and 2K Games have certainly outdone themselves again with this masterpiece. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: skillet27
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jul 14, 2006 8:05 pm PT
Review:  Civilization 4 is in my opinion, on the best strategy games out now. You start out with no money, 
 no knowledge of any other people, and not knowing what your future will bring. But at the end you 
 can become and great warlord, diplomat, or pushover. Civ 4 is a turned based stratagy game where 
 you control your civ of choice. You advance your civ by researching technologies that make up what 
 your civ stands for. Control nearly every military unit you can think of, jet planes, swordsmen, 
 marines, carriers, nukes, and many more. Culture plays a large role in civilization. Your culture 
 "borders", which also are the borders of your nation. If your boarders surround a other civs city, 
 the people will rebel and they will request to join your empire. Now for my negative comments (which 
 are few) . Make sure your computer meet the requirements of the game. Most of the time if you try 
 and sneak by with lower specs, it will lag and be extremely hard to play. Also i do not like how 
 in the modern eras, with many cities, civs, and units, the games slows down, this is understandable 
 but i wish it could be fixed. In conclusion, i think is a masterpiece of strategy and deserves 
 your attention. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: surenintendo
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 13, 2006 2:29 am PT
Review:  Okay, I have a confession to make; I've never played a single SINGLE civ. game in my life. And 
 after playing this AWESOME game, I knew that I missed something BIG before.
  
  Civilization IV, as the title says, this is the fourth installment of the Civ series. They're known 
 to be turn base strategy games. I am not the type to play turn base strategy games, so of course, 
 i didn't like it at first when compared to age of empires III. But after playing the easy piece 
 of cake tutorial, I WAS HOOKED! I've never tasted a game that allow you to control EVERY SINGLE 
 ASPECT OF BUILDING AND FOUNDING A NATION BEFORE! It's so so so so so fun doing that. And you know 
 what? --wait for it ---- IT HAS 6 VICTORY conditions! That's just awesome, since if you are the 
 person that doesn't want to fight, then you could just create the United Nations and let the people 
 vote you as the leader. OR if you wanna beat up some computer and people (online) then try a conquest 
 victory by overpowering them with your wit!
  
  The gameplay element is definitely a 10 out of 10, since it covers a lot of the civilization building 
 aspect that civ. games are known to possess. Like making routes from resources to resources, building 
 a court room to pwn those criminals, creating wonders to keep your people happy, getting or founding 
 a religion. Note that type of religions arent that all important, since they all have the same 
 effect. Basically, the diversity feature was put in so that you can compete with your foes to get 
 everybody else to convert to your religion. The benefit is to have stronger ties with your allies. 
 So much has been tweak. It's literally impossible for me to explain everything. EVEN THEIR MANUAL 
 IS ABOUT 310 PAGES! So much things, yet they make it easy to control and play around with.
  
  
  Graphics -- this game doesn't really emphasize. The animation and all is really great, but 
 it lacked detailed texture. I am not sure why the graphics aren't so good since there are more 
 than 20 people in the art department -- probably spent so much time making those AWESOME Wonder Movie 
 files! But it's non the less much better than age of mythology and such games like that.
  
  Sound --- well the MUSIC ARE REALLY GOOD. There are so many music files that it'll last you HOURS! 
 The music changes as you advance to different eras- i love that and you'll definitely appreciate 
 the them since it actually makes each era FEELS different! Also the gun sounds and swords hacking 
 and slashing sounds really cool too. Of course the game doesn't support surround sound. BUT SERIOUSLY? 
 WHO NEEDS SURROUND SOUND when playing these sort of games!
  
  Value --- EVERYthing this game has to offer. You'll come back to play this game quiet often. Each 
 of their matches are VERY long I tell you and it's just plain FUN! You'll never get bored!
  
  Overall this game just covers every aspect of building a nation and is reccommended since it 
 only costs 60 bucks Cnd dollars! You'll have tons of fun playing this game for sure!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: chrbje
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jul 11, 2006 5:09 am PT
Review:  No other game series has taken more hours from me than Civ.
  
  Since the first edition aages ago on the Amiga, this has been a serious timewaster for me, but 
 for reasons i guess.
  
  The latest title does the jobb well, sound, graphics everything seems pretty solid. Sure i could 
 have wished for yet more variation in the graphics and specially the sound becomes rather tiresome 
 after a while.
  
  The game feels rather new this time around, despite that there arnt really that many new features, 
 they are just better implemented it seems, and sure graphics are now 3D,, battle system has been 
 changed, not that much more advanced really, but kinda confusing for the older players since I 
 dont really see the benefit of changing stuff for that little a reward, its still chanse-stats-bonus, 
 they should have tried to bring more tactics into this part of the game a long time ago. I really 
 think they could have worked more on new gameplay features to bring the game to the next level, 
 to easy to just stockpile units and then just swarm your neighbor, unless he was stockpiling to 
 attack you he wont stand a chance.
  
  After all this time in civ I cant really play this game against AI anymore, the big thrill for 
 me is playing other humans. This part of the game is by no means as solid as the singleplayer experience. 
 Game sufferes from general connection, syncking and workflow problems that can be really frustrating 
 at times, plus the game really isnt mapped out for this kind of play since a game with several 
 human players usually take 6+ hours to get anywhere with,,,, but i still find joy in it and i really 
 hope future titles will go for a smoother multiplayer experience. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: falsabek
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jul 6, 2006 12:40 am PT
Review:  The best Strategy Game ever, it makes you feel as if you are a real president of any nation !!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!
 
  
  you start from the begining, you feel that as if you live inside your game. YOu feel that you really 
 are controlling a nation. You start have the sense of a king or president. 
  When you nation becomes powerful, at that moment you feel as if you are the most powerful man on 
 this planet. You can biuld or destroy nations, progress with your religion and more.
  
  The graphice are really stunning, this is the biggest change since Civ3. Civ4 is the most addicting 
 games. YOu can spent at least 10 hours playing and you cant stop the odds. I think that a game 
 which can make you feel as a king is the most sucessful game ever.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kool_Mo_Dee1
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 4, 2006 7:03 pm PT
Review:  Now dont get me wrong, this is a good game. But it can get really boreing really fast. I mean you 
 have to start as a cave man and work your way up for a few hours before you get nukes and tanks. 
 And realisticly unless you are some tree hugger or something, thats why you are playing. To nuke 
 France yes! Sorry, well yea. But when you do progress that far in the game it becomes awsome. And 
 there is other ways to beat the game like a space race, or through some sort of diplomacy, yea 
 yea yea. If you are thinking about getting it, do your self a favor and wait a little while for 
 the price to go down a little bit. Its good but not fifty bucks good. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: luigigreen
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jul 3, 2006 9:58 am PT
Review:  Civilization IV is the continuation of the popular strategy series, Civilization. It is a turn 
 based game in which you are the leader of a country and you control through out time, starting 
 from ancient times all the ay up to modern times.
  
  The gameplay of Civ 4 is phenomenal. It is amazingly in depth of how far you control your civilization. 
 You can choose to be war ruler or a peace ruler. You can build almost any building you can think 
 of, and almost every wonder of the world. You will never get tired of Civ 4 because every game 
 is different.
  
  The graphics of civ 4 aren't amazing. Don't expect to be shocked or awed by these graphics, as 
 they are probably a couple years old. But, Civ 4 is not meant to be graphically powerful, it is 
 meant to be really fun.
  
  The sound in the game is beautiful, from the theme musics of each time, the war sounds, to basically 
 peace sounds, such as people talking and birds chirping, are done really well. There is a great 
 orchestral opening menu theme that is just really captivating. The sound definitely adds to the 
 experience.
  
  The value of this game is really good. Not only os every game you play different, but there are 
 also scenario modes, such as WWII or the rise of Rome, to online play, in which you can lay up 
 to 8 players. You can play Civ 4 for a really long time and never get bored with.
  
  Overall, Civ 4 is the best game in the series. It does everything a good strategy game should do. 
 It has phenomenal, in depth grapihics, beautiful orchestral sounds, and amazing value. I can't 
 wait to pick up the expansion pack Civ 4: Warlords. I suggest you run out and buy this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fanis_gr
Rating: 9.3
Date: Aug 15, 2006 3:52 am PT
Review:  As a descendant of the best ever strategic game, Civilization 4 is... condemned to be an appreciable 
 game. But, it does not have serious changes concerning the Civ 3 or the Civ 2, which even today 
 I consider that it is the best game of series. Of course, the Civ 4 has better graphics and much 
 more realistic output of battles. But, it could have much more focus on diplomacy, with more choices 
 and possibilities, as well as the number of units, which is to limited. Also the battles are difficult 
 and the result unrealistic. For example, you can loose your cavalary or musketeer by a simple enemy 
 warrior. In any case, Civilization 4 is a game that the fans of the type MUST HAVE. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: snazzyman020
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jun 26, 2006 10:47 pm PT
Review:  Civilization IV is a great game by Firaxis Games. If you have played any of the previous Cilization 
 games, this is a great improvement. In the game they add some key new things, such as religion. 
 Although it wont play a huge part in the game, it is still cool to be able to choose. Since this 
 game is kinda a way of you changing history the religion aspect is cool (like the first time I 
 played as the Romans, my religion was Hinduism) . The graphics (if you have a good graphics card) 
 are very appealing. The sound is excelent. The reason i gave gameplay an 8 was because, after playing 
 Rome: Total War, I feel the Civilization team could have made the battles in the game like Romes. 
 I loved how you could control the battle, whereas in Civ IV you click your unit and attack the 
 enemy. A new thing about the fighting is the units (even if they are the same type can be different) 
 as in, you could have a warrior who has 3 stars in strength meaning he is very strong, or you could 
 have another warrior have (can't remember the symbol) improvements in attacking cities. Overall 
 the game is very good, but i wish the could have changed the battle structure more, so you could 
 have more control. Overall I highly recommend this game, and I personally can not wait for the 
 expansion, Warlords. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fortune99999
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 26, 2006 9:39 pm PT
Review:  This game is so addictive and fun to play with your friends or anyone. You get to build your own 
 civilization, you pick your leader like Washington, Ghandi, Montezuma, etc. Almost all well known 
 leaders. The gameplay and multiplayer is what makes this game such a masterpiece. You can build 
 world wonders like Mount Rushmore, The Collessuem, and many others. Basically you build up your 
 civilization and take out other civilizations, you build a military to take them out, you can have 
 almost any kinda of weapon you can think of used in ancient to modern times. You research techs 
 to have your nation far superior then the other civs. This game is one of the best strategy games 
 of all time, and its the best in the series so far. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DEM0NCHIEF
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 26, 2006 8:25 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay- THERE IS SO MUCH !!!!!!! (++++)
  Many Nations and races to be with different leaders which 
  changes up the gamplay dramatically 
 (++)
  Some games may take DAYS not hrs (-- )
  
  Graphics- From afar on my comp it looks very nice (+)
  Up close looked a little blocky but my 
 comp isnt the greatest so (-- )
  Nice Nuclear Explosion effects (++)
  
  Sound- VERY DRAMATIC soundtrack at certain points in the game (+++)
  Sound effects for guns and 
 cannons etc. are very nice (+)
  Wht else is there to say (?)
  
  Value- You could literally play this for YEARS to come (+)
  I think there are 18 different Nations (+)
 
  Almost every Nation has 2 leaders which changes gameplay drastically (++)
  SO MUCH REPLAY (++++++++++)
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Blaster2k7
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jun 26, 2006 6:15 pm PT
Review:  Civilization IV is a well designed RTS game. Unlike most RTS games, you don't have to destroy the 
 other opponent and conquer their land, although it's probably more satisfying for most people to 
 conquer lands. You can win a game in multiple ways. You can conquer everybody, you have to have the 
 best score when the time period is 2050 A. D., you have to control a certain amount of land, or you 
 can win the space award.
  Comparing this to Civilization III, the graphics have improved tremendously as well as the soundIf 
 you have really good specs on your computer, than this game will run really smooth and solid. But 
 you don't have to have a really good computer to run this game.
  Some of this game can get complicated for beginners. There are all kinds of otions and menus when 
 playing the game. If you are new to the game, I suggest you either begin at the turtorial or start 
 a game on the easiest difficulty. For veterans who just bought the game, it would be good to start 
 on noble.
  Different maps have different advantages for every player. The landscape really makes a difference 
 when your fighting someone or for your economy. Chose where you buil your cities wisely.
  All in all, a very strategic game with so many options on how to play it. Have fun with it and maybe 
 I might meet you online. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Redjack443
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jun 25, 2006 4:57 am PT
Review:  Gameplay: It's the classic Civ gameplay, with all the "unfun" elements taken out, and more realism 
 added in. And a spearman can only destroy a tank if the tank fought 15 spearman before.
  
  Graphics: It's nothing special but it gets the job done. If you're a graphics junkie you should 
 download the Blue Marble mod. It replaces all textures by NASA satellite photos. Actually you should 
 download the mod whether you're a graphics junkie or not. It is just that much better.
  
  Sound: The game has great music. Especially the main menu track sounds really good. The unit sounds 
 are good, but get a bit annoying if you have to move a lot of units.
  
  Replay: Endless. This game is re-playable until the day you die. Or until Civ5 is made. There is 
 a random map generator, with 21 map scripts, there is a map editor and you can mod the game to 
 your heart's content.
  
  Conclusion: If you like strategy games (and even if you don't) buy this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Geitsau
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jun 23, 2006 11:42 am PT
Review:  Gameplay:
  This game is incredibly fun. Though it has some flaws here and there, the gameplay is excellent. 
 You get your civilization to play with, and during the gameplay you advance from a bunch of cavemen 
 to a glorious empire (hopefully) . Whether you want to take an aggressive approach, or use your diplomatic 
 skills to achieve victory is up to you. There are also many other paths to victory. This is the 
 kind of game you just have to play "one more turn"... But, the reason this doesn't score a full 
 10, is because I think some of the options in this game are too slim, such as the civics. And the 
 relationship between science/production is bad, as the army you're creating is usually outdated 
 when it's finished. It's too easy to research.
  Thankfully, you can change about everything in this game if you've got some XML/Python skills. 
 But you don't really need those skills either, since there's plenty of modmakers on the Internet (www. civfanatics. com 
 is a darn good site) .
  
  Graphics:
  Not the best I've seen, I got to admit that. But it suits its purpose, and you never really feel 
 that there's lacking graphics in this game. The time that you most notice that the graphics aren't 
 superior, is during the combat scenes. These could do with a graphic overhaul. But it gets an 8, 
 since I love watching that intro movie.
  
  Sound:
  Great music in both the intro movie and the main menu. Each civilization's music suits its civilization 
 perfectly. But the regular in-game music gets on your nerves after not too long, unless you're 
 a fan of classical music. Which I am not. You get seriously tempted to turn off the music during 
 the course of the game.
  
  Value:
  This game has an EXCELLENT replay value. And if you get tired with the regular game, there's hope! 
 As mentioned before, this game is fully 
  mod-able, so there's always a new modpack ready for your amusement. These modpacks are usually 
 fairly easy to implant into the game, so don't worry about the technical stuff. This game is well 
 worth the $20 I paid for it! 
  
  Tilt:
  The best turn-based strategy game I've ever played. This game has all those details that makes 
 a strategy game just not good, but really superb. There's also a HUGE civilopedia, so should you 
 desire more background info on the units, leaders, civilizations etc, that's only one click away. 
 There's also an excellent Hot Seat feature which makes it possible to play with several friends 
 on one computer. If you have even the slightest interest in turn-based strategy games, (which you 
 probably have if you're reading this) then this is the game for you.
  
  Note on the difficulty: You can choose from a huge variety of difficulties, but due to the World 
 Editor you get seriously tempted to cheat once in a while, so I'll rate it Easy because of that. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: maddemios
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jun 23, 2006 10:09 am PT
Review:  I decided to get this game to see what all of the general hype was about. Normally Im not one 
 for Turn-Based Strategy. Im still not, however I feel I should rate this game accordingly with 
 an unbiased opinion -- 
  
  ------------------------------------
  Overall Gameplay: 10/10
  ------------------------------------
  The game starts out slow, and 
 then picks up rather fast. However, this game takes numerous hours to master. There is also the 
 fact that you can spend your whole day in one skirmish map. Automation was also implemented, and 
 is a great feature to utilize. Workers and be automated to fuel your cities, and make turns much 
 shorter. Over all there is so much micromanagement in this game, it is hard to keep up with. Ive 
 played some teal time strategy games where I thought micromanagement was crazy and this tops that 
 with no problem. 
  
  There a number of Great leaders to help with production of buildings, or general research. You 
 are able to stop general production on any building, trade with other players for allies and players. 
 The game also includes research types. There is nuclear warfare also featured in this game, when 
 the game gets to that point.
  
  ------------------------------------
  Overall Graphics: 8/10
  ------------------------------------
  This game is pretty, if you have 
 the right hardware to run it. Which is true with about every game. I more or less did not have 
 a problem running it since I built a new PC with: 2gigs ram, XFX 7900 GTX Card.
  
  ------------------------------------
  Overall Sound: 8/10
  ------------------------------------
 
  There was ambience, upgrading technology sounds, fighting sounds. However you really should not 
 allow the sounds debunk the overall game. They are there, they work, they are good.
  
  ------------------------------------
  Overall Value: 9/10
  ------------------------------------
 
  If you are a person that loves Turn-Based Strategy, then this is the game for you. It takes weeks, 
 and months in some cases to learn everything about the game and also to master playing the game. 
 This game does however tie historical things into it. So you are also getting a history lesson 
 about the buildings, some what of a crash course.
  
  ------------------------------------
  Reviewer's Tilt: 8/10
  ------------------------------------
 
  Since there is a fact that I do not play TBS games normally, I found this rather enjoyable if 
 I had numerous hours to play the game. Now, normally I do not touch TBS games however I felt that 
 this one is commendable. I may pick it back up in the future and play it again when I have the 
 time to.
  
  ------------------------------------
  Thank you for reading. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 106728
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jun 22, 2006 5:47 pm PT
Review:  Civilization IV continues the franchise responsibly, making gameplay rule tweaks while moving to 
 streamlined 3D graphics.
  
  1. Gameplay
  
  Civilization IV does away with many of Civ3 and Civ2's weaker rules. For instance, production can 
 no longer be switched from one project to another -- if you start building the Hanging Gardens 
 but another Civ beats you to it, for example, you're out of luck: you get some cash to compensate 
 you but lose all progress on your project. Similarly, culture is now more viable because it helps 
 to produce Great leaders, who in turn can aid you by quickly producing buildings or scientific 
 research. Diplomacy now allows rudimentary coordination between allies (as in Alpha Centauri, the 
 player can instruct his ally to attack a particular city) . Stacked movement is implemented and 
 makes managing hordes of units much more natural; while there are still too many units running 
 around for my tastes, they are easy to group, move, and manage. Further, upgrading units as technology 
 progresses is simpler than ever. 
  
  The downside to this ambitious game is that the player must be equally ambitious to get the most 
 out of it. Civilization IV will take hours upon hours to fully master. Granted, you can spend only 
 one or two hours to get the basics and play competitively, especially on lower difficulty settings. 
 But actually understanding what is going on is another story. In my most recent game, for instance, 
 I fielded thousands of strategic options, lost and reclaimed my capital, launched nuclear weapons, 
 and won by a narrow space-race victory. But what were my workers and city specialists doing? I 
 had them automated the entire time and never even had to stop to worry about what all of the specialists 
 in my 15+ cities were doing. What is the difference between a farm and a mine, practically? One 
 provides food and the other generates "production hammers," but what that translates into in terms 
 of practical gameplay, I have no clue. Fortunately the game allowed me to automate this confusing 
 procedure. (Even if I did understand it, the sheer amount of micromanagement would be overwhelming)
 
  
  Fortunately, beginners will be helped out at every turn here. Each improvement, wonder, and technology 
 can be moused over to describe its benefits, where it takes you, what units it will allow you to 
 get, etc. 
  
  A recurring problem with the Civilization series is back here, however. The AI still cannot really 
 decide if it is playing a game or acting realistically, as a real leader would. If it were playing 
 to win, every country would have ganged up on me as soon as I started building a space-ship (which 
 would soon allow me to win the game if I were allowed to launch it) . Indeed, in a multiplayer game 
 with human opponents, no one bothers to go for the space-race victory because it alienates the 
 building player immediately. But the AI is content to play passively, and tries to win largely 
 by building its own ship and leaving yours alone. This is in part the byproduct of weak military 
 AI; the computer still cannot mount effective campaigns on the lower difficulty levels, so why 
 would it want to? (The higher you go in difficulty level, the more AI units are strengthened, though, 
 so this weakness is countered, albeit somewhat cheaply) . 
  
  I'd like to see some fundamental concepts - such as the city, or the way armies are handled, or 
 the simplistic diplomacy and economics model, changed, though. They've been around since Civ2 and 
 should be revamped. Instead the improvements here are more evolutionary, so while the game is still 
 superb for newcomers, returning fans might want a little bit more novelty. Hardcore players, however, 
 will probably relish the new ruleset changes and subtle gameplay tweaks. 9/10
  
  2. Graphics
  
  Love it or hate it. I think they are serviceable and classy and tell you a LOT 
 of detail at a glance. Nice, streamlined interface. Ran well on my IBM Thinkpad 2Ghz Pentium M 
 with 512 MB Ram and a 64 mb video card. My desktop (2.8 GHz P4 with Geforce 5200 and 1 GB of RAM) 
 could not play it well however. Strange, and I don't think turn-based games should be so demanding. 
 9/10
  
  3. Sound
  
  Leonard Nemoy reads nice, sometimes humorous quotes as the player discovers technology. Sounds 
 and civilization-appropriate songs add some ambience. The fighting effects are also okay. 8/10
 
  
  4. Value
  
  For $40 you are getting a game that you will return to time and time again. It will take weeks 
 to learn and months to learn well. You can, at any time, learn more about the historical background 
 of every Wonder and improvement you can build via the built-in Civilopedia. Games can take 12 hours 
 but, in a testament to the time-tested Civilization gameplay, you probably won't care. 
  
  Also, the amazing Civ online community is a great place to read strategies, shoot the breeze or 
 find support if you run into problems. Visit www. apolyton. net/forums or www. civfanatics. com to 
 take part in some of the two best fan sites I know of. 10/10
  
  5. Tilt
  
  I'm a little disappointed that major changes aren't here, but this is an improvement from Civilization 
 III. Cavalry are no longer dominate; no one strategic resource is key; the game is easy on the 
 eyes; great people and religion and the new civic system add more options. Although the game adds 
 tons of new (and confusing) worker improvements, the automation allows the player to bypass that, 
 at least initially. One of the main reasons I enjoy Civilization is that it gets me thinking about 
 strategies even when I'm not playing -- should I try to convert the Romans to Judaism? Is it worth 
 adopting a state religion to gain an ally to the north but cause a war with a neighbor to the east? 
 You'll feel like a world leader making tough, controversial, dangerous, but ultimately rewarding 
 calls. 10/10
  
  ** I recommend playing on a Huge earth map. Be sure to download the 1.61 patch. 
  
  Overall, 
 Civ4 is a great improvement to the genre and the series. If this is your first Civ game, buy it 
 now! On its own this is probably the best strategy game ever made. Those judging Civ 4 in terms 
 of its pedesessors might have wanted a few more major changes but will undoubtedtly find the overall 
 package extremely appealing, rewarding, and downright enjoyable.
  
  A definite must-buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dilrod
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jun 18, 2006 11:11 am PT
Review:  Firaxis and Sid Meier's give us another rendition of a great turned based strategy game in the 
 Civilization series. This game is really in depth and will consume a great deal of time (if thats 
 what your looking for) . The updated graphics and game engine are a pleasant upgrade. If you love 
 world history then this game is for you. Play as one of a multitude of civilizations and try to 
 take over everything, or simply beat your opponents to be the first to discover certain technologies. 
 The battle system has been updated from past editions of the series and you will no longer have 
 the chance of an outdated warrior killing of your futuristic weapons. The only downside to this 
 game is really for beginners. Civilization IV has a pretty high learning curve and you can easily 
 find yourself losing quickly if you don't know what your doing. Once the learning curve is learned 
 though, you will find yourself spending countless hours on this game so be prepared with plenty 
 of snacks and your favorite energy drink! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GuardianSKnight
Rating: 8.1
Date: Jun 14, 2006 5:50 am PT
Review:  I was very exited when I first heard of the title, as a die hard fan of civ III, I was eager to 
 find out what they have renewed in this release. And indeed, when I first tried it, it was great, 
 to say the least.
  However, problems arose quickly. My computer wasnt cut out for the job (and Im talking about 
 1.7 GH processor and 512 MB of ram, which is not the newest in the market, but it certainly isnt 
 too bad) . I was able to play a bit, but even at reduced graphics; it crashed every time Ive built 
 a new wonder. So, obviously, I wasnt able to reach the later ages in the game and I cant recall 
 of finishing it once.
  For me it was a complete waste, first getting all worked up before the release, and then all the 
 fuss until I did get it. Im sure others have, and still are, playing and enjoying it. But Im 
 not a part of that group, and its aggravating. So let me use this stage and call out for all the 
 game developers to be more considerate of all those who cant afford a new PC every time a new 
 game is released.
  Overall it is a fantastic game, but its simply too much.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: BMWMotorSport
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 13, 2006 2:50 pm PT
Review:  I mean if someone would ever tell me that this game was fun, I would leagh at them, this is because 
 I like racing games and/or action. When I tried Civ III, I fell in love with the game. Then I got 
 Civ IV and this it turned out to be 100000.... times better. Then NFS MW came out and, being a 
 racing fan, I traded Civ IV for Most Wanted... The stuppidest thing I ever did, NFS died after 
 Hot Pursuit 2 ended and the underground series began. 
  
  So if I am telling you that this game is WAY better than NFS MW (being a racing game fanatic) , 
 this game must be that good. Don't make the same mistake I did. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: o_p_e_n_s_i_l_o
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 30, 2006 1:45 am PT
Review:  This game has everything you could want from a turn based strategy game. Not only is it more customizable 
 and mod friendly than most games, its not evil on your comp and has amazing replay value. Online 
 play has improved with patches, but is not the only reason to buy the game. The AI is magnificent 
 as usual, but most of all, the game is freaking addictive. really. you will love it to death. a 
 must buy for ANY civ fan and 99.9% of all gamers. You won't be disappointed (unless you dislike 
 3d graphics, awesome AI, good balance, and NUKING EVERYONE) . With the introduction of new leader 
 types (instead of just military leaders) and the ability to have multiple golden ages, AND OF COURSE 
 better ways to level up individual units, this is superior to civ 3 in every way. get it already 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DaemonRacer
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jun 6, 2006 12:49 am PT
Review:  This is a very enticing and entrapping game. It has evolved to include tangible and non-tangible 
 elements into its game play. What is new in this installment is more improvements for terrain (almost 
 too many) , non-usable terrain, trade/resources, great people, city health, and religion. 
  One of the main differences Civilization IV is the use of terrain features. The choices are varied 
 and can affect your strategy. Now, commerce, food, and production can all be individually addressed 
 with disadvantages and advantages that follow. It is possible to make a city that is all food production, 
 increasing available population for specialist creation. The downside is commerce and production 
 will be much slower. Your choices will now have a much bigger impact on your civilization grows.
 
  Hand in hand with this comes the new use of resources. Civilization III addressed prerequisite 
 resources for units and relationships to technology. IV ups the ante in requiring certain improvements 
 to be built to reap the benefits of these resources. Examples are camps for fur and deer, plantations 
 for bananas and incense, pastures for cows and pigs, and quarries for stone and marble. The resources 
 have to be contained within your borders to build improvements. These will result in commerce, 
 happiness, trade, city health, and production bonuses. Having access to certain resources can also 
 give reduced production times for certain buildings and wonders, and allow others to enhance their 
 affect on the local population. As long as you have a trade network (road and rivers) connecting 
 the improved resource and your cities, the benefit is there. The other factor affecting terrain 
 is that now some terrain is un-improvable and inaccessible. This in conjunction with the varied 
 resources available allows for players to try all sorts of strategy. 
  Third on the list of changes are Great People, Civics, and Religion, for they interact fairly close. 
 Great People are created by cities as they generate points and pass the required threshold. City 
 specialists generate points as do World Wonders (which can also give bonuses) . These will also 
 determine, in conjunction with buildings/Wonders what kind of Great Person is born. Note here that 
 each time a Great Person is born, the threshold increases. The specialized units can discover technology 
 outright or add huge amounts of research points. They can also become super specialists in your 
 cities, build certain buildings depending upon type of Great Person or create a Golden Age when 
 combined with different types of Great People. These units can make significant differences in 
 a game. 
  Civics and Religion can affect how many and how fast Great People are created. Certain civics will 
 give you added free specialists or allow no limits on now many are created. They can also give 
 fiscal and production advantages. With all the variations will allow for a player to freely experiment 
 creating some very unique results. Religion can give you bonuses in when combined with certain 
 civics for culture and production. Diplomacy with other leaders is affected by what religion you 
 and they follow. Without a religion, a city cannot build any temples or monasteries. You can also 
 expand religions by creating missionaries. And a city can have more than one religion. Which also 
 means more than one temple and monastery (one for each religion present) , which is good way to 
 create culture to increase you borders. 
  The game is easy to learn yet difficult to master all the nuances. Every game played has its own 
 unique flavour. The few problems noted are the sheer number of terrain improvements available, 
 which can make for some head scratching in determining which one is best. Keeping track of city 
 improvements is easier in that you dont have to shuttle between each city every turn, but harder 
 as once the message is gone, your reference is gone.
  The game is very refreshing in its play and the concepts put forward. The game has evolved a long 
 way from the simple expand, explore, and conquer game it started as. I dont think anyone in the 
 early 90s expected it to come this far and still be unique and thought provoking in its own way.
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: gamerdarren
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jun 4, 2006 5:23 am PT
Review:  Can be a very easy game at the start but with so much to learn civilization IV is a game that can 
 be that's difficult to master especially with every turn of difficultly your people become harder 
 to please and you have to make the most of every unit forcing you to act like a true leader making 
 pacts and agreements with other leaders to further benefit your empire but in the end the best 
 way to rule is with military power, that's what's it's all about for me.
  Not saying that there's other ways to win like untied nations vote and space race, i just enjoy 
 the power! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: quills_GW
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 2, 2006 8:31 am PT
Review:  well this is a great game.. nice graphics... and you need brains!
  i say this because 
  1) you really need to think how you are going to bring your civilization... you need to know how 
 to defend it.... how to bring it up and what are you goin to focus on
  2) its an extremly busy game.. you will be thinking all the time.... what to build next.. what religion 
 you want your civilization to follow... financial problems.... which other civilizations you have 
 to ally with as you need them to help you get what you want.
  3) every second of the game... you have a feeling of just blasting away your enemies. it is really 
 up to the players way of gaming. if the gamer wants peace until modern era. then you have to be 
 friendly with other civilizations . if you are a dominating person. every second of the game , 
 you will jst feel like blasting all your enemies in you way!!!!
  SO this is a really cool game ... real time strategy with lots of thinking... lots to manage... and 
 you wont get bored of it . !!!.. well see you online... and you will see what im made of .... training 
 for 3 months!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bokile2000
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jun 2, 2006 2:23 am PT
Review:  I really like this game, all new features are welcome...
  Sid You are the MAN!!!
  I really liked all new cultures, and 3d show...
  So far so good, intro is brilliant, menu is superb, gameplay 
 is just right. Everybody can play this game from 7 to 77 years, and it never bored.
  I recomennd this game to all strategs in the world, play it, love it, don't throw it. :P
  Civ3 is 
 good but this is better, the music in the game is fabulous, every culture you lead has it own music, which 
 change in time, BRAVO!!!!!
  You can easily play this game with your friends on LAN and have a lot of fun, just like me, i really 
 enjoyed when i declare war on my friend (he deserve it :P )
  Play it, enjoy it...
  Big hello from Serbia... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DLB2
Rating: 9.4
Date: May 31, 2006 6:17 pm PT
Review:  I've played all the Civ games that they get better with time! 
  THe work in Civ IV is immpressive, from the cool drop menus & tips to the 3D map & units; not to 
 mention the kickass audio (great menu track and map ambience) and cool zoom-in/out feature. I also 
 think the idea to choose unit promotions adds even more to the open-ended nature of the game. And 
 the unified unit 'strength' as opposed to attack/defense makes it easier to make the decision of 
 which unit to build in a specific situation I am still sucked in by the great gameplay. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Crimson_Raven
Rating: 9.3
Date: May 31, 2006 12:26 am PT
Review:  Since playing the last Civilization I have found the new one to be better on so many levels I don't 
 know where to start. 
  
  Lets start out with the basics. After installing the game I saw the option to run the tutorial. 
 Being a vetran to the game I decided to check it out first. This is a godsend to newcomers. You 
 open up with a starting map and good ol' Cid Meier comes on the screen. He walks you through step 
 by step on how to build a civilization (right down the keystrokes!) This tutorial is perfect for 
 the newcomer of the series. 
  
  After peddling through most of the tutorial I started up a new game and was greatly pleased with 
 the much larger selection of Civilizations and leaders. This game is all about bonuses. Not only 
 does your chosen tribe start with their custom attributes and special units but the individual 
 leaders (sometimes a civ can have more than one choice for a leader) have their own stats to bring 
 to the table. 
  
  Coming from Civ3 (a game that was taxing to play even at cheiftain level) you have what I call 
 the noobstart (also known as settler level) . I picked the Germans and started to work on my civ. 
 Getting underway I was expecting more of the same: more units, more technologies and more stuff 
 to confuse the player... I was plesantly surprised by the lack thereof. 
  
  True the game does have more of the forementioned but the pluses come from the way they are presented 
 to the player. Suggestions for units and technologies actually give you a fairly good idea of why 
 the AI chooses them for you. Another HUGE plus to the game is the locater that pops up for both 
 workers and settlers. Now you can find the best spots in which to set up towns, build mines, add 
 cottages (nice to see tiles with commerce boosts in the game too!) 
  
  The biggest oogling I did came when I started building my military. I gathered some units and sacked 
 a barbarian town and looked at my option screen to see a real gem of a surprise. Instead of my 
 unit going to veteran status I now had the option to "Upgrade" my unit with various enhancements 
 such as +10% strength, +25% when attacking cities and so on. Now the player can customize each 
 individual unit and continue to build them up just like an RPG with experience points. This really 
 makes things fun to set up specialized armies in which to dispatch your foes and on the defensive 
 side, repel intruders. 
  
  One element that had me a little worried when reading the previews was the integration of specific 
 religions into the game. This aspect just adds to the fun and intrigue of the game. With specific 
 religion you can get on the good side of your rivals if you happen to share the same belief system. 
 Likewise you can annoy them if you follow a "heathen belief". You can send missionaries to spread 
 the good word and win over neighboring rivals. 
  Another thing to add to the list is the introduction of specialized citizens. These guys can boost 
 a town by completing research on an undiscovered technology, trigger a golden age, create a work 
 of art to skyrocket your towns culture or even build specialized "wonders". 
  
  I know this sounds like a lot for anyone to digest but again Civilization 4 feeds you these things 
 in easy to digest bite sized pieces. The list of improvements over the others could go on for ages 
 but I strongly reccomend you pick up this title to see for yourself... Oh yeah and Leonard Nimoy 
 (Spock) does alot of the narration in the game (bonus!)
  
  If your looking for that great Historic Turn-Based Strategy game well here it is. One of the best 
 games from last year and I can't wait to see whats up next year. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Seraphim591
Rating: 6.6
Date: May 29, 2006 5:25 am PT
Review:  I love Civilization. The concept of the series.
  
  I've played everything since the II-nd installment. And this title adds little to the series, and 
 I honestly can't find the charm in it.
  
  Civ III was good, but I started noting regression already compared to Civ II, which, in my opinion 
 still owns the series.
  
  
  Gameplay - 6
  
  It kinda feels like a Civ game, so it's not bad. But I just can't feel the charm . That weird addiction 
 you got while playing the previous titles is gone here. What you get is something you already played 
 years ago, and the fancy graphics do nothing but slow down the game and add useless bells and whistles 
 that do nothing to improve the gameplay itself.
  
  I miss the simplicity of the II-nd title. The clarity: you saw what you had to see and nothing 
 more (At this point I'm going to suggest you buy Gal. Civ II, this modern day game, got the idea 
 right - while still looking like a 2006 game) .
  Here we have so much to keep track of and while there are strategical options previously not available, 
 they are not worth the cost: the impact they have on the gameplay is negative not positive.
  
  Graphics - 8
  
  I can't argue with something as obvious as this. The game looks beautiful. 
 But there are things I miss yet again from the II-nd series. The movies - I loved those cutscenes 
 with amazing sounds every time you built a wonder. For the second installment in a row we get animated 
 clips that lack the feeling like you've built a wonder. Also, cartoon-like animated rulers and 
 advisors nothing but images... please, can't you see Civ II got it right?
  
  Ok, the graphics are good - but are they something that a strategy game needs so badly? I love 
 beautiful graphics, but it's my opinion that overdoing it with 3D is not good for the game itself.
 
  Nice job, but I don't play strategy games for their looks...
  
  Sound - 9
  
  Pretty sweet. The intro music alone is enough to throw free points in this department. Weirdly 
 enough I have a problem in the game, that the music is sometimes lacking and choosing manually 
 a music folder will result in that folder alone being played. Meaning If I choose a era theme, 
 I'm stuck with it.
  But still, it's just a bug and the music and sounds themselves are beautiful.
  
  Value - 6
 
  
  Not worth the hype and unless you're a newcomer or a serious fan, this game shouldn't grab your 
 attention. 
  It's not all bad because the replay value is huge if you happen to dig it - so give it a try if 
 you can afford it.
  Afterall the high scores this game keeps getting have to be worth something - right?
  
  Tilt 
 - 6
  
  And average game. It's great if you take the title by itself, but I can't. I've played all but 
 the first installment, and I can't help but to compare them all. This game brings very little new, 
 but a whole lot of old. And that new doesn't offer enough juice for me to spend hours and hours 
 replaying something I already did 10 years ago.
  
  As a series I expect games to improve the old formulae or create a new one with a strong connection 
 to the previous one.
  This game barely changes the old formulae and throws nothing but small hints of a new one. I can't 
 love a game that does that....
  
  
  Also, a game that actually had me wait months to play because it needed a better rig than I had 
 a few months ago doesn't grab me. Not because I don't believe in technological advancements, but 
 because I would not expect a "Turn-based" strategy game to push my computer till it starts smoking...
 
  
  I hope future strategy game developers actually try to make a lovable gameplay instead of flashy 
 graphics that actually do very little to impress anyone these days... strategy games aren't going 
 to win the best visual game of the ages award... stop trying, and make a polished gameplay instead!!!
 
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: papanoel123
Rating: 9.9
Date: May 28, 2006 12:53 pm PT
Review:  I just picked up this game and wow. I can't put it down and i'm even surprised that i am doing 
 this right now. The graphics are amazing and i can't wait until i get th expansion that is supposed 
 to come out soon. I really want to go and play it . Im addicted. My favorite civilization is the 
 Russians. If you are actually weird enough to read this review, then you should drop your laptop 
 (not literally!) and go to your local gamestop and buy this amazing game. It is truly superior 
 to the previous Civilization and it is awesome. Hoozah!!
  
  All righ I'm done. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: titledlive
Rating: 8.9
Date: May 24, 2006 2:44 pm PT
Review:  If you liked the other Civilization games, you will like this one as well. Graphically I think 
 it is a vast improvement on the previous games; they did a really good job at implementing 3D into 
 this game for the first time, making it seem more alive and realistic. It has some of the best 
 interface I have seen in a PC game that makes it fairly straightforward to work.
  
  Although game play is very similar to the last game, I have had much more fun playing it than the 
 last few versions. It is one of those games that can get you hooked for hours, however it is also 
 fun to play for short periods.
  
  I am looking forward to the expansion pack that is coming out later. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: halflingomega
Rating: 10
Date: May 21, 2006 8:17 pm PT
Review:  This is the best game I have ever played! The have successfully fixed all of the complaints I had 
 with the third installment . . . and much, much more:
  
  - 'Stack killers' put an end to the 'stack of doom' strategy.
  
  - Fewer cities are needed 
 (and, in fact, the game really penalizes for constructing too many cities) .
  
  - Cities can be 'specialist' cities instead of having every city be the exact same.
  
  - The 
 Wonders are no longer as powerful, so even if one civ has control of most of them, it is still 
 possible to play against them.
  
  - Different game lengths mean it no longer takes 20 hours to play a single game... You can set 
 it to a short game and play a game in an afternoon, or set it on 'epic' or 'marathon' and play 
 for 40 or 50 hours on the same game.
  
  - Multiplayer has been greatly improved too.
  
  All in all, this is the greatest game I have played to date. I can't wait for the expansion. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JaMeS4418
Rating: 9.7
Date: May 17, 2006 8:52 am PT
Review:  If you value sleep, family, social life, etc. than this game is not for you. This game is soooo 
 addicting that I literally stayed up until the sunrise. Its original and revolutionary gameplay 
 doesn't stop. Now on to the review.
  
  GRAPHICS: Pretty good much better than the civ 3 graphics. About as good as the graphics can get 
 on this kind of game
  
  GAMEPLAY: As I said before astounding. Although it can seem complicated and confusing at first 
 you just have to keep playing. The only real difficulty I experienced was the combat. If you've 
 played civ 3 you might have had your tank beaten by a spearman. The military system is usually 
 partisan when the odds are in your favor (My attack helicopter was killed by a samurai) .
  
  SOUND: Kinda African music (which really isn't that bad) and Leonard Nimoy recites these strange 
 quotes everytime you learn a technology.
  
  OVERALL: This is still and will always be a great game to a great series. Some people feel that 
 civ 4 doesn't feel like civ 3. BUY NOW!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!
  
  http://www. gamespot. com/pc/strategy/civilizationiv/show_msgs. php? topic_id=m-1-27952816&pid=919352 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Holadrim
Rating: 10
Date: May 11, 2006 5:11 am PT
Review:  Ok, I must confess that I have never played one of the other Civ games but I have always like it 
 from afar. This game can be described with one word: its addictive! And then I mean really addictive! 
 You can play for hours and hours on, and you don't get tired of it a sec. But in the beginning 
 I found it pretty difficult plus that I didn't have the energy to watch the looooooooong tutorial. 
 But hey, I normally don't like tutorials or intro booklets. But sometimes reading them will help 
 a lot. But this really is the only annoying part. Even though its sounds like that should take 
 it down a point, but I don't think it does. The unique game-play (okay there might be something 
 close to it.) , the old-school turn-based time-flow, the realistic movement with one and on turns 
 and of course the option to create your own world along with your own people. Oh man I have really 
 fallen for this game, because I have always liked games that you can play on and on and on. This 
 is a game every strategy-fanatic, like myself, should have in there collection.
  
  Over and out from Holadrim.. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sprinkjm
Rating: 9.6
Date: May 9, 2006 6:17 pm PT
Review:  This is about the only PC game I play until total war 2 is out. This game has had me hooked since 
 the first civ came out. i have played all for of sids versions and all other off beat variations, 
 and feel this is by far the best yet. Never before this game has any other been so intense yet 
 so well thought out. Nothing can compare. I just wish that i knew how to apply the downloads from 
 gamespot for the game to the game. If anyone knows and can help or just wants to talk about the 
 game or other games please e-mail me at sprinkjustin@yahoo. com 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tiefster
Rating: 9.8
Date: May 7, 2006 1:06 pm PT
Review:  The best Civ game to date. Even though all the changes do not satisfy me, they certainly exceeded 
 expectations. Civ gamers will finally be able to have that constitutional monarchy or a socialist 
 government. The reigions are rather useless depending on what civics you have but they add some 
 more realism o the game and make your nation seem more believable. I'll admit not having seperate 
 defense and attack points is quite disappointing and there is still the annoying problem of archers 
 defeating tanks but it doesn't happen as often. The AI seems to have become dumber at easier difficulties 
 of the game but its ok once you start playing on higher levels. This game is one of those games 
 that you go back to again and again no matter how old it gets. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: millinnium
Rating: 9.1
Date: May 6, 2006 11:34 pm PT
Review:  Graphically intriguing and addictive gameplay, even the music sets you in the mood to play this 
 game. The sheer limitless possibility to achieve world domination allows flexibility in gameplay 
 to suit game player's personality, or just to try a different way of winning! Best yet, i am able 
 to play Civ 4 at a reasonably pace and graphics on what i would term a "low end machine" in this 
 day in age, unlike an increasing number of games out there in the market today, that requires high 
 end processor and graphics power to fully appreciate the game's featuers.
  
  I wonder how the expansion pack will improve on.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Raiden_976
Rating: 9.3
Date: May 4, 2006 1:37 pm PT
Review:  Well , I have to be honest from the first click it was pure love!! 
  This game is so fun and involving you just want to stay hooked to it for days and days. My first 
 contact with the Civilizations series was rather bad , i did not liked it .... But this Civilizations 
 4 was a major blow to my head! I was not expecting such immersing game .
  Good things about it is: Its new and improved graphics ( although they could be better) , the sound 
 is good and with the correct languages to every nation , you can lead your nation to whatever destiny 
 you wish thus choosing its religion ; politics; etc... also a quiet dynamic style of play. The bad 
 things (well nothing is perfect) : The game might seem hard to new players how never heard or played 
 the Civilizations series , there is some historical flaws and some units needed to be a bit more 
 like their nation.
  Overall its a game worth playing , if you are a fan of strategy ... then this is a "do not miss!" 
 kind of game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sda100175
Rating: 9.7
Date: May 3, 2006 12:16 pm PT
Review:  Since Civ II, the series has been hands down my favorite PC game franchise. I've probably wasted 
 more hours on it than all other games combined. Civ II was an addiction, Civ 3 was a disappointment 
 until Conquests, which was one of the best expansion packs ever made. 
  
  Now, Civ IV *easily* takes the crown for best of the series. It smartly builds upon the new features 
 added in Civ 3, removes stuff that used to be a pain, and adds fun new features. Soren Johnson 
 said it was "1/3 old, 1/3 modified, and 1/3 new":
  
  1/3 old: the premise of the series is the same. Build cities, units, improvements, movement points, 
 improve land, etc. Diplomacy is much the same as Civ3, as is the culture system.
  
  1/3 modified: resource system greatly expanded, combat tweaked, upkeep costs changed to rely on 
 number of cities, tech tree has 'or' paths, siege units prevent stacks of doom, etc.
  
  1/3 new: religion, trade routes, unit promotions, health system, civics
  
  It's amazing that 
 all of the new additions add to the game. Religion is useful in many strategies, particularly cultural 
 and diplomatic victories. Civics allow you a lot more flexibility in persuing your goal, instead 
 of hardwired government choices. Trade routes add depth and options for building your economy. 
 Unit promotions allow you to customize your armies for a purpose (specialization is a theme throughout 
 the game) . And the health system gets rid of the awful pollution mechanic and replaces it with 
 something fun and interesting.
  
  The modifications really make the game more fun, also. Resources were a fantastic addition to Civ3, 
 and here they go full blown. In addition to enabling you to build certain units, resources can 
 also improve health conditions and add to overall happiness. Also, the city maintenence is much 
 easier to figure out now, and the ridiculous corruption aspect has been completely removed.
  
  The negatives about Civ4 are mostly technical. The early revs of the game were unstable and 
 not at all prone to CTD. The latest patch (1.61) seems to be pretty stable - no crashes yet, although 
 it still will freeze for short periods of time. In the nit-picky column, the Civilopedia is pretty 
 poor...
  
  But that leads into the incredible customization options of the game. Modders can change literally 
 anything, from just adding a new unit or building, to entirely modifying the core rules of the 
 game! There are great Civilopedia mods out there (check out civfanatics. com) .
  
  Civ 4 is the ultimate Civ. I can't fathom what Firaxis will come up with for Civ 5, but it will 
 be hard to top this one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gallonegro1502
Rating: 8.9
Date: Apr 29, 2006 7:05 pm PT
Review:  I hated Civ III with a passion, probably because I am a casual Civ gamer who never has delved too 
 deeply in the different strategies of the game. However, Civ IV made some key adjustments that 
 to me made the game more accessible (esp. the UI and city screens) and eliminated much of the frustration 
 of playing (we now have real borders and can have a closed border policy) . So while I'm no better 
 at playing the game I am having more fun because I can follow the action easier and learn more 
 quickly from my mistakes. I think the upcoming expansion pack will force me to keep this game on 
 my hard drive forever. If there is a Civ V I don't think they can do it much better than this one! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: J1M
Rating: 7
Date: Apr 29, 2006 1:28 pm PT
Review:  Brings nothnig new to the series. A very solid graphical update and that's it. Alpha Centauri remains 
 the best Civ game.
  
  There is really nothing here you haven't done before and the differences between leaders are fairly 
 microscopic compared to the ideologies of Alpha Centauri which provided interesting choices and 
 very different strategies of play.
  
  I'm disapointed that some strategic aspec was not added to the combat. It is really sad that after 
 all these years we are still moving one little guy onto one little square and watching units fight 
 it out one at a time or destroying every improvement a city has and then letting a city starve 
 because that is somehow faster than taking a city by force due to stacking defensive improvements. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Franco_atirador
Rating: 9.6
Date: Apr 28, 2006 1:15 pm PT
Review:  Well , I have to be honest from the first click it was pure love!! 
  This game is so fun and involving you just want to stay hooked to it for days and days. My first 
 contact with the Civilizations series was rather bad , i did not liked it .... But this Civilizations 
 4 was a major blow to my head! I was not expecting such immersing game .
  Good things about it is: Its new and improved graphics ( although they could be better) , the sound 
 is good and with the correct languages to every nation , you can lead your nation to whatever destiny 
 you wish thus choosing its religion ; politics; etc... also a quiet dynamic style of play. The bad 
 things (well nothing is perfect) : The game might seem hard to new players how never heard or played 
 the Civilizations series , there is some historical flaws and some units needed to be a bit more 
 like their nation.
  Overall its a game worth playing , if you are a fan of strategy ... then this is a "do not miss!" 
 kind of game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: alex007smith
Rating: 8.9
Date: Apr 28, 2006 12:40 pm PT
Review:  
  I have never played any of the previous versions of Civ, but it sure seems like I started on the 
 right one. I tried the demo and went to buy the game the next day. 
  
  For a micro-managing nut like me the game is great - tweaking this or that in every city almost 
 every turn - but there are many different options for automating much of that if you don't enjoy 
 sweating the details. 
  
  To really know all the ins and outs of the game takes a while (for a newbie to the series) but 
 there is a lot of streamlining to make the task not too daunting. I like the variety of the leaders 
 and their special abilities, but do wish there were more unique units for each civ. But here's 
 the good news - you can make your own. The moding possibilites are literally endless and I have 
 already tried some really good ones.
  
  Variety of maps and difficulty settings make for lots of possibilites. Sound is great (w/ authentic 
 unit acknowledgements in the appropriate language) . My only real complaint is the end game can 
 often be a bit tedious. (though I haven't really tried to use nukes yet) All in all a terrific 
 game though - probably on my all time top twenty (maybe into top 10) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rdnp2035
Rating: 8.2
Date: Apr 26, 2006 4:10 pm PT
Review:  I think Civ 4 is a little over rated. It is impressive. It looks cool, the graphics are not a huge 
 part of the action. The play is slick. But there is not a lot of options for personalization. You 
 can go down tech paths, and you can focus on a particular victory option. But.. it kind of feels 
 like you are just filling in the blanks, without much room to make it your own style. 
  
  And there are some AI things that screw up the vibe. Like having workers upgrade your roads to 
 railroads, for faster movement around the map. You have to click each individual square to be upgraded, 
 as opposed to being ble to use a specific automated upgrade process.
  
  And the automated improvements feature that you can use are seriously stupid. I'll have a perfectly 
 product town on a square, and for some reason the system will want to place a farm or a windmill 
 there. If you allow your workers to go into auto mode, they will rebuild a third of you civilization, 
 most of which was doing just fine. 
  
  Stuff like that deflates the experience. But it is still a solid piece of work. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: yen888
Rating: 9.1
Date: Apr 26, 2006 11:30 am PT
Review:  Civilization IV is a turn-based strategy game where you command a civilization from its beginnings 
 to ... well when the game ends (or the end of time) ...
  
  I personally have never played any Civilization games, but I got a demo of this one and after playing 
 that over and over again until I knew where everything happened I decided to buy it.
  
  When I got it I was like wow, the instruction manual is like an inch thick! Anyway after my fit 
 over the instruction manual I installed and for a 1.7 GB game it installed very quickly. I loaded 
 it up and to my horror saw that there was no story mode, all you can do is random matches against 
 the CPU/person. There is also other stuff like mods and world builder, but they look complicated. So 
 I thought oh well the game still should be good and it was.
  
  After a month or so of playing it nearly non-stop I started to get bored of it. Defeating countries 
 over and over again, so I stopped playing it for a bit. This was about the time I read a review 
 that said, "be expected to be addicted for the next 30 years" and I was like thats a good joke! But 
 because of that review I went back on it and enjoyed it. It's one of those games that you play 
 for a while then leave for a while, then go back to.
  
  Now about the game itself. The graphics were ok they were 3D, but had some blockiness to them. 
 I'm sure it wont take that much computer power to get really good graphics as not everything on 
 the map moves at once.
  
  The units are well matched and if you train up the old unites, they can even beat the new one because 
 of the good experience promotions.
  
  Overall this is a very good game, that may or may not take up all of your time. It's defiantly 
 worth a look though. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: neatfeatguy
Rating: 8.8
Date: Apr 25, 2006 12:39 pm PT
Review:  I have never played a Civilization game before, until I got my hands on the fourth installment 
 about 5 months ago. I wasn't quite sure what to expect, but I had a few ideas on what I wanted 
 to see.
  
  The main reason as to why I even bought the game, sad to say, was from the television commercials 
 that I saw. I should have paid more attention when I grabbed Civilization 4 off the shelf and realized 
 it was a turn-base stratagy (TBS) game and not what I was expecting at all. Nevertheless, I bought 
 the game and I actually found it that Civilization 4 wasn't as bad as I thought it was, once I 
 realized it was a TBS.
  
  As stated before, I had never played a Civilization game before; So, learning to play this one 
 was fairly simple. Also, the fact that you can greatly vary the difficulty level makes playing 
 much more enjoyable. There is nothing worse when trying to learn a complex game like Civilization 
 4, only to find out that the easy difficulty level is too hard for a first time person, leaving 
 you feeling cheated and causing you to turn the game off - never to play it again.
  
  If you grow tired of ever taking on the computer, and you have internet connection, jump online 
 and take on some real people. You are given a variety of ways to play online: quick matches that 
 can go as fast as 30 minutes to drawn out matches that can last up to 8-10 hours. You can even 
 play via email; although I'm not entirely sure how well that method works.
  
  The graphics are well enough to keep your attention and to not leave you thinking they are dated. 
 Sound effects are good and the music is a bit on the dull side, but it does a good job of adding 
 to the atmosphere.
  
  You could build a single map and replay it over and over again, and the game would never end exactly 
 the same. So the replay value of this game is very high, as long as you greatly enjoy turn based 
 games.
  
  When you play single player, be sure to learn how to get a helping hand from computer controlled 
 characters. There is nothing worse then trying to take on two or three different nations as they 
 gang up on you. 
  
  This is the only bit of advice I give to new players starting to learn Civilization 4. Learn how 
 to make friends with people/computer players that you are going up against. You can please them 
 all, but having at least 1 person to help you fight others is a great resource. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ganeshs86
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 25, 2006 5:55 am PT
Review:  this is ine of the better starategy games in the market today. It happens to be the first game in 
 the civilization series i have played But loved it so much that i brought the older versios of 
 the series too. Its brilliant as u can adopt different methods of conquring the world/U can conquer 
 it by spreading culture or force the world to bow to ur wishes by using brute force. At higher difficulties 
 the AI is very tough to play with. We can also follow different paths of research to follow and 
 does not fail to provide a new twist to game play each and ever time u play. Add to this the various 
 leaders religions types of landscapes and u have a recipie for a winner 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mohandas_Gandhi
Rating: 9.3
Date: Apr 25, 2006 5:31 am PT
Review:  If you're failing in history, it is becasue you do not have this game. If you're not the nerd of 
 your world history class, you do not have this game. If you don't know who any world leaders are, 
 you do ot have this game. If you've never even heard of Bismarck or Peter the Great, you do not 
 have this game. This game has really brought my grade up in Geography so much, that I have passed 
 the 100 percent zone. It is not only a really addictive game, it gets you thinking: this game feels 
 so real I know realize I should never run for president. The only thing I would say is a flaw in 
 this game, is that they put Frankiln D. Roosevelt as one of the American leaders. That guy was 
 a commie, I don't care what you say! They should've put Eisenhower instead of him, he was the last 
 good president we ever had! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lupus_mortis
Rating: 9.4
Date: Apr 24, 2006 11:47 pm PT
Review:  I have managed to play the whole civ series and every step they take seems to be closer to perfection 
 ..... An amazing game from all aspects.
  GRAPHICS
  What can i say about graphics just astonishing and nice zoom option in the battle.
  SOUND
  
 Sometimes usual but almost everytime on spot...
  .... loved the diplomacy part plus city layout.....
  GAMEPLAY
  But where the games shows it 
 guts is in gameplay ..... play it and you will know what i mean...... Time is no more an ally when 
 you play......... YOU JUST WaNT MORE. Constant evolution of your civ will not let u take a breath..... you 
 say another 10 min but without knowing you have already spent 1 hour! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: big_star612
Rating: 9.8
Date: Apr 24, 2006 8:29 pm PT
Review:  I picked CIV IV off the shelves along with Age of Empires 3 and was addicted to CIV IV right from 
 the start. THe Main menu music was even awesome. They really did a great job on this one. The gameplay 
 is far superior to the last 3 CIVS, don't get me wrong those were some of the best and most addicting 
 games for their time. This one does the same and gives the lasting appeal to keep you addicted 
 for hours and hours. While the graphics are ok and they could have done better with that department, 
 I am still impressed and the graphics have never been a big part of Civ games in the first place. 
 Then there is the added fact that I am getting sick of games that only enhance the graphics and 
 not the gameplay (Age of empires 3) . THIS HOWEVER took a different route and took care of a lot 
 of the micro-management issues that you used to have and made the game a lot more enjoyable. IF 
 you haven't checked this one out yet and you are a CIV fan PICK THIS ONE UP! If you are deciding 
 between AOE 3 and CIV IV WITHOUT A DOUBT HANDS DOWN CIV IV should be your pick. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: essereetico
Rating: 3.2
Date: Apr 21, 2006 5:41 am PT
Review:  Few words have to be said on this game.... NOTHING IS NEW !!!!
  You can upgrade your units in a personalized way when they get experience and that is good, BUT 
 UNIT TYPES ARE REALLY FEW at my advice.
  
  I liked and played a lot CIV 3, but this game is disappointing to me.... a little better graphic, 
 and NOTHING OF NEW !!!! i can't find nothing of innovative just minor features that make this game 
 a new version of civ 3 with better graphic that run not so smooth too and not so great too.
  
  The best thing of this game is the intro tribal music... for all the rest is good but ALREADY 
 SAW.
  
  If you never played a civilization you could like this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sintegra97
Rating: 9.8
Date: Apr 19, 2006 8:00 pm PT
Review:  I had not played a Civ game before civ 4. I missed out. This is the best stratigy game ever made, 
 nothing taken from the previous games. I have spent a ton of hours on this game and it is yet to 
 dissapont. It is the most open ended game ever, has endless replayability and is endlessly enjoyable. 
 the different victory options keep you comming back. This game also give the player a hitsorical 
 perspective that cannot come from any other medium. This game finally gives the player the option 
 to effectively and effecently manage any senario of developing a world based on curent written 
 earth history. By saying that i do not mean that the europeans have to discover the new world or 
 that even a new world has to exist. The mod comunity adds to the replayabilty. Over all increadable 
 game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Vamptech
Rating: 8.8
Date: Apr 19, 2006 8:00 pm PT
Review:  Finally after all these years and many hours on Civ III, we finally have a new installment of a 
 truelly classic series. To start off, you must get this game. Beg, steal, or barrow this is a must 
 have for any gammers collection regardless of preferred genre. Wether it be the gameplay, easily 
 created mods, self modding, or multi-player there will be something you enjoy in this game. New 
 3d worlds add an entirely new look to a game they needed to change nothing to be worth the asking 
 price. Graphically Civ has never been cutting edge or taxing to even a lower end machines but the 
 changes that have been made are many and have only improved the quality. Sound can get a little 
 repetative but as many hours as youll spend grinding it out against Npc or other human players 
 it is only to be expected. While i personally cant finish a game without jumping into the world 
 editor and punishing the Npc miscrients, it is probably very fulfilling to win legit. you will 
 love this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jbernhard99
Rating: 9.4
Date: Apr 17, 2006 10:43 pm PT
Review:  I played all of the preceding versions of Civilization, and it's still an easy call: Civ4 is hands 
 down the title's best iteration. An elegant interface, smooth graphics, fleet pacing (even in conquer 
 the world-mode) and a huge variety of civilizations and technologies to experiment with makes this 
 game imminently replayable again and again.
  
  Even though the game is still best in its hot-seat format, they've added a nifty multiplayer version 
 as well as a real-time version that approximates real time yet retains the game's carefully paced 
 hot-seat theatrics. The whole you-go, I-go, you-go, I-go see-saw in previous versions gave the 
 game a very strategic feel. All of the gameplay versions in Civ4 maintain the initial release's 
 climactic emergence as the premier strategic simulation in computing. 
  
  Anyway, it's a great game. I heartily recommend it to any gamer, and specifically and unequivocally 
 endorse the game to any gamer who enjoyed any of the previous Civ versions. This game builds on 
 that heritage and foundation with a smooth gaming experience that is never quite the same, no matter 
 how often you play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: s7efi
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 17, 2006 4:01 am PT
Review:  This game is absolutely wonderful, i loved civ 3, but this one is absolutely fantastic !!! It has 
 everything a good game needs, it's got a lot of options, you can make history the way you want 
 it to be ... extremely diverse, so getting bored is totally out of the question. There is no one 
 to whom i would NOT recommend this game !! It was worth the wait and more than that. It gives 'strategy' 
 games a whole new meaning, and the expansion packs make it even better. The gameplay is awesome, 
 the graphics are wonderful, the sound and the music is so well chosen that it makes you feel like 
 you've stepped into a whole new world, where everything is made according to your will. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lordchaos1
Rating: 9.8
Date: Apr 14, 2006 6:27 pm PT
Review:  This game as I said is probably the greatest strategy ever. Why? You may ask, the answer is simple 
 because it has never been done before, it's new and very addictive. The game unlike most other 
 RTS's exercises your strategy muscle with maybe an exception to Total War and Rise of Nations. 
 It has superb graphics for the genre but its not quite SW: EaW or AOE 3's level. but it has something 
 that hard to describe that puts it so far above the rest, it has the essence of real strategy. 
 The 18 nations are quite a good choice but there a few greats that got left out. The game is overall 
 very rewarding and it will keep you playing for hours on end. I forgot the multiplayer part, so 
 here goes, there are 5 multiplayer game types in which you may access any of the games maps. the 
 modes of multiplayer are : LAN, Online/Internet, Hot seat, Email and direct IP. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: charlie345
Rating: 9.3
Date: Apr 14, 2006 12:00 pm PT
Review:  is so cool it is my firts time in this series and ithought it was cool how you go through time 
 and do wars and mske your people advance into diffrens era of time and you watch them grow as if 
 you were a god or somthing in this game and you make most of the descions but i wish we could of 
 got to see them advance a little further than we did in the game and a little bit faster i thought 
 i was just to lsow to see your people advance and the world history is good and pretty acurate 
 the gampplay is really good but once you give the orders it does get tiressing if you just watch 
 them thats not that much fun and im not much of an rts fan so i wont hold hat against it grapihcs 
 are just great seeying the cu\ites and the peole in all the glory and the osund is exelent is got 
 sot of dawn of time thing oging on for it and thats charlie word 
::::::

::::::
UserName: massofgas
Rating: 9.4
Date: Apr 14, 2006 12:48 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay:
  -The BEST turn-based strategy game there is.
  -HIGHLY Addictive
  -If you survive the steep learning curve you will really enjoy it
  -Quicker games are a huge 
 plus as civ3 games used to drag on for many hours.
  -Games still can be tedious and slow especially in the endgame
  
  Graphics:
  -Civ4 has gone 
 through a complete 3D graphic overhaul.
  -Uses same 3D engine as Sid's Pirates!
  
  Sound:
  -The decent music score matches your civilization's time period ie. Medieval music for 
 Medieval age.
  -Nice voice-acting behind the guy who guides you throughout the game 
  
  Value:
  -Excellent replay value
  
  OVERALL:
  Must have for Civ fans and may be overwhelming 
 for newcomers to the series but if you give it some time you'll never regret getting it.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: taofsf
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 14, 2006 10:19 am PT
Review:  Very little can be improved. Any time a new Civ game comes out, I find myself saying "Oh, they 
 should have kept that." when they take something out that I love. But, this time, they have found 
 a ton of great stuff to put back in. No more time costly city revolts. There is a better system 
 in place.
  
  If you liked any of the other Civs, you'll love this one. Days of entertainment. After 9 games 
 of 40 hours each, I finally started to get bored. Stop reading reviews and just buy it already. 
 Althought, I still wish I could pick my own color. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: injust92
Rating: 9.8
Date: Apr 13, 2006 7:42 pm PT
Review:  This is a wonderful game. It is highly addicting and probably one of the best games you will ever 
 play. Sid Meier has done it again. I got this game for christmas '05 and havn't gotten bored yet. 
 This game will keep you awake at night and is totaly custimizable. I love this game it is one of 
 the best in my collection. You must get this game if you don't your missing highly addictive game 
 play and people nagging you to play the game all the time so that they cane watch. You can't say 
 it enough times, this is a wonderful game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ADPJFC
Rating: 2
Date: Apr 13, 2006 10:15 am PT
Review:  Ok, Im a Civ fan, played Civ I, II, III, and IV. This game is a total disaster. Ok, the graphics 
 have improved, but the massive number of bugs in both single player and multiplayer are totally 
 unacceptable. Even with the patches (which no good game should really need more than 2 of) the 
 game is still buggy. I seriously cant understand how and why GameSpot have picked this game as 
 the "Editor's Choice".
  Out of the box, after finishing the installation (somewhat annoying) you start the game, It starts 
 off nicely, with minimal lag and has a nice opening screen and more user freindly interface. So 
 you start a game and while your playing you open up one of the dialogs (ex. the chat dialog or 
 tech. select screen) you decide you want to select an option on that dialog and all of the sudden 
 you notice your mouse cant seem to click on that dialog, it clicks behind it on the land!!! OK, 
 so you bear with it and close it using the keyboard and open it a couple more times until the game 
 understands its supposed to focus on that dialog. After playing some turns on the epic game speed 
 mode, towards the years 2000, you notice strange lag. You switch out of the game and check the 
 task manager and see that the game is taking up around 700Mb - 1Gb of memory!! That's just some 
 of the problems.
  The multiplayer is a whole nother bug land in itself. try connecting to ur friend on the same LAN 
 with NO firewall. Works fine in every other game, takes some time on this game. after you connect 
 and play a bit, you decide to save the game and come back to it later. You come back to load it 
 and it doesnt wanna load anymore or takes forever (10-20 mins) to finally load the game and continue.
 
  Thats just some of the bugs of this disaster of a game not to mention the messed up AI. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pentium4dude
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 13, 2006 10:12 am PT
Review:  This game pwns any strategy game currently on the market. The value is definitely worth it in that 
 the came, really, could cost more than it actually does, $50. The game's graphics are amazing, 
 as well as the game play is very organized. The new interface is just excellent as that everything 
 is very easy to see and navigate around. It is a very long game as well, which is a definite benefit. 
 The options that are available in the game make the game very broad and expansive. Every serious 
 strategy gamer should buy this game. Best game in the series and should have gotten higher than 
 a 9.4... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Stevo_the_gamer
Rating: 9.4
Date: Apr 24, 2006 4:35 pm PT
Review:  Civilization IV has got to be one of the greatest PC stategy games ever. The game is very fun and 
 very addictive and you will probably end up losing sleep if you play this game.
  
  The gameplay is unique and very fun and interesting to play. I, myself, have never played a Civilization 
 game so I cannot tell you the difference between the third and the fourth game here. But I can 
 tell you that whatever empire you are, you can choose your riligion and use lots of cool units 
 and create many wonders and cool stuff. However, the only problem I see with the gameplay is that 
 it can get repetitive in ways if you start a new game ans such.
  
  The Graphics are good and cool to look at the characters and such. But the only bad thing is when 
 you scroll up to them they don't look so hot as they do when you are far away. When you are up 
 close, the players can be a little tiny bit blury.. The enrivonment looks cool and is fun to playa 
 round with in the World Builder mode
  
  The world builder mode is very fun to play around with, why? You can make continents, you can make 
 mountains and rivers. You can choose where to put a city and even choose what building go with 
 the city. Everything is extremely easy and simple to use..
  
  The sound is very good, from the voice acting to the narrator saying how the earth was without 
 form and then there was light! Very good. The music is memorable and fun to listen too. Also, the 
 voices from all the different units and leaders is very well done.
  
  Overall, a great game and it needs to have a spot to your collection if you are into the Civilization 
 games or if you enjoy strategy games such as this. You Need it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cheval52
Rating: 7.5
Date: Apr 10, 2006 6:16 pm PT
Review:  The game is fun to play and very addicting, but after building up your vast empire you feel a little 
 let down by a couple of game quirks. In one scenario I had reached the Industrial Age and had finally 
 built up enough forces to put an end to an annoying neighbor to the SW. (My forces were American 
 and my neighbor to the southwest was Mexico) and no, I wasn't enforcing the border !
  
  My forces crossed the border quite easily but once into the central region got bogged down by defending 
 Medieval Archers & Mounted Knights. I sent in my Grenadiers along with Artillery and got annialated 
 each time I tried to take a town. In each instance the archers easily beat the Riflemen, Grenadiers, 
 & Artillery, and to add insult to injury, the enemy knights rode into the town thay I was occupying 
 and killed off the last of my forces. After sending in the 5th wave to support the defenders I 
 shut the game down.
  
  Great graphics but I would get better battle results by rolling a pair of dice.
  
  
  
  
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sir_Ice
Rating: 5.3
Date: Apr 9, 2006 12:18 am PT
Review:  Before the 1.52 patch this game was a disaster!
  It hogged memory like crazy, and did not release it. It had some performance and stabilty issues 
 that got resolved after the patch.
  And still I do not appreciate the change from the 2D to the 3D game because of the required resources, 
 the rather bleak game colors and the simplistic combat sequences.
  The A. I. is unbelievable! It is absolutely unnacceptable for a game in this age to have a miserable 
 bowman vanquish any modern armored unit.
  Also I did not like the queing system, which now is much less intuitive.
  Still it is somewhat 
 enjoyable as it can be played with substantially different countries, using a more agressive or 
 more diplomatic approach and it does have several options for the endgame. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: purcusionist
Rating: 5
Date: Apr 24, 2006 2:29 pm PT
Review:  Civilation IV in and of itself is a good game, however something needs to be said about the online 
 play of this game! Be warned that if you intend to play this game online , that you will probably 
 spend as much time in the game lobby , trying to connect to a room as you would playing about half 
 a game! Not to mention game crashes , and game freeze galour, atleast on my system , and alot of 
 others from what I'm told. Offline this is a great game , and I would score it a 9! Online I score 
 it a dismal 3 , for a total score of a 5. The online bugs kill this game for me! Do the people 
 who gave this game a good review not play this game ONLINE? Because I really cannot understand 
 how this game is Editor's choice! If you do decide to but this game and play online have fun spendings 
 hours connecting to a game, and F. Y. I. the latest patch did absolutely nothing to fix this problem 
 , but atleast you know who you are having trouble connecting to now. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 7ranc3
Rating: 9.2
Date: Apr 7, 2006 8:16 pm PT
Review:  Always considered the best TBS game and the standard by which others are based, the Civilization 
 series is probably responsible for more late nights than any other game franchise out there. An 
 amazing game that is very complex and balanced, it is made even better by adding extra dimensions 
 to gameplay. 
  
  Much enjoyed is the new religion and cultural influence additions which can add to your strategy 
 or actually be the strategy to win a game.
  
  If you have ever enjoyed Civilizations, but put it away for a few years, then this game is worth 
 the money, if you have the time. The graphics and sound are splendid, the game is stable, and online 
 play can be a blast. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ccarter1024
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 7, 2006 11:23 am PT
Review:  This by far is the best Civ game ever. The graphics, gameplay, technology tree and religion/culture 
 are absolutely the best so far. I started playing this and could not stop. I can't wait to play 
 the expansion pack as I am sure it wil be just as good. However, I would love it if they came out 
 with a "Space Colonization" theme on the next game. I'm not just talking about one planet but, 
 universal colonization. I know there are several games out there right now that are doing this 
 but, I would love for Faraxis to develop this one. Well anyway, this game is great and I would 
 recommend this to anyone. Keep up the good work guys! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ReuF-San
Rating: 9.2
Date: Apr 7, 2006 5:52 am PT
Review:  Oh my god! Civ is back! Just like its predecessors, Civ4 is so addictive that you will lose every 
 sense of time and space, screaming for just one more turn. It enhances your creativity as well: 
 turning your underwear inside-out to save time on washing, or stop eating and drinking so you dont 
 have to leave your game going to the toilet.
  Seriously, Civ4 looks nicer than the previous editions and the tech tree has a lot more depth now. 
 I am not sure whether this enhances the gameplay, because it makes the game somewhat chaotic. Same 
 counts for the micro management of your cities, although there is an in-built auto-management option 
 (for focussing on production, money or growth) . The real die-hards will definitely want to keep 
 everthing in their own hands. Because everthing in this game is so detailed, newcomers might be 
 frightened by the somewhat lengthy learning curve. But when you get through the first few hours, 
 you will have many hours, days, weeks, months, years of fun!
  [ ReuF 
::::::

::::::
UserName: belimedvedxd
Rating: 9.6
Date: Apr 7, 2006 12:34 am PT
Review:  I played the demo so far but I will definetly buy the whole version of the game. I played civilization 
 3 for a long time and I like this kind of games because it is my type of games, You don't need 
 to play it fast at all. After all this games are producted for that kind of playing. After playing 
 the whole version i will have a lot to write, i think. I just have to say if somebody like playin 
 the strategy games he should definitly try civilization 4. If somebody have other opinio he can 
 write me so i would say what I think. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: S1nnful1ne
Rating: 8.8
Date: Apr 3, 2006 6:16 pm PT
Review:  From the very moment I picked this game up from my local Walmart I knew it was a winner...
  
  Pros: Mediocre graphics and absolutely astonishing gameplay keeps you coming back to your civ 
 4.
  
  Flaws: I can't stay up till 6 am anymore without passing out....
  
  After spending a large amount of my worthless life on this gargantuan gaming experience, I found 
 myself stunned. Stunned because the highly addictive pace and complication of this game far surpasses 
 its older brethren. The graphics of sorts are not exactly as good as I was hoping though, being 
 the downsider of the whole game. Still, past the graphics, the replay value, gameplay, and ambient 
 sound is hard to match. I found myself thrilled in the fact that I could actually play a turn-based 
 game and enjoy it...
  
  Pick up a copy today, it's worth the limitless-ness. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Danngerus
Rating: 6.3
Date: Mar 31, 2006 3:24 pm PT
Review:  I read all those reviews posted up by users and all those 'addictive', 'little sleap', 'sore eyes' 
 made me stat to get very curious towards this game. The idea of a highly addictive game really 
 encouraged me to buy it. Will it be another GTA? Burnout? Metal Gear? SimCity? Will I be thinking 
 about it at college impatiently? 
  Booooooooooy was I dissapointed. Ok, it is addictive. When I start playing I can't pull away. You're 
 always asking yourself what your people are gonna learn next or if your're gonna come out victorious 
 out of a war. But once i stopped i didn't have that urge to get back into it, cos quite frankly 
 it isn't very fun. It feels like you're doing the same all the time. Tell someone to go somewhere 
 and either build something or kill someone. Doing this thousands of times repetetively does get 
 boring. Maybe I'm missing something very important in the game. I mean the instruction book to 
 Civ IV has exactly the same amount of pages as my driving school's. But when I play I don't see 
 that depth. Ok there is alot for your civilization to learn bull all you do is chose the knowledge 
 from a list and wait a couple of turns to aquire it. Not very deep or fun, in my opinion. The turn 
 base element bores me. Chose an action, whatch it being done and watch the response from othe civilizations. 
 And do it again, and again, again.... It feels like i'm doing the same thing all the time but with 
 different people (knight, soldier or tank) .
  Personaly I am very dissapointed with this game. I'm not saying its rubbish but its all that, I 
 mean half of the scores given are 9 or 10 out of 10. The grafix aren't that good either. There's 
 isnt alot of detail in anything and when you have lots of cities and people onscreen it tends to 
 slow down and my PC isn't slow at all. Then again, it isn't ugly either.
  Sumuarising, it's an above averagegame to me.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: mlesak
Rating: 9.3
Date: Mar 30, 2006 1:17 pm PT
Review:  I have never played any of the previous iterations of Civilization before. For that matter, I have 
 very little experience with strategy games in general.
  
  I am a 30-something gamer with a pedigree tracing back to the Atari 2600 (was E. T. possibly the 
 worst game ever made?) and the Commodore 64 (on which I used to play Katana and D&D-style role-playing 
 games -- after waiting for my TAPE DECK to complete the hour+ load times. Kids today have no idea 
 how good they've got it!) .
  
  Up until a year ago or so I was hooked on FPS games. World of Warcraft changed that, and my ensuing 
 addiction to an MMO led me to open my mind (and wallet) to other previously untried game genres.
 
  
  Civilization is just easy enough to permit the novice strategy player confidently interact with 
 it, but plenty deep enough for more seasoned players to get heaps of replay value. The historical 
 facets are intriguing (although somewhat simplistic insofar as the effects different religions 
 & political philosophies have on your empire) . The number of controllable variables are potentially 
 intimidating. Thankfully, the opportunity to customize what is controlled manually vs. automatically 
 permit the player to delve as deep into the interface as they feel comfortable.
  
  As a relatively new player, I hesitate to say much more than So Far, So Good! I can say that the 
 game's design, interface and content have ensured that I will continue to explore it for some time 
 to come. I have found that the turn-based play can be quite addictive. No matter how late it gets, 
 it's difficult to avoid taking "just one more turn...." 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Agentk360
Rating: 9.7
Date: Mar 29, 2006 7:03 pm PT
Review:  It is a very good game. For newer players the tutorial is for you but for the experienced civilization 
 players there is multi-player and different difficulty levels. The one thing I like about the game 
 is that the are like 15 different civilizations. Plus, there are lots and lots of technologies to 
 chose from. You can chose from like 8 technologies that fits your style of play. That makes it a 
 very good strategy game. Also each civ and leader has its own special abilities. Yo will love this 
 game till you die. So don't rent Civilization four, buy it. I'm telling you it's great. One more thing 
 multii-player. You can play up to like 20 people. This game is rock hard awesome. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: M__N__M
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 29, 2006 3:43 pm PT
Review:  I've seen much better games with much lower scores in the reviews, this game certainly does not 
 deserve the 9.4 rating it received. While the game substance and concept has been changed for the 
 better, there are still some serious issues with the game.
  
  For a list of all the good features you can probably check other reviews, however I'll start with 
 some of the good additions that I liked.
  
  1) More comprehensive research tree. Its now laid out clearly and allows you to advance into Era's 
 from the classical to the digital age.
  
  2) Major characters, these marvels of time can propel you into a golden age of prosperity, or upgrade 
 any of your cities with stuff you can't get on your own.
  
  3) Religion, the addition of this element has really expanded the gameplay strategies and added 
 alot of fun and realism to the game. You are no longer in charge of spreading your civilization, 
 but your religion as well.
  
  4) Special resources, the addition of stuff like uranium, oil ... etc has also helped add more gameplay 
 strategies to the table.
  
  5) Localised Audio, this is by far the greatest aspect of the game imo. For all native english 
 speakers this might not be that interesting. But its quite amazing to find all these languages 
 in the game with each unit replying to you in your own language.
  
  Now I'll talk about the disappointing factors
  
  1) Primitive & Idiotic combat model, this 
 is really the worst part of the game. The game is supposed to be all about warfare, yet the combat 
 system is probably the worst factor of the game. The combat is very simplistic, each unit is a 
 pack of 3 soldiers that start firing their weapons when in combat. The firing animations are usually 
 out of sync (don't think they were supposed to be in sync) , the combat factors are also all screwed 
 up. I've seen several times where a group of archers would destroy a tank, or a unit of pikemen 
 would shoot down a chopper. How the hell is that possible !??
  
  2) Advisors are no longer people. You just get this menu specific to each aspect of your civilisation, 
 but gone are the personalized advisors that made the other games in the series just that much fun. 
 I was really hoping to see a return of Civ2's style of advisors, where you get a real person acting 
 out the role of the advisors and displaying emotions to indicate acceptance or rejection. They 
 could've at least made 3d advisors like the civilization leaders, but instead they chose to omit 
 the whole thing.
  
  3) The diplomacy element is another failure for the game, the AI can be quite stupid when it comes 
 to negotiations. They get to ask you all sorts of stuff but you can't even ask them half of the 
 stuff because you usually don't have enough approval. You can also rarely get an alliance with 
 any of them even if you shower them with gifts. The lack of "available" negotiating options is 
 rather limiting to the whole diplomacy aspect of the game.
  
  4) The building model is somewhat confusing, it functions much better then the earlier models but 
 it can take some time to get used to.
  
  5) Boring gameplay, I've only played with 2 civilisations but the lack of allies, proper combat, 
 restrictive diplomacy usually makes the game quite boring. 
  
  6) Lack of a proper campaign, you only get to play a "skirmish" type game where the world is auto-generated 
 and you get spawned along with many other civilisations and basically duke it out. There is no 
 specific storyline to follow, no . While the whole series lacked this, other games with somewhat 
 similar gameplay (like Galactic Civ 2) seem to have their own structured campaigns with an interesting 
 storyline.
  
  Altogether, the game is quite disappointing. Although many new things have helped the gameplay 
 immensely, a few things like combat and diplomacy all but spoiled the gameplay. While the core 
 & essence of the game is still there and improved, some attempts to add to that or enhance some 
 of its aspects seem to have failed miserably. As a result the game seems to be another disappointing 
 addition to the series. Some people hail Civ4 as the best in the series, while it certainly is 
 best in some aspects earlier prequels lacked in. The net value of this game in my opinion hasn't 
 gone up much. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: brentosmaximus
Rating: 8.4
Date: Mar 27, 2006 5:11 am PT
Review:  After being slightly annoyed with Civilization 3 and its reliance on sparce resources like oil 
 limiting unit capability, I was pleased to see Civ4 included this realistic concept but made the 
 resources easier to come by. Civilization 1 was the first computer game I really got into, and 
 I have to say this is the best one yet. The 3D civ leaders make it really interesting; there are 
 tonnes of resources to gather and trade and it just feels like you are commanding a real civilization. 
 
  
  In Civ4 getting city improvements is more beneficial and doesn't drain your gold stores like it 
 did in the old game, and if you want, it is perfectly viable to be a 100% trading and economic 
 nation, rather than being 100% military. The only thing which I thought was a bit sucky was the 
 United Nations agreements (which adds to the realism) which prohibit the use of nuclear weapons. 
 It actually prevents you from building nukes if the law is passed : (. The combat is very similar 
 to the previous two games in the series but you do have the option of watching the two units interactively 
 clash instead of a tile attacking a tile. As with most aspects of Civ4, everything is just more 
 realistic and exciting.
  
  Overall though, if you are a fan of Civilization then you will love Civ4 and will most likely turn 
 into Gollum from excessive time spent playing it and building up your favourite civilization. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BigBoss028
Rating: 9.3
Date: Mar 26, 2006 8:31 am PT
Review:  The first time I picked up Civ4 I played for around 12 hours straight, and I ain't the RTS type. 
 Civ4 is actually my first game that is not a shooter, Its that damn good.
  
  Civ4 has a lot of interesting qualities that make it such a great game, one of those being the 
 fact that you can play as so many different empires form Rome to Roosevelt its all there for you. 
 Great 3D graphics and with the myriad amount of thing happening on screen it still runs at a smooth 
 framrate. Its got a great and unique soundtrack for each era you play in. Civ4's drawbacks are 
 its very steep learning curve, new fans to the Civ series might feel a little overwelmed.
  
  But once you get past its steep learning curve Civ4 is a superb game and I would recommend 
 it to anyone looking for a great game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Brandmon
Rating: 9.6
Date: Mar 26, 2006 6:12 am PT
Review:  Civilization IV is one great game , one of the best released this year. 
  It looks more like Civ3 but over its a grealy improoved game.
  new addons that make this game 
 more enjoyable is , advanced resource system , religions , more terrain and like in all Civ games 
 , a big thec chart.
  This game is very flexible , you gave make the romans be concuered by the greeks , the germans 
 using Comunismnor the Americans taking over the world with nukes. In short you can do anything you 
 want.
  If you do a whole scenario from 4000BC till 2050 AD and finish it (it will take like 25 hours to 
 finish it) you will get sort of bored with it. But like after 2-4 weeks later you will want to 
 start from the begining again because it has soo much to offer.
  Over all , Civ4 is an exelent game recomand the buy for anyone who like games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Darcius
Rating: 7.7
Date: Mar 25, 2006 12:18 am PT
Review:  civ 4 is a great game much like civ 1 was a great game course with the newer graphics this civ 
 looks way better then any tbs has in the past. 
  
  course like all civs its harsh city builder but that is really whats its about isnt it? to make 
 an empire strech the passage of time.
  
  i love what they have done to it to improve the odd hatefull things civ 2 and 3 had like the waste 
 and such. 
  
  but the one thing that kind of detracts from the game is the pain in the backside npcs they are 
 so hard to form alliances with. the best you can hopefor is a NAP and defence treaty, also they 
 seem to get pretty whiny when you blow up 2 other nations who they are pleased with. 
  
  but over all the game is good. 
  
  sound is pretty nice and relaxing not too over powered or 
 boring. 
  
  graphics are par with newer games (for rts/tbs game)
  
  enjoyment factor is pretty good simply because the map is random seed on some so you can always 
 find new battle plans popping up.
  
  hopefully future expantions and patches fix the baby bots so they do not cower so much or arnt 
 so anti-alliance. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Andoverjon
Rating: 9.4
Date: Mar 24, 2006 11:21 am PT
Review:  This game is VERY similar to CIV3 right down to the graphics. BUt they did FIX everything i hated 
 about Civ3 like corruption and other things they could've sorted out had they played the game (as 
 you can see i wasn't a big fan of CIV3) .
  CIV4 is almost a flawless game. Its a turn-based strategy game (obviously) and you start in 4000BC 
 and end in 2050 (or sooner if you beat it) . THere are a variety of ways to win from conquering 
 every other race to building a spaceship to colonize other planets, to becoming the leader as elected 
 by the UN.
  I've played CIV2 and CIV3 and i always liked CIV2 better than CIV3, but CIV4 makes up for this 
 and pretty much is CIV2 but better in diplomacy as well as graphics.
  There are still a few problems with the games like how it is IMPOSSIBLE to take over cities until 
 certian units are acquired. But despite some minor flaws, this game can take hours upon hours. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: iceteo012
Rating: 8.4
Date: Mar 23, 2006 6:32 am PT
Review:  When Civ 4 was released, I told myself that there was no way I was buying this game. Why? Cos the 
 previous Civ games damn near ruined my life, making me survive on 4 hrs sleep days and coffee and 
 rushed meals. Well, quite obviously my resolve sorta collapsed 3 weeks into my resolution and I 
 gave in to temptation. The game is everything a CIv game should be. Its a virtual encyclopedia 
 of ancient civilization and the turn based allows for strategic planning and deep thinking before 
 making your next move. I'm having some problems with some bugs however. My PC is above the recommended 
 specs but the game displays some bad framerate as the missions progresses and sometimes this causes 
 the game to crash. Overall, an excellent turn based game for those into Turn Based Strategy 
::::::

::::::
UserName: eternal_dragon0
Rating: 9.8
Date: Mar 22, 2006 9:08 pm PT
Review:  Graphics: 10/10
  You wouldn't think a strategy game has great graphics, but Civ 4's got the detail, the vividness, 
 and the variety in landscapes to earn it a 10 with respect to other strategy games. Especially 
 when compared to other strategy games available, such as AOE 3 or Civ 3, it has great graphics. 
 Again, like AOE 3, it has a zoom function, but unlike AOE 3, where the detail is completely gone 
 upon zooming in, Civ 4 actually ADDS to the detail when you zoom in, especially on developed cities. 
 It is simply a joy to zoom around watching your cities and the structures in it that you personally 
 built! The city look changes as you build different buildings in it.
  Sound: 8/10
  Not too much variety, not too interesting sounds. Sound is easily Civ 4's worst category. However, 
 seeing that it's a turn based strategy, what does sound hafta do with this?
  Gameplay: 10/10
  Only thing that could describe this game: irrisistible. Prepare to lose sleep 
 over this. Personally, I lost over 10 hours of sleep already, over a 1 week period. This is the 
 first opportunity I got to get away from Civ 4, and that's jjust because I lost to the darn Montezuma... 
 The game usually starts off slow, very slow, but speeds up with a vengeance. You have to see how 
 much resources you partition to research, expand your colony, then monitor what resources your 
 citizens are gathering, then choose which buildings to build, which units to train, and which technologies 
 to research. The discoveries just never seem to end for the player. To get an idea of what's actually 
 included in the gameplay, read the online game guide, cuz if I try to describe everything here, 
 you'll be far too bored to read this. All that I'm emphasizing here is that there are near endless 
 choices for you to make in the game, making it a true "Civilization" management game, including 
 trading, diplomacy, and the space race. As well, there are many ways to win a game, the hardest 
 of which is actually, surprisingly, conquest. So for those who love overrunning opponents, you'll 
 be hard pressed to win many games.
  
  Good: Unending choices, addictive, classic strategy = no quick reflexes needed.
  Bad: Sound, 
 losing sleep. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nandosman
Rating: 7.8
Date: Mar 22, 2006 8:15 pm PT
Review:  I don't know why people spend time on this "game":
  Is not my intention to tell you that this is a bad game, is only that I have a criticism: How this 
 game have a score of 9.4, and rome total war (that is the better game of this genre that i had 
 ever seen) have only about 8.0? thats unfair to me.
  My cousin bought this game a few weeks ago, and a have been playing it for a while, but i don't 
 find any attractive. it's like a kid game, you are always looking that boring map, and managing 
 your warriors, but there's no action, not like rome total war. When you play rome TW, you take 
 your 4000 warriors army and then attack another 4000 warriors army, and then, the action begins; 
 the scenery changes, and then you fight on a very interactive map, where you can see what're your 
 warriors doing; you can control the strategy of your men, and tell then to attack the front or 
 the flanks, etc.
  This kind of interactive fights is what I don't find in civilization 4, making this game another 
 boring version of "age of empires II", with a few and trivial modifications.
  If Someone have something else to say about this matter, please... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GeneralDogah
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 21, 2006 2:01 pm PT
Review:  I was very disappointed to install this game only to have to take it off my computer in a very 
 short time. This game got a little to repetitive i`m afraid. I mean don't get me wrong it was a 
 blast to play for the short time that it was good. But after beating and playing several games 
 it starts to get slightly boring. It all ends up the same... as long as you have one solid strategy 
 then its impossible to lose. The computer doesn`t take any valiant efforts to absolutely crush 
 you.... disappointing i found. 
  
  Maby for some this game will appeal to them, not to me though. i would rather take control of hordes 
 of troops and charge into the other players base or meeting them half way. This is not the sort 
 of strategy that i found fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Malakaspoli
Rating: 9.3
Date: Mar 21, 2006 5:57 am PT
Review:  I am a player of Civ1 Civ2 Civ3 and Civ4, and I spent lots of my time with each of them. What i 
 can say about Civ 4 is that if you were a fan of the previous series you are gonna love it for 
 sure. It keeps the goodies from previous civ's and adds new stuff to keep you interest. Graphics 
 are the best we can have for the genre at this point and very much boosted compared to Civ3 and 
 the game offers countless hours of gameplay and you dont get bored playing it. Sound is ok although 
 not that good as the rest aspects of the game and as in previous civ games it becomes a bit boring 
 after you spend 500hours in the game...
  For the ones who haven't played previous civs, if you like complicated turn based strategies, where 
 you got to think each move, then this is a nice game for you. You can pause anytime and continue 
 another day, meaning you dont have to spend a very great amount of time every day if you don't 
 like to and still get to enjoy the game. Also the wonderfull thing with Civ is that you start a 
 civilization from scratch, meaning you see it evolving from small huts to enormous cities and all 
 this happens, or doesnt happen, because of your wise, or unwise, moves! You have to deal with War, 
 Technology, Economy, Trade, Diplomacy, Exploration, Colonization, City Developing, Building and 
 Culture, in your quest to develop you civilization. You can also focus on one of these aspects 
 to win the game, for example conquer the world, or achieve thechnological supremacy, or become 
 a great economic power, or have all nations with you side etc...
  In conclusion its a turn based strategy game that offers many ways of playing according to your 
 personal desires. Its complicated and requires lots of time to learn although things can be done 
 by the computer for your convenience in civ4, but once you learn it seems quite easy and with many 
 options to make your civilization a dominant power on your planet... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ganchoran
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 21, 2006 1:08 am PT
Review:  The game is great. Now this is the best game of all time.
  That game is perfect, relutionary, amazing. It is best in series.
  My score is 10.0 (perfect) because 
 is super.
  I thanks for be to gamespot for lots of updates and scenarios, particularly
  for the patch 1.52.
  
  For sorrow the system requirements it is very big and many people
 
  have not got any chance to install the game.
  Minimum System Requirements
  
  Operating System:
  Windows 2000/XP 
  Processor:
  1.2 GHz Intel Pentium 4 or AMD Athlon processor 
 or equivalent 
  Memory:
  256 MB RAM (Windows 2000) / 512 MB RAM (Windows XP) 
  
  Hard Disk Space:
  1.7 GB Free 
  
  CD-ROM Drive :
  4X Speed 
  
  Video:
  DirectX 9.0c-compatible 
 64 MB video card with Hardware T&L support ( GeForce 2/Radeon 7500 or better) 
  
  Sound:
  DirectX 9.0c-compatible sound card 
  
  DirectX:
  DirectX version 9.0c (included) or higher 
 
  
  Recommended System Requirements
  
  Operating System:
  Windows 2000/XP 
  Processor:
  1.8 GHz Intel Pentium 4 or AMD Athlon processor or equivalent 
  
  Memory:
  
 512 MB RAM
  
  Hard Disk Space:
  1.7 GB Free
  
  CD-ROM Drive :
  4X Speed 
  
  Video:
  128 MB Video Card w/ DirectX 8 support (pixel & vertex shaders)
  
  Sound:
  DirectX 
 9.0c-compatible sound card 
  
  DirectX:
  DirectX version 9.0c (included) or higher 
  
  Supported Operating Systems
  
  Windows 2000 
  Service Pack 1 or higher WITH Internet 
 Explorer 6.0 or higher 
  Windows XP
  Home or Professional w/ Service Pack 1 or higher
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: evermore
Rating: 3
Date: Mar 21, 2006 12:31 am PT
Review:  No strategy game has ever benefitted from a 3D interface. Give me back icons and sprites and pre-rendered 
 animations. 3D just makes units and terrain bulbous, makes it all take up too much screen space.
 
  
  The complex and interlocking unit abilities and building benefits/costs and terrain features are 
 just too much for me. I can only attribute it to getting old; I just can't keep it all in my head, 
 and I'm not interested in trying when I have to fight with the horrible 3D just to see what's going 
 on.
  
  I played about 6 hours total, then put it all back in the box and stuck it in the closet. I was 
 so disappointed by Civ IV, I was looking forward to it for years. I played Civ3 constantly for 
 a year or two, and intermittently after that, but I've gotten bored with it doing the same things 
 over and over. Civ IV failed to take the reins. Civ3 remains one of my all-time favorite games 
 though; all I really want is a few improvements to the basic Civ3 design in order to make it feel 
 fresh for another year or so (I have few specific problems with it so all I'm looking for is creative 
 changes, not changes just for the sake of changes) .
  
  Leonard Nimoy, a legend though he may be and I LOVED his tech popup readings, can't make up for 
 all that. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Zanthrus
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 20, 2006 9:07 am PT
Review:  This game is THE best strategy game out there, it spans all of time and the range of technologies 
 allows for hours of gameplay in each single game. It has a lot of new features from the older game 
 in the series, such as resources becomeing more important because they are required to build units.
 
  
  GAMPLAY: Amazing, tons of technologies and a wide range of units, new leaders with special attributes 
 and competition with up to 16 enemies. It is simply amazing. There is very little lag.
  
  GRAPHICS: Much better than previous versions, not the best but it works extremely well for the 
 game. It is in very good 3D but as the combat is basic it doesn't need to be super amazing. Graphics 
 really show at the cutscenes.
  
  SOUND: Fine it doesn't get annoying but it still creates an atmosphere 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jaggerooh
Rating: 5.2
Date: Mar 20, 2006 8:11 am PT
Review:  Having been missing from the PC gaming world for about ten years I have managed to avoid playing 
 any of the Civilisation series, until now. I bought Civ 4 with a great deal of excitement as it 
 is just the type strategy of game that I like. Or so I thought, my previous (recent) gaming history 
 has been based on the total war series, railroad tycoon and a few others. 
  
  I had read the review of Civ 4 and begun to play. Granted, about 4 hours slipped by in the bat 
 of an eye lid, but with this game there is just something that is missing..... It's not very much 
 fun. I don't get excited by seeing 3 axemen fight a tank. The diplomacy aspect seems very simplified 
 and almost comical. While I like some degree of micro-management in games I just find Civ a little 
 tedious. I am not slating the game, I can understand why some people like it but to give it rating 
 in excess of 90% just seems undeserved.
  
  To sum up, not bad but a little dull. There are plenty of other more engrossing games on the market.
 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: adhilfowzie
Rating: 8.8
Date: Mar 20, 2006 5:54 am PT
Review:  Very good game, but has a few drawbacks, mainly the consumption of time.
  
  Quite realistic gameplay with a lot of customizations for cities. If you're playing it for the 
 first time you might find it boring but after you win a battle is when you will realise that you 
 have spent hours playing it. With good sound quality and a graphics engine the game is truly deserves 
 the 2005's PC game of the year.
  
  Researches and upgrades take too much time because of the number of turns required for the purpose. 
 If your objective is to build the SS, you might have to spend a whole day playing. 
  
  The game is still worth the wait and not dissapoint. Worth paying 50 bucks for one of the best 
 turn based strategy games so far.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: billymbadass
Rating: 9.3
Date: Mar 18, 2006 6:56 pm PT
Review:  The Only thing I can say is wrong with this game is the fact that I cannot bring it with me to 
 work, while driving, and while getting down with my lady..
  This game has it all. It is a excellent feat when you get your feet wet after several different 
 stratagies and finally decide to take a leap of faith with something completly new from your previous 
 stratagies and you can feel the shift in global power. If you want to run a world economic strategy, 
 a war strategy, or a scientific peacetime real world strategy this game will give you so much insight 
 how the real world has formed as it has you will find yourself refering to this game while watching 
 the news and studying geography for years to come.
  Clearly a great achievment in gaming.
  Go buy it today or miss on on the gaming experience of a lifetime.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: The_Daw
Rating: 9.1
Date: Mar 18, 2006 1:17 pm PT
Review:  Civilization is at times an accuired taste which requires you to understand what you're doing. 
 Veterans can jump straight in while beginners need plenty of practice. But once you get into it 
 there is no escape.
  
  Civilization is a game that is played differently from person to person. You could take a diplomatic 
 route helping other civilzations and getting help in return. Or it could be played useing a military 
 route buliding up your forces to destroy the other civilizations.
  
  This is a turn based strategy game, often thought to be left for old men with long beards but this 
 game is accesible by anyone. You get sucked in and lose hours at a time. It can be played in short 
 bursts or marathon timed games.
  
  This game accomplishes exactly what it set out to do. You must build an empire that can stand the 
 test of time. How you do it though is left up to you. There are many ways to complet this game 
 each with strengths and weaknesses. 
  
  When you've mastered this game in every way you thought possible it dosen't have to end. This game 
 has an excellent online play. Test your skills against strangers or the best of the best. Or if 
 you prefer have a laugh with a few friends.
  
  Stop The Press!
  I almost finished this review without mentioning the wonder movies! Oh yes there back better than 
 ever. For those who've never played a civilization game these are cgi movies triggered with the 
 construction of a wonder. The movie shows in great detail the construction being well... constructed. 
 Examples of these are stonehenge, the pyramids and broadway.
  
  Overall this a masterpiece of a game. If you are looking for a game that requires thought but also 
 has action I seriously recommend it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jss_15
Rating: 9.6
Date: Mar 17, 2006 10:08 pm PT
Review:  Civilization IV is one of the best games I have played in my life. I bought it only a week ago 
 and have lost hours of sleep since. This game has everything from a great soundtrack to unmatched 
 gameplay. I will take you through all of the aspects of the game:
  
  ------------------------
  
  Gameplay - The gameplay is what draws all gamers to the Civilization 
 series. After playing the original Civ as a kid, I decided to try the new addition. The same original 
 gameplay was there. That same gameplay that made me a fan for life remains. I enjoy every part 
 of the gameplay. The controls are easy to learn, the game is easy to follow and the turn based 
 system is definitely a positive. 
  
  ------------------------
  
  Graphics - The graphics are greatly improved from older Civs, however the graphics are not as good 
 as Age of Empires III. The graphics are above average and add to the gameplay.
  
  ------------------------
  
  Sound - The soundtrack is awesome, though it does get repetitive. 
 The in game battle noises are realistic and the opening track is enjoyable.
  
  ------------------------
  
  Value - This type of game can never get boring. There is so much 
 to do, so $50 dollars seems like a bargain. Definitely worth the money.
  
  ------------------------
  
  Overall: Go buy the game now!! You will not regret it!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: mc_008
Rating: 8.7
Date: Mar 17, 2006 7:33 pm PT
Review:  This is the first Civ game i have played, normally i stick to my FPS but having completed FEAR 
 and am now waiting for Oblivion i needed something to fill the gap. I purchased this game not on 
 the series solid reputation but because this game has received such positive reviews and is within 
 a handful of games recently released that deserved the 9+ score. On first play i was slightly disappointed 
 but soon realised that i had spent over 3 hours playing without noticing. Its like the old days 
 of championship manager when u would say to yourself "only one more click on the continue button" 
 but you would soon find yourself sat in a room lit by the morning light. This addictiveness level 
 is the same for Civ 4 you find yourself continually clicking the little red button just one more 
 time over and over. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: terryprior
Rating: 8.4
Date: Mar 16, 2006 5:18 pm PT
Review:  Let's get it out of the way right at the start: the only reason to stop playing Civilization IV 
 is to tell other people just how good the game is. We here at IGN have been playing the game almost 
 non-stop since we got our first playable versions. The first time we laid hands on the game we 
 felt that Firaxis was doing something special with the series. As newer, more complete builds came 
 our way, our expectations for the game only grew. After having spent a lot of time playing through 
 the final version, we can safely say that Civilization IV is the best version of Civilization yet. 
 
  The first thing you need to understand is that Civilization IV is a fundamental reinvention of 
 the franchise. Fans should be assured that all the basic concepts from Civilization are still here, 
 but many of the more obnoxious or troublesome elements have been greatly improved upon. City production, 
 combat, and culture have all been tweaked to allow for more intuitive application within the game. 
 Concepts like civil disorder, predictable tech paths, pollution and the creeping pace of the late 
 game have all benefited from substantial revisions that make them more manageable and enjoyable 
 aspects of your strategy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nsj0806
Rating: 9.7
Date: Mar 16, 2006 4:59 pm PT
Review:  It is really fun and it isnt as hard as the others. the graphics are really cool and there are 
 so many new techs. This is the best of Sid Meirers games. I only wish that there would be more 
 scenarios but other wise its PERFECT. I think you should go out and buy it right now. The graphics 
 are easy to see and there is know more having to open the city screen just to find info on the 
 city. It is really addictive. I like it how you can change the era you want to start in. The other 
 thing is that catepults can not bombard units any more which really sucks. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: willdemers
Rating: 8.6
Date: May 10, 2006 11:04 am PT
Review:  Playing Civilization IV was extremely disappointing since it was a chance for the series to redeem 
 itself. While it is tough to live up to the glory of Civilization II, Civ III came nowhere close 
 and Civ IV did not either.
  
  The graphics and interface are greater. The introduction of religion was an interesting one... 
 aside from that though this game is nothing particularly new. It is the same concept with some 
 changes and upgrades.
  
  The game is fun, all the same. I enjoy playing it a lot. It's just not what it could have been. 
 I feel like these Civilization games are actually trying to live up to their name, but they're 
 getting worse and worse every time.
  
  Hype is built up by the company and by the game sites. I remember hearing about all these customizable 
 aspects of the game. All these things were said about the game, such as the combat, which just 
 turned out to never make it to the finished product.
  
  Is it just me or did they promise a highly customizable game where we could create army formations, 
 modify what our cities looked like, etc... I don't see any of this. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: raptisth
Rating: 2.4
Date: Mar 16, 2006 6:32 am PT
Review:  I would rate the game at below zero if I could. Compared to the older civs, it has nothing to add 
 expect a 3d GUI. No more ideas, bad implementation, poor programming, slow and buggy platform. 
 A disgrace for such a game to bear the strong name of Civilization. I wonder why someone who did 
 actually experience the strong moments of Civ2, Civ3 and Alpha Centauri needs to buy this new poorly 
 implemented effort. 
  
  My advise to the designers: next time you reissue a Civ Product add some value on it (it's not 
 the brand that will keep your products alive) . 
  
  My advise to the players: go buy the older versions of Civ. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: marius_oltean
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 14, 2006 12:33 pm PT
Review:  Out of all the outstanding games that we all had the privilege of playing in 2005, Sid Meiers 
 Civilization IV stands out as one of the greatest, and most enjoyable of these. 
  
  In spite of the fact that I personally have no previous experience with Civilization games (and 
 very little with other turn-based strategies) , Civilization IV truly impressed me with its outstanding 
 gameplay and with its simple, but extraordinary idea. To build your own civilization and to control 
 all (or most) of its aspects may seem at first a very complex task, but this game manages to reduce 
 it to something very simple and, consequently, enjoyable. 
  
  The only objection that I have to Civilization IV is that it made this task too simple. I do 
 not mean this in the sense that the game itself is easy to finish, but in the sense that the concepts 
 and options which the game presents are lacking just a bit more detail, a bit more complexity. 
 It is my opinion that, because of this, Civilization IV falls just short of a masterpiece. It 
 is, nonetheless, masterfully made, and it will keep gamers playing it for long periods of time. 
 
  
  One of the more attractive aspects of the game is that many victory possibilities are available 
 to you. It may be the liberty that this game gives you with your civilization, or it may be the 
 feeling of power that it leaves you with, but all I can say is that one can rarely come across 
 a game as addictive, and as beautifully made as this one.
  
  Personally, I wouldnt go so far as to call Civilization IV game of the year, or even a masterpiece, 
 but it is certainly a game that is extremely enjoyable to play, and one that will leave you wondering 
 why all computer games arent like this one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sprawwl
Rating: 9.3
Date: Mar 12, 2006 6:11 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay: It's classic turn-based strategy gameplay, no real surprises. Everything is solid, Civilization-quality 
 stuff, which is to say: some of the best in the business. This is the real hook for Civ IV. Very 
 addictive. No real weak points, unless you dislike sitting in front of a computer screen for long 
 periods of time. The alarm feature, which alerts gamers at preset times, is very, very much appreciated.
 
  
  Graphics: Surprisingly flashy for Civilization, the graphics look very, very nice. I wouldn't go 
 so far as to say beautiful, but they are quite pretty. Where in previous games in the series they 
 were to some extent a drawback, here they are a strength.
  
  Sound: They got Leonard Nimoy to do voicework! The sound effects are solid, but nothing special. 
 The music has a kind of lion-king-esque feel that is a little odd, but works reasonably well. Did 
 I mention that they got Leonard Nimoy to do voicework?
  
  Overall: I would wholeheartedly recommend this game to anyone who has time to spend playing computer 
 games. A solid, very well put together, highly addictive work from a man who is the acknowledged 
 master at creating solid, very well put together, highly addictive works. You play it, you'll fall 
 in love. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Splitwaveyo
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 12, 2006 6:36 am PT
Review:  The previous Civilization games were instant classics, with revolutionary features and innovative 
 gameplay. When Civilization IV hit shelves, it promised even more of what we have come to expect 
 from a Civ game, however, was it truly done correctly?
  
  First of all, the religion system. When playing a game, I have noticed that religion doesn't really 
 do that much, at all. I basically ignored the entire system every time I have played, and it didn't 
 effect the game what so ever. Secondly, the interface. The city menu is now much more complicated 
 in how things are done. I liked just being able to go through a list and pick what I wanted to 
 produce, but now it's all in pictures and was trying to be more user friendly, but turned out being 
 more frustrating. And finally, the things I've come to expect that made the game more real was 
 civil disorder and pollution. These are real problems that you had to work through in the game, 
 but for some reason was removed from IV, and I was somewhat disappointed to find out that it was 
 taken out.
  
  Aside from all shortcomings, the game holds its own against other games of the genre, and it is 
 definitaly worth the purchase, but I recommend Civ III before this game, or even Civ II.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: brilhasti
Rating: 9.3
Date: Mar 10, 2006 1:38 pm PT
Review:  It's always nice when your favorite band comes out with their next album and it rocks. Civ IV has 
 given me that same type of feeling. You're always a little scared yet hopeful that your favorite 
 franchise's sequel is going to do well, but all too often a sequel is just a rehash of the previous 
 game or doesn't leave you with that warm-and-fuzzy feeling you were looking for.
  
  Well, put your inhibitions aside because Civ IV delivers. Firaxis got rid of a lot of the things 
 that were bad with the Civ series and introduced plenty of new game concepts, technologies, and 
 resources in Civ IV.
  
  If you have even a passing interest in either the Civ franchise or the turn based strategy genre, 
 buy this game. It truly deserves all the accolades it has received. Definitely one of the juggernauts 
 in its field.
  
  Enjoy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FuzzyBunny55
Rating: 9.7
Date: Mar 10, 2006 12:36 pm PT
Review:  The civ series has always been an evolutionary series, rather than a revolutionary one. Each sequel 
 to date has managed to maintain the core gameplay that made the original so addictive while improving 
 on it in measurable ways. Civ 4 continues this tradition, although the changes are a little more 
 dramatic this time around.
  
  The first, and most obvious, change is the graphics engine. Civ 4 marks the first game in the series 
 to use a 3d engine. While this has little effect on the gameplay in a turn-based strategy games 
 such as this, it manages to improve the overall look and feel of the game. One of my favorite graphical 
 touches in civ 4 is the world map. When you first start the game your map is very limited to the 
 world around you. As you explore, you're field of view will expand but the map remains flat. Finally 
 when you discover a key technology (I think it's magnetism) the zoomed out version of the world 
 map changes to a globe rather than just a flat map.
  
  Another graphical change this time around is that cities take up more and more of their borders 
 as they grow rather than just the center tile as in previous versions of the game. Again, this 
 is a minor change, but it always irked me a little in previous games that a bustling metropolis 
 was represented as the same size as a small village on the map.
  
  The UI has aslo been ravamped and provides a much more user-friendly and seemless experience than 
 in the previous games. Just about any detail you need to know can be obtained simply by mousing 
 over an item.
  
  The second major change to the game is the addition of religion to the gameplay. The primary benenfits 
 of religion are the effect they have on your culture, expanded view of the world map depending 
 on what cities chare your religion, and the happiness of your populations. The extent of these 
 effects is determined by whether or not you founded the religion and how you choose to manage your 
 religion (ie Theocracy vs. Free Religion) rather than what particular religion you choose. 
  
  The addition of religion to the gameplay coincides with the breaking up of the government aspect 
 of previous games into five different "civics". These civics allow you greater control over how 
 your civilization will govern itself. For instance you can choose a democratic theocracy with a 
 socialist economy.
  
  Another change that has been made is the expansion of the "great leaders". In Civ III you would 
 occasionally recieve a great leader who could do things like create and army, start a golden age, 
 or finish a building. In Civ IV there are all sorts of great leaders: great engineers, great prophets, 
 great artists, great scientists, great merchants, etc... Each one has it's own unique abilities 
 (for instance great merchants can create trade routes that net huge amounts of gold) . The great 
 leaders in Civ 4 appear far more often than in Civ 3 and are well implemented. When managed well 
 the great leaders can make huge changes in the way the game is played.
  
  Throughout the game there are various other gameplay tweaks that have been made that, overall, 
 improve the experience. However, there are a few minor complaints that I have with the game. My 
 biggest one is the industrial age. In previous Civ games, the start of the industrial revolution 
 marked a huge turning point in the game, as it did in real life. The shift is much more gradual 
 in Civ 4. Buildings, such as forges, act a precursors to the factory and the factory isn't as effective 
 of a city improvement as in earlier games.
  
  My other complaint is that the Civlopedia in Civ 4 is harder to access and browse through than 
 in Civ 3. While, again, this is a pretty minor complaint, the Civlopedia is a pretty important 
 item in a game as deep as this and was invaluable in previous versions.
  
  I've focused my review mostly on the changes that Civ 4 has made over the previous versions, so 
 if you have't played any of the other games you might not have gotten much out of this yet. That's 
 alright though because there's really only one thing you need to know if you've never played Civ 
 before: you have to play this game! The Civilization series is, by far, the greatest turn-based 
 strategy series out there and Civ 4 is easily the best one yet. If you've never played these games 
 before, do yourself a favor and go out and get one right now. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xplozivdiarrhea
Rating: 9.1
Date: Mar 10, 2006 12:22 pm PT
Review:  Buy it! If you are a true pc gamer you will do just that. I spent over 80 hours on this game. i 
 like this game. I like this game. I like this game. I like this game. I lIke this game. I like 
 this game. I like this game. la la la la la la ala la ala al; a al; a ala al; a ala a. la ala g, dfsg 
 dsfg dfg gf daf gadf gdf fd gfds fds hfds hfds hfds hfds h fr fdsh fdh sh dfh gfh gh gh sgh gfh 
 sfh gsgs hgf hgf hgf hfg hg hgh fgh sgh 
::::::

::::::
UserName: desperado1
Rating: 8.7
Date: Mar 10, 2006 12:32 am PT
Review:  Well, as u all know, civ4 been a great game of its series. One who liked civ3 would surely enjoy 
 this sequel. Its a long addicting game and the best part is the winning conditions. U could either 
 win by total domination of the world and population or just simply defeat all the other civilizations 
 or even win a space race. 
  But the thing is all the games have some bugs and also this game has its bugs too. 
  
 I am now going to tell u guys a bug that I have exploited whenever I got kicked by some game difficulty. 
 ;) 
  So during play of the game some times we get a little like bored from peaceful living through the 
 game. So we decide to rage a war with one of our neighbors. And when we get enough @$$ kicking 
 we resort to peace treaty.
  Well the thing is when we are in a dialogue with the other civ for peace we get options lets 
 bury the hatchet and what would be the price or something like that.
  Try to place some amount like 1 or 2 gold in your dialogue. Take every thing or whatever u need 
 from other civ. menu. Like gold, resources and researches or even cities. And then click do u 
 agree with this
  Instantly another dialogue will occur saying that u cannot trade during peace talking 
  Well 
 at that time click ok 
  After clicking the ok button u will see the dialogue from do you accept this has changed to we 
 accept your offer.
  
  And then just click on the we accept your offer button. And wohooo all the resoures and researches 
 and even cities are now yours. ;) 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: cannyfox
Rating: 9.6
Date: Mar 8, 2006 4:10 am PT
Review:  I've been waiting for this for a while.
  
  Civilisation is one of the most enduring series ever to hit the PC, and it's only been improving 
 over the years.
  
  Several new facets have been added to this latest installment, including religion, which now has 
 an impact on both your civ and in the way that your opponents view you.
  
  The way you choose your civs also impact your relations, in a very similar way to Alpha Centauri.
 
  
  Other new items are the inclusion of Great People - engineers, scientists, artists - who can give 
 your civ a real boost in terms of money, production, science ... and culture.
  
  Culture is the newest and latest. Your influence is determined by the amount of culture your cities 
 generate ... it's actually possible to capture an enemy city by simply being influential ... and 
 it doesn't matter whether they are allies or not. There is absolutely no negative impact to your 
 relations.
  
  There is also a new horde of world wonders to build and tons of new technologies to research. The 
 graphics have been tremendously improved ... and the control system may take a bit of getting used 
 to for older civ players ... but its really not complicated.
  
  The only drawback to this game ... sadly, yes, there is one ... is the fact that the game does 
 get a bit bogged down towards the end stages ... simply a case of bad memory management in the 
 game coding ... I think. As far as I know there are patches now available to fix this problem ... 
 so it's not really a problem anymore ....
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: savvas79
Rating: 9.2
Date: Mar 7, 2006 1:36 am PT
Review:  Lets be clear! I am a huge fun of the Civ series! I have them all and I am going to continue buy 
 them! The one more turn syndrome cost me a lot of sleepless nights! ( and a lot of cups of coffee 
 at work!! ) . 
  
  Re - playability is probably the trademark of civ series! Every new game will unfold to something 
 new! But... Well i want to say this: where is the innovation!!?? Ok... I didn't expected something 
 radically new, but I feel some times that the only thing they add is better graphics ( which is 
 good but in a civ game i don' t care very much about graphics) ! The only aspect which probably 
 added a touch of different flavour is the religion system. Too little for a such a massive game!
 
  
  THe conclusion is that Civ4 will be again a game that will remain to my hard drive until Civ5 will 
 be released! But please make the trouble nextime to change the recipe a bit more! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: medrago
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 6, 2006 11:23 am PT
Review:  so first of all the graphics are great the living world and the resourses moving and making sounds 
 it added alot to the game.
  
  the sounds were fantastic! the water the music the religion all of the sounds were great o loves 
 them.
  
  the gameplay is great they improved the fighting so it will be more interesting the city managment 
 the actions of the workers the advisors and the short time of learning a new tech!
  they diplomacy all was greatly improved.
  my favorite thing was the religion spreading it across 
 the world making every one pay for their beliefs!
  i loved it.
  
  well if someone isnt sure of buying this game so buy it i really recomanding it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JohnOBX
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jan 29, 2007 12:21 pm PT
Review:  Well, if you like strategy type games of course. If you're more of a Doom type, then maybe you 
 won't enjoy Civ as much.
  
  The games has all the additctive traits of its predecessors and now has added much better graphics, 
 animations, more world variety and a better combat system. I like the changes to the spies (they 
 can't subvert cities anymore) , the new improvements, religion's new importance, the 'tailoring' 
 of your civics and making pollution something you can't just clean up with a Worker: it's an internal 
 problem now and a challenge later in the game. You will not be disappointed. The only reason I 
 did not rate this game a 10 was because of a noticible sluggishness (even with the latest patch) 
 in the larger maps. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gatekeeperlion
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 6, 2006 12:38 am PT
Review:  OMG! This is like ultimate gaming genius to the 10th power. What is there o say. Highly customizable 
 so anyone get get in on whatever level they like and the difficulty ranges from basic to unbeatable 
 without godlike strategy powers. They graphics won't have you showing off your new graphics card 
 (although it is a system hog on the larger maps) but even better than they needed to be. I'm still 
 not confident enough to try to take on any online opponets, until my skills are there so I can't 
 comment on that but just to be able to actually play online with friends is amazing. I won't go 
 on raving but if you like turn based strategy at all this game should be the first one on your 
 list to buy! So go and get it, beg con or steal what you need to get it (lol) because it is worth 
 it 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KickNAshHolez
Rating: 9.6
Date: Mar 5, 2006 5:23 pm PT
Review:  Xanax and Valium... really sleepy, too fun... kill the russians... need coffee.... too many words 
 to type... Tokugawa needs me.... Kyoto needs me.... gotta still play... been up too long.... need 
 to have more than one hundred characters.... am I done? Xanax and Valium... really sleepy, too fun... 
 kill the russians... need coffee.... too many words to type... Tokugawa needs me.... Kyoto needs 
 me.... gotta still play... been up too long.... need to have more than one hundred characters.... 
 am I done? Xanax and Valium... really sleepy, too fun... kill the russians... need coffee.... too 
 many words to type... Tokugawa needs me.... Kyoto needs me.... gotta still play... been up too 
 long.... need to have more than one hundred characters.... am I done? Xanax and Valium... really 
 sleepy, too fun... kill the russians... need coffee.... too many words to type... Tokugawa needs 
 me.... Kyoto needs me.... gotta still play... been up too long.... need to have more than one hundred 
 characters.... am I done? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lexidog
Rating: 9.4
Date: Mar 5, 2006 7:41 am PT
Review:  This game was 2k's first cilvilization game, I think they did a good job overall. If you played 
 cilization 3 you will notice that the fourth it is not as detailed as the 3rd but the update graphics 
 and a few new features Cilization IV is a great game for against AI or PvP. If your graphics card 
 is a newer one then the world in this game will look stuning. You can download maps, and scenarios 
 of certain websites in case you get bored of some their many game features. The only bad thing 
 about this game is that cavemen cannot destroy tanks anymore ;) ,ok if you never played the last 
 cililization game then you wouldn't get that joke hehe. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DeathSquad75
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 4, 2006 7:51 pm PT
Review:  Civilization IV is a good game overall, with a few minor setbacks. the main thing i noticed when 
 it came down to managing your civilization, is that it takes up either too much time, or doesn't 
 include you at all. the workers are all either under your control or they are fully automated. 
 controlling your workers individually never really became such a task until late in the game, when 
 i had a good 50 of them and would have to give them each orders for each turn. luckily the automations 
 were catergorized into the groups for easier management but once they had completed a job, such 
 as updating roads to railroads, they would stop and become useless unless you were to find them 
 and give them new orders, and on some of the larger maps and games, that is quite a task sometimes. 
 overall, the micromanagement of this game is really simple, which more than makes up for any other 
 sort of glitch or problem you may run into. definitely worth looking into, if turn based strategy 
 is your thing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cbence12286
Rating: 9.8
Date: Mar 4, 2006 7:33 pm PT
Review:  This game is all out fun right from the get go. Starting out in B. C. time go through the different 
 historical eras and defeat the enemy. Really self explanatory for the gameplay. Defeat. Defend. 
 and Conquer. The three main things to do in this game. But, don't forget to research or you will 
 not be able to get everything that you would like to. I most of the time build and research everything 
 that is recommended. The A. I. in this game is really hard. Play it on the easiest difficulty setting 
 and you will still have a challenge, but most likely you will succeed in conquering the world. 
 There is a large range of Empires to play as. Everyone from Franklin Roosevelt to Alexander the 
 Great and so on and so forth. If you like these kind of games definately give this one a try. So 
 worth $50 dollars. I think the shortest match that I actually finished all the way through lasted 
 around seven hours. I actually had it won in less than that by a United Nations decision, but then 
 went back and destroyed everyone. Graphics are good and gameplay is great. There is nothing bad 
 about this game. So go by it. If you are still reading this then you are wasting time, when you 
 could be playing this great game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gamerichard
Rating: 9.3
Date: Mar 4, 2006 1:46 pm PT
Review:  The Civilization series are among the best and most well-known games in history. And when a new 
 Civ game comes out the fans go wild, and I must say that I understand why!
  
  The graphics have never been Civilizations strongest side. The graphics in Civ 4 are very nice, 
 but they're not extraordinary. They do what they're supposed to do, and that's basicly it. All 
 the new movies are very good and look awesome, so the overall game ends up looking very saticfying.
 
  
  The sounds are just awesome. The music is perfect, cause it's smooth and never acts anoying. The 
 sound effects are also great though the combat effects are very basic. They don't really sound 
 that realistic, but they are great even though. All the different leaders have different music, 
 and the music even changes when zooming up close, and this is very cool. The music even changes 
 after a while so that it doesn't get tedious. 
  
  Civilization IV has got a very characteristic gameplay. You start off in the year of 4000 BC with 
 nothing more than a settler, and than you work your way researching technoligies and exploring 
 new land until 2050 AD. The years go by very fast in the beginning, cause they obviously used a 
 lot more time travelling and so on back then, and later on they go by one year for each turn. This 
 works very well and makes the game go on at a pretty fast pace. One whole Civ game can take from 
 45 minutes to 8 hours or so, and the fact that you can't feel time blazing by is quite scary actually. 
 Suddenly it's way after bedtime and you're still sitting there playing like crazy. The game actually 
 features an alarm for you to activate so that you don't sit all day long!! Cool! This is actually 
 the one bad thing about the game, cause you can't sit down with Civ 4 and except not to wipe out 
 the whole day! Food, sleep, work-out, and friends all become irrelevent when playing Civ 4, and 
 that's scary indeed. As you might have figured out, the gameplay in Civilization IV is amazing. 
 You build cities and improve upon them with farms, towns and additional add-ons. The management 
 of your cities are one of the most important things in this game. You tell your citizens where 
 to work, hire priests and engineers, and build various buildings and units. There's a ton of things 
 to do and the 200 pages long manual clearly punctuates this. There are six different ways of winning 
 in Civ 4. 1: You have the most game points when you reach the year of 2050 AD. 2: You're voted 
 world leader by the United Nations. 3: You're the first to put a man on the moon! 4: You dominate 
 most of the map, and most of the world population. 5: You conquer the enemy. 6: Three of your cities 
 reaches legendary culture status. All the different winning conditions are great and gives the 
 game a good variation. The fact that the game has no campaign is quite awesome, you just start 
 up games over and over again! I could have written 10 pages about this game cause there's so much 
 to tell. But I'm telling you, if you like strategy games, you should really check out Civ 4.
  
  +
  Fine graphics and overall presentation. A lot of different tunes that are all very nice. 
 The gameplay is incredibly good and absorbing. All the different winning conditions. The music 
 in the main menu is breathtaking! All the different world leaders to choose from. There's allways 
 something to learn.
  
  -
  The fact that your whole day and social life goes bye-bye! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tomdogg
Rating: 5.7
Date: Jun 16, 2006 12:02 pm PT
Review:  Is this some kind of joke? This game looked good but turned out to be extremely boring. I thought 
 it was going to be more like Empire Earth 2 but no. The developers were cutting this game out to 
 be one of the best games ever, but it really turned out to be very dissapointing. This is easily 
 one of the most boring games that I have ever played in my entire life!!! While the graphics may 
 be okay and the sound beautiful, the quality of the gameplay is unbelievably not amazing.
  
  Graphics- 7/10
  The graphics are okay I guess. The environments look nice, and the character 
 models are passable enough. I would have like to rate these graphics a little higher but the framerate 
 sucks. It just becomes attrocious when there are too many units up on the screen, and that should 
 not happen. 
  
  Sound- 9/10
  The music is beautiful! Using some sort of african type music and the flute of cource, they have 
 just perfected the sound part of this game. The music obviously had a lot of effort put into it. 
 So, why couldn't they do the same with the gameplay?
  
  Gameplay- 5/10
  The most disappointing gameplay to ever appear on the PC (Other than big rigs...) The main problem 
 is that it's too hard, and the learning curve is too long. The only thing to do is build an empire 
 and then watch it fall, that's it. The combat is slow paced, and not very exciting and all the 
 other bonus aspect of the gameplay creat one big annoyance. The combat is like checkers and when 
 enemy units clash, the only thing that happens is a small FMV of them killing eachother. Empire 
 Earth 2 I liked because it was easy and fun to play but not this game. Very very boring...
  
  Overall, I didn't like this game except for the music. If only the developers made it a little 
 easier and more exciting, I would have gladly given this game a higher score. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: councelor12
Rating: 9.4
Date: Mar 3, 2006 7:33 pm PT
Review:  Honestly, this is a really good game. I have played every one of the Civ series, and it just keeps 
 getting better and better all the time. The way the science works is a little different. It takes 
 a little while to get used to it, since you can't build railroads once you find coal, you need 
 the railroad science advance. But those are just minor things. Religion is also new to this game, 
 but it really doesn't play that much of a factor. I usually don't use it, but every now and then 
 I dabble in it. You definately don't need it to win, however. 
  
  The endgames do bog down still, at least on my computer. And depending on how many civs there are 
 and how big the map is, it can take a minute or two. But it's not TOO bad, it doesn't distract 
 me too much. 
  
  Some of the good: I really like the way the AI is with the different Civs. It really plays more 
 of a factor in this game. You not only need to watch how you relate to the other civs, but how 
 they relate to each other too. I've found myself having war declared on me by 3 civs because of 
 one bad move with one of them. Yes, this can be a pain, but I love the way it adds to the game. 
 The game play is simply fun, there are less cities overall, but that makes the game focus on each 
 city to make them the best, rather than just having a whole lot of little, unproductive cities.
 
  
  All in all, definately a good spend. If you like the Civ games, go out and buy this one. If you 
 haven't gotten into them, it might not be the best to start out with, but if you're daring, give 
 it a try. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: doom_x107
Rating: 9.7
Date: Mar 3, 2006 12:51 am PT
Review:  this is a great game for people who like turn based strategy games. it is the best computer game 
 i have ever played. the graphics are good and great sound. it is easy to play good fun and it took 
 a while for me to complete one game!
  there are lots of people to choose from and it is fun trading and talking to other leaders. you 
 can choose to have war or not and even your friends can turn against you if you choose the wrong 
 person. this is the ideal game for anyone who likes even any kind of strategy games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: grasu
Rating: 9.3
Date: Mar 2, 2006 7:37 am PT
Review:  The sad thing about PC gaming is that, much too often, developers mess with a proven formula to 
 try and create something new. Examples of this abound, but perhaps the most poignant is 2003's 
 Heroes of Might and Magic 4 which turned out to be a disastrous "reinvention" of the series. It's 
 no wonder that when gamers heard about all the new and "improved" features in Civilization 4 they 
 were ready to perform hara-kiri on themselves. Luckily for us they didn't have to, because Civilization 
 4 turned out to be one of the best games in the series.
  
  In the world of gaming the "Civilization" name has quite the resonating thuddd to it, thanks to 
 its simple premise yet hopelessly addictive gameplay. This hasn't really changed in the latest 
 itineration of the series, which challenges would-be world rulers to lead a nation from the early 
 Stone Age to the bright and sunny future of space exploration. While on the road to victory civilizations 
 deploy new weapons, learn new skills, discover new technologies, forge alliances and destroy enemies 
 as well as expanding their own borders through the use of religion or culture. Of course, things 
 are never as simple as they seem, and Civilization hides layers upon layers of complexity beneath 
 what seems like a simple exterior. Those layers are essentially what has been changed in Civilization 
 4.
  
  No sooner will gamers install Civ 4 than will they notice changes in everything from interface 
 to music. After watching the game's CG intro players are presented with a digitized picture of 
 Earth and a simple, yet intuitive, menu. The background music is much different from the sober 
 and foreboding sounds of the first 3 Civilization games, being replaced by a slightly "happier" 
 tune accompanied by vocals in what seems to be some sort of African language. From here on, selecting 
 a game and playing is an easy as clicking on the first option and then selecting a personality, 
 the new "face" of the nations in the game. Civilization 4 does away with specific nation names 
 and replaces them with different personalities, which define their civilizations, rather than the 
 other way around. For example the Americans have George Washington and Frederick D. Roosevelt while 
 the Greeks have Alexander the Great as their leader. Each leader has any two of eight attributes. 
 Some of the attributes are pretty self explanatory (such as Aggressive or Financial) but others, 
 such as Creative (which grants a civilization +2 culture per turn) are a little harder to guess 
 without the use of a manual.
  
  After choosing a leader, and adjusting the game's parameters to one's specific needs, the game 
 is ready to begin. The shock and awe that most gamers will feel when gazing at the graphics can 
 only be truly understood by long-time Civ fanatics. For a TBS game these graphics are simply amazing; 
 rivers flow freely through the land, birds fly away when soldiers enter forests, and the animals 
 on the map graze freely. The zoom feature allows a birds-eye-view of the whole globe but it also 
 takes the place of the City View, allowing players to zoom in close enough to see even the smallest 
 details of their cities. Everything is beautifully animated and most units now receive "battle 
 damage", by either being slowly ripped to pieces or by losing one of the contingent's soldiers 
 (most units now come in packs of 2 or 3) . Once settled cities now sprawl out through the land, 
 taking over more and more land as workers build improvements, mines or pastures; in a word everything 
 is simply breath taking.
  
  Along with the graphics, the authentic sounds for each nation (English soldiers answer in English 
 while Roman ones in Latin) along with the good use of sound effects, which are neither muffled 
 nor lost in the perfect timing of the music, greatly enhance gameplay. The music is also a throw 
 back to the older days of Civilization, as Civ 4 uses remixed tunes from Civilization 1 during 
 diplomacy and during a number of other sequences in the game. While technically the game is an 
 astounding cutting edge achievement in its genre, it's the gameplay that clearly distinguishes 
 Civilization 4 from other TBS games.
  
  Gameplay still follows the same flow as before: Players build a city, and then either chose to 
 improve it or they continue expanding by purchasing more settlers. What makes Civ 4 different is 
 the way it handles expansion and tile-improvements: There are now numerous resources that can only 
 be gathered by building structures on the map using your workers. Technology also takes a far more 
 important role in the way your workers go about their business. In Civ 4 workers don't start out 
 with a plethora of skills such as mining, irrigation, or the ability to cut down forests; everything 
 has to be discovered before workers can perform ANY sort of action outside of building roads. Water 
 tiles also fall into this new category with special workboats and resources that need to be exploited 
 by employing small workboats. Even the properties of the tile improvements have drastically change: 
 It's now fairly useless to build a huge network of roads covering every square inch of your empire 
 as roads don't bring as much commerce as in previous Civilization games.
  
  Expansion has also gone through some serious changes: Corruption and city revolts have been removed. 
 In their place each new city costs a certain amount of money to upkeep. The farther the city is 
 from the capital the more money it cots to supply it. The only way to make these cities into gold 
 producing cities is to raise their population or build courthouses or other buildings that reduce 
 the cost of maintaining these cities. City revolts have now been replaced by a new unhappiness 
 system, which slows down production if citizens become routy, and the new health system, which 
 horribly slows down growth (and makes cities a serious liability) . Building temples or churches 
 to boost happiness and aqueducts or hospitals to boost the latter can solve both of these problems. 
 Finally, workers can also gather resources, which can boost either happiness or health in any city 
 connected, by a road or other trade route (such as a sea port) to that resource.
  
  Another huge change has to deal with building orders: Mostly everything in the city screen has 
 changed. You can now build settlers from cities with 1 population without losing the city, however 
 cities completely stop growing while building either settlers or workers. No longer can you transfer 
 credits from one building or unit to another: Now, if you switch half-way through the completion 
 of a warrior to a temple for example, the warrior is placed on hold and the temple starts from 
 zero. In the case of wonders you're given a financial compensation if someone beats you in the 
 race for the completion of a wonder. But perhaps most importantly nearly ALL of the buildings in 
 Civ 4 have been revamped: Aqueducts no longer fuel growth they provide health, courthouses no longer 
 decrease corruption they decrease the cost of maintaining cities, forges are now pre-modern factories, 
 lighthouses increase trade routes, etc. Wonders have also gotten a major touch up, with many name 
 changes as well as effect changes: Old favorites such as the Pyramids or J. S. Bach Cathedral return 
 with new names or effects. Furthermore, now there are "religious shrines" which can only be built 
 by the founders of a specific religion and they bring in +1 gold for every city in which that religion 
 is present. Finally, the city view has been removed and the building interface is now clearly split 
 up between different sections such as military units or wonders.
  
  Religion is probably the single biggest addition to Civ 4 and while it's not perfect, it's not 
 nearly as atrocious as it was in Activision's Call to Power. Civ 4 has 7 religions including Christianity, 
 Buddhism and Islam. They all have the same powers and advantages so no religion is superior to 
 another. The main uses of religion is to either keep your people happy with temples or to spread 
 it around the world in order to get a bunch of goddies such as gold bonuses, culture bonuses or 
 diplomacy bonuses. Religion can be spread with the use of missionaries, which can only be built 
 a few at-a-time so that the map isn't overflowed with them. The reason why religion works in Civ 
 4 is because the game really doesnt put too much emphasis on it: The main reasons for religion 
 being in the game seem to be to add a new layer to diplomatic relations, governments and to provide 
 players with another way to earn culture and gold. Keep in mind however that it's fairly hard to 
 win a game of Civ 4 if you haven't founded a religion, by discovering it before everyone else, 
 as funding religions gives you the ability to spread them and build the religious wonders. It's 
 also nearly impossible to win a culture or score game without spreading your religion, which can 
 be both a blessing and a pain in the ass (no pun intended, IN EITHER CASE) .
  
  Perhaps the second biggest change to the Civilization universe comes with the new "civics system" 
 which replaces the old government system. Now, instead of selecting a government, which binds you 
 to a strict definition of what your morals and political inclinations should be, you are able to 
 choose those morals. The civics system allows players to chose how to deal with religion, whether 
 to encourage freedom of religion or whether to organize a democracy, how to elect leaders and even 
 how much freedom to allow their people, from slavery to emancipation. This is yet another addition 
 that works wonderfully and allows players to govern how THEY want, not how the government they 
 chose says. It also opens up new possibilities in diplomacy allowing you to "convert" people to 
 a specific civic (such as Free Speech) .
  
  Civ 4's deep diplomatic system also makes a return with a few much needed additions. The most important 
 additions to diplomacy are the ability to negotiate open borders, which makes those pain in the 
 ass AI settlers, and/or warriors walking all throughout your territory a thing of the past. Additionally 
 you can now also see WHY the AI hates you so much. An intuitive list of pros/cons of your diplomatic 
 relationship with the AI can easily be displayed by scrolling over their leader-head. And speaking 
 of AI, Civilization 4 definitely brings some improvements in that department: The AI is far more 
 reasonable in diplomacy and far more apt at building and sending spaceships to Alpha Centaury than 
 ever before. It also builds barracks now and actually takes the time to upgrade their forces from 
 prehistoric warriors to more modern soldiers. Needless to say that the AI is also as ruthless as 
 ever and it can just as easily and psychotically turn on you after hundreds of years of peace as 
 it did in other Civ games.
  
  The gameplay areas that have probably received the least amount of changes are the research and 
 the military. For the research portion, this is quite good because this part of the Civilization 
 series always worked well as it was. Despite Firaxis saying that players now have a greater degree 
 of freedom when choosing which technology goals to pursue the system is still pretty much linear, 
 which is great because this is both realistic and it streamlines the process to perfection. Outside 
 of a few name changes, a few additions and a few reorganized technologies the tech tree is as intact 
 in Civ 4 as it was in the original Civilization. The military portion on the other hand, could've 
 used a few crucial tweaks. While Civ 4 has a boat load of units ranging from archers, to knights 
 in shining armor, to elephants or tanks they're all seemingly unable to beat an ancient age spearman 
 when need be. It doesn't matter that Firaxis removed the veterancy system replacing it with a new 
 "ability" system that's even more useless than the previous system as it features such "abilities" 
 as 10% extra strength (which is useless for 3/4ths of the game) , it also doesn't matter that they 
 fused attack and defense into one strength value, nor does it matter that they now give you a clear 
 cut statistic of how likely you are to win or lose a battle because a modern age helicopter can 
 still be taken down by a spearman. And the thing is that this happens in Civ 4 just as much as 
 it did in Civ 3 and it's just as irritating to see tank after tank lose to 600-year old gunpowder 
 infantry. Until this balance issue is fixed Civ 4 has a nearly deadly flaw.
  
  Luckily however military conquest is not the only way to win in Civilization 4. Players can attempt 
 to grab a victory any number of ways including cultural domination, winning the space race or winning 
 the UN elections. The changes to most of these victory conditions are minimal and they're clear 
 reflections of the actual gameplay changes: For example religion has become a huge role in culture 
 victories and you can now propose a series of resolution for the UN instead of just ending the 
 game with your election as general secretary. Everything can still be customized from the main 
 menu including victory conditions, size of the map, climate and even whether or not nations are 
 always at war or peace. Finally, players can also dive into one of a handful of scenarios, which 
 try to replicate real world or fantasy maps such as Earth or Circular World.
  
  Multiplayer Civilization 4 is still as fun as ever... if you're playing with friends around a computer. 
 The hot seat games have remained the staple of the series and they're loads of fun. The Civ 4 multiplayer 
 experience itself is still as tense and epic as ever with players racing for technologies, rushing 
 or trying to explore the map in order to place their enemies on it. Online however is still a dream 
 that's not very likely to come true. Not only were a few promising features such as a permanent 
 Pit Boss, which would keep games running for long periods of time and allow players to come and 
 make their moves and then leave, but the whole concept simply isn't working out. Civ 4 is best 
 when played with friends and with people who have patience for long drawn games that might take 
 hours to finish, not with the trigger happy gamers of Gamespy. And while Firaxis desperately tries 
 to please them all with 3 game lengths ranging from short 2-3 hour games to "Epic" day or week-long 
 games it's still not enough to change the fact that people go online to play Counter Strike for 
 30 minutes, not Civilization for 3 hours.
  
  Civ 4 is one of the few happy examples of a series which was able to improve, if not reinvent itself, 
 yet still keep the fun and recognizable nature of past games. While Civ 4 is not a perfect game 
 it's one of the best PC games you can buy and it's the premiere modern TBS game. With a few more 
 expansion packs, and perhaps a few patches, maybe even the battle system will improve and the permanent 
 Pit Boss might actually make online multiplayer fun but even as it is, Civ 4 is a stupendous game 
 that shouldn't be missed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wolflegresley
Rating: 9.3
Date: Mar 2, 2006 6:30 am PT
Review:  This game took me right from the start. Was totally unique and fun. The amazing ammount of strategies 
 was nice to see and the difficulty of winning by a military conquest would require an all out military 
 strategy from the start. This game was awsome. A little easy on the low settings, really hard on 
 the high settings. The diffrent victory conditions are great for it allows all types of players 
 a way to win, and in esseence gives this game increadble replay value. THe high score list the 
 online play is intresting tho a bit dull at lower levels and a bit overwheliming in later years. 
 If you dont play this game you will be missing out someday. A bit of a resource hog. An amazing 
 soundtrack (I even aquired the soundtrack for me to lestin to when I wish to relax) Simply put 
 this one of my all time favorite strategy games.. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: frikadunse
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 2, 2006 4:08 am PT
Review:  I've played the entire series, and this one is the best yet!
  
  As there is 300+ reviews I'll try to make it short. 
  The game play is good paced, and very intuitive 
 (if you played any of the others in the series) 
  
  I like the expanded politics/ religion ect. settings, that make the management of a civilization 
 more realistic. 
  
  Game play is as always, lovely long, some times frustrating but mostly, you just hope the game 
 will never end.
  
  That bring me to the only let -down of the game (or the series) : You have to rush in the start 
 of the game, and if you get of on the wrong leg, you might as well re-start the game, because winning 
 will be VERY hard!
  
  All in all 10/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jond777
Rating: 9.4
Date: Feb 28, 2006 12:03 pm PT
Review:  I've never played any of the Civilization games before. I'm a veteran/addict of the Impressions 
 series of City building games and have dabbled in other turn-based strategy games (Empire Earth, 
 Age of Empires/Mythology) . I have to admit that one of the reasons I tried CIV is because I bought 
 Pirates! and found it to be thoroughly enjoyable for a short time (then it became too repetitive) . 
 After trying the demo I was sufficiently impressed to part with my hard-earned fifty bucks and 
 give this a whirl. That was a week ago and my wife is ready to throw me out of the house.
  
  Rather than writing a full review when there are close to five hundred others to read, let 
 me talk about what impresses me most about the game. The clever and sophisticated design of the 
 game allows a player the option of letting the AI take over and make many of the decisions until 
 you are familiar enough with the game to want to take more control. During your first game, most 
 players (as I did) will likely take the game's advice at every turn and construct the projects 
 and research the technologies it recommends. With each passing game, you will learn more about 
 the intricacies and gradually take more control over the decision making. It's fascinating to think 
 about the limitless possibilities when you combine different strategies with different civilizations, 
 terrains, strategies, etc... You can try any one or more approaches of domination through military, 
 cultural, religious, or economic domination.
  
  Obviously, the game is not for everyone. It's going to appeal to the strategists and creative types, 
 but not so much the pure shoot 'em up, adrenaline junkies. But you probably already knew that. 
 Given the fact that I've played Caesar III for about four years now, I think I'll be enjoying this 
 one for a long, long time.
  
  One closing comment. The "Learning Curve" is deceiving. You can learn enough of the basics from 
 the tutorial to be functional - especially if you're familiar with the typical strategy game interface 
 controls. However, the scope of this game is so huge that you will spend many, many, many more 
 hours learning all of the subtle details and strategic implications of the different aspects of 
 the game.
  
  Sid rocks.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: wwlettsome
Rating: 7.5
Date: Feb 28, 2006 8:44 am PT
Review:  I'll start off by saying that I have been a fan of this series since the first Civilization came 
 out why back when. And I have enjoyed them all, but it feels to me like the primary evolution in 
 this series was in the jump from the first Civ to the second one and the itierations since then 
 have felt more like Civ 2 version 2.0 and 3.0 versus a real sequel. 
  
  I suppose that for the real hardcore Civ fan that really understands this game in a lot more depth 
 then I ever will there have been enough tweaks under the hood to create an opportunity for some 
 new strategic choices, but I am still able to use pretty much the identical strategies that I have 
 always used to build up an empire and win the game. And to me that's the heart of the issue. I 
 realize that any sequel is just that, not a unique game. However for a sequel to be worth $50 of 
 my money it needs to bring something unique or innovative to the table.
  
  For me Civ 4 fails to pass that test.
  
  I highly recommend this game to anyone with an interest 
 in strategy games who has never played any of the previous versions of this game. And I highly 
 recommed this game to the most hardcore fans of this series. Everyone else, I suggest you wait 
 until it hits the sales rack or go back and play one of the previous games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: doops
Rating: 7.6
Date: Feb 27, 2006 9:08 am PT
Review:  Civilization IV is a very intriguing and interesting game at first, but after a few hours of playing 
 it, it starts becoming slightly repetitive. It is especially redundant when you start as a whole 
 new leader, and you basically go through the same motions over and over again. I guess if you are 
 a big strategy game/ history enthusiast, yoo will ike this game, because of it's interesting development 
 system as you get deeper into the game. If you are now a big time strategy game player, you probably 
 will not find any joy in playing this game after the first few hours. I don't especially dislike 
 this game, I just would rather play a number of other games than try over and over again to do 
 the same things, only with different people. On the positive side this game has a plethora of different 
 kinds of soldiers, ships, planes, and ground units. It also allows you to build "world wonders" 
 which will make your people happier. There is more than one way to win this game, you can either 
 go to the moon first, finish with the most property after you go to war and take other people's 
 land, and finally by building all of the "world wonders". This is a good game, but can get redundant 
 if you are not very interested in this genre of games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: adventure98
Rating: 9.6
Date: Feb 26, 2006 2:25 pm PT
Review:  This is simply the best. I heard about this from many friends of mine and they were all very pleased 
 with all the previous Civilizations. I personally have not played any of the previous installations, 
 but this one is the best one to have come out. A true masterpiece. It hooks you instantly. It's 
 extremely addictive, yet so good. It's worth every last penny. The graphics are amazing. And I 
 thought civ 3 was good... this is better than best. the soundtrack is extremely immersive. They 
 fit the moment perfectly. I might not be able to go back to playing any other games. :) GO SID!! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: axw3rm31
Rating: 9.2
Date: Feb 26, 2006 2:20 pm PT
Review:  Ever since you meet your first world leader, until you conquer your first civilization this game 
 will have you excited and hooked. The only person I wouldn't recommend this to is a gamer that 
 doesn't have a lot of time on his hands.
  Gameplay: That being said you don't have to be playing this game for hours and hours on end since 
 you can choose different game speeds from normal to marathon which really gives this game something 
 for all gamers.
  Graphics: While not as good as some other Turn-Based Strategy games the graphics are definately 
 a huge step up from the other games in the series and you wouldn't really notice the graphics once 
 you really get immersed in this game.
  
  Sound: While the gameplay sounds are nothing new the music is wonderful since there is unique music 
 from every nation. Also what really steps up the sound rating is because the game is narrated by 
 Leannord Nemoy.
  
  So in all Civilization IV is an awsome game for all types of gamers that will have you hooked for 
 who knnows how long. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lvijw
Rating: 9.6
Date: Feb 26, 2006 1:13 pm PT
Review:  Ever since you meet your first world leader, until you conquer your first civilization this game 
 will have you excited and hooked. The only person I wouldn't recommend this to is a gamer that 
 doesn't have a lot of time on his hands.
  Gameplay: That being said you don't have to be playing this game for hours and hours on end since 
 you can choose different game speeds from normal to marathon which really gives this game something 
 for all gamers.
  Graphics: While not as good as some other Turn-Based Strategy games the graphics are definately 
 a huge step up from the other games in the series and you wouldn't really notice the graphics once 
 you really get immersed in this game.
  
  Sound: While the gameplay sounds are nothing new the music is wonderful since there is unique music 
 from every nation. Also what really steps up the sound rating is because the game is narrated by 
 Leannord Nemoy.
  
  So in all Civilization IV is an awsome game for all types of gamers that will have you hooked for 
 who knnows how long. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: svig
Rating: 8.7
Date: Feb 25, 2006 9:38 pm PT
Review:  As in the previous games your job in Civ IV is to guide a people from its puerile state 4000 years 
 BC into being the dominant civilization in the year 2000. You can choose between a wide range of 
 civilizations from Cesars Romans to Montezumas Aztecs. Each civilization has its own unique strengths 
 and weaknesses as well as exclusive units that only they posses. 
  
  One of the things that have been extensively enhanced in Civ IV is diplomacy and a lot of the goals 
 for your flourishing civilization are best solved thru diplomacy. However should diplomacy fail 
 you can always resort to war. 
  
  The new interface is easy to comprehend and use and the powerful 3D engine does a great job of 
 bringing your world to live. All in all Civilization IV is a highly addictive game that takes the 
 Civ series to a new level. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: djnet
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 25, 2006 1:09 pm PT
Review:  Civ IV has also improved on the way diplomacy works. While you can still make nice with your neighbors 
 (and you can even win the game with a diplomatic victory condition) , you have more options than 
 just trading goods, cities, technologies, and/or relations. You can attempt to influence your neighbors 
 to make war or peace with other neighbors, and you can even fence everyone out of your backyard 
 using the game's new "open borders" system. In previous games, neighboring nations could send their 
 city-building settlers and their soldiers wandering across your nation, free to declare war on 
 your vulnerable home cities and worker civilians unless you complained strenuously (which sometimes 
 caused them to declare war anyway) . In Civ IV, the new border system means that no units from any 
 other country can enter yours unless you have agreed to open borders with that particular country... or 
 unless you're at war with that particular country. This is a godsend for defensive players who 
 prefer to hang back to develop an economic, scientific, or cultural infrastructure without fear 
 of ambush. However, even this new addition is balanced, since keeping your borders locked up tightly 
 and never coming to your neighbors' aid doesn't make many friends. Other nations actually remember 
 your actions and are poorly disposed if you refuse them too many favors. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NGMattAC
Rating: 9.3
Date: Feb 25, 2006 12:13 pm PT
Review:  I haven't played the other Civilization games, but I was amazed at the game play and the AI. It 
 does get a little choppy sometimes, but it's awesome to see a World Wonder being built and see 
 your civilization grow over time. It's like a new version of Sims! Only better. I like the way 
 you can choose to be a leader and and actually be the leader himself. Also the huge selection of 
 civilizations, from Italy to Greece, from Germany to India, is astounding. You can even talk face 
 to face with leaders as well. Increase your relations with them by trading and becoming allies 
 with their allies. The narration by Leonard Nimoy is also cool. The modifications are'nt that bad 
 either. I thought there should have been more units and more wonders. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RobNyack
Rating: 9.4
Date: Feb 25, 2006 9:21 am PT
Review:  Civ IV is such a deep involving game, that I just don't think there is anyway to adaquately review 
 this game. You would have to write a thesis paper on the thing to do it justice!
  
  But, the game is so good, and so deeply involving, you literally cannot stop playing. It's always 
 "one more turn, and then i'm going to bed". Next thing you know it's been 30 more turns and it's 
 2AM in the morning!
  
  The beauty of the game.... you can get involved as deep as you want, or as shallow as you want. 
 There is nothing that says you have to understand everything about a city and how they work and 
 what does what, and all that, but if you want to know, you can get really deep into the game. If 
 not, you can still have a good romp playing this game.
  
  The improvements from Civ III are noticable right from the get go. It's still a Civ game, there 
 is no mistaking that, but the graphics have been greatly enhanced, the sound has been greatly enhanced, 
 the AI (which has always been good) has been greatly enhanced, and the multiplayer has been enhanced 
 out of this world! Civ IV is, in every respect, a much better game than Civ III..... and let's not 
 forget, Civ III was truly a great game!
  
  I love this game. My partner hates it because it's all I do now. :)
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Advocate
Rating: 2
Date: Feb 23, 2006 9:44 am PT
Review:  After being horribly scolled following my purchase of Civ 3, one of the most frustrating and decidedly 
 discourging games I have ever boughten, I should have known better than to waste my time and more 
 importantly my money, on this one. But I said "what the helk" and went for it hoping it was better. 
 Well I am $50.00 poor and only about $0.02 cents smarter for my effort. This game is broken just 
 like it predicessor and that really is sad. Mostly this game is same old crap differant roman numberal. 
 I think this genra is pretty much dead now. Time to lay this civilization to rest and let history 
 tend to itself. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: theking52
Rating: 7.8
Date: Feb 22, 2006 9:28 pm PT
Review:  FIrst time i played Civ IV... i had sleepless nights just as GS had warned :P.
  But then once i played an entire game, i tried playing again but just couldn't stay into it the 
 way i was when during my first game.
  
  Graphics: Certainly improved over Civ III but still not all that great compared to other turn based 
 strategy games. for eg: Rome doesn't have great maps but the combat makes it up for the graphics. 
 then there's Heroes of might and magic where the strategic maps are the best graphically in any 
 turn based strategy.
  
  Sound: all i can say is... the main theme. i love that theme, i still have the game on my computer 
 just cuz of that now seeing as i hardly play it. i just like to see the intro movie. other than 
 that the sound is just... ok not great.
  
  Gameplay: again its pretty good and was awesome through the first time but now i see its very repetitive 
 and the games take SOOO long to finish (for me anyways) .
  
  value: if you like civilization games in general then this will last a very long time. i played 
 Civ II and III and compared to IV i pretty much didn't even play the other two.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: HoundDawgDP
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 22, 2006 9:28 am PT
Review:  I played most of the old Civ games including Alpha Centauri and Colonization and thought that I 
 was done with turn-based games. With this latest release of Civ IV, it brought up a lot of good 
 memories. 
  
  This is one of those games, that is very addicting and has never been replaced by anything else 
 to date. So, I purchased it and have been addicted to it ever since. I don't have as much time 
 to play games like I did years ago, but this is one where I can play for an hour, save and pick 
 up later when I have time. I guess that's one of the true benefits to turn-based.
  
  The improvements to the game have been awesome. Many of the tedious features of the past have been 
 removed and you can tell a lot more quality went into this version. 
  
  Now, if only Blizzard can finally give us Starcraft II, we'd have the best 2 RTS games re-birthed, 
 both turn-based and real-time. After all, if nobody has been able to deliver the same level of 
 gameplay experience over the many years, might as well upgrade the classics. Civ IV is a clear 
 example of success. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Eliteshooter
Rating: 9.3
Date: Feb 21, 2006 11:08 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay-9/10
  Well the game play of Civilization IV is really fun. One nice thing about the game is that you 
 start off as like warriors settlers etc and then u can like evolve them into like into people in 
 now days like holding a gun shooting people's heads off its just an awsome stratagey game. So i 
 think you can give this game a shot.
  
  Graphics-10/10 
  Well i acually thought the graphics were pretty nice from far view but.... when your up close right 
 in there face it looks a little flat. But everything eles 
  about the graphics were really nice.
  
  Sound-10/10
  One thing i like the best about the 
 game was the sound because the weapon slashes sound so good the lions roaring wolves howling .
 
  
  *I cant really say anything about the difficulty becasue u can set your difficulty* 
::::::

::::::
UserName: beatdown124
Rating: 6.5
Date: Feb 21, 2006 6:43 pm PT
Review:  i have always loved the civ games when i got civ3 it was amazing how easy it was to interact with 
 the world around you but sadly in this title there is no longer this easy to work with the world 
 around you. this is a good game but civ3 i belive is a better alternitive to this expensive new 
 game. do to this loss of control it no longer feels like the bourdgame it use to. In this siries 
 i always belived that the combat needed work such a i had an a tank that was defeated by a long 
 bow niether having a strong defense bounus. the upgrades on the units is great but sadly the did 
 away with armies and runened the naviel combat wich i belive was great the lowered the amount of 
 naval units. and ruind wonder insted of game changing buildings they dont do $#!: 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bdog32
Rating: 7.9
Date: Feb 21, 2006 3:12 pm PT
Review:  When i first bought the game, didn' t run. So i did what is said updated my video drivers and it 
 ran, for a little bit. It would just crash back to the desktop every 5 - 20 turns, getting worse 
 the longer the game. And oh yea it would also restart my computer. I waited for the patch. When 
 it came it fixed none of my problems. 
  I love the Civ games that is why i bought it so blindly. The latest patch seems to finally fix 
 it, somewhat. Civ IV still crashes, but i can play for hours and hours before it does, and sometimes 
 it doesn't :) Now i'm finally enjoying the game, 3 months after it came out. They should have perfected 
 their beta version of the game instead of releasing it.
  Now that i'm through griping, I love the game. If you love the civ games this is another great 
 one. Not much changes, the religion is a fun thing to play with but once you get to the late middle 
 ages and go to free religion it doesn't matter at all. Not much i can add to the other reviews 
 just wanted to get my grip in. 
  And the only nuke i saw was the ICBM, i miss being able to put a tactical nuke and a nuclear sub. 
 Also, they only put one sub type in the game. There should be a conventional and nuclear powered 
 sub, like in Civ III. 
  
  And the learning curve is for someone new to Civ. If you know Civ 5 min.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheChickenBoo
Rating: 9.1
Date: Feb 21, 2006 2:57 pm PT
Review:  The Game Is Extremely Improved. A Few Good Things Are The Only Play, Which Has Been Totally Revamped 
 So Now You Can Play A Full Game, Plus The Major Fact That A Battleship Can No Longer Lose To Say 
 A Catapult. Although The Lattter Really Does Need More Work It Is Much Improved. I Really Enjoyed 
 The Custom Soundtrack Feature But It Needs A Fix So The Music Won't Stop When A New Reasearch Is 
 Discovered. I Think This Game Could Not Have Been Better, The Only Thing I Would Ask Is If They 
 Try To Work On The Stacking Exploit. I Absolutely Hate That. Sid Meier, Try To Fix This Please! 
 I Would Deffinetly Recommend This Game To Anyone Who Is A Long Time Civilization Fan, And For Newbies 
 Too As It Is A Great Game If You Just Get Bored Of All Your Other Games. Not To Mention This Game 
 Takes Little Graphic And Proscessor Power So It HAS TO BE THE ULTIMATE ROAD TRIP GAME EVER! That 
 Is Of Course If You Own A Laptop. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: neo5514
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 20, 2006 5:23 pm PT
Review:  this game is so fun. this was my first ever civ. game and i herd a lot of good reviews and so i 
 bought it. you can do so much stuff. i founded all these religios and made peace with everyone 
 then decided to go to war with one and i almost took over his nation. the way the game playes is 
 turnbase witch i dont usually like but this is an exeption this game is just plain fun to play 
 and the games can last really long if you want them to. Just be prepared to be at your computer 
 for hours and hours and hours non stop fun just got game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MistahE
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 20, 2006 1:06 pm PT
Review:  I've been playing the Civilization series since the early 1990s. Civilization IV is almost perfect. 
 They really looked at what fans wanted and what would make it a great game for diehard followers 
 and the casual new gamer alike. Anyone can play it, from my girlfriend to my hardcore gaming best 
 friend. It has incredible strategy depth, fun atmosphere, and a well designed interface. The community 
 following the game is amazing too. I've never seen a video game I enjoyed reading about as much 
 as playing as CIV. The more you learn the more you appreciate just how awesome the game is. The 
 developers seriously almost thought of everything. And if there is something you don't like, it 
 is HIGHLY moddable. 
  
  If the thought of leading a group of settlers in 4000 BC to become the greatest empire earth has 
 ever seen sounds remotely interesting, buy the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ThieveryCo
Rating: 9.3
Date: Feb 20, 2006 9:50 am PT
Review:  I've started playing PC games with Civ1 with my 3.86. From one release to the other, Sid Meyers 
 strategy masterpiece was revolutionay and kept consuming all my free time. Civ3 was a major breakthrough 
 bringing new diplomacy aspects and AI to increase the deepness and challenge of the game. This 
 time, with Civ4, the challenge was raised to a new level. All the new aspects like the religions 
 are making the game more complicated but more complete and closer to the reality. Also, many tasks 
 are now automated, like the "auto-explore" option for the units and all the tasks that can be automated 
 by the workers. These automations allows the gamer to concentrate on the real amazing and strategic 
 aspects of the game and let the micro-management being automated. Finaly, all the new system of 
 experience points and promotions also add more fun and strategy to the military aspects of the 
 game.
  
  The only negative comment I can give to the game is that no mather how you try to win the game, 
 the Conquest and Domination victories are still the ones which gives the more points. Consequently, 
 I feel no motivation to try to win the game with another victory condition. 
  
  Still... 5 stars to this latest release of Civ4.
  
  ThieveryCo 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tOrchie
Rating: 9.3
Date: Feb 20, 2006 8:59 am PT
Review:  Ah, finally, Civilization 4 has arrived to turn us all into the walking dead. Seriously, I have 
 been having real trouble fitting sleep into my schedule anymore. This game is that good.
  
  I've been playing Civilization ever since the first one came out all those years ago, and I've 
 enjoyed each one in turn. I must say, however, that Civ 3 was something of a disappointment to 
 me. Yes, it added some great concepts like culture, but the massively truncated tech tree, and 
 the obnoxious expansion of competing civilizations, among other things (anyone else get tired of 
 looking at Sid Meier's face?) ultimately made it a lot less fun then it could've been. I found 
 myself going back to Civ 2 and playing it, enjoying it more despite its age, and longing for more, 
 almost pining. Well, there's no more doubt about which one to play. Civ 4 has come to save the 
 day.
  
  All of the neat innovations from Civ 3 are still here, such as culture, but a lot of annoying issues 
 that lingered through the first three games are gone. No longer will you be scurrying from city 
 to city, putting down bouts of anarchy. Instead, angry population just doesn't work, but allows 
 the rest of the city to function normally. Caps on population in cities has been changed, so you 
 don't HAVE to build that aqueduct, but it makes things alot easier. It's small changes like that 
 which add immense pleasure to an already amazing game. The annoying micromanagement has also been 
 minimized quite a bit, although you'll still be bouncing all over the map as cities complete projects.
 
  
  Wonders have been beefed up significantly, with a slew of new ones that may be produced by all 
 civilizations. These National Wonders, while neat, are nowhere near as powerful as the World Wonders. 
 Still, they add a little more flavor and depth to the game, and make sure you have more build options 
 throughout the ages.
  
  The combat system is much nicer, with a single number rating both offensive and defensive strength 
 keeping things neat and tidy. This single number can be heavily modified by terrain, fortifications, 
 and combat experience, but overall things run smoothly, and combat is a lot more fun t handle.
 
  
  One other major addition is religion, which can heavily influence your relationships with other 
 civilizations. You'll find it much easier to ally yourself with civs that have the same state religion, 
 as other civs will constantly be annoying by your unwillingness to convert. This can make for some 
 fun conflicts, and sending waves of missionaries to influence other cultures can be entertaining. 
 Luckily, you can also eliminate state religion late in the game to get rid of those troublesome 
 religious arguments with other heads of states.
  
  Everything that was great about the older games is still great in this version. The addictive "one 
 more turn" aspect is still there, as is all the classic fun of watching your tiny town blossom 
 into a continent spanning empire.
  
  The graphics are really quite phenomenal, with exceeding intricate details of each town on display 
 in the world map. Yes, it's no Doom 3, but for Civ fans, it will be quite a treat to see tiny little 
 aqueducts running out of towns towards water supplies. The battle animations are fun to watch as 
 well.
  
  Things sound great, which lots of great chimes and such for tech advancements and the like, and 
 fun combat effects, and even though the music isn't always perfect or totally compelling, it's 
 never too intrusive either. It's mostly forgettable stuff, although the intro song and the main 
 menu tune are both fantastic.
  
  Civilization is already almost infinitely replayable, considering how many different leaders you 
 can choose, with different specialities and bonuses, and the amazing variety of map styles and 
 sizes you can pick, but now, with the ability to create mods and true online play included, the 
 possibilities are almost literally endless. You could easily be playing this game in 2010.
  
  Civilization holds a special place in my heart. Few other games have kept me up so many late 
 nights. The concept itself is so brilliant, and the execution is masterful, with Civ 3 being the 
 only hiccup in the series. All of the issues in previous games have been addressed, and Civ 4 really 
 is the best one yet. It's complete and total gaming satisfaction, and I can't think of any reason 
 not to recommend this game to everyone 
::::::

::::::
UserName: faisal_aziz123
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 19, 2006 10:23 pm PT
Review:  civilization 4 is the best in the series no doubt about that but the special features are that 
 this game give a large choise of what to do like conquer an enemy from a rain of arrows to zapping 
 them with lazers and all that **** 3d engine which is suprisingly powerful makes this game look 
 distinctive and detailed. but the new refined and addictive gameplay makes this game a must buy. theres 
 nothing wrong in this game so why did they rate it 9.4 tha tis a question that only god can answer??? but 
 for all pc gamers this is a must-buy game at all costs because this is one of the greatest game 
 ever 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Colt13
Rating: 9.6
Date: Feb 19, 2006 7:20 pm PT
Review:  Alright, for any that have played the previous civilization games, youll notice that this one just 
 takes all the great things from all the previous games and very little of the annoying parts. i 
 love the combat system too, no longer can a pikeman destroy my tank! its great, just go out and 
 buy it, trust me. the AI is much improved as well, although sometimes my allies are jerks. I dont 
 know about the graphics... sometimes they get kind of laggy and buggy. they could have done more 
 with that, but overall its an epic game that i will play for many a year to come. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thepiledriver
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 17, 2006 12:15 pm PT
Review:  The new Civ is a graphical masterpiece. The 3D graphics and animation are best to date. If you 
 are a Civ fan and have played the previous installments you should be able to jump right in. You 
 will find many familiar aspects of the game and integrating the new features should be a breeze. 
 
  
  The ease of transition from 3 to 4 is a little bit deceptive though. While the outward appearances 
 of wonders, world leaders, and units seems to be the same many now have different functions that 
 will lead you to a result you might not have been expecting. You will really need to read into 
 these changes once you try your hand at higher levels of play. Its not a matter anymore of what 
 you have built up, but the balance you create in your civilization. If you are too industrious 
 then your neighbor will just come over and kill you immediately. The reverse is the same as well, 
 if you focus too much on military you will fall behind in technology and your destruction will 
 just be realized at a later date.
  
  There are alot of revisions in this game as compared to civ 3. The first you will notice the first 
 time you try too stack your units and attack a city. There is now collateral damage, and it can 
 turn your well armed division of troops into the first move of your quick defeat. Really pay attention 
 to the units and what they do. The addition of religion is an interesting feature, however, other 
 than looking at the percentage there nothing more than a few minor features. I wish they would 
 have expanded on this aspect of the game. One of the annoying aspects of the game is dealing with 
 world leaders. You basically can't deal with them. There seems to be no rhyme or reason to what 
 they want from you, and they rarely give you anything. There is also no negotiations, if what you 
 want is in red you might as well close the screen. The NPC have no problem sharing between themselves 
 just not with you. This will become apparent went you make your first rifleman and an enemy Mech 
 Infantry rolls into your city with frickin' "lasers."
  
  Most of what has been taken away only hurts you, the NPC leaders manage on there own. I'm not really 
 sure what to do half of the time. I like a challenge, but this deck is total stacked against you. 
 I would say that this game is definitely a buy and worth playing, but I don't see it stacking up 
 with civ 3 in the fun department. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ilchophe
Rating: 9.4
Date: Feb 17, 2006 5:28 am PT
Review:  From the very first civilization game the core game-play of Civ has been pretty much unchanged. 
 Leaving the bits of the game that makes it so addictive has kept this game a classic and all time 
 great.
  
  Unfortunately this has meant that whatever changes in the game-play are made will never be significant 
 enough. Don't fix it if it's not broken.
  A fancy new interface and pretty new graphics but its still Civ underneath it all.
  Still highly 
 addictive and at times complex.
  It would seem that an effort has been made to dumb things down a bit to accommodate for new players, 
 but Civ 4 is still pretty much an intimidating animal that will keep old Civ players very much 
 hooked to Civ 4.
  
  The rest ? The new players? Well . . . all that turn-based stuff is boring . . will be the standard 
 response cause lets face it if its not your cup of tea then what aspect of the overall game will 
 make you think otherwise? 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: SomecallmeSpock
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 16, 2006 5:34 pm PT
Review:  This game is quite simply one of the greatest strategy games ever made.
  
  I'm a major fan of the Civilization series, from playing the original Civ on school computers, 
 to conquering the world time and again in Civ II, to resisting the urge to throw my moniter through 
 a wall while playing Civ III. And to make it all better, to show that Sid still loves us and cares 
 for us, here arrives Civ IV.
  
  The game is a delight to play for any fan of Turn-based strategy, and even RTS fans will enjoy 
 the changes made. Changes have been made in the interface to make gameplay more streamlined, less 
 full of menus and more clicking buttons to get things done. Another great addition was the concept 
 of religion, choosing what religion to make your civ's official religion, and even creating religions. 
 I still get a kick from playing as the Japanese and inventing Judaism, or playing as the Americans 
 and inventing Hinduism.
  
  The graphics of this game are beautiful, plain and simple. The game allows you to zoom all the 
 way out, and to see the world in all of its rounded glory, or to zoom right up to your city and 
 observe all of the buildings you've built. 
  
  By far, One of Sid Meier's best. Keep 'em coming, Sid! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rokkuman09
Rating: 9.4
Date: Feb 16, 2006 12:55 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay:
  The gameplay in Civilization IV is much like previous titles in the series. But it has some new 
 features such as religon and air units. Even if you have played all the Civilization games before 
 this one you still need to play this (but make sure your computer can run it, it has much higher 
 system requirments than previous games in the series) . I warn you though if you play this game 
 theres about a 99% chance it will be hard to stop playing!
  
  Graphics:
  I like the graphics in Civilization IV for a few reasons. First of all they are very detailed. 
 Second of all there much, much, much better than Civilizations III's graphics and third there funny 
 looking!
  
  Sound:
  The sound in Civilzation IV is decent but its nothing amazing. Although the music can sometimes 
 be kinda catchy.
  
  Value:
  one of the best things about the game is its value. This game just doesnt get boring! It will definetly 
 last you until Civilzation V
  
  And the Overall Score is....9.4 Superb!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: badboyz89
Rating: 3.9
Date: Feb 15, 2006 4:56 pm PT
Review:  IF IT HAD THE FIGHTING STYLE AS AGE OF EMPIRE THIS WOULD BE A BAD AZZZZZ GAME. THE TURN TO TURN 
 BASIC IS TERRIBLE. NO ONE SHOULD HAVE THAT MUCH TIME TO SIT AROUND TAKING TURN IN FIGHTING OR ORGANZING. 
 ITS GREAT THAT THE GAME CAN BE PLAYED FOR EVER SINCE YOU GETTING YOUR MONEY WORTH BUT THAT ONLY 
 IF YOU IS A LOSER OR A FREE LOADER THAT DON'T HAVE A JOB OR A LIFE. I KNOW SOME OF YALL THINK MY 
 OPINION SUCKS BUT I KNOW THERES LOTS OF PEOPLE WHO SHARE THE SAME OPINION. THE IDEA OF TURN TO 
 TURN REALLY SUCKS IF YOU HAVE A LIFE TO LIVE. BUT ONE GOOD THING ABOUT THIS GAME IS THE GRAPHIC. 
 IF AGE OF EMPIRE HAD THIS KIND OF GRAPHIC IT WOULD BE THE BEST GAME EVER. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Phantomstrider
Rating: 6.2
Date: Feb 13, 2006 10:05 pm PT
Review:  Civilization IV had me excited when I started playing it, however my excitement slowly deflated 
 as I began the game. If you have not played Civilization 3 before this then you will probably find 
 this game to be incredible, however if you are a die-hard Sid Meier fan then you'll probably find 
 yourself somewhat dissapointed from what seems to be only a small bit of tweaking from Civilization 
 3.
  
  The first thing you'll notice is the new graphics engine they're using that differs very much from 
 number 3. There is also far more detail in fights, however you will still find that 3 tanks and 
 copters may be easily beaten by one enemy axeman.
  
  Aside from the better graphics, there are communication features both taken and removed from it 
 when talking to other Civilizations. Some of these are good but nifty features such as re-discussing 
 peace have been made more clumsy and complicated.
  
  There are lots of interesting new little details to Civilization 4 that weren't in 3. Such as the 
 either revolutionary or stupifying quote from the research founder or other important helpers whenever 
 you discover something in research.
  
  Another very noticable difference is that games will not seemingly hike on for days and days and 
 days like in number 3. A good 6 Civilization game will now probably take you up to 3-4 hours tops. 
 This is both good and bad for replay value but it takes away alot of the value from games. It seems 
 to move through far too fast.
  
  As mentioned above though, the most annoying feature that Sid Meier decides to implement in his 
 games is the battle system. The battle system is based on chance, which can be both good and bad 
 for you though mostly bad since the game seems to favour the computer for luck. In an example, 
 you may find that you take on an enemy castle with a chopper and have all 3 chopper's struck down 
 by an enemy clubman without a scratch. This frusterating battle system of chance will either drive 
 you insane, make you cynical about your luck or make you laugh.
  
  Overall, if you haven't played the Civilization series before then you're in for a nice, fun surprise 
 with a few features you wouldn't have found in any other Sid Meier productions, however if you're 
 a Sid Meier fanatic then you're probably looking at a dissapointing repeat. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lord_Nelson
Rating: 9.3
Date: Feb 13, 2006 4:02 pm PT
Review:  This game is really addictive. You will spend hours trying to beat it. If you really have no life, 
 take on the terra map on huge at an epic pace (takes a couple days) . My computer has crashed a 
 couple times playing it, so be warned. The learning curve is really steep, if you've never played 
 any civ games before, I recomend taking the tutorial at the begining of the game (voiced by the 
 creator himself) .
  
  Pros:
  religion is fun to tool around with
  many technologies
  a great range of difficulties
  
  cons:
  i wish there had been a larger concentration on seapower
 
  not too many modes
  pretty steep learning curve (especially if you're new to the game) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: heartlessknight
Rating: 9.3
Date: Feb 13, 2006 3:30 pm PT
Review:  Its always been - to use that most devalued of gaming terms - addictive. Addictive. Its something 
 games reviewers throw around without really thinking about, with colourful metaphors describing 
 it in terms of something you could base "Requiem for a Dream II: This Time It's Got a Joypad" about. 
 Its mostly posture, and it takes something like Civilization to show how much thats true. Theyre 
 not addictive. Civilization is.
  
  But its good. Damn good. In fact, Ill certainly go as far as saying its the best pure strategy 
 game Ive played this year, and thats good enough for me.
  
  It is by Far the best Strategy game i have played yo date this game will be on my top in my start 
 menu for months! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chriseales
Rating: 1.3
Date: Feb 13, 2006 12:11 pm PT
Review:  I bought this game on the strength of its reviews on here, but sorry its awful, I play a lot of 
 strategy games like age of empires and total war series, civ4 is nothing like these at all, the 
 game is split into tiles and you can only build one building each, its fartoo easy there is no 
 major military strategy at all armies are represented by 3 men and the battles in volve these 3 
 men hitting another 3 men, its childish its slow its turn based its boring there is too much more 
 to say as to why the games is such pants, please try the demo before wasting your cash like I did, 
 I tried real hard to give the game a good go but im sorry I hated every second of playing it, total 
 rubbish 
::::::

::::::
UserName: demonoid42
Rating: 8.8
Date: Feb 13, 2006 4:38 am PT
Review:  Before I get started, allow me to preface this with the statement that I only take the time to 
 review something if I feel one way or the other that I have something to say that I don't feel 
 others have said... and that I usually write my reviews when I am insanely tired and bored out 
 of my skull, so forgive an typos. With that in mind,
  
  This is a great game that, as of 13 February 06, is still in progress.
  
  In ways, I will never 
 forgive 2k for pushing Firaxis to release this game long before it was ready. It wasn't until the 
 third patch that the game even reached a true beta state. When it went gold, it was what any other 
 development and publishing team would have considered an alpha. It had bugs. It had memory leaks. 
 It had terrible compression of textures which caused insane unplayability on many, many systems. 
 But, most of all, it left a bad taste in the mouths of numerous hardcore CIV fans. 
  However, now that we are to that third patch that seems to have gotten things playable for the 
 majority of the world, we can take a more objective, overall approach to the game.
  
  --Gameplay --
  
  While it is *ahem* just a turn-based strategy game, it does have numerous elements 
 that, in and of themselves, are quite timeless. I personally believe that a TBS requires more strategy 
 than an RTS because you do not have to play it at a hurried pace per se, and there is more emphasis 
 on strategy and how strategic the player is than on how good the actual playing ability of the 
 player is. You will never hear someone say, "Dammit, I lost that battle because of all this goddamn 
 lag," which is a bonus in my mind. The interface is quite well done, and most of the keyboard shortcuts 
 come in handy. Outside of some slight imbalances and oversights, the game is quite fun to play. 
 I wish they would do something about the +50% to wonders that industrious civs get, that is just 
 outright insane. You should never be able to build a world wonder in five turns just because you 
 are loaded on mines, have (stone/marble/copper) , and are an industrious civ. I agree with the mods 
 out there that treat the IND trait like the FIN trait and give you an extra production point per 
 tile with two production points. Although, I wouldn't mind seeing that changed to +2 with 2, since 
 it would make more of a useful effect of the trait.
  
  9/10
  
  --Graphics --
  
  Despite the score, this is still my big qualm with the game. I have an x800 pro at present and 
 have very few problems. I also have 1GB of system ram. The fact that I have any problems what so 
 ever with a game like CIV is outrageous. CIV is a borderline 2D game that only slightly utilizes 
 3D and basically lives and dies with late-90s effects and textures. This screams to me that they 
 still need to figure something out with this game. I can run Half-Life: Lost Coast with minimal 
 problems -- almost equal to that of this -- and that is supposed to represent a benchmark of sorts 
 to many in the gaming community. If ever Firaxis does something about the memory problems this 
 game has, I might be willing to bump that up to an 8 in graphics, making the overall 8.9.
  
  7/10
  
  --Sound --
  
  Is there a person out there who can truly say they enjoy the sound 
 in CIV? The same sound effects wear very old after a long time. Two or three games in and you will 
 dislike the sound effects, music, cut scenes, and have a little distain for Mr. Nemoy's voice. 
 I have hit the point where I queue up my custom folder and shut all other sounds off -- except when 
 I am playing online, where I have to hear that annoying-ass phone ring to let me know that someone 
 wants to try and rob me blind. Overall, the sound is pretty weak.
  
  5/10
  
  --Value & Tilt --
  
  There is not a game in existence with more replay value than CIV. Ever. 
 Every game you play is different. Every game you have a choice of what kind of style you will play 
 with. Some times you shoot for one style -- say, cultural victory is your goal -- only to find out 
 that your neighbors are Monte, Toku, Al, and Mr. Capac, which kinda leaves you with no choice but 
 to go for a military victory of some kind. With Direct IP Connection, you can always play with 
 your friends for far too many hours (longest game I've played with one person ran on for upwards 
 of 15 hours -- I had 46 cities and over half the world population, he wasn't enjoying being a very, 
 very distant second) and far too often at that. All told, one hell of a game, saved from a lack 
 of completion (thanks to 2k) by Sid's masterful framework that has always allowed for hours upon 
 hours of gameplay, followed by hours upon hours of "just... one... more... turn..."
  
  And then it's 4am and you have to be to work at 7. Thanks, CIV! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HamanZz
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 12, 2006 4:32 am PT
Review:  The game map also shows off a lot of information. Since there are many more types of terrain improvements 
 this time around, you'll be able to tell just by looking at the map whether a given tile is generating 
 food, commerce or production. There are options you can turn on to highlight certain resources. 
 This makes it much easier to pick out where the key deposits are. Similar options let you see military 
 units, resource yields, cultural ownership and other factors. Since there are many more terrain 
 improvements this time around (and since you'll need to build them before you can access strategic 
 resources or luxuries) , having this information handy makes strategic planning much more convenient 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: aubar
Rating: 8.8
Date: Feb 11, 2006 2:18 am PT
Review:  Maybe you, youngsters, don't remember when CIV I first appear. I had that old gray thing animated 
 by a faithfull 486DX and a VGA card, when suddenly a shooting star appear and answered to my wishes. 
 Sid Meier had listened to players prayers. And there came CIV 1. A really addictive game that became 
 a myth.
  Today we have the 4th opus. Let's make it clear : CIV 4 is a great game, ... for newbies. Still 
 addictive, it has inherited of the gameplay of its predecessors and the graphical capabilities 
 are, of course, in line with todays capabilities of the (best) graphic cards. But what else ? 
 
  Well, eh , well, nothing really new in fact. Same goals, same gameplay, only minor detail changes. 
 In fact, everything is still the same, even the feeling to be a godlike creature ruling a bunch 
 of people, and that is really worth the price, but yet, I am finally a bit disapointed in the lack 
 of imagination. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: babke
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 10, 2006 3:47 am PT
Review:  Civilization is THE game to kill all your free time and to take away even that which you need for 
 doing something else.
  
  Seriously now, Civilization is one of the games that has, through its 4 reincarnations, stayed 
 true to the concept that made it great from the very beginning. And that is IDEA. Sid Meier has 
 performed a wonderful job of incorporating all those good things about Civilization that were there 
 from the very beginning, with a few necessary tweaks, into a new, modern- and nice-looking package. 
 
  
  There is a two very distinct ways how this game should be described. The first one is for the people 
 who have never played the Civilization game. It takes some time to explain to people why a game 
 like this is really great fun. The second one is for the people who have played old Civilizations 
 and it is as short as it can be: THE NEW CIV IS OUT!
  
  The concept of the game is managing a civilization from the tribal days of human kind, to its full 
 technical development in modern ages. 
  
  The amount of things to manage is remarkable (armies, production, religion, expansion, relations 
 with other civilizations ...) and on the other side in the realm of management. Weve played games 
 where the management of 1000s of aspects soon draws you away from what should be an enjoyable time 
 playing the game. This is not the case here. Everything is perfectly balanced and you will find 
 yourself really immersed in all of the games aspects.
  
  For people who might think this is complex (I have met a few people who couldnt find a quick grasp 
 on the concept in Civilization III and have therefore abandoned the game altogether) , there is 
 a very comprehensive, and nicely shaped Tutorial with vocal guidance of none other than Sid Meyer.
 
  
  For all of you who have played the game before (any of the games in the series) you will find the 
 grip very quickly and in no time you will be playing this as you did the old ones... Not much has 
 changed (although there are some slight but significant changes) in gameplay so youll be up and 
 running in no time...
  
  The graphics are state of the art, the sound also, technically I can find no flaw whatsoever. I 
 guess this is one of the reason why the game was voted Best Game of the Year on numerous places...
 
  
  If you didnt play it yet, dont wait, go, buy and have FUN!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Zim909
Rating: 9.9
Date: Feb 9, 2006 3:09 pm PT
Review:  my dad got this game, and I saw it was another strategy game, and I only thought, meh, another 
 strategy game, I thought at the time that Rise of Nations was the invincible power in terms of 
 strategy games, but now it looks like it has competition in Civilization 4.
  
  the game is somewhat similar to the older games, only there's a more intricate religion system 
 and there are many new technologies.
  
  The changed: The last civ game I played before this was the second one, so I'm gonna base the changes 
 offa that. There's no more space areas, and now it doesn't show the fights as they happen, but 
 rather it calculates the probability of winning as opposed to losing in each battle. also, there's 
 only one plane of battle, and that pretty much sums up all the planes, air, sea, and land, and 
 unfortunately, not space.
  
  The gameplay: You can't falter this gameplay, even if the game takes up a lotta memory on your 
 comp and has a huge running memory (last I checked it was 389,000k) , it runs surprisingly well 
 and it doesn't really crash. The game can calculate things pretty quickly and the battles run smoothly, 
 though the sounds can be a little behind.
  
  The graphics: holy crap 10.0, 'nuff said.
  
  All in all, the game is a little like chess, risk, and rise of nations fused nuclearly together, 
 therefore creating a turn-based chess game on a computer.
  
  I'd give this game a pretty high score, and anything good that the game gets, such as game of the 
 year or whatever, it deserves it.
  
  -Zim 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Griffer38
Rating: 8.6
Date: Apr 19, 2006 6:56 pm PT
Review:  The past Civilization games have been nothing short of fantastic. They have been addicting and 
 creative and could have people playing for hours at a time. The new Civ 4 is much better if that 
 can be believed.
  
  The gameplay is pretty much the same as past Civ games. You build a city with a settler, you try 
 to get production, food and gold points so your cities grow faster, and you can still make huge 
 armies to attack the opponents around the world. If you eventually got tired of the old Civ gameplay, 
 you might find this a lot of the same thing. However, if you've never played any games in this 
 series, this will provide very good gameplay. The new stuff in this game includes that they've 
 gotten rid of specific governments. Instead you have I think six different categories of civics. 
 So you can support Slavery and Environmentalism at the same time if you want to. These civics are 
 just different branches of government that you can change to benefit your civilization. Something 
 else that will be new to Civ veterans is the addition of culture. This is your border. The more 
 culture you have, the farther out your borders will expand. That means that if you have more culture 
 than the French next to you, your culture could surround their city and maybe eventually cause 
 an uprising that could turn that city of to you. There are also several new ways to win. There 
 is a culture, diplomatic, space race, point, world domination, and global victory. This expands 
 the fun so there is more reason to go back to try to win a different way. However by the end of 
 any games, it'll start to get repetitive and you'll get tired and either quit or start a new game. 
 This game offers many different difficulty settings and some of these are quite hard.
  
  The one thing that will immediately grab long time Civ fan's attention is the new 3D graphics. 
 These look much better than the classic 2D. This game is also much more detailed than any of the 
 other games in the series. Whatever a city builds, you will see in that city. You will see an aqueduct 
 leading out of the city when you make one. You will see Stonehenge right outside the city if you 
 build it. And now, you can watch combat which can be pretty exciting. You can actually see the 
 soldiers now. For instance you can watch a warrior swinging his club at another warrior. Or you 
 can watch a rifleman fire the gun. This isn't a big deal but it's the little things that matter 
 to me
  
  The sound is better than the past games because the past games just had a soundtrack that played 
 over and over again. This sound's better because the music changes as time changes. In the beginning 
 of the game you won't hear much of anything. As you move on, you'll move through different era's 
 of music like classical piano or vocalizing. The music is just something that gets lost in the 
 background and ultimately will be forgotten
  
  You'll be playing this game for a while. The single player will have you addicted and stuck to 
 your chair for a while. When you get tired of that, you can try the online multiplayer. Somehow 
 it can be more satisfying to go up against people rather than a computer.
  
  Overall: This game is a great addition to the series. However the gameplay can get slightly repetitive 
 and the shock from the new graphics won't last long. But that still doesn't outweigh the good of 
 this game.
  This game is a buy 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fonnfaex13
Rating: 7
Date: Feb 8, 2006 9:44 pm PT
Review:  Intense I wanna play! in the way as fonnfaex13 usually does in his game. But many teels that fonnfaex13 
 is a worthless man but they do not know that fonnfaex13 marks up the whole world because he is 
 a legend, thats why he also known as ManOf13thDay. So you must not be thinking that fonnfaex13 
 is like an ordinary person that you know. think of that fellow or I mean sucker.
  
  intense i wanna play! have you ever heard a remix like this in your whole life?
  if not come 
 and join me in! 
  
  romance for lovers only ........... joke !
  
  but remember that I am not the type of man that you commonly seen on the road as well as my buddy! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Conan223
Rating: 9.6
Date: Feb 8, 2006 2:54 pm PT
Review:  Civilization is a game that attracts a variety of players. It's a turn based RTS that's actually 
 a lot of fun to play. Many other turn based RTS' have failed to deliver, Civilization isn't one 
 of these. In Civilization you're given the task to create a Civilization that stands the test of 
 time. There are several methods to winning such as through science and conquest. 
  
  This game is very addicting. You'll probably spend a large amount of time playing once you start. 
 It's a game that's very difficult to put down. I used to play this when I got home from work until 
 about an hour before I had to go to class the next day. It was difficult for me to get sleep. It's 
 just that damn good. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bittersunrise
Rating: 7.9
Date: Feb 7, 2006 6:56 pm PT
Review:  I haven't been able to play it much, but I'm very impressed with almost every aspect of the game.
 
  
  It's fun to make everyone convert to whatever religion you choose, hehe. Since I'm a Christian 
 though I always feel guilty when the main religion isn't Christianity. Strange. Anyway...
  
  The music in this game is absolutely gorgeous. I could listen to it all day. When I first started 
 playing, in fact, I turned the music up full blast and just sat there listening to it for a couple 
 of hours before I even started playing. I've never been so impressed with a game's soundtrack.
 
  
  I love the many choices you have in which empire you control. I pick someone different every time 
 I play, and it's always fun to see the differences.
  
  It's just really nice, and addictive. I have no other words, really. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: regulesblade
Rating: 8.9
Date: Feb 7, 2006 6:42 pm PT
Review:  Civilization 4 is a must get for any gamesr who have played through any of the previous games. 
 It is just splendid and amazing. Just like in its predecessor games the graphics are just a must 
 improve in every single game as we are once again treated to another good set of eye candy. Of 
 course the game itself still plays out in a similar fashion where your main goal is to expand from 
 a small stone aged civilization to a highly dominant futuristic society. This time Civilizations 
 brings in even more diversity to each of its sides in giving them more of a defining charateristic 
 than in its previous games. Many factors from the previous games have been reworked such as diplomacy 
 and the general skirmish or battles feel a bit shorter. Overall I would have to say that the game 
 is very indepth, and it takes quite a long time to actually go into the game and learn each of 
 its different capabilities that the game offers to its users. When playing by yourself turns into 
 a very boring game there isi still an online play that allows players to go out and pit their skills 
 against all the other highly skilled individuals around the world. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: April_Goh
Rating: 1
Date: Feb 7, 2006 8:23 am PT
Review:  Workers have 2 movement, thats a plus. No more loss of production from waste.... Civics are nice... 
 Uhh... what else... Corruption was recalculated... but in a user-unfriendly way... and uhhh religions... 
 No wait religion adds an extremely annoying and time consuming bore to the game... Well, you get 
 the idea. The game is less user friendly than the previous ones when it comes to finding information 
 from the get-go and starting your game. It takes much longer than it should to get into the game. 
 The maps are tiny and are completely undersized for the amount of players on it. In most of my 
 games it was a struggle just to get up to 10 cities without cultural conversions (Some of them 
 I couldn't) . Managing cities has its higher and lower points. Specialists can do a lot more now, 
 but for some reason the game will occasionally turn a spot on a large city into a specialist randomly, 
 which can end up totally screwing the city. Industrious doesn't have the same bonuses as in Civ 
 3 but it is still ridiculously overpowered for single human games. Industrious Nations with resources 
 and Forges are wonder rushing monsters. War is weak to the point where practically all HITS LANDED 
 IN A BATTLE are predetermined. If your 5 power unit bounces off a 10 power unit without landing 
 a hit (Takes 5 hits in a row and dies) , chances are your 15 power unit will be hit 5 times in a 
 row and nearly die instantly. War weariness is better in this game and your people don't go nuts 
 in 3 turns like they did with Civ 3's Democracy. Overall, war is horrible, incredibly time consuming, 
 and nearly useless. Religion is the most G-ddamn annoying thing I have ever seen in a Civ game 
 hands down. The stupid Missionaries can fail and completely waste your time and production. (Especially 
 later in the game) , and getting every religion to every city is nothing but an extremely boring 
 and agonizing chore, especially if some backwater town in the middle of nowhere founds a religion, 
 or you lose one to an enemy. (There is practically no way for one Civ to found both Hinduism and 
 Buddhism, so you're not getting them all) . Missionaries DO affect coding CAN screw with battle 
 results in wars, and thats one of only two things that ever made me respect Religion's influence 
 in the game. For making War so pathetic and incredibly boring. -1 For adding those G-d awful religions 
 (I do believe in G-d, but the pun is too nice to avoid) . -1 because the game got boring way too 
 quickly both times I played it.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: zezerd1
Rating: 9.8
Date: Feb 5, 2006 8:17 am PT
Review:  Civilization 4 is an extremely good game. Probably the best turn-based game I've ever played. Great 
 graphics, easy to learn game play, A+ music and sound. This game rocks! Unlike some games I've 
 played, the learning curve isn't even an hour long! Install it, look at the tutorial, and play! 
 The best yet in the civilization series. And, they update about every 2-4 weeks, which is pretty 
 good compared to other games that get a update every 2-4 months. Easy to manage cities, units and 
 economy. If you don't have it yet, download the demo! You'll enjoy it. Also, Firaxis Games made 
 it, and they make a lot of good games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mg412
Rating: 9.3
Date: Feb 4, 2006 2:02 pm PT
Review:  i think this game is amazing ! i am a beginner to the civ seires although I have played civ 3 i 
 was never rele a big fan. BUt after playing this game I AM ADDICTED! The manage tool 4 the workers 
 is wonderful because i dont have to worry about that and can focus on my gov or winning in general! 
 Trust me with this game u wont go wrong. I will admit this game takes a few rounds to get use 2 
 and it is overwhelming at first with all the info but after a few games u will be addicted. Hopefully 
 this review has helped u so Noob or not get THIS GAME!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: darthisaki
Rating: 9.3
Date: Feb 4, 2006 4:19 am PT
Review:  Civ 4 is what what you would expect if your a civ 4 fan, But wait theres more it is a deeper game, 
 there is much more to be said about the graphics and its much better gameplay the units and so 
 much more.
  
  The contrlos that the creators of civ 4 have implicated is similar to civ3 theres the movement 
 aspects of the gameplay, you the player has the option of moving there units in either a stack 
 formation a single formation a same unit stack formation and the formation of all units on the 
 selected square formation. When performing tasks with you military units or either your workers 
 or just building a unit or building, The game uses the same in game interface to civ 3 so if a 
 civ fan youll find it easy to navigate th game.
  
  When it come to controlling a worker you have a much wider variety of options one such option is 
 when you can choose to automate the worker but you also have a sub option of city improvements, 
 build trade network, connect cities and more.
  
  with the military units i found it dissapointing further on in the game when you couldnt use icbms 
 anymore, you can stil use them but you actually damage a citie, the is due to the research of satellites 
 wich act as defence and always shoot down you icbm before contact.
  
  the civ4 interface is easy to navigate through you can find the custom game, scenario game and 
 options screens very easy, if you want a to add play a mod you ahve access to you simply go to 
 advanced then select mod then select the mod you wish to use. 
  
  If youve played civ 3 you would of been pretty dissapointed with the graphics, but not with civ 
 4 the colourful and well rendered surroundings and units give a good feel to the game. a simple 
 improvement such as this give a better look toa agme which will help it appeal to gamers. The only 
 dissapointment i found with the graphics was the framerate and the badlag you will get if the game 
 has too much going on, but this will probably not affect the newer systems but will affect the 
 older. 
  
  overall civ 4 is a game that i would suggest you buy or at least test out. it will help ypu enjoy 
 the genre that is turn based strategy gaming.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: X_Diverse_X
Rating: 9.4
Date: Feb 2, 2006 6:47 pm PT
Review:  Title: Civilization IV
  Publisher: 2K Games
  Developer: Firaxis Game
  Rating: E10+
  
  Gameplay - Perfect balance. Right clicking to choose what to do, and left click to move to different 
 parts of the world. Also, you can custimize it for your own needs.
  
  Graphics - Solid graphics. If you zoom in you can see the detail of the cities, the troops and 
 farms. The World Wonders also look nice.
  
  Sound - Superb sound. I loved the sound in this game, it gets you into the game, really well-done.
 
  
  Value - You can play this game forever, literally. The game stops at 2050 AD, but you can play 
 more after. Also there is 12 player online, which will hook you on this game.
  
  Tilt - Very fun, one of the best turn based strategy game ever made. Awesome fun that gets you 
 hooked.
  
  Civ IV is a awesome game and anyone, even if you don't really like TBS's, you should check this 
 out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gogoplexiorayo
Rating: 9.2
Date: Feb 2, 2006 6:54 am PT
Review:  In Civ 4 you can pick many factions too play some of them are the chinese, incan, spanish, greek, 
 roman and many others. There are also many things for you too pick like how large the world is 
 gonna be, how cold or warm or tropical its gonna be, you can pick out continents. And more. And 
 some of the people has different personalitys.
  
  In the beginning you will just begin with a settler and a couple of other things. Building a city 
 is very easy. and you can even make your own name for the city. And then you need too choose wisely 
 between the stuff you want . There are also tecnolegy in this game. Some of them are good if you 
 want a military and want too go too war, some of them are important if you want a growing civilzation. 
 And some are important too modernise you Civilization. There are also wonders you can build and 
 when your done with the wonder. a movie is showed and that is really cool. There are also a movie 
 that comes if you discover a new religion. 
  
  The wars in Civ 4 are very unbalanced and bad. I had SAM infantry and i got killed by spearmen 
 and thats just plain stupid too look at. And theres only three and three fighting. And sometimes 
 if you have a archer you cant even see that he shoots. And the enemy seems too always have better 
 military then you. And its too easy for the enemy too take your city and too hard for you too take 
 theirs. These problems makes it for a much much more frustrating game. But it does not at all! 
 Destroy the game.
  
  If you just want a quick match you can always just set it too quick if you want a long match you 
 can pick epic. If you dont have much time its best too pick easy. But if you are a gaming nerd 
 that just likes too play all day Epic is the right choise. But its too bad even on Epic the game 
 can be completed in a little over 2 hours. They should have added a match that was long a 14 hour 
 match or something but thats too bad. The continents all look great also it has great great varety 
 and thats a good thing. The mods that you can play is great and fun and its good with a bit change 
 sometimes. And if you are a newbie well the tutorial is welcomed too help you. 
  
  The multiplayer features in Civ 4 is great. If you want too play on Hot seat you and your friends 
 can hook it up on just one computer. Or maybe you just want too play with yourself. This new feature 
 is the one i had most fun with. The internet games are very good. Its just fun too feel proud over 
 beating somebody or cry over losing. it could get a bit laggy.
  
  The graphics in Civ 4 looks amazing the water. The beatiful atmosphere. The cool warriors, or the 
 trees. It all just looks amazing. The mountains looks good. the characther animations is great 
 though it can get a bit too shiny. Theres almost not a single bad aspect about the graphics. 
 
  
  The sound in Civ 4 is Superb the music that plays in the game rocks. And they all fit for the age 
 your in. The sound of desert critters or wind swaying through the tropical threes. The sound of 
 cold and darkness in north. The tropical sound and the birds and frogs singing. Its all great. 
 There was only one problem and that was that the sound didnt play sometimes. Otherwise simply amazing. 
 
  
  The value in Civ 4 is also perfect. Its just so much too check out that you will have your hands 
 full for atleast a month before your done checking it all out. All the continents you can check 
 out all Civs you must try. all the multiplayer features, all the mods. Theres just so much in Civ 
 4. More games should have all the value Civ 4 has. 
  
  In the end Civ 4 is recomended lt too almost everybody. The game is a bit dead so i dont recommend 
 it. for FPS fans who wants action all the time because there no real pure action too be found in 
 Civ 4. But for the rest of us Civ 4 is a must check out. The battles yes should be fixed because 
 its almost broken battles. But luckilly its not about battles its about building Civilzation. In 
 the end Civ 4 is a game that you will play over and over and just never grow tired. 
  
  Expect too be addicted for the rest of your life baby!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: speed_devil
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 1, 2006 12:58 pm PT
Review:  The game is so exciting and strategic that you'll love it! It's a masterpiece! Give a big thanks 
 to the producers! They did an amazing job!
  But let's move on to describe the game. First you choose a civilization and then you begin your 
 journey through history, from the 4000bc up to 2050ad!
  There are a hundrends of tecnologies to research and world wonders to build, that every minute 
 that past playing the game would be more and more exciting!!
  The gameplay is turn-based so you plan your next move with no hurry and then move on to the next 
 turn! It's very easy to control and you don't even have to use the keyboard! Only for shortcuts!
 
  The sound is amazing! When you enter the main menu you'll discover that the songs makes you feel 
 that the earth is the center of the universe and that you're unique!
  To sum up i think that every pc gamer must have this game in his collection! If someone miss this 
 game i think is blasphemy!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gamer_Dude
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 30, 2006 8:43 pm PT
Review:  I kept seeing the positive reviews on this site as well as others about how good this game really 
 was. I even picked up the box at the store on several visits and put it back, thinking it was not 
 the right type of game for me. I'm a FPS fan but have some RTS favorites. I received an Xbox game 
 for Christmas that I decided to return and got this CIV IV game instead. Man am I glad I got it. 
 Its everything the reviews say it was, especially addictive. I love this game. The graphics are 
 awesome, the game play is interesting and of course completely addictive. Man was I wrong when 
 I put that game back on the shelves several times. This game is for everyone, older and younger, 
 and fans of other genres will appreciate this game. Its relaxing and yet competitive at the same 
 time. Get it as soon as you can. You won't regret it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BlackOpsAce
Rating: 4.9
Date: Jan 30, 2006 4:31 pm PT
Review:  ok i am a fan of firaxis games and i have alpha centari and other but this is rediculious.
  
  The game takes forever to build up your thing every time and you can ONLY have 1 unit at tack 
 at once (they cant attack at the same time) meaning larger numbers doesnt work often and you have 
 to use a certain type of unit against another or else you will get owned.
  
  The grapics werent anything special and i think it was a waste of money on my part.
  
  This 
 is my OWN opinion of the game just to protect you people looking for a action game, many of you 
 (as is shown) love the game but i dont. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: amansandhu
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jan 30, 2006 12:28 pm PT
Review:  After reading superb reviews for Civ4 I was curious about how good the game really was so I downloaded 
 the demo & was waiting to be surprised. As soon as I saw the gameplay screen I said to my self 
 how can people actually be so crazy about this game, it has no huge battles like rome total war, 
 it had just the map world which was 3D with huge men running around which was really not my type 
 & I never ever played any of the previous Civ games so I had no idea what to expect. Anyways I 
 started playing the tutorial & after a few mins I realized the type of gameplay that Civ4 offers. 
 When I finished the tutorial & started playing the game I was just sucked into this amazing game 
 which was a total surprise for me cause I really didn't like it at first but after I spent more 
 time with it I realized that this is a fantastic game. All I can say is that first of all GET THIS 
 GAME!!! You won't regret it but please don't make your judgement by just playing the first few 
 mins give this game time & be patient & I promise from a guy who never played Civ games before 
 & who's a huge fan of Rome total war like strategy games, THIS GAME WILL MAKE YOU LIKE IT!!!! Anyway 
 I won't go into detail about gameplay n stuff cause seriously you can read that in the gamespot 
 review & others. I just want to tell you that this game really ROCKS!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bifam
Rating: 5.5
Date: Jan 30, 2006 7:48 am PT
Review:  I played this game for about 4-5 hours and i think the graphic is to god damn bad you know?. But 
 maybe gamespot just gave it so much because of civilization III had a even worse graphic. But some 
 nice videos in the game when you build a wonder. Na Na Na Na Na Na Na Na Na Na Na Na Na Na Na Na 
 Na Na Na Na Na Na Na Na Na Na Na Na Na Na Na Na Na Na Na Na Na Na Na Na Na Na Na Na Na Na Na Na 
 Na Na Na Na Na Na Na Na Na Na Na Na Na Na Na Na Na Na Na Na Na Na Na Na Na Na Na Na Na Na Na Na 
 Na Na Na Na Na Na Na Na Na Na Na Na Na Na Na Na 
::::::

::::::
UserName: en-z-io
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jan 29, 2006 8:35 pm PT
Review:  As soon as I started to play the game, I realized how good it was. With an incredible number of 
 different classes, civilizations, upgrades, etc., you are immediately taken into an immersive world 
 of wonder. Just in my roughly five hour playing time, I've already been extremely impressed; I 
 could go on, and on about all the wonderful aspects of the game. The closest I came to playing 
 a Civilization game was that of Alpha Centauri (another excellent game by the way) . They are fairly 
 similair, but Civilization IV is, I feel, even better than AC. I can't wait to get better, and 
 learn more about the game, then I can move onto the multiplayer aspect of the game, and also do 
 more in the singleplayer aspect of the game. In conclusion, I highly recommend this magnificent 
 game, this blows all other strategy games I have played out of the water. Do yourself a favor and 
 pick this one up right now. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Scrwed
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jan 29, 2006 4:09 pm PT
Review:  I was completely unhappy with this game when I first bought it in November. Had to buy a new graphics 
 card, and even after that, it still did not run real well. However, now that they have patched 
 the game, it is beyond my expectations from good ole Sid:) Sure, it takes getting used to a 3d 
 civ game, but once the shock of actually seeing graphics is over... well, perfect! Leonard Nimoy's 
 voice gets on my nerves occasionally, but it's always a good thing to hear from him (means a new 
 tech) . 
  
  Great gameplay, great graphics, this is an absolute must for all civ fans (just make sure you have 
 a decent graphics card) . 2 or 3 years of gameplay at least outta this game!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Iknik
Rating: 7
Date: Jan 28, 2006 6:08 pm PT
Review:  Civilization 4 is pretty much a dumbed down version of its predecessor, Civ 3. Instead of creating 
 believable AI players (which would have been about time, as the AI of the computer opponents has 
 always been one of the few weak points of the Civ series) the game developers decided to make religion 
 more important in the game. Truth is, that doesnt really add any gameplay value. And compared 
 to its predecessor, Civ 4 lacks atmosphere.
  
  The gameplay of Civ 3 is so enthralling that you simply dont notice the fact that the music is 
 quite silly and the graphics arent exactly state of the art. Civ 4, being a stripped version of 
 Civ 3, is less epic and less addictive. And then, all of a sudden, you do hear the silly music 
 and you do notice the mediocre graphics.
  
  Yes, Civ 4 is a good game, and yes, the One More Turn Syndrome is still there. And if you have 
 Civ 1 to 3 and want a slight variation on the theme, you should buy this one. But if youre looking 
 for the ultimate Civilization-experience, play Civilization 3. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PFCGOMEZ
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 28, 2006 8:15 am PT
Review:  when i first saw the series ( my friend lent me part 3) , i didnt sleep for weeks at a time. now 
 that part 4 came out i havent slept in months...... this is the best game that has ever come out 
 for PC! anyone who would like a good game to play dont look at this one, because this is a PERFECT 
 game!! it is way better than any other game in its genre, or any game preceding it. i reccomend 
 any one who even took a brief look at this game to buy it , every one will love it ( im sure) ! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DARK_BISHOP
Rating: 3.4
Date: Jan 27, 2006 3:52 pm PT
Review:  the game starts in great but then gets boring b/c you get locked into your setup so if u set up 
 poorly in the beginning your done dont continue just start over cause u cant change much. music 
 was good i think u must be a fan of the series to like the game....... the game starts in great 
 but then gets boring b/c you get locked into your setup so if u set up poorly in the beginning 
 your done dont continue just start over cause u cant change much. music was good i think u must 
 be a fan of the series to like the gamethe game starts in great but then gets boring b/c you get 
 locked into your setup so if u set up poorly in the beginning your done dont continue just start 
 over cause u cant change much. music was good i think u must be a fan of the series to like the 
 game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sportsfreak13
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 27, 2006 7:35 pm PT
Review:  OMG IT ROX MY UNMATCHED SOX U MUST BUY IT LOL OMG IT ROX MY UNMATCHED SOX U MUST BUY IT LOLOMG 
 IT ROX MY UNMATCHED SOX U MUST BUY IT LOLOMG IT ROX MY UNMATCHED SOX U MUST BUY IT LOLOMG IT ROX 
 MY UNMATCHED SOX U MUST BUY IT LOLOMG IT ROX MY UNMATCHED SOX U MUST BUY IT LOLOMG IT ROX MY UNMATCHED 
 SOX U MUST BUY IT LOLOMG IT ROX MY UNMATCHED SOX U MUST BUY IT LOLOMG IT ROX MY UNMATCHED SOX U 
 MUST BUY IT LOLOMG IT ROX MY UNMATCHED SOX U MUST BUY IT LOLOMG IT ROX MY UNMATCHED SOX U MUST 
 BUY IT LOLOMG IT ROX MY UNMATCHED SOX U MUST BUY IT LOLOMG IT ROX MY UNMATCHED SOX U MUST BUY IT 
 LOLOMG IT ROX MY UNMATCHED SOX U MUST BUY IT LOLOMG IT ROX MY UNMATCHED SOX U MUST BUY IT LOLOMG 
 IT ROX MY UNMATCHED SOX U MUST BUY IT LOLOMG IT ROX MY UNMATCHED SOX U MUST BUY IT LOLOMG IT ROX 
 MY UNMATCHED SOX U MUST BUY IT LOLOMG IT ROX MY UNMATCHED SOX U MUST BUY IT LOLOMG IT ROX MY UNMATCHED 
 SOX U MUST BUY IT LOLOMG IT ROX MY UNMATCHED SOX U MUST BUY IT LOLOMG IT ROX MY UNMATCHED SOX U 
 MUST BUY IT LOLOMG IT ROX MY UNMATCHED SOX U MUST BUY IT LOLOMG IT ROX MY UNMATCHED SOX U MUST 
 BUY IT LOLOMG IT ROX MY UNMATCHED SOX U MUST BUY IT LOLOMG IT ROX MY UNMATCHED SOX U MUST BUY IT 
 LOLOMG IT ROX MY UNMATCHED SOX U MUST BUY IT LOLOMG IT ROX MY UNMATCHED SOX U MUST BUY IT LOLOMG 
 IT ROX MY UNMATCHED SOX U MUST BUY IT LOLOMG IT ROX MY UNMATCHED SOX U MUST BUY IT LOLOMG IT ROX 
 MY UNMATCHED SOX U MUST BUY IT LOLOMG IT ROX MY UNMATCHED SOX U MUST BUY IT LOLOMG IT ROX MY UNMATCHED 
 SOX U MUST BUY IT LOLOMG IT ROX MY UNMATCHED SOX U MUST BUY IT LOLOMG IT ROX MY UNMATCHED SOX U 
 MUST BUY IT LOLOMG IT ROX MY UNMATCHED SOX U MUST BUY IT LOLOMG IT ROX MY UNMATCHED SOX U MUST 
 BUY IT LOLOMG IT ROX MY UNMATCHED SOX U MUST BUY IT LOLOMG IT ROX MY UNMATCHED SOX U MUST BUY IT 
 LOLOMG IT ROX MY UNMATCHED SOX U MUST BUY IT LOLOMG IT ROX MY UNMATCHED SOX U MUST BUY IT LOLOMG 
 IT ROX MY UNMATCHED SOX U MUST BUY IT LOLOMG IT ROX MY UNMATCHED SOX U MUST BUY IT LOLOMG IT ROX 
 MY UNMATCHED SOX U MUST BUY IT LOLOMG IT ROX MY UNMATCHED SOX U MUST BUY IT LOLOMG IT ROX MY UNMATCHED 
 SOX U MUST BUY IT LOLOMG IT ROX MY UNMATCHED SOX U MUST BUY IT LOLOMG IT ROX MY UNMATCHED SOX U 
 MUST BUY IT LOLOMG IT ROX MY UNMATCHED SOX U MUST BUY IT LOLOMG IT ROX MY UNMATCHED SOX U MUST 
 BUY IT LOLOMG IT ROX MY UNMATCHED SOX U MUST BUY IT LOLOMG IT ROX MY UNMATCHED SOX U MUST BUY IT 
 LOLOMG IT ROX MY UNMATCHED SOX U MUST BUY IT LOLOMG IT ROX MY UNMATCHED SOX U MUST BUY IT LOLOMG 
 IT ROX MY UNMATCHED SOX U MUST BUY IT LOLOMG IT ROX MY UNMATCHED SOX U MUST BUY IT LOLOMG IT ROX 
 MY UNMATCHED SOX U MUST BUY IT LOLOMG IT ROX MY UNMATCHED SOX U MUST BUY IT LOLOMG IT ROX MY UNMATCHED 
 SOX U MUST BUY IT LOLOMG IT ROX MY UNMATCHED SOX U MUST BUY IT LOLOMG IT ROX MY UNMATCHED SOX U 
 MUST BUY IT LOLOMG IT ROX MY UNMATCHED SOX U MUST BUY IT LOLOMG IT ROX MY UNMATCHED SOX U MUST 
 BUY IT LOLOMG IT ROX MY UNMATCHED SOX U MUST BUY IT LOLOMG IT ROX MY UNMATCHED SOX U MUST BUY IT 
 LOLOMG IT ROX MY UNMATCHED SOX U MUST BUY IT LOLOMG IT ROX MY UNMATCHED SOX U MUST BUY IT LOLOMG 
 IT ROX MY UNMATCHED SOX U MUST BUY IT LOLOMG IT ROX MY UNMATCHED SOX U MUST BUY IT LOLOMG IT ROX 
 MY UNMATCHED SOX U MUST BUY IT LOLOMG IT ROX MY UNMATCHED SOX U MUST BUY IT LOLOMG IT ROX MY UNMATCHED 
 SOX U MUST BUY IT LOLOMG IT ROX MY UNMATCHED SOX U MUST BUY IT LOLOMG IT ROX MY UNMATCHED SOX U 
 MUST BUY IT LOLOMG IT ROX MY UNMATCHED SOX U MUST BUY IT LOLOMG IT ROX MY UNMATCHED SOX U MUST 
 BUY IT LOLOMG IT ROX MY UNMATCHED SOX U MUST BUY IT LOLOMG IT ROX MY UNMATCHED SOX U MUST BUY IT 
 LOLOMG IT ROX MY UNMATCHED SOX U MUST BUY IT LOLOMG IT ROX MY UNMATCHED SOX U MUST BUY IT LOLOMG 
 IT ROX MY UNMATCHED SOX U MUST BUY IT LOLOMG IT ROX MY UNMATCHED SOX U MUST BUY IT LOLOMG IT ROX 
 MY UNMATCHED SOX U MUST BUY IT LOLOMG IT ROX MY UNMATCHED SOX U MUST BUY IT LOLOMG IT ROX MY UNMATCHED 
 SOX U MUST BUY IT LOLOMG IT ROX MY UNMATCHED SOX U MUST BUY IT LOLOMG IT ROX MY UNMATCHED SOX U 
 MUST BUY IT LOLOMG IT ROX MY UNMATCHED SOX U MUST BUY IT LOLOMG IT ROX MY UNMATCHED SOX U MUST 
 BUY IT LOLOMG IT ROX MY UNMATCHED SOX U MUST BUY IT LOLOMG IT ROX MY UNMATCHED SOX U MUST BUY IT 
 LOLOMG IT ROX MY UNMATCHED SOX U MUST BUY IT LOLOMG IT ROX MY UNMATCHED SOX U MUST BUY IT LOLOMG 
 IT ROX MY UNMATCHED SOX U MUST BUY IT LOLOMG IT ROX MY UNMATCHED SOX U MUST BUY IT LOLOMG IT ROX 
 MY UNMATCHED SOX U MUST BUY IT LOLOMG IT ROX MY UNMATCHED SOX U MUST BUY IT LOLOMG IT ROX MY UNMATCHED 
 SOX U MUST BUY IT LOLOMG IT ROX MY UNMATCHED SOX U MUST BUY IT LOLOMG IT ROX MY UNMATCHED SOX U 
 MUST BUY IT LOLOMG IT ROX MY UNMATCHED SOX U MUST BUY IT LOLOMG IT ROX MY UNMATCHED SOX U MUST 
 BUY IT LOLOMG IT ROX MY UNMATCHED SOX U MUST BUY IT LOLOMG IT ROX MY UNMATCHED SOX U MUST BUY IT 
 LOLOMG IT ROX MY UNMATCHED SOX U MUST BUY IT LOLOMG IT ROX MY UNMATCHED SOX U MUST BUY IT LOLOMG 
 IT ROX MY UNMATCHED SOX U MUST BUY IT LOLOMG IT ROX MY UNMATCHED SOX U MUST BUY IT LOLOMG IT ROX 
 MY UNMATCHED SOX U MUST BUY IT LOLOMG IT ROX MY UNMATCHED SOX U MUST BUY IT LOLOMG IT ROX MY UNMATCHED 
 SOX U MUST BUY IT LOLOMG IT ROX MY UNMATCHED SOX U MUST BUY IT LOLOMG IT ROX MY UNMATCHED SOX U 
 MUST BUY IT LOLOMG IT ROX MY UNMATCHED SOX U MUST BUY IT LOLOMG IT ROX MY UNMATCHED SOX U MUST 
 BUY IT LOLOMG IT ROX MY UNMATCHED SOX U MUST BUY IT LOLOMG IT ROX MY UNMATCHED SOX U MUST BUY IT 
 LOLOMG IT ROX MY UNMATCHED SOX U MUST BUY IT LOLOMG IT ROX MY UNMATCHED SOX U MUST BUY IT LOLOMG 
 IT ROX MY UNMATCHED SOX U MUST BUY IT LOLOMG IT ROX MY UNMATCHED SOX U MUST BUY IT LOLOMG IT ROX 
 MY UNMATCHED SOX U MUST BUY IT LOLOMG IT ROX MY UNMATCHED SOX U MUST BUY IT LOLOMG IT ROX MY UNMATCHED 
 SOX U MUST BUY IT LOLOMG IT ROX MY UNMATCHED SOX U MUST BUY IT LOLOMG IT ROX MY UNMATCHED SOX U 
 MUST BUY IT LOLOMG IT ROX MY UNMATCHED SOX U MUST BUY IT LOLOMG IT ROX MY UNMATCHED SOX U MUST 
 BUY IT LOLOMG IT ROX MY UNMATCHED SOX U MUST BUY IT LOLOMG IT ROX MY UNMATCHED SOX U MUST BUY IT 
 LOLOMG IT ROX MY UNMATCHED SOX U MUST BUY IT LOLOMG IT ROX MY UNMATCHED SOX U MUST BUY IT LOLOMG 
 IT ROX MY UNMATCHED SOX U MUST BUY IT LOLOMG IT ROX MY UNMATCHED SOX U MUST BUY IT LOLOMG IT ROX 
 MY UNMATCHED SOX U MUST BUY IT LOLOMG IT ROX MY UNMATCHED SOX U MUST BUY IT LOLOMG IT ROX MY UNMATCHED 
 SOX U MUST BUY IT LOLOMG IT ROX MY UNMATCHED SOX U MUST BUY IT LOLOMG IT ROX MY UNMATCHED SOX U 
 MUST BUY IT LOLOMG IT ROX MY UNMATCHED SOX U MUST BUY IT LOLOMG IT ROX MY UNMATCHED SOX U MUST 
 BUY IT LOLOMG IT ROX MY UNMATCHED SOX U MUST BUY IT LOLOMG IT ROX MY UNMATCHED SOX OMG IT ROX MY 
 UNMATCHED SOX U MUST BUY IT LOLOMG IT ROX MY UNMATCHED SOX U MUST BUY IT LOLOMG IT ROX MY UNMATCHED 
 SOX U MUST BUY IT LOLOMG IT ROX MY UNMATCHED SOX U MUST BUY IT LOLOMG IT ROX MY UNMATCHED SOX U 
 MUST BUY IT LOLOMG IT ROX MY UNMATCHED SOX U MUST BUY IT LOLOMG IT ROX MY UNMATCHED SOX U MUST 
 BUY IT LOLOMG IT ROX MY UNMATCHED SOX U MUST BUY IT LOLOMG IT ROX MY UNMATCHED SOX U MUST BUY IT 
 LOLOMG IT ROX MY UNMATCHED SOX U MUST BUY IT LOLOMG IT ROX MY UNMATCHED SOX U MUST BUY IT LOLOMG 
 IT ROX MY UNMATCHED SOX U MUST BUY IT LOLOMG IT ROX MY UNMATCHED SOX U MUST BUY IT LOLOMG IT ROX 
 MY UNMATCHED SOX U MUST BUY IT LOLOMG IT ROX MY UNMATCHED SOX U MUST BUY IT LOLU MUST BUY IT LOLOMG 
 IT ROX MY UNMATCHED SOX U MUST BUY IT LOLOMG IT ROX MY UNMATCHED SOX U MUST BUY IT LOL DARK_BISHOP 
 IS A NOOB LMAO NOOB 
::::::

::::::
UserName: croco13
Rating: 4.7
Date: Jan 25, 2006 11:48 am PT
Review:  I really can't believe it !!!
  Before this game i was a hardcore Civilization fan, but now it really has hit my believes in the 
 games future.
  Civilzation III was the bom al was perfect but it's so called ' successor ' is a really a hit in 
 the balls.
  The battle scene is rubbish and boring.
  the only good things are: the graphics and the sound
  but for the rest, IT IS A PIECE OF TRASH 
 !!!
  If you want to go to war you have to wait 100000 years before you got to your enemy's city and 
 above all that if you really are fighting you probably get enough it.
  
  Thats my opinion now better go back to the store and try to get my money back.
  sorry fore the 
 poor English. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: theunwn
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jan 24, 2006 8:21 am PT
Review:  I have played Civilization since it first came out for MS-DOS. To date I don't think there has 
 been a title that has devoted more of my time than this one. The latest addition holds true to 
 the previous ones. Cid and the team have shown up with their best revision yet. 
  
  Since playing the last Civilization I have found the new one to be better on so many levels I don't 
 know where to start. 
  
  Lets start out with the basics. After installing the game I saw the option to run the tutorial. 
 Being a vetran to the game I decided to check it out first. This is a godsend to newcomers. You 
 open up with a starting map and good ol' Cid Meier comes on the screen. He walks you through step 
 by step on how to build a civilization (right down the keystrokes!) This tutorial is perfect for 
 the newcomer of the series. 
  After peddling through most of the tutorial I started up a new game and was greatly pleased with 
 the much larger selection of Civilizations and leaders. This game is all about bonuses. Not only 
 does your chosen tribe start with their custom attributes and special units but the individual 
 leaders (sometimes a civ can have more than one choice for a leader) have their own stats to bring 
 to the table. 
  Coming from Civ3 (a game that was taxing to play even at cheiftain level) you have what I call 
 the noobstart (also known as settler level) . I picked the Germans and started to work on my civ. 
 Getting underway I was expecting more of the same: more units, more technologies and more stuff 
 to confuse the player... I was plesantly surprised by the lack thereof. 
  True the game does have more of the forementioned but the pluses come from the way they are presented 
 to the player. Suggestions for units and technologies actually give you a fairly good idea of why 
 the AI chooses them for you. Another HUGE plus to the game is the locater that pops up for both 
 workers and settlers. Now you can find the best spots in which to set up towns, build mines, add 
 cottages (nice to see tiles with commerce boosts in the game too!) 
  The biggest oogling I did came when I started building my military. I gathered some units and sacked 
 a barbarian town and looked at my option screen to see a real gem of a surprise. Instead of my 
 unit going to veteran status I now had the option to "Upgrade" my unit with various enhancements 
 such as +10% strength, +25% when attacking cities and so on. Now the player can customize each 
 individual unit and continue to build them up just like an RPG with experience points. This really 
 makes things fun to set up specialized armies in which to dispatch your foes and on the defensive 
 side, repel intruders. 
  One element that had me a little worried when reading the previews was the integration of specific 
 religions into the game. This aspect just adds to the fun and intrigue of the game. With specific 
 religion you can get on the good side of your rivals if you happen to share the same belief system. 
 Likewise you can annoy them if you follow a "heathen belief". You can send missionaries to spread 
 the good word and win over neighboring rivals. 
  Another thing to add to the list is the introduction of specialized citizens. These guys can boost 
 a town by completing research on an undiscovered technology, trigger a golden age, create a work 
 of art to skyrocket your towns culture or even build specialized "wonders". 
  I know this sounds like a lot for anyone to digest but again Civilization 4 feeds you these things 
 in easy to digest bite sized pieces. The list of improvements over the others could go on for ages 
 but I strongly reccomend you pick up this title to see for yourself... Oh yeah and Leonard Nimoy 
 (Spock) does alot of the narration in the game (bonus!) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tnguyen496
Rating: 6
Date: Jan 23, 2006 1:27 pm PT
Review:  I've been anticipated this for a long time. Since I last played civ 3 (and still playing it) , civ 
 4 is a disappointment. They are focusing too much on the graphics that the screen is very cluttery. 
 What ever happened to the city locator? In civ 3 at least I know what city is belonging to which 
 leader by looking at the city locator and go right to it. In Civ 4, I'm trying to terminate one 
 of the leaders in the game but it took forever, because he has one city left in the land of no-where. 
 I had to go through the map for like an hour to find the left-over city. Also, why don't the leader 
 gets "Furious" with me when I'm attacking their land? -- they only get "Cautious" and won't talk 
 to me. Whatever happened to negotiating for alliance? Is there no price to pay someone to attack 
 people with you? They all are so nice to each other. Rarely do I see someone actually wants to 
 join me in a fight against other people, unless I initiating the fight first. Anyway, I'll give 
 it some more time but I'm not putting away my civ 3 just yet. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NEED_PS3_BAAAD
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 23, 2006 9:59 am PT
Review:  Civilization 4 is a Turn-base strategy that will enslave you. Sid Meier probably owns you right 
 now if you have the game. WARNING: IF YOU BUY CIVILIZATION 4 THEN SAY BYE TO YOUR FRIENDS AND SAY 
 HELLO TO YOUR NEW MASTER, SID MEIER. Although, you only will need a good store bought computer 
 to play this, I highly recommend you get a custom module. You'll need at least (for maximize fun) 
 a Pentium D 2.8 GHz., 1 MBs. of Rams, and a 256 MBs. Graphics card with a good shader system. Now 
 that Thats over, let's review the game.
  
  Gameplay: A phenomenal experience, although there are many unnecessary shortcuts, these can be 
 easily avoided, so it doesn't count. The came has multiple amount of civilizations with there own 
 unique unit and is filled with intelligent A. I., and has more then 8 difficulties (IF YOU PLAY 
 DEITY, MAKE SURE THAT YOU PREPARED TO GET OWNED BY OTHER NATIONS AS YOU WHIMPER AT THE FEET TO 
 YOUR ULTIMATE DEMISE.) which is uncommon for most games. The A. I. is so intellectual that they 
 can pull out the least unexpected moves. If you turn on barbarians, you will be constantly barrage 
 by them. There is so much more but let's continue.
  
  Graphics: The graphics (for Turn-base Strategy) is will done, you will notice that when you zoom 
 in anywhere in the world ( and yes, civilization is a world) is filled with life. Not much to be 
 said here, let see.
  
  Good Graphics: yes
  Innovative Terrain: check
  Good Camera Angles: What camera angles?
  Great Depth Perception: YEEEEEESSSSSSS!!!!!!!!
  Special 
 Effects: Tremendous Amounts
  
  Sound: the sounds for civilization is a spectacle, every civilization comes with its own language. 
 If you zoom in, you'll here sounds that help elaborate the terrain. Although there's song with 
 girly choirs, it has a good original soundtrack.
  
  So in the end, this is the value of 2 Halo 2s combine.
  
  I give this game a Perfect Score 
 of 10 out of 10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kalaxangr
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jan 23, 2006 7:47 am PT
Review:  I have played all the series of civs from civ 1 to civ 4 plus alpha centauri and call to power. i 
 have spent lots of hours playing civ 2 and 3.
  So from my potition and after having finished civ 4 2 times at prince difficulty and now i am first 
 at score at monarch, i can say that civ 4 is extremely addictive even more than civ 2 because of 
 its new brilliant features such as Religion, New strategic, luxury, health resources and much more.
 
  However the most important is tha it is the most balanced civ.
  Keep ti and try it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: crismonkazuma
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jan 22, 2006 6:18 pm PT
Review:  Civilization IV is a awesome game which allows you be able to take control of any country and when 
 you do you can control you nation as a pacifist ar a warlord and there are so many things to do 
 you research nuclear program and stuff like that to sum all this game up totally awersome a must 
 buy for anybody who was a computer and if you don't have one go to one of your friends and use 
 their computer to play this game and if you played this game and didn't like it that's your opinion 
 but I personally love this game......... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Axsuul
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jan 22, 2006 2:46 pm PT
Review:  This is hands down one of the best strategy games I have ever played. Everything runs smooth and 
 after playing it for a couple of hours you want to go back for more. Did I mention this game is 
 dangerously addicting? If the game didn't take ages to complete one little skirmish, I would still 
 be playing it. The replayability on this game is amazing and you could really just play this game 
 for one year and not get bored.
  
  This game also sports an amazing soundtrack that adapts to whatever era you are in. 
  
  The 
 graphics are not that spectacular, but they are just right. Don't really need the eyecandy when 
 the gameplay in this game is more important. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RFNeo
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jan 21, 2006 5:42 am PT
Review:  Civilization IV is all you would expect from a great series and more.
  
  Gameplay: The main gameplay remains intact, which is a good thing as it has always been the core 
 success of the Civilization games. With this installment all the little bugs and annoying things 
 have been refined and newly added elements have been implemented. The religion, while at the end 
 part of the game may not have any strategic impact, does offer rewarding strategic elements for 
 the most part of your civilizations history. 
  
  Games can be a lot faster and simpler than before. This can be a good thing but also a bad thing. 
 Sometimes you will find yourself just flying thru the different ages without really getting a taste 
 of new technologies or improvements. This is minor though, because the whole experience is just 
 better. The unit balance has been fixed from previous Civs. And now its not likely an archer will 
 beat a modern tank
  
  The diplomacy has also improved as now you have many more options. Not only you can trade cities, 
 goods, money or technologies; you can also open borders and influence your opponents to wage war 
 or make peace with other civilizations.
  
  The new great people system is also amazing. You can just concentrate in the cultural aspects 
 of a city and use these people to improve your influence, technology
  
  The only complaint I do have about gameplay is the end games AI. Sometimes it can be too difficult, 
 or even impossible to take an enemys city by force when you both have reached the latest technology 
 level.
  
  Graphics: Well, the new engine has definitely improved the graphics from past games. Still, since 
 this is a turn base strategy game, I do not think graphics play an important part in the whole 
 experience. Other than that, we could say the graphics are just a bit above average by todays 
 standards.
  
  Sound: There is nothing really worth mentioning in this department. The intro music can get repetitive 
 and the in game music is not amazing. Sound effects are pretty nice and in line with previous installments.
 
  
  Value: If you want countless hours of fun, this is the game for you. You will get little sleep 
 at times with this game because its so addictive. True, the end game is bogged down and will be 
 repetitive, but your will not mind starting a new game from zero.
  
  Tilt: Well, what can I say? I love strategy games and this is one of the best strategy games out 
 there, if not the best. If you are not into the whole turn based games thing, then just skip this 
 one; but if you have even a remote interest in strategy games, go to the shop right now and get 
 Civilization IV
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: yab_007
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jan 21, 2006 3:54 am PT
Review:  Civilisation 4 is perhaps the most heavily rated game of all time in the pc section. it is not 
 a hazard that we have such a rating for that game... many of us have surely played rome total war 
 and all those who played that game said that it was addictive to such a point that they kept playing 
 the game on and on... similarly civilisation 4 is one of the most addictive game i have ever played... 
 its simple to understand the basic reason of this... just a glimpse of what the reason is:
  Humans have a natural instinct of capuring new territories everywhere they pass through. therefore 
 we get the same instinct in playing strategy games... we get the feeling of conquering everywhere 
 using our own strategies... so guys try this game. i can assure you that its no ordinary game... 
 it has everything to keep you busy for a long while... have fun... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Spaceoffz
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jan 20, 2006 3:18 pm PT
Review:  This is the Greatest Civilization in the series to some extents.
  There is now 6 Ages, a lot of handy new features, and the game graphics dont buzz at you!
  
 
  Scoring:
  
  Difficulty:
  Just right.
  They thought of everydin, they set a massive amount of difficulty levels!
  
  Time spent Playing, 
 to date:
  20 to 40 Hours.
  Its amazing how addicting this game is! its unbelieviable aslong as u got gud pc.
  
  Learning 
 Curve:
  4 or more Hours.
  You learn loads of things about building civilizations, history and a sorts all through the game.
 
  
  The Sound in this game is something i LOVE.
  I like some of the music so much i put it in my psp wastin some of my only 1GB memorycard. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gulbraa
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jan 19, 2006 4:01 am PT
Review:  Civilizations 4 is the best in the Civilization series. Why do you ask... Because more techs, buildings, 
 ETC. The graphics are much better than the 3 and the game is just fun. Is there anything else you 
 could ask in a game? There was one glitch that made me made when I installed the game, it said 
 that some files could not be installed, so when I started playing the game the menu would show 
 up as (***/***/ARE-YOU-SURE) and stuff like this. But then I might be cursed. But getting back 
 to the game I did love the way each leader talked and said stuff like We hate you but we will let 
 you live and stuff like that.
  
  So instead of reading my review play the game!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ahsanthekiller
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jan 19, 2006 2:00 am PT
Review:  Along the way you may take your civilization in any direction you wish with several different ways 
 to win. Unlike previous Civ games several of the available civilizations have two leaders with different 
 traits and favorite civics. However the special unit each Civilization gets is the same no matter 
 what leader is in charge.
  With every instances of a series new things are added and old things are taken away. Listed In 
 This section is the new ideas that have been added and for returning players some parts that have 
 been replaced.
  Several Wonders and what they do have been added and changed - In previous games each building 
 added a cost. Now more cities and distance from capital increases costs - Now some RPG elements 
 have been added - Barbarians still exist but now Wild Animals are stalking about. These animals 
 cannot attack cities nor can they cross into cultural boundaries except to attack a unit on the 
 edge. - :D
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bigboss766
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jan 18, 2006 7:22 pm PT
Review:  WOW!... What can i say about CIV 4??... Holy Jesus it is awsome!!!! They really captured the feel 
 of the civilizations in this installment. It has so many cool features and new leaders. They even 
 fixed the soldier problem when a spearman could like blow up a tank if they were defending. The 
 game makes use of all the features of the game very well. The only problem i have with it is the 
 UN. GEEZZ WHAT A POINTLESS FEATURE!!!!!!!! OMG it is so dumb and pointless, it's boring as hell 
 and no fun at all. "diplomatic victory'" ooo... funn... ya but anyway everything else is great. 
 The graphics coulod be better but there not bad. All the countries give you something new to try 
 out and the world builder is quite fun. All the new senarios that they put in are a lot of fun 
 to. You have a nice veriaty ranging from ancient times to the american revolution and up. In my 
 opinion, if you like the other civ games you should not miss this and for those who are new to 
 strat games be prepared to be patient. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Evolution_remix
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jan 18, 2006 11:17 am PT
Review:  nice nice nice nice nice nice nice nice nice nice nice nice nice nice nice nice nice nice nice 
 nice nice nice nice nice nice nice nice nice nice nice nice nice nice nice nice nice nice nice 
 nice nice nice nice nice nice nice nice nice nice nice nice nice nice nice nice nice nice nice 
 nice nice nice nice nice nice nice nice nice nice nice nice nice nice nice nice nice nice nice 
 nice nice nice nice nice nice nice nice nice nice nice nice nice nice nice nice nice nice nice 
 nice nice nice nice nice nice nice nice nice nice nice nice nice nice nice nice nice nice nice 
 nice nice nice nice nice nice nice nice nice nice nice nice nice nice nice nice nice nice nice 
 nice nice nice nice nice nice nice nice nice nice nice nice nice nice nice nice nice nice nice 
 nice nice nice nice nice nice nice nice nice nice nice nice nice nice nice nice nice nice nice 
 nice nice nice nice nice nice nice nice nice nice nice nice nice nice nice nice nice nice nice 
 nice nice nice nice nice nice nice nice nice nice 
  
  P. S. NICE 
::::::

::::::
UserName: saintivan
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jan 17, 2006 4:52 pm PT
Review:  I have played this game twice through, and as mentioned numerous times, it is VERY addicting. Hours 
 disappear quickly. There is a bit more meat to it than Civ 3, and less time needed to quell angry 
 citizens. 
  The culture element is a bit faulty, as you are not rewarded for having massive culture points 
 as you would think. Another small minus is it takes a long time to amass a usuable military force 
 and move them all where you want. 
  Graphics, hey, that's not why we get Civ games. That said, they aren't bad. Music.... here I have 
 a MAJOR gripe. The theme song starts with a nice enchanting female voice.... and then descends into 
 some African tribal rabble that to this day I cannot get out of my head (though I turned the music 
 off long ago) . That's not all that's bad: the incessant clump of hooves in your towns and cacaphonous 
 beeping of car horns in your cities is a needless irritant. Thankfully, the sounds of nature, wind, 
 ocean, birds and others are nice. Anyway, my total score will be dragged down by the abnormally 
 poor music and annoying sounds in the cities.
  Gameplay is very good, except the Civpedia is poorly organized (as compared to Civ 3) , and it takes 
 a while to figure everything out. 
  Diplomacy is another weak format. I went to war to save one Civ's ass, and the next thing you know, 
 they're annoyed at me (I went to war again later on in the game after the two had signed a peace 
 agreement) . After the early stages of the game, pretty much everyone is annoyed or furious at you, 
 and you can no longer trade resources or tech. 
  All in all, addicting, yes, you will get your money's worth for sure. As for comments it is just 
 Civ 3 with a few more bells and whistles, I can't really argue. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: purdypog
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jan 16, 2006 10:13 pm PT
Review:  I have played Civ for years. I think every new version has been a lot better than the last, and 
 thank goodness for "Double your pleasure" mod which kept me playing Civ 3 after I got bored with 
 the regular game.
  
  Anyway, I can see why the non-hardcore folks might not appreciate the game too much because they 
 probably never crank up the difficulty or explore different ways to win.
  
  Suffice it to say that they finally put some "teeth" into the AI and made those buggers pretty 
 tough. So, all in all a nice effort and I suspect that the DYP guys will make it even better very 
 soon.
  
  Good music for once, decent graphics (but I guess I'm spoiled) and relatively well thought out 
 interface.
  
  My 2c, have fun and don't be dissuaded from trying the game if you are a fan of strategy.
  
 
  Regards,
  
  Purdypog 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Simslover100
Rating: 3.4
Date: Jan 16, 2006 12:09 pm PT
Review:  I bought this at Walmart for $50 dollars. Thought it was supposed to be good, but was I in for 
 a surprise. It sucked after after about 3 hours. It got repetitive fast, too cartoonish, and the 
 fighting was really stupid. Esrb shouldn't have rated it E10+ more like E. Only worth $20 dollars. 
 I'm not buying any Civilization games after this one. In my opinion go buy something else. I'm 
 a Star Wars fan and should not buy a turned based startegy game except from Star War and Rome: 
 Total War. Also this is a little offtopic but I can't reach Gamespot about this, could you guys 
 give me back my forums privalages. I have not been modded on here or gamefaqs. Please, I beg of 
 you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: telroan
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 16, 2006 9:48 am PT
Review:  While the addition of civics reminiscent of the Alpha Centauri Social Engineering, religion and 
 unit abilities upgrades bring some new facets to the game other aspects are more annoying. In particular 
 the new queuing system that essentially forces you to use keyboard short-cuts to modify to build 
 list rather than just allowing you to modify the list directly forces more micromanagement than 
 Civ III's system. Additionally it seems like the game takes even longer to get going in the beginning 
 than any of the previous civs did and it ends in the modern age instead of stretching into the 
 future which means the tech tree feels truncated. Having played all of Sid Meir's games it seems 
 like he might be running of of new ideas and just re-mixing his old game not that the result isn't 
 fun but it is very formulaic. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: madek117
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jan 14, 2006 2:30 pm PT
Review:  This Game is without a doubt one of the best stategy games I have ever played. For people who have 
 already played Civilization games before, this game took a major step in the right direction. People 
 who have never played before may have some trouble with more advanced concepts but everyone should 
 be able to grasp the basics fairly easily. This game will not dissapoint you.
  
  The game has changed bassicaly by just making gameplay smoother and easier. This new Civ grants 
 you far more control over your civilization. It's not much harder but it does seem to be a little 
 more time consuming. Wich if you have ever played civ before you know meens that you better have 
 a good half a day to complete one game. That however is the only downside I could find save one. 
 Its nothing new but civilizations still lack more civ specific units. My hopes where kind of let 
 down when I saw the same basic units for every civ. I geuss I was hoping for say.... with the English 
 the units in the gun powder era would be more specific to them... giving them redcoats and that 
 sort of thing. This is not a big deal though. Civ is just as good as It has ever been and even 
 more addicting. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: AzraeLskI
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 14, 2006 10:50 am PT
Review:  I bought this game mainly because I saw that it got some pretty good ratings on this site. I did 
 right (up to some point)
  Graphics in this game are really good in fact these are the best graphics in any turn-based strategy 
 game I played
  
  Sound is also good but it becomes annoying apter a certain time.
  
  Now, the best things about this game are (of course) civilizations and their advancement true the 
 time. I really liked the researches and the growing factor but I was really disappointed by the 
 wars You can only control one unit and you don`t even get to see the battle.
  
  Still it`s a great game and I warmly recommend it 
::::::

::::::
UserName: -_locky_-
Rating: 6.3
Date: Jan 13, 2006 5:41 pm PT
Review:  Civ 4 seems to be the best pc strategy game in ages, - well according to gamespot reveiws and some 
 player reviews, but the sad truth is it aint the much better. The gameplay is almost excactly the 
 same but i do thank the developers of the game for taking out the annoying micromanagment such 
 as pollution and having to control workers. Also the game has 3 different speeds but the epic game 
 should logically be the same length as say an average civ 3 game but it is much quicker. Sure, 
 this may be good for multiplayer or people that wanted a quicker game but that is what the two 
 other speeds are for. 
  
  The new AI was supposed to be much better but the only difference in the diplomatic aspect is the 
 points. You get negative points for rejecting deals and positive for helping them out. Will they 
 help you out by maybe lowering the asking price for tech? no. In fact i dont really see much of 
 a change.
  
  The new things about civ 4 are good but could be alot better. Thing such as religion, they are 
 all excactly the same and have no personality. It would be much better if they offered more of 
 a difference besides names icons and temples. It would be much better if say different religions 
 offered different things, such as culture or different units such as a crusader for the Christians. 
 You should be able to have the ability to make holidays for religions and put an amount of money 
 into publicsing them to become something massive like Christmas which would make your people happy 
 and give you a massive income benifet. But religion only offers money for the person that discovers 
 it and makes it their state religion.
  
  Some of the things that have gone are the build up your palace option or leaders getting dressed 
 in different clothing for different eras. It wouldve been fun to see Roosevelt as a tribesman or 
 Gengis Khan as a business man. Or being able to have a view of your city with all the buildings. 
 It was these small but fun things that made the game just that much better.
  
  Although there are good things about civ 4 such as better graphics and upgrades for units there 
 are many things gone and many things done but not well. Basically someone new to the civ series 
 will love it but the gamers that have played the original or 2,3 and the other ones will find that 
 it is very alike to the others. To those people i say leave it for a year or so and come back when 
 you have forgotten about it and it will seem relitively new to you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: VWyrm
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jan 13, 2006 9:35 am PT
Review:  Graphics : It is amazing to see flocks of birds fleeing as one of your units enters a square. All 
 the attention put to details, such as the tides and the flowing rivers, the characters of your 
 units making small gestures as you watch them close, the workers in action. And the battle are 
 fun to watch, as well as the mimics of the other leaders. The animation of a wonder being completed 
 is just fine also. The introduction animation is impressive and the one which plays while the world 
 is being created, which is a "clin d'oeil" to the first installment... on old paper. With all this, 
 one can understand why you need a good graphics card!
  
  Sound & music : You never get tired of the background music. I even delayed ending a turn in order 
 to listen to one just a little longer. The sounds of the wind, the sea, the animals... But also 
 the one of the battle with the death complaint of a dying soldier... All this add to the immersion 
 to the game. I always step on my chair when I hear the sound of the horn announcing a war! And 
 what to say about good quotes read by Mr. Nimoy for almost all the techs found... Some of these 
 quotes can be used in conversations outside the game too!
  
  Gameplay : After all, it is a game and nice graphics, sound and music won't save a bad game! You 
 have so many options available. First of all, the game supports several diffrent languages, though 
 some texts weren't translated (forgotten, probably) , while there are some mistakes in the translation 
 of others (I play the game in French) , but the attention was there! Only Mr. Nimoy wasn't replaced 
 by other people's voices in their respective languages, which would have necessitated more disk 
 space, but also would have added to the production costs of hiring other narrators.
  
  Those new to the series will start playing at the lower levels (Settler and Chieftain) in which 
 they will quickly dominate the computer controlled civs (the player has too many advantages in 
 research and all) , then they will move up towards higher levels of the difficulty ladder. I really 
 like playing on the biggest terran map (don't be fooled : all maps are generated randomly, so you 
 never know the world at first!) with all the nations on it at the start (we're 18 different civilizations 
 battling to expand and win!) . I like the fact that you never have the impression that the computer 
 civs are all together against you anymore! In previous installment, after you had traded a technology 
 (a tech) to a computer civs, you were sure that all others were to get it quickly after that! Now, 
 if you do not fall behing in military techs and in number of units on the board, nobody will harass 
 you.
  
  War gain to be short, just like in real life. So, before starting one, be sure to have what it 
 takes to win it quickly. Personnally, I create one stack (2 to 4 artillery + 4+ top military units) 
 for each city to capture (ideally one for each ennemy's town that is reachable by foot!) . You reach 
 them, you capture them quickly.
  
  The tedious part is at the beginning, when you have nothing to do during your turns than... press 
 enter to en the turn as you wait for something to be built! Especially if you automated your workers. 
 The new option "Workers leave forest" coming with the 1.52 patch is great, because they were replacing 
 about any forest with farms. You were ending up producing lots of food, but almost no "hammers" 
 in big towns! Building anything was taking forever in some towns on the sea border!
  
  Overall : It is a VERY addictive game. Telling yourself that you gonna play for one hour is foolish, 
 as 3 or 4 hours will pass by unnoticed! Hence the integrated alarm clock! Something so addictive 
 cannot be bad! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dannyknowles
Rating: 4.5
Date: Jan 12, 2006 6:17 am PT
Review:  its like civ 3 with graphics and civ 3 was boring aswell. i cant see how so many people can play 
 this game over and over when its the same every time. the graphics aint even that much better either 
 whats all the hype about. im getting fed up waiting 4 a game to keep me occupied over a few hours. 
 and why can long bows fire rockets and take down helicopters thats just pathetic? the only game 
 worth buying in any country at the moment is half life.
  make sure u get the demo 1st because if i did i wudnt of wasted my time buying this poor game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sangmond5
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jan 11, 2006 5:22 pm PT
Review:  This game makes you want to stay up to the wee hours in the morning drinking jolt cola and staring 
 at the screen. I didn't think that the learning curve was too long. It was about right for a game 
 this complex. The graphics are good and the sound is good. What I really like about the game is 
 the history that you learn, and of course good ol' spocks voice. The game is also complex enough 
 that everytime you play things will be different. Each game is a brand new game. All in all this 
 is a must buy for any gamer, young or old. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: argianas
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jan 11, 2006 9:44 am PT
Review:  GAMEPLAY: The premise of this turn-based game is pretty simple, with the title being the best description. 
 You start off with a settler, and over time you expand your boundaries and add more cities, raise 
 and upgrade your military, provide the quality of life for your residents, expand your culture, 
 research new technologies, and so forth. Unlike most strategy games, a military victory isn't your 
 only option, it's possible to win without ever going on the offensive (or if you're lucky defensive 
 too) . You can also win by being elected the president of the UN, by winning the space race to Alpha 
 Centauri, by gaining three epic cultural cities, and others. The lengthy tutorial helps you get 
 into the game, which is easy to pick up. In this version, the player gets to introduce religion, 
 which can provide some cultural bonuses depending on the path you take, but can further anger a 
 rival nation with a rival religion. This game also did a good job of improving on the less popular 
 features of the previous game, plus it does a good job of cutting out a lot of the tedious micromanagement 
 if you desire it. There are a wide range of difficulty settings so you should have no trouble finding 
 equal footing for your game, plus the type of map you play on is rather customizable. This game 
 also has an online multiplayer option, which seems to have been implimented rather well from my 
 limited experience.
  
  GRAPHICS: They're pretty decent, giving you what you need without going for eye candy just for 
 the sake of it. Since this is turn-based and you can take your time planning your move, you can 
 probably still get a lot out of this game even if your PC barely meets the specs.
  
  SOUND: The title track is rather memorable, and the music from the game, while it has the potential 
 of getting annoying since you'll be listening to it so much, somehow manages to avoid this as its 
 in the background and seems to change slightly as you progress though the different ages. The sound 
 effects from each unit are also pretty well done. Each time you finish researching a new technology, 
 Leonary Nimoy reads a quote associated with it, which sounds great and makes you wish he had even 
 more lines than he does.
  
  VALUE: Very high replay value, and once you start playing you'll likely have trouble stopping (though 
 single player games can be saved at pretty much any time) since taking one more turn is just so 
 addictive. The online multiplayer just adds to its lifespan. The only minor drawback for some people 
 may be that every game is just starting up on a random map, there's no included campaign with any 
 specific goals in each mission, though there goes seem to be a selection of mods that will allow 
 you to do something like this.
  
  TILT: While I can play most games on a schedule just fine, this one presents a unique addictiveness 
 in that once I start a game I just can't stop until well after I get physically tired. There's 
 just not much on the market that's as impossible to put down as this game is, there's just something 
 about it that keeps you coming back for more. It's pretty obvious why GameSpot named this the 2005 
 PC game of the year and was a finalist for the game of the year itself. Sid Meier did it again. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JJMikhail
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jan 11, 2006 6:05 am PT
Review:  Sid Meier deserves the title "Genius". From the first Civilsation game that I have played, not 
 once has the game disappointed me. The game runs well since it does not require a very high spec 
 (although for you get optimised performance, you should think of high ram and a strong processor) . 
 So, I failed to find one problem when installing and actually starting the game up.
  
  Strategy games can have an end point, so will Civilisation IV but this game has endless opportunties. 
 Yes, all we do is sit there and click the mouse but yet we are so addicted to it. The Civilisation 
 games that I refer to are the ones actually have "Sid Meier" title slapped onto the disc. These 
 games may not be the best of the best but they will always have the title 'classic'. Why? Because 
 the game will be brought back from the archives and put onto my PC as it always has a strange attraction.
 
  
  The progession from the older Civilisation games is incredible, you will not be disappointed. You 
 will find different ways of exploring your path and how you want to run your country, you be ruthless 
 or be passive, combination of both, be first to give freedom to your country and spread the word, 
 it adds the combination of real life and be implemented so that we can have a bit of fun playing 
 politics. This is just many of the new added features, because you find so many, you just want 
 to keep to it and find more new stuff which is war bit, I will explain this later.
  
  The graphics are significantly improved from the last time, especially by using 3D units, which 
 to be honest, its a the greatest part of Civ, in fact, probably the last thing that you will say, 
 "Wow, look at those graphics!".
  
  Never the less, its a good start, Sid Meier has revolutionised strategy games. Its no longer a 
 simple game of creating settler, build city, improve land and fight battles, you have to find your 
 own path and even use dirty tricks to success.
  
  This was my first game, I started off with three cities growing fast, the help guide was saying 
 that I should get more settlers to expand the empire. I did so but ran into a few problems, Barbarians. 
 The Barbarians are now a nuisance more than ever, they plunder, destroy city roads/irrigation and 
 also razed down cities. I found myself stuck in a place where I had to fight. No longer could I 
 be lenient, my empire would collapse and not expand.
  
  So, after bringing in archers and spearman, I managed to hold off the barbarians and expand the 
 borders. This is the thing, we can't just wait and think that everything will just turn up, thought, 
 implementing and action needs to happen. However, titles are usually a good thing to have, I call 
 myself a dictator, well that I am personally but I tend to have larger empires around because they 
 are more focused on expansion and trade, these are called expansionists. In fact, you may well 
 change your style and approach every time as things get better or for the worse.
  
  Diplomacy and War is another improved and modernised version of what you will expect to come across 
 in real life. Protocol language is not exactly used in Civilisation IV but you do have to be careful 
 on what you say and do during the time of advancing further into the game. One very good example, 
 although the Americans like the trading and culture, such as using Christianity as the state religion, 
 they did not like me being tough on other Civs, such as the Arabians (yes, it can be unrealistic, 
 but always fun!) . From here, if you want to improve that relation with the Americans, you will 
 need to arrange a ceasefire with the Arabians. Other ways could include to give technology to them, 
 goods or even convert to the background and style of government.
  
  Another thing I would like to touch on after adoring so much of the game is the battles. No more 
 do we have a chance of a Archer having a chance against a Rifleman. This is down to pure fire power 
 and timing. The chance is given to those who have disadvantages, such as weak defensive units to 
 get promotions, so they more health and/or a special bonus of having a 20% extra defence whilst 
 on hills. Civ IV now allows you to examine the enemy and battlefield and then plan your attack, 
 you can weaken defences of cities, bombard and actually allow a final assault to take charge to 
 finish on the remaining defences.
  
  With all these advancements in gameplay and in graphics, Sid Meier and his team have explored the 
 real world and made more discoveries. I wonder what else they've yet to find.
  
  I can not wait for Civilisation V but my eyes are on Civilisation IV because it's that damm good 
 and will be on it for a long time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Smintar
Rating: 7
Date: Jan 10, 2006 7:41 am PT
Review:  After playing with this game for about an Hour I began to loose interest in it. This site also 
 gave Rirates andother Sid's game a good rating. I really wander if they really got into these games? 
 I just dont see how they or anyone else can score these so high? I sometimes think that they just 
 like Sid.
  
  IAt least to me the game play is at best medicore. Details where more of colors of wow. Which I 
 also believe is over rated. I just didnt find the meat of the game and was really getting tired 
 of the repetition. I also have an issue with scale with this game as was with pirates and the clockor 
 speed of game. My question is where's the beef. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wrednajasobaka
Rating: 5.5
Date: Jan 9, 2006 9:57 pm PT
Review:  I'm a long time Civilization fan and I have played them all from Civilization 1 to Civilization 
 3 and Call to Power games. When Civilization 4 was released I was hesitant to buy it since after 
 playing Civilization games for so long I didn't want to spend another 50$ to get more of the same. 
 But when Gamespot's reviewer has laid so many accolades on the game I decided to give it try.
 
  
  Well, two things are going to happen from now on: I'm not trusting gamespot's review again and 
 I'm not buying another Civ game ever. Don't get me wrong: Civilization 4 is not a bad game and 
 my low score is probably too harsh. But contrary to the review, this game doesn't add much new 
 and it's going to feel like playing same old thing again. 
  
  Most of the changes made to the game are either minor or purely cosmetic. There are more land improvements, 
 buildings, technologies and units but that's to be expected from new game in the series. The gameplay 
 mechanics are same as in all other civ games. 
  The graphics are much nicer but all it accomplishes is that game runs slower. My decent PC chokes 
 when I try to scroll the map too fast and it takes 1-2 minutes to load saved game. When I buy latest 
 FPS I expect resource hog, but not when I buy turn-based strategy game.
  
  I'm not impressed with game's diplomacy or AI either. At best, it seems that nothing has been changed. 
 In Civilization 3 the computer opponents were quicker in creating cities (due to advanced knowledge 
 of land locations) and game was challenging at the times. In Civ 4 I don't see AI compensating 
 for 'cheating' from previous game; the game was easy to play on medium difficulty setting. 
  
  How many trials does it take for Civilization developers to get the combat right? Apparently 
 more than four. I read with incredulity when gamespot's reviewer suggested that strength based 
 combat system eliminates occurrences of obsolete units defeating more modern units. Exactly the 
 opposite is true: while in previous games technologically inferior units defeating more advanced 
 units were isolated cases in the Civ 4 it's going to be pretty common. Get used to enemy's experienced 
 cavalry units defeating helicopters, war elephants defeating infantry units and such.
  
  It's obvious to me that Civilization 4 development team has decided to focus on appearance of the 
 game rather than take the risk improving gameplay. If you are new to the civ series I suppose you'll 
 be pleased (judging from large number of stellar reviews) but to old civ fans it's going to feel 
 like 'been there, done that'. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Fladge
Rating: 1
Date: Jan 9, 2006 8:09 pm PT
Review:  I would love to play this game. However, because 2kGames have released this piece of crap untested 
 beta version and expect users to waste hours un-installing and reinstalling devise drivers and 
 Civ4 with "patches" that they are fully aware will not work (at least with ATI products) . Even 
 worse, Gamespot refers you to the 2kgames site, which 2kgame reps admit list faulty instruction. 
 Then they expect you *trust* their technicians to sift through your computer to investigate why 
 their piece of butt software won't work. Trust is the key word here. A simple search for CIV4 errors 
 will reveal a whole army of angry consumers who are now looking for class action legal options 
 due to the time and effort spent running this gauntlet. Read any of these forums and the reoccurring 
 theme is that 2kgames, Firaxis and Sid Meyers want nothing more to cut and run. And Gamespot gives 
 this game awards? No warnings about system issues, not a peep about their own links contributing 
 to this facade. Shame on you Gamespot. You also have lost my trust. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: osr
Rating: 4.8
Date: Jan 9, 2006 6:41 pm PT
Review:  On my system, an Athlon 3200+, 1.5 GB RAM, 180 GB HD (Maxtor) , GeForce 5700 LE 128MB 8x AGP video, 
 etc. there are crashes and more crashes and freezes too. The autosave feature doesn't work for 
 me either. 5 of my friends have had similar problems.
  I have upgraded the drivers and turned off many things/features/programs in my system, added Firaxis' 
 patch, even tried a different Nvidia video card and it still did all of the above.
  In all fairness Alpha Centauri/Alien Crossfire (think civ 2 as science fiction) also by the Sid 
 Meier/Firaxis cabal also will from time to time freeze so it is in the family tree here.
  Did I like the game when it ran? Yes, but I was never able to play more than 2-300 (game) years 
 with a major glitch or a game withou 2 crashes/freezes.
  Firaxis response was mediocre to poor to my complaints-after all they had my money already. Eventually 
 the parent co. supplied an Enlish (not just language but country ) customer service # that was VERY 
 good but eventually they couldn't make it stable enough to play a full game.)
  Do I recommend it? Only if you rent it and it plays flawlessly on your system (it seems that Nvidia 
 video is a problem for Firaxis.) if you do the above and it works well then consider Civ3 is a 
 little less demanding on hardware, about the same game and available for under $10-20 used versus 
 $49.99 new. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Fascolik
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jan 9, 2006 9:12 am PT
Review:  This game have the most important thing that a game could give you : FUN!
  This game is gonna keep you up late at night!
  
  Gameplay : Improved since civ3, really had 
 no prob with the gameplay but couldnt give 10 because sometime I couldnt move unit to certain point 
 (not because of bug, but because of normal reason in the game, the probleme is taht i wasnt advice 
 of wich reason and it wasnt easy to know wich one)
  
  Graphic : well, the best they could offer for a game this type of game (well the best they could 
 at this moment : 2005)
  
  Sound : The music fit perfectly with the game.
  
  Value : Worth the money.
  
  Tilt : Guilty pleasure ;) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gherman
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 9, 2006 6:40 am PT
Review:  Now, Civ 3 was a great game, maybe one of the best games ever produced, but Civ 4 surpasses it 
 and sets new standards in strategy games. I must admit, although I am a  
 guy, I still managed to get hooked on Civ 4, and now I am playing it all night long. 
  
  This game has it all. As a beginner, the game has automations for you so you dont have to worry 
 about all the advanced settings, but as you go along and learn more and more, the game allows you 
 to fine-tune you mode of playing into the finest detail. Tha graphics are very good and the design 
 as well. 
  
  Therefore ---  10/10 !!!
  
  //Gabriel Gherman, Sweden 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FeanorKurufinve
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jan 9, 2006 3:01 am PT
Review:  Gameplay: They made the game much faster. In civ3 I could play for hours standing in one place; 
 now something is happening every turn and the game take less time. Everything is totally unparalled 
 to other games of the genre. The only thing I didn't like is that cossacs are a Russian unit ( 
 I am from Ukraine and respect the history of my homeland) .
  
  Graphics: That is really our world. There is nothing more to say.
  
  Sound: It's beautifall. 
 I really liked the classsic music in the game. And most of all I liked the opening menu theme; 
 I even made it my ringtone 
  ( I have an LG G1800 ) . Some effects are a little less good then the music but they all deserve 
 10 points.
  
  Value: An amazing replay value and the magnificent online part make this game of great value. But 
 as a rare fan of J. R. R. Tolkien I'd rather read Sylmarillion again.
  
  To sum up, Civ 4 is the greatest game of the year 2005. There is just one thing bad in it: the 
 system requirements are too high for everyone to enjoy this great game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rulx
Rating: 9.9
Date: Jan 8, 2006 6:30 pm PT
Review:  Talk about being thankfull for deciding to learn python. Also I like the way that The videos show 
 construction of the wonders..... Another step up would of course include the workers building them.. The 
 Great people additon is great I always got excited when I mangaed to produce a great leader in 
 civ3 but this is much more enjoyable with the extra options. I think a lot of good mods will be 
 made. I can forsee a lot of fantasy style mods being made (wheel of time, lord of the rings, earthsea, 
 riftwar... and so on) . I can also expect to see d-day reproductions and modded 2nd and 1st world 
 war scenarios.... CANT WAIT. I am allready addicted though so this is all im going to write cause 
 yeah i gotta get back to.... um.... washing the dishes.... yeah thats it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stevenscott14
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jan 8, 2006 8:06 am PT
Review:  Civilisation has been around a while, and it's always been one of the finest strategy games around. 
 But I never thought, as I picked up this game with leftover Christmas money, it would be this good.
 
  
  The first thing that strikes you about this rollicking strategy game is its depth. When you eagerly 
 admire the game case you can't help but marvel at the detail of the instruction manual. I quick-read 
 most of it and it is better, I guarantee you, than most novels in WHSmith or someplace. 
  
  And the game is so deep it is so easy for you to sink eagerly into its vast, detailed, strategic 
 world. You might expect for its interface to be riddled with statistics and information that could 
 probably cover eight square miles if you laid it out on the ground, but it isn't. Civilisation 
 IV's tools, menus and overall gameplay is surprisingly user-friendly, and it's accessible instead 
 of intimidating. 
  
  I don't need to describe the game's point: as always, you are the leader of a nomadic group of 
 settlers that have finally decided to build a civilisation "to stand the test of time". With rival 
 civilisations to barter with, make friends with, go to war with, and battle with, loads of opportunities 
 for growth and flourishment, and plenty of countless microscopic details that blend together to 
 make one of the most complete strategy games around. 
  
  It is the best in the series by a long mile, mainly because it is the best audio-wise, visually 
 and in its presentation. The formula of the great Civ III has been overhauled and polished to absolute 
 perfection; it is no longer generic and ugly, and the soundtrack is pleasant. The narration by 
 Leonard Nimoy is superb, and it's the tiny details that make all the difference between III and 
 IV, like religion, new units, civilisation, more modding power, a World Builder... it's an evolutionary 
 leap forward for the series. 
  
  The graphics are a lot better in this game; instead of a cookie-cutter, top-down landscape, everything 
 is pretty good. You can zoom in and out with the mouse wheel to survey your civilisation at varying 
 levels; you can view the countless little skirmishes in this game at lower levels, and check how 
 your neighbouring cities are doing at higher ones. The random map generator is pretty much the 
 same as last time, but with a new lick of sheen and giant people. Some of your warriors have spears 
 taller than hills and mountains, and some of them are big enough to cross lakes in just a few steps 
 [which you can't do for most units] The units are a lot more detailed and look more individual 
 this time, you can actually tell the difference between some of the more similar units without 
 greater observation; and the landscapes are a bit more varied as well. I've noted wild animals 
 dot some of the more tropical areas. But still, after all this work, Civilisation IV doesn't even 
 touch Age of Empires III or Rome: Total War from a visual viewpoint. 
  
  The audio is improved as well; instead of the slightly generic music of past instalments such as 
 Civ III, this one's original music compositions really fit in with the style of play and are hummable 
 tunes that certainly stay in my head. Some of them are a bit laughable, or maybe that's just my 
 childish point of view [lol] and the proverbs read out by [I think it is anyway] Leonard Nimoy 
 are pretty good as well. Still, some of the tunes get on your nerves after a while, but again, 
 that's probably my warped taste in music. Hehe. 
  
  Civilisation IV should have been a perfect example of a tired-out franchise that is, unfortunately, 
 starting to get overtaken by exciting new stalwarts of the genre. But instead, we are all treated 
 to a perfect example of an incredible strategy game. Buy it now. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dangerklm
Rating: 9.7
Date: Aug 7, 2007 2:13 pm PT
Review:  Civ IV has absolutely everything. Even the thing that makes a great game excellent... a lasting 
 appeal! The first thing you should do when you get this game is play the tutorial level. Even if 
 your familiar with the series, play the tutorial. It provides a nice introduction and Sid himself 
 talks you through the basics. Here you'll play as Julius Caesar... well, Sid will....
  
  Anyway, after you've done this.. the world your Oyster. Play Online Multiplayer. Play a freeform 
 game, which let's you custom the difficulty and world you'll play in. Play a challenging but ultimately 
 rewarding scenario. Your choice. The game play is absolutely amazing. No questions asked, end of, 
 amazing. Addiction ensues. The sound isn't bad, but maybe a little more variety would improve on 
 the game over. The graphics aren't ground breaking and they really don't need to be... but there 
 pretty much flawless. With over 10 different levels of difficulty (AI capability, basically) this 
 game is suited for anyone from Augustus the Unheardof to Gengis 'Hardcore' Khan.
  
  6 different ways of winning mean no two games will be the same. Win by;
  
  1. Being elected 
 world, having built the UN.
  2. Have 70% of world land area or 40% of world population.
  3. Have the highest score come 2050.
  4. Eliminate everyone.
  5. Have 3 cities with legendary 
 status.
  6. Blast off into Space before anyone else.
  
  You'll soon get your own tactic and favouroite Civic options, Civics are ways of life for your 
 people, but be careful not to fall under the way of a heathen religon, because, well, nobody will 
 like you for it. But, if your tactic is war against all men then this shouldn't be a problem, just 
 don't expect to be elected world leader, that takes some careful planning, every move must be carefully 
 considered, it may anger one nation and please another, is it worth it though?
  
  In conclusion, Civ IV is the game of 2005, definately worth owner for anyone who considers themself 
 a PC gamer. Innovative gameplay and endless hours of fun will follow. Make sure you set yourself 
 a limit or we won't see you again until Civ V, and you'll miss all the patchs and add-ons that 
 are sure to follow. A must own. Simple.
  
  Thank you Sid Meier's! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: adam_sweden
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jan 7, 2006 2:44 pm PT
Review:  I can't write 800 words about Civilization IV, maybe that's because I'm from Sweden, maybe because 
 I don't do anything else than playing it.
  But yet one thing is has to be said about it: - "It's definitely the best game ever made"
  
 
  I must admit that I'm not a Civilization fan, I've played the age of Empires
  games instead but after trying it out I realized it was better than all the age of Empires games 
 and as a matter of fact better than all the other games on the market as well.
  
  It has everything you can possibly hope for, latest graphics, big battles, a very good game play 
 from the beginning to the end and there are also many
  different nations to choose between making it just the perfect game for not only strategy players 
 but for everyone who wants to play the best game.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: zahik
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jan 7, 2006 8:35 am PT
Review:  In first, I was not sure of buying this game because of the title..
  I saw the High marks in reviews, I relized the recommendation in some sites .. I have played CIV2 
 before back in 1998 and it was not bad, but still good .. Then Call to Power which made Me as far 
 as I was able to from CIV3 and its Expansion .. That was in 2002 .. But now in 2005, Every thing 
 is seriously changed from the ground up .. Its a very nice one and have some nice features .. such 
 as some RPG elements .. and the alot-of History information about several Civilization . 
  But all my complaints about this game is, It let me spend 55% of My day life hours on front of 
 my computer .. which is extreamley annoying .. And thrown me a few miles away from my Assignments 
 ..
  Do you Want a (Have just tried it) advise??
  If you want to be having a nice life .. step away from it .. : ) (no kidding) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: davidwwone
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 7, 2006 3:32 am PT
Review:  When I first found out about this game I was so excited a new civilisation game to play but then 
 I was thinking how do you improve an already superb game, so I downloaded the demo (recommended 
 if your thinking of buying this title) and after the 20mins that you get with the game, you realise 
 that everything if new and improved. To the superb graphics with battles being shown to villages 
 and towns all over the map, to the diplomacy window of the game there is so much to do here from 
 trading to war and everything in between. The best thing about this game is that its so easy everyone 
 can pick this game up from veterans of the series to first time buyers if you have a pc and some 
 spare money oh yes and a minimum of a 128mb graphics card then buy this game NOW. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cypherion_X
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jan 7, 2006 3:04 am PT
Review:  Sid Meier and the rest of Firaxis Studios have done a tremendous job on crafting perhaps the finest 
 entry in the Civilzation series to date.
  
  There is no bulky interface that makes managing your empire a cumbersome chore, the graphics and 
 animations provide a fresh level of detail that allows you to view a beautiful world to conquer, 
 the intensity of each game is easily controlled by a set of rules established before hand, allowing 
 every player to tailor a game suitable to his or her skill level allowing for days of civilization 
 building, and finally, the soundtrack is simply amazing, the compilation of pieces craft a mood 
 suitable for each time period the player will progress through.
  
  Honestly, its difficult to find something wrong with this game. So I've been away on break for 
 awhile, now lets get into the Pros and Cons:
  
  Pros:
  Gameplay:
  
  Overall Civilization 4 will yield almost endless amounts of ways to spend time in the game. There 
 are over 15+ empires to choose from whether it be American, Chinese or any of the others available, 
 each with distinct strengths and weaknesses. The ability to set world size, the type of landmasses, 
 ocean level, resource amounts and more allow the player to establish a million different scenarios 
 to play through. In addition, while managing an empire might seem tricky, Firaxis has made it very 
 simple with a clean interface that rarely requires you to leave it for something else. If somehow 
 you manage to conquer every single setting type, there are still several pre-set campaigns available 
 as well . These "campaigns" allow the player to guide a civilization through such historical moments 
 as American Revolution, etc. Ultimately, all the customization equates to a good time for experienced 
 Civilization veterans and beginners alike.
  
  Graphics:
  
  The amount of detail in every unit, tile, and animation speaks volumes for the fine job performed 
 by the people over at Firaxis. Buildings constructed in your cities are easily visible from an 
 overhead view, along with wonders that have been built. This is often a category in turn-based 
 strategy games that receives far less attention than it should, but not in this case. Just keep 
 in mind though, this isn't supposed to be a Doom III or Half-Life 2. The graphics fit the theme 
 of the game, and do so well, so I'm going with a 9/10.
  
  Sound:
  
  What can I say? The soundtrack was incredible, even the menu theme with its tribal rythms is lush 
 and richly done. There are sets of songs designated to play as the player progresses throughout 
 each era, thus helping to establish a certain mood. If for some reason you don't find the built 
 in tunes to you liking, you always have the options in the Audio menu to use an existing music 
 folder for custom soundtracks.
  
  Cons: (No reason to go here with this game, but I have a few irks so to speak...)
  
  Gameplay:
 
  
  While the gameplay is stellar, it still remains difficult to achieve a conquest victory early throughout 
 the game until the advent of gunpowder. Even then, I've encountered the rare destruction of one 
 of my tanks by and archer in a fortified city even after bombardments had commenced. Also, that 
 U. N. peace victory remains elusive, but perhaps one day I will convince them.
  
  Graphics:
  
  Hey, look, I realize its not a Half-life 2, and it probably won't win any graphical 
 awards any day soon, but Civ 4 has the graphics done well in relation to the type of game it is.
 
  
  Sound:
  
  Sure, the sound is awesome. Once again though, I'm sure there will be those who are disgruntled 
 with the built-in soundtrack, so don't forget about those custom music folders.
  
  Overall:
  
  This is a finely crafted game that functions beautifully. It will no doubt be a 
 valuable addition to any strategy gamers library and will devour hours of your time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lasdo
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jan 6, 2006 8:57 pm PT
Review:  I read many reviews before buying this game. Many people who played civ games before were unsatisfied, 
 so I can't recommend it to those people. Otherwise, I believe that anyone else having an interest 
 in strategy games should buy this one or AT LEAST try the demo. The gameplay is really the core 
 of the game, you can build your civilizations really like you want it to be. The AI is also really 
 performant, so on some levels of difficulty, winning can be really REALLY hard, but the AI is cheating, 
 so it can be a bit annoying some times. By the way, if you are looking for a game with exceptional 
 graph, this one is not for it. Otherwise, it's worth it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MikeConn
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jan 6, 2006 8:56 pm PT
Review:  Civilization four was just what I hoped it would be. It had a familiar teach tree, some welcomed 
 combat changes, and some interesting changes in the way a player chooses his/here government type. 
 
  It had a similar tech tree when compared with the previous versions and it had similar units. One 
 thing that bothered me about the previous games was the tremendous difficulty that an aggressive 
 player had waging an offensive war. Even against weaker less advanced civilizations, the defender 
 had far too many advantages. In this version there are still defensive advantages but they can 
 be overcome through the use of artillery, naval vassals and air power. Being a member of the Air 
 Force myself, I was pleased. There is a real reward that a player enjoys when they leap ahead in 
 technology. A player can focus on technology for a large portion of the game then once they become 
 advanced they can successfully scramble to build the most advanced and deadly military in the world.
 
  Another great feature that adds a great deal of depth to the game play is the ability to have 
 multiple forms of government at the same time. This allows a player to have a free market wile 
 at the same time they can have communism. Each civ has its own bonuses and draw backs. A player 
 is really forced to decide what their priorities are when they chose witch civs to adopt. The 
 flexibility of being able to mix and match different types of governments and economic systems 
 adds to the depth and is really a fun new strategic element. 
  Another nice feature is the ability to chose how long to make the game. At the start of the game 
 the player can chose to play a quick 3 hour game or the kind of long drawn out game that takes 
 weeks to finish.
  Over all the game stays true to the features that make it a classic yet it innovates in ways that 
 make it still more enjoyable than its predecessors. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: duduong
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jan 6, 2006 3:52 pm PT
Review:  After the original Civilization game revolutionized the God/Emperor category, each of the first 
 two sequels has improved on its predecesor, but not by nearly the margin by which the latest incarnation 
 has done so now. The innovations are plenty and meaningful, but the biggest achievement in my opinion 
 is that the game gets not just broader and deeper but at the same time faster as well. By faster 
 I mean that it is now possible for a normal working man to finish a full game set in a huge map 
 within a week without unduly depriving himself of other pleasures in life, such as food, sleep, 
 women and occasionally other games. The pacing also gets a lot more even since the boring late-game 
 tedium has been largely eliminated.
  
  The only complaint any reasonable player could possibly make is the speed. The game was a resource 
 hog, particularly for memory. On my brand new high-end machine (AMD 64 X2, 2GB RAM, gForce 7800) , 
 it could still take 20 seconds or more between turns in a late game on a huge map. I don't think 
 the many online descriptions of how this game bogged down to the point of total unplayability on 
 slightly lesser PCs are exaggerations. On the other hand, the recently released v1.52 patch has 
 fixed this problem, so what are you waiting for? Stop reading and order it now! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: EagleScream
Rating: 7.9
Date: Jan 6, 2006 3:26 pm PT
Review:  Civilization 4 is by far the most awesome game of the series but unfortunately it still takes FOREVER 
 to play! The game itself is awesome though with tons of animations and a super intelligent AI who 
 when attacking goes for the kill even on the easier levels. Imagine a game where instead of sending 
 just a few troops the AI send the entire armada to take you out. I seriously had to be doing major 
 strategy thinking in order to deal with the enemy. The problem though is the game is very very 
 time consuming. I am now in year 2203AD with my second game and I have spent over 70 hours (no 
 exaggeration - the game tells me how long I have spent on it) on the game. With other games and 
 real life, though I love the game, I just sold it to EB Games today while it is still worth something 
 cause though it is awesome IT TAKES FAR TO LONG TO PLAY EVEN ONE GAME TO COMPLETION. If you have 
 a ton of time to kill (meaning you are a student of some sort) and you love turn based games than 
 definetly you should pick this game up as it is the best turn based game ever, however if you have 
 to do stuff in real life like work for a living and playing a game over a few months is not how 
 you like to play a game then do NOT get the game unless you want to spend every ounce of spare 
 time you have on the thing (and it still takes you forever to fully complete) .
  
  PS: If anyone from 2k is reading this, if you ever do a civilization 5 please allow simultaneous 
 player movements and allow the settlers to have an option where they build only railroads, or only 
 roads etc.
  
  PPS: Those hating the meticulous aspects of Civ 1, civ 2, and civ 3 should note that Civ 4 cleans 
 up a ton of stuff to make the game a lot faster however it still takes forever to play.
  
  PPPS: Never did try version 1.52 on my GEForce card before returning it and getting an ATI 9550 
 instead however for anyone having problems with GEForce, I strongly suggest going ATI for this 
 game. Those who still have problems with ATI cards need to check more help boards for the record. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hercufles
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jan 5, 2006 9:48 am PT
Review:  Ive played civ since part 1, what i expacialy liked from it it is highly addictive and replayebility,. 
 I played it with my friends lots of time getting better by researching and creating lots of cities. 
 A lot has changed now but the question is does it give me the same feeling s playing in a sandbox 
 and creating your own world and having your own way to conqour the world. 
  
  Graphics: i have to admid i had get used to at the beginning. It looks great that 3d enviroment 
 and everything is alive you even see when your soldiers are fortified or not. Even the sheep are 
 moving i never seen this with this kind of game.
  
  Sound: Well its ok to be honest there are good music but ive heard better.
  
  Gameplay: The 
 most important one and it is great and addictive and yes it like a sandbox you can do whatever 
 you want. What you gonna do whipe the enemy out with armies or by culture there a a lot of ways 
 to whipe put your enemy.
  There is one thing i have to tell for those who never tried this kinda games, it isnt easy the 
 interface is great its not that but you have to grow with it you need to get your own strategy 
 to get it right but it can overwelm sometimes. You need a lot of patience with this one but when 
 you know what you do its great.
  There is even a multiplay option there. There is a lot to do but i reckon you take a lot of time 
 to play cause it can take from 2 hours to a lot . But you can save and play it later so best thing 
 is to play it with a friend. And dont know if there is going to be a patch later but it can be 
 unstable sometimes. It was hard to get a multi play running.
  
  So if you looking for a deep strategy game that gives you a sandbox feeling go get it but if your 
 new with this kind of game or if you arent that patience try it elsewhere cause for those it can 
 be frustrating. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: robpietriche
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jan 4, 2006 10:45 pm PT
Review:  Upon playing civilisation IV for the first time, i was extremely impressed. I had never played 
 any of the previous releases, but from what i had heard, my expectations were high. I was not disappointed. 
 The gameplay was much more addictive and efficient than other real-time strategy games, and the 
 massive variety of options such as technology, resources, diplomacy, construction and growth gave 
 the game endless options and a unique experience each and every time. However, despite this diversity, 
 the game takes a LONG time to learn if you're new to it. 
  
  The graphics are detailed, rich and full, giving the game an interesting and appealing interface, 
 and the audio, music and sound effects are extremely suitable. From the original compositions to 
 the subtle background themes which are specialised for each civilisation, the audio adds to the 
 games overall appeal. Overall, the entire experience was impressive, enjoyable and addictive.
 
  
  Despite the positives, i still could not avoid my substantial share of problems, particularly when 
 dealing with the technical specifications. The game itself was initially unplayable on my laptop 
 due to my apparently 'obsolete' video card. After i looked into the issue, it seemed to me that 
 the only people who could operate the game were those who had the best graphics drivers.
  
  After this problem, i managed to get the game to function on my father's computer, but after a 
 few days of gameplay, the entire game began to slow and falter. My computer's performance completely 
 dropped and i eventually faced freezing and bogged frame rates as i continued playing. Now the 
 game takes twice as long to play, and whenever the cinematic cut scenes for the completion of wonders 
 begin, my computer completely shuts down.
  
  So now i can't play the game until i get my own new computer capable of supporting the games massive 
 specifications.
  
  Overall, the game truly does complement the strategy genre, but until the technical problems are 
 dealt with, the game will still possess its undesireable characteristics. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GameForLife
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jan 4, 2006 7:45 pm PT
Review:  I've played all four Civilizations at length when they each came out. The formula doesn't seem 
 to get old. You want to start a new game to find out the best spot to place a city. Then you want 
 to find the next best spot. Then you want to pound your newly found neighbor into the dust with 
 your armies but you must build first. Then you need more room to expand so you build a navy... 
 and on and on.
  
  While Civ3 did get bogged down in micro management once your civilization grew too large, Civ4 
 lets you enjoy whatever aspects you want while putting other, les desirable management items on 
 auto-pilot (such as city production decisions) .
  
  I have two boys who also enjoy playing Civ4. We talk about strategies and the best starting civilizations 
 and maps. This is a game that spans generations.
  
  You can't miss with this title if you enjoy strategy gaming. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Shine1215
Rating: 4.2
Date: Jan 4, 2006 11:21 am PT
Review:  I would hate to play Civilization 1,2 or 3 based on what should be the best of this series. Maybe 
 ten years ago this was something special but now it is simply old and tired. There is little that 
 I can find positive to say about this game. The game play is the same as all the rest in this area. 
 The graphics are unimpressive visually with a very few exceptions. The combat is worst than boring 
 and the combat system is the worst of all. Tell in what world can 1700 century archers shooting 
 arrows bring down a Apache gunship or destroy a Sherman tank, give me a break.
  
  Where are the combined forces battles operations. For example in Cossacks when combined (grouped) 
 units engage in combat all the units engage at the same time, making a much more impressive visiual 
 display but also rendering far more realistic result. In this game units lineup and individually 
 take there turn to engage. The result is predictable and boring to watch.
  
  While Sid does appear to get away from the Rock, paper, Scissor foundation of resovling combat 
 what he is left with is an even worst system that is so unrealistic as to render the game silly.
 
  
  I wouldn't recommend this game to anyone at a price of $20 let alone the $50+ new retail price 
 tag it comes with. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheHasselhoff
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jan 4, 2006 12:37 am PT
Review:  I have been playing Civilization IV for roughly two weeks now, and have barely scratched the surface 
 of this immersive strategy game. Having not played any of the previous Civilization series, I worried 
 that I would be lost in the thick of a system designed for veteran players, but was pleasantly 
 surprised to find the tutorial mode - while mercifully short - managed to set up the player in 
 a way that allows for a fun first few games. 
  
  It is in the advanced mechanics that Civilization IV truly shines as a game that is easy to learn 
 but difficult to master. Starting on a Duel-sized planet with the 'Continents' map (one of several 
 that have become the stock-in-trade of games from Age of Empires to Empire Earth) , at the simplest 
 level of difficulty, "Settler," I found the game thoroughly enjoyable and full of open-ended decisions 
 that make every game absolutely unique. 
  
  The complexity of the technology tree in deciding what kind of civilization you want to become 
 is also impressive, as it requires they player to sit and develop a strategy that is effective 
 for the purpose of play. Sinking dozens of early-game turns into exploring and founding the various 
 religions in the game was a fatal mistake when the civilization next to me - Genghis Khan - was 
 ramping up the military tree to march through my cultural borders in a brazen act of war that decimated 
 my economy.
  
  The competing methods of play involved in any game of Civilization make it a game that can be played, 
 saved and reloaded over many sittings. War is not a necessity to win - cultural or diplomatic victories 
 can be just as sweet as demolishing Queen Victoria and laying waste to London and York. This fact 
 alone means that those who have sought to create burgeoning cultural and trade empires in games 
 like Empire Earth finally have an excellent outlet to exercise their dreams of a world filled with 
 culture and commerce.
  
  I highly recommend Civilization IV to anyone who has played the Age of Empires, Empire Earth or 
 Command and Conquer series, as well as players just getting involved in RTS games. Civilization 
 has something for everyone, from the casual day-gamer to the all-night, Jolt-and-Cheetos fueled 
 endurance race of Marathon mode. The only roadblock is deciding who out of the plethora of world 
 leaders to play as! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Desperados11
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jan 3, 2006 8:34 pm PT
Review:  This game is truly a part of the civilization series. It hasn't forgotten anything from the other 
 games in the series and it comes up with some new intriguing twists to the old Civ gameplay. This 
 game is superb because I find that it's always amusing when u see what would've happened if the 
 French did that and the English did that. It's like ur playing alternate histories of the world's 
 greatest civilizations. The AI is just right and the graphics are pretty good. Overall this is 
 the best Civ game in the series since it perfectly uses the old formula and it expands on that. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: halofreak3487
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jan 5, 2006 7:22 pm PT
Review:  Now if you read my other reviews it's all about FPS games, well it's gonna change cuz Civilization 
 4 is a great game the graphics are great don't need to upgrade and the sound is amazing as well 
 for example for every technology that has been reaserched a guy will say a quote that goes with 
 the tech. Different languages/accents about 18 civs to choose from.
  
  Also the game has lasting appeal because whats a strategy game without multi-player gotta friend 
 at your house play hot-seat, or over the internet, or by email (which i'm not sure how that quite 
 works) . and people are saying that well Civ games take forever you can never finish... well thats 
 all changed now you can SAVE YOUR GAME and return any time you want... now that just revolutionized 
 online gaming for RTS games. 
  
  It also has scenarios and stuff like from World War 2 and stuff like that. You can script with 
 python and XML to change what ever you want to what ever you want. Getting an update is just simpily 
 clicking the button and let it download.
  
  I'm just hoping in the expansion pack they have something new because i know Civ 4 will EVENTUALLY 
 get boring but with a difficult like Diety in about 20 turns your dead. so RTS fans this is a MUST 
 have PC game of the year from Gamespot and some other sites.
  
  One downside to this game is that they don't have a Campagien mode that would've made me give it 
 a 10.0 probably. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Warp_2567
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 3, 2006 5:15 pm PT
Review:  One of the most anticipated PC games is back to rewrite history again, and it's more rejuvenated 
 than ever before. 
  
  Improvements:
  
  - New RTS-like camera angles 
  
  - Siege units can now attack other units and defend cities
  
  - More deals at the negotiating 
 table such as converting to a religion or offering a Cease Fire
  
  - Discovering different religions to make your citizens happier, and choosing a state religion.
 
  
  
  Biggest additions to the series:
  
  - Discovering different religions to make your citizens happier
  
  - choosing a state religion
 
  
  - New units such as Axemen and Macemen
  
  - Adopting statehoods to make your people either happier or more angry
  
  Gameplay- Same addicting 
 game formula from Civ 3. Units are divided into 3's and the camera zooms into the battles to make 
 it feel more intense.
  
  Graphics- Perfected into the game. Not too gritty and jaggy, and not too fancy and flashy. The 
 visuals and effects fit great into this masterpiece.
  
  Sound- Authentic jungle, coastal, and forest sounds. The narrator quotes amazing lines from famous 
 people throughout history once you have discovered a technology.
  
  Value- Single player campaign lasts for about 4 hours. Online matches and Network Area matches 
 are implemented into the game, making the value for this game almost infinite.
  
  Tilt- Civ 4 gets more addicting the more you play it. It provides a very good challenge once you 
 up the difficulty by one notch.
  
  If someone were to ask you what is the greatest TBS game ever created, Civilization 4 should pop 
 into your mind. There is no doubt that this fourth installment to the series will forever be remembered 
 as an instant classic.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: kinukai
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jan 3, 2006 1:26 pm PT
Review:  The first Civ games left me salivating for this new version... Its definitely everything I (and 
 im guessing alot of other fans) have been waiting for. Games like this dont come out everyday, 
 (and rightly so) If you've never played, heard of seen this game, give it a try. Its the most fun 
 i've had being fed a history/economics lesson, i'll say that much. And i'll even go as far as saying 
 this game taught me more about monarchies, ancient economics, and land development than the 4 years 
 i wasted on Highschool. If that doesnt sell it for you, then go ahead and skip this game. Chances 
 are tho, you'll hear about it from your friends, brothers and office buddies... maybe not today, 
 but soon. Before you know it, Civ 5 will be out you'll still be wondering what took you so long 
 to get this game when it first came out. Sid, you rock. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dmarle
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jan 3, 2006 7:32 am PT
Review:  Since I did not play CIV3, it took a while to figure all the new features out. But it is definitely 
 as addictive as ever before due to the lush graphics and the ability to configure the way you play. 
 It's nice to be able to tell certain units to automatically do all the little things that need 
 to be tended to like building roads. Big plus. Let's me just focus on the rest of the game.
  Definitely a great buy. Only one complaint. I've had some crash problems even with the new update. 
 I have no idea if it is the game or my computer. Probably both. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RoboPig555
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jan 2, 2006 8:32 pm PT
Review:  if you're computer is OK then this game is pretty darn cool. buy it! buy it i say!
  the new civics are totally amazing. you have five aspects to run the government! you could have 
 representation and state property, making a democratic communist government or a an atheist theocracy 
 or maybe a slave society run by barbarians. UN resolutions are awesome too! take it from a civ 
 2+3 fan, great game! Religion is pretty amazing as well. with different ways to shape each faith. 
 imagine an indivualistic christianity, or a missionary like judaisim? the graphics are pretty, 
 but unneccessary though. otherwise great! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: barkera0
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 24, 2007 1:55 am PT
Review:  Intro: Civilization IV (Civ 4) is one of the most refreshing and best strategy games I have evry 
 played. You play in different games and each of them will last many days, depending on the level 
 of difficulty. Maps are fully customizable so each match is different!
  
  Graphics 8/10:
  The graphics get the job done, and everything is easily distingishable, but they're not nearly 
 perfect. All the units (people) you control all look great and very similiar to their real-life 
 counter-parts. Weapons all look good too, with the exception of arrows which really don't look 
 very good at all, not really much of a problem though, i'm just picky. Scenery is fantastic, it 
 really draws you into the environment nad its a great experience.
  
  Gameplay 7/10:
  Civ 4 is not your average strategy game, i'll describe a game from beginning to end (vaguely, if 
 I did it detailed it would take hundreds of pages!) . When you begin a new game you get to pick 
 the difficulty, how many civilizations are in youw rodl, what your world looks like, which real-life 
 empire you play as, the sea level and more! Once the game has begun you start off with a settler 
 and another basic unit. Using your settler you can set up your first city, which will be your captial. 
 You then must build up a civilization around you using very bsic tools as the game starts in 4000BC.
 
  As the game advances you will get access to better technology and things will start to become 
 more modern. At the beginning you get warriors with blubs and by the end you get Bombers, Machine 
 Gun, Radio Towers and thousand more things!
  You must also get along, or destory, with other civilizations. Some will befriendly towards you 
 and you will co-exist peacefully, while others will be aggresive and go to war with you. You can 
 make trade with other civilizations adn descisons you make can make another leader hate you or 
 love you. Civ 4 is a turn based game and you can use a unit once per turn. However, even if you 
 had 100+ units you can still move all of them in just one turn. At the end of a turn, press the 
 button, time advances, early on in the game time will go forward by up to 40 years! But by the 
 end, each turn will only be 1 year at a time. There are 6 differnt ways to win Civ 4 such as, defeating 
 all other civilizations, controlling the majority of world mass and population, having the highest 
 score if time runs out and thats just the easiest few.
  You can also play a multiplayer mpode over the net, email or LAN with your friends or others you 
 haven't met, however the main focus of the game is on 1 player mode.
  
  Sound 8/10:
  Nothing amazing here, but once again it gets the job done. Backgrouns music is soft and soothing 
 (generally) , but suits the environment very well. Aound effects are great soldiers getting attacked, 
 mocvement and sailing all have some top sound effects to them.
  
  Replay Value 9/10:
  You won't get sick of the game for a very long time as I said before each time you play it is fully 
 customizable and each time will be different, the sky is the limit! Also, there is a hall of fame 
 in which your greatest exploits are recorded and you can keep trying to improve there. Even after 
 all that you could go online and have the greatest challenge against other players.
  
  Overall 7.9/10:
  Civ 4 is a fantastic strategy game that will keep you interested for a very 
 long time. It has been very well put together and there are virtually no faults to it. Even if 
 you only have a vague interst in strategy games you at the very least need to rent it out, i; m 
 sure you'd end up buying it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FFfReAk320
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jan 2, 2006 1:52 pm PT
Review:  This was my first time playing a Civilization game. It was also my first time playing a Sid Meier 
 game. Wow, I suck.
  
  Civilization IV is the most creative, innovative, and downright fun RTS I've ever played. Not that 
 other games don't come close. I loved Rome: Total War and Warcraft III, but Civ IV takes the cake. 
 If you're like me and have never played a Civ game, read on.
  
  Essentially, in Civ IV, you play God with a civilization of your choosing on a planet with a climate 
 and landscape of your choosing. You mold your society however you like, wage war, preserve peace, 
 and race other societies to become the most advanced and powerful on the planet. I won't pretend 
 the game is simple to learn. The tutorial was so long and comprehensive that I almost gave up. 
 However, after you play through the tutorial game, the rest becomes a matter of personal strategy. 
 If you want to learn more about the details of the game, read the official review. This review 
 is supposed to be just my opinion.
  
  Graphically, I was not wowed by Civilization IV. Then again, RTSes aren't exactly known for fantastic 
 visuals, but instead for their engaging gameplay. Civ IV had me playing until 4 AM with no interest 
 in looking at the clock on my first night, and it's been hard to get away from my computer since 
 then. While it took me a very long time to get the hang of the intricacies of the game and develop 
 a strategy, I was soon conquering the world again and again. 
  
  The sound effects and music were nice, and having Leonard Nimoy read the quotes was a nice touch 
 (especially for Trekkies like me) but kind of got annoying the third or fourth time through. I 
 don't really have too much more to say, other than that I'm off to go play another round of Civilization 
 IV.
  
  Go buy this game now. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tekkenfreak
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 2, 2006 10:49 am PT
Review:  before civ 4 ive only played civ3. civ4 definately has its nice points and bad ones. 
  for one, i dont know why but i like civ3's graphics better than civ4's. and in the beginng of the 
 single player there's that whole the 'earth was created thing' which i found irritating. really 
 set me off. i loved the music in civ 3and civ4 was a letdown. 
  on the other hand, the battle thing has improved, i like the promotion thing. i also enjoy the fact 
 that the characters of diff factions can talk in their own mother tounge. adds a feeling. the 'qoute' 
 after u find a technology is nice. sound is ok. the missionary thing which is new is enjoyable. the 
 fact that u can zoom out and scan the world is enjoyable too. 
  all in all good game. can be considered slightly better than the last one though some things should 
 not have been touched 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nodham
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jan 2, 2006 8:17 am PT
Review:  Some of us have been playing Civilization since part 2. Some perhaps since part 1, but I bet most 
 of us skipped that one. Likewise, there are probably some people that are using Civ IV as their 
 first foray into epic turn based strategy. If so, there has never been a better time to get lost 
 in history. 
  
  Civ IV is basically an update to Civ III, which is an 'update' to Alpha Centauri, which is a sequel 
 to CIv II, etc. (Call to Power I and II are also somewhere in there, but they're not worth mentioning. 
 Oops, I did.) As you can see, this game has been a long time in the making, with each new version 
 adding something and improving something else, like cultural borders, civilizations having different 
 strengths/weaknesses, religions, civics and so on. All this makes Civ IV a fascinating game, because 
 while the basic gameplay remains the same, there are interesting changes in the way you can govern 
 your people and even which belief you'll choose (if any) as your state religion. In Civ 3 you could 
 sit quite happily next to a pc civilization, only to have them suddenly declare war and become 
 'furious'. What? I'm the furious one here! In Civ 4 leaders now feature + and - points that tell 
 you if they're angry and why. It's another helpful touch. 
  There are now civic combinations available instead of the all-encompassing governments of previous 
 versions. The combinations are plentiful and you can switch depending on your current strategy. 
 So you want communism with free speech and a theocracy to boot? The choice is yours. 
  The graphics are comparable to the changes between Warcraft 2 and 3 - your world now features animated 
 3D units that do battle and health is visible in the amount of soldiers left in your unit. You 
 can even zoom in or out to the level from which you want to view the battlefield, even an outer 
 space zoom that shows you the whole globe and its cities. Brilliant stuff, but it all this comes 
 at a price and my slower laptop had me waiting 2-4 minutes at times between turns. It may have 
 been more or less, I was sleepy as it was early in the morning. Yes, this Civilization is just 
 as addictive as the rest of them. However, my other PC runs the game fine, but it's still strange 
 to have to use a system suited to FPS games to run a turn-based strategy. 
  
  Bottom line? If you enjoyed other Civ games, there's no reason to hesitate. And if you've never 
 played a Civ game? Ditto. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 353535355353535
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jan 2, 2006 8:06 am PT
Review:  seriously, this is the best game ive played since, well, ever!
  Don't forget, you're talking to a huge fan of the civilization franchise, but, just about everything 
 has been improved from it's predecessor, Civilization 3.
  
  The 3D engine has been a huge improvement over the old, lifeless 2D maps of its predecessor. As 
 gamespot said, the combat system has been tweaked to make way more sense. Now, stone age spearmen, 
 or even warriors, the most basic unit will never beat a modern tank. Instead of offense points, 
 and defense points, now it's just a relative strength rating.
  
  The civics system has been a major improvement. In the latest Civ3 expansion pack, Civilization 
 3 conquests, there were only seven government types, even though they made a lot of sense, there 
 was always a need for more. So, they introduced the civics system. If you do the math, there are 
 theoretically 3,125 different governments. This is great news who found one great government in 
 civ3, but there were one, or two features that they just despised.
  
  There are too many changes for me to mention, but, overall, it's definitely a superb game.
  
 
  My last point is, if you are already a fan of the Civilization franchise, the only excuse you 
 have for not getting this game is that you're saving up for something special like say, an XBOX 
 360 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MAD1993
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jan 2, 2006 5:17 am PT
Review:  The best damn game I've ever played! 
  Takes a little time to learn how to play but worth the trouble in the end. Graphics are very acceptional 
 but some small adjustments could be made.
  Lots of nations and leaders to choose from, though you should be able to download new skins or 
 nations, some that are a little more inspiring. 
  "One more turn", is a scentence you will get very familiar with!
  I would recommend this game 
 to everyone because it can so easily grip a person and get him hooked.
  Say goodbye to daylight, make yourself comfortable and play all day!
  You have to experience 
 it to understand it's value!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: mentat76
Rating: 4.6
Date: May 30, 2007 12:05 pm PT
Review:  When i was a kid, there was the -one and only- civilization . It was the real masterpiece. I have 
 played that one continuously, again and again for hours, days, months...
  
  Then there came the 2nd Civ. We were amazed by the things improved, graphics, balance of gameplay, 
 ai, that was my favorite game ever. I still have that game in my archive. It is still an never 
 ending love for me.
  
  Later on, I have also played the activision version of the civilization (call to power 1 &amp; 
 2) they were also good, especially i was amazed by the combat system. You could built an army of 
 9 units and there was an animated battle screen which you can watch your army fight. That increased 
 the value of the game incredibly (since half of the game is aggression and combat)
  
  Than Sid was on the run and released the 3rd in series, it was hmmm... ok. Very well trading, (some 
 resources you had to trade from the opponents - this made your opponents more than a nation to 
 conquer ) That was a major improvement in civ series. However i was terribly disappointed when 
 i realized combats were still in the same way civ1 does. Units attack one by one. It was increadibly 
 demoralizing issue for me because i was very addicted to the battle screens of call to power . 
 I just asked for my self: what an increadible game it would be, if and only if this combat system 
 was like call to power's... 
  
  Now in Civ 4 i see that nothing has changed but the graphics. And combat system is still the same. 
 Graphics are impressive, however -let me remind you -, no true TURN BASED game fans will buy its 
 3D graphics. I tried to find some improvements about Civ 4 myself, But what i saw was;
  Goverment forms are a little different, say editable (a bit like Europa Universalis ) options, 
 Culture &amp; influence range are nice features, Religion factor is added, tiny changes in tech 
 tree, units have selectable features....
  
  But all these are just not enough to make it an INNOVATIVE nor REVOLUTIONARY game as its name represents... 
 Bad AI, primitive combat system, Technology breakthroughs are happening too fast and dull, somehow 
 unexciting, wonder animations doesnt give you the feeling you have completed something big . More 
 over, their benefits often dont worth the production. Worse of all repetetive and boring gameplay 
 plagues this game in the 2nd - 3rd hour of play.
  
  I expected some improvements from this game, but i see now i asked too much from Sid.
  
  Civilization 
 name is going down, becoming worse by every new civ. series. And this is for you people: you are 
 overrating this product, it is neither the best in series nor a master piece. Gamespot gave this 
 product 9.4 and has fooled me and many people unnecessarily.... It was an INNOVATIVE game once 
 ... Pity.. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NukesAreFun
Rating: 5.1
Date: Jan 1, 2006 11:29 pm PT
Review:  So Civ IV has a repeat of Civ 3's "culture" feature -- which SMAC (Sid Meier's Alpha Centauri) 
 lacked -- and now some well-developed cities can produce a "great person" (but SMAC even has a 
 rough equivalent for this: the "golden age" bonus) . SMAC also lacked the "open borders" option.
 
  
  But SMAC has MORE (i. e. better) "custom world" choices before you start each game, and Brian Reynolds 
 incorporated that (and most of Civ IV's other features) into smac SIX YEARS ago. Hasn't anyone 
 innovated Civ since Brian Reynolds lent his hand to Civ 2 (and then to SMAC) , which was a GREAT 
 improvement over the original Civilization??
  
  Aside from the above, most of the game-play the same, and I was SHOCKED to read Gamespot's reviewer 
 fawning over the "new and improved" features (improved over Civ 3, I take it) , when I've been playing 
 SMAC for YEARS with these "new and improved" features.
  
  Of course SMAC has a different setting (although SMAC fans have even made a free downloadable "Earth" 
 map for SMAC) , tech-tree, different "wonders" as "special projects," etc., but why would I pay 
 $50 when I already have essentially the same game, and why would anyone new to the Civ series pay 
 $50 when they can buy SMAC for $5 or $10? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jmartin169
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jan 1, 2006 10:59 pm PT
Review:  Those not familiar with the CIV games, I'll have to note these are turn based, so it's like playing 
 a juiced up board game. Tons of fun if you're into empire building.
  
  Pros:
  Includes nearly all of the concepts and gameplay of it's predecessors (ie, building cities, researching 
 technologies, advancing from the dark ages to the near future) . The addition of making specialized 
 cities, instead of the usual build a mega city with every building possible, was a nice change. 
 Excellent replayablitiy, can be played many times without feeling too repetitive. And the diplomatic 
 aspect of the game is improved, so you can feel like you are actually creating allies or enemies 
 overtime.
  
  Cons:
  Still missing terraforming from the original game. Aircraft can't wipe out land targets, just damage 
 them. Ships cannot attack land units. Nuclear weapons are not very powerful. 
  
  And a spearmen killed my modern armor, AGH! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spenta
Rating: 7.7
Date: Jan 1, 2006 8:52 pm PT
Review:  I put off buying this game because from the screen shots it didn't really look much different from 
 Civ 3. Sure the graphics are updated but after countless hours on C3 I wanted more substance before 
 dropping $50 on a game. However I continued to read review after review giving this game great 
 comments, including plenty of people suggesting that even if you've played the previous incarnations 
 before this one was different enough to keep you interested.
  
  Well I'm here to say that they are wrong. Other then updated graphics, better sound & music this 
 game is all but a mirror of Civ 3.
  
  I can give them some credit for actually removing some of the minor negative aspects from C3 but 
 thats about it. After the first hour or so I was quickly dissappointed and was eager to talk to 
 some of the people who had written all those reviews I had read.
  
  Bottom line on this game is this:
  
  If you have never played Civ 3 2 1 then this game will 
 suck you in and give you many many hours of enjoyment. However if you are returning to the series 
 looking for something new then be sure to wait until you can get this used for $20. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: andrewdenis
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jan 1, 2006 8:25 am PT
Review:  At first, the game was sluggish. The graphics are so intense it puts alot of strain on computer 
 resources. Once you download all of the patches everything clears up and you can get down to hours 
 upon hours of playing. Been up way too late playing this game. If you've played all the other Civ 
 games, this is a definite must buy. If not, you should at least try the 100 turn demo and see if 
 you like. Make sure you have atleast 512mb for memory and a decent graphics card with no less than 
 128mb for itself. it'll eat up computers with integrated graphics, it did my wifes... :-P 
::::::

::::::
UserName: derobins
Rating: 1
Date: Dec 31, 2005 4:41 am PT
Review:  Civilization IV would get a decent score if it were possible to play a complete game. Unfortunately, 
 even with the v1.52 patch, the game is so bug-ridden that I finally had to uninstall it.
  
  Do not buy this game! Especially if you have a laptop or an integrated Intel video card. Many people 
 are either unable to load the game at all or have the map show up as entirely black. I can play 
 the game (GeForce 4 Ti) but only for a few hours before the game becomes so crash-prone that I 
 have to give up. It's so bad that tomorrow I'm going to send a letter to my state's consumer protection 
 department.
  
  And don' t think that you can get away with throwing hardware at the problem or maybe just turn 
 the graphics level down, 'cause insufficient hardware isn't the issue. From what I've gathered 
 off the message boards, it looks like Firaxis wrote some sort of custom graphics engine that is 
 (1) extremely inefficient, (2) has massive memory leaks and (3) was not adequately tested on a 
 wide variety of video hardware.
  
  Aside from the stupidity of writing a custom 3-D engine for a game that really doesn't benefit 
 from such eye candy, the game is ok. The best changes to the game are that the worker AI is vastly 
 improved and trade routes are all managed for you. The scale of the maps continues the Civ III 
 trend of feeling smaller than Civ I or II, but that could be due to the limits of the 3-D engine. 
 The religions are a nice touch but don't seem to have much impact on gameplay.
  
  The audio is wonderful and is conveniently stored in mp3 format on the hard drive so you can make 
 your own soundtrack CD. There's around 500 MB (~6 hours or so) and all of it is very high quality. 
 Leonard Nimoy's voice is also well done although you'll probably get sick of him after a while.
 
  
  The user interface is pretty but violates many UI conventions so it's fairly annoying to use in 
 practice. Check out the "next" and "back" buttons on the initial menus - what are they doing at 
 the bottom of the screen? The 3-D graphics are also pretty but detract from the game. In many cases, 
 it's difficult to tell the units apart, unless you are closely zoomed in. Speaking of which, zooming 
 is very annoying in this game. It's cool to zoom in and check stuff out for maybe five minutes, 
 but what you really need in a Civ-type game is INFORMATION, not "artsy" features like adding clouds 
 and wrapping the map around a globe when you are zoomed out.
  
  In summary, I'd recommend giving this game a pass until they come out with the inevitable expansion 
 pack. By that time, most of the bugs will (hopefully) have been worked out. Until then, stay away. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FlashMagic91
Rating: 9.3
Date: Dec 31, 2005 4:11 am PT
Review:  Civilization 4 is a very addictive game once u have learnt the controls and know wat ur doing. 
 Graphics are amazing and so are the sounds and music. Gameplay is is very in depth and simple. When 
 ur citizens become unhappy u build them buildings which make them happy when their unwell u build 
 them buildings which make them healthy.
  One problem i do have with the game is when you get into combat its not very indepth apart from 
 upgrading ur units. Even when ur overwhelming the enemy and u think u wil win u end up losing and 
 getting frustrated. Still though some good combat and gameplay. Many different units and 18 civs 
 to choose from.
  There isnt really a singleplayer but u can paly the computer and do scenarois which are still very 
 fun.
  Multiplayer is fun once ur ina game but it is hard to actually to joni and play a game with others. 
 Overall a good game if u spend time playing!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Blueleader137
Rating: 9.6
Date: Dec 30, 2005 7:56 am PT
Review:  I started playing the Civ series with Activision's Call to Power, then Call to Power 2 (which was 
 a cool game) , then Civ 3, and finally Civ 4. I can tell you that Civ 4 is the best one to date. 
 I like a lot of things in Civ 4 such as the civics feature, new units such as the gunship (yeah 
 like an Apache, not a boat) , the inclusion of religion, the revised diplomacy and AI, and the altered 
 tech tree.
  
  First of all the in-game music is awesome and the graphics are much improved. It was far time they 
 made the 3D leap. The civics are a neat feature of the game, and allow you to build your own form 
 of government which is neat. There are some new units which are really cool, such as the gunship. 
 The gunship is a armored helicopter unit which rips apart enemy infantry and tanks. If you have 
 these in your battles they will make all the difference due to their ability to fly behind enemy 
 lines and engage unprotected units and cities. Although I wish they would have made more units 
 in the game, such as the old AEGIS cruiser, regular cruiser, stealth fighter, modern bomber (between 
 prop bomber and stealth bomber) , nuclear submarine. Also in my personal opinion they should have 
 the let the bombers carry nuclear bombs (not ICBMs but nuclear bombs) , and they should bring back 
 the old ICBM targeting system from Call to Power 2 which enabled a player to target their nukes 
 at an enemies cities, and if that player nuked them then the targeted nukes would launch. Speaking 
 of nukes, the ICBMs in the game are almost useless against a city's population if that city has 
 bomb shelters. The bomb shelters protect 75% of the city's pop and they should only protect about 
 25% and key military instillations. Unstead of shielding the bank and the supermarket shield the 
 barracks and the palace.
  
  Religion is a new feature in the game and is quite neat. It has been said that it is useless, but 
 you can use it too your advantage in production and money.
  
  Tech tree is revised and allows players to move on without researching all tech, but I do wish 
 they would have put more tech in the industrial and modern ages. (and while they are at it more 
 modern buildings too)
  
  The AI is great single player is like multiplayer, and its acually like the computer has an IQ 
 over 100. Plus they are more honorable in their agreements.
  
  Overall, the game is great. Dismiss my remarks about what should have been added because they are 
 minor compared to the great things about this game, and I'm sure the expansion packs and patches 
 to this game will address about 75% of my complaints. If you don't have this game go get it and 
 if you do you aren't reading this but probably attacking Rome. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bairemuth
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 30, 2005 2:53 am PT
Review:  find this quite hilarious... People complain because a swordsman kills a tank. Why is this funny?? 
 These are the same people that complain that the game is not a strategy game like Warcraft. Well 
 let me tell you something, how is it that a swordsman can kill a building like in Warcraft?? yeah 
 so enough of that bull crap.
  
  First off, I would like to warn people that this game is NOT Starcraft, Warcraft, Age of Empires, 
 or anything like that. Those are all great games, and Civ4 is also great, but they are not to be 
 compared because they are totally different.. They are both STRATEGY games, but this is TURN based, 
 if you think this is too boring for you, then don't buy the game and quit your **** This is the 
 main reason I am writting this (to put an end to people's stupidity) . Also, I just read a review 
 where someone was complaining that any civilization could build any wonder. This person claimed 
 that this made the game not fun because it wasn't true to history. One word. WOW. This game is 
 all about rewritting history, did Inca take over the world by the year 1990?? NO, but that's the 
 joy of this game, you can do what you want, and anything in history can be rewritten with civ4. 
 Anyways, enough with addressing these complaints.
  
  My Review:
  
  Pros:
  -The best turn-based strategy game ever created that is near impossible to stop playing.
  -Challenging 
 AI (get the **** off of noble if you think it's easy, and quit your ****
  -Excellent multiplayer. This was thought of as impossible to do, but now game lengths can be set 
 to make a quick game. This is only a feature, so no bitching about the game being too short because 
 you can set it on marathon where it will take you a year to finish it.
  -Great Replay value. Playing this game really never gets old, and plus this is the fourth civilization 
 and i'm still loving it, no complaints here.
  -Nothing more fun than backstabbing all your friends and taking the world for your own lust of 
 power. Screw everyone else.
  -Good in small doses and even better in an all night marathon. Playing this game doesn't require 
 a great deal of time, but a great deal of time can be spent for all the entertainment you need.
 
  
  Cons:
  -Rocky launch, but recent patch has fixed all bugs with ATI vid cards and such.
  -We've all heard 
 the story, archer beats tank, blah blah, but oh well, there isn't much of a way around it, and 
 I really like the combat system already implemented, no real need to change, just a minor complaint.
 
  -Causes sleepiness the next day when getting up for work is required. (my worst complaint)
  
  Final Thoughts:
  I got this game along with "The Movies". Well... I havn't played that game 
 yet, so maybe in a few months I will come around to writting a review for it, too. Great game for 
 those in love with a true strategy game.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gruug
Rating: 9.8
Date: Dec 29, 2005 10:53 pm PT
Review:  I would have to rated this as one of the top games of 2005. I have played Civ games since back 
 when Sid was with Microprose. Loved that first version. Of all the sequels since, this one has 
 to be the best. It has everything right out of the box... deep turn based strategy; very functional 
 interface; multi-player... its all here! Only reason I did not give it a 10 was a very few graphical 
 glitches that I encountered. Nothing game stopping just noticeable. For example, during combat 
 I had a couple of my units disappear only to reappear after wiping out the enemy unit.
  
  One thing I really liked was the touch of having Leonard Nimoy do the narration. There is one sequence 
 that made me think he was introducing a new episode of Star Trek. Pretty nifty! 
  
  For those that don't like to use their brain to think when playing a game there is no need to try 
 this one. BUT, if you pass it up you would really be missing something special. Overall, a great 
 and potentially classic game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Atlas120
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 29, 2005 10:28 pm PT
Review:  This game is great.. The stragety is good, there are almsot no bugs, the graphics are good, and 
 the gameplay just makes you not want to stop... It's just way too good.. The music is great as 
 well.. Nothing like tribal drums and chanting. Plus the online paly is great. With simultanious 
 turns you never know where your opponent may be going... 
  
  This game is alittle hard to figure out at the beginning but once you get into it you will find 
 the best way to make your settlements happy, the best place to place settlements, and the best 
 way to promote units. 
  
  Be warned about the mass barbarian attacks though... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: masterchief_123
Rating: 5
Date: Dec 29, 2005 1:36 pm PT
Review:  I got this game and to tell you the truth it isnt as good as a lot of people are saying it is. 
 It's not addicting, i played it for 15 minutes and then played a different game. it's not worth 
 the $50, if you can get it cheap then maybe buy but not if it is full price. just don't get the 
 game, i would recomend the movies or black and white 2 because they will not be disapointing. I 
 also would like to say that the tutoriel isnt even very good it barely helps you with the game. 
 You can also skim through the game with out even carring what you clicked. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kocur
Rating: 6.7
Date: Dec 29, 2005 1:31 pm PT
Review:  I've been an old fan of the civ-series and playing it since 1991. The first game was simply stunning, 
 the second great, the third terrible and the forth..., well, it was at least satisfactory, because 
 I had no expectations anymore. Civilization 4 is definitely not a bad game, but it could be much 
 better.
  
  I have to admit, the new graphics is really good, the map of your own country is awesome, the look 
 of your cities is unique, you always know where you are and remember your terrain. The city management 
 is also superb, you have to pick your location carefully and individually take care of each of 
 your cities. The tech-tree is not extremely revolutionary, though, but it is solid, the unit types 
 remained nearly the same. So far so good. The fun for me was great, but it ended here and the gameplay 
 become quite soon routine without any significant challenges (forget the UN or the space ship) .
 
  
  Here I would like to list some of the major flaws which spoil the game and some of them are as 
 old as the series itself.
  
  - A swordsman beats a tank. I suppose, this is the most annoying shortcomming, haunting through 
 the whole series. And the programmers were unable to deal with it. Shame on you Sid Meier!
  
  - The whole combat system ist poor, outdated and based on standards anno 1991. As I remember, 
 there were thousands requests from old civ-players on the webpages of Firaxis and Civ3 pleading 
 for changing the combat system based on "one toy soldier versus another toy soldier". Nothing happened. 
 Instead of you have weird giant figures trampling on the map like Gulliver in the land of the Lilliputs 
 without any feeling of strategic or tactical conquest. This could be an option for 10-years boys 
 but not for gamers who since 1991 played lots of strategy games with sophisticated combat system. 
 Also the scale of the units is chaotic, it looks odd when a galeon is bigger than a destroyer.
 
  
  - No sense for reality: This is a paradox, because Civ 4 is a game which proclaims to introduce 
 the players into the history of the mankind but on the other side it produces many extreme absurdities. 
 How the hell it is possible that the Mongols can build the Statue of Liberty, the Indians Versailles, 
 the Greeks Taj Mahal or Americans Pyramids??? Why can everyone produce the typical English longbowmen 
 or the typical Greek Phalanx? Why are all tanks (except German) of the same Sherman type? Or how 
 can, for example, just Germans or Arabs convert to judaism? Is this all some kind of political 
 correctness or simply stupidity? Like already mentioned by readers before, the sense for reality 
 in Civ 4 is a catastrophe.
  
  - Unitarism and stereotype: The whole game suffers extremely in its replay value, because there 
 are no real differences between the nations. Everyone can build everything, the advantages of the 
 leaders (Bismarck, Ghandi, Elisabeth etc.) are too marginal, the only difference is one ridiculous 
 'special' unit. There are even no differences in the building style anymore. The AI offers more 
 possibilities indeed and shows various types of behaviour, but it is good only for trade, unrealiable 
 as an ally. The same for an opponent - unable to act challenging, only placing its cities at most 
 impossible squares (ice, tundra, dessert) near your borders.
  
  In summary: The great and only advantage of the game is its very good ballanced city building management 
 and a appealing interface, but for standards of 2005 it is simply obsolete. All in all is Civilization 
 4 a wild and chaotic mixture of the taste of sugar, salt, chocholate, roast beef, sushi and spaghetti 
 in one. This taste may be interesting for a while, but it makes you quickly saturated. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: serpent02
Rating: 4.6
Date: Dec 29, 2005 7:53 am PT
Review:  THIS IS NOT A STRADEGY GAME. Starcraft, Warcraft, and Age of Empires are stradegy games. This game 
 wasn't anything like what you would think of when you think of stradegy because the turn-based 
 system makes it suck. If your looking for a good stradegy game like starcraft, warcraft or even 
 age of empires, this isn't it. On the front of this game in big letters should be TURN-BASED STRADEGY 
 GAME (BEWARE) . This is not a game that I would reccomend to anyone looking for a true stradegy 
 game. The turn-based stuff makes the whole game feel slow and boring. It takes so long to move 
 a unit from one place to another and the battles... i won't even go there... just another addition 
 to the boring and slow gameplay. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: czarns69
Rating: 9.2
Date: Dec 29, 2005 7:36 am PT
Review:  On December 28th, 2005, I installed Civ4 onto my PC at 7PM. I started a game around 7:10PM. Having 
 forgotten about dinner, I turned around to notice the time was 2AM. On the brink of divorce, I 
 realized it was time to go to bed, though there was still an urge to just go one more turn to smite 
 those stinking Aztecs and to gain cultural take over of two more cities. This game is everything 
 it has always been, but now adds some flavor with enhanced graphics and sounds. The value of this 
 game is incredible. For about $50, you can get countless hours of gameplay. You could potentially 
 play this until Civilization 5 comes up. Very much like I have done with Civ2, then Civ3. Good 
 Luck. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Drew2460
Rating: 4.5
Date: Dec 29, 2005 7:09 am PT
Review:  This is my first time playing this game. I've played other sim games, but this one made me the 
 most angry. As mentioned above, how can a tank be injured by swords, maces or muskets. 
  
  I've played the game several times now and just can't seem to get the logic behind that. On just 
 about every other level, it seems to work. But, it all goes for not, when your combat units don't 
 seem to hold any weight. Any other line of strategy, except building a extensive military just 
 seems pointless. And even then, you can go 7 to 40 turns building a tank and see it get leveled 
 by some guy holding a chain?!?! Just stupid.
  
  Really though, the gaming is well put together in every other respect.
  
  I just don't see 
 how others are livid or this... its a crock of ... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LONFR
Rating: 9.4
Date: Dec 29, 2005 2:30 am PT
Review:  If you're familiar with the Civilization series, then you're already well aware that they've traditionally 
 been turn-based strategy games that let you play as the political leader of one of the world's 
 nations (such as Gandhi of India or Julius Caesar of Rome) in a fictitious bid to take over the 
 globe, starting from the Stone Age and continuing right on through to the Space Age by having a 
 lone settler unit build your first city on the way to establishing whatever advanced society you 
 choose to design over the course of dozens of turns. The series gives you plenty of ways to do 
 this, such as conquering your neighbors, researching advanced technology, or, in Civilization III 
 (and IV) , creating the most cultured society on the planet. It's this great variety that helps 
 give Civ IV the same alarmingly addictive quality its predecessors carried. And thanks to its many 
 improvements, major and minor, and its greater emphasis on strategy over bean-counting, Civ IV 
 isn't just as good as Civ has ever been... it's better. 
  
  Like in previous games, your political leader has two special traits that will influence his or 
 her reign, though all the game's traits are new, such as "organized," which cuts down on maintenance 
 costs, or "expansive," which generates bonus health in cities and helps hasten growth and expansion. 
 And Civilization IV fundamentally offers the same goals, but in a much more evolved, more strategic, 
 and ultimately more rewarding manner. And each of these goals comes with many more options, which 
 should open the game up to players with busy schedules... even if it may still seem overwhelming 
 to beginners. 
  
  The Civ series' gameplay has several components, and almost every single one of them is improved 
 in Civ IV. For instance, the series' combat system, which pits different military units against 
 one another based on relative unit strength and technology, has been changed to a "strength" system 
 that seems more intuitive. Units that are greatly advanced will have a clear advantage over more-primitive 
 ones (to avoid the commonly cited, though rare, case of a tribal spearman defeating a tank in previous 
 games) , and military units in general have many different upgrades they can earn as they receive 
 experience points and gain power levels. In addition, artillery has been tweaked to be much more 
 useful. It can bombard targets, such as enemy cities, to lower defenses and to deal collateral 
 damage to large "stacks" of armies. These improvements don't make battles all that much more complicated 
 , but they do add more depth to combat, since both attackers and defenders have more factors to 
 consider. 
  
  Civ IV has also improved on the way diplomacy works. While you can still make nice with your neighbors 
 (and you can even win the game with a diplomatic victory condition) , you have more options than 
 just trading goods, cities, technologies, and/or relations. You can attempt to influence your neighbors 
 to make war or peace with other neighbors, and you can even fence everyone out of your backyard 
 using the game's new "open borders" system. In previous games, neighboring nations could send their 
 city-building settlers and their soldiers wandering across your nation, free to declare war on 
 your vulnerable home cities and worker civilians unless you complained strenuously (which sometimes 
 caused them to declare war anyway) . In Civ IV, the new border system means that no units from any 
 other country can enter yours unless you have agreed to open borders with that particular country... or 
 unless you're at war with that particular country. This is a godsend for defensive players who 
 prefer to hang back to develop an economic, scientific, or cultural infrastructure without fear 
 of ambush. However, even this new addition is balanced, since keeping your borders locked up tightly 
 and never coming to your neighbors' aid doesn't make many friends. Other nations actually remember 
 your actions and are poorly disposed if you refuse them too many favors
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Indalamar
Rating: 9.6
Date: Dec 28, 2005 9:36 pm PT
Review:  This game will rocks your socks-ors, you become an addict and play and play and play.
  
  Game's will usually at least last 3-31/2 hours which is only inluding maybe 5 or 6 player in the 
 game but ig you have 18 players, make yourself some coffee, well that, 10 redbulls and a case of 
 Coke you'll be stuck to your chair by the end of the game (or the next) I can't really explain 
 the reason for it's addictivness it just consumes you and torture's you soul but you feel like 
 you want it tortured for some reason.
  
  The music fits into the cultural experience and so does Leonard Nimoy.
  
  The graphics for 
 their portraits and pictures are downright amazing, but not so much on the actual gameplay, but 
 get me wrong they aren't bad they're just not that good.
  
  If you are a newcomer you will need the tutorial as if it's theonly source of food for a day enough 
 for 1 person in an island of 2 billion. The game would be almost impossible to know how to play 
 if you were a newcomer and didn't play the tutorial and destroy Ghandi.
  
  Value... as I said, like crack... nuff' said
  
  Overall If I could rate the game myself for 
 overall I would give it a 9.7. And my playing date will be 100 hours or more. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: whazza600
Rating: 9.8
Date: Dec 28, 2005 8:01 pm PT
Review:  I've been playing this series since it first came out and it is still just as addictive. In fact, 
 I'll probably still be playing it until they come out with the next installment. Every game you 
 play will be different from the next and there are so many different strategies to try out for 
 many of the different victory conditions. It's also one of the few games I can't immediatly beat 
 on the harder levels. 
  
  Graphics - I'm normally hard to impress in the graphics department but it isn't a main factor to 
 my enjoyment of a game. The graphics were pleasing, more than 10 times better then the last installment, 
 and you won't get tired of looking at the screen. Still, I wouldn't want to have a poster of anything 
 I saw in the game.
  
  Sound - Heh, I've never had a sound track to any game but this came with one. It was actually very 
 impressive for a video game and there are a few songs i'm actually fond of. The only way they could 
 improve this would be to have the opponents actually talk to you.
  
  Gameplay - I'm sure there is enough praise for this catagory without me having to add to it. Try 
 it and you'll find out for yourself.
  
  Value - I've probably put more hours on any game in this series then anything else i've played 
 and this installment will be no different. If they never come out with another one, I'm sure i'll 
 be able to pick it up in 10 years and still have fun.
  
  Tilt - I'd say even if you hated video games you would love this one. And if you still don't love 
 it, you are just a complete idiot...
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: LOmS
Rating: 9.3
Date: Dec 28, 2005 6:39 pm PT
Review:  I have never been much for the Civ games i was probably to young or something, but this one ooooo 
 it got me it got me real bad after only 5-10 minutes or so i was hooked i could't stop playing 
 almost like a where under a spell or something like that . I think the game had it all almost flawless 
 game in its genre and then all should know that i am a "beat the crap out of people game" player 
 but some times i try some other game styles and Civ 4 have really showed me that i should a more 
 open mind to this kind of games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Conn06
Rating: 8.6
Date: Dec 28, 2005 2:32 pm PT
Review:  I love this game because I love Building stuff, cities, and midevil stuff.
  So if you like this stuff too this game is for you!!
  If you want more for your Civilization 
 IV game then you need Internet!
  I myself havn't tried the Internet version but I am sure it is FUN!!
  Cheats are:
  Cheatdialog 
 
  After applying "CheatCode = chipotle" in configuration-file, open console with ~ and use command 
 "game. toggledebugmode".
  With debugmode turned on you can press SHIFT+T to open CheatDialog to alter Gold and Technology 
 
  
  Cheat Effect 
  SHIFT+T CheatDialog 
  
  Insert Unit/City 
  After active the cheat mode, press ctrl+shift+left click on a tile. A menu will pop up and allow 
 you to insert unit or city for players/opponent. 
  Cheat Effect 
  ctrl+shift+left click Insert Unit/City 
  
  More hot keys 
  First enable Debug Mode then have 
 either a unit or a city selected and push the following keys: 
  Cheat Effect 
  (Unit) Ctrl + "+" Unit level up 
  (City) "+" Immediately complete whatever the city is producing 
 
  (City) Ctrl + "+" Add 10 to city culture 
  (City) Shift +"+" Add 1 to city population 
  he-he 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FoxyGail43
Rating: 9.3
Date: Dec 28, 2005 2:07 pm PT
Review:  Hi.
  I enjoy downloading games from gamespot, the web site is setup
  so that it's easy to find what I'm looking for and I beleive that the design of the web site is 
 very sharp looking for it's not to crowded and this also makes it easier to find things that I'm 
 looking for , Gamespot also offers 
  faster downloads for it's cliental which is appreciated a great deal and helps when the web site 
 has so many others on it downloading games movies and a lot more and it's nice to see that when 
 I'm looking for recent releases that Gamespot is on top of it and offers all the up to date info 
 on the new releases thank you Gamespot. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mikeski
Rating: 8.9
Date: Dec 28, 2005 12:14 pm PT
Review:  An absolute hit from the time it came out and it will continue to be until the next one comes out. 
 From the second you sit down and start the game you hear the soundtrack which is a little monotonous 
 but has a smooth flowing sound to it. Then you see all the options you can chose from to optimize 
 your gaming experience and all the great worlds leaders that are available for choosing. Once 
 you start the game it will begin to load but it doesnt take very long however it is a little boring 
 to wait even with the hints that present themselves at the bottom. Once you are set out to play 
 the views are similar to Warcraft III which also allowed for zooming in and out for closer view 
 or further out to view the entire map. The graphics are not amazing as in the all Civilization 
 games but the game play hooks unto to you and doesnt let go until you have won and beaten all 
 the other world leaders in military conquest. 
  There are campaigns set up for you to begin such as the American Revolution or Europe in the Middle 
 Ages during the crusades or set out your conquest to capture all the continents that are occupied 
 by the computer our your friends. You can also set up a custom game with different worlds and one 
 computer or six to verse you. So many options so little time because nights are becoming shorter 
 and days longer during which other games must be tested and played. I hope this helps you in choosing 
 to play this game because it is truly amazing. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: slippery209
Rating: 9.8
Date: Dec 28, 2005 10:54 am PT
Review:  The latest entry in the Civilization series easily lives up to the series's name and sets the bar 
 by which future strategy games will be judged. 
  
  Civilization IV's diverse and addicting gameplay can keep one occupied for hundreds, if not thousands 
 of hours. When I say I've played the game for an amount of time between 10 and 20 hours, keep in 
 mind that (in my case, anyway) you're talking 10 to 20 hours in a timespan of about 72 hours. 
 
  
  It's likely that even if you select to create the world the exact same way twice (for example, 
 creating a world full of lakes and a cold climate) , the two worlds would be a match in characteristics 
 alone. Each map would have a very different shape and the civilizations in them would have drastic 
 differences in location and convieniently-available resources from one map to another. To sum up, 
 no two games of Civilization IV are alike.
  
  The game does well to show the player a glimpse of what it is like to be the ruler of a civilization 
 through the changing times and situations. I say a glimpse because, of course, the game can't be 
 100% realistic. However, some aspects of it are. For example, if you work your way up the game 
 and research both the paper and machinery technologies, you will be able to research the printing 
 press technology. Research the currency technology and you'll be able to trade amounts of gold 
 with other civilizations. Research meditation and you have the opportunity to be the founder of 
 Buddhism. The list goes on.
  
  On the back of the game box, there is one statement in particular that I'd like to talk about: 
 "... history as you know it, is history." There couldn't be a truer statement about the game. The 
 Malinese could be the first people to discover and create the atomic bomb. The state religion of 
 England could be Taoism. The Pyramids could be built in Athens. The worlds capable of being made 
 in the game usually do not depict real-world geography; thus, the "American Empire" might end up 
 being built adjacent to the Roman Empire. Rulers are eternal: at the beginning of the game, when 
 you pick your civilization and ruler, that ruler will never die or pass otherwise. Albeit these 
 unrealistic facts, the game could probably still be used to teach a history class.
  
  Civilization IV uses the keyboard and mouse as input. I see nothing faulty with these controls, 
 and the numpad especially is put to good use. Numerous options allow you to make the game and the 
 worlds easier to interact with, such as turning visible health bars for units on or off, or choosing 
 to display or hide gridlines on the world.
  
  Civ IV is the first game in the Civilization series to use three-dimensional graphics. Some Civilization 
 veterans don't like the jump from 2-D to 3-D, but admit that it'll grow on them. Being relatively 
 new to the Civilization series myself, I can say that the graphics do the game justice. When your 
 workers build roads, you see those roads on the map. The types of buildings you see in your cities 
 change with the ages; at first, you'll see primative huts. If your civilization withstands the 
 test of time, those huts can develop into looming skyscrapers or other modern buildings. Simply 
 put, the graphics are great for the game.
  
  Civilization IV has little in the way of sound, but what it does have is just right. The menu music, 
 entitled "Baba Yetu", is basically the words to the Lord's Prayer sung in Swahili. It gives the 
 game a feel that is hard to describe, but it fits in very well. If you use your mouse wheel to 
 zoom in to your cities in the game, you hear some music that is befitting of the current era that 
 the game is in. Sounds of your men trekking through jungles and animal noises are eminent. All 
 the sounds in the game are done right.
  
  In closing, Civilization IV is an extremely fun turn-based strategy game. If you have even a mild 
 interest in turn-based strategy (or even if you're diehard Age of Empires-style real-time fan) , 
 history, or even if you don't, this game is probably worth a look. Numerous difficulty levels, 
 from the easy to the insanely difficult ones, allow you to tailor the difficulty to your liking. 
 A well-done tutorial helps new players get into the game, but it takes a lot more than that to 
 learn to play the game well. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: CrimsonTide29
Rating: 9.6
Date: Dec 27, 2005 4:18 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay- The gameplay in Civilization IV is, as always in Civ games, grand and epic. 
  
  To new players the game may seem overwhelming however there is a tutorial (which for players with 
 any past Civ experience will be unnecessary) to help new people to the franchise along with learning 
 the game (and trust me you will want to do it) . Previous players will spend a game or two adjusting 
 to some of the new changes however they are not very extreme and getting used to the game will 
 be easy for Civ Fanatics.
  
  Graphics- The graphics are pretty good however they are not quite as perfect as they can be. Lower 
 performance systems may have problems with the sheer size of the game.
  
  Sound- Perfect. No if buts and whys about it. The music is very good, the sound effects wonderful. 
 You'll find yourself knowing the religious music (which informs you of religious events and the 
 like) very well because even the small stuff is very memorable.
  
  Value- Civ fans. BUY IT NOW. Those new to the franchise who enjoy strategy or turn-based games 
 on a grand scale owe yourselves to try the game out.
  
  Overall- Great game, great sequel. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Haggadorn
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 26, 2005 7:27 pm PT
Review:  "For if ye forgive men their trespasses,
  your heavenly Father will also forgive you:
  but if ye forgive not men their trespasses,
  neither will your Father forgive your trespasses."
 
  -- Matthew, Chapter 6, verses 15-16
  
  http://www. civfanatics. net/downloads/civ4/music/BabaYetu. mp3 
  
  A rough transcription of the 
 musical lyrics you will find at the above address:
  
  Baba Yetu
  by Christopher Tin 
  
  http://christophertin. com/
  
  (Chorus, repeated twice several times in the composition)
 
  
  Baba yetu, yetu uliye
  Mbinguni yetu, yetu, amina!
  Baba yetu, yetu uliye
  Jina lako litukuzwe.
  
  Bridge:
  
  Utupe leo chakula chetu
  Tunachohitaji utusamehe
 
  Makosa yetu, hey!
  Kama nasi tunavyowasamehe
  Waliotukosea usitutie
  Katika majaribu, lakini
  Utuokoe, na yule, milelea milele!
  
  (Chorus 2x)
  
  Ufalme wako 
 ufike utakalo
  Lifanyike duniani kama mbinguni. (Amina)
  
  (Chorus 2x)
  
  Utupe leo chakula chetu
  Tunachohitaji utusamehe
  Makosa yetu, hey!
  Kama nasi tunavyowasamehe
 
  Waliotukosea usitutie
  Katika majaribu, lakini
  Utuokoe, na yule, simama mwehu
  
  Baba yetu, yetu uliye
  Jina lako litukuzwe.
  
  The lyrics of this composition, which is causing 
 quite a stir around the world, are based around -- not exactly the same as -- the Swahili words 
 for 'the Lord's Prayer'. The link above is to an MP3 audio file of Christopher Tin's 'Baba Yetu', 
 the title or theme song of the new computer game 'Sid Meier's Civilization IV'.
  
  http://www. civiv. com
  
  http://www.2kgames. com/civ4/home. htm
  
  Accompanied by dramatic 
 music -- Christopher Tin's 'Coronation' -- which, as my sons reminded me, is reminiscent of the 
 award-winning music score of 'The Lion King', the game begins in stirring fashion as you soar through 
 outer space, planets and moons spinning by, and begin to descend majestically toward the Earth. 
 As you approach the stratosphere, a light sparks out on the surface, quickly joined by thousands, 
 and in a second you realize they are the lights of human civilization on the planet.
  
  ['Baba Yetu' plays while you are installing the game. JW]
  
  Imagine you are of another race, 
 from another planet far away, regaled by this scene and the ones that follow, as your first introduction 
 to humanity and the Earth. Or try to imagine, for that matter, that you are from another culture, 
 far from the western ones that have permitted you to have access to these media and artistic materials.
 
  
  The opening cinematic continues to unfold, not in modern times, but in classical ones ... you soar 
 into a coastal scene with a home city doing battle against an attacking fleet of triremes and galleys. 
 You fly above a roaring crowd of people running in the direction of the battle, not away from it, 
 and you join a huge volley of fiery arrows soaring through the air in the direction of the fleet.
 
  
  You get the idea ... the cinematic suggests the magnificence, or perhaps the grandiosity, of human 
 civilization. One might be able to do so without glorifying war, but the game-makers know their 
 audience. The people who will be buying this game, many of them, are fascinated by strategic warfare, 
 and so, I guess they figure, what is the harm of 'playing' to that in a sensationalistic manner?
 
  
  That's the most negative thing you are going to hear me say about this game. It is a magnificent 
 work of art. And in the game itself, military victory is only one of the options for winning. You 
 can also win by economic dominance, by launching a starship to Alpha Centauri (a recurring theme 
 in this series of games) , diplomatically, by building the United Nations and world peace, and culturally, 
 by advancing your civilization into new realms of knowledge and artistic endeavor.
  
  Most remarkably, you, the player, or rather your 'civ', can also found, and advance, any of seven 
 of the world's major religions ... or even more than one. Religion is used in the game as part 
 of culture, and will contribute influence to your civilization in a way that can help you win the 
 game ... notably without spawning movements of religious fanatics intent upon destroying anything 
 built by their rival civilizations.
  
  The opening cinematic ends with the crowning of a new king, above an adoring crowd of people assembled 
 for the coronation (with Christopher Tin's masterpiece, 'Coronation', accompanying) , surrounding 
 by architecture and statuary reminiscent of the ancient Greeks and Romans.
  
  My children gave me this game for Christmas. I had been playing computer games a bit less lately, 
 despite the fact that this fall I started a hobby club at my son Cole's school based around the 
 game's predecessor, Civilization III. I am swept away by it, especially by the Firaxis Software 
 team's thorough investigation of the potential of computer games for doing good ... for education 
 and acculturation. The good intentions of this company and its production allies in getting this 
 game out are truly wonderful. They come through the sensationalism, and inspire only admiration, 
 in those who look deeply enough to see it.
  
  Yes, this company, and this game, are serious about succeeding in a competitive business, but they 
 also do good work. I recommend this game to anyone who wants a thrill around competitive strategic 
 gaming, but also to anyone who would like to experience, or utilize, the educational potential 
 of computer games. A lifetime gamer myself, I recognize that this is something I will be doing 
 just as long as I can, and that may be questionable in some peoples' minds, but it is part of me, 
 something that started as a hobby in my childhood, and flowered into a fuller involvement as I 
 progressed into my middle years.
  
  I would like to publicly thank Firaxis Software for donating, at my request, eight copies of Civilization 
 III to our Computer Strategic Gaming Club. You have inspired our children here in Windham County, 
 Vermont, including my own son Cole, and I will not forget your generosity and dedication to education. 
 Firaxis also maintains special web resources for teachers and schools, who are among the market 
 for their fine games.
  
  Baba Yetu, indeed, and 'Swords Into Ploughshares'. You can have it all in this game, so long as 
 you have the time and the computer rig to run it. And therein lies the rub. It's not this game 
 company's fault that so many of the people of the world will never have the opportunity to enjoy 
 this game. But as humanity, our future is still unfolding, and perhaps one day a nice home computer 
 will be encountered everywhere in the world just as often as the telephone is today. Will that 
 keep us from seeing smaller civilizations or tribes as 'barbarians', the way this game does, fit 
 for nothing but conquest?
  
  Look into this game the way you would look into a mirror ... see yourself, your civilization, your 
 fine points, your faults and foibles, and humanity's penchant for indulging injustice through indifference. 
 Then use it, please, to do some good, by educating children (and yourselves) at the same time that 
 you are staying entertained. 
  
  And for Christ's sake, get them past the warfare and sensationalism, and into the more redeeming 
 qualities and endeavors of life. From my contacts with them, I'm sure Firaxis wants their products 
 used in such a manner.
  
  For those of you who do not know it, the 'Lord's Prayer' is how legend teaches us that Jesus, in 
 the Sermon on the Mount, taught his followers how to pray. These are the words to the prayer in 
 English:
  
  Our Father, who art in heaven
  Hallowed be thy name.
  Thy kingdom come, thy will be done
  on Earth as it is in heaven.
  
  Give us this day our 
 daily bread,
  and forgive us our trespasses,
  as we forgive those who trespass against us
  And lead us not into temptation,
  but deliver 
 us from evil
  
  For thine is the kingdom, and the power, and the glory,
  Forever and ever!
  Amen
  
  Will the people who live in poverty, in suffering, and in dire 
 danger, including circumstances of violence, all over the world ever be comforted by the existence 
 of a computer game like this? Should anyone be comforted by the fact that some cultures and civilization 
 permit their people to while away long hours in such pastimes, while so many, many people in so 
 many, many other places are starving, dying, even killing, sometimes even for the mineral resources 
 that are used to make our computers and computer games?
  
  It's a beautiful game ... I recommend it whole-heartedly. But for my heart to be whole, I must 
 somehow also constantly seek new ways of serving those whose lives will not be touched by games 
 like this. So I will use this game to refresh and restore myself, to help me recover from the moments 
 when I sit, aghast and appalled, reading the horrific news of the world's suffering, so much of 
 it caused by my own 'civilization'.
  
  Would that all people everywhere could feel the joy and exhilaration of an experience like playing 
 'Civilization IV', or for that matter, experience 'Baba Yetu', the work of art. It is safe to say 
 that may who cannot play the game will hear this very inspiring music ... and I think that is a 
 good thing. This young composer is 'going places', and Firaxis Software has hit its stride as the 
 firm that puts 'civilization' into computer gaming.
  
  -- John Wilmerding
  
  P. S.: During the game, if you have music enabled, as your 'civ' gets its advances in science, the 
 arts, etc., you will also be regaled by dozens of the finest classical music compositions. I'm 
 sure this game will win many awards for this inspiring 'soundtrack'. And 'Baba Yetu' may possibly 
 become one of the world's best-known songs.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: mem11363
Rating: 9.6
Date: Dec 26, 2005 6:18 pm PT
Review:  This is probally the most addictave game I have ever played. When I read the reveiws and scores, 
 saw the realease date, and found out there was a demo, I WAS HAPPY (: . When I downloaded the demo 
 and started playing for the first time, I did not like it that much. But the more I played, the 
 more I got better, and the more I got better the more I liked it. The selection of leaders you 
 can chose from rocks, the number of choices you choose from and what you can choose from is superb, 
 and finally, the way you can associate with other kings, and queens makes you feel like a true 
 king. The sound is something I'm bad at rating, but it did'nt catch my attention enough so I'll 
 just give it a 9. The graphics made you feel comftorbale. Theres nothing speaicial about the price, 
 $50 seems like a ussual price. Yet all of it adds up to an amazing game, and the chances of you 
 liking it are tiny. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pyroistheone
Rating: 9.7
Date: Dec 26, 2005 4:43 pm PT
Review:  Civ IV is far and away the best PC game this year. I may even say that it rivals Resident Evil 
 4 for game of the year.
  
  Gameplay is phenominal. In a way, Cid Meier made the player responsible for the gameplay because 
 your own organization ability plays a major part.
  
  The most addicting game ever. Building a civilization in this game is like having a puppy. Sometimes, 
 no matter how hard you try you can't spend too much time away from it.
  
  Games can be VERY long (my last one took 7+ hours) , which may be a drawback for some, but a benefit 
 for others. Believe me, you wil lose sleep over this game.
  
  Graphics are great. You can zoom in to your cities and see some very intricate details.
  
  
 You need a fairly decent computer to run the game as it requires a 1.2gHz processor (minimum. runs 
 pretty slow up until 1.5 or so) , 256MB of RAM (but i suggest 512+) , a 64MB video card, a GeForce 
 2/Radeon 7500 graphics card, and 1.7GB of free hard drive space 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ravon_mith
Rating: 9.7
Date: Dec 26, 2005 9:49 am PT
Review:  This is a turn based game which actually makes you sit at the edge of your seat waiting for the 
 other players next move. And the rendition of multiplayer is superb... who would ever thought of 
 so much excitement from just playing a turn based strategy? the multiplayer is flawless... technically, 
 the graphics is the eventual upgrade that all genre of games are experiancing, so you have your 
 pixel shaders and such. But perhaps the optimization for older systems should be better, either 
 that or the generic graphic options available should give more control. One complaint i have is 
 the music, i liked the intro african cultural music, and well.... in game there's not much to listen 
 to. A better selection for the musical score would be better, but heck... each to their own comment. 
 But whatever anyone should say, even if u have a passing interest in strategy games, you should 
 try this out. You will never regret it..... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DisneyFREAK91
Rating: 9.6
Date: Dec 25, 2005 9:54 pm PT
Review:  Turn-based combat, history lessons, a learning curve of a day or two.... All the ingrediants to 
 an extremely boring game. BUT!!! Sid Meier has INDEED found a way to make this genre amazingly 
 fun! With amazingly in-depth features such as religion, research, and layout customization, this 
 game offers one amazingly unique style of gameplay that the normal gamer would find boring. I find 
 these type of games terrible, but after my friend got me into it, I fell in love with it.......... wait 
 a minute...... today's Christmas....... I've been playing it for a couple hours and I still love 
 it already. And if you're thinking that the game's effects will wear off soon, don't count on it. 
 From what I've seen, Civ. IV offers a wide-array of gameplay to keep you busy for days on end. 
 Plus, it comes with one of the best title screen songs I've ever heard in my life which is now 
 on my ipod! Good choice in music guys ;) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MattClough
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 25, 2005 8:08 pm PT
Review:  Alright, for those of you like me, looking for something even better than Civ 2, which you didn't 
 find in Civ 3 and were hoping to find in Civ 4, . . . . you'll again be dissappointed. The gameplay 
 is simple, but the things that made Civ 2 so great, like cool wonder movies and real time advisors 
 are absent. More importantly, there is no Throne room, the wonder movies although better, are computer 
 generated and like Civ 3, and kinda lame. There are no real life actors to give you advice (and 
 make you laugh) , and you seemingly cannot transport your settles on the Caravel to expand you Civilization. 
 Civ 2 is still the best, and the last two, although made more developements in detail of things 
 like city terrain, and map characters, the gameplay, wonder movies, and settler expansion of Civ 
 2 are still far more fun addictive and unique than what I've found in Civ 3 and unfortunately now 
 in Civ. 4. Civ 4 is Civ 3 with neon color added. Civ 2 is still the best format to play Sid's original 
 game design. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: _Pedro_
Rating: 9.4
Date: Dec 25, 2005 12:33 pm PT
Review:  This game came so unexpected to me. I was following the hype of FEAR/Quake 4 and completely forgot 
 about this game. 
  
  I am a fan of the series, but not a huge one. I liked all the previous, but like with Quake 4 i 
 was worried it wouldn't live up to it. Thank god it proved me wrong. I love this game. It's stopped 
 me playing battlefield 2 for 2 months. It certainly has the best multiplayer. It's very deep and 
 allows you to determin a lot of aspects of your empire. 
  
  It is turn/based, but the funny thing is you love it that way. It makes you chat with a lot of 
 people and plan strategies with your allies against your enemies. This game will make you think 
 about what resources you've got to have. The lands you need to have. What alliances to pick. 
 
  
  this game makes you think, i personally like games like that. For people who don't like games where 
 you have to think this will probably also enjoy you, but only to a certain degree. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dlwynndnn1
Rating: 9.6
Date: Dec 25, 2005 5:59 am PT
Review:  As I said in the review deck the wonders videos are so wonderful that you try to build them all 
 before another Civics. ruler. The new cultural borders for Civics. is a nice added touch, as well 
 as all the great looking icons for commands and unit types etc. The graphics engine is great and 
 the graphics are well rendered and polished. All the seemingly endless techs. to research and discover 
 are a nice addition. The camera views/angles in Civics. IV are very user friendly... to a point that 
 you can zoom out and look at the entire globe of earth along w/ the location of resources units 
 etc. The only cons w/ Civics. IV is that there should be a male and female ruler for every race. For 
 instance, Egypt has a female ruler and no male, as well Japan has a male and no female. Perhaps Cid 
 will prompted 2K to make an expansion w/ these and maybe some other little tidbits. Another con 
 is you can never seem to out way the other Civics. rulers in techs. It seems as though when you 
 advanced, to say, the medieval age the other Civics. do to... or there not far behind. Case in point 
 ,Like in Civ. II you could windup being so far more advanced than the other Civics. that you could 
 have riflemen and they would still have horseman and archers at their disposal. So the hard work 
 and effort in expanding quickly ,building wonders, and city improvements out the wa zoo and efficiently 
 ,and even to the point of almost entirely neglecting military still does not seem to be enough 
 to stay ahead... for long. One other feature still (and thankfully) availble is that tiny customizable 
 thing called "The World Builder". With all this being said, Civics. IV is so sweet. Despite those little 
 cons or peeves I have. Also there's the on-line and hot seat, and multi player modes, and Leonard 
 Ne
  moy who narrates the tech. advances. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: eclipse849
Rating: 3.7
Date: Dec 24, 2005 12:23 pm PT
Review:  When I was a small boy my mom once told me never judge a book by its cover or a review for that 
 matter. A couple of weeks ago I logged on to gamespot to look at some games when i noticed that 
 Civilization 4 was out and was todays top game. Because it got a 9.4 and i had the money i went 
 out and bought the game thinking that it has to be good it got a 9.4. Boy i was wrong. I have never 
 played a turned based game before and I will never play one again. If i wanted to wait for my turn 
 I would have gotten Monopoly. Now dont get me wrong some of the stuff was pretty cool. The history 
 aspect of the game was one of the strong points of the game. As you progress through history you 
 go through stages like the industrial revolution and and build famous structures like the pyramids 
 and stonehedge. The graphics in this game are not as good as they could have been. The fact that 
 the game had no singleplayer its a complete waste of time in my book. This game had some issues 
 when it came to sound especially when someone is attacking you and all you can hear is Ahh, AHH 
 and then finally OWWW. No value whatsoever in this game not any. Unless you are obsessed with history 
 then fine go out and by this game. As for the rest of us who finds that history isnt that fun in 
 a video game STAY AWAY. Disappointing... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cqdemal
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 26, 2007 6:17 am PT
Review:  When I was 13, I got my hands on this game called Civilization. I knew next to nothing about strategy 
 gaming, was absolute pants at the game, but was thrilled anyway at the prospect of guiding a nation 
 from its birth to 'victory'. As an ignorant kid, I didn't dwell on the game very long.
  
  When Civilization 2 came out, I picked it up immediately as the memory of the first game still 
 lingered in the back of my head. That was the real beginning of my Civ addiction. Civilization 
 3, in my opinion, was one of the greatest games ever made, held back only by several minor flaws. 
 I was willing to call it perfect.
  
  Then came Civilization 4. And it's beyond perfection.
  
  The first thing that hits you when 
 you start a new game is, of course, the visuals. Based on the same engine that powered Pirates!, 
 Civ 4 looks gorgeous. It's definitely not a visual powerhouse, but the style suits the game perfectly 
 and the level of detail is unprecedented in a Civ game, or the turn-based strategy genre for that 
 matter. The sound effects are of the same nature as in previous Civ titles, with some nice touches 
 like how units of different nationalities speak different languages, while the music is unobstrusively 
 exceptional, including perhaps one of the best tracks ever played in a menu screen. The interface 
 is hands-down the best ever in a strategy game, as it presents a great deal of information to the 
 player without having to flood the screen with small windows. The game is almost perfectly playable 
 without leaving the main screen at all.
  
  The gameplay itself has been changed a lot, but the qualities of the core game remain intact. The 
 way you establish cities, train units, and build improvements haven't changed much, but there are 
 tweaks applied to almost every aspect of the game. To list the changes here would be a waste of 
 space, as you would probably fall asleep or run to the nearest store before you finish reading 
 the review, so I'll sum it up like this: it's now possible to win without massive expansion, or 
 even without wars. You're no longer in a disadvantage if you choose to play peacefully. This, of 
 course, is partly due to the revamped combat system...
  
  ... which is probably the most discussed feature of Civ 4. In past titles, units have 3 attributes: 
 attack, defense, and movement. Now only two remain: power and movement. Instead, units get a lot 
 of special bonuses to distinguish between them, and power scales from a lowly 2 to 30 or 40, which 
 is a wider range than previous games. Defending units, especially those in cities, get huge bonuses. 
 This means war has become a cumbersome, for the lack of a better word, but entertaining nonetheless. 
 No longer can you throw several tanks at an enemy nation and wipe the floor with the AI. You're 
 forced to engage in combined arms warfare, with siege units coming to the forefront as they help 
 to reduce the defenders' bonuses. The ultimate result is that war, if improperly planned, can actually 
 be detrimental to the progress of your civilization. Even if you win.
  
  Another big addition is the concept of religions. Even though the seven religions in game are essentially 
 the same one with different names, this feature provides a new (if rather small) facet of gameplay 
 that affects culture, diplomacy, and the choices of your civics. Will you encourage the growth 
 of your state religion alone, or will you let everyone believe in whatever one wants to? The choice 
 is now yours. The only downside to this aspect of the game is that AI civilizations tend to be 
 slightly too aggressive towards civilizations with different religions.
  
  One surprising fact must be said before I close this review. The multiplayer is absolutely fantastic. 
 Yes, it's a fact. Past attempts at multiplayer Civ have more or less failed. With Civ 4, the game 
 goes faster (this applies to singleplayer mode too, with several game speeds to choose from) and 
 there's less waiting and more scheming. There's built-in voice chat too, so you can now talk smack 
 to your opponent while you are about to attack his last defender in his capital city. Neat.
  
  No matter how you look at it, Civilization 4 is Firaxis' towering achievement. The game is, 
 as I said earlier, beyond perfection. If you're mildly interested in strategy gaming, don't forget 
 to pick this up. If you're a regular strategy gamer, pick this up as soon as possible. If you're 
 a Civ fan, you should be ashamed for sitting there reading this review instead of playing the game.
 
  
  Now, pardon me while I... DIE, MONGOLS!!
  
  (Have I told you that, after the first patch (v1.09) , the game can be played in windowed mode?) 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SadExchange
Rating: 9.4
Date: Dec 23, 2005 7:59 pm PT
Review:  October 25th of 2005 was a pretty big day for fans of a concentrated genre of computer games. Sid 
 Meier released his newest installment in the Civilization series being Sid Meiers Civilization 
 IV which also happens to be the best of the series to date. After realizing the mistakes that they 
 made in the past with the previous installments in the series, Firaxis Games, the developers, listened 
 to their fans who loved all aspects of their series and made the fourth Civ game that much more 
 enjoyable for everyone from the hardcore Civ fans to the basic newcomer to the series/genre. Pretty 
 much anyone, including those who never heard of the series would be able topick up this title and 
 begin their own civilization and begin.
  
  For those of you who are not familiar with previous Civilization games, and Im sure that can only 
 be about 5% of the world, they fit into what is known as the turn-based strategy game. Which is 
 kind of self-explanatory from the genre title itself. Its a strategy game that is turn-based where 
 each player takes a turn and then waits until it is their turn again to play. This tends to lead 
 to more strategy than the normal strategy games which fit into the genre of said name. Civilization 
 started back in 1991 where Sid Meier released to the world a unique style of game that launched 
 a huge fan base to this day throughout each of its titles. Some being loved more than others. Most 
 recently, Civilization III was kind of looked down upon because of not initially having a multiplayer 
 component with it and also only seemingly being a rehashed version of Civ II with updated graphics. 
 Well, this time around, the developers not only wanted to make the game graphically better, but 
 better all around in every aspect and many fans agree. They seemed to take all of what was best 
 of each title in the Civ series and glorify it in Civilization IV, listening to the fan community 
 and all the forum posts about previous games, Firaxis Games really brought the vision that their 
 community had been talking about for the past couple of years and made it become something solid 
 and real.
  
  Beginning with the graphics, Civ IV runs on the same graphic engine as Sid Meiers Pirates!, but 
 with a few added enhancements. Being that Pirates!, the remake of the older version, was released 
 almost a year ago, one would think that the graphics are behind the times, but in fact, the graphics 
 fit the overall game quite nicely. Civilization was never known for its cutting edge graphics, 
 and thats because it never had to and this makes everything in the game nicer, in a more user-interface 
 type of way. Like this time around, instead of having to double-click on a city to see what buildings 
 the city actually held, all the improvements are displayed on the normal map and it looks wonderful. 
 As your civilization progresses through the early B. C. to 2050 A. D., youll see every improvement 
 from a granary to many of the wonders that youre able to build within the game. And for each wonder 
 that you do end up finishing, youll be presented with a little wonder movie, a nice feature 
 brought back from the older installments. With the new enhanced graphic engine, the map will never 
 seem cramped and cluttered and also with the amount of roads you have not affecting your commerce 
 and trade, you wont see anymore maps with solid roads every tile of the map. After exploring the 
 map quite a bit, youll begin to see how much of the world youve traveled and by zooming out, 
 youll be able to see just how much land you occupy on the actual globe in its globe form. The 
 engine really shines in Civilization IV, but like I said before, the Civ games never really shined 
 because of their graphics, they shined because of their gameplay.
  
  In a turn-based strategy game, gameplay is supposed to be your shining beacon. Its what separates 
 one game from another in the genre. Does the game have depth, is it engaging, and does it have 
 replayability for the gamer? Some key questions when choosing which game youd like to pick up 
 next at your local retailer and Im proud to say in all of these categories and more, Civilization 
 IV shines. The game has multitudes of depth, but newcomers to the genre/series should not be deterred 
 by this because the depth is only there if you want it. The hardcore gamer could spend hours with 
 the tech tree and determine which way theyd like to take this civilization with the causal gamer 
 can take the suggested techs on the tree when offered the choice. This game is full of choices 
 starting with your choice of eighteen civilizations including: Amercians, Arabians, Aztecs, Chinese, 
 Egyptians, English, French, Germans, Greeks, Incans, Indians, Japanese, Malinese, Mongolians, Perisans, 
 Romans, Russians, and the Spanish. There are boundless choices to even start the game if you so 
 choose. The great part about Civilization IV is that it has as much depth as you want from the 
 game, each and every time you play it. Also added from previous installments in the series is the 
 ability to win in different ways. No longer are you only able to win by sheer force alone. Now 
 youre presented with loads of diplomacy, religion, legislations in the United Nations, and if 
 youd still prefer, a couple of Nuclear bombs to help you along the way, but be forewarned that 
 if the United Nations is created, others will look down upon you for using excessive force, a. k. a., 
 Nuclear Weapons. This game is all about replayability and it plays all around your needs and skills.
 
  
  To make a game truly engaging, it has to have a good soundtrack and thats where the developers 
 succeed yet again with this newest installment. From the opening cinematic to the ending credits, 
 Civilization IV is a sound to be heard. Starting with the opening title screen, you begin to feel 
 like youre about to become apart of something very big. And once in the game, youll be treated 
 to not only ambient noises, but also wonderful music which will have you looking up at the clock 
 and realizing that four hours have gone by and you feel like youve only sat down. And Firaxis 
 Games make no exceptions when dealing with voice dialogue within the game because each and every 
 time you learn something new on the tech tree, your given a short reading by none other than Mr. 
 Spock, also known as Leonard Nimoy. Definitely a treat for anyone. And speaking of not realizing 
 how much time has passed while playing the game, the developers has helped gamers out with that. 
 There is a in-game clock in the corner of the screen which helps gamers keep track of the time 
 and also a little more helpful would be the ability to set an alarm clock which pops up a little 
 screen while youre playing you stating what time it is and that you had set an alarm. While this 
 may not be used by most gamers, those who suffer the trouble of the just one more turn syndrome 
 will truly appreciate it.
  
  Being that so many fans were disappointed by the online multiplayer component of Civilization III, 
 Firaxis Games started Civilization IV from the ground up based off the multiplayer experience so 
 that players of any type would enjoy the multiplayer offered in the latest game in the series. 
 Those who enjoyed the long drawn out matches can still play them and those who enjoy the quick 
 hour or two matches can have their own great experience. Those wanted the email experience are 
 also given their time to shine, plus the developers included other additives to make the multiplayer 
 part just a little more enjoyable for all, this time around. 
  
  Enough cant be said about this game in just one review, so Id advise anyone to read other reviews, 
 but I assure you theyll all tell you that the game is a great experience and even those new to 
 the genre will enjoy this awesome game. Just look at all the sites who are giving this game the 
 overall Game of the Year Awards. That many sites cant be wrong and in my opinion, they arent. 
 If you enjoyed the Civilization series so far, youll love this game. If youre new to this genre 
 and it looks interesting to you, get this game, you wont regret it. The replayability alone should 
 interest anyone and mix that in with great fun, great music, and a great experience, and youll 
 find yourself wanting to use the alarm clock in game while your lips are silently saying, Just 
 one more turn
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: redhead27
Rating: 9.3
Date: Dec 22, 2005 3:50 pm PT
Review:  This game is absolutely an amazing game. Its like being able to rewrite history. Building up massive 
 colonies to then smash down on any nearby opponents is surprisingly satisfying. The only glitch 
 with the game is the high learning curve associated with it. The high learning curve is just a 
 small barrier you have to cross to get to almost a game paradise. Hours will be spent on this game 
 without even noticing it. This game will make you put the rest of your life on hold just so you 
 play one more turn, one more turn.
  
  This game is a fantastic strategy and I recommended it to anyone. From veteran strategy enthusiasts 
 to people who just want to try something new.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: fijas
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 21, 2005 11:20 pm PT
Review:  Outstanding sequal to the oh-so-amazing Civilization 3. Every aspect of that unbelievable game 
 has been tweaked (Never thought that was possible until now!!) to increase playability and depth 
 in the game. New interface is innovative. Simply the best turn based strategy game out there!!! 
 If you like strategy (especially turn-based) , then get off your shiny ass and go out and buy this 
 incredible game. You will play it for hours on end. Only downfall i noticed :- highly addictive 
 and can't get enough sleep. But that really isn't a problem is it??!! I'm out of superlatives..... 
 take care and buy this one. U won't regret it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gr8Gamz
Rating: 9.9
Date: Dec 20, 2005 1:06 pm PT
Review:  First... I have been a huge Civ. fan since the early '90s. I played the game then, great. So many 
 times the sequels are so lackluster... Civ II, wow, Civ III, unemployment office. Now... I got 
 smart... I bring the game to work with me!!! LOL I really do. To play the game and lose all sense 
 of time is remarkable within itself. With all we features the have you in aww, the only time you 
 close your mouth is when you wake up in the morning... to start playing again. Believe me, if you 
 have a taste for strategy games and have $50 to burn... buy the game. You'll understand.... it was 
 an investment. Enjoy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cav27
Rating: 9.3
Date: Dec 20, 2005 8:06 am PT
Review:  Well I can trace my love of computer games to two titles that truly captured my imagination, Civ 
 and C&C Red Alert, so a new title in either series is always something I look forward to, and this 
 time I was not disappointed.
  
  Civ 4 was everything I hoped Civ 2 & 3 would be and more. Everything I loved about the old titles 
 are there, the power of a fledgling nation feels very much in your hands, every decision is yours 
 to make and those decisions have direct and far reaching consequences. 
  More importantly the frustrating aspects of previous games have been done away with while keeping 
 the core values of this series. Namely while you still have to deal with unhappy citizens and war 
 weariness, they cannot cripple your economy with instant revolts. Also city growth has been improved 
 substantively as well as a lot of other welcome changes.
  
  Graphically Civ4 looks amazing, with the world map now in 3D and is very imersive. The little touches 
 really bring the world to life (check out the improvements when they are being worked on by a city) . 
 Also the cities feel part of the world expanding into adjacent tiles as they grow.
  
  Sound-wise it is the best of any turn based strategy thus far, to the point of me stopping play 
 to listen to a particularly rousing piece of classical music. 
  However as in all these games you will all its sounds too many times, considering the length of 
 time put into playing it that is only to be expected.
  
  Overall I would strongly recommend this game to experienced TBS gamers and Newbies alike. It is 
 a joy to play, although as a word of warning, the need to play 'one more turn' will leech away 
 the hours.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gamerboi27
Rating: 9.4
Date: Dec 20, 2005 12:20 am PT
Review:  when u first play this game, ull fine it quite hard and boring.... but after like a few days (depends 
 on the hours spent) this game becomes addicting and fun... tho it takes a long time to finish one 
 game but once u get in to about 1950 A. D. it becomes fun as hell cause u got like tanks and crap... 
 the beggining of the game is really boring cause all u do is expand ur civ and reaserch stuff....... 
 i think this game is almost worth the price.. becuase $59.00 for any game is pretty expensive... i 
 would say this game is worth about 50 bucks... anyways i think if u hav patience and like to play 
 stratigy games, ull find this game really really good.... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mason000
Rating: 7.2
Date: Dec 19, 2005 6:20 pm PT
Review:  the overall gameplay is affected by the onli of every thing from the top which is the god view 
 and the units u train are extremely real but the objects appear to be a fake the battle seem so 
 unrealistic also not even into a battlefield view but still stuck at the god view so the viewing 
 of the game affected the overall experienced i have gain in the game. so if the viewing of the 
 game is changed to like it of rome total war it would be great and it would sure attract more gamers 
 with the more greater gameplay 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ravine1
Rating: 9.8
Date: Dec 19, 2005 5:14 pm PT
Review:  This is the best Civ. game there has ever been. the sound tracks are awesome. The battle's are 
 more in your face and realistic. The graphics are a huge improvement but, are not completly fluvent. 
 the models and the new world builder are interesting. They aren't at all like the ones before where 
 there are absoulutley no fun in them. Multi player is extremley addicting. i wouldn't complain 
 on anything else. If your a civ. fan and you haven't got this game yet, what the hell have you 
 been doing the past 2 months!? Go and get it now!!!!!!! It's worth every single cent you earned 
 over the past 2 months 
::::::

::::::
UserName: takebo
Rating: 9.8
Date: Dec 19, 2005 8:04 am PT
Review:  i'm not a Sid Meier's fan, i never played Sid Meier's games and...
  i decided to buy Civ IV because of many of my friends told about a lot of this game, and you know 
 what, today i'm a Civ IV super fan!
  the game is exellent, the music, the graphic, oh my... i can't find a word to describe how great 
 is the game.
  i though the turn base game is so boring, its sound like wait, ok play, wait, ok play, wait ok 
 play... but in Civ IV was different for me... i need the TURN, one more turn, one more turn, one 
 more turn... and it's never ends.
  i spend my hold damn weekends stuck in Civ IV with my friends.
  the multi-player is awesome, 
 fun for all day all night long... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: enriquecruz
Rating: 9.8
Date: Dec 18, 2005 8:30 pm PT
Review:  Civilization. A WORK OF ART 
  
  This game be described correctly only by one word PERFECT some of the people who havent played 
 the game may think that im overrating it but know if ever have the chance of playing it youll 
 see im as right as it gets.
  
  The games set you up in the beginning of all organized life in planet earth, in the year 4000 bc. 
 Youre give a settler and another unit (scout or warrior depending on the civilization you play) 
 to get you started. You found your city and time begins to pass by as progressively pass your turn 
 and your civilization grows in many ways: army, culture, size, population, production, technologies. 
 
  During the devilment of your civilization many things can happen, you can build a world wonder, 
 you can invade and adjacent civilization, you can discover a new technology or even a new religion, 
 give birth to a great person, maintain good diplomatic relationships, expand you borders and many 
 more stuff making this game as complete and good as it gets
  
  But its up to you to control correctly your civilization and make it the greatest of them all by 
 achieving a victory with one of the many ways there are: the space race, the culture victory, domination, 
 united nations (diplomatic) and a few more.
  You can play the game in different difficulties all making it harder for you to be better than 
 the rest of the civilizations and ultimately win
  
  Take my word and look at civilization as an investment, an investment i you recreation because 
 this game is utterly great and also addictive so youll be looking at yourself playing this game 
 for hours on end son dont hesitate and go buy it now
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: legumo
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 18, 2006 3:21 pm PT
Review:  Look i have no time to waste, so this is going to be quick, thick and fast!
  
  i played Civilization 1-2-3 and i hated all of em, in fact i hate all strategy game in existance...
 
  well, that is until i got CIVILIZATION IV as a present (my wife payed for it)
  and you know what, she wished she didn't do that!
  
  This game is so absorbing and beautiful, 
 even the starting music
  in the menu is worth a grammy award, this is the very best game
  ever made, it's the game i was waiting for all my life, i still hate strategy
  games, but do 
 love and worship CIVILIZATION IV.
  
  my wife doesnt see me anymore, i lost my job and hardly eat or drink
  anymore, i don't sleep 
 and soon i'll be playing CIV 4 in the grave
  but who cares.
  
  something @ the back of your brain tell you to go back
  for another turn.... even if you hate 
 this game, you'll be back to it
  in no time... you'll say.... I HATE IT , I HATE IT, you'll uninstall it,
  then all of the sudden 
 you cannot sleep or live anymore,
  so you reinstall CIVILIZATION IV and then you find out
  how dumb you were in the first place. :-)
  
  BEST GAME IN THE UNIVERSE !! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mercenary19
Rating: 9.4
Date: Dec 17, 2005 7:38 pm PT
Review:  This game is great game, is highly addictive, so you should not get it if you need to concentrate 
 in school or you should only get it if you can control yourself.
  Since everyone knows what is good I'm going to talk about the bad, but don't get the wrong impression 
 it is still an amazing game.
  First, unless you meet the recomeneded requirements or at least some of the reocommended requirements 
 and some of the minum you should get this game. However, don't make the same mistake as me I only 
 have 256 MB of RAM and a primitive graphics card because of this my game runs extremely slow even 
 though i have a 2.4GHz processor. So that is one of the bad points is that this game requires so 
 much from your computer. You need an amazing computer in order to prevent "bogging and lagging" 
 But if you meet the Recommeneded or even at least the minimum the game will still wrok on your 
 computer you may just have to be patient and MAKE SURE YOUR COMPUTER HAS ENOUGH VIRTUAL MEMORY 
 if you meet only the minimum so that your computer doesn't crash.
  
  Also, the game seems to move faster than previous games. Which is good because it allows you to 
 see the end result more quicker, but de-emphasize the greatness of your city (if you make it great) 
 and that sense of accomplishment after you win. But if you new to the series it will not seem fast 
 at all. Also, the faster speed seems to lessen the Historical effect the previous games had, and 
 it seems to make wonders seem less, well less wonderful. 
  
  The last bad part, if you can consider it bad is the addictiveness of the games. The game draws 
 you away from your true priorities in life. Your schoolwork, your relationships, and your work. 
 However, if you can control yourself and have the will power to stop then this will not be a problem 
 for you. Even one of my Dad's grown doctor friends who does not like video games too much because 
 he finds them too complicated has gotten addicted to this game. Ironically this game is quite complicated 
 and intricate, but once you start playing and get the hang of it, the game will seem to be very 
 simple. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: exulter
Rating: 9.4
Date: Dec 17, 2005 12:13 pm PT
Review:  Great improvement from Civilization III. However, everything comes with a price, the great complexity 
 of gameplay and wonderful graphics hungers for more powerful machine. If you have the spare cash 
 to beef up your machine, GO FOR IT. This is probably the best turn-base strategy you can find for 
 the next decade! If you are have a old machine, I seriously dissuade you from trying at all, the 
 waiting will bored you to death!
  
  If this is the first time you are playing Civilization series, you may want to consider going through 
 the tutorial. Even for a hard core fan like myself who started from the very first Civilization. 
 I find the new features, combat system, technology roadmap pretty complex.
  
  All in all, this is a great game, a must buy for strategist!
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Herenr
Rating: 9.6
Date: Dec 17, 2005 9:22 am PT
Review:  Before I go into details on why I consider this game to be, IMHO, the best strategy game to be 
 released this year, I must comment on a few ridiculous things that I've witnessed other, previous 
 user reviewers mention in their reviews.
  
  For one, did any of the people who called the game boring for not being similar to warcraft 3, 
 actually take time to play the demo, or the original games? It's particularly insulting when they 
 say how Civ 1 or 2 better, yet don't mention how, or call it a boring game in comparison to Civ 
 1 or 2 (LOL!!) , and recommend one pick up an RTS. Someone even went into details about how the 
 game wasn't historically accurate because leaders never changed and civilizations didn't follow 
 their true history!?!?!?
  
  I do, however, feel for those who are having complications running the game, since they are seriously 
 missing out.
  
  It is an understatement to say this game is simply fun. It is enthralling, is easy to control (the 
 numerous concepts are difficult to master however) , and possesses an addictiveness that makes it 
 almost impossible to rise from.
  
  The game always starts out with you choosing a city, and assists the player by suggesting good 
 locations for your city. Some may dislike this, but the assistance provides long lasting effects, 
 particularly when the population grows later in the game.
  
  The game allows you branch out on just about any path you choose and most civilizations start out 
 possessing certain benefits, with leaders that possess specific traits. For instance, George Washington, 
 of the American Empire, is financial and organized so plots with commerce get 1+ added to their 
 commerce when rise about 2 or more commerce, and receives -50% civic upkeep cost and certain buildings 
 are half off.
  
  There are numerous building and technologies in the game that affect how a starting civilization 
 may turn out. You can focus on militaristic develops if you plan on starting wars early on. Cultural 
 bonuses ensure that you borders expand. You could focus on economics if you plan on ensuring your 
 population is always happy, and growth to ensure that they are alway healthy (both of the last 
 two generally ensure there is no unhappiness) . The choices you make may dire or beneficial consequences 
 in the long run. An underdeveloped military makes your empire easy pickings for a militaristic 
 nation. Poor culture will ensure that your cities are captured by more influencing civilizations 
 without any bloodshed. You can trade technology and lands with you opponents, or form diplomatic 
 treaties that ensure trade or the ability to move through friendly lands without provoking war.
 
  There are Great People in the game which can provide immense benefits to cities in which they 
 are settled (if yiu choose to settle them) , or provide other small benefits by continuously doing 
 certain tasks. If things get out of control, you can have the game automate things for you. This 
 can be especially helpful when your engaged in war.
  
  War can be tedious and resource waisting. It also makes your citizens unhappy the longer the war 
 continues. Units can receive promotions in order to better combat certain units, or to provide 
 certain benefits in certain terrain. Certain units are better able to combat certain units, cavalry 
 can crush archers, archers crush melee fighters, and melee fighters crush spearman. The a. i. isan't 
 a push over in combat either.
  
  The a. i. generally excels at playing on a level that constantly challenges the player, and makes 
 for a shrewd, if somewhat artificial, opponent. It generally makes good deals, and generally assist 
 it's allies when war calls (not always though) . There are many more details, but I must ensure 
 I am in the confines of required review length.
  
  The sounds are pretty good, particularly the menu music, and the noises you hear when you zoom 
 in or out during gameplay. The graphics are pretty good for this type of game I suppose, they aren't 
 the selling point however. I haven't experienced any crashes or installation issues as of yet. 
 Though it is odd that the second disk is labeled play, when the first is the play disk.
  
  Just get this game if you love strategy!! You (hopefully) won't regret it. Hopefully my review 
 was clear and concise (probably not) , and my comments on a few of the user reviews, not offensive.
 
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: makinder2004
Rating: 3.1
Date: Dec 16, 2005 10:48 pm PT
Review:  CIV 4 is mediocre at best. This game is totally hyped up for no reason (other than to grab your 
 hard earned money for a poor product) , its gameplay features are certainly , nothing close to orginal 
 let alone inspiring. Beyond the well done tutorial, that walks you through the main game mechanisms 
 ( with a little cameo of Sid Meier doing all that) , the game is a resssounding failure in the strategy 
 genre. It is a faillure because, once you start playing you will get utterly either frustrated 
 or bored with the snails pace of the game (I guess this aspect doent matter to hard core Civ fans) . 
 This is especially bad, when you think that you want to engage your opponents (other Ai controlled 
 civilisations) with relative ease, instead of waiting for them to respond. So , beware that since 
 its a turn based game, you can never expect to experience battles in real time, and for me that 
 is very poor game play. Even worse, lets say you manage to build up your empire (i. e Persians) 
 into something magnificent, its still a tideous and very dull process, you repeat the same steps 
 over and over, in each game, selecting technologies, building nits or giving orders to your units, 
 and waiting endlessly after turns are completed for these actions to take effect. As I found, when 
 you get up and and runnin (albeit the snails pace of the game) , you will see that the game grinds 
 down pretty much, I have a laptop that exceeds the game requirements, however with dozen of cities 
 to manage within the empire, and all the zooming in and out ...... its more work than play, What 
 adds to the apparent misery of Civ 4 t is also, the shifting focus of units, which can be annoying 
 as you dont have total control over the units, the game decides for you to shift focus without 
 your input, once again poor game mechanics, Firafax, need to get back to the drawing board. Moreover 
 I wonder why there is such hype about the array of civilisations. Quantity doensn't = Quality. 
 I think its pretty awefull that Firafax, is selling this game as something historical..... shame 
 on them. Selecting Ghandi to represent India at the same time as Cyrus the Great is the leader 
 for Persia ( who lived and ruled Persia at least 2500 years before Ghandi was born) or George Washington 
 (for US, 1776) , just to name a few, is truly a great way to make a thorough mockery of history, 
 leaving the impression that historical relevance is something Sid Meier finds very hard to grasp 
 as a concept of its own. For all those who cherish historrical relevance, I suggest looking into 
 Empire Earth 2 or for even Victoria : An Empire Under the Sun or Europa Universallis 2, these are 
 truly entertaining games for RTS buffs, and allow you to truly expereince and to some extent re-shape 
 international history (within reasonable limits unlike Civ 4) . Also what I found to be awful are 
 unit designs, i. e. panzers and workers are absurdely largely rendered on a map vis a vis small buildings 
 etc, how can that be ? Were the Unit Designers drunk ? Plus the game has not much strategy to, 
 it millitary wise it extremely limited given the very boring turn based nature of the game. Economically 
 you get into alot micro managment once your empire is of formidable size and keeps growing. Well 
 Sid Meier may have thought adding religion to the mix is cool, but its a disaster. As far as history 
 goes, its the Indian civilisation that came up with Hinduism, but again as this game is a mockery 
 of history and abounds of cultural inaccuracy, the Brits, Persians or Germans or Chinese, can promote 
 and discover hinduism and make it their state region or even building culturally unrelated wonders 
 like the Eiffel Tower (french) , excuse me but this is very very absurd and unreal, how can anyone 
 argue that this acceptable!. Overall CIV 4 is huge mish mash of failures and dissappointments, 
 that shoudnt be worth your money, its truly BORING AS HELL, AND SHOULD BE REPUDATED AS ONE OF THE 
 WORSTSO CALLED" HISTORICAL GAMES EVER MADE. Well done Firafax, in making a mockery of history 
 via Civ 4! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: brealeygp
Rating: 9.3
Date: Dec 16, 2005 4:42 pm PT
Review:  When i saw previews of Civ4, i was both hooked & concerned. Being a Civ fan i was intending to 
 by this anyway (something i havent had the funds to do yet unfortunately) but some of the new edition 
 to the game intrieged me. The new 3D graphics were the first, & in my view are one of the only 
 things im not 2thumbs up about. While there wasnt really anything they could change about Civ3's 
 2D engine, its my opinion that graphics in strategy games can look quite crude compared to other 
 titles. However, the demo has shown me that while perhaps not stunningly beautifull (though by 
 no means out of date) , the graphics in no way hinder the playability of the game.
  The other new additions & changes all seem nice, though many seem only aesthetic. Units are no 
 longer just one image, but now (for footmen at least) seem to be small groups instead. While this 
 is only a visual change it is nice & makes fights between units look kewler. Religion, while again 
 not having the same apparent world changing qualities it has had in RL, still makes for an interesting 
 addition to the game. The deepening of the civics options is quite a big leap frpm the old way 
 of just choosing government types (which naturally progressed from depotism to Democracy) . While 
 this could have been a mistake it has resulted in a simplistic, but more engrossing form of governmental 
 style decision making. Also i love the music, enough said.
  Theres just one thing that perhaps I can reasonably complain about, if it is a complaint. The increasing 
 number of options has resulted in a whole row of new buttons appearing in the top right corner 
 of the screen. To be honest id have preferred it if they had retained the advisor screens from 
 Civ3, which were very helpfull in laying things out. However, it only takes a few extra moments 
 to get to grip with these & then ur back on track. My last complaint is the end turn button. This 
 is a rathr petty thing but it does get to me having to wait for it to change colour from green 
 to red before i can end the turn.
  While the demo hasnt given me a chance to experience everything, being only 100turns, Civ4 seems 
 to be a stunning game by any standards. Any strategy fan should not be without this game. It seems 
 to have maintained its deeply engrossing playing style, while keeing almost as simple as it ever 
 was. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: eoeo123
Rating: 8.4
Date: Dec 16, 2005 3:25 pm PT
Review:  I realy like the civilization games, this one is no exeption. You've got all the same goodies. 
 If you are used to these type of games, you will love that one the best.
  
  A new addition is the fact that you can have multiple religions in one empire. This makes more 
 sense and is more in line with the real world. You can also choose what type of gouverment for 
 all aspects of your economy, military and science venues. This will add a better fealing of realism 
 to play.
  
  Beside the new improvement to civilization, it's still your good old building game. The only down 
 side is the fact that diplomacy still dosn't play a big role in the game. You can always get aways 
 with everything you ''say'' to your enemies or allies if you know what to offer and at what time 
 in the game. But that is true for all empire building games.
  
  Overall, If you have to get an empire building game, this is your choice. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FrankieD1962
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 16, 2005 8:24 am PT
Review:  This game is a relationship killer! No time! Need to take another turn!
  
  This game is HUGE, much larger than conquests. There is so much more to do and see in this latest 
 version of Civilization. Someone really listened to what people were saying on the message boards 
 and in the communities and they really came through with by far the best Civilization release to 
 date.
  
  It can be a little overwhelming at first even for seasoned pro's like myself. It is a GOOD kind 
 of overwhelming as there is a great deal of anticipation to see all the new sights and gameplay 
 abilities. I have played Civ3 and Conquests almost daily since they were released. I have played 
 single player for hundreds and hundreds of hours. 
  
  I have tried online and even with my broadband connection I hated the problems I encountered so 
 I stuck with single player. Civ IV seems to have a much better online experience so I will give 
 it a try.
  
  I started out late in the series with Civ3, then I got Civ3 Conquests and now this the Holy Grail. 
 This game is stunning to watch and is amazing to play. Almost every gripe I had on the past two 
 titles have disappeared! 
  
  The other thing that has disappeared is my sleeping!
  
  Thanks Sid! You ROCK!
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: zoem
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 16, 2005 6:44 am PT
Review:  If you want to leave all that surrounds you buy this game... with this game family, school , work... it's 
 all nothing. You will often find yourself playing this, game no matter what happens around you. 
 This game is very addictive and I recommend it to everyone!!! If you want to leave all that surrounds 
 you buy this game... with this game family, school , work... it's all nothing. You will often find 
 yourself playing this, game no matter what happens around you. This game is very addictive and 
 I recommend it to everyone!!! If you want to leave all that surrounds you buy this game... with 
 this game family, school , work... it's all nothing. You will often find yourself playing this, 
 game no matter what happens around you. This game is very addictive and I recommend it to everyone!!! If 
 you want to leave all that surrounds you buy this game... with this game family, school , work... it's 
 all nothing. You will often find yourself playing this, game no matter what happens around you. 
 This game is very addictive and I recommend it to everyone!!! If you want to leave all that surrounds 
 you buy this game... with this game family, school , work... it's all nothing. You will often find 
 yourself playing this, game no matter what happens around you. This game is very addictive and 
 I recommend it to everyone!!! If you want to leave all that surrounds you buy this game... with 
 this game family, school , work... it's all nothing. You will often find yourself playing this, 
 game no matter what happens around you. This game is very addictive and I recommend it to everyone!!! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rtorresrangel
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 15, 2005 7:29 am PT
Review:  My first PC game was civilization 1, and of course i loved it, some years later civ 2 came, and 
 thats probably the game i finished more times, finished every cenerio i could find, although i 
 never ended the game in Deity mode : (
  
  In December i gave myself this present, Civilization IV, DAMN! what a game :) Everyhing in the 
 game was improved (I didn't play civ 3) , from the graphics to the gameplay, the details of your 
 civilization, distinguishing them in religion, type of government, special units, etc, and of course, 
 the usual city development, growing bigger, stronger and healthier, now even your units improve 
 after battles giving them specified advantages, like attacking cities, better defense in forests, 
 etc ...
  
  All of these little things, apart from the awsome graphics/music and new interface, makes it the 
 2005 perfect strategy game, and probably a game to remember in the forthcoming years. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: roadwarrior9
Rating: 3
Date: Dec 14, 2005 3:06 pm PT
Review:  What is the big deal? The game is very slow, very boring, and the AI not challenging. I read all 
 the reviews and gave it a shot. Definitely not worth the fifty bucks. I love strategy games of 
 all sorts and this one is weak to say the least. The fact that Liberalism is one of the higher 
 level researches is pathetic. Communism and facism is high on the list as well. Did the people 
 who designed the game have it out for the US or what? The military character matchups are a joke 
 with panzers able to lose to knights or some other technical goofiness. Do yourself a favor and 
 wait til its on the cheap to test it out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nasturtium
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 14, 2005 6:52 am PT
Review:  I was thoroughly impressed with the improved graphics. Every gamer loves eye candy and this game 
 has nothing short of spectacular improvements. Also, they've taken an already terrific game and 
 tweaked it yet again for a very polished finished product. I especially enjoyed the ability to 
 decide what types of improvements to make on my troops. I like the idea of creating an entire platoon 
 of very defensive troops for the homestead and huge brigade of pumped up soldiers for the front 
 line. There's also plenty of new buildings and wonders to allow multiple for various strategies 
 Anyone that's a fan of the civilization series must add this one to their collection. Happy Gaming! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Play_Stationz
Rating: 9.3
Date: Dec 13, 2005 8:28 pm PT
Review:  When this game launch in somewhere in October, i did not hesitate to get myself one of this great 
 game. I have played Civilization III and the game was great, totally great and hoping that they have 
 Civilization IV. This game is nearly the same as the last time one but this time, faster. Ya aint 
 gonna wait and see your worker doing all the stuff like last time. This time, it is a very fast pace 
 game. The graphic of this game is great and whats more, this game is not only about war, it is also 
 about the peace in the world, depends on how you want to win your game. Nothing have change on the 
 gameplay, just as normal as Civilization III. But anyway, this game is great and i recommend to those 
 like to plat Roller Coaster Tycoon. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: coldfyre_99
Rating: 8.6
Date: Dec 13, 2005 11:12 am PT
Review:  I didn't really think that the religion added that much to it. In all the different games that 
 I played, the religion never really altered how I had to play, no matter if a religion spread to 
 my city, or I discovered it. The game did feel a lot faster paced though, almost like I was rushing 
 through history. I enjoyed the slower pace of the old Civ games better. Combat was still frustrating 
 at times, such as when the archers in a city could defeat my attacking force of marines. All in 
 all, still a great game. If you have played a Civ game in the past, pick this one up to, you will 
 enjoy what it has to offer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: th316
Rating: 9.4
Date: Dec 12, 2005 8:14 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay - The gameplay is not much different than any other turn based game. If you have played 
 any of the other Civ games or Alpha Centari you should have an idea of what to expect. If you played 
 Civ3/PTW you will recognize alot of things in Civ4. Where Civ4 differs though is the concepts are 
 any where from slightly different to completely different. A couple of things I've noticed so far 
 are the effects of artillery and effect the barbarians have on the game especially once you start 
 advancing in difficulty. At about the Noble difficulty just getting out of the blocks can be a 
 challange. 
  
  Graphics - The graphics are just ridiculous. Awesome 3d effects and detail is killer. I think if 
 you haven't played a turned based game before, you really need to to fully appreciate the graphics 
 of this game. 
  
  Sound - Great sound, Spock is your narrator, and the music has a soothing effect which makes time 
 really fly bye.
  
  The value versus fun factor will make this a great buy. I bought Civ3 and play the world when they 
 came out and played them all the way up to the launch of Civ4. I don't see Civ4 being any different. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MADDOX007
Rating: 9.2
Date: Dec 12, 2005 7:39 pm PT
Review:  Great game. The graphics are awesome (if you aren't playing on my computer) . I would say buy it 
 if you have all the prerequisites. It is really addictive. For once the commercials do not lie 
 it is truly addictive. If I had a drug it would be this. The sound is fine (if you aren't playing 
 it on my friend Austin's computer) . I hope that you feel the same way for it is something that 
 if you miss you are truly a sad person. = ( But that does not matter. I would buy the game if I 
 had the money but I don't so I hope you do. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kalerd
Rating: 9.3
Date: Dec 12, 2005 7:18 pm PT
Review:  Going From Civ I, and skipping the many remakes, sequels, and jumping right into Civ IV was a bit 
 overwhelming, especially for one that has been blowing headcrabs away, and managing chars on Guild 
 Wars. But I can truly say that HL2 and GW will be getting quite dusty for a bit with this one. 
 
  
  Graphical World Map is identical to Sids Meiers PIrates! (released last year) . Combat and cut scene 
 movies need immediate attention. Game would not run when I first loaded it up, I DL'ed the patch, 
 and game ran fine except for laggy cut-scene movies. 
  
  The sound and in-game music is fulfilling, many recognizable classical tunes, and a catchy opening 
 song, from Disney's Lion King (similar, not identical) Americans speak American, Germans speak 
 German, and the Mongols speak (do they have to talk when fileting everyone) .
  
  The game will turn off any newbies to RTS (turn-based) , but for anyone who can sit for hours and 
 play sim-city, C&C, or Empire Earth, this game will make you lose sleep. Nice tutorial to help 
 you learn the basics, then its up tp your own strategy.
  
  6 ways to win any given game
  1. Highest Score (usually automatic with any of these 5)
  2. Conquest (you kill everything)
 
  3. Domination (you have 75% world pop. and land area)
  4. Space Race (first to research spaceship, build it, launch it)
  5. Diplomatic (the U. N. votes 
 you a World Leader (vote between current civilizations based on pop.)
  6. Culture (3 cities with Extremely High Culture) very difficult on higher difficulty levels.
 
  
  There is always something new to try, to build, or to conquer, so stop reading this, and either 
 go buy the game, or waste more time sleeping. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheOneCow
Rating: 9.6
Date: Dec 12, 2005 2:06 pm PT
Review:  Well, just because I'm sick of reviewers flaming this game because it sucks as an RTS: WELL THAT'S 
 NORMAL YOU **** BECAUSE IT IS NOT A ****ING RTS!!!! THIS IS A TURN-BASED GAME AND IF YOU DON'T 
 LIKE THIS STYLE DON'T BUY IT!!!
  
  Turn-based games demand patience, reflexion, etc, all qualities that AoE and Starcraft fans profoudly 
 lack because they like fast, intense stupid action. This is why they flame intelligent games when 
 they come because it makes them realize their own stupidity.
  
  Now I would never flame any good rts that comes out. I played plenty of AoE and Starcraft. But 
 hey, Civilization is a completely different series.
  
  Gameplay has been immensely improved, so a generous and yet insufficient 10/10 there.
  
  Well, 
 this release clearly have some neat graphics though they are a bit weird, I'll give them 7/10.
 
  
  Sound is neat in my opinion, the music is GREAT! Classicals of each epoch, now you're talking! 
 10/10.
  
  Value, well, what about "infinite replayability"? 10/10
  
  And Tilt is 10/10 too because I wasn't expecting as much changes. This is a whole new game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nm15
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 12, 2005 10:26 am PT
Review:  Everything about this game is better. You just have to play the old and the new to appreciate all 
 the wonderful upgrades. There are so many more wonders to build, it's pretty much impossible for 
 one civ to build all of them, like in previous releases. The Military Unit upgrades are great, 
 Civ 3 had no ability to upgrade the units and no where near as complicated as Alpha Cent upgrades. 
 Tons of new resources too. How bout I trade you some Bananas for Uranium? The learning curve for 
 this game depends completely on if you've played a Civ game before. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: skshrews
Rating: 8.8
Date: Dec 11, 2005 5:06 pm PT
Review:  After suffering a very disappointing Civ III, I ordered Civ IV. I was then disappointed to find 
 Civ IV initially wouldn't run on my Fujitsu 6210 ( a 2 year old laptop) . I was thinking about returning 
 it, but the 1.09 patch allowed the game to run on my Intel graphics chip, even though I get a message 
 saying my hardware is "below specifications."
  
  It was worth the wait. The concepts of playing Civ IV are similar to previous Civ games: avoid 
 attacking unless you have overwhelming force, try to keep at the head of the research race, explore 
 as much and early as you can. 
  
  The cultural/religious aspects add a whole new dimension with "fighting" your neighbors. Grab a 
 religion early, as you can generate a lot of benefits to your society.
  
  The 3D graphics aren't a noticeable addition to the game, until you start zooming in and out of 
 the map. Individual wonders and buildings are visible, mining cars pull in and out of mines, windmills 
 turn on hills. Then you can zoom out and view the whole world as a globe.
  
  The help "pop-ups" are ubiquitous, and make the game almost playable without the rulebook.
  
 
  The "great persons" feature is a learning experience. I thought I knew history, but some of the 
 individuals sent me scrambling to my encyclopedia. It adds yet another subtlety to game play.
 
  
  The best game in the CIv series. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: valizotha
Rating: 9.8
Date: Dec 11, 2005 4:16 pm PT
Review:  Flawless. That's the first word I've got to say of, what I think, is the best strategy game in 
 history, flawless. Remember as a child went you to get something new with your parents, and that 
 something turned out to completely suck, well this is not that case. Civilization IV brings a new 
 taste into strategy gaming, a new era you might say in which games won't bore you. 
  
  In Civilization you start as the founder of a nation which you will have to bring through poverty, 
 rough politics, and war; the final goal for Civilization is global domination and although it seems 
 immoral you'll love it!
  
  The game plants itself on three different speeds, each being slower and longer than the other, 
 you start in the year 3000 b. C. and in sequence of turns, and strategy based movements, you'll 
 move through months, years, you'll move through time. In every age you begin discovering new technologies, 
 founding new cities, and making armies of colossal proportion; you'll have allies, enemies, and 
 with them you can trade and negotiate for the good of your Empire, Kingdom or Nation and lead it 
 towards the peak of Earth, to create the most astonishing union on history.
  
  For me this game not only represents a sequel to past award winner, or just another fine strategy 
 game, no, for me it is the best strategy game ever. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dragonwarrior87
Rating: 9.6
Date: Dec 11, 2005 1:39 pm PT
Review:  I have had a lot of fun playing this game. Because of the wide assortment of leaders to chose from, 
 there is great replay value. Also you can have a lot of fun customizing your game for a short game 
 or a long one. Because, its turn-based, u don't need two pc to play multiplayer. 
  
  There is a pretty significant learning curve. The tutorial took me over an hour. The tutorial just 
 teaches the basics. it takes a lot of practice to get good at this game.
  
  As far as requirements goes, this game is pretty standard. Most people could prolly get away with 
 playing this on any pc made in the last 3 years. The graphics aren't really high end but they look 
 great. I play it on my laptop which has a stock 128 MB video card. You might want to have a fair 
 amount of memory.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: xyriel
Rating: 7.6
Date: Dec 11, 2005 11:07 am PT
Review:  With such high reviews, I was expecting something more from Civ 4. I have played all 3 previous 
 versions, including Alpha Centauri. Honestly, the gaming experience in Civ 4 is exactly the same 
 as the previous ones. Maybe a few more units, the addition of "Great Persons" and "Religion", better 
 graphics, but all in all, I felt I was playing Civ 3. 
  
  For those who never played Civilization, you'll loose a lot of sleep on this game. For experienced 
 Civ players (and a lot of them gave good rating to this game) , I have a hard time figuring what 
 you found so great.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: BlackVBlack
Rating: 6.2
Date: Dec 10, 2005 11:55 pm PT
Review:  Ok, when i first read the gamespot review i immediately went and got the game. To my grave disappointment, 
 I was in store for a hell lot of problems. the first time i ran the game, it crashed, restarting 
 my system. I was puzzled since i have just reinstalled my windows three days earlier and wasnt 
 expecting any conflicts. Turns out my friends, that the game is totally unstable. It contains tons 
 of bugs (both major and minor) ranging from simple audio crashes to total system crashes. The game 
 would often jump into the familiar "blue screen of death" every twenty minutes of gameplay or so 
 and restart ones system. Personally, i can live with all the minor bugs (French tech tree, missing 
 audio, balancing problems, cut scene crashes, occasional slowdowns, game map becoming transparent 
 etc) but i simply cannot help but feel frustrated when the damn thing restarts my pc every 20 minutes! 
 Apart from the bugs there are other problems as well. The game "looks" unfinished. Notice the blocky, 
 ugly CIVILIZATION IV title (which is in a very bad resolution) that covers the upper part of your 
 screen when you enter. The civilopedia isnt helpful at all, its often very hard to utilize it 
 since the right mouse button doesnt seen to bring its menu up on certain occasions. Even when you 
 access it, the civilopedia fails to give you detailed information on the topic of ones choice... 
 In the civilopedia itself there is a list of units that contains their so called 3d models. These 
 models suck, big time, most of the time you see a poorly detailed pikeman or a soldier standing 
 in an equally undetailed endless green field. The game conatins lots of cosmetic defects like those 
 i have mentioned. It seems that firaxis that doesnt care about the quality of its products. Keep 
 in mind that these bugs are painfully apparent, and the developers couldnt have missed their 
 existence. It is clear that the game was released with the bugs intentionally, simply to satisfy 
 the company's dead line. In some cases, the game cds themselves were misnumbered, causing lots 
 of confusion among the games owners. Almost every aspect of the game IS BUGGY!!!
  Multiplayer, singleplayer, even the cutscenes! If you dont believe me check out the forums on 
 the net. There are thousands of people that are having problems with this half assed piece of software. 
 It is clear that patches would be released to improve the game and fix all its bugs. The latest 
 patch takes about 25 megs, so imagine downloading an extra 300 megs worth of patches just to play 
 the game you bought over a year ago ( i presume the games defects would be fixed in about a year 
 or so through patches) . 
  
  In conclusion:
  The nice number in the info section of the game may state its a 1.00 version, but its truly a beta 
 or dare I say GAMMA version of the game?! This half assed game costs 50 bucks and it isnt even 
 finished? UBER RIPPOFF!
  Overall the game is quite a good one, but you wont be able to play it since itl crash every time 
 you try to. My advice is this: Download the damn thing and dont buy it, these bastards dont deserve 
 our money. Download it so the sales would hit rock bottom and cause the developers to think twice 
 before trying to screw with us gamers. I have lost all respect for Sid...
  The game would indeed be a great one, WHEN ITS FINISHED!
  What is happening to the gaming world? 
 First Civ4 is released with bugs then X3? Both of em are almost unpleyable in their current state. 
 Something is happening in the gaming world..... and it stinks..... make a stand comrades.... dont 
 buy it.....
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: fzdriver
Rating: 9.6
Date: Dec 10, 2005 9:14 pm PT
Review:  I've played Civilization 4 for many hours and I'm still very impressed with the many new features. 
 This game's replay value is one of its best attributes. You can set it up any way you prefer and 
 play the type of game you like. I haven't played any of the scripted scenarios yet because I'm 
 still addicted to the regular game play mode.
  
  Basically, the regular game lets you select a certain civilization or people from which you can 
 start a country. There are a number of ways to achieve victory. I usually go for military domination 
 but once, I won through the space race option. There are so many different strategies you can use 
 to achieve victory and you can change those strategies mid-game. 
  
  To start a game, you get a settler to build your first city and some kind of explorer or warrior 
 unit to go along with it. Once a city is built, you'll start to produce other units and buildings 
 from which to strengthen the city. As you progress; religion, government, commerce and other features 
 become available to strengthen (or sometimes weaken) your country. Building more cities obviously 
 increases the size of your country. 
  
  There are so many things happening during the game that it's hard to explain them until you've 
 actually had the chance to play it. Civilization 4 however, does a very good job at explaining 
 things along the way. Because of this feature, learning the game is half the fun. I've been playing 
 Civilization for years, (since Civilization 2) , and I'm sill learning how to build better civilizations. 
 That's why I like it, REPLAY VALUE! This is something many games lack. 
  
  The graphics in Civilization 4 are very good and the sounds are also excellent. I have an older 
 computer, (Athlon 2500 with a cheap Nvidia 5700 graphics card) , and the game plays quite well with 
 many of the graphic options turned up. People with slower computers should still be able to play 
 the game without too many issues.
  
  It's hard to find any negatives about Civilization 4. Obviously, if you're into fast action (i. e. 
 Call of Duty) type games, you might not like this game. It is turn-based which means you play it 
 like a board game. You move a few pieces and make a few changes and then end your turn. Your opponents 
 then do the same on their turn. This may sound dull at first, but what keeps you into the game 
 is that you're constantly thinking about and monitoring everything that's happening around you. 
 All I can say for those who haven't played it; don't knock it until you've tried it!
  
  My only complaint about Civilization 4, as well as other PC games, is the copy-protection features 
 built into the CD/DVD's. I know game makers have to protect against piracy but I really HATE having 
 to dig up my CD/DVD just to play the game. There's got to be a better way!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ElBarto111393
Rating: 9.3
Date: Dec 10, 2005 9:05 am PT
Review:  This is my first Civ game, and it rocks! I just got a new video card, so the graphics are incredible. 
 At times, it can be a little boring because there's often nothing going on. But when you get into 
 war, that's when it starts off great. My least favorite leader is Saladin. I just plain don't like 
 him. Anyway, the leader personalities are great. I thought they would all be the same, but no, 
 they're all different. I strongly recommend this game to video game lovers. All out, I love this 
 game. Civ IV is an extremely awesome game that you should get! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: james-lee85
Rating: 9.3
Date: Dec 9, 2005 5:01 pm PT
Review:  Well I have played pretty much every game to get released in the past year; you name it I have 
 played it. There is one problem with the game that I found however and that is its simply too 
 addictive, the replay value is what I just have to call extreme.
  
  I would like to point out that the graphics are superb, and the integrated Modding is really good 
 for those who want to create scenarios and so on. Replay value is perfect, get bored with the Romans 
 move onto Germany, too difficult then play a custom game. 
  
  I have been playing this for a short time now but all I can say is that I will continue to pick 
 this game up again and again.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: BrettEastman
Rating: 9.4
Date: Dec 9, 2005 2:35 pm PT
Review:  well i have been playing this nonstop since i got it i dont exactly keep track of the hours i play 
 i put 100 or more because it is just that good. the difficulty is perfect if your a newb you can 
 put it on the easiest setting and conquer and if your an expert you can put it on the hardest setting 
 and be conquered. learning curve is easy if you have played any civ games before and if you havent 
 there is a good tutorial but it will still take a while to get the hang of it. my suggestion is 
 try something new everytime you play. 
  
  i gave the gameplay a nine because i played the tutorial for kicks and thought that it did not 
 help much and the civilopedia is very crappy and i was mad about that but otherwise there is so 
 much to do you forget about that stuff. 
  
  the graphics were amazing and the sound was amazing the soundrack for the game rocks and was very 
 entertaining
  
  every cent i paid for the game was worth it i have had no second thoughts on the game it is worth 
 buying as soon as possible. 
  
  i only gave it a nine on the reviewers tilt because of the bugs it has they are crashing the game 
 for me at bad times but otherwise i suggest people to buy this as soon as possible. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: crueber
Rating: 9.4
Date: Dec 9, 2005 12:48 pm PT
Review:  As a frequent player of RPGs and sports games, this is my first purchase in recent years into the 
 strategy genre. It didn't disappoint.
  
  The game is fairly intuiitve and easy to pick up the basics, so learning curve is fairly quick 
 to get in and start playing. That said, there are so many details to the game, you could spend 
 hours exploring and learning those fine details. This is a good thing... easy to pick up but will 
 grow with you as you want.
  
  As a turn-based strategy game, it's fairly easy to put it down and pick it up where you left off. 
 Unfortunately, that's easy said than done... there's always just one more turn!!! .... as my wife 
 can attest.
  
  Great game. I look forward to trying out the multiplay/online features. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: harikari1227
Rating: 1.8
Date: Dec 9, 2005 10:16 am PT
Review:  Dont waste your money on this horrible game. I made the guy at EB Games give me my money back for 
 this **** cause i said it was defective. Dont get me wrong , I'm a big fan of turned based strategy 
 but this game is garbage compared to other titles out there such as Rome: Total War. 
  
  Here are my complaints from GOOD/BAD/UGLY:
  
  T he Good: 
  1) Sounds and voice acting thanks 
 to Leonard Nimoy. Id say music but I kept getting that damn African **** stuck in my head when 
 i start the game. Funny how there is African music but no African civilzations in the game.
  
  2) Found it hilarious when I was Ghandi and started slavery. Then in later eras I continually 
 nuked the **** outta other countries. That alone might have been worth $50.
  
  3) Imformative tutorial -even though i had to stare at Sids Meiers ugly mug the whole damn time. 
 
  
  4) I liked the portraits of the civ leaders. Very well done.
  
  5) Easy to use interface. Clean and uncluttered as some turn based strategy can be. 
  
  The 
 Bad:
  
  1) Graphics are just plain terrible. 3D my ass. For the system requirements this game fails to 
 deliver.
  
  2) AI is a joke on the easier settings, impossibly hard around medium difficulty and cheats on 
 the harder settings. Cheats.
  
  3) Battles are less than satisfying, watching the same 3 units attack the other in the same 3-4 
 patterns of attack. There is no stategy at all, its all numbers and rock paper scissors. Oh and 
 btw, how the **** can ****ing musketeers stop ****ing tanks?! WTF.
  
  4) The AI's constant diplomatic popups remind me of my antivirus warnings.
  
  5) Nuclear warheads 
 (ICBMs) dont do jack ****.
  
  The Ugly:
  
  1) Had to download a patch just to play the game I spent $50 on. The disk 1 and 2 were improperly 
 labeled and this game froze my $5000 pc when i was installing. All very bad signs...
  
  2) Why is the USA a civilzation? We did not fit the qualifications till 1776 AD. Kinda weird to 
 see FDR battling it out with Genghis Khan since American civilzation wont start for another 600 
 yrs. If they're gonna include the USA why not native americans or some of the various afican kingdoms? 
 In my opinion there isnt enough civilizations to choose from, cause they dont differ that much 
 cosmeticly from another, (every villager and military unit looks the same) with the exception of 
 one or two speacial units and a portrait of a leader, so why not add as many as you want? Its not 
 like they have to change anything, they never really made any of the civs unique to begin with.
 
  
  3) Game is over way too fast. Every time I'm ready to attack with my best troops its time to upgrade 
 all over again. No options to stay in certain eras or stop advancing and fight for awhile like 
 in other games of this type. I coulnt even get 4 cities connected and working without a thousand 
 years going by. Cities dont take thousands of years to build and neither do armies. Why cant I 
 create an army in the same year I want to construct a building? Why cant i add more workers to 
 projects to speed up the build times? Nothing makes sense. Time was flying but I was not having 
 fun. Eras come and go way to fast and nothing of importance really gets acomplished.
  
  4) Religion has no real purpose, at least not one worth mentioning on the back of the box as a 
 "NEW" feature. Also on the box "features" that are let downs: RTS style gameplay which this has 
 none of and the quote "play at your own pace"- stop lying already!
  
  5) And finally: Why does the game stop at 2050? Its a video game. Let me at least have some fun 
 please. 
  
  Last Word: Game is very buggy, and seems rushed and unfinished. Has more room for ideas then it 
 has applications for. Could have been sooo much better. Will sell well anyways to the hardcore 
 dumbass civaholics that dont know what makes a good game cause they've never played one. Will get 
 some crappy expansion that will cost those morons another $30 for the same rehashed garbage. Ultimately 
 will join the rest of the ****ty Civs games in the bargain bin for $9.99 at your local Walmart. 
 Like I said in the title: Only PC game I have ever returned.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: jonjj2003
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 8, 2005 9:23 pm PT
Review:  If you're a fan of the incredibly addictive Civilization strategy series and haven't bought Civilization 
 IV yet, you can probably stop reading now to go buy the game. Civ IV makes plenty of great changes 
 and additions to just about every aspect of the hazardously habit-forming strategy blueprint that 
 famed designer Sid Meier and his talented team have made famous the world over, from combat to 
 diplomacy to research to production to winning the space race. And just like with previous games 
 in the series, Civ IV's varied and addictive gameplay offers the same tantalizing siren's song 
 that will tempt you to take "just one more turn." Fundamentally, this is a much-improved version 
 of the same Civ games we've all been playing and desperately trying to put down for years. And 
 that's far from a bad thing. In fact, it's an awesome thing. 
  
  
  It's time to get hooked all over again on the addictive Civilization formula. Get those alarm clocks 
 ready. 
  If you're familiar with the Civilization series, then you're already well aware that they've traditionally 
 been turn-based strategy games that let you play as the political leader of one of the world's 
 nations (such as Gandhi of India or Julius Caesar of Rome) in a fictitious bid to take over the 
 globe, starting from the Stone Age and continuing right on through to the Space Age by having a 
 lone settler unit build your first city on the way to establishing whatever advanced society you 
 choose to design over the course of dozens of turns. The series gives you plenty of ways to do 
 this, such as conquering your neighbors, researching advanced technology, or, in Civilization III 
 (and IV) , creating the most cultured society on the planet. It's this great variety that helps 
 give Civ IV the same alarmingly addictive quality its predecessors carried. And thanks to its many 
 improvements, major and minor, and its greater emphasis on strategy over bean-counting, Civ IV 
 isn't just as good as Civ has ever been... it's better. 
  
  Like in previous games, your political leader has two special traits that will influence his or 
 her reign, though all the game's traits are new, such as "organized," which cuts down on maintenance 
 costs, or "expansive," which generates bonus health in cities and helps hasten growth and expansion. 
 And Civilization IV fundamentally offers the same goals, but in a much more evolved, more strategic, 
 and ultimately more rewarding manner. And each of these goals comes with many more options, which 
 should open the game up to players with busy schedules... even if it may still seem overwhelming 
 to beginners. 
  
  The Civ series' gameplay has several components, and almost every single one of them is improved 
 in Civ IV. For instance, the series' combat system, which pits different military units against 
 one another based on relative unit strength and technology, has been changed to a "strength" system 
 that seems more intuitive. Units that are greatly advanced will have a clear advantage over more-primitive 
 ones (to avoid the commonly cited, though rare, case of a tribal spearman defeating a tank in previous 
 games) , and military units in general have many different upgrades they can earn as they receive 
 experience points and gain power levels. In addition, artillery has been tweaked to be much more 
 useful. It can bombard targets, such as enemy cities, to lower defenses and to deal collateral 
 damage to large "stacks" of armies. These improvements don't make battles all that much more complicated 
 , but they do add more depth to combat, since both attackers and defenders have more factors to 
 consider. 
  
  Civ IV has also improved on the way diplomacy works. While you can still make nice with your neighbors 
 (and you can even win the game with a diplomatic victory condition) , you have more options than 
 just trading goods, cities, technologies, and/or relations. You can attempt to influence your neighbors 
 to make war or peace with other neighbors, and you can even fence everyone out of your backyard 
 using the game's new "open borders" system. In previous games, neighboring nations could send their 
 city-building settlers and their soldiers wandering across your nation, free to declare war on 
 your vulnerable home cities and worker civilians unless you complained strenuously (which sometimes 
 caused them to declare war anyway) . In Civ IV, the new border system means that no units from any 
 other country can enter yours unless you have agreed to open borders with that particular country... or 
 unless you're at war with that particular country. This is a godsend for defensive players who 
 prefer to hang back to develop an economic, scientific, or cultural infrastructure without fear 
 of ambush. However, even this new addition is balanced, since keeping your borders locked up tightly 
 and never coming to your neighbors' aid doesn't make many friends. Other nations actually remember 
 your actions and are poorly disposed if you refuse them too many favors. 
  
  
  The new religion system doesn't fundamentally change the gameplay when all is said and done, but 
 it's certainly interesting. 
  You can make neighboring cities more apt to like you by adopting the same religion. One of Civ 
 IV's brand-new features is the religion system, which is an intriguing addition, even if it isn't 
 crucial to your success. The game's new religion system adds seven new creeds to the game, each 
 of which is tied to a specific technology and each of which can influence your cities' culture-producing 
 temple structures and missionaries. However, aside from the facts that some religions become available 
 earlier in the game than others (since they're tied to earlier technologies) and that different 
 religions lead to a different unique building (more on that later) , all religions are pretty similar. 
 Your overriding goal, should you choose to pursue a religious path, is to have all your cities -- and 
 your rival nations' cities -- subscribe to the same faith: yours. Religious buildings also produce 
 a bonus to culture, which is helpful if you're pursuing a strategy of rapid expansion (since cities 
 with high culture automatically expand to take up more of the map, just like in Civ III) or of 
 cultural victory. But there's no religion-based victory condition, and aside from these bonuses, 
 religion isn't a hugely influential addition to the game. And it doesn't actually need to be a 
 part of your strategy. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Elksta
Rating: 7.7
Date: Dec 8, 2005 8:20 pm PT
Review:  Some good changes for civ fans and some bad ones too.... maps improvements are good, as well as 
 the graphics and movies but from a game perspective, there are some drawbacks. Clearly some of 
 the Ai advantage is gone, as opposed to the other civs always completing a wonder 3 turns before 
 you. This makes the game a little too easy compared to earlier editions, so experienced players 
 might want to play on harder levels. Game concepts like making the bombard effects affect other 
 units in a space is definitely a plus, as they were pretty useless in earlier editions. Definitely 
 addictive, and only to be played with time to spare as once you get going you can't stop. The instructions 
 are not as clear as they should be about the effect of great leaders and religion, and my french 
 tech tree is a little hard to understand, even with 4 years of french!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SWRC
Rating: 9.4
Date: Dec 8, 2005 10:10 am PT
Review:  I have played a lot of strategy games but somehow managed to never play the granddaddy of them 
 all until now. I now understand the effects from lack of sleep very well. The game itself is great 
 as it presents you with numerous degrees of difficult and various ways to achieve victory. If you 
 are a fan of strategy games you will certainly get stuck in the "one more turn" mode and should 
 think to bring a cooler full of snacks and beverages to make sure you can stay there for as long 
 as possible. The multiplayer is also fun which surprised me since I figured the gap between turns 
 would be just too darn long. With the turn timer it makes things keep moving at a good clip.
  
  The one downside to the game is you really should have a little more than the just the required 
 specs. I met the requirements but had problems with the late game and the wonder videos where the 
 computer would just shut down and restart. Since then I upgraded my video card to a geforce 5800x 
 and the problems have since gone away. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ranger166
Rating: 9.6
Date: Dec 7, 2005 10:59 pm PT
Review:  I reserved this game before it came out ot get the "special" gift that came with it. I got it for 
 my wife for christmas it's one of the only video games that she will play so whenever i get a chance 
 to get her a game and protect my ability to play i do it. I have played the demo, and it is realy 
 sweet. It apears that Firaxis has made alot of adjustments and improvements to make a great game 
 even better. I cannot wait to play the full version. I especially like the fact that they put the 
 online play in this version 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kastigador
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 7, 2005 6:39 pm PT
Review:  There's a lot of good things about this game. Clearly there's a tremendous amount of depth to it 
 as well. It's clearly the most polished and straight forward of any games in this genre. I'm sure, 
 given the time needed to finish a match, it's an addictive experience as well for those who can 
 enjoy it. However, this strategic style of gameplay is not for anyone but the true strategy turn-based 
 gamer. So if you're someone who has doubts, you ought to try before you buy.
  
  Before you dismiss me as a person who lacks open-mindedness, I have to say I was truly surprised 
 this game never managed to get me excited. I've tried new genres before after seeing stellar reviews. 
 That's why I'm still playing World of Warcraft to this day. It's just that this game doesn't break 
 any molds and it certainly doesn't reach out in a non-traditional sense to gamers who like some 
 excitement and action to their gameplay. I did the whole entire tutorial and inevitably a few 2 
 hour matches with friends. It was truly a let down. It is often frustratingly slow, unevenly paced, 
 and the learning curve is unreal. Granted, you can hobble along and get by okay, but their are 
 way too many reasons to dislike this demand to be a civilopedia junky. If I wanted to spend all 
 this time learning how to play something properly, I'd be a flight sim junkie. At least the time 
 spent reading up on how to fly a commercial jet liner could potentially lead to a more productive 
 set of general knowledge.
  
  Beyond that, I'm not going to hash out the point by point analysis of my ratings, but I can certainly 
 say that I don't believe a game with such a specifically scoped audience deserves such a high rating. 
 There should be some kind of consideration that if the average open minded Joe can't find it enjoyable 
 after a good try, than it hasn't done enough. Greatest game of genre perhaps, but hardly a great 
 title of the year that anyone can enjoy. 
  
  No more turns. I'm definitely done playing this for good. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kiwiguy38
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 7, 2005 10:09 am PT
Review:  W hen i first started Civ 4 thought it was going an all round great game!
  But there is somethings missing, one being that the graphics are poor.
  winning the game is boring 
 ! nothing exciting happens then!
  plus for the city view you cant even see much.
  If anyone looking for a very good stratgey game ,
  and wanting to buy Civ 4 look esle where.
 
  
  the pop up menus in the game are annoying.
  rendered wonders look terrible!
  units some of them don't even do anything!
  priests arent they surpose to convert a city?
  
 i put a priest in one enemy city , couldn't do a thing! with him.
  Civ 4 needs to be redesigned before being called an excellent game.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: allnamestaken
Rating: 5.8
Date: Mar 11, 2006 5:50 pm PT
Review:  First let me tell everyone, I've been playing Civ games since numero 2. Yeah, missed out on number 
 1, but whatever. Anyways, when I started the open ended-ness was what got me hooked and kept me 
 playing. I have always been a fan of the Civ series and will continue to support Sid Meier and 
 his future efforts. 
  
  Well, now that the disclaimers all done I guess I can get down to the uh, constructive criticism. 
 To tell you the truth, this latest Civ has lost almost ALL of it's open ended nature. Seriously, 
 the game tells you the best place to put EVERYTHING, all you have to do (very carefully mind you) 
 is point the mouse, wait, here comes the hard part, and click the tile you want the action to be 
 done at. I'm serious, that's all that's to the game. I'm sure you can turn this off, but in a game 
 like this, there shouldn't be a BEST place to put anything, it should depend on your strategy. 
 Which convieniently gets me to my second point.
  
  So much for all that large scale diplomatic planning we were expecting! The first time you meat 
 any nation in the game, the choices you have are: "Your head would look good on a pole (WAR) " or 
 "There shall be peace in our time!" Of course this wouldn't be sooo bad if soon after in the game, 
 more choices would arise. Well, again no that doesn't really happen. Even AFTER you discover some 
 TECH that alows you to trade technology with other nations, many times they won't trade with you. 
 For really no reason at all. It really is quite ridiculous. Oh, and those huge personalities we 
 heard about? Where the hell did they go? Every nation basically says the exact same thing. 
  
  UGH, I could go on and on, religions, battles, ships with weird disc bug. As you've probably 
 noticed, my anger and grammar have increasingly gotten worse through the duration of the article. 
 
  It just makes me so angry seeing a CIV game end up this way. Oh so linear and boring. 
  
  I must say, the main screen music is really cool...
  
  -_- -_- 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cfwhy
Rating: 8.1
Date: Dec 6, 2005 7:10 pm PT
Review:  Well, I myself think that Civ III is even better than Civ IV. This is because Civ III takes a slower 
 time frame and feels a little more rewarding if you played it a little longer.
  
  In Civ IV, I actually feel being played by the game rather than playing the game itself. The very 
 first game I played in Civ IV was only a few hours if it isn't for the loading time and the end 
 game's bog down that makes the game a few more hours a long. It seems like it takes forever to 
 move in the game in an old PC.
  
  Fortunately, it makes up for the good graphics and great soundtrack. One more thing, you'd actually 
 find yourself clicking on the recommended decision a little too much. It feels like you are just 
 being played. But this "recommending feature" is just right for starters. For those who have played 
 the older Civs, you don't actually need to follow the recommendation. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ttoc2u
Rating: 6
Date: Dec 6, 2005 5:45 pm PT
Review:  This is a good game, if you are a fan the of previous civilzations i can see how this would be 
 a great game. I however havent played the last 3 civs, so i spent my first 3 hours of the game 
 just being confused. after that i really started to enjoy the game. but sadly the games take FOREVER, 
 which almost compleetly eliminates the multiplayer option. no one want to go to a lan and play 
 one game for 8 hrs strait and not even come close to finnshing it. now i am a noob but my average 
 game time was about 12hrs thats out of 3 games.... so if ur a fan and you already know what your 
 getting into then pick it up. otherwise.... try to get one of your friends to buy it instead. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CountDrugular
Rating: 5.5
Date: Dec 6, 2005 5:08 pm PT
Review:  Civiliation 4 is lacking in many areas like Hotseat and mulitiplay sure its graphics are nice but 
 its game play isn't up to scatch. First in Hotseat games the 2nd player has an AI in a locked alliance 
 and there is no option to remove the alliance ?bug? even after downloading the lastist patch this 
 still happens which ruins the games experiance, and while playing in Hotseat i find there is no 
 wonder movies or Technology slides for when you find new techs which all previous Civs had, you 
 only get technology found in small writing which is easily missed if your busy looking elsewhere.
 
  The religion aspect isn't exciting i don't like religion to begin with and its useless in game 
 you can play fine with out it. Sure they have made a few Improvements like building farms and diffirent 
 resoures to harvest which gives the game some new life but they lacked on giving us good advisors 
 like Civ 2 its still has the best advisors in the civ serious. 
  I do like how you can select goverments in Civ 4 its a major improvment but when it comes to selecting 
 a country your options are limited i only hope an expansion will fix this adding more Civilitations 
 to pick from. 
  It was good they added a second choice with some leaders but i think they went a bit wrong in some 
 of the selections you make for etc, America George Washingtion or Roservelt
  George is fine but Roservelt? shouldn't it be Abraham Linkin? anyways there could be more smaller 
 Civilitations added like Austrialia or the Swiss or are we just forgotten about as usual. 
  Well i wouldn't give this game a rating of 10 far from it and i don't think that there is a game 
 thats worth a perfect 10 because there are no perfect games in my opinion. This game wasn't what 
 i expected from what some reviews have said, for that i say Don't Believe The Hype because thats 
 all this game is HYPE it could of been alot better but as usual they will rush it to the stores 
 to make some money and not work out problems it may have Beta Testers need to be shot do you even 
 play the game or just get paid to say this game is the best since sliced bread.
  ive said my piece im Out! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DJ-D10
Rating: 8.3
Date: Dec 6, 2005 9:09 am PT
Review:  It's fun for a few rounds, but not really as addictive as you may think at first. As with all other 
 Sid Meier's games the repetitiveness is what wears you down fast.
  
  I didn't get so far as to try the multiplayer aspect of it (yet) , which could breath some more 
 life into the game. Haven't touched it for a few weeks now and don't miss it.
  
  Sound and music is excellent, Sid Meier fans will probably recognise a few sounds there from other 
 games, such as Pirates.
  
  I would have liked to see the diplomatic part worked on a whole lot more. You are faced with the 
 same frustraiting lack of options there for the most part. Instead of really boosting such things, 
 they've chosen to animate the characters.... 
  
  On the whole it fully deserves a grade between 7.5 to 8.5, not much more, certainly not 9.4 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jephyr78
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 5, 2005 1:52 pm PT
Review:  Civilization just keeps getting better and better. The intricacies and nuances of each progressive 
 version are quite obviously tailored by a strong relationship between user feedback and product 
 development. Any frustrations of mine with CIV III were entirely addressed and corrected in this 
 version. Add to that the fabulously improved graphics, sound, and gameplay as well as the new technologies, 
 new units, and new concepts like religion and civics; and you have yourself a masterpiece of a 
 strategy game.
  
  The folks that have designed this game committed themselves to something truly remarkable. Have 
 you ever wondered what it could be like to rule a civilization throughout history. When the game 
 of chess was devised, its creator must have been looking for a way to practice millitary strategy 
 or perhaps simply just to get a taste of what it was like to have the power of a king. Little did 
 he know that such a premise could evolve into a game as intricate as this. Perhaps playing CIV 
 IV is better than actually ruling as a King because you can mess up without dire real-life consequences 
 and you get to experience the whole of history while doing so. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Menz018
Rating: 8.6
Date: Dec 5, 2005 9:20 am PT
Review:  I found it very disappointing that you could not attack enemy aircraft individually, instead you 
 have to take a chance of attacking a city and hope to not be shot down, when i would much rather 
 try my luck of my aircraft against theirs. I also disliked the fact that planes were the only way 
 to bombard units. We all know that naval units can bombard military units as well as destroy specific 
 targets that are within range (farms, mines, roads, etc.) . Also the worker actions, in civ3 i got 
 into the habit of doing all I wanted to a city and telling the worker to automate but not change 
 anything I had already built, but in civ 4 they dont have that automate. Instead they go around 
 changing everything to a windmill and farm. Sure growth is great, aside from the angry citizens 
 caused by it being too crowded, but i need production to build wonders, building, and a military 
 to defend them. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: k4g2001
Rating: 9.7
Date: Dec 18, 2005 4:47 am PT
Review:  Being a long fan for Civilization (since civ 1) this is the best of the sequel.
  you cant really leave your chair. i keep playing it all day in front of my laptop (i even sold 
 my old laptop because this game didn't work on it !!)
  the reality in this game is the best, you must be a real leader to make your empire thrive.
  
 you make deals with neighbors, trade with them, declare war or make peace. open your borders. exchange 
 science. 
  choose your city specialization, build wonders, choose science to learn.
  be balanced between growth, economy and military advancements.
  it just keeps everything in one 
 game.
  so i vote for it two thumbs up.
  you must get this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mikey007
Rating: 8.9
Date: Dec 4, 2005 10:26 pm PT
Review:  Civilization 4 is a great game that will ruin many a relationship. Here's why:
  
  Pros:
  
  * Similar feel to the original. Back to the good old basics, Start with a settler, build a 
 settlement & go from there. 
  
  * Great graphics. Nuff said about that
  
  * Lots of 'under the hood' features. You could play this game like the original, but if you want, 
 you get get into the nitty gritty of what makes the game work
  
  * Possible to play 1 game in a day or an epic game over many weeks. Awesome feature for me.
  
 
  *Very addictive. Its the old 'just 1 more turn' hook. You d better tell your girlfriend to bugger 
 off for a while, because she aint getting no attention.
  
  * Game works relatively fine of an old system
  
  * Variety in civilizations. Americans play 
 differently to English ect.
  
  Cons:
  
  * Epic game gets bogged down after 50 turns or so. i dont know if its my crap computer, but things 
 slowed to a crawl after a while
  
  * Because its so similar to every other civ game out there, it get old fast. There only so many 
 ways you can win before you start thinking ive done this before'
  
  * Over hyped. I dont think this game deserved a 9 from gamespot simply because there asnt that 
 much difference from Civ 3 apart from tweaks here & there.
  
  Summery:
  
  Im very glad i bought this game because i know i will come back & play this for years to come. 
 Its definitely worth the buy!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cbass3k
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 4, 2005 4:42 pm PT
Review:  Okay people, the game we have all been waiting for has finally come out. Computer geeks have been 
 drooling over their desktops desperate for the game to come out, others have been drawn to it by 
 the comotion of the news, and people that have rarely or never played games before have gone to 
 the store to buy it!
  
  Civilization IV is by far the best game I have yet to play, the new civilization of the future. 
 It has awesome graphics that can make the player's eyes water, gameplay that will make you sweat 
 with anxiety for more, and a variable degree of levels for variously talented players.
  
  If you have played any of the older Civilization games before, you will LOVE this final output 
 from the assembly line. It has a more graphics, more units, civilizations, and options to tweak 
 to your liking. If anyone likes game where you can test your skills and strategies in diplomacy, 
 politics, though very little; and overall love for building empires from one tiny village to a 
 vast civilization like the Old Romans, then I suggest you buy this game fast.
  
  Very little can be said about the bad side of this game, the only lacking is hardware wise. You 
 absolutley NEED a good computer to be able to play this game peacefully, and enjoyably. A good 
 processor and great graphics, see game specs before you go out there an buy what you need.
  
  A final note to those of you that already have Civilization IV, enjoy your endless time playing 
 this game and keep on civing! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gonzx01
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 4, 2005 9:09 am PT
Review:  THE BEST STRATEGY GAME EVER RELEASED!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!. Like I said in the reviw deck, the best strategy 
 game ever released, with new civilizations, technologies, units , options and gameplay options, 
 all those things make of CIVILIZATION 4 the best game ever in series and genre. Now with amazing 
 graphics, dynamic gameplay and cool sound. It's also a superb multiplayer game, you can play online, 
 LAN and the most amazing multiplayer option is the hotseat, created by 3DO in the heros of might 
 and magic 2 and now used in this game to provide even more fun to the players. The hotseat option 
 allowes you and your friends to play with only one computer and game, 9 players can play with only 
 one computer! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ariel_king
Rating: 2.2
Date: Dec 4, 2005 5:35 am PT
Review:  I played this game and I was really disappointed about this game.
  
  Gameplay: You can build your army of soldiers and then you go and kick some butt. The AI are very 
 weak and the areas aren't interesting at all. But still the weapons are pretty cool.
  
  Graphics: The armys look perfect but the weapons are horrible. Besides that, you get nice and big 
 areas.
  
  Sound: This sound is one of the worst sounds in a strategy game. If you turn off the sound in this 
 game than the game gets better in 20%.
  
  Value: You can play for like 5 minutes and then be bored to death. The gameplay is very short and 
 there isn't an online feature in this game.
  
  Reviewer's tilt: Overall this game is one of the worst strategy game on the PC and you should never 
 go and try this one out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: redrobodragon
Rating: 8.1
Date: Dec 3, 2005 9:30 pm PT
Review:  At first I thought this is another version of age of empire series but now i see it has nothing 
 to do wih that game. Its more like Empire earth 2 except it has turns, (no offence to this game, 
 I know civilizations it a classic and I dont want to compair it with other games. Well with all 
 the cool things its got, There is also something bad about it, its not a technical problem, its 
 not a graphic problem, the problem is that this game is made so you would have to play 5 hours 
 to only end one round. During the game these messeges will pop up and they are really ennoying, 
 then since the game is a "turn" base game like chess inwhich players have certain moves with diffrent 
 units and they take turns.... so sometimes you have to wait 8 turns to make a simple worker and 
 during that come another 3 messeges will pop up and youll have to read them because if you just 
 keep pressing ok youll wind up being in a war with barbarians, while your still making your worker 
 and youll still have to make at least two more defencive units. 
  
  
 
  LETS CUT THE CRAP! I KNOW YOU WONT READ ANYTHING I JUST WROTE BECAUSE I WOULDNT READ ANYTHING 
 U WROTE! SO MY ONLY COMMENT IS THAT RENT THIS GAME BEFORE YOU BUY  
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: julaggio
Rating: 9.1
Date: Dec 3, 2005 11:20 am PT
Review:  Civilisation IV is a rare game that is what computer gaming is all about. I am relatively new to 
 the whole "pc gaming" thing but after a few days on this game I realised what an unwholesome pursuit 
 console gaming is. This game puts you in the centre of its universe and rewards for good leadership 
 and punishes you for making bad decisions. instead of a heavy handed one-size fits all" approach 
 that so many other RTS games are fond, of Civilisation IV allows you to mould the game to your 
 tastes and allows you to make each experience radically different from the last one. The game can 
 be the ultimate lesson in civilisation wide genocide or a lesson in peace or diplomacy. This game 
 is no pushover either captured cities can rebel and join other civilisations, barbarians can menace 
 you from the start, trigger happy neighbours can drop A-bombs on you whilst you labour away in 
 the industrial era, and in fact I didnt make it past the classical era until my third try.
  though the graphics arent fantastic they perform the job adequately well, though dont buy this 
 game if you are at all impatient as the game slow, thoughtful pace can be agonizing if itchy trigger 
 fingers and hordes of aliens are more your thing. 
  as said earlier i am new to both computer gaming and RTS games and if it hooked me after a week 
 then i can safely predict a shrp rise in deep vein thrombosis games acroos the planet. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: valursve
Rating: 7.7
Date: Dec 3, 2005 6:04 am PT
Review:  At first this game looks great and the gameplay is fairly good. Early stages are fun but when the 
 end gets near and the empire looks respectfully, the game becomes sluggish, very unstable and irritating 
 to play. Random crashes begin to occur, loading times become long and the overall gameplay gets 
 too frustrating.
  
  It's also very funny to see a lone enemy archer take down your modern armor with full health...
 
  
  The game is fun to play as long as the empire doesn't get enormous so I would recomend short, small 
 games... the large-huge spaceraces are not as fun as i had hoped :/ 
::::::

::::::
UserName: madmenno
Rating: 9.2
Date: Dec 3, 2005 12:59 am PT
Review:  Let's talk about the new elements Civilization IV contains. Almost every nation has 2 leaders to 
 choose from both with there own advances. Relegion has a strong influence on your neighbours tension 
 level, but it also can make your people happy and thrive. 
  
  Also new is the great people system, certain wonders, improvements and specialists will increase 
 the change that great people will be born. you got 5 types of them, religious, scientific, engineers, 
 merchants and artists. These can work in a city to give some extra culture, science, gold or will 
 make your people happy. They also have their own special ability. For instance, contruct a temple 
 in a holy city or research a new technology in an instance.
  
  The research tree is also pretty different. You got loads of new advances. But you can also skip 
 advances. It's possible to follow one line for instance, writing, Philosofie and so on to the modern 
 age.
  
  You won't have direct acces to resources such as cows or fishes. You need to research animal husbandry 
 to make ranges for the cows. And create fishing boats to catch some fish. There are a lot of resources 
 implemented such as sheeps, rice, silver, stone, marble, wheat and so on. Food will make your city 
 more healthy. luxeries as gold gems and silver will make your people more happy and marble and 
 stone help you speed up your wonders.
  
  Just a final warning..... Don't buy this game if you want a life, this one is realy gonna suck 
 you up like no civilization has done before.
  
  Menno Gouw 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tryx42
Rating: 9.8
Date: Dec 2, 2005 11:09 am PT
Review:  I've been playing this series since it first came out and it is still just as addictive. In fact, 
 I'll probably still be playing it until they come out with the next installment. Every game you 
 play will be different from the next and there are so many different strategies to try out for 
 many of the different victory conditions. It's also one of the few games I can't immediatly beat 
 on the harder levels. 
  
  Graphics - I'm normally hard to impress in the graphics department but it isn't a main factor to 
 my enjoyment of a game. The graphics were pleasing, more than 10 times better then the last installment, 
 and you won't get tired of looking at the screen. Still, I wouldn't want to have a poster of anything 
 I saw in the game.
  
  Sound - Heh, I've never had a sound track to any game but this came with one. It was actually very 
 impressive for a video game and there are a few songs i'm actually fond of. The only way they could 
 improve this would be to have the opponents actually talk to you.
  
  Gameplay - I'm sure there is enough praise for this catagory without me having to add to it. Try 
 it and you'll find out for yourself.
  
  Value - I've probably put more hours on any game in this series then anything else i've played 
 and this installment will be no different. If they never come out with another one, I'm sure i'll 
 be able to pick it up in 10 years and still have fun.
  
  Tilt - I'd say even if you hated video games you would love this one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: krisbl
Rating: 9.6
Date: Dec 2, 2005 7:46 am PT
Review:  I had high expectations when i got this game. 
  I was a huge fan of Civ III and couldn't wait to get my hands on this one.
  The biggest improvement 
 I noticed right away was the graphics.
  The whole enviorment and especially the combat animations has been improved.
  In previous civ 
 games this was kinda "static", but in civ4 they were quite dynamic, and more "fun" to watch. The 
 all-over quality of the game has been kept, and improved. I can still sit hours with this game 
 and have great fun. The sound is also good. Beautiful music plays throughout the game, there's 
 some periods where it's quite silent, and it seems like the music stops, don't know if it's suppose 
 to do this or if it's a bug. i
  This is a must-have game for Civ fans. :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: moleman03
Rating: 9.8
Date: Dec 1, 2005 12:20 pm PT
Review:  I wasn't sure if they would be able to improve on this series anymore then a few small improvements 
 and better graphics but boy was I wrong! The addition of relgion adds a interesting element to 
 the game plus spiltting governments into 5 different parts. AI is vastly improved. The biggest 
 problem from the previous games of the tedious micromange ment that was required has all been greatly 
 streamlined without losing playablity and control over the game. They defiantly have built a better 
 mouse trap with this one! If you are even remotely interested in this game you should get it, you 
 won't be disappointed. Even if you are new to the series this game has vastly improved the ease 
 of play to allow new users to be able to pick up the game and play. THe only thing I can ask for 
 from this game is more incluided scenarios, even though there will surely be many iser created 
 ones on the way, it is nice to have some that come without or maybe as an addon. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BlackOpsPolarbe
Rating: 9.6
Date: Nov 30, 2005 3:43 pm PT
Review:  This game is insane. No matter how many times you play it things always change. You can win as 
 one civ doing conquest and taking out all enemies, then go to another civ then win in the space 
 race and make all others look dumb. You could even go and win elections over who is the leader 
 of all in diplomatic victory. This is the best version of the games and it has some fun new things 
 to do in it. Anyone who likes strategy, god games, war, or anything to do with controlling a person 
 or people, should get this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: StanisalvA
Rating: 9.8
Date: Nov 30, 2005 11:18 am PT
Review:  If you liked any of the Civilization games, you sure will love this new addition to the series. 
 Tweaked gameplay, graphics, and content. With the 1.09 patch installed, I have not experience any 
 significant crashes or glitches. The people that give this game bad reviews must not be fans of 
 the series. I have played all the Civ games since the one on my 386 and this one is.... The Best!!! 
 
  
  Simply put, if you like games that keep you glued to the screen for countless hours without food 
 or sleep (bathroom breaks a must) , get this game. I have been dreaming I was playing it for a couple 
 of days now.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Thereisnotri
Rating: 9.6
Date: Nov 30, 2005 4:20 am PT
Review:  Wow! Bought this a couple of weeks ago - I've been busy at work so not had masses of time, but 
 still had a couple of sessions through to 2 or 3 in the morning - not ideal since I have to get 
 up on a couple of hours later. If anyone's seen the trailer for it - the "just one more turn" Civ 
 IV anonymous one - it's funny cos it's true! It's easy to think to yourself, just one more turn 
 and bang 2 hours have zipped past (and 30 or 40 turns) .
  
  This is by far the best Civ game - I hated Civ III - I don't even know why, it just wasn't as good 
 as Civ II and felt like a step backwards and Call to Power etc were non starters. Civ IV is as 
 good as the original though, the game play seems better balanced and the whole thing works much 
 better. The territory bit where you can't enter someone else's territory (and they can't enter 
 yours) works well and I like the influence factor where competing edges of empires gradually alter 
 each other, so if you are doing better culturally, or religiously you start eroding your neighbour's 
 control over their borders - that seems far more realistic and works well. Culture works well and 
 the introduction of great people does as well. The tile improvements system works really well and 
 gives you far more to think about and makes different terrain far more interesting - you end up 
 building cities in the desert and in the hills rather than concentrating purely on grassland, river 
 tiles or coast - vineyards (what the hell is a 'winery' anyway??) and all the other improvements 
 make for a great increase in depth and strategy - I also like the idea of cottages, growing into 
 villages and towns and effectively expanding your city.
  
  Combat seems to work much better (although in my most developed game I'm still only in the medieval 
 period as I'm playing several large epic games) and the experience system is a nice improvement.
 
  
  The whole feel of the game is far more balanced, detailed and accurate - there is less about it 
 where you're wondering why on earth it just did that and it just has the natural feel about it 
 that the original had. The new game engine as well is a massive improvement, but the pretty graphics 
 don't detract from the game.
  
  All in all I expect to lose a large chunk of the next few months playing this and I can't wait! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: reallife_batman
Rating: 9.3
Date: Nov 29, 2005 9:47 pm PT
Review:  Civilization has had a troubled past, but ever since Civilization III it seems to have picked up 
 to new heights.
  The gameplay of Civilization IV remains almost unchanged from previous Civ games, save for a few 
 new changes - such as there is no longer any pollution clean up required, age advancement is now 
 1-tech based instead of 2 and siege weapons really are siege weapons.
  The graphics are top notch, able to select between Classic Civilization II view, Civilization III 
 view and the new extreme zoom mode, unit movements are articulate and the terrain has never looked 
 better.
  Sound is okay, whilst it appears the music in the game only starts up after a certain technology 
 or year has been passed you can zoom in right at the start and hear the drums of your 4000 BC tribes, 
 or later on more classical music duration say the Renaissance and so forth.
  Multiplayer is, for the first time, great! And it is through Multiplayer that this game will live 
 on much longer then previous Civ games. Games can take as short as 20 minutes or as long as 2 hours.
 
  This game is a true gem of 2005 and should be an addition into anyone's gaming collection. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Thor1981
Rating: 9.6
Date: Nov 29, 2005 7:24 pm PT
Review:  I am embarassed to admit that I had never played a single game of Civilizations before Civ 4. I 
 finally was able to download the demo, and put it through its paces as much as I was allowed. Civ 
 4 has definitly brought out the addictive side of my personality, as I play the demo repeatedly. 
 The demo restricts you to four leaders/civilizations, and only 100 turns. Within this seemingly 
 limited allowance, I have encountered numerous ways to advance my civilization, and each way is 
 fresh. I hate how often the term 'replayability' is brandied about when perhaps you can give your 
 main protaganist a new outfit for the second run through a game. But Civ 4 is definetly worthy 
 of the title. Try the demo. Read the many reviews, both professional and not. You may just fall 
 in love.
  
  p. s. - There is currently a patch out which apparently addresses the memory leak issue inherent 
 when the game first came out. But what is a PC game without patches? Seriously, they pop those 
 things out within two weeks of most PC games hitting shelves. Long story short, its a stable game 
 from what I have read. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fenix1022
Rating: 9.7
Date: Nov 28, 2005 11:38 am PT
Review:  Ever wanted to relive the important moments in history for people different from your own? Well, 
 they may not take place in exactly the same way as you were taught in history, but you will be 
 more excited to learn.
  
  Civ requires strategy and cunning to find a way to dominate the map. You start out with a same 
 civilization, where you choose your starting culture. You adapt a religion and move forward. Spread 
 your religion, build new technology, and fight wars with neighboring nations to control your small 
 corner of the world. After growing in size, you can make treaties and bomb the hell out of your 
 opponents on your way to control of the world. Now, this can be peaceful control but that ha to 
 be up to your playing style. There are the options for a domination victory, space race, cultural 
 dominance, and more.
  
  I was recommended this game by my boss and I have to say that whle it is challenging, it is a great 
 game all-around. Definitely one of the best of the year. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: libraman
Rating: 5.9
Date: Nov 28, 2005 4:30 am PT
Review:  I'll be brief. How can a archer take out a tank? I was playing around with the game to see how 
 realistic the game plays and had a battle scenario with an archer and a tank. Guess who won. The 
 Archer. IMHO this should never happen. 
  
  I had another fight scenario with a prop plane and a Jet Fighter. Same results, the Prop plane 
 took out the Jet. Same thing with the Stealth Fighter. Come on it ain't happening.
  
  This is my first Civilization game and maybe I don't understand how the AI works. Mid-evil technology 
 against Modern 20th Century Technology should not even be close. It was not like there were 5 or 
 20 archers against the tank, there was 1 archer against one tank. Same with the prop plane scenario (s) . 
 
  
  While the game does hold some interest for me, the AI needs to be worked on. IMHO, this being the 
 4th version of the game you would think these types of things would have already been worked out.
 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: trisila
Rating: 9.2
Date: Nov 28, 2005 4:30 am PT
Review:  Civ IV is almost the complete game... complete actually being there. Easy mode is easy enough to 
 learn and boost the ego... and the harder levels will extend any gamer. 
  
  The part that religion plays extends the Civ series to new heights and the ability to micro manage 
 cities to the level you can is just awesome.
  
  Graphics are first rate, but you do need a good computer setup and some power to get the best out 
 of the game. Much better experience on my desktop PC than on my laptop (but still not bad on a 
 Toshiba Sat Pro with G Force FX graphics card) .
  
  The best buy of the year and will be hard to surpass.... but look forward to someone doingit.... Maybe 
 Sim City 5??
  
  Tottally addictive. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gwailo2470
Rating: 5.5
Date: Nov 27, 2005 9:46 pm PT
Review:  This is a great game, but it has very serious flaws that render it unplayable. 
  The game runs very smoothly when you have 1 unit and 1 city on the screen, but as your empire expands, 
 the games starts running slower and slower until it crashes. I have applied the patch and tried 
 it on both an ATI and NVIDIA cards, and the same problem occurs. I tried turning off all the graphics 
 and sounds options, and it only delays the inevitable crash. In my opinion this is an unfinished 
 product, and should not have been released in this state. It if was not for this, I'd recommend 
 this to fans of the genre, but until they release a patch that makes it playable, stay away! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: racinjsn99
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 27, 2005 12:18 pm PT
Review:  Even though this is really a repackaging of the same game as the rest of the series, I think it 
 has improved a lot over previous games in the series. The graphics are top notch.
  
  I only wish they could have made a map larger than the largest map which was similar in size to 
 the planet earth.
  
  But basing the map on a sphere was a nice touch, unfortunately one of the things brought over from 
 previous titles in the series is that they did not add support for map sizes larger than before. 
 (So same basic rule set)
  
  Also, if a turn equals 5, 10, or 20 years, and a unit say takes 10 turns, that's 50, 100, or 200 
 years to make one unit. I understand the time it takes to build buildings and research technologies. 
 But I find if you take your time as does the computer, you "can" (but not always) end up in the 
 bronze age by the year 2000AD.
  
  1 year turns would have been nice. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CAsurfboy
Rating: 9.8
Date: Oct 11, 2006 4:14 pm PT
Review:  This game is everything and more that Civilization fans could ever hope and dream for. Someone 
 could easily spend the next year playing this game and always finding something new to do to not 
 just win, but conquer!
  
  Civilization III set such a high standard to meet, and I'm very glad to see this game meet it. 
 If you have never tried the Civilization series, start trying them now. They're educational, addictive, 
 and just plain fun. Once you start, be prepared to be awake for a twenty-four hour time period. 
 It's that good.
  
  In the game, there are some technical difficulties. I've found from playing that for some reason 
 the Christian belief doesn't work. By this I mean that whenever a player tries to do something 
 related to Christianity, the game shuts down. Also, some of the great people don't work. When you 
 try to tell them to build their great wonder ( painting, university, etc.) the game will once again 
 shut down. Don't let the technical problems stop you though. This game is without a doubt worth 
 playing! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: solTYger
Rating: 9.7
Date: Nov 27, 2005 8:53 am PT
Review:  After playing this game for a while, I can say I have never been so addicted to any game as much 
 as this one, sure I had the ATI Renderer problem so I wasnt able to play it right when I bought 
 it, but when they released the fix the next day, all I have been doing is playing. The graphics 
 are great and the soundtrack is very well done. The difficulty is just right and the replay in 
 incredible. If I would have to find one thing to complain about that would be Captain Spock's voice 
 with every technology you discover. Dont get me wrong it was great at first but, I am sorry to 
 say, It got old very quickly 
::::::

::::::
UserName: djynen
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 27, 2005 1:08 am PT
Review:  Of course, like 99% of the gaming world I'd heard about Civilization - the original Empire-building 
 Turn-Based Strategy game, but I'd never really taken an interest in it. About four years ago, I 
 gave Alpha Centauri a try, and found it was far too complicated for me to get into. As I've gotten 
 older, my interest in twitch-reflex games (like Doom 3 and Half-Life 2) has waned. I've been looking 
 for more contemplative strategically-fulfilling games to play. Rome: Total War is an excellent 
 example of a game that bestrides two genres - RTS and Turn-Based Empire Building. With that in 
 mind, I decided to give Civilization 4 a punt.
  
  And I've been playing it non-stop for the last two weeks.
  
  Being a complete and total newbie 
 to the Civ genre, I was apprehensive about the high difficulty level. My concerns were allayed 
 once I started playing the tutorial - which is the best I've ever seen for any game in any genre. 
 It lays out all the basics in a friendly and simple manner - just enough to get you started, and 
 pique your interest. Another major surprise was seeing and hearing Sid Meier in the tutorial. With 
 the addition of the creator of Civ to the tutorial, it also becomes an opportunity to sell the 
 charms of Civ to sceptical newbie gamers like myself. Sid, you can consider me sold.
  
  The amazing paradox of Civ is that the user interface to this game is incredibly simple to use 
 - anyone who's played an RTS (especially Sid Meier's Pirates) will have no trouble with the controls. 
 
  
  But the underlying game rules and features add an infinite amount of breathtaking strategic complexity 
 to this game. There are so many different tactics you can use to build your empire, but 
  
  in the end they boil down to effectively manipulating three important resources:
  
  Productivity 
 (Hammer icon)
  Culture (Musical Note icon)
  Gold (Gold coin icon)
  
  Each civilization you choose will have the ability to maximise any two out of the three resources 
 listed above. For instance, Queen Elizabeth (England) has the Financial/Philosophical 
  
  characteristics. Meaning she can maximize her Culture/Gold output. The result being that this civ 
 will have access to plenty of gold, produce Great People (ie. Historically important leaders) , 
 and expand cities borders at a very high rate. The downside to this particular Civ is that the 
 benefits only arrive when you have access to more advanced technologies very late in the game, 
 and your military is absolutely pitiful until you access gunpowder/rifling and get the Redcoat 
 soldier. This perfectly reflects English history, as it was the Redcoats that allowed England to 
 build its empire so successfully. What this shows is that the game implements civilizations brilliantly 
 - every civ has its advantages and disadvantages. 
  
  The other aspect of the game, which I haven't quite mastered yet, is how you interact with competing 
 civilizations - and this is where the real challenge lies (at least for me) . For instance, you'll 
 get along better with another civ if you have a common religion (eg. Judaism) . But if you use a 
 missionary to spread Judaism in a competing civ, you're also giving them access to more temples 
 which they can use to generate more culture - thereby expanding their own borders more quickly 
 and potentially swamping your own cities. A lesson which I learned much to my own cost in a recent 
 game.
  
  As you can see, playing Civilization is a strategically complex affair - and I haven't even scratched 
 the surface yet! This game has already won critical acclaim from many different quarters, and I'm 
 more than happy to add my praise (not to mention plunk down my hard-earned cash) and support this 
 game. Here's hoping Firaxis (and Sid Meier) produce more games like it.
  
  Thanks Sid! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: non_existence
Rating: 9.1
Date: Nov 26, 2005 11:36 pm PT
Review:  Hi,
  
  Just have to say, upon starting up Civ 4 and seeing the interface of the game's main menu, coupled 
 with the astounding music, brought a swell of excitement to my heart. Okay, fine, maybe I'm over-exaggerating. 
 But seriously, this game really has an kick-a@* opening cinematic.
  
  Gameplay.
  Well, yes, it is a turn-based game, different to what of the main stream games, which tend to be 
 real-time strategy or first player shooting. Basically you and your opponents take turn playing. 
 Now, putting that aside, Civ 4 delivers a really great gameplay. What I most (and probably most 
 fans of the Civ series) is the combination of government, military, culture, resource, religion, 
 and technology factors. These factors, added with the ability to choose which type of winning the 
 player wishes to win by, whether by diplomatic, cultural, military, or technological dominance, 
 gives pleasure to all sorts of gamers. Some players might be more into the diplomatic strategy 
 (although I found this option is really hard to do. You end up having to giving tributes to lots 
 of other leaders) , while others might be into the 'military domination' kind of thing.
  
  Graphics.
  The graphics presented is pretty spectacular considering that the game is a turn-based 
 strategy game. During play you can actually recognise the resources (eg. stone) instead of looking 
 at strangely shaped, gray circles. During combat, the units actually swing their club realistically 
 like they meant to do some damage. Overall, the graphics display pleasantly if you have a fairly 
 up-to-date PC or laptop system, but anything lower than 512mb ram or 1.5 ghz will make the graphics 
 a bit choppy.
  
  Sound.
  The music and sound are pretty average, apart from the song in the game's main menu which rocks. 
 Each age/time period (eg. classical age) has its own appropriate music, giving the slight sensation 
 of that time period.
  
  Value.
  Standard PC price.
  
  Overall.
  If you're a fan of Civ 4, you mostly likely won't read up to here anyway, you'd be playing it already. 
 If you're looking for a new type of genre to play, this game is for you as it a really beautiful 
 game (again, if you have a decent PC/laptop) with really customizable options to choose from. If 
 you're only wanting for some fun in a PC game then this game might not be for you, as normal matches 
 can easily take up to 3 -4 hrs, while on fast-paced setting game is reduced to around 2hrs. 
  
  Non_existent out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: aluzrin
Rating: 6.3
Date: Nov 26, 2005 6:11 pm PT
Review:  The game play is good, it follows the general tried and true formula of previous Civilization games 
 where you begin with a simple settlement and build up to an empire with a few different methods 
 of winning the game including a diplomatic route. It seems to be easier to make friends with your 
 neighbors that it was in previous games. I like the new graphics and the music is pleasant as well. 
 It is a little to quick to move units, there isn't a pause to show how many turns it will take 
 to get somewhere before clicking to confirm movement. It does have some stability issues. The video 
 for discovering a wonder is choppy. For huge maps the game proves to be less stable the longer 
 you play, causing the game to crash and having to restart the game and revert to a previous save. 
 It is still a very addictive game despite these faults. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CLC67
Rating: 9.6
Date: Nov 25, 2005 6:01 pm PT
Review:  Good: Great historical turn-based strategy game. Sound and Graphics are excellent for a game of 
 this genre. Play is easy enough to start without reading the manual, yet difficulty levels can 
 be set to challenge the most serious players. There are multiple victory conditions, so the game 
 has excellent replay value. Starting conditions can be set to create a fast game or a longer game 
 depending on how much time you have. Mundane in-game activities can be automated, or you can micromanage 
 everything.
  
  Neutral: Latter turns can pass with no player interaction. For example, if you are waiting for 
 spaceships parts to be built, you may just be hitting 'enter' for many turns waiting for them to 
 finish. 
  
  Every once in a while I hit 'enter' at the end of a turn and think the game didn't register the 
 input, then I hit it again. If a diplomat contacts you right at that time the extra 'enter' input 
 will click 'no' to their offer. Got use to this so it doesn't happen any more.
  
  Bad: Nothing that I have noticed so far... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dan999
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 25, 2005 9:44 am PT
Review:  Bought this immediately after it came out and have lost virtually all my free time to it!
  
  This truly is a step up from Civilizations 3 which in and of itself wasn't all bad. Both single 
 player and multiplayer functionality easy to pick up (especially if you are already familiar with 
 the civ games system) , and addictive from the onset.
  
  I highly recommend this to both Civ followers and those who haven't experience the Civ other games. 
 
  
  Warning, not recommended for those with wives who expect to see their husband's every now and again 
 ... may result in computer being found on curb. (it's been threatened ... hasn't actually happened 
 ... yet) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hellipad
Rating: 6.3
Date: Nov 24, 2005 8:35 pm PT
Review:  While reading through the designer notes of Civilization IV I was not surprised to find that one 
 of the major issues they tried to address was game speed. I first got into Civ on the first Playstation 
 console (the second one never had such risky titles) and I understand that many gamers, especially 
 console gamers, get impatient with all of the micro-management. I have never seen another Civ game 
 for consoles and thusly have been unable to play another until I made the jump (maybe too late) 
 into PC gaming. 
  I believe that the new 'auto-magagement' features make the game nearly play itself. If you want 
 to, the only thing (almost) a player need do is tell a settler when to build a city and hit the 
 end turn button. The computer will suggest units, research unassisted to an assigned goal, build 
 all city and land improvements and explore uncharted territory. What is left to do? I tell the 
 computer to go stuff itself when it suggests most things and I try to make sound city decisions 
 but I find that the ease of the automanagement lulls you into inactivity and inattentiveness. I 
 was in 1920-something before I knew it in my first game (which I lost due to military dominence 
 of the A. I. and some premature diplomacy mistakes on my part.)
  I still enjoy the formula of reshaping real world history and pseudo managing an entire civilization 
 from BC to modern times (2020? something like that?) . The 'great person' feature is a great idea 
 but does not seem impactful enough as the 'great people' leave no real mark in history like building 
 the pyramids does. 
  I find the subtleties of the game's apeal to disapear like dust brushed under the rug by a robot 
 vaccum cleaner. Got that? what am I doing in the game? How are my decisions making any impact on 
 how my civilization is turning out? Could I really just keep hitting the end of turn button and 
 win on time? 
  I think that the old micro-management allowed you to look 'under the hood' of your civilization 
 and see the subtle changes that your decisions made. It forced me to look at each city and figure 
 out why it wasn't growing or producing or why everyone was upset. I felt more involved. I find 
 Civ 4 to be impersonal and hard to approach because of its sleek, 'hands-off' controls. And for 
 thaat reason it is more difficult because your incentive to learn how the game works is gone. End 
 Turn. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GregorreMH
Rating: 9.1
Date: Nov 24, 2005 5:29 am PT
Review:  I have played the Civ series since its onset. I liked each progressively more. Firaxis or whoever 
 actually created the game has put in their time creating a much more beautiful, engaging and challenging 
 game. Civ IV was well worth the wait in development. The five civilization categories as well as 
 the gameplay modifications in game setup make each game completely unique. 
  
  I have yet to try online play. I think the depth of the game will make head to head play much more 
 fun than against the AI but will take much longer to play. I am still learning how to manage all 
 of the nuances of the game and I have been at it for probably 40 hours. The manual is comprehensive 
 as is the civlopedia in gameplay.
  
  I have to say I am impressed with all of the thought put into the gameplay by the developers. I 
 think this is the best installment yet, and am glad I picked it up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vNoti
Rating: 9.8
Date: Nov 23, 2005 6:33 pm PT
Review:  "one more turn" that what you want to do when you start to play.
  i found my self in type of game that i dont like (only heros from this type of game i love) try 
 to undrstand the game dont see what is all the rumble about it but i'm taking a chance to see how 
 the game.
  start with the tutorial seem nice ok lets go the game, the first thing i notice is that the game 
 dont have campaine, ok lets start to play and sometime after four hours i found my self still play 
 in to the long hours of the night, i want to go sleep but one more turn, i need one more to finish 
 the secrino,
  what wrong with the game it wont let you stop it you cant even if you want you cant, you find your 
 self speake with you and saying to you "'ONE MORE TURN ONE MORE".
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dustinian
Rating: 8.4
Date: Nov 23, 2005 4:06 pm PT
Review:  If you liked Civ 3 then you'll like this game too. It has the same basic outline as civ 3, alpha 
 cent, and so on. The thing that seperates this from the other ones is the graphics and some tweaks 
 to the game play.
  
  They added religions which is pretty cool since you can now have your civilization be a theocracy 
 for the muslims or have an organized buddist church. Lots of different combos can add to the overall 
 customization of your civ which I thought was a real plus.
  
  The downside to religions is that if a city converts to say buddism and you are christian the city 
 will eventually gain both religions and will NEVER lose the buddism. I didnt really like this aspect 
 because it lessens the effect of a cities religious importance and makes it easier to conquer nieghboring 
 cities.
  
  The UN can be a pian in the ass especially if you don't want to be another one of those, freedom-loving 
 socialist hippie nations, because if your not in charge of it they will force you to submit to 
 many of those "ideals". This is why its best to build the thing or destroy it eveytime it is built. 
 (unless you like peace...)
  
  I gave the game a low rating on sound because unless your into African tribal music and what is 
 probably the UN's theme song the music in this game is awful.
  
  Overall the game is great and provides hours of entertainment.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cerowyn
Rating: 7.8
Date: Nov 23, 2005 2:36 pm PT
Review:  As a long time fan of the Civ series, I could hardly wait for this version to be released. I was 
 out of the country at launch, so it was nearly two weeks later that I finally got my hands on a 
 copy.
  
  The good:
  I love the flexibility of the custom game generation options, the stunning graphics and the remarkable 
 improvements in playability. A lot of the micro-management has gone away, although better build 
 queues would be appreciated. The dependance on certain strategies (such as rapid expansion) has 
 lessened, and combat is far more realistic. And, the barbarians are far more developed than previous 
 generations of the game!
  
  The bad:
  Several critical bugs seem to plague this release. Aside from what I've read from other players, 
 I have frequently had the game simply crash out to the desktop, with nary a warning or hint of 
 impending trouble. Luckily the auto-save feature makes it a little less painful to bear, but one 
 wonders if that feature was added simply because of the instability of the executable. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: empion
Rating: 8.8
Date: Apr 11, 2007 2:42 pm PT
Review:  For something years, Civilization make a return with Civilization IV. One of the best RTS game 
 ever.
  
  Gameplay: Great game play, but too many glitch. One it get very very slow when you discover a technology 
 by the name sattlites. It got so slow that you have to stop playign there. That only happen to 
 me when i have fourteen nations or more. Though the multiplayer game is improve dramaticly, so 
 is the single player game itself. The game have some new reat feture -- graphic, new battle features, 
 more improvement -- , faster game speed -- more technology with less time to advance, but you feel 
 lost in the sense of history because advancing is so quick. (8/10)
  
  Graphic: Excelence graphic, with bunch of enw feature like you get to see the wodner actually inprove. 
 (10/10)
  
  Control, Feature: Greatly improve. You actually get to end the turn without going through all the 
 unit that active. You get to tune in and out, look around the map. Defense bonus... etc. (10/10)
 
  
  Sound: Really nice. You can hear somekind of quote for each time you advance in technology. On 
 yhe other hand i still have problem with sea, you can not hear it when you close to it and i though 
 they should add few more music -- minor problem compare to the new music and it new fmusic eature. 
 (9.5/10)
  
  Story Line: There not much campainge and poorly edit story line. (7/10) Ignore what it said for 
 attribute, here the score...8.9 
::::::

::::::
UserName: grasmussen
Rating: 8.9
Date: Nov 23, 2005 6:23 am PT
Review:  First the good stuff:
  
  From the second I started playing it, I had a good time. I've played all of the previous Civ games 
 more than I care to admit, as well as some of its relatives (Call to Power I and II, Alpha Centauri) 
 and there was never any doubt in my mind that I would play this one too. There are just so many 
 different ways to enjoy this game. So many different settings and start points. And even if you 
 start a second game with identical settings you can be sure that the game is going to take a totally 
 different direction.
  
  The game has received a number of upgrades from its previous versions, as expected. It now boasts 
 a 3D engine, religion, more units, a flexible tech tree and for some civillizations you can even 
 choose from two different leaders with different traits.
  
  I really wish I had more to say about how great this game is, and we'll get to why I don't right 
 now:
  
  The bad stuff:
  
  This game crashes a lot. If it doesn't crash to the desktop or give you the good, old blue screen 
 of death then it freezes up the machine totally. This seems to happen to a lot of people and on 
 many different systems. As with previous Civillization games, this one appears to have been released 
 before it was proberly tested. Some sollutions to this problem has been "change your ATI card to 
 something that works" and "don't play on the huge maps". The first one is just ridiculous and the 
 second one is like saying "here's the pizza you paid for, but you can't eat the topping." We've 
 gotten one patch for the digital download version, but there's still a lot of us waiting to be 
 able to play and enjoy the game we've been waiting for for such a long time.
  
  Other negative things I noticed in my short time with the game:
  
  The wonder movies play jerkily 
 and the sound sputters a lot, even though my computer meets the requirements.
  
  Larry's ("That is not logical") voice can get a bit annoying at times, but luckily he can be turned 
 off. 
  
  With improved graphics comes decreased clarity. The new graphics is very pretty and very well done, 
 but the more "iconic" look of Civ II and III made it much easier to see if there was, say, a farm 
 or a mine in a certain square. In the new graphics engine this is more unclear, especially with 
 the different zoom levels. It takes too long to figure out what improvements have been where and 
 where new ones should be made. In the end it is easier to just automate all you workers and let 
 them sort it out.
  
  Conclusion:
  
  Overall this seems like a really good game. I can't till I'm actually able to play it properly. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: iMighty
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 22, 2005 8:37 am PT
Review:  This the greatest game I ever played =)
  As soon you press the Play NOW! and prepare a map and stuff. Then it begins!!
  But I recommend 
 to play the Tutorial first. If you a new Civ player.
  You put your city somewhere and make your first worker. Then improve the tiles and make upp a big 
 nation. You can be a warlord or worldleader you decide.
  The new stuff in Civ IV is everthing. You can now ex make a Great person that make building finish 
 or also build a temple on a holycity.
  Religion is the new thing. It make you citizen in that city more happier.
  The Civic can some 
 improvement to your nation like more forest in your border make more happiness.
  And there is a whole new graphic in Civ 4 all is in 3D!! It's also like Warcraft change to 3D in 
 Wc3. The graphics nice, cool and wonderfull.
  But my computer sucks ass so it lags all the time. But I hopefully that I gonna buy or get a new 
 computer so I can play this in to the limits.
  The offline mode can makes more than 100 hours. I think even the online mode can make even more 
 hours. 
  I recommend this game very much. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sir_recneps
Rating: 9.3
Date: Nov 22, 2005 7:32 am PT
Review:  Gameplay: 
  
  Civ IV puts you in charge of everything in your civilization like the technologies you wish to 
 research, buildings or units you want to create, the way you rule your country, your interactions 
 with other civilizations and so much more. This really gives the game such an all-encompassing 
 and deep feel to it and enough to keep you playing for hours.
  
  It also gives you quite a number of different ways to achieve victory which are Dominion, Conquest, 
 Culture, Space Race, Diplomatic, Time or a combination of these.
  
  You also get to choose different nations and leaders which give you different starting technologies, 
 unique units and different leadership traits.
  This provides different strategies for players to achieve victory. For example, someone playing 
 a game requiring a Culture victory will benefit from a creative leader to give their cities an 
 early culture boost.
  
  The game also introduces a new religion system which can bring numerous advantages to your civilization 
 mainly in the form of cultural and happiness boosts.
  
  Unfortunately, the game suffers from severe performance issues especially if you're using a low-end 
 system or playing some of the larger maps, thanks to the memory leaks which sometimes occur during 
 gameplay. I think the developers could have easily prevented this problem if they had tested it 
 just a little longer.
  
  Graphics:
  
  The graphics in Civ IV are not mind blowing but still quite pleasant thanks to the detailed landscapes 
 and the normal-enough looking unit models. The game also allows you to zoom all the way out till 
 you have a space view of the entire earth which you can use to see how big your civ really is compared 
 to your other rivals.
  
  Other than that, the leaders you interact with have their own animated models which can show different 
 emotions and reactions depending on how you deal with them.
  
  The looks of the cities will also change depending on how advance it is and what wonders you build 
 in it which is quite nice to see.
  
  Sound:
  
  The sound in Civ IV is nice with lots of appropriate and mood-setting music, especially the title 
 music which sounds real neat. The game also lets you play your own music which is kinda cool, although 
 the pre-set music is more suitable for the game if you like to listen to rock or stuff like that.
 
  
  Value:
  
  Civ IV has so many different features and options which can radically change the way the game is 
 played, giving it a lot replayability value.
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: kellerwe
Rating: 9.8
Date: Nov 22, 2005 2:40 am PT
Review:  Having had the privilege of starting of in the days of Civilization Call to Glory, then Call to 
 Glory II and then Civilization III, this game is just what the doctor ordered and the developers 
 and everyone else that was remotely involved with the creation of this, need to be highly commended!
 
  
  This one solves virtually most of the annoying user interface aspects that plagued earlier versions, 
 the gameplay pace is just right and the introduction of Religion and a few other subtle nuances 
 have really made the game even more complete - not that earlier attempts weren't already good.
 
  
  It's easy for me to see why this has become an Editor's Choice since from the moment the installation 
 screen starts, this release just looks and feels right.
  
  Once the playing starts it's almost impossible to get away from the computer without some serious 
 coercion. Fortunately my wife is also a Civilization fan (she bought her own copy) and I can see 
 us spending quite a few hours challenging each other in the excellent new Multiplayer mode included 
 with Civilization IV which allows multiple players to complete their moves simultaneously before 
 ending a turn for all connected players. This is a great improvement in terms of the sheer time 
 it took previously to complete a multiplayer game.
  
  While the graphics in the game are not in the same league as Black and White 2 for example, they 
 are absolutely right for what the game needs and a huge improvement over previous releases without 
 any overkill, although I must admit that even on a 3.0 GHz HT processor with a GeForce 6600/256 
 MB and 2.5 GB RAM on board, some of the videos become a bit choppy if Anti-Aliasing is set to anything 
 higher than 0. This is a minor issue though and doesn't really deserve any further comment since 
 it doesn't distract from the hours of fun that true empire builders will get from buying this one.
 
  
  In this regard I cannot comment about the other reviewers that had some serious issues with ATi 
 RADEON-based graphics cards, since I haven't tried installing the game on my laptop computer that 
 uses the latter.
  
  Until then, simply put - a masterpiece! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: werbin
Rating: 1
Date: Nov 21, 2005 8:54 pm PT
Review:  They posted a "fix" day 1 at their web site. http://www.2kgames. com/civ4/support_ati. htm.
  The uninstall / remove video drivers / reinstall / unpack files process takes 30 minutes plus. 
 It does not work. I am waiting for a patch. Do a google search. There are many people having this 
 problem and no definite fixes.
  
  Don't even think of buying this. Rent it first to make sure that it works on your PC. If they don't 
 come out with a patch you need to wait. I am not even sure that they are acknowleding that they 
 have a serious problem. I suspect they knew about the problem but wanted to ship it now. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JDubb86
Rating: 9.6
Date: Nov 21, 2005 8:45 pm PT
Review:  From Call to Power to Rise of Nations, I've spent a ton of time in this genre of strategy game. 
 And, for the past year or two, the whole 'make your own history' gig has been flooded by titles. 
 This one sets it all apart, and in my opinion, redefines and revolutionizes the series.
  
  At first I was skeptical from hearing all the hype. There was no way you could fix something that 
 so many other games and tried to fix already. The series has come a long way and I doubted its 
 heir without seeing its potential. A friend called me over to show it off and in the first 10 minutes 
 of booting up and playing it, I was hooked. What a beauty of game.
  
  I strongly recommend this title to everyone who has either had an interest in getting into the 
 genre or fans from the past. It's most definitely a trial at least. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mgunal
Rating: 9.3
Date: Nov 21, 2005 2:12 pm PT
Review:  The game is the best sequel to Civ series. But it's such a strange decision not to include Turks 
 as one of many great empires in the list. I hope they will include Turks in the next patch. Turks 
 have been one the most effective empire of medieaval and modern ages. Ottomans were the main reason 
 for Europe to renovate and begin renaissance and Chinese to build great wall. I don't now how Sid 
 missed that. Moreover, they were in WW1 and joined allies at the end of WW2 although they did not 
 do much for the good guys. But from the beginning of 10th century, Turkish empires (namely Ottoman 
 Empire and Turkey) , have always been important for Middle Eastern Asia and European civilizations. 
 I suggest the producers a reconsidering of their decision. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: neoavail
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 21, 2005 9:14 am PT
Review:  Finally, a Civ game that can be finally be fully enjoyed and finished under 4 hours (on fast setting) ! 
 The days of spending days on end playing a single game are now over having been replaced by spending 
 days on end playing several games. The gameplay speed is sooooo fast, it's 1500 A. D. before you 
 know it. Just about everything in the game has been improved. The tech tree is now flexible allowing 
 a different progression through it every time. Diplomacy now displays your previous dealings so 
 you know exactly why the Greeks despise you. Religion adds yet another new element to the game 
 (as well as in diplomacy) that makes this go around all the more fun. The graphics engine has been 
 completely revamped and gives the game the graphical feel of a real-time strategy game. It seems 
 that everything, even down to the vastly improved and minimized city screen, flows quickly and 
 smoothly allowing for a much tighter gameplay. The only negative I would have to give this game 
 would lie in the battle system. The days of "that phalanx just defeated my destroyer" are still 
 here with us although much less frequently now. For the soon to be Civilization addicts that are 
 new to the game, be prepared for a difficult learning curve. The more advanced aspects will be 
 out of newbies reach for a couple of games but the satisfaction you will feel for fully learning 
 the details of the game is well worth the effort. For all returning Civ fans, be prepared to call 
 in sick and putting you family and signifigant others on hold for a while. Civilization has in 
 fact made a huge leap for the better and will be appreciated for doing so. This game will fully 
 immerse all its gamers in a world that is created one turn at a time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: frankjan
Rating: 8.3
Date: Nov 21, 2005 7:12 am PT
Review:  The game has very good gameplay and I play it now to mutch and the game has manny strong enemy's. 
 I like the game buth it is not really my typ of game. I did not really what I had to do. Number 
 2 I did play not mutch buth I like it very mutch and this game had the same power as number 2 and 
 3. My father play's it very long and like's it so mutch that he plays it until 2am sometime. I 
 understand why you think it is superb becease it is just great. I don't now what I have to tell 
 you more so I stop now I think :P 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sos_lp
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 20, 2005 10:54 pm PT
Review:  In this game which i can say i love, You can see everything from great wonders, to great prophets, 
 to minor factions, villages, wars, and peace!
  You might say that is what you usually see in strategy games but never before with this much detail...! 
 You can choose from many factions (countries) and each with 2 leaders to choose from. Apart from 
 that there is the option to choose the world you want to play the computer difficulty and so on.... 
 well these are all very well! But what differs this game?...
  
  In a first glance what will caught your eyes is the staggering graphics used for a turn based game. 
 Fully animated units, with a fully animated world in a 3D based world map. I can say thats a good 
 start. On the next step what you would realize is the cites, villages and other concepts of the 
 game....
  
  The game in general it is a great fun to play and has a bad addiction feel to it. Since if you 
 get ahead you jus' wanna keep playing to stay ahead. there are many graphical points that if i 
 were to mention this review would have been better printed as a book, since they have really put 
 thoughts into designing this game. The game play is fairly good, and the difficulty settings don 
 not jump in steps, and are adjusted carefully to math you taste.
  
  From my point of view for the fans of this game it offers allot of new choices, buildings, tech, 
 discoveries and so on... but what it still does not offer is the concept that limits your game 
 up to some extent. If anyone recalls the game "Civilization - Call to power" you would remember 
 that in the game you had no population limit, no time limit, and some what no tech limit. The fun 
 it gave from playing was you were not suddenly shocked by seeing your best city cant grow anymore 
 and people are angry with over populating a city!
  I still think the game is good. It offers allot of things to discover which I am so not gonna tell 
 you guys, so you better buy the game believe me you wont regret!
  
  Over all i for my part give this game a rounded up 9 of 10 and i can say in the series this one 
 is the best but yes there are ways to improve as well so keep an eye out for another CIV-Episode 
 n the future! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ebax7588
Rating: 9.8
Date: Nov 20, 2005 6:08 am PT
Review:  There is a condition that has swept America dozens of times by this period in the history of video 
 games. It is a debilitating disease for which there is no cure except indulging in the very thing 
 that caused you to become addicted. I am of course talking about Sid Meier Syndrome, or SMS, which 
 I am now battling for the 3rd time in my life with the purchase of Civilization IV. All of the 
 new additions to the game as well as a new touch of polish to the same old civ helps to make this 
 the best installment in the franchise yet.
  
  Like I said before, Civilization IV is essentially the same game that has come and gone for over 
 a decade, but new additions to the game help to make it have a more polished and epic feel to it. 
 First off, the interface and the graphics engine have all been redone in earnest for Civilization 
 IV. I found that it was a little difficult to get used to the new interface being that Ive been 
 playing Civilization III for a long time, but many of my original grumbles were put to rest after 
 I became more familiar with the interface which works better than that of its predecessor. There 
 are many new elements of gameplay that make Civilization IV work well. New production systems do 
 not allow you to carry production to other projects, military units are now given generic combat 
 strengths so you no longer have to deal with the issue of a lone spearman defeating 5 tanks, government 
 is run through civics which allow for you to create your own government instead of having to use 
 an archetype of one, and the list goes on and on. All of the gameplay features enhance the experience 
 of playing the game and detract nothing, so this is not a weaker game from earlier itineration.
 
  
  The other major area that the game has taken a serious facelift is in the sound and graphics departments. 
 The sound of the game is a much more important part of the game itself. Along with the familiar 
 sounds of production completion or combat on the field there are also new sounds that accompany 
 pop-up warnings. For example, if barbarians stream over you border and pillage improvements, youll 
 hear a track of people screaming and swords clashing along with a little tab pop-up. These are 
 very helpful in situations where you must multi-task and keep your eye on several things at once 
 because it will instantly alert you to a crisis. Also, the game is voiced by Leonard Nimoy, a cool 
 little touch that helps to create a sense of notoriety in the game. The graphics have undergone 
 a huge change too, making the leap into full 3-D. All of the graphical touches add to the epic 
 feel of the game, especially the new set of things that will grow out from your cities as they 
 expand. One word of warning that I feel is necessary though is to do some research into what graphics 
 cards and computer systems will support Civ IV. I have a factory direct HP computer with integrated 
 sound and graphics and the game works fine which was a real surprise for me. But the general complaint 
 by many communities is that some graphics cards and PCs wont run the game. I would also recommend 
 that you meet the recommended requirements rather than the minimal, because this game eats up a 
 lot of RAM in order to function properly.
  
  All in all, Civilization IV is a great game and the next step in one of the most revered strategy 
 franchises of all time. Check your computer, check your wallet, and get over to the nearest retail 
 store to pick up Civ IV today.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: fabioshinichi
Rating: 9.1
Date: Nov 19, 2005 3:23 pm PT
Review:  Well, this one is a great sequel! The user interface got better and the automanagement "intelligence" 
 too. Althought Civilization IV is a great game that kept me occupied for a whole week there are 
 some issues.
  
  The great problem in my opinion is the battle engine. I really enjoy battles like the Age of Wonders 
 II system. I still play that one, believe you or not. In Civ IV you don't have control of the units 
 in battle and only attack 1 at a time thus having a huge stack of units means almost nothing against 
 a medium sized city garrison... you'll probably ending losing 1 or 2 of your veterans to take some 
 defenders. Needless to say I hate "autobattle" systems!
  
  The fact is that if the Civ IV battle system was similar to the AOW II I would give it a 10 score!
 
  
  That said, it still a 9 score game that's worth playing for a long time! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: redniels
Rating: 7.6
Date: Nov 19, 2005 10:23 am PT
Review:  CIV4 plays like.. well like Civ1! , but then with all the goodies of Civ2 & Civ3 in it, and all 
 the bad things kept out: so no more stacks of death, (stack of units which attack at once) an almost 
 decent automatic setting for your cities, no nagging cut scenes of your advisors as in CIV2, beautifully 
 animated and 3d units (beautiful: in a civ kinda way afcourse:-) 
  seige weapons can once again defend themselves (most annoying thing in CIV3) and religion is a 
 fun addition. ... in short: if you liked any of the previous civs: this is it, but on steriods..
 
  
  the bad: My machines (multiple!!) (3Ghz PIV, 1GB RAM, 6800GT, the other 3ghz PIV, 512MB 9600XT) 
 have issues with this game: the systems both start swapping like crazy, and the whole thing bogs 
 down, and at some times comes to a grinding halt... for like 10 secs untill the harddisk can swap 
 a bit more.. and more... and more... look, it moves again!!
  
  it's a memory hog, it really is... and this is the reason for this rating..
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Scubgal
Rating: 1
Date: Nov 18, 2005 11:09 pm PT
Review:  To be fair, I have not actually PLAYED Civilization IV, but not for lack of trying. After hours 
 and hours of tweeking, installing drivers , UNinstalling drivers , REinstalling drivers, installing 
 the game, UNinstalling the game, REinstalling the game, and trying some get the game to load through 
 some "back door" buried file, I've given up. This game simply will not work on my NEW computer. 
 If you have a Radeon video card, don't buy this game unless you can find evidence that there is 
 a Fraxis' patch that has fixed this major problem. Check out the "Civ Fanatics" forums (the site 
 is linked to the Civ 4 site) . I wish I had before I wasted my money on this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xeophaje
Rating: 9.3
Date: Nov 18, 2005 10:41 am PT
Review:  I would recommend anyone who is on the precipice of buying civilization iv to just go ahead and 
 make the leap, you won't regret it if you do someone in your family won't regret it.
  
  the flow of time and the graphics just wowed me. Yes it does have much of the same feel of the 
 old Civ games but it adds so much more to the pot. New graphics, better AI, more reasons to actually 
 interact with other nations.
  
  I finally have a reason t removed the old Civ games from my hard drive, to replace them with the 
 new reigning king.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nordin2
Rating: 9.7
Date: Nov 18, 2005 10:36 am PT
Review:  I am a veteran fan of the franchise and believe that this game is the next logical step in the 
 evolution of Civilization. The "feel" of the game is still the same, but there is more of everything 
 - more choices, more combat options, more commodities, more diplomacy AND though the largest map 
 at "epic" setting is "less" - in square area across your computer screen - this too is "more" - 
 more realistic, more immersive, more interesting and most importantly... MORE FUN!!!
  
  I had not a single tech problem - with 2.1 ghz Athalon processor 9600 video card, but I sympathize 
 with those that have - nothing worse than taking this baby home and having it crash - after forking 
 over $50 plus bucks! So, I hope they fix the issues for the small minority that is having BIG PROBLEMS 
 with this game.
  
  That said, I would give this game a 9.7 - there is always room to improve afterall - but it is 
 well worth the money for it's genre - Sid is still the king of Civilization sim games! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: madgino
Rating: 9.6
Date: Nov 18, 2005 2:47 am PT
Review:  After a frustrating start (I have ATI 9600, which seems to have a problem in running the games) 
 solved - after almost ruining my system by trying to uninstall directx - by following steps from 
 the official site, I finally was able to dive in the game.
  
  There is no big change from the strategically point of view: still have to build cities, build 
 improvements, build units, same fighting system, evolution by researching, money / culture / research 
 balance, wonders, diplomacy etc. This is good as they didn't change main strong points but they 
 improve each one.
  
  There are a lot of improvements that makes it a better one then its predecessors, I will only point 
 one that looks the most important to me: victory conditions. There are now quite a lot of methods 
 to win a game and this is good as this really brings some variety in choosing the game's strategy.
 
  
  The graphics is excellent, I don't know about the sounds and music as when I'm playing I'm too 
 focused in the game to hear anything.
  
  One last important thing, playing is so addictive that you can't stop in the middle of a game.. 
 be sure to have 4-5 hours to spare when you start playing a new game, as you'll definitely lose 
 track of time and any other plan you might have will look insignificant until you finally crush 
 your opponents. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: srgdrasco
Rating: 9.7
Date: Nov 17, 2005 3:28 pm PT
Review:  I have owned the game for about 3 days, played several matches on it, and have come to the conclusion 
 that Civilization 4 is a big step up from the other games in its series. The graphical overhaul 
 on the game is stunning, and helps portray many of the little details of the game. Once I noticed 
 my (rather large) city steaming a green gas. I looked at it once and thought, that city must be 
 sick or polluted. Once I popped up the easy city screen by double clicking it, lo and behold! The 
 sickness rating was higher than the health rating, causing the city to become polluted. Details 
 like that are critical to the game, and when the makers of Civ 4 make it noticeable but not to 
 stick out, I appreciate them for what they have done. Military and fighting is also a much improved 
 area. I highly suggest this game to EVERYONE. Unless your IQ is lower than room temperature, you 
 should be able to learn and play this game quite quickly and become attached, as I have, to it.
 
  ~Nik~
  Rating: Civilization IV - 9.6, A+ 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DARIUS18
Rating: 9.6
Date: Nov 17, 2005 9:24 am PT
Review:  Never played a Civilization game before and I was skeptical to start. From the title screen on 
 i was blow away. The music at the beginning was great. the amount of options that you have to choose 
 from is amazing. The graphics are very fun and engrossing. Watching your units do combat is very 
 fun, much more so than I expected. This game was a great surprise to me and I am not even close 
 to being done with it. I have heard people say they are having problems with bugs. I have had no 
 problems other than with the tutorial where you can not continue on from a saved point. It reverts 
 back to a normal game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fuzzynutz_usa
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 17, 2005 5:01 am PT
Review:  Picked the game up, loved it for a couple complete runs through the game. I played it straight 
 for almost 6 hours one time, so I know the game is decent at least. The only problem is now, I 
 pretty much know exactly how things are going to turn out almost every time. I know what strategies 
 to play, and I fear that the tedium involved in trying to conquer or not be conquered can become 
 so tiresome. It was all fresh and new the first few times I played through it. I would try out 
 different combinations, blah, blah until I found some things that worked.
  
  At this point I am thinking about uninstalling though, when I get to a certain point I just feel 
 like ugh, here we go again, micro manageing every little army piece or city production. I know, 
 I know they have auto-production, but still they will make some retarded stuff if you let them 
 and it just feels stupid.
  
  Anyway, I can not recommend this game to anyone simply because, if you are like me, you will get 
 bored with it after you know how the thing works. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dariune
Rating: 7.2
Date: Nov 17, 2005 4:35 am PT
Review:  I have been an avid fan of Civilisation and Sid Meier since day 1. 
  What an achievment Civilisation was that you could take a nation through time on such low speced 
 hardware. 
  The fancy Graphics werent there back then and neither was the massive marketing capabilities that 
 are around today. 
  Therefore the game gained fame through blood sweat and tears. (gameplay, hardwork and originality) 
 
  
  Civilisation 2 and 3, although less original were remarkably fun to play even though there were 
 glitches in realism here and thee and various parts of the games that we would rather have done 
 with out. 
  
  I got the latest Civilisation hoping for more hours spent bringing a young tribe into a world super 
 power. 
  
  After playing for a good couple of weeks i had mixed feelings over the game.
  The 1st thing i noticed was the opening music. I loved it! It was catchy and non intrusive. Another 
 good point was the amount flexibility that the initial options offer now. If you want to play a 
 fast game (which i know some of you do) then you now have that option. However the downside is 
 the slow option really isnt as slow as some of would like. 
  The Graphics have been nicely improved and although not up to date they are nice to look at. I 
 am constantly amazed however at the massive drain on your machines resources when you consider 
 the graphics arent anything special. 
  My PC is a pretty special machine and yet here and there during the game it seemed to either run 
 slowly or have a uselessly slow framrate. 
  My largest complaint with the game is how much they have dumbed ths game down. It seems to be a 
 desease spead through out developers recently that all their games are made for 8 year olds. Too 
 much is done for you or in the back ground. It highlights good places to build a city and everything 
 has written guidelines on it to make it easier to understand. 
  I personally do not like this aproach. 
  Having said that, the AI is a lot better in this game 
 and i like the way it tells you WHY another nation likes you or not instead of just assuming you 
 know. 
  
  In short, i do like the game, its not original and doesnt really offer a new experience. I have 
 and will spend some time on the game but its not really as fun as the others because it just doesnt 
 play as well and its too dumbed down. 
  
  To Summerise 
  +The sound is great, lots of apropriate sounds and tunes. 
  +The graphics are better and dont 
 look bad
  +The game hasnt changed too much
  +borders are still there and improved. 
  +Religion is a welcome addition to the game
  +AI is better
  - Its dumbed down
  - Its dumbed 
 down (i know i said that but im sick of Devs doing this) 
  - Its not as fluid or fun as it used to be
  - Not enough original content 
  - Drains too much 
 system resources
  - Its just not as fun as the old games
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: SPCD
Rating: 9.3
Date: Nov 16, 2005 10:14 am PT
Review:  I'll admit it. I am a Civ n00b. This is the first game in the series for me, so hopefully I can 
 give a completely objective view of the game as possible.
  
  First off, I'll mention the Sound, Graphics, and other presentation elements. The graphics are 
 without a doubt the weakest part of the game. The since it is a TBS, the graphics are no problem, 
 but, well.... just look at some screenies. It is about as nice as Rome Total War was in the campaign 
 view. There are however some good cinematics in the game (sweet, but far between) . The sound however 
 good. There is a good score for the menu's that is a mix of some more primitive tunes that actually 
 compliment the game very well. By no means, is this a presentation power-house though.
  
  But then again, like I said before, are you really getting this for the vast presentation. You 
 are getting it for the gameplay! This is the deepest and immersive strategy game ever! You really 
 feel like you are controlling a civilization in almost all regards. You can control the army, the 
 navy, the airforce, the cities, the workforce, the great people, the religion, and so many other 
 aspects! Games can really last for hours on end. As a matter of fact, I just ended one rather intense 
 game that took about 12 hours to play through. And that is another thing. If you don't want to 
 have to pour 500 hours into a single game, you don't have to. You can select from three different 
 play paces which all give a new and distinct feel to the game.
  
  Another new feature is religion. It is fairly cool, considering you can play from the beginning, 
 found your religion, and then try and spread it throughout the entire world. But then again, it 
 has a feeling that it could have been better. It is very clear that the developers were trying 
 to not offend anyone in the course of religion, but that caused it to really feel lacking. The 
 ideologies of all of the seven religions in the game are not reflected at all! They could have 
 at least put 100% positive things about them in. In the end, it was good, but felt a little lacking.
 
  
  Even with the flaws of the religion system, other ones like the diplomacy and combat ones are top 
 notch. I have still heard reports of people getting their tanks killed by warriors and spearmen, 
 but I have never experienced that.
  
  So, I guess I should leave you with my recommendation for if you should get it. I would say anyone 
 remotely interested in TBS games will find that this is the BEST one out there. For those who don't 
 like TBSs or strategy at all, this game is simply not for you. There is definitely limited appeal, 
 but if it appeals to you, it will appeal to the max! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SSS383
Rating: 9.3
Date: Nov 16, 2005 8:31 am PT
Review:  Before buying Civ 4 I was wondering to myself how the civilization games could get any better. 
 Well this game did get better and its now screwing with my new marriage. 
  
  There are a few things I want to point out that make the game feel new and improved over the old 
 Civilization games. The two most exciting things for me are the way in with special resources are 
 handled in the new game and the addition of religion which adds a whole other strategic aspect 
 to the game. The resources in the game are pretty much the same as the previous Civ 3, horses, 
 cows, weat ect. but now you can interact with these instead of them just sitting there and giving 
 you a passive bonus. Its just so neat to see some horses, and say "cool, found some horses" then 
 have to 1st develop the tech. to exploit the horses and then send a worker there to build a road 
 to them and build a pasture for the horses. The developers have also introduced some strange new 
 resource-like things such as hit singles and movies that can be traded like resources. This and 
 all the way in which you can improve tiles and exploit resources make the game so much more interactive 
 on the small scale.
  
  Religion is another thing that makes the game much more engaging. The religions themselves are 
 real world ones. They can be spread around with missionaries and can improve relationships with 
 other nations who are the same religion. Its also fun to be the first nation to develop a certain 
 religion and get the associated bonuses for it. 
  
  A few other features that were added are things such as a 3D graphics engine, different types of 
 famous people that you can use for various things and a design that allows the game to be played 
 at a much faster pace. The 3D engine could have been done better but the game has so many other 
 aspects that hold your attention that you wont spend too much time starting at the details of the 
 graphics engine. The famous people are cool because you can use them to do all kind of things such 
 as create famous artistic works that generate loads of culture, augment production and other things. 
 The faster paced design isnt as important for me because I like really long planned out games, 
 but for people that dont like spending forever on one game, this is a big plus. 
  
  Now for the very few negative things about the game. As I said before, the 3D engine could look 
 a little prettier but I understand it was made more everyones computer. The interface and details 
 of the game can be overwhelming and crazy at first but after you get to know the game it only makes 
 the game better. Also as with any strategy game I've ever played, I wish the diplomacy was more 
 intricate. The diplomacy is good but I ran into one situation last night that made me annoyed. 
 If one of my guys gets trapped behind their borders he cant come home withour crossing them and 
 starting a war. I dont want to go as far as starting a war or declaring open borders, there needs 
 to be a temporary pass or something. There are other small things with diplomacy that could be 
 better but its good overall. Other than this, there are only very small nitpicks in the game, nothing 
 thats overly annoying. I think its a definite must buy for anyone who likes strategy games at all 
 and for anyone else that has that urge to control a nation. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: adidare
Rating: 8.8
Date: Nov 16, 2005 8:09 am PT
Review:  when i firstly played civ3 i felt quite boring but then it became one of my favorite games so obviously 
 i was anxiously waiting for civ 4 and believe me 
  its a great game with great sound and beautiful enviroment but some of the great piont of civ3 
 are lost civ3 was without loading problem civ4 wants loading even after a turn 
  as whole a great game you urselves controls an empire and led ur nation to glory higly detialed 
 world u have manage every every inch of ur progress u have to battle hard to gain victory in civ3 
 nations massively figth agianst each other make foriengh affiars interesting but in civ4 surprisingly 
 all nations r peace loving and its very hard to win a city but aboveall these facts its a must 
 play title for tsg lovers 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jfw3rd
Rating: 3.6
Date: Nov 16, 2005 2:58 am PT
Review:  Imagine you just bought a Porche 911 in candy apple red with the tan leather interior and all the 
 bells and whistles. Now imagine getting into the driver's seat , turning the key, and hearing the 
 engine of a sick Yugo sputter and fail. That's this game. I cannot imagine how it got a 9.4 from 
 the editors, but, to paraphrase a great politician, I knew Jack Kennedy and this game is no Jack 
 Kennedy. While the graphics are beautiful, I have to reset my system after each session because 
 my defaults are overwritten. That's when I can get this very buggy game to load at all. 2K, Firaxis, 
 and Sid Meier should all be ashamed at this pre-mature release of a possibly great game.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jameslb85
Rating: 3
Date: Nov 16, 2005 1:27 am PT
Review:  Im a great fan of Civ, the very 1st game was truly amazing! but as time has gone by the games have 
 seem to get worse!! this new Civ is just to fast, you can finnish a game in less than a few hours. 
 Its just a race to finnish the game as fast as posable. With all the hype generated by various 
 game sites and mag's i was expecting this game to compeat with the 1st one, but unfortunatly it 
 wasnt. A real let down. Game play was very boring and dull, and didnt have the ability to hold 
 my attention for more than a few days. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jadeheart6
Rating: 4.8
Date: Nov 15, 2005 11:30 pm PT
Review:  I want to like this game. It's a very pretty game. And it has substance to back up all the new 
 flash. At its core Civ 4 is similiar to its predecessors. The only bad thing about it is that it 
 resembles Civ 3 when it was released, it has many bugs. The most sever is a game killing one. It 
 crashes to desktop over and over once u reach the 1900's. Even on a high end machine the game bogs 
 down in the latter stages. I suggest you read the bug reports at http://forums. civfanatics. com/forumdisplay. php? f=170 
 and decide for yourself if you want to drop $50 on this would be drink coaster. Maybe the patch 
 will fix the multitude of problems, then I would be happy to try to actually finish a game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dwarfism
Rating: 9.8
Date: Nov 15, 2005 6:15 pm PT
Review:  i know that each and every one of you are thinking the saem thing I was thinking when I first heard 
 about Civilization iv coming out. if you were like me, you hated civ III, but not because it was 
 a bad game but because of teh amoutn of time it took to play and how much time it took to play 
 multiplayer at a lan. With CIV IV, I don't care anymore its that good. its just all around fun, 
 and the game play is very good. 
  Religion plays a very, very big role in the game now and founding religions can really help with 
 deplomacy and also your civics. The more you play the more you seem to catch and the more you want 
 to play to get better and better. There is even a bit of comic relief in teh ranking system when 
 you get done with a game. from dan quail to nero to augustus ceasar. 
  overall, a great game I hope you will all buy and play online. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: britneyyy
Rating: 6.2
Date: Nov 15, 2005 1:29 pm PT
Review:  I am very dissapointing with this game. for many years we are waiting for something revolutionary 
 but still civ IV is nothing special. Only half 3d camera look and copy of Rise of Nation special 
 units that are not really true.
  If i haven't idea for better i will not doing anything and others are blinded by marketing and 
 bying this game, and give this game some extreeme score .
  I like this type of game turn based but this is total failure like shattered union game. Game can 
 be played but is boring after 1 week of play. and difficult for newbees.
  Music is better part of the game but sound effects are preety boring.
  Atmosphere is better than 
 other civ's . 
  Civ IV is also addictive when you start to build civilization but that is with all RPG games also 
 but better done.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: gbartl00
Rating: 7.6
Date: Nov 15, 2005 8:58 am PT
Review:  Don't get me wrong. It's a nice game.
  
  But it felt like Civ III - just in a new wrapper. Had a bad case of deja-vu while playing it. And 
 after about three days of games that all seemed to go the same way with the same results.. It didn't 
 take long for me to tire of it.
  
  I really do enjoy turned based strategy games. But honestly.. I wasn't feeling the 'strategy' ... 
 every game just seemed like a rapid-fire race for the high-tech... and I had a fundamental problem 
 with medieval archers being able to take out my tanks and apache attack helicopters.
  
  I'm sure Civ is probably the best we can do these days in the genre... but it wore me out quickly 
 and in my humble opinion.. is probably a tad bit overrated in most of the reviews.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Iggy82
Rating: 9.8
Date: Nov 15, 2005 8:57 am PT
Review:  As a long-time fan of Civilization series, this is the best one of all time yet! Every year this 
 game has gotten better and this year is no exception. The makers of the game did a complete overhaul 
 of many concepts, added many units, buildings and worker options. No real time or turn based strategy 
 even comes close to Cvilization IV! However, this is not for the simple-minded fools who only look 
 for graphics and quick gameplay. Don't get it if that's all you care about. 
  In addition, the misc stuff, like music also has gotten better. The music accompanies the game 
 all throughout and makes you feel like you are actually inside the game. Graphics also have gotten 
 better, although they make no difference as far as gameplay is concerned. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shivan2k
Rating: 9.8
Date: Nov 15, 2005 5:24 am PT
Review:  One of the most anticipated games ever and the latest installment of one of the most decorated 
 series in the videogaming history has finally released.
  My expectations, I have big a CIV fan since the first game, sooo many years ago, were very high. 
 
  Sometimes, when a sequel of a masterpiece is announced, people may be happy but also fearful to 
 see their beloved game ruined. This is not the case. Civiliziation IV continues the story, built 
 during the years with exceptional games, if excluding a few false step as Play The World.
  The key of the success of this last release is to maintain the gameplay substantially unchanged. 
 The old one was practically perfect and so rebuild a Civ game from scratch should have appeared 
 as an hard challenging task. Sid and Firaxis left it unaltered, and simply improved it following 
 the suggestions received after Civ III during the last years. A short list of them follows:
  
  3D
  boring actions removal (like litter collection)
  more complicated victory conditions, 
 especially the diplomatic one with the UN wonder)
  improved AI
  sooo many new civilizations
  two leaders for most of the civilizations
  more units
  more 
 discoveries
  suburban areas (super boosted rural cells around cities)
  no more riot (almost)
  
  and much more.
  
  The most significant improvements regard religion 
 and government forms, anyway.
  So many religion to spread through the world, helping your nation to feel unite and hlping also 
 the cultural domination. 
  So many new government forms, that bring very different sceneries because each of them produces 
 bonuses and maluses.
  
  Absolutely amazing graphics and music (you may stop at the opening menu just enjoying the chorus) 
 produce an immersive and addictive experience you will remember for long, or until Civ FIVE!!!
 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: obi-mark
Rating: 8.4
Date: Nov 15, 2005 4:25 am PT
Review:  I've been a great Civilization fan for... well all my gaming life. It was the game that hooked 
 me up. And while game did progress greatly Civ 4 seem somewhat rushed out. It's missing a lot of 
 options while expanding on some and taking away some smaller details. But let's take a look at 
 the good sides.
  Graphics are stunning. Units are quite pretty, animations really nice. No problem there. Interface 
 is somewhat classical, displaying everything you need to know while not clogging the screen. Options 
 are there to play with... you can set almost everything you like. Game plays well. With 18 civs 
 on huge map turns whoosh past without much difficulty. Pretty buildings, new concept of great person, 
 plenty of new resources, new improvements. There's solid material there, but it's still lacking
 
  When restarting your game it doesn't remember what name you set, neither which civ you choose, 
 which is a shame since on higher difficulties you have to repeatedly restart the game to get GOOD 
 start. You can't change your civilization colour or at least I wasn't able to! Next, mountain terrain 
 is impassable. WHAT?! You mean to tell me I'll NEVER be able to cross them?! WHY?! It's not like 
 we don't have roads over and through the mountain, or we don't have mines on them. IF you want 
 it be impassable make it VERY HIGH MOUNTAIN. As I recall mountain is anything above 1000 meters. 
 SO DON'T say there's no road over mountain, not to mention tunnel. A/D/M (Attack/Defence/Movement) 
 system is changed, now it's S/M (Strength/Movement) . While I was expecting to have it refined so 
 that units get special abilities, no, they simplified it. Next improvements. I mentioned they introduced 
 quite a lot of them, but they took out plenty too. So now we have watermills, windmills, mines, 
 farms, plantations, road, railroad, camp, pasteur, fishing boats... all the goodies. But where 
 did the airport go? Why can't I station my aircraft outside my cities or carriers?! Why can't I 
 build colony? Why can't I build observation post? Radar tower? Why didn't they add sonar to protect 
 your borders from subs? There were so many ideas to improve, yet they took most of them out... 
 Also, now no improvement can get you any production (hammers) from seas, you can't build ANYTHING 
 in desert... which does make SOME sense, but why not a mine? You can no longer plant forest, guess 
 people are too dumb to plant some seed and let it grow... No terraforming either, which doesn't 
 come as a surprise, though I did miss it from Civilization 2.
  Coming up to units, we have a great variety of units whose lifespan is some 20 turns, if you can 
 churn them out faster than 1 every 20 turns. You can upgrade them, but if you want enough money 
 to be able to do that kiss your research goodbye. And you know what THAT means to your civilization. 
 So you either spend ALL your resources on research, just to stay in the race or go to spending 
 spree to keep your units up to shape. But what I found disappointing is that they dropped very 
 cool features, you can no longer bombard squares with your ships, or bombard units in squares. 
 Now you can only take out city defences. There's no more bombard range, everything is reduced to 
 1 square. Now I'm not sure if you can sink ships from your shore. Then there's the air force. You 
 have bomber, stealth bomber, fighter, jetfighter, 'copter and... That's it. Oh yeah, ICBM too. 
 No cruise missile, no transport helicopter, no paratroopers, not even tactical bomber to load onto 
 your carrier, and by some universal standard, your marines are so weak you don't have to bother 
 to build them. Navy SEAL (unique American unit) is no better. Also, no cruisers. Just Battleships, 
 destroyers, subs. Not even nuclear subs... but that's okay, you can't load them with missiles, 
 simply because there are no missiles! Carriers can only car 4 air units, transports,. So that part 
 is bit disappointing. Overall combat is quite good, with experience points allowing you to customize 
 units. A welcome addition. Still the amount of experience compared to upgrades is somewhat disproportional. 
 The A. I. is not so good. I still have a feeling it's cheating on higher difficulties, like Civ3 
 did, but so far haven't got any proof of that. Also it's lacking in the aggressive behaviour department. 
 So far, only 3 wars, haven't even wiped a single civilization out and I'm in the modern age... 
 tsk, tsk, tsk. Here I come to my greatest grievance with Civ4, even on huge map, world doesn't 
 FEEL huge. Maybe because units and cities are disproportionate towards each other and especially 
 towards terrain. But with little bit of zoom out maybe it could be taken care of.
  Gameplay is where Civ 4 truly shines. It will keep you occupied for hours and hours. It will keep 
 you awake with that old "Just one more turn, I'll get a tech then and I will upgrade all those 
 pesky units into something better... then those (insert civilization) will REALLY regret it." Even 
 on huge map with 18 civilizations turns are very quickly, but that's on high end computer.
  Overall, while feels lacking in some departments it's continuing tradition of addictive gameplay. 
 With expansions and mods it will certainly be THE game to get. Until then, if you're not fan of 
 Civ 4 well, wait just a little.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: thing50
Rating: 9.4
Date: Nov 15, 2005 2:47 am PT
Review:  A beautiful game that brings to life the Civ world in amazing graphics and sound. This is a huge 
 leap forward for the game as far as the visuals go... it is like no other Civ technically and brings 
 the game bang into the 21st century. 
  I feel this version is FAR easier than previous Civ's... I am NOT a good Civ player, I know this... but 
 I am winning comfortably in this version on level's I found pretty difficult before. I think this 
 is due to the 'suggestions' made to you by adviser's... I am sure there is more of this sort of 
 thing in this game. Also, the unhappy citizens driving you nut's is gone... city's no longer become 
 a pain in the ass by revolting, they just slow down... good job!
  I really like battles too.... you get to see them in a 'blow by blow' sort of zoom in... like you 
 see every punch and shot fired... its pretty cool.
  The 'wonder' movies are just brilliant... watching the wonder's being built from their foundations 
 up... I mean, again, just technically so professional and impressive like everything else in this 
 game.
  The other Civ leader's are brought to life with great graphic's for the character... with specular 
 and shader's etc I mean they just look so darn cool!
  The game is faster by default... but there is an 'epic' (epic/normal/fast) option which I presume 
 slow's the game down to previous speed's.
  All in all the game is just so polished graphically in all area's its just a real pleasure to play 
 it and you may find it very hard to stop!
  You need a hefty PC to play the larger map's... my comp crashed when there was 9 other civ's (!) 
 on a large map. It just could'nt handle it and slowed to a crawl before giving up the ghost with 
 a return to desktop... game crashed.
  I have a geforce 4 TI4200, 1gig ram, audigy 2 ZS and Athlon @2.2gig... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: salqadri
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 14, 2005 7:14 pm PT
Review:  I've played several hours of Civ IV now, and there have been countless things that I have wanted 
 to say while i've been playing this game, and the following is a review from a Civ veteran.
  
  My favorite version is Civ II, and have played that game for years on end, and had even customized 
 it with my own units, civs etc. I used to love the long epic games that always resulted in a different 
 unique story. Several things about the game I miss even today, such as the awesome Council, spies 
 and aerial warfare system. The only thing it didnt improve from Civ I was the end-game replay. 
 The Civ I replay stats was awesome. I personally found Civ III to be a major letdown for many reasons. 
 The game removed Civ-II-like aerial warfare, spies, movies, the council etc. But more importantly, 
 the game had too many flaws, especially in AI. Enemy setllers would always walk through our lands 
 without right of passage to make annoying cities in our face, and it was too easy to defeat the 
 highest difficulty of deighty with one boring strategy: Expand and dont war with anyone till the 
 tank age (no one attacks if you pacify them) . Then make tons of modern armors, sign a right of 
 passage, stack ur armies next to each city, declare war and capture the entire civ in one turn. 
 It was kinda fun but beat the purpose of the whole game since every game was the same. Yet I found 
 it hard to return to Civ II because of two major reasons: The lack of Culture, and the lack of 
 the awesome resource system of Civ III. These two things are perhaps the best improvement in any 
 version of Civ since the original, and they were both made in the same version: Civ III.
  
  Now, on to Civ IV, but note that my entire review is based on the Epic time setting using the Huge 
 map, as I like to be immersed into the story of the game, and experience all the ages.
  
  Before I review gameplay, a note on simpler-to-review aspects. The graphics and animations of the 
 game are great (for a turn-based game like this) . I thoroughly enjoy them, and for the first time 
 have not checked the 'quick battles' type options. The best thing about the game is the sound! 
 It is AWESOME! I especially love the Civ I music they put back in. I really really missed the original 
 intro music, and I'm so so glad they brought it back with a bang. Throughout the game there is 
 lots of music, that varies through the ages, and also varies on the zoom and what you are viewing. 
 The sounds and music of this game are better than most games i've played, let alone former versions 
 of this game. In terms of value though, the game is expensive, but the addictivity and longetivity 
 of play is why I rated value 10 as well.
  
  The first thing to note about Civ IV gameplay, is that it is much harder. On Monarch Difficulty, 
 I was unable to win the game even though I tried several times (I easily beat Civ III Deity and 
 have also won Civ II Deity several times, though Civ II was extremely challenging at that level) . 
 This game cannot be played the way we have always played former versions. In order to do well in 
 the game, the concept of continuous expansion doesnt work well. Instead, the key is "specialization" 
 and religion. You need to designate a city towards science, another towards money, another towards 
 productivity (sometimes a city can specialize in multiple, but try to max at 2) . Without such specialization, 
 it is not possible to build a healthy research-based economy. I never used scientists etc that 
 much in former civs, so this game required a change of mindset. After losing my first monarch game, 
 I tried using religion for my second attempt and quickly realized its importance. It is crucial 
 that you found a religion as soon as possible. Founding a religion gives a strong strategic edge 
 as you can see around all cities that follow the feligion, even opponents, and also it provides 
 an excellent source of income. Furthurmore, it enables two excellent civics: Organized Religion, 
 where all building production is 25% faster in cities with that religion; perfect for peacetime, 
 and Theocracy, where military production is 25% faster, perfect for wartime. My personal recommendation 
 therefore is to discover polytheism first before anything else, founding hinduism, or atleast giving 
 the chance to be the first for judaism or christianity.
  
  Movies are back, but the council isnt. Spies are back, but are not as cool as Civ II. The combat 
 system has changed, and has become a lot of fun. Now, in order to capture a city, you need to first 
 bombard its defences then attack. And creating a stack of doom can be fatal if the opponent can 
 cause collatoral damages. Infact, the collatoral damage system is excellent now, especially with 
 stealth bombers. These collatoral damage units can both bombard, and attack; where attack causes 
 collatoral damage and bombardment lowers city defences. You are no longer restricted in movement 
 to unoccupied tiles; instead, you can even walk into other civ's cities and units!!! Again, this 
 is something that goes against the instincts of veterans, so often I forget to take advantage of 
 that fact. Unit upgrading is really cool and adds a new interesting dimension to the combat system. 
 One good early tactic is to give your early units two woodsman upgrades, allowing your unit to 
 become a fast explorer with double movement over forests and jungles. For my navy I like going 
 Flanking I -  Navigation I for increased ship movement. This system allows me to make 2 sets of 
 artillaries for example, one focused on collatoral damage, the other on city bombardment. The game 
 has also taken the Civ III resource system and expanded on it, which I think is excellent.
  
  The tech tree has issues. I find that the game doesnt play much at the knight age, the unit 
 most memorable from my Civ I days, since the tech right after Guilds is Gunpowder. Point being, 
 knights are pitched against muskets. Basically, there is no crusades era. The swordsman/archer 
 era lasts a long time, and then things really speed up and go so fast that you quickly end up in 
 the modern age before any more proper fighting can be done. So I found that in order to war, you 
 either do it before the musket age, or the modern armor age, as these can be done without sacrificing 
 essential building production and economy/research development (there are lots and lots of options 
 to build in the middle game, and are often so important that war becomes secondary) . That said, 
 this game is very different to Civ III, and war can come on you anytime, even if your neighbors 
 like you a lot. Often what happens is that there is no room to expand for your neighbors, and they 
 logically have no choice but to attack you. You HAVE to maintain an army at all times I've noticed, 
 which is very hard to do while trying to keep up with the tech race. This game I found, unlike 
 previous versions, is HIGHLY dependant on technology. One small technological edge makes a huge 
 difference in war. Therefore, no matter what, you MUST stay relatively ahead in technology. But 
 this is what makes the game so hard:
  
  As you go from archer age to nuclear age, you have to manage research, gold, wonders, commerce, 
 cities, government / civics, happiness, health, expansion, trade, resources, religion, culture, 
 armies and relations. Its a long list, but all important.
  
  Infact I found that the importance of diplomacy has never been more in any previous version. It 
 has become really sophisticated and extremely extremely important. The AI is really good at maintaining 
 all the aforementioned aspects, and especially good in research and armies. If the best scoring 
 civ declares war on you, you are almost doomed because they have large massive state-of-the-art 
 armies. And that is why diplomacy is so important. I've noticed that civs will declare war after 
 you have refused some kind of demand. I therefore recommend that you accept all demands unless 
 you are prepared to defend yourself against long wars. I found that once you acquiesce to just 
 one demand, that civ will be satisfied for centuries to come, sometimes even become good allies. 
 The only thing I cannot accept is converting my religion, as this is an essential source of income.
 
  
  In my most recent game (Prince) I was coming third. China was first, Greeks were second. I had 
 tons of money (make markets, banks, grocers, found a religion, and choose state property and you 
 can play the game easily at 90-100% science atleast at Monarch) . With my money I secretly told 
 Mao to declare war on Alexander. All chinese defensive pacts were broken. Alexanders defensive 
 pacts were invoked. And I also declared war on China, and as I did I destroyed all three of their 
 oil wells (one using a stealth bomber, one with a destroyer and one by capturing a small city near 
 by) . Now I am first, Greeks 3rd Chinese 4th. That was fun, he he, but not easy.
  
  Anyhow, there is a lot more I'd like to say about the game, but due to the length of this review 
 already, I have to conclude. My remarks: This Civ takes the best of all former versions, and creates 
 a great professionally polished new game. It has maintained its story-telling capacity (atleast 
 at the Epic setting) , allowing a high level of addiction and very long playability. All in all, 
 this is one of the best Civ's yet. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: giansifnos
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 14, 2005 3:50 pm PT
Review:  the best game ever!!! firaxis is back to make us again huppy 
  !!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! the game is not for small age gyes only for 20+ gamers
  i am 30 and i like 
 to play all time this game 
  this game with one world is amazing
  thank you gyes very much
  must be 100 words minimum. We encourage you to try to get your review 
 right the first time -- you may choose to edit it later on, but by doing so, you will lose any positive 
 feedback associated with the review. We encourage you to write your review in a word processor 
 or text editor, save it to your local disk, then copy and paste it into the posting box below. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: deity13
Rating: 2.7
Date: Nov 14, 2005 2:44 pm PT
Review:  I bought my computer last year. It has all the fancy bells and whistles and goes well beyond the 
 minimum requirements and even most of the recommended ones. However getting this game up and running 
 smoothly is a complete waste of time and utterly annoying. ATI, Dell and Civ Tech support were 
 all useless. The game play itself is quite unimpressive. Having to listen to Spock's intro every 
 time I start a new game is frustrating. The opening graphics for his speech generally suck. There 
 a few cool features but essentially it came out tooooooo early. It's not like this game was a 2 
 dvd disc featureama nad it certainly wasn't a blue ray rom. So why is it so impossible to enjoy? 
 I hate to say but it just simply sucks! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mtusween
Rating: 9.7
Date: Nov 14, 2005 11:48 am PT
Review:  I started playing this game because I read a lot about it through previews in magazines. It sounded 
 like it would give me a lot of control in the destiny of a civilization.
  
  The game did not dissapoint. I am not a strat game guru. I never pwned noobs, and I dont have Uber 
 Micro, but I still the game is very addicting.
  
  What I enjoy most about this game is the fact that you are the king, dictator, president, or what 
 have you. You make the decisions, on a lot of things, but not to much to make it a slow game. 
 
  
  I wish I had more strategy game experience, but none other grabbed my attention like this one did. 
 So bottom line, if you have Uber Micro, or you are the king of Head shots you should play this 
 game. You will not regret it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: marksjunk
Rating: 6.8
Date: Nov 14, 2005 5:19 am PT
Review:  This is the biggest change of all the Civ sequels, which is both its strength and weakness. The 
 graphics are undoubtedly its strongest point, with the game at last looking just about as good 
 as anything else on the market. But I do feel that some games go too much for beautiful 3D graphics 
 at the expense of solid gameplay, and in Civ IV not enough work has been done to make this game 
 flow.
  
  Civ II and Civ III were basically following the same structure, and as such, while they may not 
 have set the world on fire, they were in no doubt improvements on the original. Civ II's greatest 
 point was an improved combat system, while Civ III's was the additional of culture which defined 
 national borders. Both sequels improved diplomacy. Civ IV would have been better to follow the 
 same basic structure, making improvements where necessary. Here are some gripes:
  
  Generally speaking, despite all the additions, it seems like the game is more restrictive. For 
 example, you seem to be less able to send settlers off to claim a resource far from your base (should 
 you choose to do so) , and there is less reason to do so. Most of the time your borders get set 
 fairly early in the game, and it's quite random and unbalanced as to who gets the initial advantage. 
 Sometimes it seems that there are so many things you can build that in fact each thing that you 
 build has little impact on the game. 
  
  Even the diplomacy, which looks good on the surface, in practice is rather limited - why can't 
 you trade resources for technology? Sometimes nobody will trade with you, whereas other times you 
 can trade a single technology for five or six others from different Civs. Definitely needs tweaking.
 
  
  The combat system certainly needs looking at. Personally, I prefer the old system. There are some 
 interesting options with the new system, but basically they slow the game down. Do you really want 
 to spend hours working out which units are best for defending cities and which are best for fighting 
 in the hills? The complexity of the new system is not suitable for a turn-based game that is already 
 quite long.
  
  The graphics, too, slow the game down a lot. The preferences only allow you to turn certain features 
 on or off, so you can't enjoy watching the battle graphics at a faster speed. Even with most of 
 the features switched off, this game is much slower than Civ III. And thank Sid for the improved 
 auto-worker controls - I certainly wouldn't want to mess around with the complicated worker options 
 later in the game. The older system was better, since it allowed you considerable control over 
 how you built up your cities. The new options are so complicated you may as well just use auto.
 
  
  There are also not enough options at the beginning of the game. The new types of world are good, 
 but you should have additional choices. Unique Civ units don't seem very good - perhaps each Civ 
 could have more than one, plus a unique building?
  
  That's enough of a rant already. I hope the first expansion set will improve the game immensely. 
 They need to tweak a lot of things! Tweak, tweak, tweak... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: npsyco
Rating: 9.8
Date: Nov 13, 2005 8:34 pm PT
Review:  ... in much better context with reality, though with free power to change the order of the world 
 as you wish. The micromanagement is somewhat acceptable, compared to Civ 3, which was hell. The 
 interesting aspect about religion and especially the civic options, are incredibaly exciting, at 
 least to regular Civ fans. Combining civic options with the specialties of the leader you choose, 
 in the beginning of the game, really is worth many hours of replay and combining, giving this game 
 an incredible amount of gameplay. Even compared to a regular game, this is a time-consumer, and 
 thats not including the online-access. As a strategy game, I have never seen anyhting quite like 
 this, and the fact that it is enjoyable looking at too, while having a smoothe interface and gameplay, 
 really makes the turn-based "boredom" go away. Fairly quick loadtimes, though Im only on a 3,2 
 P4, GeForce6GT, 1Gram, I can run the game pretty smoothe, but as it recommends, using the Intel 
 Extreme, should enhance the performance just a tad, and then the game really could run smooth. 
 Of course, with the right graphics too.
  Its quite easy to learn, and for Civ 3 players, the only thing you need to be on the look-out 
 for, is the Wonders. They are much different, and Great People (i. e. the Civ 3 - Leaders) really 
 is worth struggleling for. The very improved A. I. is really nice. It reacts to strategic facts 
 like the player having almost no military but is way ahead in everything else, and a computer, 
 lacking technology and culture perhaps, but having huge armies, may be "envious" and declare war. 
 Also, no military units can go into your borders, unless they declare war first. 
  In the cities, the innovation really lies in the different specalists that you can have. In Civ 
 3, if you had excess citizens, they could become Scientists, Merchants and Entertainers, the ladder 
 being quite used in Civ 3. In Civ 4, you can have several different specialists, but only if you 
 have the proper technology.
  There are a broad variety of technologies, most of the ones from Civ 3 and some brand new ones. 
 Some of them gives acces to worker options, like irrigation, but when you had to only research 
 Masonry to get the Irrigation feature in civ 3, in Civ 4, you need to go through the Agriculture 
 technolgy, just to get Irrigation. So, at least two more technologies per Era. 
  In Civ 3, the only time the cities changed image, was when you entered a new Era, well in Civ 4, 
 everytime you build an improvement, you can see it on the map. Even wonders you can see, and the 
 cities can become very large, if you build many wonders in the same city. :)
  So, if you want to try and shape the world from the beginning of mankind, and lead your civilization 
 into an era of good A. I. programming, nice graphics, thousands of possibilities and worth many, 
 many hours of gaming, Civilizations 4 is definately worth the purchase. I wouldnt give up my special 
 edition, thats for sure! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Endersan
Rating: 6.9
Date: Nov 13, 2005 4:30 pm PT
Review:  I love Sid but this is the buggiest game I've ever played with his name on it. Shipped to early 
 IMO! 
  1st. It had trouble seeing CD.
  
  In just 2 days of play multiple crashes on a state of Art gaming rig with updated drives
  
 
  2nd Video lock up and drop out - Twice in that period
  
  3rd Interface lock up with diplomatic text behind overlay screen - making it impossible to dialogue 
 with diplomat
  
  4th 5 complete drop out to windows with no chance to save and losing hours of game play.
  
 
  On easiest sitting opponents don't seem to be able to take care of resources very well at all
 
  
  Graphics are fine but flow of game is slowed for eye candy.
  
  Do like the Special people feature and unit promotions.
  
  This ones going back on the shelf 
 until a patch comes out 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SiNoNaX
Rating: 9.2
Date: Nov 13, 2005 2:55 pm PT
Review:  Remember the days when we played Civ 1 the game that made Turn Based Strategy a main stream a fantastic 
 game that we grew up playing.
  
  But basically lets face it Civ2 and 3 ran straight down into the dirt. And now we finally get Civ 
 4. This game is freakin amazing absolutely all the things I was looking for in the other Civ games 
 but were missing. Everything is much simpler the way it should be yet offering a very advanced 
 strategic system.
  
  I found that the tech tree was easier to deal with, the top-down view introduced absolutely rocks 
 for that classic Civ 1 feel, terrian improvements are much more intresting and the addition of 
 extra emphasis on the terrian resources was a rght move to make.
  
  Tell this date I havent ran into any bugs so dont know what all the fuss is about running nice 
 and smooth over here.
  
  Reminds me of the Civ4 trailers : Absolutely Addictive!
  
  To be honest another Sid Meir game to be played and rememberd. A must get! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: anders_williams
Rating: 2.6
Date: Nov 13, 2005 11:15 am PT
Review:  The game itself seems alright at first hand, you are excited and ready to explore the universe 
 of Civilization. The units are familiar, the techs also, and a few new concepts are introduced, 
 as always you feel comfortable with the civ product you have purchased. This feeling goes away 
 after about 2 hours of playing.
  
  Let's start out with the good things.
  The graphics must be said to be outstanding, then again, poor coding skills witness the problems 
 many graphic cards is experiencing with this game, in particular ATI based card, but also NVIDIA 
 (ref. the problem when zooming out in world perspective mode) . Furthermore the graphics is so detailed, 
 that a non-state-of-the-art computer will have difficulty running the game in a good resolution.
 
  
  The Music is absolutely fantastic, but not varied enough, more tracks is necessary to generate 
 a feeling of comfort when stuck in the classic ages for a long time. A good reference here is the 
 GTA games, which has a different approach to music, but nevertheless a comprehensive soundtrack 
 which does grow old as fast as this does.
  
  The introduction of religion is interesting, but not developed to a level where is has any real 
 meaning in the game. Sure in the earlier years the small amount of intelligence the clerics can 
 gather for you can be a little helpful, but the "free religion" civic is so powerful compared to 
 the other possibilities, that state-religions becomes irrelevant after the classical ages, which 
 arrives fast with the new non-linier tech tree. The tech-tree is simply screwed up, you can develop 
 ICMS without ever having learned to catch fish in the ancient years. Ok ok, I get that you probably 
 don't need that tech to master nuclear physics and rocketry, but still some things should be implicit, 
 and a tech-tree like the one in Civ IV is not really suited for a real-world approach to technology.
 
  
  The gameplay lacks a lot. Gone is many of the shortcuts, and the seamlessness you used to move 
 your troops with. The time it takes to move one unit, one tile, and then to move it one more is 
 incredibly long, and you get tired of it very very fast. The use of right-clicks to fast-move your 
 units is just annoying, since most Civ fans is used to the menu it would bring out, enabling you 
 to control the actions of the unit completely. To many things is left out, and the control seems 
 to have disappeared.
  
  To many, far to many units have been left out. Like nuclear powered subs, tactical nukes, cruiser 
 (regular and AEGIS) and many more. Whether these are intended for a possible expansion is hard 
 to say, but a rule should be that a version 4 of a game should have at least as many units as v. 
 3 or even v.2, I am sad to say that version IV of civilization has cut back on anything from units 
 to details and complexity to a good point of reference. The latter is in reference to the normal 
 comprehensive civiliopedia, which normally contains detailed information on units, terrain and 
 game concepts. It seems that this has been left out of the testing at Firaxis and written in a 
 hurry because it had to be in the game for the release.
  
  In total: The game is NOT a release it is a BETA product, and the people who have paid money for 
 this should either ask for it back or demand significant upgrades very soon!
  
  The game is to simplistic for a Civ game, to much neat little graphic icons without text. It seems 
 that the game has been made for kids in the age of 10-15, no offence intended, and prepared for 
 console editions where the keyboard and normal civ fanatic has his day of glory. If Firaxis does 
 do something very soon, I am almost positive that we have seen the last civ game since the fans 
 will not embrace this game as they have the 3 previous versions. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mcboogs
Rating: 6.5
Date: Nov 13, 2005 10:00 am PT
Review:  I've been a Civilization fan since the series began, I've probably collectively spent more time 
 playing CIV games then any other series, maybe even any other genre. Now having spent about 40 
 hours playing CIV IV, I have mixed feelings about it. Ultimately I believe that the game was pushed 
 out the door too soon and should have spent at least a few more months in development.
  
  Gameplay:
  Same old CIV goodness, the inclusion of unit XP is something die-hards have been asking 
 for and it's well implemented and fits in the game well. The new Permanent Alliance feature is 
 very interesting and adds some depth to the diplomatic front. The game feels true to the series, 
 progresses faster in some ways and has that "just one more turn" addictiveness to it. Unfortunately, 
 I was hoping there would be a little more added to the diplomatic front, I dunno what exactly, 
 but a little more. It still feels very robotic and contrived to me, although making CPU opponents 
 seem more real and human is very difficult. 
  
  Game Engine:
  The game definately looks better than previous CIVs, but graphics really aren't all that important 
 to the game. Unfortunately, in jumping into the 3D era, CIV IV has made more enemies than friends. 
 There are thousands of people that have unplayable problems with CIV IV. Spend time on different 
 forums and you'll see the littany of problems people are having, particularly people with ATI graphics 
 cards and some Soundblasters. I am running an FX-57, 7800GTX, 2GB RAM, and 2 SATA 7200 RPM HDs, 
 and MY COMPUTER has framerate problems in the late game. And I can NEVER zoom about above cloud 
 level, so I'm forced to stay close to the terrain. Furthermore, loading save games takes WAY WAY 
 WAY too long and the game suffers from long times between late-game turns. It's simply inexcusable. 
 It's not my hardware, it's the programming. I've also experienced way too many drop to desktop 
 and complete power down crashes, something I can put up with to a point, but gets old.
  
  Interface:
  This is where I find the most problems with CIV IV. I really think the interface 
 could use substantial improvements, many of which might have been done if the game had spent more 
 time in development. The city screen is awful in my mind. The center area where you can assign 
 CIVs to tiles is way oversized for what it's needed for. The production queue section [probably 
 the most used] is totally undersized and relegated to the bottom of the city screen. Deciding to 
 use icons for units and buildings was a mistake in that space, it's really annoying to scroll through 
 what you can build late in the game. Also, while you can save production queues, I would have liked 
 the option to view/edit those queues without having to load them into a city. 
  
  I am a customization freak, I'll admit it. I run BBLean as opposed to the default windows shell 
 and really like to tweak things to my liking. Maybe it's unfair of me to criticize CIV IV for lack 
 of interface customization, but I am going to anyway. Anyone familiar with Morrowind can testify 
 to how refreshing it is when you can drag/drop/move menus around to wherever you want on the screen 
 and customize your player screen. I think CIV IV could benefit tremendously from such options, 
 let the user move stuff around, resize things and put them where he/she wants them. Elite CIV players 
 spend a lot of time optimizing individual cities and I'm sure we'd all appreciate such additions. 
 
  
  Conclusions:
  CIV IV is a great game, but fails to make advances on some fronts that I had hoped. Furthermore, 
 the game was released too early, it needed more development. Hopefully a patch will see many of 
 the game-ending problems corrected for the people who can't get the game working properly. So, 
 at this time, I am scoring the game kinda low because of those problems, it isn't fair to game 
 buyers to have them buy a game and have to wait a few months before they can play it properly. 
 Considering that longtime CIV fans would have bought the game whenever it came out, I think Firaxis 
 hurt themselves with the early release, because newcomers might experience a bunch of technical 
 hang ups, and not get into the game like they would have otherwise. 
  Ultimately, I expect that after some patching/fixing the game will be every bit as lasting as others 
 in the series. My scores are all lowered because of what I consider an irresponsibly early release 
 of the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jeffgreen001
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 12, 2005 9:33 pm PT
Review:  The game looks really good to start with. At least after you get past all of the errors. Most of 
 these I found annoying (people who consider themselves clueless with computers may want to wait 
 until the patch is released) but one was plain stupid.
  
  They couldn't even label the 'Play' CD correctly. Use the 'Install' CD if it keeps complaining 
 you are trying to play with the wrong CD inserted.
  
  For Nvidia video cards, ignore the official advise and downgrade your drivers to 71.89. Don't under 
 any circumstances use the latest or you'll be learning new acronyms i. e CTD = crash to desktop. 
 The 71.89 drivers help but they are not a total fix.
  
  Game play seems to be good once you get going. The interface is really nice and very easy to use. 
 I haven't managed to get to the end game as of yet due to the continual CTD's / hangs / freezes 
 and reboots.
  
  The machine this was tested on is well above the "Recommended System Requirements" and has had 
 no problems with any other games played in the last six months. I've packed the game away until 
 the patch is released. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CiscoJP
Rating: 3.2
Date: Nov 12, 2005 6:32 pm PT
Review:  Ok, I've heard tons of great things about the Civ games, and have played some turn-based games 
 in the past. So I picked up Civ 4 expecting to be blown away. And I was... but only by how boring 
 and uninspired it was. I don't know how the previous Civ games were, but Civ 4 just isn't really 
 all that great. I spent more time just clicking the little red button to advance my turn, so I 
 could build a settler or warrior, and it just wasn't fun. Maybe I need to be in it for a few hours, 
 build lots of cities, get involved in some wars, but I don't want to pay $50 for a game and then 
 have to spend 3 or 4 hours playing it before I even become remotely interested. If you like slow-paced, 
 boring, turn-based games, go for Civ 4. If you prefer RTS, go for Age of Empres, or Empire Earth. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: randyrmccoy
Rating: 7.2
Date: Nov 12, 2005 4:42 pm PT
Review:  First off I would like to mention the various bugs with the game. The music at times skips. Many 
 graphical errors may crop up making the game crash or unplayable. The game also takes up up allot 
 of memory, I have a half gig of ram and the game seems to slow down at times. I find myself waiting 
 5-10 min waiting just to load a saved game.
  
  On the positive side the game seems to be better paced than the the previous versions. The tech 
 tree was paired down since previous versions of the game, making it more manageable. The design 
 team had removed or made better some the faults of the previous games; such as corruption, or the 
 annoying city riots. The AI is much more realistic, I have to say that AI in this game is the best 
 I have seen in a strategy game to date. 
  
  I wouldn't recommend buying this game until a few patches are made for it. The tech support for 
 the game seems to be a no show, you will probably have to try and fix any major problems yourself. 
 The civ series has amassed a large following, you can probably find a fix for most of the technical 
 problems of the game on a fan site. www. apolyton. net is a good site to check out for more info 
 on the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Grungee
Rating: 9.7
Date: Nov 12, 2005 4:09 pm PT
Review:  This is the bleary-eyed, one more turn, I must defeat the French, I'm so close to getting nukes, 
 I can't believe it's 4 AM strategy perfection game! If you loved Civilization I, II, or III, you 
 must play this game.
  
  I must warn you. If you love your significant other, have job obligations, or school you can kiss 
 it all goodbye. This is the game that will make you forget about real life. Heck, it's so darned 
 good it will make you forget about other games entirely. Yes, even World Of Warcraft will be left 
 cold on the hard drive if you begin playing this game.
  
  Do not get this game if you have or value your life. For the rest of you nerds out there - go ahead. 
 The sun is your enemy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: andante79
Rating: 7.1
Date: Nov 12, 2005 3:04 pm PT
Review:  As an experienced Civ-player that has played all Civilization titles from Sid Meier starting with 
 the original Civilization, the the licenced Call to Power series, expectations have been high for 
 the forth release.
  
  After playing Civ IV for some time now, one cannot escape the though that Civ IV is what Civ III 
 should have been. Graphically, the game is a huge upgrade from Civ III. The voice of Star Trek 
 Spook and reintroduction of old soundtracks gives alot of moods and nostalgy.
  
  However, as everyone is takling about the superb things about the game, I'll dedicate my review 
 to what I think is a dissepointment.
  
  I looked farward to play Alexander the Great building a huge ancient army and build an empire worthy 
 of greatness. I've tried and tried with "epic" and "normal" mode (gamespeed) to build my empires. 
 Yet, the speed from 4000 BC to 1100 AD rushes away in short time. If lucky you have probably gotten 
 ten cities and a small army. You probably dont have all the historical ancient technologies by 
 this time as you should, and suddenly your technology rushes ahead as weel.. suddenly entering 
 feudalism. Where is mye massiv fleet of Trieremes? And where is the collosal battle of Troy with 
 phalanxes clashing together? Most game you build a spearman that you end up upgrading before you 
 use it. My point is that the game timeframe goes way to fast is some sections of the game. It should 
 allow players to play more in ancient times.
  
  Im not a fan of special civilization units. Reason... they are historically correct, but destroys 
 your quest to play historically. If you are Alexander you probably dont get to use your units before 
 your enemies have better technology. No point of having hoplites in 1100 AD. Secondly, if you are 
 the Americans your navy seals is not available before your probably are dead anyway. This focus 
 on special units destroys a lot of the gameplay.
  
  A spearman should be upgraded to a phalanx, to a hoplite to a legion... before you enter feudalism 
 - regardless of the civilization. But perhaps the romans have some legion bonuses, or the Greek 
 has a special sword. My point is that one cannot combine historical accuracy and gameplay fiction 
 as Americans never existed in 4000 BC. Instead, the techtree should be more complex allowing alternetive 
 forms of armored tanks, rifles, swords etc... but all the units beeing available for research by 
 any civilization.
  
  The timeframe and the special units concept makes the game unbalanced, and reduces the gameplay 
 experience. These are my main critics of the game so far. It's a strategy game, so lets get loads 
 of units early, building great empires like the Sumerians/Egyptians did. A make the civilizations 
 more alike to make equal challange possible. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: travellinghoty
Rating: 9.8
Date: Nov 12, 2005 2:05 pm PT
Review:  one of the greatest demos I ve played. I hope to buy the game .sid mier out did himself .This game 
 is highly addictive and smartly done. it gives you chance to lead a culture to which ever path you 
 choose. with great challages along the way. this game also lets you get down into the fight scene. has 
 great landscap layout. plus you can choose it too. I would recomened this game to anyone that enjoys 
 real time stradegy games. its is also a well know game that will teach you leadership. Civilaztion 
 3 and 4 are wonderful games for any age. It is easy to learn it and than dive right into the game. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jamesgelfand
Rating: 6
Date: Nov 12, 2005 11:25 am PT
Review:  Alpha Centauri and the other Civ games were better. This one seems like a Civ 3.5 . It's not all 
 it's cracked up to be. It's fun but after a while it gets repetetive. Alpha Centauri is Sid's masterpiece. 
 It's addictive and way more fun. In Alpha Centauri you get factions breaking alliances and attacking 
 you together. I was able to win the game without one miltary unit. It's a bit updated but all the 
 civs are the same. The other world leaders just say the same thing over and over again. Religion 
 isn't that great. Great People don't do anything and it's dull. Get Civ 3 or Alpha Centauri, it's 
 cheaper and more fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dthwish09
Rating: 9.8
Date: Nov 12, 2005 5:49 am PT
Review:  Personally I thought that I wouldn't like this game but I got my hands on a copy and it was the 
 single best game I had played all year. It is slightly complicated but it makes alot more sence 
 in time and becomes easy/funner to play. I hadn't played any past Civilization games but now I 
 know if they make another one I will definatly pick it up. 
  
  Personally I thought that I wouldn't like this game but I got my hands on a copy and it was the 
 single best game I had played all year. It is slightly complicated but it makes alot more sence 
 in time and becomes easy/funner to play. I hadn't played any past Civilization games but now I 
 know if they make another one I will definatly pick it up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mhandschuh
Rating: 9.6
Date: Nov 11, 2005 10:22 pm PT
Review:  Civilization IV stays true to everything the Civilization series stands for:
  
  Highly Addictive Epic Strategy.
  
  Civilization IV is a blending of the highly in depth game 
 play that Civ fans have grown accustomed while adding many new and interesting game play pieces 
 to the mix. 
  
  For those of you who know nothing or little of the Civilization series here's a brief overview 
 of the game play. Game play consists of a historical turn-based in depth strategy game complete 
 with a tech tree and a myriad of resources for the harvesting. Basically what that all translates 
 to is all to use for your own strategic purposes making no two games the same. In this review I'll 
 touch on the best additions to this fourth installment to the Civilization series.
  
  Probably the best addition to the series is the game speed. Civilization IV now allows you to choose 
 from one of three game speeds: Epic, Normal, and Quick. The Epic game speed is for the true die 
 hard fans. I've played one game on epic and it truly is epic. I recommend playing it over the course 
 of the week and on a Huge map for maximum epic scale. Normal is the same as what we've all come 
 to love from previous Civ games. I myself have been a fan of the RTS genre, and the Quick game 
 speed is just amazing for when I don't have enough time to play a normal paced game. I'm able to 
 fit an entire game in during a lunch break. Also, you're able to start out in a certain age pre-game. 
 This option gives you all technologies prior to the age selected. The age selection option also 
 shortens games for those of you who don't like the extreme length or just don't like having to 
 research the beginning techs.
  
  Another wonderful new aspect introduced in Civilization IV is the religion system. Religions are 
 founded when a player is the first on the map to research a specific tech that corresponds to a 
 specific religion. Having different religions represented in cities and the construction of buildings 
 for those religions can increase the happiness of your citizens. Also having the same religion 
 as an AI greatly improves the relationship between the two. However, religion is also grounds for 
 declining relations if you convert your empire to a "heathen religion." Also, now you can make 
 missionaries to spread your religion to other cities and even to other empires. This is good for 
 improving relations with AI or even for gaining line of sight early in the game with your harmless 
 missionaries.
  
  A bigger addition to the game includes the Great People. Certain buildings and Wonders will increase 
 your chances of building a Great People. There are five types of Great People: Prophet, Merchant, 
 Scientist, Engineer, and Artist. Each of these Great People have special abilities than can be 
 used for a myriad of strategic reasons. Each city holds the ability to generate one of these Great 
 People, but must first gather enough "Great People Points." On Normal game speed you need 100 points 
 for the first, 200 for the second, and so on. Great People points can be generated in one of three 
 ways: Wonders, Civics, and the use of Specialists inside a city. Also, there are a few techs that 
 will give you a Great Person if you are the first to research it. Possibly the best result from 
 2 Great People would be a Golden Age. Golden Ages are triggered by having at least 2 Great People 
 and then using them to spark the Golden Age. These Great People and their uses open up a whole 
 new myriad of tactics through the usage and accumulation of Great People.
  
  A wonderful addition on the side of defense and trade relies on the new Open Borders policy. At 
 the start, your borders are closed to everyone, and then you may decide to whom you open them. 
 The key here is that you won't have non-warring civs in your territory either spying on you or 
 accumulating armies for a surprise attack. Also, to trade with someone, you must have your borders 
 open. Another good thing that comes from the open borders policy is relations. Maintaining a good 
 relation with a civ plus an open borders policy with trade is a wonderful way to obtain an ally 
 when you're attacked by an aggressor nation.
  
  Speaking of wars, the entire combat system has been reformatted for the better. Now, units have 
 generic strength and can be promoted, or naturally have, bonuses against other unit types or cities. 
 For example, a Swordsman automatically has a bonus while attacking cities, whereas a Machine Gunner 
 has a big defensive bonus. These strength modifiers usually are the difference in any battle. Building 
 a barracks in a city producing any ground units allows you to give them a promotion right from 
 the get-go. This makes your units stronger in a certain area. Also, before attacking you are able 
 to see your odds of winning that battle with all the modifiers included. I would recommend odds 
 of at least 10% in your favor unless you have overwhelming numbers and are able to take losses 
 for a key city. All of these add-ons make warring much more efficient and allow you to control 
 your civ to the best of your abilities.
  
  One downside to the combat system lies in nukes. Everyone loves nuking someone, I mean it's just 
 cool, but for some reason you're only able to send nukes to certain tiles, where the cursor turns 
 green. I don't know why the people over at Firaxis did this but it would be much more realistic 
 for me to nuke a city rather than an improvement. Also, nukes are like the epitome of technology 
 in the late game so I was expecting much better graphics for the nuking of a tile. It would have 
 been awesome if there was a cut scene every time you nuked someone to see their city/improvement/army 
 stack be filled with flaming radiation.
  
  All in all, I hold no real problems with the game play in Civilization IV. The guys over at Firaxis 
 did an outstanding job maintaining and improving upon this wonderful franchise. Graphics for the 
 game are very, very good for a turn based game. They're nothing ground-breaking, but easy on the 
 eyes nonetheless. The sounds and music in Civ IV are awesome. I especially like the main menu song, 
 it gets me ready for a good game. I bought Civ IV for 45 bucks and say its well worth the price. 
 Prepare to become addicted. Prepare to lose sleep. Prepare to become civilized. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: irish27
Rating: 8.7
Date: Nov 11, 2005 7:11 pm PT
Review:  I am a Civ fan going back to the original. This game feels like an update more than a new Civ game. 
 Civ 3 was a pretty major overhaul, but this one seems to add a few new features and leave it at 
 that. Still, I would be happy with that but I am having many technical difficulites with the game. 
 I like to play a huge map and a long game, by the time my games get near completion I am having 
 lockups every 10 turns or so. Civ 4 seems to be a major resource hog for no reason. The graphics 
 are not revolutionary in any way, and are soundly beaten by titles such as Command and Conquer 
 Generals yet this game runs very slow on a huge map. 
  
  I guess I am most dissapointed that there are not any major unit, time scale or technology additions 
 to speak of. I would like to see the series take a major leap forward. How about playing out the 
 earth game then being able to choose to play Alpha Centauri with your original culture. That would 
 have been an update worth talking about! 
  
  All in all this game is not better or worse than Civ 3. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mobes83
Rating: 8.6
Date: Nov 11, 2005 10:49 am PT
Review:  The bugs are a big negative but if you can get over them the gameplay is the best since CivII. 
 I hope that they fix the bugs and this game will be played for years and years to come. Graphics 
 suck on my computer because of difficulties with my graphics card but it fixes itself later on 
 in the game. This game is still highly addictive and many days will be lost in the playing of it. 
 Firaxis is trying hard to fix the game and i think that they will, its just a matter of time. Its 
 definitely worth the purchase as long as it will work on your computer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: heavensblade
Rating: 8.1
Date: Nov 11, 2005 6:23 am PT
Review:  This game is very good and builds upon the previous Civ games quite nicely. There are a lot of 
 new features from the last civ game that i played (civ 2) so if any of the features i talk about 
 already exist in civ 3, forgive my ignorance.
  
  The first thing that hits you when you start a new game is that it is 3D, gone are the days of 
 2D playing pieces on a flat world. You can zoom your camera in and look at a city in great detail 
 and see all the buildings your city has built. You can zoom out and see the explored area of the 
 known world. You also get to see combat in 3D as units whack each other.
  
  Religion is introduced in this edition of ci and its impact on you game depends on you. You can 
 ignore it if you like and it wont effect you negatively, however, if you choose to utilise it, 
 be aware that it is a 2 edged sword. Religion can greatly help your civ out but by the same token, 
 it can influence what other civs think of you. A conflicting religion choose may mean a holy war 
 is fought against you (or you may wage on on a heathen civ) .
  
  There are alot more features but these 2 stand out the most for me, if i were to elaborate on more, 
 this review will get to long. The problem with this game is the huge technical problems that some 
 players have faced. Many players can't even start the game and many still face countly crashes. 
 It seems that Civ4 is not compatible with ATI cards and to some extent NVIDIA cards either. The 
 forums are full of people that can't get a game running or if they do it stutters and crashes. 
 There is huge memory leak problem, i've noticed that if i run civ4 for a while, it eats up over 
 700mb of ram. There have been some many problems. The ones i personally have is the corrupted wonder 
 movies, religious movies and diplomatic negotiation screens, the stuttering of sound, garbled graphics 
 and world map occasionally and the huge memory leak.
  
  If you are lucky enough to have a configation that runs civ 4 then its a great game, otherwise 
 its a gamble as to what you get. I say wait until there is a stable version.
  
  For comparison my specs are:
  
  AMD 64 3200 processor
  1024 RAM (3200)
  2 GB Virtual memory 
 paging file
  ATI Radeon 9800XT
  2 x SATA 120 GB drive 
::::::

::::::
UserName: olilpe
Rating: 9.6
Date: Nov 11, 2005 2:50 am PT
Review:  Civilization IV improves game play from civ 3 in many small, large and huge parts of the game. 
 The designers have implemented a lot of the civ community's requests. Here is a list of changes 
 that I enjoy the most, and some of the drawback of the game.
  
  Although the game is well balanced and well tested, it has some major bugs that cause crashes especially 
 on older systems. I couldn't see the world wonder movies until I changed my Radeon driver to an 
 older version (I got a hint from civ fanatics forum) . The developers are working on a patch, that 
 should fix most problems. Most users don't experience problems.
  
  The improved graphics look great, although they are a bit heavy for my outdated system. The possibility 
 to zoom in and change the viewing angle (by 45 degrees) is nice. Tired of your empire looking the 
 same? Rotate the angle, and it suddenly looks totally different!
  
  The musics and ambient sounds are awesome. I have been hearing the main menu song in my sleep. 
 The use of the greatest classical masterpieces as a background music tingles my nerves no end. 
 And let's not forget mr. Nimoy...
  
  Bringing religion into the picture works really well. The player now has an option of concentrating 
 on one religion or embracing them all, and the results are totally different. The animosity that 
 different religion create between nations brings the game concerningly close to real life. 
  
  The combat changes are superb. The specific bonuses against certain units types (like spear 
 vs. mounted) that most units get force the player to produce different units for different purposes. 
 If I attack a city with a chariot and an axeman, the bugger defended with a spearman against the 
 chariot (+100% strength) and with an archer against the axeman (negates the bonus the axeman receives 
 against melee units) . Argh! I need a catapult (or five) ... And when I get five catapults, the computer 
 attacks my whole stack with his own catapults damaging all units... 
  
  Capturing a city in civ 4 requires a lot of strategic planning beforehand. This makes it even more 
 satisfying to finally capture it. I also like the promotions, that enable to create specialists. 
 By exp lvl 5 I usually name my units. It rips me apart to see my Mannerheim get killed.
  
  Great people are also a nice addition to the game. All of them are great, except maybe the great 
 'golden age' merchant. I get a small warm feeling every time I send a great artist to create a 
 masterwork in a captured border town. 
  
  The added resources, worker improvements and specially the hamlet are great. The resources that 
 surround my capital totally dictate the first technologies I research, which makes every game start 
 differently.
  
  All in all I just love the game. It is many times deeper and better that it's predecessor. I warmly 
 recommend the game to any fan of the franchise, and to others, who aren't looking for a fast paced 
 RTS, but for an intensive, rewarding, intuitive, yet extremely challenging game of world domination. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tomgamer90
Rating: 9.3
Date: Nov 10, 2005 8:33 pm PT
Review:  Out of all the civilization games Civilization IV ranks at the top of my list. Civilization IV 
 will not only amaze/entertain fans but also newcomers to the genre and/or to the individual game 
 itself will find that the game is relatively easy to figure out and learn to play. Civilization 
 IV not only has great graphics, amazing gameplay, and wonderful campaigns but it also even has 
 incredible multiplayer of which the game has been customly designed for to make multiplayer more 
 enjoyable. Another aspect of multiplayer that has improved the game is being able to play in hot 
 seat mode in which 2 players play on one screen each taking turns. Civilization IV overall exceeds 
 in all areas not only in comparison to its predecessors but also as an individual game. Civilization 
 IV really is an individual game because past players will come to realize that it is very different 
 and has new styles of gameplay to learn. Civilization IV is amazing! Pick this over AOE III because 
 you won't regret it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ultimate-Playa
Rating: 4.3
Date: Nov 10, 2005 8:13 pm PT
Review:  Okay this game have good concept, good design, good gameplay, and good everything espically this 
 game is a basically a BETA game sold away for 50 Dollars an incredibly BUGGED game go check out 
 CIV fan sites they are the witnesses to the god's truth I have bought this game and threw it to 
 hell after it was bugged like Satan have came to pick his preys to feast upon. 
  
  www. civfanatics. com is the truth to everything related to CIV4 also a avid fanbase for CIV3, CIV2, 
 and the original CIV.
  
  Everything in that game is screwed up coding, programming, 90% of game's coding is messed up and 
 all mixed up it shouldn't have been released early it should have contiuned with the regular release 
 date... Perhaps Firaxis no longer care about it's fanbase.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ben_lindley
Rating: 3.1
Date: Nov 10, 2005 8:05 pm PT
Review:  Why are companies releasing games before the bugs are fixed? Why no patch yet? And what is up with 
 the advisors? Compared to the last Civ they're non-existent! Don't get me wrong this game could 
 be good but it needs some work yet and shouldn't have been released. On the positive, the music 
 is great, I like the new feature for road building. The wonder videos are nice, but no palace? 
 I also with that the companies would have looked past the name Civilization and actually reviewed 
 the game so I would have waited until the bugs were fixed when I bought it! Overall when the game 
 is fixed it will be good but not as good as it could be, I expected more. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: diesel_dejavu
Rating: 1.6
Date: Nov 10, 2005 7:03 pm PT
Review:  The Civilization series are by far my favorite games to play. I enjoyed all of them, even Call 
 to Arms. They loaded easily and had few bugs. I am already soured about Civ Iv and i havent even 
 played it yet! It appears I have one of the boxes that included improperly labeled discs. Disc 
 1 "install" will install, but disc 2 "play" doesnt play. The 2K website help tells you to simply 
 use disc 1 as your game disc, however that doesnt work. The game loads to a blank menu screen and 
 just sits there. No game, no options, only music and a spinning earth. La di da! Combine this problem 
 with the other bugs and system requirement problems mentioned in other gamer reviews and what you 
 have is major production let down from Firaxis and 2K. I thought about not writing this review 
 until I actually got to play the game, but I felt compelled to warn gamers before they go out and 
 buy this title that they may have a ton of work ahead of them before they get their first settler 
 unit! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: scrapped69
Rating: 9.3
Date: Nov 11, 2005 12:40 am PT
Review:  With a massive population, and many civs on the map this game will chug on you. I've got a gig 
 of ram, 2.8p4, and a 6800 Ultra under the hood, but end game in civ4 with the largest maps and 
 all civs still alive beasts my system. 
  I'm waiting for the patch that might help this problem like many others. 
  
  All this being 
 said Civ 4 is an excellent game. Buggin and chuggin I still want to play into the night. How many 
 games can you sit through some chuggin? Let alone how many turn based games can you sit through 
 chug?
  
  Civ2 was the last of the series I played, but I can't say I feel bad for skipping civ3. Civ4 is 
 all it's cracked up to be. City management at first appears lacking, so does the new religion system, 
 but after a couple hours you will see exactly how well placed and designed these new systems are. 
 
  
  Tell your friends, play this game and long live The Republic of Texas :P
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: revolutionbr
Rating: 9.6
Date: Nov 10, 2005 10:25 am PT
Review:  You can't stop playing! Excellent game! Best of civilization series game, highly addictive.
  Graphics are outstanding, all playable scenarios are an unique experience, i'd recommend the Mediterran 
 Sea campagin and the American Revolution one.
  Negative aspects? Well, this game lacks something that was a classic on other civs games: The Palace 
 or Throne Room (depending on which civ game u're talking about) , i miss the "you citzens are happy, 
 they want to improve your palace"...
  Game is better balanced, Nuke won't give you god-like powers like other civs games, barbarians 
 are now "intelligent", not a bunch or city raiders, they build towns, steal your workers, etc
 
  Game soundtrack is one of the best of Civ Series, i liked the menu music and the one that is played 
 on modern age (sounds like matrix movie soundtrack)
  And finally, diplomacy is the best one! Thumbs up! Positive points for positive relations and you 
 get negative points for being arrogant, declaring war etc.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: D1rty_Dawg
Rating: 9.4
Date: Nov 10, 2005 3:29 am PT
Review:  I have loved all the previous incarmations of the Civ games and this one is no less impressive. 
 It is polished so much that it shines.
  
  But what is going on with the installation? I had no end of grief just getting the damn thing installed 
 and running. Very poor.
  
  Just in case anyone else ever gets this, I have an ATI video card and wanted to install the game 
 into a different directory than the standard one it suggests.
  
  It all installed fine but I kept getting an error that my video card or DirectX drivers were out 
 of date and needed to be updated. This was not true as I run GameShadow and it showed everything 
 up to date plus every other game I play on it ran fine.
  
  So I went to their support site and on there it stated that the problem was with the ATI video 
 card. So it went through the whole 'remove the game, remove the directX drivers, remove the ATI 
 video drivers' and reboot the system and then re-install them all but put the game into the default 
 area this time. I did this and still got the same error.
  
  Then reading a bit further down the page, there was a small entry about a file unpacking utility 
 that needed to be run on one of the folders. So I put the game back into the directory where I 
 initially wanted it and ran this tool and guess what, the game ran first time.
  
  It turns out that during the installation one of the .pak files that contain a load of textures 
 and stuff does not get unpacked correctly if you have an ATI video card and install to a directory 
 other than the default. I did not think that this sort of stuff happened these days, it has been 
 so long since I last had to muck about just getting a game to install and run. Very poor!
  
  But anyway I got it working eventually and started playing. THIS GAME ROCKS. I went through 
 the tutorials (thats about as far as I have gotten so far) and it is very, very, very good. This 
 game will suck up your free time and any other time you have as well. Be prepared to not see much 
 of the outside world if you start playing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rbader
Rating: 5.8
Date: Nov 9, 2005 8:14 pm PT
Review:  This game had a lot going for it until you realize how small the worlds are and that you can't 
 play for more than an hour without haveing the game crash.
  My system specs far exceed the the games recommended system reqs, yet the game is very shaky. Not 
 too far into any descently sized game, which I tend to think are the most fun, the game can crash 
 or freeze up at any time. All you have to do for this to happen is scroll arcoss the screen for 
 a few seconds.
  Now I know my system isn't the cutting edge anymore, 
  2.6Ghs P4
  1024 ram
  GeForce 5700 256MB
  but it should be able to run this game without crashing. Even 
 on the lowest graphical settings this can't be avoided. When I thought the answer to these issues 
 could be found on the internet I was sorely mistaken. Message boards everywhere where filled with 
 tales of top o the line machines crashing and misleading tech support from 2K Games messing up 
 peoples operating systems.
  I' d stay away until these issues have been resolved.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Alkaholic
Rating: 8.8
Date: Nov 9, 2005 7:23 pm PT
Review:  To be honest there was not much that I thought could be inproved on civ III. But they found just 
 the right places for improvement, the game is pretty much the same as the old one with a few new 
 concepts and small changes every where. Of course the graphics look better but who cares, civ isn't 
 strong nor is it loved for visual quality. The good: The religoin plays into the game quite well, 
 new units and new civs, units can gain expeirience. Overall it is a good game, but there was some 
 bad. For example, there is not much there, when I think about it I believe civ III with the expansions 
 had much more than this civ does, although I'm sure there will be expansions with more content 
 it doesn't make me happy, seeing as the game didn't improve much anyways. After I have played the 
 game for a week I was rather disapointed, although it is still the fun addictive game that any 
 civ III was, it certaintly needs a lot of work and doesn't seem to be much better than the last. 
 I was promised ai that was not stupid, so for the ai are okay, however it doesn't seem like they 
 were improved on. I was promised more diplomatic options, instead I was limmited them, you can't 
 trade a tech for some wines, for example, and there aren't more complex deals that can be made 
 with allainces and such. I was very disapointed when my friend and I who play hot seat all the 
 time found out that only I could give him techs, maps, money, and resources, but could not. I did 
 some experimenting but in the end I can't quite figure out what it is. I was also promised that 
 no spearmen would be able to kill my tanks, I was surprised when I saw my SEALs falling at the 
 hands of enemy archers, the we're even wiped out by riflemen and still the riflemen were able to 
 kill my mechanized infantry! Not cool, do you realy think someone with a muzle loading rifle could 
 dent the side of a Panzer? Another thing that saddened me was the pace, I preffer to let everything 
 settle in instead of quick change, I had it on normal speed. The technologies flew past so fast 
 that I didn't even have time to build one spearmen and as soon as I got my newest unit build it 
 became outdated by my own advances. Biulding things fast is nice, but please let them hang around 
 for a while, fight a few wars with those pikemen before the crusades are over and george bush comes 
 rolling into Iraq with tanks, althouth there is an epoch speed, I noticed that the production was 
 also slow. This brings me to my last point, I was unnable to find a map editor that would allow 
 me to tweek the game to mym own preffered settings. In all I am sure that there will be expansions 
 to improve on the game.
  I didn't want ot give it a bad review, I liek the game, and I'm sure there are a ton of people 
 who would rather play it the way it was made then change it to the way I prefer. If I were a teacher 
 grading this game I'd give it an A- for good effort. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: joelsaxton
Rating: 4.9
Date: Nov 9, 2005 6:41 pm PT
Review:  Say NO to BETA software. This game is not ready for prime time. There are so many bugs I don't 
 even have space to list them all. One strange thing I experienced was the audio playing low pitched 
 guttural grunts instead of actual voices. Additionally, the game will intermittently fail to launch 
 - it will display the "starting XML" message, then it disappears. Simply unacceptable. When I do 
 get it to run, I notice the graphics are impressive, and the gameplay is ok, although so far I 
 have not "gotten it". My main concern is the unforgivable lack of stability and myriad bugs - this 
 smoldering digital wreckage was obviously rushed to release. Go to Amazon. com for a comprehensive 
 list of user complaints. As a paying, unwitting beta-tester I feel it is my job to warn the rest 
 of you. Also, 2k Games technical support is absolutely deplorable. Wait for a patch - hell, wait 
 for two. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Errore404
Rating: 8.9
Date: Nov 9, 2005 4:31 pm PT
Review:  First thing first: I'm not blind nor a fanatic fanboy. :) I heard about all the bugs in the game 
 and I'm aware that it's not the absolute perfection, even if I've experienced only a few of those 
 bugs, all related to the HUGE consumption of RAM, which cause the game to freeze and go back to 
 the desktop after a while. That said, now to the game! I'll part the game in 3 sections. Gameplay, 
 graphics/sound and conclusion.
  
  Gameplay:
  What can be said about a virtually infinite game? There are so many choises to be made and strategies 
 to be uncovered that it's hard to talk about "gameplay". I can say there are a lot of innovations 
 for us to enjoy. New graphics - but this's just the interface, nothing more - new diplomatic ways 
 to deal with the computer controlled civilizations, new war system and new general concepts. Just 
 a few of them: there is not anymore the "standard worker" that's used for mines or farms. Now the 
 worker can impove the land with 15 different tipes of modifications, making the creation of a city 
 more deep. You can so specialize one for food and one for incoming gold and so on. The war system 
 would need a review alone! No more attack and defence point but only one: strenght. What can make 
 the difference between life of death of our units? Promotions! Making war creates experience point 
 inour units and those can gain levels (like in the RPG games) and then we can promote them. Anphibius 
 assault, improved combat stranght, more defence in the jungle and so on... I could say more and 
 more of the changes from civ3 but I think the besst way to find out everything is to try it on 
 our own :)
  
  Graphics/Sound:
  This's the first civilization that uses 3d graphics (from the sid meier's pirates! engine) and 
 you can see it from the numerous screenshot here on GameSpot. Simply incredible for a fan of the 
 series, used to 2d graphics (and never up-to-date) . The screen is full of icons and there's a lot 
 to learn and to control but nothing really impossible or graphically incorrect. The screen is well 
 composed and very clear, you hate just to get used to it. There're reported some glitches whit 
 ATI-powered cards and a patch is on the way (if you cannot wait, the community at civfanatics and 
 apolyton already found a solution) . For the sound - well - just the opening menu song is amazing, 
 for the in-game audio the developers used some classic music from Bach and others classic-age composers 
 along with deep nature sound in the earlier stage of the game. Every "age" has it's own set of 
 music files and - something you have to consider - there's a folder created to override the provided 
 sound so that we can put what we want and hear something we like better.
  
  Conclusion:
  Nothing to say really. If it's not for the - incredibly large - number of bugs, we can asy this's 
 a masterpiece. Hands down. If we consider the bugs and nothing more we can say it's a game we should 
 buy in the middle of the 2006 (when the most of them should be only a memory) . For now I just say 
 we can use it and test the huge power of all his innovating options. Just a word about the required 
 specification: like all the new generation games (that makes me think about F1GP2 that was a game 
 developed for a pentium processor when the only one you could buy at that time was 486...) we have 
 to use a high-end computer to make it run with a huge map and 18 civilization. You can still run 
 it on standard maps and enjoy it a lot but this game required HUGE amount of RAM and virtual memory 
 so be warned! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: umjackdaniels
Rating: 8.6
Date: Nov 9, 2005 2:01 pm PT
Review:  Civ4 is just as addictive as its predecessors, and Sid Meier got us again with his attention to 
 depth. I'll be buying Civ games until the day there are no more. 
  
  Quick plusses:
  - Leonard Nimoy. Very cool. 
  - Religion really does make an interesting card to play. 
  - 
 3D graphics engine brings the world even more to life. 
  - Improved cities on the main map screen... Being able to see your wonders and city improvements 
 idly really makes it feel just that much larger. Being able to zoom in to hear cultural music is 
 a really nice touch. 
  - Multiple models in a unit is a nice touch. It helps with the feeling that you do indeed have 
 more than one swordsman in that unit. 
  - There are numerous homages to past Civ games which are great to pick up. 
  - The expansion 
 of the cultural game is just immense, with all the new projects and wonders. 
  - Love the music. 
  - Easy moddability seems a big plus. Civ games always tended to leave their 
 files wide open for tampering, so I suppose this is a way to encourage something good out of that. 
 
  
  Quick minuses:
  - Normal setting is really rather fast. It feels like the slowest setting, Epic, is the only way 
 to actually use each historical era fully, otherwise you end up maybe starting a war, and be able 
 to upgrade your units halfway through, which takes away the immersion. 
  - Civipedia seems gutted compared to previous Civ games. Before, almost every entry had a detailed 
 description and history about it, which is sadly lacking here. 
  - A little more uniqueness in the Civ-specific special units might have been nice. 
  - Very minor 
 minus, but it seems like there's too large a difference between Standard map size and Large map 
 size. 
  - Increased customizability for world maps on creating a custom game would have been nice, with 
 more options. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MN
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 9, 2005 9:41 am PT
Review:  I was starting to think I was the only one till I read the reviews. With 2 systems, one P4 desktop 
 & the other an X64 laptop, both exceeding the recomended requirements I have had the same results 
 with game & sometimes systems crashes. 
  I'm a BIG fan of Civ series & while playing Civ 4 it's fantastic. However, I would recomend using 
 smaller maps until issues are resolved. My friends have seen no problem using smaller maps. I however 
 chose the largest terra map & epic mode to jump into Civ 4 with. At the start everything works 
 great but late in the game it becomes unstable & starts getting buggy. Scrolling too quickly across 
 the map causes the game to hang & crash at increasingly frequent rates. Turning video settings 
 down & turning off sound options help greatly, but as you advanced further the game becomes unstable 
 again.
  Until a patch comes out to correct this I cannot recommend this game.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: durzagott
Rating: 9.6
Date: Nov 9, 2005 9:23 am PT
Review:  Let me get this out in the open straight away - Civilization IV rocks. It is by far the best of 
 the series to date and don't let anyone tell you different.
  
  Before I had chance to play the game my heart almost dropped when I read some of the negative reader-reviews 
 here. I can happily report that the negativity is totally unfounded. I will concede, however, that 
 the game is fairly resource hungry. Personally I recommend a gig of RAM (which you really should 
 have anyway; RAM is cheap) . On older computers you may find a less-than-stellar experience, but 
 for those of us with newer systems the Best just got better...
  
  The Civilization games have always been my favourite on the PC. I've been playing them since version 
 one and they've been a real danger to my social life. I must confess, however, that I am not one 
 of these geniuses who can conquer Emperor mode (or anything close) . I choose the medium difficulty 
 and have a damn good time playing it. The good news is that the game will appeal to all difficulty 
 levels. N00bs, vets, and l33t h4x0rz will all have an absolute blast with it.
  
  Civ 4 is not just a rehash of the older Civ games. Yes, it is fundementally the same game, but 
 the changes the team have made are a breath of fresh air for the series. Many of the annoyances 
 of the previous games have been tidied up and many of the concepts have been improved upon. I won't 
 go into the details (Gamespots review is very comprehensive) , but I will say that the improvements 
 are so much more than just bug fixing. Think revolution rather than evolution.
  
  If you are torn between buying the game and not buying it, out of fear of disappointment, go and 
 buy it. Trust me, you will not be let down. In fact, you will begin to wonder how you ever managed 
 to play any of the other versions. I've said it before and I'll say it again - Civilization IV 
 rocks.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Felix928
Rating: 9.6
Date: Nov 8, 2005 10:27 pm PT
Review:  I'll skip all the standard review stuff and just get to the things that I feel a turn-based strategy 
 gamer would like to know about Civ 4 (CIV) .
  
  First thing... Multiplayer finally works with CIV. Previous versions always felt wrong when playing 
 over the internet. This latest installment finally makes multiplayer Civ feel like single player 
 Civ but with really unique AI playing some of the other Civs. The multitude of options available 
 when configuring a game make it so that hosts can easily enforce the kind of game they want to 
 play inside the game directly. I've played a few Simultaneous Turns, Co-op games and had a real 
 good time. Direct IP connection is available so there is no need to use GameSpy if you already 
 know of a few other Civvers looking for a game.
  
  Combat has been made more interesting in a few ways. I really enjoy the extra little touches that 
 Firaxis has included with the move to 3D, most notably during combat sequences. The little units 
 move in groups and actually engage one another in combat, so the fights take on an interesting 
 suspense as each of your men fall or take out an opposing unit. The unit promotions system allows 
 you to build different "divisions" in your army or navy to handle different combat situations. 
 It's an added layer of complexity that is very fun and manages to be full of options without feeling 
 "micromanage-ish".
  
  The expanded resource system takes my favorite part of Civ 3 and builds it out 10 fold. I love 
 what they've done by introducing additional resource types into the early game. Firaxis didn't 
 just take the easy way out by cookie-cutter adding the same resources with different names... They 
 actually managed to make the whole system more fun by introducing whole new game concepts tied 
 to each class of resource. Take food for instance... In Civ 3, food resources granted you a bump 
 in tile productivity and that was it. With CIV, there is now the concept of "Health" to wrestle 
 with, and finding additional food resources is a great way to improve the health of your empire. 
 A healthy empire means bigger cities, and bigger cities means more production, so even something 
 as simple as a rice paddy can make a noticeable difference in the mid game.
  
  I could go on and on about the new and improved game systems they've introduced with this iteration 
 of the franchise. When you play CIV you really get the feeling that the game is a polished and 
 complete strategy experience. From the music to the sound effects (all the units actually speak 
 in the language of the civ they belong to... it is very cool) to the awesome zoom capabilities 
 of the game engine (you can finally see the world as a sphere instead of a big flat swath of land) 
 CIV sucks you right in and has you up way past your bedtime.
  
  Buy it and enjoy. It is by far the best Civ game ever. And yes, it is even better than Civ 2... 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lord_altan
Rating: 3
Date: Nov 8, 2005 10:12 pm PT
Review:  You know, not a long time ago, I was looking through these reviews and I saw 9s and 10s and I 
 thought to myself, Wow, this game must totally kick ass Yet, as with most gamer reviews, I came 
 across a couple 2's and 3's as well, and again I thought, Id hate to be that poor bastard who 
 got screwed over Well, now that I own the game, I can honestly and truthfully say, "WTF?"
  
  Okay, I'm going to try and take a neutral standpoint here. I'm not a *huge* fan of the Civilization 
 series, but then again, I'm not indifferent with it, either. I played, fell in love with, and then 
 grew bored of Civilization III, and that was about it... until I heard about Civilization IV. So, 
 needless to say, I was looking forward to playing it. And, to this very second, even though I went 
 out and bought it, I can still say that I am still looking forward to playing it. Why don't I, 
 you ask? Simple: I can't... it just doesn't work.
  
  There are a lot, and I mean to place emphasis on 'A LOT' of technical bugs that need to be worked 
 out and then patched up before a playable version of this game is guaranteed within every package. 
 If you check the forums, you'll find people who can't install, can't play, or just can't deal with 
 all the issues that accompany Civilization IV (game crashing at in-game movies is a big one) . Then 
 again, you'll also find people who worship this game, and I can tell you right now, I envy them. 
 If you're looking to buy this game, I wouldn't advise against it (unless you're feeling lucky) , 
 but I would recommend that you wait until a patch is released. 
  
  From what I have personally seen of this game, in-between freezing and crashing and system stuttering, 
 I see a window of opportunity. The gameplay looks fun and innovative, looks... the graphics are 
 satisfactory, but then again, you don't expect amazing graphics over amazing gameplay in a game 
 like Civilization. The sound is by far the best aspect of my version, namely the title menu, but 
 the eerie silence that accompanies gameplay sends chills down my spine. Value? To me, sixty dollars 
 is a lot of money and no, I can't just throw it away and then shrug it off. I'm going to try a 
 couple more things before I attempt to get a refund, but I won't do anymore than that. To the people 
 who are thinking, "maybe you should just wait for the patch", I say, "maybe Firaxis should have 
 released a playable version of their game." 
  
  (Provided I get this working, I'll gladly re-write this review and give the game the credit it 
 deserves...) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: clown2theleft
Rating: 1.3
Date: Nov 8, 2005 9:19 pm PT
Review:  This is, apparently, the beta version. If you feel like dropping $50+ to be a beta-tester for Firaxis, 
 go ahead. Numerous crashes to desktop for no apparent reason, with a system that obliterates the 
 recommended specs (3.4GHz, 1.0G PC4200, 128MB Video) . Tech rate vs. unit build rate is moronic; 
 by the time you build a new unit, it is obsolete, diplomacy is the worst in the series. 
  
  Avoid, avoid, avoid! 
  
  Go get yourself ROME: TOTAL WAR, or dust off your copy of Civ III 
 if you've got a jones to play a turn-based strategy game, because this one is unplayable.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: chris. caputo
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 8, 2005 6:00 pm PT
Review:  Don't get me wrong. I played the original until my eyes bled and my brain froze. I actually bought 
 and played them all. The truth is that this is just a sequel. Sure it has better graphics and such, 
 but it should considering the technology level difference. The game play is still the same as the 
 original. Once you played it the endless repetitiveness of the turn engine starts to look and feel 
 like more of a bad photo copy than a new original game.
  
  Hey I love Sid Meier's games. He definitely paved new roads, but I think this road has a few too 
 many layers now. Sid, why don't you go back to the drawing board and invent something new! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: turkwhip
Rating: 9.1
Date: Nov 8, 2005 4:32 pm PT
Review:  Let me start by saying this is verging on an absolutely great game. You've heard all the great 
 stuff about the game and I dont generally disagree, so I wont get into that here. It does have 
 one major problem however. The timing of tech advancement with city upgrades and unit production. 
 It matters not what speed you run the game at, because all of these speed up or slow down together. 
 Tech advancements, simply put, happen way too fast! Especially in the later stages of the game. 
 In some cases I was able to research 3 techs in the time it took to produce one unit. Units become 
 outdated way before any unit production can happen. This leads the player to resist producing ANY 
 units until much later in the game. NO GOOD! I would like the flexibility to slow tech research 
 WAY down and tie that to the passage of years. I would then like to speed up unit production and 
 SLIGHTLY slow city upgrtades, like granaries and barracks. This would actually allow me the option 
 to build some defense... and perhaps even consider war. Finally... as a side note, it seems very 
 difficult to get ANY wonders in a large game with lots of AI. I mean ANY! I dont know how they 
 do it. I research a tech and select a wonder... only to have it built in the VERY NEXT TURN! Something 
 is a little odd there.
  
  This IS picky stuff though. The game is still very good... I would just like a little more flexibility. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SwollenFridge
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 8, 2005 3:25 pm PT
Review:  The Good: Nearly flawless strategic gameplay, fast-feeling games combined with huge scope, minimal 
 micromanagement, great presentation and sound, new 3D map, incredibly addictive, can be played 
 for hours without even noticing, functional multiplayer
  
  The Bad: It's sometimes difficult to take cities, especially with unit promotions, multiplayer 
 server browser's a little rough
  
  Civilization IV is the latest game in one of the most venerable gaming series of all time, and 
 although I can't tell you whether or not it's the best game (sadly, I never played any of the previous 
 games) , I can promise you that Civilization IV is a game of such immensely high caliber that I 
 doubt you will be disappointed.
  
  Civ IV is of course a turn-based strategy game in which you take a civilization from fledgling 
 status and finally, fulfill one of the many victory conditions to become the most powerful civilization 
 in the world. This can be done many ways, which adds a lot of depth to the game's overall arc, 
 but each game's small decisions add a lot of variety. The great thing about this game is that barely 
 anything is rote, mechanical boring stuff - you spend your time only with the big, important decisions 
 that will have a palpable impact in this game thanks to Civ IV's interface. This means you will 
 practically never get frustrated with this game because of it being boring, especially since your 
 turns pass quickly and it's extremely easy to locate all the information in Civ IV, a considerable 
 amount of which is presented in the new 3D board visually. Everything is accessed easily by a simple 
 click or two. This is good, as by the end of the game you will have a LOT to manage, but it's always 
 fun.
  
  The game is balanced superbly. Each unit when committed to combat now has a single power rating 
 - the higher, the better. However there are lots of other factors - certain tiles will offer more 
 defensive protection than others (especially cities) , and once a unit gains enough experience (i. e. 
 kills enough other units) you can give it a promotion. While you can always give your unit a generic 
 +10% combat promotion, other promotions are much more valuable if you use them right. However it's 
 an important decision to make, as each unit is then specialized. Although you can always use a 
 unit that gets better defense in the woods as a city attacker in the plains, it would essentially 
 negate the promotion that you spen the unit's experience for. The only downside to this system 
 is that promotions occasionally seem a little drastic, such as when an archer beats an axeman. 
 The only other problem is that used correctly, this system can render some cities nearly impossible 
 to take no matter how many units you throw at it. This is because the bigger cities will add a 
 defense bonus, plus you can fortify units over a series of turns (you gain 5% each turn, maximum 
 fortification bonus is 25%) , plus many units can be promoted to become better city defenders. Otherwise 
 though, it's a terrific system that adds a lot of depth to your maneuvers.
  
  The graphics are about as good as they can be in a turn-based strategy game, with a beautifully 
 animated and a lively 3D board. The sound is great as well, with a great score (the opening music 
 is particularly reminiscent of the Lion King, which has been commented on many times) and nice 
 sounds to accompany the combat animations. The value is nearly limitless, with flawless single-player 
 action and finally, highly functional multiplayer. The multiplayer is constructed to allow for 
 players to join and leave midgame. While this has the negative effect of a true game rarely being 
 played out, it's mostly positive, as people will often have to leave because they're doing bad 
 (the AI will take over) . The multiplayer server browser's a little rough and annoying though, as 
 it's constantly refreshing as you go instead of staying static until you tell it to refresh.
  
  Ultimately, though, Civ IV easily overcomes its flaws to become an enduring strategy classic. 
 If you have an even remote interest in strategy, or perhaps a fondness for board-games, and ESPECIALLY 
 if you're a fan of the previous games, get this game. Now. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: slowram
Rating: 9.4
Date: Nov 8, 2005 1:57 pm PT
Review:  I have been a Civ addict since the first day I discovered the game which was months after it's 
 initial release. I've bought and tried every version since. I enjoyed version 2 and the gold version 
 following. I even enjoyed the multiplayer release which received some hard knocks. I however couldn't 
 get into the Call to Power knockoff and though I tried many times I couldn't enjoy Civilization 
 version 3. The problem I had with Civilization III was that I enjoy playing the game aggressively 
 and play it as a war game. Whenever I would attack someone in version 3 they would immediately 
 ally with all the other nearby computer players and amass huge numbers of troops (even if they 
 were weak) and bombard me till my much stronger defenders were destroyed. I tried enjoying playing 
 the game as a civilization building experiment, but didn't enjoy that facet of the game as much. 
 Civilization IV has remedied those issues and is once again fun even for a warmonger like myself.
 
  
  Major New Game Options
  -----------------------------------
  Civ IV now has new speed options which are a great addition if you need to play quickly, myself 
 though I always choose epic speed as that gives me the civ game experience I know and love. A game 
 then usually takes me a bit over 8 hours. 
  The game now ships supporting Multiplayer and has received good reviews - I've not tried this feature 
 yet.
  
  Civ 3 vs. 4 Gameplay
  -----------------------------
  The first thing you'll notice is the graphics are much nicer and some of the advanced keystroke 
 commands are now represented as easy to use buttons.
  Units now have a single strength meter helping you gauge your attack success and better yet if 
 you activate a unit and right click on the enemy you will see the odds of success and a summary 
 of that calculation (terrain is important) . 
  There are no longer military leaders and the grouping of troops under them. However your units 
 do receive experience bonuses and you get to elect where that bonus goes: 10% faster healing, +20% 
 attacking cities, etc.
  Barbarian encounters still occur as well as Barbarian cities. Now there are also wild animals roaming 
 about at the start of the game. Huts are still here too.
  I had thought I read Railroads wouldn't be so important or work like they did before. That is somewhat 
 true, but to a lesser extent then I expected. Railroads come about the same as before and need 
 to be built over roads as before. The difference is now movement isn't unlimited on them though 
 they do allow you to go much further than roads making them just as useful as before but now you 
 do have to consider troop locations on a continent as they can't cross it all in one turn.
  Culture is back and as important as ever. Now you can no longer cross a countries border without 
 having a treaty to do so with them or unless willing to declare war on them. This is a huge consideration 
 when building your empire. You can build cities and grow culture to block the opponent from resources. 
 You can build a city in between your opponents to block road access to resources - though you had 
 better be prepared to win the culture war else your city will become your opponents.
  Keeping in mind I've avoided the harder difficulties so far (if I put 8 hours into a game I want 
 to be able to win - though that can involve reloading past points before a bad decision) the AI 
 is no longer hell bent on prying you from your technologies or resources. In version 3 I would 
 always get asked for and then attacked for not providing whatever the computer opponent wanted, 
 now it takes many (and I mean a lot) of refusals and still only particular leaders will attack 
 you first. Furthermore the computer opponents don't instantly unify when one country declares war 
 on you - I've yet had to fight a war against allied computer opponents. The computer has shown 
 some brains when attacking (at least from afar) by using multiple boat loads of troops to attack 
 a city making sure the number of attackers outnumbered mine. Unlike with Civ 3 though I've not 
 encountered the computer continuously making hordes of troops - it seems the computer is having 
 to really produce them the same as myself. This allows you to turn the tide if losing a war as 
 the computer will have used the excess troops in attacking and once you get past that initial barrage 
 you can then counter with the buildup you hopefully got producing while being attacked. To put 
 it simply war once again is a viable strategy that works.
  There are more ways to win and I find myself experiencing the alternatives whereas before for me 
 it was always a wipe out the computer or space victory. In the past I felt you had to focus on 
 your winning strategy from the get go, now I feel you can adjust the type of victory you shoot 
 for as game goes on. This adds a lot to the game as there is often different viable victory paths 
 to pursue, so don't get down if your initial plan was less than stellar. You may now be better 
 setup for an alternative victory condition. The conditions still include completely wiping out 
 the computer or going to space, but they now also include winning by culture dominance, winning 
 by a combination of culture and population, allied wins, UN win, and possibly more. There's a victory 
 condition advisor button you can check to see where you may want to focus.
  City management is now simplified but not like CTP and feels natural as though the game was designed 
 to be done this way from version 1 though it messed up in the earlier releases. You still want 
 workers to improve your land and picking where you begin a city has an impact on its early ability 
 to grow. However now you don't have to worry about having to build improvements just to grow the 
 city and you're no longer limited to just the few squares around the city - culture is major. You 
 no longer have to quell uprisings. What you have to do is provide workers to improve terrain so 
 the city can grow/produce and you may also want to allocate the resources of a city towards a particular 
 scheme: growth, gold, production, etc. which can be done with a single click. I used to find growing 
 a city to be too much of a full time task to bother with considering all the other facets of the 
 game. Now the city takes care of itself and grows and grows with minimal (just the right amount) 
 of attention. 
  
  Civ 4 is everything I hoped Civ 3 to be. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Torbian02
Rating: 9.6
Date: Nov 8, 2005 12:22 pm PT
Review:  I was lucky. I tried to buy the game right when it came out from Best Buy, but that ended up being 
 a dumb move, cause so many people ran out to buy this amazing game. So I had to order it off the 
 internet, and only found amazon. com not on backorder, and the good thing, they still had presale 
 editions left. So that is the one I got, over a week after the game originally came out. The reason 
 I say I was lucky is, well, besides it being an amazing game, I had troubles with it right away. 
 We are all familiar, with the mixed up CD labeling, and the ATI Randon graphics problem, but mine 
 seemed to be a minor one. It had to do with my sound card. Well I got a new sound card and things 
 are better, the game works, and it works just fine. But I felt the frustration for over 2 weeks 
 of not being able to play that game, me worrying that my old time system would not be able to handle 
 it. Well it does, and sure, I had to spend 20 bucks for a new sound card (cheapest) but it was 
 well worth it, cause the issue of skipping noises no longer persist except in the intro... which 
 I really don't care about. The reason I gave the game an "almost, but not quite" is because the 
 bugs and mishaps that loyal fans have been complaining about really effects the game. I was so 
 hyped up on this game, for it to be bugged out seems foolish and rushed by the manufactures and 
 the like. If they had waited... it would have been perfect. But that is were the patch comes into 
 play. Sure, I am going to keep on playing the game, the only problem I have is the cursor keeps 
 jittering while I play, but I have gotten used to that. Truly, if you can get by on these tiny 
 yet very detrimental mistakes, that game overall is fantastic. 
  
  Cheers... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Arkali
Rating: 9.1
Date: Nov 8, 2005 12:20 pm PT
Review:  Civilization IV is the latest in a worthy series of games. The classic feel of the game is still 
 here  you will definitely utter Just one more turn until the birds start chirping. Ive been 
 playing Civ games since the first one. Theyve all had that addictive gameplay that is the hallmark 
 of Sid Meiers games.
  
  For those who are new to the Civ franchise, heres a run-down of the games premise: you start 
 out in the dawn of mankind with a settler. If youre lucky, you might have a warrior or an explorer, 
 too. Or not. That depends on the Civilization you choose to play. So, there you are with your settler. 
 You build a city, and youre off! The game unfolds turn by turn, with each turn consisting of you 
 moving units and troops, overseeing your cities, and guiding your civilization to be the best it 
 can be.
  
  The thing thats so wonderful about the Civ games is that theyre so open-ended. Theres more than 
 one way to win, and theres definitely more than one way to play. Regardless of your style, though, 
 one turn seamlessly melts into the next and you will find yourself staying up way past your bedtime.
 
  
  The fourth game in the series makes some very nice improvements. A handful of the things that have 
 impressed me are:
  * Culture. Civ III introduced the concept of culture, and this installment has refined it, even 
 adding the concept of opened and closed borders.
  * Terrain improvements. The range of choices is now much more diverse and includes windmills, waterwheels, 
 cottages, plantations, oil wells and more.
  * Cities. The world map is now much more alive. Cities are nebulous, growing things and truly grand 
 cities look it.
  * Battles. Units still fight the way they always have  one moves onto the others tile and they 
 duke it out. The animations are now very charming, though.
  * Upgradeable units. You can now choose how you want to promote your units, with such bonuses as 
 flanking, city defense, etc.
  
  Finally, Id like to address a few specific complaints that Ive seen in other reviews and do NOT 
 agree with:
  1) The game doesnt have a manual. 
  This is UNTRUE. I got the regular edition game and it included a reference poster and a meaty manual 
 that is over 200 pages.
  2) "The civilopedia sucks."
  This is also untrue. Yes, the civilopedia is much more graphics based, but there is also text. 
 My only complaint is that there isnt a section devoted just to the wonders, and that listings 
 of resources dont specify what (if anything) obsoletes them.
  3) "It plays too fast."
  Ive been playing my first game on the easiest setting for about 4 days now. I chose a fairly large 
 world map, and set the pacing to epic and it feels just like the old Civ games did.
  4) "Technical problems."
  Ive seen everything from people saying theres no sound during the 
 game, to jumpy movies, to blacked out faces, etc. Im not saying they are lying or anything  but 
 just that my own experience has happily been problem free, so far. Knock on wood :-)
  For the record, my own system is not a new one. Ive got an AMD 2.2 ghz processor, 728 megs of 
 RAM, an on-board sound card and a Radeon video card with 256 megs of on-board memory and I run 
 Windows 2000. Not a top-of-the-line system.
  
  In conclusion  if youre a Civ fan, or enjoy turn-based strategy, you will love Civilization IV. 
 Its a wonderful game, and a worthy successor in the series. Its stayed true to its roots while 
 still improving those aspects that we all know and love. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: hack_er
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 8, 2005 8:40 am PT
Review:  Civilization is a series as rich and vibrant as any in the gaming industry. It has legions of fans 
 from the early days all the way down to the new, young crowd just getting a hold of the originals. Sid 
 Meier and his company Firaxis have always said they want to keep gems shiny, and the best way to 
 do so is to bring it up to date for the old and new fans alike.
  
  With seriously updated graphics, some great new tweaks and additions, and all the perfection of 
 the previous titles, this promises to be the definitive strategy title of the year. As happens 
 on occasion, everything old is new again. And this old-turned-new promises to become an instant 
 classic. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: CrzyMofo69
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 7, 2005 10:08 pm PT
Review:  With all the rave reviews I've been reading about this game I feel the need to be the devil's advovate. 
 I've been playing and loving the Civ franchise sinch its inception, but this time they simply didn't 
 go far enough to keep me coming back.
  In Civ was a masterful game that facilitated perpetual playability. It was hands down the best 
 game out there for a significant period of time.
  In Civ 2 was the refinement and aesthetic improvement of this excellent game. 
  I played Civ 
 2 fanatically and loved every minute of it. But eventually with new games and new concepts and 
 new graphics I tired of the perennial favourite. 
  Then came Civ III, a truly masterful stroke. Minor annoyances aside (pollution, corruption, resistance) , 
 this game was pure genius. The introductoin of resources and the refinements to the progress of 
 the game and diplomacy made this game truly supreme. 
  This game I again played fanatically, with fervor, but again eventually I found it growing old. 
 But the problem here was not merely one of outdated graphics and annoying technicalities, it was 
 that I was tiring of the entire concept of the game. The same was true with Civ II, as I found 
 myself drifting to RTS games, but all that changed when Civ III entered with a massive bang, loaded 
 with refinements.
  The big problem for me is that the bar has been raised. I continued playing Civ III until about 
 a year ago... when I started playing Rome: Total War. Here is another revolutionary and spectacular 
 game, and frankly it's just plain better than Civ. 
  And so up to the release of Civ IV I eagerly anticipated a revamped game that would lend a sense 
 of immense realism to the task of empire building. Civ IV improves on almost every aspect of Civ 
 III, but it adds nothing new. Those that attest that religion is a huge step are fooling themselves. 
 This seems to me to be a desperate addon to garner attention, that really adds nothing particularly 
 new to the game. 
  And so while Civ IV is summarily better than Civ III, in a world of Rome: Total War and Empire 
 Earth, it simply fails to do enough to keep me playing the franchise, one that I've been enjoying 
 for over 14 years. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: drakos
Rating: 9.6
Date: Nov 7, 2005 8:22 pm PT
Review:  I have never been a big fan of strategy games. I used to play a little Warcraft and Starcraft and 
 that was about it. After seeing all the great reviews on Gamespot, I decided to pick it up and 
 give it a whirl. When I first opened the package, I thought to myself that I was way over my head 
 by looking at the tech tree map poster. At the start of the game, I selected the tutorial, and 
 behold, Sid Meier actually steps you through the beginning. I found the learning curve was quite 
 quick and I got into the hang of things right away. The concept is simple, dominate the other opponents. 
 There are many ways to win the game. It just depends what your goals are. The easiest way to describe 
 this game to first time siv players is that this is like a huge elaborate chess game. Its turn 
 based gameplay makes you always want to have another go. This is the only video game that I have 
 ever played for 15 hrs straight. 9am to 12am. That is nuts. You completely immersify yourself with 
 great 3D effects and a fantastic cinematic quality score. Sound effects were very well done and 
 put you right in the middle of the action. The graphics were not a blow your pants off impact, 
 but with scrolling across a huge map, you probably wouldn't want that anyways creating lag. The 
 game is very intricate and detailed. I love the concept that you are re-writing history every time 
 you play the game. Whether you are a strat fan or not, this game is definately a highly recommended 
 winner. Just be prepared to lose lots and lots of sleep. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bambul
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 7, 2005 4:12 pm PT
Review:  ... this is the best of the Civilization series. If you liked the previous ones, you will also do 
 this one. Graphics is great, gameplay is what you know from before and hey, we got the movies back 
 :) 
  
  The only thing I was disappointed not to see, or rather maybe something hoped to find there were 
 real-time like fights (they were in one of the original Ceasar series) , where you can influence 
 from general position some things like formation, defence or attack. I really liked that and for 
 some reason hoped this would be similar.
  
  Anyway, the game is great, go get it you guys who still hesitate...
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: InfernoBane
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 7, 2005 2:40 pm PT
Review:  Social life ruined, all other games on the shelf, I bask in the glory that is Civilization IV.
 
  
  I have never been more happy to pick up a game at my local EBGames than the day that I picked Civ. 
 IV up. It surpasses all of my expectations.
  
  The most noticeable change from Civ. III is the graphics, which are all in 3D now. I was a bit 
 skeptical from the screenshots I had seen. I was not sure that 3D graphics could capture the vibrant, 
 real world feel that Civ. III had. Boy was I wrong; the world in Civ. IV is amazing. Each tile, 
 resource, and improvement mesh together perfectly. All of it is very detailed and immersive. My 
 personal favorite is the water, I love the way the rivers look as the wind through the different 
 types of terrain. The Civ. leaders look exceptionally good, so life like that I have attributed 
 their faces to the real people in history.
  
  Quite a few aspects of the game play have changed as well. The new unit promotion system works 
 very well. Each combat unit evolves into a unique entity as they go through different combat experiences. 
 The result is a highly customized military that you create through offensive and defensive warfare. 
 Each unit is no longer the basic template following the same track. They also have one universal 
 power rating now, and you won't see many spearmen poking holes in a panzer anymore.
  
  New terrain improvements have been added, windmills, watermills, lumber mills, and cottages. They 
 offer a balance between coin, production, and food that was not offered in Civ. III. It took me 
 a few games to break the standard farm/mine combination of Civ. III. Also, Settlers and workers 
 no longer take population from the city they are built in, city growth is stopped while they are 
 in production.
  
  Cities will no longer riot, a successful attempt at cutting back on micro managing. Instead, citizens 
 will just stop working, and an un-happiness icon will appear. Easy to remedy, and not near as annoying 
 as the old riots.
  
  Great people add a new dimension to the game play. There is even a leader trait that will allow 
 you to increase the birthrate of great people. You can specialize each city to produce different 
 types of great people, they can grant free technologies, hurry production on a world wonder, found 
 culture rich religious buildings, conduct trade missions to foreign cities for lots of gold, start 
 a golden age, and all of them can join cities as super specialists.
  
  The tech tree has changed for the better. The techs are no longer confined to specific ages in 
 history; you can go down one path and ignore all others. It adopts an "or" approach instead of 
 the old "and." Instead of needing "this and this" to reach a certain tech, you now only need "this 
 or that." It makes deciding and planning what to research fun.
  
  The game focuses on the quality of cities over the quantity. You can expand at a rapid pace if 
 you like, but it will lead to financial trouble very quick. The game is much easier if you focus 
 on improving fewer cities instead of trying to grab every bit of available land.
  
  As I said before, it more than lives up anything I expected. Now, instead of a nice closing paragraph, 
 I'm going to play Civilization IV. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nrhk
Rating: 9.4
Date: Nov 7, 2005 12:05 pm PT
Review:  Civilization 4 is the newest edition of the Civilization series. 
  
  The first noticeable change is the graphics. Although the graphics don't look the best they are 
 good enough to help immerse yourself into the world. The mines have an animation where the cart 
 comes up and dumps coal into the refinery. Its these little details that help bring the world 
 to life. The interface is a great change to the game. No longer will you have to look up a tile 
 to see what itll produce. There are now overlays to the maps that quickly help you find resources 
 and food production in an instant. Everything is now so streamlined that you could play a whole 
 game without touching the city screen.
  
  The soundtrack is absolutely superb, especially the opening song. I've found myself humming that 
 quite often. Also Leonard Nimoy does a great job of delivering the quotes every time you research 
 a new technology. Some of them are quite funny especially the one for Satellites. However the in 
 game sound effects are the greatest.
  
  The core concept of Civilization has not changed throughout the course of the series. You build 
 up an empire and win the game through a variety of victory conditions. However Civilization 4 takes 
 the tedious concepts from the previous games such as Pollution and Corruption and replaces them 
 with better counterparts or gets rid of them entirely. There are also a variety of new improvements 
 and game play tweaks that provides you with an even greater amount of control and stability. Still 
 the old problem of a spearman defeating a tank is still there, however there is a much lesser possibility. 
 Religion is a new aspect of the game and is something that shouldve been there since the beginning. 
 Although I would rather the religions be more unique I understand that the developers had to take 
 account the fact that something like that would cause a lot of controversy.
  
  Every Civ game has been insanely addictive and Civilization 4 is not exception. This is a game 
 that will last you for a long time. In previous Civs once you get bored of the single player, there 
 isnt much to do but download mods. However Civilization 4 provides a streamlined multiplayer mode 
 that is greatly improved from the previous versions. Games are quick and easy to play. If you want 
 the Epic feel of Civilization online you can wait for the pitboss mode to come on through a patch.
 
  
  As good of a game Civ might be there are several problems. Most are bugs and stability issues. 
 There are been quite a few bugs found and several major issues especially with ATI cards. The memory 
 leak doesnt help that much either however it can be fixed by alt-tabbing out of the game. Hopefully 
 future patches will fix these bugs though.
  
  Civilization 4 is a great addition to the series and ranks up there as one of the best games this 
 year. Civilization addicts will find the new changes pleasing and new players will find the game 
 easy to approach with its new interface and tutorials.
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: druncmunki
Rating: 9.7
Date: Nov 7, 2005 8:33 am PT
Review:  Firaxis and their god-like-game-designer (Sid Meier) serves up a delicious dish with this incredible 
 sequal in a strong and powerfully addictive series.
  I first picked up CIV 2 back in 6th grade from my HISTORY TEACHER. Thats right this game is academically 
 approved and with the recent introduction of relgion into the gameplay, you will definitely see 
 some pastors like my dad being stoked on how the bible is included in some quotes. This game is 
 amazing. 
  
  Now Amazing as in, how long I've been playing part 3, i still play it now, since the 4th one came 
 out, but i believe that baby will now be in storage. Since i will be totally taken over by this 
 game. Gamespot is right on, about how fun, and how much sleep you will lose playing this game. 
 The stuff is just right and there is so much I can't really type it all up
  
  THe graphics leaves you with a simple desire to see things alittle more SERIOUS, everything seeems 
 to be powered by the sorta cartoony Pirates engine but like that Game the looks just grow and serves 
 up a life on its own.
  But we are here to conquer, make a name, and rewrite history, not blow moolahs on graphic cards 
 (a la Half Life2, and Doom3....)
  
  THis game is made for those budget gamers who want to just sit down and enjoy a game for along 
 time, and you will. You will constantly find new ways to play the game, and with the improved mulitplayer 
 setup you will find yourself immersed in what everyone can call History Prof. Mania. 
  
  Civ 4 lives up to the pressure, the anticipation, the suspence, and the wait. THis is the game 
 everyone should try to play, it is that good, IT IS THAT GOOD!!! Period 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Balata
Rating: 2.6
Date: Nov 7, 2005 5:01 am PT
Review:  It seems like the 3D engine cant cope with all the data it has and even on the lowest graphics 
 settings with a high end video card it crawls and crash.
  
  The recommended specs for the game are probably misleading because they want to sell more games 
 and thats bad. Beacuse who want to play a game that dosen't function and let you spend most of 
 the time with troubleshooting.
  
  Still the game have great potential. It looks great and could possibly become a classic, but not 
 without a patch that clear all of the problem and a really good explanation. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: whalawa
Rating: 9.7
Date: Nov 6, 2005 12:55 pm PT
Review:  this game come back in a very good shape and it give a very good experience so it is really as 
 games meant to and the game play is the best of the game i need rating over 10 to give , and the 
 lowest thing is the sound it need more to get me in to the mode ,
  this game come back in a very good shape and it give a very good experience so it is really as 
 games meant to and the game play is the best of the game i need rating over 10 to give , and the 
 lowest thing is the sound it need more to get me in to the mode,
  this game come back in a very good shape and it give a very good experience so it is really as 
 games meant to and the game play is the best of the game i need rating over 10 to give , and the 
 lowest thing is the sound it need more to get me in to the mode,
  this game come back in a very good shape and it give a very good experience so it is really as 
 games meant to and the game play is the best of the game i need rating over 10 to give , and the 
 lowest thing is the sound it need more to get me in to the mode 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Perigrin
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 2, 2005 4:31 pm PT
Review:  I have been waiting for this game for awhile and I was very hopefull. Sadly I have faced disappointment 
 as it constantly crashes. Below I will say what I did find good and describe the problems I am 
 facing.
  
  The Good:
  * The sound is excellent, I enjoy the sound track and the music in the main menu is wonderful.
 
  * The graphics are nice although the game lowered its graphics because of my video card.
  * Like the new options for tiles, how workers are assigned and the fact that borders are closed 
 unless there is an open border agreement. 
  
  The Bad:
  * The custom world option could have been done better and been made part of the new game set up. 
 You will have had to play several games to really use this feature properly.
  
  The Ugly:
  * On my system the opening movie is unplayable as the sound cuts in and out. (I have 
 checked an this issue is reported by several others who have the Geforce for MX 420 card) After 
 patch the issue has disappeared to be replaced now with the video not playing but the audio sounding 
 fine.
  
  br / 
  
  Overall assessment:
  This game is good but the continuing problems with the initial movie and the continuing reports 
 of problems for some users will still keep this game from reaching the great status that others 
 have placed for it. (If everything worked great I would likely be giving it higher marks into the 
 9 region) . After the next patch I may review again depending on what I see. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: getalifesaddos
Rating: 1.4
Date: Nov 6, 2005 5:42 am PT
Review:  Civilization IV is, like Java, a good 'concept', but poorly implemented.
  
  If the game would actually work properly it would be fine, unfortunately it does not.
  
  The 
 3D engine just cannot cope with all the data it has to process and slows down to a crawl (even 
 on the lowest graphics settings with a high end video card) with large maps and lots of civilizations.
 
  
  You won't see any website reviews pointing this out, because of the time needed to get to this 
 point, hence the inflated and undeserved high scores.
  
  The recommended specs for the game are completely misleading. The game executable swallows up all 
 your RAM, and then goes on to eat up a Gb or more of virtual memory on top of that, in addition 
 to setting CPU utilization to 100% causing temperatures inside your PC case to rise alarmingly.
 
  
  The 220 page manual is actually quite interesting and makes a fine $50 door stop when you find 
 that you cannot play the actual game.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: nafarsadik
Rating: 9.8
Date: Nov 6, 2005 1:54 am PT
Review:  Every couple of years a game comes to change the face of pc gameplay forever, well civilization 
 4 is here to stay and there is no words to describe the experience. 
  I've had it for more then a week now and this is the first day I was able to tear myself of it 
 to be able to write here again!! 
  Man it's an amazing game. I really won't be able to explain about the great graphics or the unparalleled 
 gameplay or all the new stuff in the game you'll just have to stop reading here and walk out the 
 door to buy the game, although the game is missing the warning on the box "Highly addictive, has 
 been known to keep you awake for days on end" that's what happened to me, now if you would excuse 
 me I need to go to sleep for the first time in a week. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: capnahdharr
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 5, 2005 8:48 pm PT
Review:  Other than the fact that theres no patches for a few minor bugs, this game is where the PC and 
 or Strategy Game of the Year is at! Without a doubt this hot title will be on the top of the holiday 
 shopping lists! My overall diagnosis for this game is, the sound is crisp and perfect choices for 
 the games, and the in-game graphics are almost perfect to the enth degree. The gameplay is as diverse 
 as you could get, however they did remove some cilizations I liked from CIV III such as the Ottomans 
 and Koreans. But all in all, what I can say is, this game has my vote for a big fat 10 out of 10! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: doomsday
Rating: 9.4
Date: Nov 5, 2005 4:55 pm PT
Review:  I'm not sure if they have run out of ideas in the gaming rule. I know better than to say something 
 like "Every Genre that could be invented has been invented". Civ IV is a franchise game. It's fundamentally 
 the same game as Civ 1. 
  
  Start with a settler/warrior, find a place to live, invent the wheel, then take over the world. 
 All before lunch. To be honest, it's been so long since I played Civ 3 that I probably would have 
 played this for days on end even if they didn't change anything.
  
  However, they did change stuff. LOTS of stuff. And so many of the little annoying things that were 
 put in the previous games to waste your time are now gone. I'll give you a quick list of my personal 
 favourites.
  
  1. Rival nationals now can't walk in your territory unless you let them. No more settlers rocking 
 up and creating a village right next to your capital and stealing resources.
  
  2. Automation now works ALL the time. No more units running out of things to do and then waiting 
 for you to order them home - only to have to reactivate them later when some new improvement comes 
 along. They just wait patiently for stuff to do and head home when that runs out.
  
  3. You can now manage build queue's without being on your city screen.
  
  4. The enemy AI actually 
 improve their cities!
  
  5. No more "City tile shuffling". The AI does a great job of working out where your citizens should 
 be and when. You just set a "goal" for that city like "production", "growth", "research" etc and 
 it does what it needs to.
  
  There's plenty more too, but you can find out on the web site.
  
  I can now play an entire 
 game, start to end, in under 2 hours if I want, but the beauty is I could still take 10 hours if 
 I so desired.
  
  Yes, this is an evolution, and yes, it would still be a good game in the original format, but it's 
 getting damn near what the original intent of this game was in the first place and this was a damn 
 good effort. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: imatool
Rating: 9.9
Date: Nov 5, 2005 3:20 pm PT
Review:  i love the entire civilization basis , but this game has a lot of bugs that need to be fixed and 
 i am sure they will fix them. firstly many players have what is known as the lobby bug. with the 
 lobby bug you may be in the lobby for only a minute or so before game crashed to desktop and you 
 must restart. 2nd they have made the 3-d format so much more intense many need upgrades and it 
 slows combat severely. enough bad talk though i absolutely love this game and would recomend it 
 to any one who knows the civilization format. even new players would like this game just plan a 
 day where you could learn how. for advanced players if you havent already i would advise joining 
 a league most popular being cases ladder www. myleague. com/civ4players, easy to join and well worth 
 it. all in all this game will be great as soon as they release the correct patches for it 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Puppy0
Rating: 9.3
Date: Nov 5, 2005 1:10 pm PT
Review:  Civilization 4 manages to recover the series and update it, while still staying true to the series 
 original formula. Granted this game shipped early, so there are some things that feel undone, but 
 not as though the developers cut corners to get the game out on time. The game play allows new 
 comers to still enjoy the experience without forcing them to learn how much food every terrain 
 type generates.
  Remembering my disappointment with Civilization 3, I kept my expectations low for Sid Miers most 
 recent release. However, when the game finally hit store shelves, my early caution was thrown to 
 the wind, and so was the $50.00 I laid down for this game. The intro was the same detached fly 
 by youve come to expect, and the menu was simple with minimal flash to it. After I had finally 
 started a quick game, though, I knew that my investment was going to return its value and then 
 some (in the time I spend staring blankly at the screen in steed of doing actual work. Hey. Wait 
 I guess I am losing money there too! Oh, well.) This game brings back the glory days of Civ 2 while 
 adding all sorts of new options.
  Something that hit me a few times as I played through, however, was how some things just didnt 
 feel like they were done. Its as if the developers decided to stop early and just send it out. 
 Oh wait! They did! Seriously though, I thought numerous times while playing Well that could have 
 used a few more weeks in development. Mostly they didnt detract, and hopefully they will release 
 and massive patch that finishes up where the developers where going.
  This is the first game in a long time I have actually considered reading the manual. There are 
 incredible levels of complexity, from religion and culture to the new tech tree that makes you 
 stay more balanced with its diversity instead of with an age tech quota. You could spend quite 
 a few hours just unearthing all the subtleties that go into being a successful ruler. BUT, and 
 that is a huge but, the great thing is, Joe Moron can jump into the game and start hitting next 
 turn, and come out at the end with a sense of accomplishment (just dont let Joe Moron play on 
 anything above Chieftain difficulty.) That means that even if I know the game well I can be lazy 
 and just do the important things and let the micromanagement fall to automation.
  The game ran fine overall with my ATI Radeon 9800. I did notice that occasionally during battles 
 the spearmen would run off into the ocean, and suddenly they would die, but if you install the 
 drivers correctly, you should be a happy player. Speaking of battles. 
  The new combat system is a refreshing breath from the previous games (though a mace man destroyed 
 one of my helicopters, which provided some interesting visuals on how this was accomplished. I 
 finally settled on the cheerleader launch attack.) As much as I liked the sound effects of attacking 
 in the last one, the short intensity zoom in battle add a little excitement to a genre that is 
 increasingly termed as your older brothers old boring game. If you are looking for something that 
 keeps you on the edge of your seat, go eat some bad meat and then come back and play Civ 4, because 
 it is worth it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TBB
Rating: 9.6
Date: Nov 5, 2005 12:22 pm PT
Review:  Civ 4. How long have I waited for this? Well I'm always waiting for another installment from this 
 series because I KNOW its going to deliver a knock out blow to my sleeping and education. Does 
 it disappoint? Lets just say that insomnia never looked so good.
  
  Gameplay- I think the FDA might be classifying this as an illegal substance due to its shere ADDICTIVE 
 qualities.
  
  Graphics- A bit cartoony but delivers. If your playing this for the graphics your playing for the 
 wrong reasons. For any of you with high end machines use the world builder and get 100 nukes and 
 stack launch them ;) . 
  
  Sound- Leanord Nemoy delivers excellent commentary. The music is spot on for each game. Plus if 
 you don't like their music its quite simple to replace your own.
  
  Value- Its Civ. You WILL lose sleep and you WILL keep coming back for more.
  
  Tilt- What can 
 I say? I've loved Civ since I knew what it was. So chalk the tilt up to bias and sheer freakin 
 amazement at how Civ can keep getting better and better.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Raxzor
Rating: 9.2
Date: Nov 5, 2005 7:25 am PT
Review:  One thing that always bothered me about the Civ games was they left important things out of the 
 game, which you can not ignore.
  
  Slavery. This has been a huge subject through the civilized time of man, but was always missing 
 from the games. But the designers have realized that you cant ignore the fact the slaves made 
 a lot of the greatest achievements that man has made.
  
  Fascism. This is a very touchy subject but again the designers put it in and rightly so. Because 
 at one time Fascism threatened the very existence of our modern society.
  
  And last, a subject that should have been there from the very first Civ games. Religion. The fact 
 that every great Civ has had some form of religion made it ridiculous that there was no religion 
 in the game. But thankfully the designers have at last added it. And makes the game a more authentic 
 history of man.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: jeff3f
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 1, 2007 5:50 pm PT
Review:  Opening sequences are nice, provided they work (about 25% of the time the opening movie runs; otherwise 
 it garbles and minimizes Civ -- restoring skips through the rest of the video) .
  
  The window is nice, and I actually don't mind that you can't move the sub-windows around. Performance 
 is fine even on my aged system (radeon 8500 on 1.4ghz athlon) .
  
  But it's essentially unplayable; it crashes whenever I attack goodie huts or found a religion. 
 So I haven't really progressed far into the game. I am busily troubleshooting my system, but it 
 takes time because these are bad crashes that necessitate a reboot.
  
  And time spent playing -- I am going to count the troubleshooting time, because I am trying to play. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stopchris
Rating: 7.9
Date: Nov 4, 2005 9:05 pm PT
Review:  since rise of nations i have been looking for something else with the same magnitude of game play 
 in a stradigy game.... the only other i have found is rome total war. 
  
  this game falls short. it is because there is not the depth it needs to get to that point. it is 
 a bit of the same over and over.
  
  one thing that is good is the music. the music provides a mood that is great. 
  
  the open 
 endedness is good as well. it has no boring campiane like most stradigy games. insteade you are 
 to take over the world. 
  
  the game is over all about average for a game. i wouldnt shell out money on it if i were you. its 
 nothing real special. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: smitchler
Rating: 9.7
Date: Nov 4, 2005 3:52 pm PT
Review:  After getting this game the wait was finally over and i was so happy to play it and it was worth 
 every penny spent. I like how the cities grow on the map. The graphics have come along way from 
 the previous civs and id give that 2 thumbs way up!! Another awsome thing about the game is the 
 farm building and mining it adds snap to the game and of course the best thing is not having to 
 worry about cleaning up pullution. I'll give this game a score of 9.7 no questions asked. so if 
 your looking for a good game to play or interested in buying a gift to a computer game fan this 
 is deffinatly the right one to get them. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: squalcl
Rating: 9.4
Date: Nov 4, 2005 10:45 am PT
Review:  I've played civilization III before and it was awesome. When I play civilization IV, the graphics 
 have improved a lot from the predecessors. But civ IV takes a lot of features from civ III, making 
 the game somewhat similar. The diplomatic system is pretty much the same; it could have been more 
 sophisticated. Example: going to war with your allies is pretty simple , just click on the "your 
 head looks good at the end of a pole" and confirm, while in reality this isn't true. The advisors 
 are pretty much.... doing nothing, as opposed to civ III, in which at least the advisors are personalized, 
 feeling more realistic to ruling the empire. One thing that's really interesting is the animation 
 when a wonder is constructed, very entertaining. The quote feature when a technology is researched 
 is also nice, with educational purposes. The gameplay is, what can i say, very addictive, though 
 the game can lag sometimes at end of turn. One of the things I don't get is that an enemy archer 
 shot down my helicopter, which is.... possible in real life, but very rarely; and another time an 
 enemy spearman destroyed my artillery.... which, well, could be possible. There should be more sophistication 
 in the environment, for examle, earthquake, forest fire, and other natural disasters. In combat, 
 the environment (height, forest) should be taken into account, as in Pirates! also by Sid Meier. 
 Overall, Civ IV is just old stuff equipped with new technology, but it is still a very good game 
 on its own. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bluemagic8
Rating: 9.7
Date: Nov 4, 2005 9:40 am PT
Review:  The naysayers of this game all fall into one of 3 categories:
  
  1) Those experiencing technical issues with the game mostly relating to ATI radeon cards. This 
 group does in fact have some legitimate reason for being frustrated... hopefully Firaxis will be 
 able to resolve all this soon with whatever patch or patchs are needed, and they already have in 
 large part (I have a Radeon card myself and got the same graphics error most are getting... I solved 
 it within an hour after downloading and installing a new driver) .
  2) Those who find the game all but unplayable due to jerky graphics, very slow response times, 
 and / or god awful wait periods between turns. Sorry to say to all of you in this boat, but it's 
 time to upgrade. Civ IV has some pretty steep system requirements (at least to be able to play 
 it properly) . You need a reasonably decent video card and at least a gig of ram.
  3) Teenage kids (and even some adults) with the attention span of a gnat. No sympathy whatsoever 
 for this grouping... Deep immersive strategy that requires the player to actually THINK rather 
 than symply react instinctively just isn't your bag. Go back to playing God of War, Grand Theft 
 Auto, or the endless array of mindless Real Time Strategy choices there are.
  
  For the rest of us this game is an absolute godsend. The designers painstakingly studied and tweaked 
 the original classic. They either eliminated, or altered virtually all of the features found to 
 be annoying or frustrating. They then amplified all of the great features, adding to them in many 
 interesting ways, and added many more new intriguing ideas making it the one of the most multi 
 layered, incredibly deep strategy experiences in gaming history (I'm starting to think it could 
 be the single best ever!) .
  In addition to this, they also cleaned up the interface making it much more user friendly and easier 
 to understand for new comers. They upgraded the graphics to something alot closer to modern standards. 
 The music is without any doubts, the absolute finest soundtrack I've ever heard in any game period! 
 They added some nice immersive touches such as short voice responses from the games units when 
 you select them that were recorded in the actual language of the civ in question and video sequences 
 for wonder construction. A virtual cornucopia of choices for game setup, more Civ leaders, more 
 in depth choices for player defined government selection, unit upgrades in the form of promotions, 
 more terrain features and special resources.... I could go on.... and on... and on....
  Oh and I almost forgot to mention... for the first time in Civilization, Fully supported and functional 
 MULTI PLAYER!!!
  
  To be blunt... If you enjoy strategy you must buy this. It's that simple... don't wait... don't 
 have second thoughts... don't even consider the possibility this may not be the right choice. This 
 game is absolutely one for the ages. Thank you Sid Meier. Without designers like you, the 4X Turn 
 based genre would be all but dead. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FalconEye_basic
Rating: 6.9
Date: Nov 4, 2005 9:02 am PT
Review:  Hmmm... I wasn't impressed. I'm just not hooked. I don't have the "one more turn" urge I had in 
 the past.
  
  Perhaps I've become less mature in my maturity. Ask me about Battlefield 2: 10/10! (Or close, I'll 
 look at that one later.)
  
  But this one just didn't grab me. It _is_ prettier. And religion is nice... historical figures 
 is a nice touch. Being able to select different rulers adds another level of strategy... I guess.
 
  
  Maybe I haven't given it a good chance yet, but it just goes grab. I don't hate sequals by nature, 
 but this does feel a little old.
  
  I also found the interface a little less intuitive.
  
  I think it just feels too much more like a board game, and the historical impact seems lost, 
 and I don't know. I really do believe it's good... I just won't play it much. (Neither will the 
 other Civ-heads in my household.)
  
  I wish I'd found this game first in the series, then it would have blown me away! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Agent_Worm
Rating: 9.8
Date: Nov 4, 2005 8:58 am PT
Review:  I finally got a chance to get a little into the game last night, at first I had apprehensions regarding 
 what other people had said. All of that was blown away when I actually got into the thick of it. 
 
  
  The game has definitely improved on speed. I managed to play and beat a game in 2 hours, grant 
 it, I was playing it on easy, but of course, I couldn't do a harder game while taking a full course 
 load in computer science. The tech tree definitely helps in speeding things up, and I personally 
 like not having to research something if I don't want to (who needs horse archers?) . 
  
  The new government settings are awesome. Being able to define government, religion and other stuff 
 adds a nice touch. And you see the differences between each one now more clearly than before.
 
  
  I was worried about the graphics and it being 3d. I thought it would take away form the game, thankfully 
 it didn't. Zooming in doesn't really help much, but it can be entertaining. The new look gives 
 it a more lively feel. The music also added to the game. I didn't notice it at first, but as you 
 progressed through the ages, the music would change to it, somewhat. This is the first civ game 
 I didn't turn off the music and put my own on.
  
  All in all, this is a great game. The only thing I noticed that bugged me was when given an option 
 for something (like when doing some diplomacy) and you wanted to see the big picture, it would 
 essentially cancel out whatever dialogue I was having with a leader. But maybe that was just my 
 own error. 
  
  I recommend this game for vets and beginners. It's worth having in your collection. Just beware 
 of the "one more turn" syndrome! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: signupshit
Rating: 9.2
Date: Nov 4, 2005 8:54 am PT
Review:  Civilization IV is a brilliant game. The AI has been well thought out and the interface improved. 
 There is a lot of meat on the bone, including some excellent mods and historic scenarios. If you 
 like the Age of X series you should seriously give this a try. It's a deeper experience but isn't 
 hard to play. 
  Aeishunu, I think the reason you dislike CIV so much is that you don't understand it. Also Aeishunu, 
 your spelling is abysmal may I suggest a redimial class in reading and spelling? When you have 
 completed this class give Civ another go, you may find you have the wit to understand it, or perhaps 
 it's simply beyond you but you'll never know until you try. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: frdmlover
Rating: 5.8
Date: Nov 4, 2005 8:05 am PT
Review:  I love Civ III, I thought I would go ape over Civ IV. I didn; t. I am forcing myself to paly it 
 in the hopes that I will have an epiphany and find what ever "it" is that ins't pulling me into 
 the game. I miss the ages chart from Civ III, it was very handy and enabled the player to make 
 choices based on an objective. I have played three games up to warlord, and won every game, with 
 out a hitch. It seems like the game is playin for me and that no matter choices I make I don; t 
 really see it's impact. I am talking about the religions, and wether or not to build a farm. The 
 city over view is just trash. I hate looking at it an I do not find it helpfull, the interface 
 is all wrong if you ask me. Too many "old" commands are missing, such as the repetative attack. 
 The aftermath of a nuclear attack is not visibly clear, there is no damage to terrain, or roads 
 or rails or improvements that I was able to see. That is incredibly dissappointing, lets face it, 
 dropping the A-bomb is an objective in the game that we expect to be spectacular upon its execution. 
 It isn't. Over all I would have to agree, DON'T BELIEVE THE HYPE! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pjay101
Rating: 9.7
Date: Nov 4, 2005 7:53 am PT
Review:  This is what I was hoping for in the latest installment of Civ IV. The game has been truely improved 
 in every aspect. No more waiting for an eternity for your workers to build then unbuild improvements 
 to replace them with what was there before... You get a better feel for your opponents "moods" 
 vis-a-vis your nation which makes it a lot easier to plan your defensive and offensive strategies. 
 The interface is intuitive and combine that with a good tutorial, you are off and running conquering 
 nations in no time.
  
  The Defensive aspect of the game is far more realistic, no more taking out a walled city by parking 
 a couple archers outside the walls and taking potshots... You need to plan your strategy and units 
 carfully.
  
  All in all, a great game... I've had the sleepless nights to prove it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: exray
Rating: 7.3
Date: Nov 4, 2005 6:35 am PT
Review:  Having never played any of the games in the Civiliaztion series, I jumped right in when Civ 4 hit 
 stores.
  
  On the whole, the game is fairly enjoyable. The graphics, research and diplomacy aspects are all 
 very well done and make for some solid gameplay. It is possible to spend hours of the game manipulating 
 foriegn dignitaries and creating a strong economic empire. If you're more inclined to follow a 
 military path, you may be disappointed.
  
  I feel that the problem is in the combat, more specifically, in the units themselves. You can go 
 all out in your research efforts to reach the late game technologies before your competitors. If 
 you do, you'll be producing Navy SEAL's, Gunships, Tanks and Fighters while your opposition is 
 still stuck using Knights, Swordsmen and early gunpowder units such as Musketmen. However, even 
 with a wide technological edge, the units themselves are far too close in strength. Obviously, 
 there is no way that a Knight on Horseback could ever stand up to an Attack Helicopter, let alone 
 actually damage it. But in the game, a few hits from a *sword* will send your Gunship to the scrapyard. 
 Ditto with machine gun wielding infantry vs revolution-era Musketmen and Grenadiers. 
  
  While I understand that it is important to balance the units against each other to avoid giving 
 any player too much of an advantage, it's disappointing that out-teching the other civ's military 
 doesn't translate to a solid advantage on the battlefield. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ernelson1976
Rating: 9.3
Date: Nov 4, 2005 6:30 am PT
Review:  Civilization IV has been well worth the wait. It captures the spirit and gameplay of previous incarnations 
 of the Civilization franchise while updating the look substantially.
  
  It is simply amazing how much information is communicated on the main screen without delving into 
 the graphs and charts. You can know at a glance all the immediately pertinent information about 
 a city, square or unit. That makes managing the game faster and more enjoyable. The game has a 
 certain cartoonish style to it which is realistic, but which obviously doesn't take itself too 
 seriously. The mix works well.
  
  But it's not just the graphical presentation which has been upgraded. The depth of gameplay has 
 been deepened substantially. Religion, culture and economics are all far more interesting and complicated 
 than in previous versions.
  
  And it helps that the AI seems somewhat more competant than in previous games. On the highest difficulty 
 settings, the game will kick your butt. That's nothing new, since previous versions were difficult 
 as well. But unlike in those versions, where it seemed the game had to cheat to beat you, this 
 time it is different. Sometimes it does seem that the game is cheating slightly, but it is never 
 so over-the-top that you become aggravated by it.
  
  A few ancient flaws remain. Despite claims to the contrary, ancient units destroy modern units 
 far too often. I've had helicopter gunships shot down by longbow units. Once in a while would be 
 acceptable, but by the time the same longbow unit shot down a third helicopter, I was ready to 
 punch the computer. That wasn't the only occasion for such ludicrous scenarios, either. Though 
 not as common as in earlier Civ incarnations, one would think the developers would have this particular 
 problem licked.
  
  Leonard Nimoy provides the voice acting, reading classic quotes when new discoveries are made. 
 Nimoy's voice gets irritating, mostly because he sounds like he's reading the quotes from a cue-card 
 (which he likely is) . He's got the same tone to all of them, like he's trying to sound interested, 
 but is really bored. When he reads "I have become death, shatterer of worlds" it sounds like he's 
 ordering a pizza over the phone. Just an example of how big-name voice acting sometimes falls dramatically 
 flat. Act out the quotes a bit, for goodness sake, you're an actor!
  
  Aside from the few annoyances, though, this game is a keeper. It's got tons of replay value, given 
 its wide variety of victory scenarios, government types and civics. Shut off Nimoy's voice, and 
 suck up your arrow-pierced gunships, and you'll definitely enjoy this game.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Pinstar
Rating: 9.2
Date: Nov 3, 2005 5:16 pm PT
Review:  Games these days must strike a balance between sticking with the old formula and trying something 
 new. Civ IV does that perfectly. It ventures into the realm of 3d quite gracefully. It takes a 
 few risks with the new religion system and totally re-vamped great people, and adds them to a smarter 
 AI and more dynamic combate system. 
  
  Pros: 
  Dynamic Combat
  Better AI
  New religion system (which is pulled off well)
  Solutions to old pet pievs (like AI disrespecging 
 your borders)
  "Corruption" removed and replace with a much better health and maintenence cost system. 
  
 
  Cons: 
  Still bogs down in the end game. 
  Other aspects of your life may suffer. 
  
  All the while sticking to the classic Civ feel. This is the 2nd best game in Sid Mier's world (The 
 first being Alpha Centuri) . Definately worth your time and money! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dana_koh
Rating: 7.8
Date: Nov 3, 2005 4:26 pm PT
Review:  
  I get to write on Civilization 4 with mixed feeling.
  On one hand it is definitely a great game, aced in most aspects. On the other hand for someone 
 who spent many many good hours on Civ 3, I don't see too many changes that will justify a new release 
 (that is other than money) . Just like Seinfeld, good things need to step out in order to leave 
 space for others to follow.
  Game itself has it all, but again Civ 3 was pretty much the same.
  I am not completely aware 
 of all the changes, though from what i've seen so far (about 10 hours of gameplay) I can safely 
 recommend it for players who encounter this genre for the first time. For the rest, beneath the 
 hype you will eventually see that it is unjustified.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: cecx
Rating: 9.4
Date: Nov 3, 2005 4:13 pm PT
Review:  I haven't played any of the previous Civilization games, but Civilization 4 doesn't seem like a 
 bad place to start. Overall, this is probably one of the better games Ive played in awhile.
  
  Civilization 4 is a game where your objective is to win. You can do this in a variety of ways 
 ranging from conquering all enemy cities to spreading your religion enough. You start out with 
 a settler and a warrior and must build cities and expand your empire.
  
  Along your way to achieving victory youll encounter the very interesting Computer players. These 
 characters are all famous individuals that you may or may not remember from history class. They 
 all have their own personalities. Some may be peace loving hippies while others may be warlords 
 looking for a good fight. 
  
  The depth in Civilization 4 is unparalleled. Every single building you build has some sort of an 
 effect on your cities or empire. Some buildings may have a positive impact like an aqueduct, which 
 raises your city 2 health points, and some may have a negative affect that lower your citys health 
 or happiness. Not only that, soldiers get certain bonuses depending on where they are located and 
 are able to receive promotions which can raise strength levels. The depth goes on and on, so youll 
 have to buy the game to fully realize just how deep it is.
  
  Religion also plays a big part in civilization 4. You must first research a required technology 
 before founding a religion, then once founded your civilization can adopt it. Religions can make 
 your people happier and more productive and if you spread your religion you can also take out your 
 enemies from within.
  
  Combat in civilization 4 is very simple. You click on one of your units and then on an enemy unit 
 to attack it. One unit in civilization 4 represents many soldiers, this way the game is way less 
 chaotic and its far easier to manage an army. Some units move farther than others and some are 
 stronger than others. Knowing the units will help you greatly in Civilization 4.
  
  Technology also plays a big role in the game. From the start, youll be asked to research different 
 technologies to make your civilization more advanced. These all have different bonuses that youll 
 receive when you research them such as allowing you to build certain structures. 
  
  The game has great gameplay and is very easy to control. The menus are easy to navigate and it 
 is very easy to run your empire.
  
  The graphics are great. Some of the best in a strategy game to date. The world really looks lifelike 
 when you play.
  
  The music and sound in Civilization 4 is also great. Not to mention the one and only Leonard Nimoy 
 narrates it! He does a great job too.
  
  The value in this game is through the roof! Its very hard to stop playing. in fact the only reason 
 Im writing this instead of playing is it froze mid-game. 
  
  So if you have a decent PC I highly recommend you go out and buy this game. Everything about it 
 is good, the only flaw is some minor glitches that people are having, but expect a patch out soon! 
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Boo2k5
Rating: 8.4
Date: Nov 3, 2005 8:06 am PT
Review:  A very good excuse for the last civilization. Graphics are fitting in this game and it has a good 
 tutorial.
  Straight upA very good excuse for the last civilization. Graphics are fitting in this game and 
 it has a good tutorial.
  Straight upA very good excuse for the last civilization. Graphics are fitting in this game and 
 it has a good tutorial.
  Straight upA very good excuse for the last civilization. Graphics are fitting in this game and 
 it has a good tutorial.
  Straight upA very good excuse for the last civilization. Graphics are fitting in this game and 
 it has a good tutorial.
  Straight upA very good excuse for the last civilization. Graphics are fitting in this game and 
 it has a good tutorial.
  Straight up 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Vraxor
Rating: 9.8
Date: Nov 3, 2005 5:43 am PT
Review:  From all games I played this year none of them felt so much rewarding and satisfying as Civ IV.
 
  The changes just gave the game the last bits and pieces it needed to be trully stunning. Where 
 Civ III would make you sleep less, Civ IV wont give you any sleep at all, sleeping feels like a 
 waste of time again.
  
  Even though at first I really had to get used to the higher pace and many aspects of the game were 
 pretty confussing as I desperatly tried to hang on to the standards of Civ III. As soon as I got 
 into it, I couldn't get it out of mind anymore. The game just opens up whole new worlds.
  
  Long time since I was last addicted to a game, but Civ IV is the Perfection of an already excellent 
 game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ansgarr
Rating: 9.4
Date: Nov 3, 2005 4:40 am PT
Review:  I consider myself a civ freak because I have been playing all the games since Civilization I. I 
 even played colonization and alpha centauri.
  Before the 4th installment my favourite was CivII, much because of its fast pace and all the diversitys 
 with the tech tree. 
  
  This game takes all the best things from all the previous games, removes some annoying factors 
 like corruption and settler attacks (Ai builds citys inside your empire) and even adds new functions 
 to this wonderful franchise (religion, new wonders, techs and a much more diverse diplomacy options) .
 
  
  I will not go to any detail, there is alot of info on that already. But I will tell you one thing... from 
 the moment I got this game I played it for 13 hour straight.
  .. and I havent done that since I played Tie Fighter back in the 90: es :P
  
  Even tho I am civ 
 veteran this game feels kinda new and "fresh". The IV installment is by far the game that has changed 
 the most compared to older releases. 
  
  But i do have some negative opinions aswell, altho they dont really make much difference.
  1st.
 
  The music in the first parts of the game (stone age/medieveal age) sounds as if they were ripped 
 from a disney movie or something. They are OK, but not great as the latter parts of the music score 
 are. 
  2nd.
  The AI has some flaws that may be subjective to what I experienced. 
  If you close your borders and concentrate on trade/commerce your neighbours will get mad and eventually 
 start wars against you. The weird thing is they are doing this even if you are trading with them 
 and sending them gifts. There is like a dumb policy from the AI that you have to open borders no 
 matter what or everyone will attack you.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: fcoolman
Rating: 3.8
Date: Nov 3, 2005 3:22 am PT
Review:  I love the new game design elements, but gameplay is unbearably slow on my 3.0 Ghz machine. I've 
 got all graphics minimized and each move is agonizingly slow as compared to Civ 3. The look of 
 the game is nice, but I'd take Civ3 grahics with Civ4 gameplay anyday. Not sure I'll play this 
 game very much.
  
  The new aspects I really like are the Civics choices, which really expand on the Government choices 
 before and then the complexity of religion is pretty cool.
  
  The variety of new units, tech and wonders are awesome and should provide hours of challenge to 
 figure out where they all fit in your strategy.
  
  Overall: Great potential, but the game has to run quickly to be enjoyable. Hopefully a patch will 
 offer speed enhancements. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ChaosX2
Rating: 9.4
Date: Nov 3, 2005 12:58 am PT
Review:  I've played every Civilization game all the way back to the original. I've even played the CTP 
 series. This is by far the best one of the series. The graphics are incredible for civilization. 
 The AI is fair and so far fun to play against. The feeling of the game is immersive and the addition 
 of religion is superb.
  
  There are of course issues with this game. First it is dog slow on even fast machines. I am sure 
 that this will be solved with a couple of patches. I have also had sound issues and game crashes. 
 I've solved the sound issues and the game crashes are rare but do still occur. Again I believe 
 these will be solved with a couple of patches. The problem with the game is that it was released 
 to soon. I'm not going to hold that against this game since so many other games have the exact 
 same issue. Even with these issues the game is still playable and fun.
  
  The Modding ability of this game is great. In less than two hours I was able to figure out how 
 to create a mod with my own leader and civilization. I can't wait to see what the modding community 
 is going to do to this game.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: crozeak
Rating: 9.6
Date: Nov 2, 2005 11:18 pm PT
Review:  This forth installment of civ franchise is definitivly the best, I say this because it defines 
 the other games as the past installments, and makes this the version of civ you must have! The 
 other versions, espesialy 2 are good but 4 is so much better. This is a result of the fact that 
 the game has been out for almost ten years and real players could go on for hours how the previous 
 versions could be tweaked and fixed. I suspect that there will those who have suggestions for civ 
 4 as well, but this version is prepared for its nay sayers with a robust modding capablity, ver 
 similar to RTW. I look forward to these mods and improvements as they come out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ajsheridan75
Rating: 4.3
Date: Nov 2, 2005 10:13 pm PT
Review:  You would think Gamespot would have put up some kind of warning by now. I see others have written 
 about the bugs. I rushed out to buy this game on Gamespot's recomendation and I very disappointed 
 in them and the game itself. I expected more from Sid. Hopefully a patch is on the way, but I can't 
 find any info about one even in the works. Do yourself a favor and wait to buy this until it is 
 a bit more polished. I gave it an honest try and even played through the constant reloads. From 
 now on I will downloads demos first and won't rely on Gamespot's Reviews. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: eriktirto
Rating: 8.8
Date: Nov 2, 2005 9:33 pm PT
Review:  I'm not sure what i really suppose to say about this game. The gameplay is indeed amazing but come 
 on, is there any more space for the producer to really improve on the game itself. The first time 
 i play this game, it actually very good but time to time, this game give me the feeling of unsatisfaction 
 over and over again. Not sure of what is lack in the game, may be probably the same concept of 
 gameplay and no different variety of differences between the CIV 3 to Civ 4. Indeed, it was rather 
 disappointing and unpredictable to see that CIV:4 actially fall flat on the market. 9.4 rated for 
 this game is actually overated in my opinion. If truth be told, i can just say that graphic of 
 CIV :4 is the only factor that had been vaslty improved from te previous sequel. It is indeed a 
 pity to say this, but actually it is the true fact. Nevertheless, besides that, CIV:4 is good and 
 excellent game also for the first player to enjoy this game. Well, for most of all, I just give 
 this game a thumb up rather than two thumbs up. -.- 
::::::

::::::
UserName: snowgrey
Rating: 6.3
Date: Nov 2, 2005 8:16 pm PT
Review:  I've been a CIV addict for most of my adult life... I admit it... and a fan of Sid Meier's games 
 generally... he has a unique gift for making strategy gameplay a fun, even educational, process. 
 My first impression of CIV4 after a weekend of fairly focused competition is that its a really 
 good conversion of CIV2 with up-to-date graphics and some interesting AI logic.
  
  Yes, I said CIV2. That's what this game really is: CIV2:2005. It lacks a non-trivial amount of 
 the gameplay depth of CIV3 and the variety and play balance of CIV3: Conquests. 
  
  OK, sure, I realize that its built on an extensible XML engine, and of course as time goes on and 
 interested parties develop custom MODS for this title, with rich scenarios, then we might see the 
 true power of what went into making CIV4.
  
  But, it ain't there yet folks. It needs a bit more work to be truly great. Almost, but no cigar. 
 Truly great games have more production value than this, more attention to the little details. CIV4 
 seems to be a strict interpretation of traditional CIV, with substantial 21st century MODding support, 
 without the finesse one would expect from a fourth-generation title.
  
  There are some interesting bits here and there: the 'cottage' concept is cool. But what happened 
 to the 'colony' concept from the earlier title in the series? Railroad networks were fundamentally 
 revolutionary to game evolution in the previous versions, and now, railroads seem to blend in to 
 the terrain as well as the gameplay, neither as important visually nor as critical as a state-change 
 heralding modern transportation infrastructure. Kindof a step back, in my opinion.
  
  What about the character of each city? CIV4 shows cities as rather amorphous blocky structures, 
 with no real sense of the very personal variety cities can take on in everyday life. Not that eariler 
 versions had this, but at least with prior interfaces, there was a 'close up' of the city with 
 all its important structures placed here and there, just so. That was a little more 'personal' 
 I think.
  
  Don't get me wrong, as I said I love CIV and I think CIV4 is a decent game on its own, and I'm 
 sure the MODding capability will put this over that fine line into 'really good' territory, eventually. 
 BUT, I guess I was hoping for a little more, a little sooner, is all.
  
  Oh well... maybe I'll just have to turn my minor let down into a killer mod? Anyone with me? :)
 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: jamil2nice
Rating: 9.6
Date: Nov 2, 2005 8:12 pm PT
Review:  It's interesting as how this series keeps getting better. II was where Civilization actually got 
 attention, III it become very popular and now with IV you have a great TBS, very rare now. Its 
 hard to say what makes it so great. I usually play RTS's but some games like Advanced Wars for 
 GBA did appeal to me. When i play this game i simply cant stop. It doesn't get repetitive because 
 of all the possibilities. It's very easy to review a game by point out its faults, but im having 
 trouble doing that in this game. It's pure greatness down to the visuals (not always too important 
 in strategy games) and audio (very important cause the last thing you want is to be able to memorize 
 the music in one game) . Excellent ! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bweb6
Rating: 7.2
Date: Nov 2, 2005 7:45 pm PT
Review:  The new features only add to the enjoyment of what is the greatest video game series ever. However, 
 its runs too slow on my computer to be enjoyable and to play for any extended period of time. I 
 have a 2.52 Ghz/ 512 MB of memory and the programs bogs down for extended periods of time and the 
 time between turns can take up to 5 mins. Thats not very fun. They should have given this a bit 
 more thought before putting this program out. I'm considering putting the game aside until a patch 
 comes out because this is too frustrating. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: dblade48
Rating: 9.3
Date: Nov 2, 2005 3:21 pm PT
Review:  An excellent addition to the Civilization series. This is a REAL strategy game.
  
  Backed up by a complicated but satisfying gameplay system, the new added graphics and new additions 
 to the World Leaders puts the icing on this magnificently constructed cake. 
  
  You will get the taste of running cities, and your hands are always busy which keeps you entertained. 
 Want to take over a town with some samurais? Go for it. Or perhaps you prefer to just nuke the 
 hell out of people? Easy!
  
  The interface with other World Leaders is pretty much the same, although you've got more options 
 and more things to talk about.
  
  Overall, great game. A little laggy at times, but it's perfectly alright with me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vibrantblue
Rating: 7.3
Date: Nov 2, 2005 2:40 pm PT
Review:  I have played all the previous versions of CIV and I am sorry to say that I will not play CIV IV 
 again until I see a major patch (fix) for this game. Saving the game after each turn to be able 
 to continue after when the game crashes is ridiculous. If you use autosave, it is not after every 
 turn. Also many times the game crashes, you have to reboot your PC. Then when you get all restarted, 
 and resume play the game works fine and gets past the spot where it crashed. I would not recommend 
 to anyone to buy the game unless they want a BUGGY experience. Or buy it and wait for the fixes. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hacer
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 2, 2005 1:54 pm PT
Review:  Civ 4 is a great game for newbies and have the taste of old Civs. First feelings were connected 
 with new look, wich can make, esspecially veterans, confused. Next thing is that the map is really 
 simmilar to earth. Game provides diffrent angles of view. In the closest zoom we can see detailed 
 textures and 3d units. The sond is good, but not great these rythms are nice to hear but no 16h 
 a day :P Gameplay hmmmm I'll just say i spent 16h playin Civ4 and i want MORE!!!!!
  Don' think about any kind of Quake or Doom 3 just vuy Civ and learn something about your ancestors. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: eend
Rating: 3.9
Date: Nov 2, 2005 1:04 pm PT
Review:  I loved civilization 3, it is for sure on of my most favourite games of all time. 
  So you can imagine I was really thrilled when I found out that civilization 4 was in the making. 
 I read quite some reviews about it when it was released, which were all very positive, and decided 
 to buy it. 
  
  Installation for me went without problems so I turned off my cellphone and put a note on the door 
 telling that I was not to be spoken to for the next few hours. Then the intro started, you know 
 the part where they let us know who created the game, it was here that my blissful smile was put 
 to the test for the first time. The intro movie was very choppy, oh well just put out all of my 
 background programs I figured, didn't help. But who cares about the intro so I started my game.
 
  
  It was here where the real frustration started. The game for me is rather unplayable even on the 
 smaller maps. It lags throughout even with settings on low. I find this very disturbing because 
 my system is quite above the minimal system requirements (my system: AMD Athlon 1,8 GHz, 512 mb 
 RAM nVidia 5600 ) I off course downloaded the latest drivers but this didn't improve much. 
  
  So I did the old Google trick and began searching the internet for fellow "game lags can't 
 get it to play aargh" companions. And I found this really are a LOT of people, if it only was me 
 I would make the conclussion that I'm doing something terribly wrong and I would certainly not 
 be writing this. Let me just name a few topic titles to prove this: 
  - Very jerky gameplay ( 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8) 
  - Game crashes when I try and load a game 
  - Units 
 speak French or ... not English 
  - Patch? 
  - Complete And Utter Disaster 
  - Final verdict? Black terrain = new graphics card? ( 1 2 3 4) 
  - I AM SICK OF THIS! I cannot 
 play the game because it is so choppy!! Help please! ( 1 2) 
  And the list goes on and on..
  (source: http://forums. civfanatics. com/forumdisplay. php? f=159) 
 
  
  Hopefully a patch will be released (before my trade time expires would be nice :P) . I'm also a 
 bit disappointed in the reviews for not naming the game's incredibly large technical issues. So 
 my advice is wait at least for a patch because the game as it is now is nothing more than a laggy 
 beta version. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gmort
Rating: 9.6
Date: Nov 2, 2005 12:37 pm PT
Review:  Is there any doubt that Civ IV is not only the best Civ ever released but also one of the best 
 (leaning toward THE best) strategy games, period? The interface is a joy, easy to use, intuitive 
 with information. The graphics are certainly wonderful for a Civ title, and do just enough to spur 
 the game along without getting in the way. The music is great, with little touches that are sublime, 
 i. e. a reprise of the original Roman theme from the first Civ, plus a worthy starting theme that 
 is one of those melodies you find yourself repeating in your brain throughout the day. Civ has 
 always been a "just one more turn" game. The original took up so much of my time that I believed 
 coffee was essential to my very existence. This is very much the same - that certain feeling that 
 if you stopped in the middle of a game, you wouldn't quite remember everything that needed to be 
 done when you came back to it. That makes for very long nights, ending with fatigue but also with 
 satisfaction. I have to admit I'm one of Sid's Civ junkies, but I'm not ashamed of it. I've convinced 
 several people, even ones who look at strategy games as a plague upon humanity to give it a try 
 and each said I could not imagine how much they enjoyed it. I replied, "Try me!" 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PSFREAKS
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 2, 2005 12:28 pm PT
Review:  i love this game, i think if your one of the people that love to have power in your hands, then 
 this is the right game for you. Think of it like, basicly creating the world, starting from scratch 
 and conquering everything in your path and fighting because incase you didn't know, theres many 
 many greedy emperors out there so defend your empire against these other greedy pople. in this 
 game you can pick all the presidents and the emperors that you would like, my favorite to pick 
 has to be montezuma the emperor of the azteck empire, yes and it is fun playin the as the azteck 
 empire. man and i can wait till another one comes out because this game is so good, you would eat 
 sleep, play and breath this awsome game called civilization 4, so what are you doing wasting time, 
 get to your computer and play because i garantee you'll like it . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: boogity1
Rating: 9.6
Date: Nov 2, 2005 11:12 am PT
Review:  As opposed to some of the retarded monkeys posting that the game is "severely flawed" and "won't 
 run on your computer" - I found Civ4 to be a spectacular game with very little flaws and a challenging 
 (if the settings are right) AI. 
  
  The graphics are great (a little lag during battles sometimes, but I only have a 1.8gHz with 512MB 
 RAM and a GEForce 6600 256MB card) with a noticeable change in the civs "look" as you go through 
 the "ages". Overall very good in the graphics department...
  
  Gameplay is out of sight! Seriously, it is the old, addictive Civ2 without the hellishly evil AI 
 of Civ 3 (how many people were disappointed with that game solely because of the AI? Yeah, I've 
 got my hand up right there with you!) ... Granted, the Barbarian rush around turn 30-50 was fairly 
 predictable (note: get 1 archer in your city and don't worry about a thing!) after a while, but 
 the other players (non-barbarians) usually came with enough force to take a city if they really 
 wanted (as opposed to older versions of Civ) - the bombardment addition was a GREAT touch to keep 
 the enemy horde down! (granted, I hated seeing them waste my external additions on the way to my 
 city...)
  
  Sound is actually something to comment on... It is probably the best sound any strategy game has 
 EVER had. Seriously, if you are in the initial stages, you will hear somewhat of a mood-developing, 
 barbarian state-type music. Developing a religion will get you music more towards your religion 
 of that period. Really, this ambient music set the stage for my game - I absolutely love that side 
 of the game!!!
  
  Value is right up there with a GAME OF THE YEAR when it first comes out. Much like Total Annihilation 
 (who isn't looking forward to Supreme Commander?!) , this is becoming a game that I consider to 
 be in my annuls of ALL TIME FAVORITES!!! 
  
  Best of luck!
  
  - Zero
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: kseecs16
Rating: 9.7
Date: Nov 2, 2005 11:09 am PT
Review:  This is a great game. Everything that was annoying in CIV 3 is gone, and without sacrificng any 
 gameplay. The gameplay is actually much better, the AI is much better and more realistic, the graphics 
 are great and engaging (finally an actual globe) . The map options are great and can really effect 
 the style and feel of the game. I wasn't sure what to expect with CIV 4, but I was greatly impressed. 
 I have had none of the problems of people who can't get the game to work, but I would recommend 
 beefing up your RAM if you intend to play larger maps. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: willcaff
Rating: 9.7
Date: Nov 2, 2005 7:13 am PT
Review:  Civilazation IV is the best turn based stretegy game ever made. I have been a fan of turn based 
 stragegy games and this is the best one made. The sound i sthis game is amazing and even though 
 the graphics aren't that great the gameplay is amazing. Civ IV is the type of game that will keep 
 you playing for hours at a time. More than once i've looked at the clock and seen that over 3 hours 
 have passed since i started playing. although learning the basics doesn't take very long learning 
 how to really play the game can take some time. there are so many complex things that are beneth 
 the surface. i also look foward to playing multiplayer and seeing how that will work out. the varity 
 in the games is also amazing and two of them are never even remotely similiar. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MBATH
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 2, 2005 6:38 am PT
Review:  Everyone please relax. It is still just Civilization. I have been a fan for years and years. I 
 have purchased every Civ game available including add-on and expansion packs. This latest version 
 is a very good game, but it is still just Civ. Upgraded graphics are nice, but certainly not any 
 thing earth breaking. The concept is the same with very little change of game play. I liked playing 
 the new version, but it is definitely getting old.
  
  I am sorry I have stepped on so many toes, but what am I missing? The game is worthy of an overall 
 rating of 8, but anything higher is just hype.
  
  I will keep playing because I have always loved the game, but come on guys - - let it go. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wogitalia
Rating: 4.4
Date: Nov 2, 2005 12:57 am PT
Review:  The first game that I was ever addicted to was Civ I. Between it and Warcraft I I basically didnt 
 play any other game for 6 months. Civ I would certainly be in any top 10 of games that I would 
 make. Unfortunately it is the only Civ that would feature in said list.
  
  Civ II was a backwards step. It looked better and had some nice new features, but it just didnt 
 have the same feel to it and I could never really get into it.
  
  Then came Civ III. I honestly dont know what they were thinking. The game was great for about the 
 first 50 turns and after that it just bogged down to the point where it took 5 minutes to complete 
 a turn and this is on a top end computer. It was just painfully slow and just didnt feel right. 
 The first Civ was swift moving, if you really wanted you could complete a game in a few hours but 
 at the same time could play for 20+ hours in the same game easily. Civ II was a bit slower but 
 with Civ III you couldnt complete a game in under 10 hours even if you tried because you had to 
 spend that much time waiting in mid to later stages.
  
  And then there is is Civ IV. You would have thought they might learn from the complaints about 
 Civ III, I know I wasnt the only person who hated the pacing of the game. Instead they have gone 
 and made it even slower. I spent an hour to have built 3 cities and I expand rapidly. It was painful, 
 you click end of turn on the first turn and have to wait 5-10 seconds for anything to happen. There 
 is a delay before every single unit moves. The one word that best describes it is painful. Im playing 
 it on a machine that is more than twice as fast in every area to the "Reccomended Specs" so it 
 cant possibly be hardware related surely. Which means it must just be the way the game is made. 
 I didnt even try using a large map with more opponents given how slow it was on the default settings.
 
  
  Once you get past the painfully slow waiting times involved with the game, I cant actually imagine 
 playing on the minimum specs, the game looks nice. I gave up and went back to Civ I before I got 
 into the real meat of the game, that said I had spent over 5 hours to get to a spot where it was 
 taking a good 15 seconds between turns. The game looks nice, the graphics are certainly the best 
 I have seen in a Civ game, the sound was annoying as someone who would rather have Winamp going 
 than the music in a game the stupid voice overs got more than a little irritating, though there 
 were some cool quotes but the gameplay, which will always be the heart and soul of any turnbased 
 game is sorely lacking. It may be there, but it just isnt accessible because you spend so much 
 time waiting that you get know interaction. Civ I you actually felt like a King, Civ 4 you feel 
 more like you are at a lecture at uni waiting for the lecturer to turn the damn slide and shutup 
 so you can take down the next set of notes.
  
  It is fair to say that the game is in need of a patch to fix some serious slowdowns that really 
 destroy the gameplay. In my opinion this is easily the worst game in the series and until a patch 
 is released that addresses the waiting times I will stick to Civ I. I cant reccomend this to anyone 
 who liked Civ I over Civ III or really to anyone. Give it a go though if you arent paying because 
 you may enjoy it but this is certainly not one for anybody who is not scarily patient. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: slimmc
Rating: 8.6
Date: Nov 1, 2005 10:52 pm PT
Review:  I enjoy a number of the additions to Civilization IV. The addition of civics is much more interesting 
 than the previous government type options of the previous games. I also like how the pace of the 
 game was slowed down in the earlier parts of the game. My biggest problem with the game (and it's 
 almost enough to sour me from playing more often) is how quickly the pace moves after the industrial 
 revolution. Yes, historically there was a technological explosion at this time. However, the game 
 moves so quickly in the later stages that by the time I had converted all my rifleman to infantry, 
 I was ready to start the Apollo program. I wasn't been able to build important improvements in 
 my cities by the time I was in a position to build the Space Elevator. And I was playing on the 
 "Epic" setting. I know they intended to cut down on the length of the latter part of the game, 
 but if you ask me, they cut it down by too much. The pacing of the latter part of the game has 
 to be improved before I will give this game a solid thumbs up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: n99127
Rating: 9.1
Date: Nov 1, 2005 9:36 pm PT
Review:  The Civilization franchise is perhaps the most successful gaming franchise in history. In addition 
 to the Civilization games themselves, offshoots based on Civilization, such as Master of Magic, 
 Master of Orion, and Alpha Centauri are also considered great games as well. Civilization IV builds 
 on the great gameplay of the earlier Civilization games with improvements that make it a worthy 
 addition to the franchise.
  
  In terms of gameplay, Civilization IV has definitely simplified the concepts. Corruption, commerce, 
 and city limits have thankfully been done away with, making the micromanagement of cities a lot 
 easier. The combat system has also been reworked; combats between units is now solely dependent 
 on the single property of the units' strengths. Furthermore, the old system of choosing a system 
 of government has been replaced with a system in which you can choose from five different classes 
 of civics. Overall, as you play through the game, it becomes clear that the gameplay in Civilization 
 IV is different from its predecessors.
  
  There is much to like in Civilization IV. The graphics, while certainly not cutting edge, are quite 
 sharp (for those who have decent graphic cards) . Combat is definitely much better now that the 
 units actually look like their fighting rather than just coming into contact with each other as 
 in previous Civ games. While the sound present in Civilization IV isn't that great, it is passable 
 and provides a decent background while you are engrossed in the details of your empire. Of course, 
 what's best in Civilization IV is the gameplay. One can easily spend hours building up an empire, 
 building cities, conquering other countries, and discovering new technologies.
  
  Civilization IV does have a few minor problems. Game performance does dip noticeably toward the 
 endgame, even on decent systems and for all the improvements in the gameplay, micromanaging cities 
 is still a major part of the game. In addition, some ATI users will find that the game will not 
 start.
  
  Despite a few minor flaws, Civilization IV is an excellent game worthy of its name. With its highly 
 addictivie gameplay, one can easily play the game for hours and hours and never get tired of the 
 game. Undoubtedly, Civilization IV is a game that is an excellent addition to any gamer's collection. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: eapplen
Rating: 8.8
Date: Nov 1, 2005 6:51 pm PT
Review:  Here's the simple truth - if you liked Civ's 1 or 2 (I ignore 3 pretty much all together as a not 
 so good bump in the road) , then you'll love this. The game has taken great steps forward graphically, 
 and has removed much of the tedium that came from having to micromanage each detail for every city.
 
  
  That said, the game does seem a bit shorter than the old versions, although you will still find 
 yourself looking up from your clock only to realize that you've been playing for 8 hours without 
 even realizing it.
  
  A couple of quick points:
  1) I love the soundtrack - the addition of quality music really made the game seem a bit more academic, 
 in a good way
  2) I actually kind of miss being able to zoom into my cities and seeing where everything I built 
 is... I guess it's still there, but I can't pick everything out 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kokojambo
Rating: 7.1
Date: Nov 1, 2005 6:28 pm PT
Review:  I have always loved the Civilization -series, they are addicting, time consuming and just perfectly 
 advanced. You're able to change world history, easily!
  When I first got my hands on Civilization IV, I was skeptical. Could a game with a concept so old 
 be able to still deliver what i want to play? And I wasn't to surpsied to see that it actually 
 could!
  I sat for a long time playing this game, and I could actually heard myself saying: just... one... 
 more... turn!
  One thing I do not understand is how American exists 4000BC?
  Any wy don't they merge together Civilization and Colonization to make an advanced super game? 
 So you could break off from your Motherland and start a colony somewhere?
  One thing i do know is that this game still has the magic that i found in Civilization 1, 2, and 
 3. Trust me, there is nothing like building an atomic bomb first of all civilizations and dropping 
 it on every motherf*ck*r out there.
  The gme's graphics are demanding on your PC, and why, I don't know. It's just large characters 
 on a 3D map, but the game lags if you try to play it on a larger than standard map.
  And what's up with the soundtrack? I agree with GameSpot's reviewer, it sounds like something direct 
 out of the Walt Disney movie: The Lion King. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pister
Rating: 9.6
Date: Nov 1, 2005 8:58 am PT
Review:  I remember the semester I got my first PC at college. It was a great boon to my studies as an English 
 major as I could type my papers at home. That was of course till my room mate installed Civ. Needless 
 to say, my grades and class attendance took a dive. I was immediately hooked and have been since. 
 I have played every "true" Civ game since then and I can easily say that Civ IV is the crowning 
 achievement of the series. There are many aspects of the previous versions of Civ (and Alpha Centauri) 
 that have been brought together to make one fine Civ game. It appears that the developeres have 
 really listened to their fan base and have brought the best of the past and combined it with some 
 great innovations.
  
  On the surface, the game starts just like the others. Your drop your first city and immediatly 
 begin to explore and clamor to expand to the resources and land around you. The game progresses 
 like you would expect it until you build your first worker. This is where the game takes it biggest 
 turn from the Civs of the past. With workers, you now have a vast array of choices. There are a 
 wide variety of things you can build. These choices only expand as you research techs that open 
 up more options to your workers. I found the biggest problem for me was knowing what to build to 
 best help my city. You can no longer just build a mine on grassland and irrigate/mine plains. The 
 formulas of fthe past will not work in Civ IV. The problem is that some of the early buildings 
 and improvements seem like a waste of an improvement. Fortunately, later techs and civics will 
 increase the value of these improvements, but without that prior knowledge, its very difficult 
 to know what to build. One key feature is that you no longer need roads on every tile in your kingdom. 
 Some resources require roads to connect them to cities, but most things simply require them to 
 be inside your national borders for you to gain the benefit of the tile. Having nearly completed 
 a full game now, I can see the later benefits of the improvements and I have more confidence in 
 what I build, but I definitely think it really takes playing through a whole game before you really 
 get a grasp of what improvements to build. 
  
  Another aspect of improvements is that you see some specialized squares like you saw in Alpha Centauri 
 in that one square will end up producing as much as six or more food. If you have a special food 
 (corn, wheat, pigs, cows, etc) on grassland and farm it, you could end up with a high food producing 
 square. You then need to think about balancing that with a high production square which you then 
 have to balance with a high money square. In Civ III, you did not have this concern as every square 
 produced at least some of the other. In Civ IV, you really have to plan out a city and make sure 
 they are producing all three things in relative balance. This is another aspect of making it difficult 
 to know what to improve and how to improve it.
  
  This leads to a word on automating your workers. There are three ways to automate workers: Full, 
 Nearby City, and Trade. Full automation lets the worker do whatever it pleases wherever it pleases. 
 Nearby City focuses the worker's effort on the city it is near until it is completely upgraded, 
 then it moves to the next city. Trade automation has the worker focus on building roads to connect 
 your cities and building improvements to take advantage of the special and strategic resources 
 within your borders. Trade workers will even go idle when there is nothing to do, but will spring 
 into action when you build a new city or discover a new resource. Of all the types, the Trade automation 
 is the best in my opinion. A couple of these guys will help keep roads built between cities and 
 immediately take advantage of new resources. Otherwise, It's best to learn what tiles can be improved 
 in what way, and then choose how you improve your land yourself.
  
  Otherwise, the game is very straight forward. Combat is simple since units only have a strength 
 score. Upgrading units is easy, jus refer to the poster with the upgrade chart and pick your upgrade 
 poison. Civics are easy since you gain access to them gradually and have plenty of time to access 
 how they affect your nation. Diplomacy is easy, research is easy, happiness is easy, the new food/health 
 system is easy. The good thing is that they all add up to a very diverse way of playing the game.
 
  
  One of the big questions and concerns is the religion thing. Trust me, it does not push one religion 
 over another, there are no advantages to having one religion verses another. In fact, later in 
 the game, one strategy and benefit is to have as many religions as possible. It is simply another 
 layer of depth to the game play that adds variety and more wonders to build.
  
  Let me sum up by pointing out the different aspects of the game and where they were first introduced 
 in my opinion.
  
  Cities and expanding: Civ I
  Worker improvements: lots of new improvements specific to Civ IV
  Unit upgrades: Civ IV
  Combat 
 experience: Civ II
  Collateral damage in combat: Alpha Centauri
  Diplomacy: Civ I
  Civics: Alpha Centauri
  Culture: Civ III
  Religion: Civ IV
  Tile specialties: Alpha Centauri
 
  Railroad movement: Civ IV (finally its realistic only 10 tiles/turn)
  Selective technology tree: Alpha Centauri
  Demographic information: Civ I (was gone in Civ III)
 
  Top 5 cities: Civ I (was gone in Civ III)
  Wonder list: Civ I (was gone in Civ III)
  Wonder Movies: Civ II
  Great Leaders: Civ III
  
  The point is, I really feel like this game 
 has finally taken the best aspects of all the Civs and Alpha Centauri and has combined then into 
 one GREAT game. The additions of some fresh content and strategic depth is great, but I would have 
 been happy with just the compilation of past features.
  
  Regardless, This game is great. Once you play through a game and get a feel for how develop your 
 land tiles, this game is nothing but smooth. There is no longer one way to win or one nation that 
 is the best. I get a real sense of balance and fairness to the whole game. Get it play it and have 
 tons of fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: maximuss2225
Rating: 6.2
Date: Nov 1, 2005 8:09 am PT
Review:  While i think that Civ 4 is large improvement over the last few iterations, many of the lessions 
 and improvments in realism and general comon sense have been lost. For example by Conquests many 
 units would have multiple attacks farther movement capabilities, aircraft carriers actually carried 
 a semi realistic number of aircraft. Naval ships and artillerys bombard option was not only more 
 realistic but more effective. Artillery is meant as a supporting unit it does not attack outright. 
 this is just one example. The new GUI and graphic overhall is exellent as is the improvment in 
 contruction and easy access to info. The balance i think has also degressed back to origional Civ 
 3, a rifle man should not be able to kill a Navy Seal, especially when on level ground. Where is 
 the realism??? stacked unit groups is also not as intuative as previous games. Then we get to diplomacy, 
 huge improvment in general over the last game. However i think it is simplified to the point where 
 you can't be mean and you can't hurt relations easily. Sometimes you just want to be a jerk. Naval 
 units have also gone down hill, where is my AEGIS cruser, or my Nuclear sub?? It seems that the 
 concentration was all focused on GUI and simplifiying aspects of the game. Those of us who liked 
 the massive amounts of units, variety, realism, and general complexity seemed to have been alieanated. 
 Hopefully patches, mods, and exspantions will rectify this oversite. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: harryjacobs
Rating: 9.3
Date: Nov 1, 2005 7:28 am PT
Review:  Civ IV shows that turned based strategy games have a place in today's faced pased shoot anything 
 that moves game market. After a bit of an intital problem loading the game because of the 3 cd/dvd 
 drives in my machine it loaded without incident.
  
  I started with the tutorial which took about 1 hour to go through, for earlier Civ fans this should 
 bring you up to speed quickly and get you into your first game with all you need to start out with. 
 I would like to have seen a bit of a broader incite into diplomacy but I am sure I will have the 
 bumps and bruises along the way to show for it.
  
  The game plays much the way you would expect it to with a few little interesting surprises thrown 
 in. Game play is easy and the interface is fairly easy to use. The basis of the game is the traditional 
 Expand, Explore and Exterminate. Mind you there are multiple methods to winning, not just thump 
 the other guy. You can win through Diplomacy, Extermination, Culture and of course the ever popular 
 space race.
  
  New resources, units, buildings religions and maps will keep players playin for months. This game 
 is a must for the gamer. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: argo130
Rating: 2
Date: Nov 1, 2005 6:58 am PT
Review:  First off the play and install disks are mislabeled. Not a big thing really but that struck me 
 as a bad sign. It seems I read that sign properly. The game lumbers slowly on loading and in game 
 play. Then eventually it starts the HD running nonstop and I have to do a hard reboot. My system 
 is over all the recommended specs on the box with the latest drivers installed. I called tech support 
 twice and followed all their suggestions. No help there.
  I do get to play a little before the inevitable crash hits. That little is fun. So the game, if 
 fixed, could be quite good. But I am rating the game that came out of the box not the one that 
 might be someday. Sadly Sid Meiers Civ4 is the only game in my inventory which has managed to 
 reliably and consistently crash my system.
  These are just my major issues. A quick search of game forums yields a host of other problems people 
 are having. This is especially disappointing coming from a franchise I always saw a hallmark of 
 quality. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Maeric
Rating: 9.1
Date: Nov 1, 2005 6:14 am PT
Review:  Well near pefect anyways. It has every sort of multiplayer option, including play-by-email and 
 hotseat. It's graphics are servicable and even above par for a game of it's kind. The sound is 
 good and even allows you to replace it's sound with your own MP3 collection. What more could you 
 ask for?
  
  The annoyances are that I wish it had a good tutorial for newcomers to this game, although the 
 instructions are definetly nice and the layout poster with all it's explanations is fantastic, 
 it should have some sort of guidance in game. Also, while some stuff is linkable to the Civlopedia 
 others are not. Everything should be in my opinion.
  
  The video before the game begins is alright, but not as fantastic as it has been made out to be 
 on some review sites.
  
  I just can't get enough of this game though. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: katalist
Rating: 9.4
Date: Nov 1, 2005 1:53 am PT
Review:  I wasnt a Civ fan until the second Civilization, i wasnt really sure what all the hype was on the 
 series until i got highly addicted to that second Civ. The addicting gameplay isnt found in my 
 games, you can play hours on end and kee telling yourself "just one more turn" and that one more 
 turn turns into 6:00am. The graphics are better in the new one and there are some great additions. 
 If you want to play online the option to make the game go faster is great. Me personally i sitll 
 play it on EPIC and have the games long single player. The sound and music is great to, i love 
 the intro music and the sound effects and voice acting is great stuff. I would reccomend this game 
 to new fans and old fans alike. Its a little more user friendly then the first 3 games in the series 
 but still has stuff and optinos in it to keep older civ veterans like myself happy. So what are 
 you waiting for? Go pick this great game up ASAP!
  
  The Only downfall are a few gameplay glitches that i would bet get patched up within a few weeks. 
 I personally cant recomend this agme enough, Its so fun naming your own cities, building stuff, 
 being rude to the other leaders and nice to ones who give you good deals, the list goes on really 
 as to why this game and series is one of the best. This game is right up there got GOTY on any 
 system for me.... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: raistlin999
Rating: 7.4
Date: Nov 5, 2005 1:58 am PT
Review:  i have waited fort his for 6 months and when i finally get my hands on it i am very dissappointed 
 with the performance of the game.
  my system is not that slow and meets the required spec for it, but the lockups and lagging that 
 occours after about 1 hours play really spoils the whole thing and i turn it off after gettingfed 
 up with waiting for the turn to process and move on......... fireaxis need to get on this quick 
 because people wont buy a unstable game.........................
  sound is alsoa bit buggy and loops when things get busy later on.
  
 
  update..... i have run a system mechanic and cleared alot of clutter from my machine (ram freed 
 and other files got rid of) and tegameis running without hardly any lag and i am in latter stages 
 of a game.
  just a little bit more ram was need i tink to help
  wen you build a wonder te video now runs without any probs whereas before it skipped badly.
  
 hope this might help others with delay probs.
  game is 100% more enjoyable when running right.
  raist. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: plutoman
Rating: 9.1
Date: Apr 29, 2006 8:35 pm PT
Review:  I have been a huge Civilization fan since the original. I am extremely disappointed with the fourth 
 game in the series and Firaxis. I paid 50 bucks for a BETA. It is the buggiest commercial software 
 I have ever seen. It also feels very incomplete. The game navigation system stinks and the advisors 
 are useless. Couldn't the City Advisor at least let you open a city from the list? No matter what 
 type of game I played in Single Player mode, after about 5 turns or so, the game would crash -- 
 sometimes even locking up my Windows XP operating system. I haven't had to reboot from a "game 
 crash" since Windows 98!! If I were Sid Meier, I would be embarrassed.
  
  4/29/06 Update - With the last two patches I feel I need to update my review. I now thoroughly 
 enjoy this game. It is just as addictive as the others in the series. I really like being able 
 to change the production order in many cities at once. The graphics are much better and the game 
 is pretty fast. It on; y crashed on me once since the last patch after I had been playing for ten 
 hours straight. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MicroM336
Rating: 9.3
Date: Oct 31, 2005 8:46 pm PT
Review:  I've always been a fan of the Civ series but I wasn't sure about this game when I saw the first 
 few previews for it. Anyway I had no need to fear. Civ IV definitely surpasses all of the previous 
 Civ games. I've only played on game all the way through, but the game just feels really good. I 
 like how they've brought back an open technology tree as I did not like how it was split up into 
 eras in Civ III. I also like the new military system with upgrades based on experience too.
  
  One of my favorite features of Civ IV has to be religion and the civics. I think letting the 
 user make up his own system of government works really well. I find it works really well to keep 
 everything running smoothly as you can usually make something work to your advantage. Also the 
 new religion feature, though not very in depth can also help a lot with keeping your people happy, 
 making money (always a big issue for me) and getting more experience for ones troops.
  
  I found that these features along with the tweaking of many others and the many land improvements 
 really make the game play very well. And because so many things can be put on auto and do a pretty 
 good job the games pace is much better than previous 
::::::

::::::
UserName: aptdwn26
Rating: 7.7
Date: Oct 31, 2005 8:32 pm PT
Review:  Civilization IV is a great game, but its more of the same with a few extra kicks. I was expecting 
 more, but I'm happy. I was hoping for better graphics and some better ending. They improved both 
 a little but they could of done more with the current gaming technologies. The game is still enjoyable 
 to play, and I would recommend it to anyone that likes turn based strategy games. I was actually 
 surprised that there is a multiplayer that is email based! Play online! Play with your friends! 
 Play solo! It is a great game, just don't have high expectations. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dreamsum
Rating: 9.2
Date: Oct 31, 2005 7:49 pm PT
Review:  Being an avid fan of the civ series since the 2nd gold edition made it to my desktop, i can say 
 that Civalization IV takes the game to new and greater heights than ever before. There are a few 
 minor problems i can see, but its ALMOST perfect. First off the gameplay is still all Civilization, 
 and this pleases me greatly, and the addition of many new features help. I still fall in love with 
 my Civ, and i can still stare at my empire with pride, the only thing that takes away from it is 
 the addition of faster gameplay. Now i know that this feature pleases many fans, but i am not one 
 of them. i ziped right through the first few ages so quickly i had hardly any time to use some 
 of the new interesting early game units. I liked spending a long long time playing this game as 
 one civ, letting me really focus on the game as a whole and not just one "round" i might have played 
 through in a few days. The ability to slow the game down slightly helps, but not all that much. 
 Other than that, i'd like to say that i was a sceptic of the new graphics when looking at screen 
 shots for the game, call me old fashioned if u wish, but i truly enjoy a clean crisp 2d map style 
 game like Civ III.
  But when i bought the game the new graphics grew on me quickly. I still love the deplomacy, and 
 those little bits of humor that are thrown in to the personalities of leaders. But i still loved 
 the live action advisors of Civ II that always cracked me up. The only technical problems have 
 to due with video card compatability, as an ATI user, theres a nasty one out there!! i fixed the 
 initial problem, but i do get the ocasional crash, anoying i must say. The last thing i can say 
 is that if u liked past Civ games get this one imediately. Its truly worth it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jeffsiver
Rating: 7.9
Date: Oct 31, 2005 6:56 pm PT
Review:  I loved the three previous games. I still play Civ3 quite a bit. 
  
  And with this new one, some o f the improvements are really nice. I enjoy the music and the graphics 
 are good (though my kids want to know why all the people look like giants next to the buildings) . 
 And not having to deal with civil unrest is nice. I also enjoy the promotions on the units and 
 the changes to the Wonders; most of those helped.
  
  However, the things that I don't like:
  
  1) The maps are just too small. It is pretty early 
 in the game for the map to fill up with citiies leaving no place to build. And, the game keeps 
 telling you to build settlers to expand your civ; it just doens't realize that there is no place 
 to put them.
  
  2) They reintroduced some of the weird defense in the battles that I remember from Civ1 and Civ2. 
 The worst example I've seen quite a bit is losing a Helicopter Gunship to Pikemen. Civ3 fixed this 
 problem (mostly) but Civ4 seems to have re-introduced it. 
  
  Overall, so far, it hasn't grabbed me the way the previous three did. So, I'm disappointed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: midfingr
Rating: 5.1
Date: Oct 31, 2005 3:33 pm PT
Review:  Ooops. Not my kind of game. I'm not a big fan of turn-based games. I found this game really boring. 
 But you if you like these kind of games, I guess it's okay. But for me, I couldn't play it for 
 more than five minutes without falling asleep. 
  Aside from that, the graphics were okay and the sound options had lots of choices. I didn't really 
 like the intreface. It reminded me more of a golf game than anything else. I do like stratigy games, 
 but as I said before, this kind of turn based game is just too tediuos. I find it hard to write 
 100 words on this - lol. Not much else to say. I don't care much for the game and I can't recommend 
 it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Outsider1580
Rating: 4.1
Date: Oct 31, 2005 2:50 pm PT
Review:  I am going to be brief, Civ IV in my opinion and I am sure many others falls quite short of my 
 expectations. I was excited and looking forward to a good epoch game and in turn I got a quick 
 waste of time, almost all aspects of this game are the same with Civ III with exception Military 
 Units... upgrades. Ok so you have an expanded Diplomacy at the cost of game play. I started a game 
 after what seemed like years of waiting for it too load (and my computer exceeded the recommended 
 settings) and after which it did finaly load the game was over. I felt no need to continue playing 
 after it reached 2050 seeing as how there really was no point, considering it took me about 3 hours 
 to play to completion minus load times and wait, with no satisfaction in the end and the long load 
 times I simply ended my game and packed it away at a loss of 50$. If you liked Civ III then you 
 pry will like this game, but if you were a fan of Civ 1 and 2 you may not like this game. About 
 the only thing EPOCH in this game was the load times for nearly everything. I gave this game the 
 boot after trying to play a few games! I do not recommend it!
  
  PS dont click on Military advisor you may be in for a substantial wait! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: UberNova
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 31, 2005 9:22 am PT
Review:  First off, I want to say I like the game and it's about time Civilization came out with a new addition 
 and it was totally worth the wait. Especially since they brought back the videos for the world 
 wonders. But I feel sad that they had to lower the amount of civilizations you can play so the 
 company can bring them out in the expansion packs. Other than that issue, I love the game. The 
 interface is different and takes time to get used to and this game will make you upgrade your computer 
 because it's so great. I'm not another fan boy or whatever but i truely enjoy this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: M1Dw1nT3r
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 31, 2005 7:57 am PT
Review:  I have always loved the Civilization -series, they are addicting, time consuming and just perfectly 
 advanced. You're able to change world history, easily!
  
  When I first got my hands on Civilization IV, I was skeptical. Could a game with a concept so old 
 be able to still deliver what i want to play? And I wasn't to surpsied to see that it actually 
 could!
  
  I sat for a long time playing this game, and I could actually heard myself saying: just... one... 
 more... turn!
  
  One thing I do not understand is how American exists 4000BC?
  
  Any why don't they merge together Civilization and Colonization to make an advanced super game? 
 So you could break off from your Motherland and start a colony somewhere?
  
  One thing i do know is that this game still has the magic that i found in Civilization 1, 2, and 
 3. Trust me, there is nothing like building an atomic bomb first of all civilizations and dropping 
 it on every motherf*ck*r out there.
  
  The game's graphics are demanding on your PC, and why, I don't know. It's just large characters 
 on a 3D map, but the game lags if you try to play it on a larger than standard map.
  
  And what's up with the soundtrack? I agree with GameSpot's reviewer, it sounds like something direct 
 out of the Walt Disney movie: The Lion King. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spiderfan2025
Rating: 9.8
Date: Oct 31, 2005 6:33 am PT
Review:  I had not played a Civilization game before this one. I thought they looked somewhat boring. Finally, 
 based on friends suggestions and reading reviews I decided the game was worth a try, but I was 
 still fairly convinced I would find it boring. I was WRONG. The game is simply amazing and it is 
 addictive.
  
  It blends good gameplay with ease of use. It isn't difficult to grasp how to play, and the game 
 makes sure you know when there are idle units, or when it is time to build something else in a 
 city. Although this does get somewhat annoying at times because the game will keep moving the camera 
 to an idle unit for me while I am trying to give other units orders first.
  
  I'd go on about all the games different features and why they are enjoyable, but there are just 
 too many to talk about. I highly recommend this game for it's playability and its just overall 
 level of fun. You don't have to be a fan of strategy games to enjoy this one, just a fan of video 
 games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dv8dan
Rating: 7.3
Date: Oct 31, 2005 6:12 am PT
Review:  I'm running this on an p4 3400 mhz, 1 gb ddr2 ram, 256 Ati x850 PE machine and it bogs down. Well 
 not at first , but later on when you zoom all the way out .. it even froze on me once.. this should 
 not be happening. The slowness of the game really detracts form game play. I loved CIV III, but 
 CIV IV is a bust, do not buy it unless you have a monster machine. Right when I installed it, it 
 would not run on my machine until I downloaded the catalyst drivers, and once I did it started 
 beeping at me. I run WOW, DOOM 3, Unreal Tournament 2004 all at highest graphics and have never 
 had it freeze up on me. CIV IV completely locked up my computer. 
  
  Some beef I have about the game in general. There are no health bars.. (I think you can turn them 
 on) , but you have no idea how much health your units have. Also I was sending a marine up against 
 a cavalier somewhere towards the end of the game, and the Cavalier killed not only my marine, but 
 my tank as well, how in the world! The game went by way to fast, I did not feel attached to any 
 of my cities, I did not even build up my military , no one was attacking me, so what's the point. 
 Anyway, I was very disappointed because I was expecting a lot more out of the game, and it just 
 did not play like CIV III. Oh and the movies are all showing off the 3d engine.. I want more movies 
 like Alpha Centaury (btw they need a sequel for that game) . Anyway I think CIV made a move to 3d 
 a little too early, or at least they did not make the thing compatible enough for my machine to 
 run it without installing the catalyst drivers which make my computer beep every 10 minutes (I'm 
 assuming my graphics card is overheating or something)
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: MaistoFossil22
Rating: 9.3
Date: Oct 31, 2005 4:55 am PT
Review:  When Civilization IV was coming out I was thinking it was gunna be the same old thing like Civilzation 
 III and all its expansions and what not. I was wrong. This game offers so much more and it is alot 
 more fun and easier to work with. You can twink alot of things to fit your needs. Plus this game 
 is so in depth about time periods and technology. The graphics are not stunning, but sure do get 
 the job done. I enjoyed this game alot because of its somewhat historical backround, being that 
 I am a huge history buff. Plus the multiple victory conditions is a very nice touch. Plus one game 
 will take up alot of your time if you start in the year 4000 BC all the way to the end at year 
 2050 AD. The only problem I had with this game is that towards the end of your civilization, it 
 gets a bit crowded with roads and huge cities. Though this maybe my fault for not organizing the 
 way you should, but even I was doing it right this problem does not equal the greatness from this 
 game. Also another cool part of this game is the wonders. When you build a wonder the game will 
 treat you with a little video of the wonder being constructed. One thing I enjoyed personally was 
 the nuclear explosions. This game to me has the best looking nuclear attacks. Overall, if you like 
 turn based strategy games and historical themes, then pick this one up, you will not regret it. 
 Its one of the few games worth the whole $55. 
  
  PS: If you do get this game and havnt played Civilzation at all before, it might be a good idea 
 to play the tutorial. It really helps and it is quite fun, not boring and annoying like most other 
 tutorials. Plus Sid Meier is your navigator through the tutorial so thats pretty cool. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xanopheles
Rating: 9.8
Date: Oct 31, 2005 4:52 am PT
Review:  First of all, i played civ3 a lot.
  
  Civ4 basically looks like an optimized graphically AND gameplay version of civ3, and i like it. 
 
  
  GOOD stuff:
  
  1. They fixed some gameplay "abuses": for ex. technology and resource trading starts later, or, 
 the "start makin "sheelds" and swith it to a wonder when the wonder gets available isnt possible 
 anymore... so they actually focussed and fixed a lot of gameplay stuff.
  2. It still looks good.
  3. Sound is great. You can also play your own music.
  4. Fun
  5. Addictive
 
  6. depth and complexity that is easy to master
  7. They kept the good stuff from civ3
  
  BAD stuff:
  1. Addictive
  2. My specs are way over recommended, but on medium settings and when 
 playing a hughe map the frames per second drop a lot. The game however never crashed .
  
  Conclusion: Its the best in series. With or without the civ3 background, it is a great game and 
 you probably gonna love it. 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: joe_calzone
Rating: 8.8
Date: Oct 31, 2005 4:31 am PT
Review:  OK, if you want a review of the game just stop reading here and go somewhere else.
  
  Well, the game is great, etc... we all know... Just one thing os definitely NOT RIGHT: the quality 
 of the production. The game is a receptacle of bug: awful translations, tons of formatting errors, 
 the game "vanishes into nothing" at some poit with certain graphic cards, and any other kind of 
 bug you can imagine...
  
  It seems this is just a BETA, not a final release. Don't buy this game.
  I'm sorry for the developers 
 who strove to realize a great game, but probably the publisher pushed them to release this UNFINISHED 
 sh! t.
  
  This aspect of the quality is completely unacceptable. And what they did in these days? Released 
 a patch? Noooooo! They just came out with some fan-site construction kit of which nobody cares 
 about... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tieio
Rating: 9.3
Date: Oct 31, 2005 2:21 am PT
Review:  It has been a lot of hours since I purchased Civ4 and I am not sure if I can keep my eyes open 
 much longer, but I do know this, it was worth every minute and I look forward to doing it all again 
 after a nice sleep.
  
  If this sounds like your usual Civilization practice, then you too may just be ready for another 
 dose of hardcore gaming curtousy of the person who bring you some of the most addictive games around, 
 Sid Meier. I likely can't count how many hours I have sunk into his games and I probably never 
 will, but I am prepared to do it all again.
  
  At first Civ4 is a little different to get used to, like any new game after a previous version. 
 My first impression after 10 minutes was, "ok, this is going to take some getting used to".
  
  Thankfully it didn't take long to get used to and I was well under way into a brand new experience 
 trying to once again overtake the other powers of the world using all of my Civ know-how. I cannot 
 simply come right out and say this is probably the best game ever made can I? Well, I won't, just 
 in case someone decides to blame me if they disagree. I will safely say though, that this is a 
 game for all people, not just strategy game fans, and not just people who have played the previous 
 versions either.
  
  I am now going to sleep and play this game some more, but I know my opinion won't change, so I 
 wanted to get this posted up while I had some spare time, because I may not have anymore for a 
 long while. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Danius
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 30, 2005 10:47 pm PT
Review:  I was one of the many people who experienced serious issues with the release version of this game 
 due to an incompatibility bug between the release version of the game and ATI graphics boards. 
 The bug, and my love for the Civilization series, led me to sit at my computer, read through hundreds 
 and hundreds of forum postings, and spend about 4 hours total when I first got the game trying 
 to get it to work. I gotta tell you guys something. It was worth every second!!!!!!!!
  
  The first thing that you will notice when you first play Civ IV is the incredible production quality 
 of the game. After 4 hours of game crashes and debugging the thing, I was greeted by the angelic 
 voices of the choir and the beauty of the intro music. Once the game started I found that the graphics 
 are incredible!!! The landscapes the cities, the units, the UI, everything is just beautiful. Civ 
 IV also has cameos by, series creator, Sid Meyer, who is your host and guide through the tutorial, 
 and Lenord Nemoy, who provides voiceovers of quotes from famous historical figures, which tie that 
 specific tech into the history of man. Everything is done top notch and you can tell that this 
 game truly is a CELEBRATION OF EVERYTHING THAT IS CIVILIZATION!!! Then, I started warring with 
 the scum that surrounded my glorious empire. The battles between units themselves are just awesome 
 and a whole hell of a lot of fun to watch.
  
  I held off on the review for a few days so I can really delve into the game play and get a good 
 idea of the latest installment in this series. Admittedly, I began my first single player campaign 
 on a slightly easier than normal difficulty settings so I could advance pretty easily to the later 
 parts of the game and get a good initial idea of the game's layout. I began on a huge map and set 
 the time settings to "Epic" (I told you I was going to take my time.) I am finding myself so consumed 
 with the depth of Civ IV that I find it almost impossible to stop playing it (which is becoming 
 a problem) . 
  
  I know a lot of people who were fans of the first Civilization game and haven't played a newer 
 version since. They all expressed extreme concern over whether the guys over at 2k and fraxis would 
 be able to succeed at doing that and, I gotta say, they did the job perfectly. Veteran's of the 
 Civilization series will discover that this games follows, to a tee, the fundamentals of Civilization. 
 Civ IV has stuck as close as possible to the laws of Civilization while improving, or making more 
 efficient, everything about the game. 
  
  The additions to the game, such as religion, civics, unit experience, and great people, allow you 
 to be more involved in the politics of your empire. While which religion you choose for your nation 
 doesn't really matter, the addition of them to the game presents the player with additional city 
 developments and can play a very important role when it comes to relationships with your neighboring 
 countries. Civics allow you to micromanage your civilizations politics far beyond simply deciding 
 between an Monarchy, Democracy, etc. Each civic effects either labor, economy, trade, religious 
 aspects,.... and I cant think if there are anymore right now, but there might be. Unit experience 
 and the ability to "level-up" your units is a very welcome "RPG-ish" addition to the game. You 
 can now specialize your units for specific tasks like city defense or unit to unit fighting. You 
 will find yourself protecting your veteran units and can sometimes really determent a military 
 action if one of these guys dies. This has also made attacking a WHOLE lot more strategic and just 
 damn fun.
  
  The exclusions, or consolidations to the game are all brilliant changes to the game play relieves 
 much of the annoying micromanagement aspects of prior installments. Examples of some of the things 
 they have changed for the better are consolidating the Power/Defense property of units a single 
 number representing its Power. When it comes to city development, they have improved the effects 
 and the byproducts of everything! I mean a lot of the effects of buildings have improved in realism 
 and the behavior of the actual citizens have become almost rational and down right logical. I am 
 no writer so let me try to give you an example. You can now grow a city beyond a population of 
 9 without the construction of an Aqueduct, but you will soon start to see the health of the citizens 
 in that city to drop due to overpopulation. If your workforce is to sick to work from crawling 
 around in their own feces all day then how far to you think your civilization is going to get?
 
  
  Alright, the truth is that I can go on and on about what is great about this game. The bottom line 
 is, this game is FU-KING FANTASTIC!!!!!!! It is by far the best game Ive played in a long long 
 time and it is arguably THE BEST addition to the civilization series. If you don't have this game 
 yet, just get up right now and get it, now! FASTER!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: zephrr86
Rating: 9.8
Date: Oct 30, 2005 10:08 pm PT
Review:  okay first off i was about to say that FEAR was the game of the year just 2 short weeks ago. then 
 i got my hands on Civ 4, and holy **** this game ROCKS!!!. first off ill tell you that i could 
 not stand the last 2 major stragegy game offerings, them being AOE 3 and Empire Earth 2. i simply 
 thought both were just below average RTSs, especially when compared to the originals in each series, 
 and of course after playing Rise Of Nations. but enough of that, CIV IS BACK!!!. if u have played 
 a civ game b4, u should know what to expect. ur gonna get hours upon hours of gameplay, thats simplistic 
 in thought but extremely challenging in action. in CIV 4 u control ur empire, be it Roman, Greek, 
 Indian etc, and try to win by one of many different ways. diplomacy, domination, even win by making 
 it to alpha centurari by way of shuttle. its really amazing the depth this game holds, and in the 
 end its a pretty simple board game. ive spent the last 4 days playing this game religiously, and 
 ill tell you not a minute (or should i say hour) has gone by that ive had a single moment of boredom. 
 this game is gonna stay in my PC for many many months to come. im not gonna say for sure but this 
 game is certainly shaping up to be the game of the year, at least in this gamers mind. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Drekey
Rating: 8.9
Date: Oct 30, 2005 9:48 pm PT
Review:  Civ IV comes with everything it said it would come. It is indeed addictive, but so were all the 
 others, so nothing new there. The really USP here its the great effort that Firaxis put into creating 
 a trully user friendly game. Ok if you don't do the tutorial, even if you'r a Civ Veteran. there 
 are some thing you won't understand, because they are new to the game, like the town health indicator, 
 or the Great Persons, but even so, after completing the 15 minute tutorial, you'r ready to go. 
 
  This game really is a great strategy game, from top to bottom, and as any really good strategy 
 game, it lets you adopt dozens of diferente strategies. And I'm not only talking about the diferente 
 Victory ways, I'm talking about the strategy you adopt during the all game, or you'r a Great Person 
 afficionated or just a straight forward army builder.
  There are though, not so nice things about Civ IV. First of all, and this is a personal dislike, 
 don't know if anyone there cared about it, but the Advisors Pictures, where just taken off, and 
 i really enjoyed those, you could say when you were doing good ou not just by looking theyr faces. 
 There is also a small problem about the interface, even though they are pretty user friendly, when 
 it comes to understanding it, they are not as user friendly when it comes to using it, it seems 
 like Firaxis had a really short time to deliver the game, so they just upgraded a bit the interface 
 from the beta. It isn't that atractive and/or easy to use. Not that the right options aren't there, 
 and i'll get to that in a sec, but thei're just confusing and sometimes even tyring. And their 
 complete lack of style just don't do the imersion trick that an interface is supose to do. 
  About the new Options, they're just great. 
  So, it is indeed a great Strategy game, and it gets 
 pretty adictive, but its not that pretty or imersive, don't know if it is because of the characters, 
 that are not that interesting, or because of the layout, or because all of it together, but sometimes, 
 you just don't feel that much in the game, and come out disapointed when you build a Battleship, 
 and it is just a bigger version of the Destroyer...
  Oh, I almost forgot, the new reshearch Quotes.. just great.. good job Firaxis 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Baer
Rating: 9.6
Date: Nov 5, 2005 12:47 pm PT
Review:  I have played all the Civs and this one is by far the best in every way. The graphics are excellent 
 and interesting, the sound is great and the interface is much improved. I find it has the same 
 old "One More Turn" quality. 
  
  Religon has been handled well, it had to be added and has been done so with great care and sensitivity.
 
  
  The only reason I did not rate this game a 10 is the map, while being greatly imnproved is, IMHO 
 a little busy at times and the other civ's borders are not always as clearly defined as I would 
 have liked. Not a big deal however.
  
  I am playing with all settings maxed using a resolution of 1900 X 1200 (wide screen) on a 24" SyncMaster, 
 it looks beautiful. I have rated the learning curve at 30 to 60 minutes however if you have played 
 Civ before, 20 minutes in the tutorial and you will be ready!
  
  I am adding to this review I wrote last week as I have seen a few others talk about bugs and slow 
 play. I am running with all settings maxed out, I have not had a single CTD and all play is smooth 
 and fast. I have now played an additional 20 hours without a single performance issue.
  
  I have now won a game (space race) I must admit to being disapointed that the space ship does not 
 appear and show it's progress until it is launched. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sedryn
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 30, 2005 5:27 pm PT
Review:  I'm going short and sweet on this review.
  
  If you're a civilization fan, you should definitely get this game. It makes up for what was something 
 of a let down (for me anyway) with Civilization III. Much of the tedium has been replaced by new, 
 viable strategic options. How many hours of your life did you waste ordering workers in Civilization 
 III to clean pollution squares? All of that crap is gone in Civ IV. 
  
  The details aren't really important , though, and discovering them for yourself is part of the 
 fun so I see no point in listing off every single great aspect of the game, of which there are 
 several.
  
  It's just a fun game to play - well designed and implemented. However, the instructions provide 
 in the manual and civilopedia aren't quite complete. You'll have to search the in-game menus for 
 answers to a few specifics (if you care enough) . Other than slightly incomplete instructions, I 
 have no complaints.
  
  As I look through the various negative reviews I'm astounded by how many impatient idiots purchased 
 this game. Most complaints would have been non-issues had the complainer even once looked at the 
 options menu. Such is life, though. Some people are just plain retarded. If you're one of them, 
 don't buy this game. It's a strategy game that requires patience and its pace isn't for everyone.
 
  
  Enjoy the game, it's one of the best turn-based strategy games since Master of Magic. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cbesett
Rating: 8.8
Date: Oct 30, 2005 3:59 pm PT
Review:  I've been playing Civ since 1992 and it's amazing how, even with all the ripoff games in the same 
 vein, it remains a leader and innovator. While some folks like the insane action of RTS, Civilization 
 allows one to be more thoughtful about gameplay -- more like chess.
  
  The presentation is just marvelous -- with great graphics that even with all settings turned to 
 the max, are snappy and just right. The wonder movies are astonishing as well although I did find 
 some sound glitches in them.
  
  Finally you can zoom all the way into your cities and every city looks different based on the choices 
 that you've made through the game. Developed tiles around them slowly turn into suburban sprawl 
 and the whole effect is very realistic. The animation on the ground is also very good and adds 
 alot of beauty to the map.
  
  The sound design is amazing with a wonderful soundtrack. The main menu music is just for color 
 but i find myself sitting on the screen to let it play. The music choices are interesting and varied 
 and suitable for the period. Mozart and the classics are to be expected. What I didn't expect was 
 to hear clips from the opera "Nixon in China". Amazing to hear.
  
  Units animate much better and combat is the pretty much the same "dice roll" type that has always 
 been in the game. While it is more balanced than before, with city defenses a group of archers 
 can still defeat units with guns. What adds a nice "RPG" feel is the upgrades through XP that you 
 can give your units. This takes units to a whole new level and encourages combat.
  
  The resources are much more developed and make it more fun. Workers now have many levels of duties 
 they can do. While this is fun for while -- like old games once you have 20 workers going you just 
 automate them and don't think of them again. This is a strength and a weakness. It's great not 
 to micromanage but why have something the computer is going to play for you? I wish there was more 
 decisions that needed to be made in that respect that could affect how your game develops.
  
  And as with previous versions this is an overall problem. The later stages of the game do bog 
 down in popup clicking and choosing what to build. In the earlier phases it has alot of importance 
 and if you are a warring nation it does. Being a peaceful, powerful nation is pretty boring though. 
 Decision making is not as imporant or complex. Discoveries are nil and the game gets repetitive.
 
  
  Battle though is pretty fun though so the best way to combat the above is to... well, combat. 
 
  
  The A. I. on the level I played was pretty weak. Asking someone to go to war with you gets no coordinated 
 effort. In fact the other nation didn't do one thing except move their units around. One time they 
 even captured a city after watching me do all the work! This area could use alot of improvement 
 as there is really no strategic reason to do it.
  
  The Wonders are back although later in the game they don't really add a whole lot. Mainly they 
 will increase your culture. Only at the very end did any cities convert to my nationality due to 
 culture. Occasionally a Wonder will afford you the ability to build something.
  
  New in the game is the "Great Person" concept which adds another layer of choice onto what to do 
 with your city. I wish they would do more than they do. After awhile it is a bit repetitive. Plus 
 there is no explanation on who that person is so you can at least learn something. Mainly each 
 category of person does the same thing.
  
  The Civilopedia is back but doesn't seem as helpful as in previous versions. It's sad to see it 
 actually get worse and less helpful. Also in that category are the "advisors" which are pretty 
 useless here. Luckily other parts of the game provide insight so you don't need them quite as much.
 
  
  It might seem like there are alot of negatives but there is alot of good stuff and it is definitely 
 the best version of the game yet. Highly recommended and still as addictive as ever. But... the 
 replay value is lacking as once you do it a few times, it doesn't vary enough to really warrant 
 much repeating. The higher levels basically allow the other civs to "cheat" by getting things faster. 
 I haven't tried but one level so that remains to be tested.
  
  Overall, thumbs up. Go buy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: whugster
Rating: 4.1
Date: Oct 30, 2005 3:34 pm PT
Review:  I would have to admit first that I like turn-based games and this is only my second time playing 
 the Civ series (I played the Civ 1 many years ago) . This game still feels like the original one. 
 It's slow and boring and absolutely no immersion factor. The graphics are hardly interesting, there 
 are no nice-looking buildings and impressive units -- it's like playing an animated board game. I 
 am sure you can play the same game in text-mode and it won't make any difference. There is no flow 
 to the interface. There are stats and numbers and small icons, and you can't use your intuition 
 to determine what things mean and what they do. This clearly has a geek following but it just doesn't 
 seem enjoyable to me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gen_Rommel
Rating: 9.6
Date: Oct 30, 2005 9:55 am PT
Review:  This Civilization is just like the others except its patched up the way the others never were heh. 
 This games unit vs unit system is not as bad as the others because as we all recall in the previous 
 ones a spearman could defeat a tank somehow with there rusty stone headed spears. Well the only 
 problem is that still sorta applies under certain conditions such as if the towns defense the units 
 in is like 80% and the archers are in the town and you attack the town with a modern tank you can 
 beat it but theres a possibilty youll still lose. That means somehow revolutionary rifles and ancient 
 crossbows are penetrating modern tank armor dont ask how just something Sid still needs to work 
 on. Mainly thats the only flaw with this game I get aggrivated when riflemen from the 1700's take 
 on my mechanized infantry that has bradleys that light them up like crazy and they still defeat 
 my infantry. Alot of times the only way to get around this is to do a strength vs weakness move 
 like artillary vs machine gun artillary wins and attack copter vs tank copter wins sort of thing. 
 Sid miers game would have been truley worth at least 9.8 if he would have fixed that. It is better 
 but not completely fixed. Oh and one more thing the tech tree was VERY nicely arranged this time 
 it is perfect complex but simple and very easy to understand. But as far as the goverment stance 
 went you couldnt really directly choose all that much anymore you take more stances than what you 
 do actual goverments. Such as you research facism but you make your country a police state to a 
 facist type goverment you dont really choose like you did in the last one. Lol one more thing I 
 forgot again is religion awsome idea but really REALLY REALLY needs to be fixed. Because of the 
 fact you research judaism, christianity, bhuddism, taoism and each one you research your citys 
 have that religion in them so theres really no way to have a dominant religion because alot of 
 the religions you have to research to get to others and if your the first to discover that religion 
 your city will become the holy city where it was founded making it a fanatical place of that religion 
 just something that really really needs touching up somehow. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mowery25
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 30, 2005 9:38 am PT
Review:  I know what I'll be doing the next year of my life. The night I got it, I finally managed to get 
 to bed around 4am. This game takes all the best parts of Civ III, adds some new depth and improves 
 the graphics for a solid, solid game. Obviously the replayability is endless, so I don't think 
 I'll need to buy any new games for a while. Anyone who enjoys strategy gaming will be hooked from 
 the beginning. 
  
  I love the "RPG" style level-up ability for units. This adds something for the RPG fans that strategy 
 fans will nonetheless appreciate. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Karl319
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 18, 2009 6:47 am PT
Review:  So you've seen loads of reviews here going along the lines of "This form of digital entertainment 
 suffers under homosexual preferences" you think they are totally nuts? I agree, but I wont start 
 flaming here, no need for that.
  
  Civilization IV, the newest in the series of the great Civ series, and it is the BEST in the series 
 as far as I'm concerned, not just because of it's 3D Graphics, but all the little things. Civilization 
 IV is no different than the others as far as the basics are concerned, you start with 1 settler 
 and a small village, advance, learn new technology, fight or win with diplomacy. 
  
  All of these things have now been tweaked, the combat makes more sense, nicely animated, the diplomacy 
 has SO many new features and options. The game has a fun multiplayer, and it doesn't take days 
 to play 1 game, if you put your mind to it, it can be over in just as fast as 2-3 hours, and you 
 can just start from the modern age instead of the stone age, should you wish to skip that far. 
 
  
  The game may seem complicated when you first play it, but surprisingly you can learn the game in 
 30-60 minutes, or even less if you have played previous civ. games. As always there's an option 
 to read the manual or in-game help. There is also a variety of scenarios and custom maps you can 
 play, loads of countries to choose from amongst which are different leaders for each with different 
 bonuses. The graphics aren't stunning, but need they be for this kind of game? They do the job 
 just fine, no complaints. 
  
  Civilization IV : 9.3 of 10 ! Superb!
  
  Final word : If you EVER liked the civilization series, then you would be a fool not to get this. 
 In fact, even if you never played a Civ. game, you would still be missing out on a great strategy 
 game.
  
  Definitely worth trying. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BornGamer
Rating: 9.3
Date: May 18, 2006 9:40 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay:
  
  Having found the previous three incarnations of the Civ series to be clunky and ugly (sorry Civ 
 fans) , I'm very surprised by the effective and streamlined way Civ IV presents your choices. This 
 makes the game a lot more enjoyable to play and should open up the game's player-base greatly.
 
  
  This game is not for those of you who have a short attention span, or whose usual goal in a computer 
 game is to "pwn" as many other players as possible.
  
  Graphics:
  
  Civ IV's graphics are not technically heart-stopping, but they're aesthetically excellent, displaying 
 every aspect of the game clearly and accessibly. The "globe" view of the play area is a great idea, 
 very nicely implemented.
  
  Sound:
  
  The soundtrack is one of the best I've heard in a game and it adds to the immersion immensely, 
 while the effects are functional and unobtrusive.
  
  Value:
  
  You'll either play Civ IV for a few minutes or a few years, so it's worth trying the game out before 
 you invest/waste $50.
  
  Summary:
  
  Browsing through the reviews on Gamespot it's clear that people either love or hate this game. 
 A telling point though is that those who hate it are incapable of writing a coherent review or 
 following traditional grammatical guidelines.
  
  It definitely needs a patch or two to add polish and to fix a few bugs and ATI-related problems 
 (which I can't comment on as I own a real video card) , but the game shines nonetheless.
  
  Very highly recommended. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jknemesis
Rating: 6.8
Date: Oct 30, 2005 2:57 am PT
Review:  Lets get the good things out of the way:
  -Yes, the small adjustments to the game since Civ III are nice. The improved diplomacy, combat, 
 production, and city health systems all remove the annoying aspects of the game series and add 
 a touch of original flare.
  -The soundtrack is amazing. It includes classical works by world renowned classical/baroque/romantic 
 composers, which is a rare find in today's game market. I hear Sid did a few of the compositions, 
 kudos to him for such a wonderful contribution.
  -CivIV features the same classic gameplay we might expect from Sid Meier. It just so happens this 
 is also one of the "cons" for this game.
  
  Unfortunately, Civ IV is just not as big a step up from its predecessor as Civ III was to Civ II. 
 This new installment really doesn't even feel like a standalone game. It shipped without certain 
 features it was originally to include, which is a fairly big disappointment. Furthermore, the graphics 
 aren't much of a step up from Civ III, and the Civlopedia (crucial to beginners) is not very well 
 laid out and feels incomplete, since it leaves out a lot of important game concepts. 
  
  Most importantly, though, is that the gameplay is not much changed beyond a bit of tweaking here 
 and there. Civ IV is just Civ III with a little makeover. Like a makeover for your grandmother, 
 it's not much of a change. People who grew weary of Civ III are going to find themselves sick of 
 IV in a snap.
  
  If you're new to Civ, try it out. The game is still likely lots of fun for beginners, but as a 
 veteran, I actually decided to give my copy away to a friend. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ruonavd
Rating: 9.1
Date: Oct 30, 2005 1:32 am PT
Review:  Civilization is one of the most renowned strategy games of all time. Civilization IV only improves 
 upon the design of the model. Those looking for new and interesting aspects of the game will find 
 exciting changes in this installment. First of all the music is phenomenal, especially the main 
 menu music. Each era is surrounded by appropriate music of the time as you play through the game. 
 Also, the game has been streamlined, no more running through screen after screen of information. 
 You never have to open another city screen if you chose not to. Automation is extremely helpful 
 for beginners, but veterans have the opportunity to turn it off for complete control. Diplomacy 
 makes sense no, and the AI is a lot less agressive at least in the easier difficulties such as 
 noble and below. Graphics have received a huge overhaul and have been transformed into the 3-D 
 realm. Although this game isn't meant to push the boundries of extremely awesome graphics, if it 
 had made the graphics any better, then it would be hard to reach as many users. This means that 
 people will need hardier systems than with the previous games. According to many there have been 
 bugs in the game, but I have yet to see even one. The design seems flawless and yet people are 
 quick to judge a game with "bugs" that will most likely be easily fixed by updated graphics drivers 
 and/or going to the support site to get some help from the team. Again, I and several people I 
 know of have had no encountered bugs.
  
  Overall, I would recommend this game to anyone who is a fan of the series, or to who are interested 
 in a classic franchise. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cafesito
Rating: 3.3
Date: Oct 30, 2005 1:19 am PT
Review:  I've played Civilization since it first came out. It is my all-time favorite computer game. Civ 
 was great, Civ 2 better, Civ 3 even better, but Civ 4.... well it was disppointing. 
  The game play hasn't chaged that much which is a good thing or a bad thing depending on the player. 
 I can't complain much about it, it's still fun but definately does not deserve an 10 or a 9, or 
 even an 8 rating because it doesn't feel refined.
  The graphics are aweful, messy, and many times it is hard to distinguish what is what, therefore 
 making the game extremely frustrating to play. The graphics in Civ3 are much better, actually the 
 graphics in Civ2 are much better. The 3D look adds nothing to the game because it was so poorly 
 done. In fact, even on my desent computer (2.4 cpu, 6200 geforce 256mem, 1gig ram, and plenty of 
 hardrive space ) the game run like a mule. The units in Civ3 looked great, but in Civ4 they look 
 like they were done by amateurs, either that or they run out of time to polish the whole thing.
 
  The sound is ok, the soundtrack is pretty good, the voice acting is also good.
  Another annoying thing about the game.... it crashes every 10 minutes! It's full of bugs!!!!!!!!!.... I 
 can't honestly recommend this game to anyone becasause it doesn't seem like a finished product. 
 It is obvious that this game was not tested throughly before its release.
  I was looking forward to this game becasue I'm a big fan of Sid Meier and because the last Civ 
 was such a great game, but this time i was overwhelmed with dissappointments. I played it for many 
 hours even though it kept crashing every 10minutes, I even tried to FORCE myself to like the game, 
 but at the end i gave up! I'm uninstalling Civ4 and reinstalling Civ3. I guess i'll be playing 
 Civ3 until they get it right with Civ5.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: CookieJar
Rating: 9.4
Date: Oct 29, 2005 7:19 pm PT
Review:  First off the three things that make this game rock are:
  #3. Narraration by Leonard Nimoy
  #2. Music is great
  #1. Built in clock!
  Anyway Civilization IV is really a great game. I RARELY 
 get games until they hit the $20 range. I think the only game I've spent more then that on is Half-Life 
 2. So the fact that I shelled out $50 for Civ IV and I'm quite happy with that says alot I think.
 
  But on to the breakdown.
  Gameplay:
  This is where the game really shines. Alot of things that demanded attention in Civ III are either 
 gone (ie pollution) or have been streamlined or automated. This gives alot more ability to concentrate 
 on the "bigger picture" rather then getting bogged down in micromanaging. One thing I would agree 
 with about the previous reviews is that the game seems to be faster paced than prior Civs. Personally 
 I think this is a good thing because it means I can get through a game faster and get more sleep 
 :-) . On the other hand it does make it so that the ages really fly by and you don't really get 
 to savor the ages etc. I'd rather go for the quicker style though so it ends up being better at 
 least for me. The combat system seems to me to work great, no spearman beating my tanks or anything. 
 
  Graphics:
  Um, well my system barely breaks the required specs so I can't comment on how good the graphics 
 are. One thing to note is that I can't really play big maps. While it does run, it really bogs 
 down on the bigger maps esp. towards the end of the game. But on the smaller maps it's just fine 
 and even does alright in the end game with lots of units etc. I was rather impressed with this 
 because I was expecting to really get bogged down esp since Civ III did and it wasn't 3D. One thing 
 I thought was cool was that the main view of cities showed the improvements you had contructed. 
 I noticed that the aquaduct would strech to an nearby hill which was a neat touch.
  Sound:
  Leonard Nimoy really adds a great touch to the game and lends it some character. Sounds are fine. 
 You hear various atmosperic sound etc. Nothing special though. The music really impressed me. As 
 you go through time the music changes to reflect the time period which is really cool. The main 
 theme is awesome as well.
  One note, in a prior review someone stated not having a paper manual. I dunno, I thought my 224 
 page manual was pretty nice.
  In summary all I really have to say is this game is just flat out good and I highly recommend it. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Reggy15
Rating: 8.9
Date: Oct 29, 2005 6:17 pm PT
Review:  Civilizations Offers many things some new some old and keeps the greatnes we loved in past Civ 
 games . I must say the Combat system is alot better then in Civ 3 but still needs work . I hate 
 when i have a Knight or somesthing with upgrades and i fight a Non-Upgraded Archer and i just get 
 destroyed, having that said i also love have a tank vs sword man and i dont take any damge because 
 my guy is to uber . Now on to the Graphics , at first i was not a big fan of it . It was almost 
 cartoony but having played a few games i must say i like it more now . 
  
  The Civ Part of the game i must say is 100% + better then the past games i simply love it . They 
 did it in such a way that it almost makes me want to be a politician (Right.......) but it is much 
 better . Religion is a Very new apect and also a very good aspect, i just wish i could ban some 
 from my people and maybe that could cause unrest or something but.... and i wish there was a point 
 to getting different religions ( but you must understand that they could not do that with out getting 
 sued....) I more thing about Religion is i wish i did have to get some religions to get to others 
 but thats not a big issue .
  
  I wish they left in the the little thing that lets you see a your population of each city and maybe 
 let you se your nations pop and the others nations pop to but thats just me . Oh and there was 
 the whole problem with Ati cards that is the reason i cant give the game a 9.5
  
  P. s Download something called PakBuild and use google to learn how to use it with Civ i am sure 
 you canfind help there
  
  + Civics
  + Religion
  + Combat 
  + Grahpics
  + no Annoying Pollution like in civ 3
  + easy to mod
  
  - The ATI card problem 
  - Game 
 is still Glitchy and may crash from time to time so save after importent things
  - Sound Needs work 
  
  Civ fans will for the most part love the game and for the fans that 
 like the game and dont think its great give it time it grows on you
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: flipisgod
Rating: 6.3
Date: Oct 29, 2005 5:00 pm PT
Review:  I am (like most people who would buy this game) an huge Civ3 fan. What other game do you play years 
 after its release? And play alot?
  
  I've played Civ4 for a good 10 hours now, and it just is not holding me.
  What made Civ3 (and 
 earlier versions) great, is simply missing here. This is certainly not a game that I would lose 
 myself in. It just seems harder to work the interface and the graphics actually seem to take away 
 from the game. It is more difficult to move around and moves too fast at all settings. You are 
 not immersed as you were in previous versions.
  
  the most telling factor to me is that I won't be playing this a year from now. Perhaps the expectation 
 was too high, but I was hoping for a better Civ3
  
  Civilzation 4 is not a bad game, but it is also not an improvement over previous versions. By itself 
 it is a decent game, but lets face it - few people are going to play this game that have not been 
 part of the Civ world already.
  
  Simply put, since Civilization 4 is not as good as Civilivation 3, why bother when you can still 
 play Civ 3? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kgtmwilson
Rating: 9.7
Date: Oct 29, 2005 4:48 pm PT
Review:  With the exception of some of the CIV 2 variables. The Civilization franchise has always lived 
 up to the hype. I will continue to spend the large sum of money to purchase the new game simply 
 because I am yet to get bored playing the past editions. I have never played any edition of CIV 
 and ended up with the same result. Most games today spend far to much time and effort on graphics 
 and less on plot and gameplay. The CIV franchise hasn't changed much over the years but improvements 
 with each new addition are recognizable and have usually enhanced gameplay. If you are a past CIV 
 player or simply enjoy employing strategy in your gameplay. This game is for you! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: poopskadoop
Rating: 9.4
Date: Oct 29, 2005 12:23 pm PT
Review:  I'll keep the positives for this review short.
  
  Civilization IV is addictive, well made, fun, and extremely vibrant. It retains the formula of 
 the previous civilization and modifies it for the better. The sounds are excellent and give life 
 to the sprawling 3d envrionment. Birds sing, cows moo, and you can hear the sounds of the waves 
 lapping up on the shore.
  
  I do have a problem with this game, though. A single game of civilization feels rushed in a way. 
 You have a choice between Epic, Standard, and quick gameplay, but all of them feel inadequate in 
 their own way. 
  
  Epic is meant to simulate a longer game, and it does this, but it does it by simply slowing down 
 research and production, not content-wise. A game of Civlization III used to take days to complete. 
 This was possibly one of my favorite features of Civilization III. You could feel and absorb each 
 age as it went by. Civilization IV seems to just speed along. I hardly get the chance to appreciate 
 being in a certain age, upgrading to a certain technology, or using a certain military unit. A 
 simulation of guiding an entire civilization through time should take a while. Otherwise, it will 
 feel incomplete.
  
  Standard gameplay seems more epic than epic to me. In fact, I prefer it because you are given the 
 chance to complete most buildings before the dawn of new ages, giving you more time to appreciate 
 all the idiosyncracies of a particular age.
  
  This really is my only problem. I'm sure others would appreciate that the game is shorter.
  
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Grizpin
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 29, 2005 10:44 am PT
Review:  14 years ago I was introduced to the one more turn addiction of Civilization. The game provided 
 many options and long term gameplay for avid strategy fans such as myself. It didn't matter if 
 it was against the competent AI or in a hot seat marathon with friends. Now the game is reborn 
 for a new generation with streamlined gameplay depth for solo play and, refreshingly, for multiplayer 
 empires across the net.
  
  The gameplay is refined with improvements that bring back the nostalgic one more turn addiction. 
 An endless depth of strategic options and victory conditions make this game infinitely replayable. 
 Options such as crushing your foes with military might, rule them with the awe of your cultural 
 influence or become the most charismatic ruler to claim diplomatic victory. The path to victory 
 is yours to make. 
  
  The graphics aren't going to make your jaw drop but are above expectation for a TBS game. The world 
 comes to life as rivers flow, oceans swell, buildings animate, clouds swirl and national borders 
 shift. The globe view completes the package. It brings closure to the feeling of ruling a global 
 empire as you twirl it around to view your next strategic move.
  
  The audio is uplifting. Musical compositions change through eras and audibly bring each one to 
 life as it plays in the background. World sounds add to the living map as you zoom in to survey 
 an area of interest. Leanord Nimoy adds audible notes to each advancement. Adding to the encyclopedic 
 feel of a nation being born with each new achievement.
  
  With infinite replay on numerous map sizes, enviornments, amount of civiliztions to compete with 
 and custom scenarios (both included and soon to be written by the community) the value of this 
 title is unquestionable. It will be a title that remains on any strategist gamers hard drive for 
 a long time to come. Civilization 4 brings the roots of the series back to a never ending addiction 
 of 'just one more turn'
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: JCServant7
Rating: 6.4
Date: Oct 29, 2005 10:07 am PT
Review:  I love buying lots of games. As such, I can rarely afford to buy games brand new (I usually wait 
 until they drop in price) . However, being a big Civ fan, I saved my money for this one when it 
 came out.
  
  Unfortunately, I wish I held onto my pocketbook!
  
  The Good: As the Gamespot reviewer detailed, there are numerous game design decisions to help speed 
 up some of the gameplay mechanics. Pollution, for example, is a thing of the past. Workers and 
 cities can be automated in any number of ways. Even warriors and scouts can be told to 'explore.' 
 I found many of these additions to be useful, though not overwhelmingly slow. For example, warriors 
 or scouts set to auto-explore often took the longest way to explore new lands. 
  
  Culture is improved somewhat. With the additional information given, you are better able to manage 
 that. The city information on the board also made it easier to determine, at a glance, what was 
 going on with your cities. Finally, some of the interface changes make it easier to do what you 
 need to get done without going into extra screens or menus.
  
  I particularly enjoyed the music. However, for whatever reason, I only heard it during the beginning. 
 Music during the game is missing (or very sporadic) . That's a shame, considering how much energy 
 went into the music department.
  
  The Bad: They state that combat has been 'simplified' in that there is only one strength rating 
 (unlike previous versions that also had a 'defense' rating) . However, they have added a new element 
 with certain unit types being strong or weak against others. In playing the game, however, I did 
 not feel that combat was 'simplified.' Indeed, you will have to put more thought into your fights 
 (Which is good for most people, since this is a strategy game) . This new approach, however, has 
 not eliminated the old complaint that battles seem lopsided. I had a balanced group of 7 armies 
 slaughter by one archer (Low level) who was guarding a town. 
  
  I found in the 'normal' game (Which is stated to be faster than the old Civ games) to be a bit 
 unbalanced for my tastes. It seems that I was researching at a very fast clip. However, since building, 
 and expanding (which has been changed significantly) seems to take so long, I was never really 
 able to build many of the new buildings and units I had researched. In other words, I really felt 
 that I didn't get to experience each 'age.'
  
  The Ugly: There are various game slowing and stopping bugs out there. On my Nvidia 5600, the game 
 runs around 6fps even at the lowest settings. A quick scan of the message boards show that there 
 are certainly problems with playing this game on some models of ATI and Nvidia 5000 series cards. 
 
  
  The interface is designed to look more like a real time strategy game (To make it more intuitive, 
 possibly) . However, it makes the screen look very cluttered. Because Civ has so many building options, 
 which they try to fit on large RTS type buttons, the screen looks quit cluttered and overwhelming 
 at times. 
  
  Your leader does not change with the ages. For that matter, many (if not all) of the advisor pics 
 are also gone. For me, that was part of the charm of the previous civ games. It was nice to see 
 your advisors and the world leaders pics, and to see them wear different clothing and hairstyles 
 as they advanced in ages. How difficult would it have been to keep this aesthetically pleasing 
 element of the game? 
  
  Instead, the game is designed to help you spend much more time look at the map and play the game 
 then look at advisors, charts and menus. While you would think that's a good thing, it's not. The 
 new 3-D lands and cities are improved in that you can easily zoom in and out, as well as rotate 
 things around to get a better look. You can even see your improvements as you zoom into the city. 
 However, in making it 3-D a lot of the detail is lost that you saw in Civ 3. It's difficult to 
 tell the difference between the different types of soldiers, for example. If you are not zoomed 
 in all of the way, it is very difficult to see the detail on your city or your improvements. I 
 found myself mousing over everything to see exactly what type of resource or improvement was on 
 a square of land. 
  
  Overall, you cannot help but feel that this game was rushed out the door. And that's a shame. Considering 
 the time, research and advertisement that went into this game, many people were hoping that this 
 game would be great. So, I write this review in hopes that I may keep at least one person from 
 plunking down $50 like I did. It's not worth it.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: jude74ca
Rating: 3.6
Date: Oct 29, 2005 9:15 am PT
Review:  I have been a huge Civillization fan since the inception of the series, and Civ III is my all time 
 most played game, even more than solitaire. I'm so far disappointed in Civ 4 as it seems poorly 
 thought out, esp in regards to ease of control, and in some details. For example you always have 
 to hit enter to end your turn, even if the "wait at end of turn" is selected as off. I regards 
 to setting up a random single player game the experience is tedious and some what confusing, with 
 just text and no graphics to help determine your options and selection of cizilization, although 
 multiple leaders for some races is a nice touch, they may as well be just another different race 
 rather than the saem one with diferent characteristics as all multiple leaders really means is 
 the you need fewer unit designs and colours. Probably my biggest beef with the game it self is 
 the civilopedia, it is solely graphical in nature, and has no master index, this makes it tough 
 to learn when you don't know what the icons look like yet, and tougher still if you don't know 
 exactly where the icon you need is located (for instance the is no unified wonders section) , and 
 once you do, you won't really need the civilopedia. 
  
  In addition to this making upgrades to land is not as clearly laid out as in past versions, mines 
 and farms are more restricted than in the previous 
  incarnations.
  
  Graphically it's not all bad, but what i really wanted was improved civ III grahics with a greater 
 range of zoom, support for higher and widescreen resolutions, and the ability to window the game. 
 In this case the 3D graphics for the units are flash but not helpfull to game play, distracting, 
 and delaying if anything. And they mean that systems that are more than 3 years old will find it 
 virtually impossible to play. That was one my favourite things about previous version is that they 
 would play on all most any system. regardless of it's age. 
  
  Diplomacy doesn't seem as practical in this version as in previous ones to me, but i need to play 
 more to be certain.
  
  About the only aspect of the game that isn't worse than previous versions is the sound, it is no 
 better and no worse than the older versions, as long as you turn off the in game music.
  
  Further the documentation, being almost totally on the cd in a pdf (adobe) file, is just plain annoying. 
 Doesn't anyone outh there hate adobe acrobat as much as i do. Just give me a dam text file, or 
 better yet, an actual paper manual.
  
  Not to mention the shipping delay's.
  
  Sheeesh, I've loved previous versions of this game and will continue to while away the hours with 
 them, (even Alpha Centauri) but this game will likely pass away like bad gas in a week or so. In 
 someways I wish I could return it. 
  
  Here's hoping for a better Civ 5 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TotalWar212
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 29, 2005 7:13 am PT
Review:  Don't go by my time spent, learning curve and difficulty. One because I just got this game, but 
 also I have mastered the past 3.... and a 1/2 (Conquests) . 
  
  Pros: Great endless game play. This game for me runs very smoothly. Loading times are not a problem. 
 
  
  Cons: This game on slow computers is terrible. It has terrible loading times. You will as the real 
 review says, loose sleep. It is like crack for nerds and bullies alike. 
  Thats pretty much the jist of my review other than buy, buy, buy! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: falma
Rating: 9.1
Date: Oct 29, 2005 6:21 am PT
Review:  I love Civilization. There, I said it. I think it's one of the best games ever and surprisingly 
 it never failed to amaze me with each new sequel. That being said though, Civilization 4 feels 
 like a major technological update to me ... with gameplay updates thrown in as an added bonus. 
 This isn't a bad thing, not at all. It's still as addictive as ever, maybe even more so. But somewhere 
 deep inside of me I kinda hoped the game would introduce something new, something fresh... It's 
 true that the new civics system and the religion system are interesting but they don't affect gameplay 
 in a major way! Still, rounding up, I'm still playing.. and I expect to continue playing till my 
 social life is all but destroyed. Now let me get back to getting rid of that Napoleon! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Visitor_basic
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 1, 2006 10:37 am PT
Review:  Meaning of first line:
  I'll huff and puff, and I'll blow your Civilization Down! Fe-Fi-Fo-Fum!
  Okay with the SDK there 
 are players adding new pStream (ing) FAssertMsg (messages) into the FDataStreamIFaceBase (using 
 Python and XML files) . Thanks Sid and Jeff and Soren and Crew!
  You need religion! I do not. I know religion. Well, on with the Scenarios and Mods. Once again, 
 it's your Civilization too!
  From the opening movie to the menu screen (and I need a better computer because it sputters and 
 stutters) when the Menu screen starts and the opening music starts on the Menu screen, you know 
 that somehow you are attached through humanity to this Planet, this Age, this Adventure, seemingly 
 so calm, serene, and placid! No, this not a computer game anymore, but it will be your story about 
 your Civilization! What will you do with your Civilization? How will it end? What will be your 
 goals? There are six ways to win this interactive movie of your Civilization, so onward through 
 the years you will care for your Civilization because you are, through the essence of your life, 
 attached to this Adventure! No more game-like moving units around, but a game-like essence of building 
 your Civilization through the story you unfold and tell.
  
  However, it will take time, and a while to learn this new story and watch it unfold! This story 
 however will not even qualify anymore as a computer game, it can not with this release of Civilization!
 
  
  It will be a Civilization that bends to your every command, your every nuances, your goals, your 
 dreams.
  
  How you unfold Humanity will be the story you tell!
  
  As the person unfolding this story there will be many tales, many adventures, many hopes and dreams, 
 all seemingly so involved that it will be Ageless and at the same time attached to Heaven and Hell 
 below, the Universe, your smallness in this Universe, and the countless years of Civilization lost 
 in the echos of Time its self!
  
  Now, can I go to the restroom? Thank You! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CaineFH
Rating: 7.1
Date: Oct 29, 2005 1:41 am PT
Review:  Civ 4 is very much the same, as no 3 was very much the same as no 2.
  I not saying there arent any improvements, but it just isnt good enough, considering Sid Meyer, 
 put his name on the line. 
  The game itself is good thats why you keep playing it even though you think, "I done this a 1000 
 times before" (and you properly have) . If you are a CIV fan go ahead and buy it, if not just play 
 no 3. Its just the same stuff in a new bottle, but than again why change anything that works, that 
 must have been what SM have been thinking. 
  Im sure lots and lots of people will buy the game, just bcuz its CIV4. 
  I dont think SM should 
 flash his name so much unless he pretty soon comes up with some new stuff, CIV is getting old. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BrerFox
Rating: 9.3
Date: Oct 29, 2005 1:34 am PT
Review:  I would not exactly categorize myself as a Civilization fan. What seems like ages ago, I got ahold 
 of Civilization II for the Playstation, but did not delve too deeply into its overwhelming gameplay, 
 probably due to the fact I was only a dumb kid at the time, and certainly no economic wizard or 
 budding military strategist. When Civilization III was released, I flagrantly ignored it, not giving 
 it but an eventual two days of playtime.
  
  With the release of Civilization IV, I have committed to diving right into Sid Meier's latest masterpiece, 
 and I am most certainly glad I did.
  
  Civilization IV is phenomenal, nigh perfect. If you are an existing fan of Civilization, and have 
 not already purchased your copy, shame on you! If you are new to the series, this is the most ample 
 opportunity to see what all the buzz is about. Believe the hype, Civilization IV is all that and 
 more.
  
  The gameplay is flawless, well-conceived, remarkably balanced, and perhaps torturously addicting. 
 This is one of those rare titles that haunts you all through the day, beckoning you to crank it 
 up and belt out that one more turn! If you get caught up in the strategy, and dig yourself into 
 a tasty scenario (which happens countless times during each game) , you will indeed find it hard 
 to avoid the urge to play it out right then and there. I must warn you, in seriousness, this is 
 a game you will lose sleep over.
  
  Visually, Civilization IV flounders a smidgen, but not to any horrible extent. The three-dimensional 
 world is a good call for the series, and the world truly is alive with animation, color, variety, 
 and overall spectacle. However, there is something to be said for the general quality of the graphics 
 being a little primitive for what was possible. The flipside to this complaint is the fact the 
 developers have stated many times that they were designing this as a game that all gamers with 
 all sorts of hardware could enjoy, so that makes it a little hard to call them out on. Still, one 
 cannot help but entertain the thought of Civ IV boasting, say, Age of Empires III's engine.
  
  On the other hand, the sound really shines. The musical scores are phenomenally varied, well 
 composed, and appropriate for the situation. I really have not heard an overall soundtrack in terms 
 of music as well as Civ IV has its composed. The sound effects, though, could definitely be better. 
 They are average, nothing you have not heard before, but vivid enough to get the action across. 
 A saving grace of Civ IV's audio is the perfect addition of Leonard Nimoy's voiceover work. That 
 is right, now every time you research a new technology, Spock will read you a select parable, quote, 
 or proverb relating to that technology. Without kidding, the voiceovers, and the accompanying messages 
 are very cool!
  
  Longevity and depth are two things Civilization has never had a problem with, and even if there 
 were any shadows of doubt in its predecessors, Civilization IV really turns it up a notch and blows 
 any thoughts of potential boredom out of the water. With the new methods of victory, eighteen civilizations, 
 countless technologies, units, buildings, and strategies, you could literally be playing this game 
 for years and still stumble upon something new and exciting. I mentioned 'scenarios' before, and 
 this is true here more than ever. Civilization IV's games inevitably lead you through some truly 
 gripping situations that will test your ability and merit as a leader, and make you feel like you 
 are really interacting with actual peers.
  
  I have not even considered the multiplayer yet, but since this entry has, in fact, been specially 
 engineered for the feature, it is doubtlessly as fantastic as the rest of the game. With all of 
 these facets to bear, there is really no way you are going to be disappointed with Civ IV's package.
 
  
  As a final note, there is one thing that gets me a bit miffed as a history enthusiast: The lack 
 of history in the Civilopedia. Granted, it is there in full for the religions and buildings, but 
 it is nowhere to be seen for the units or technologies! This is only a personal qualm, because 
 I really appreciated the big spiels in the previous titles, and this does take one notch off my 
 tilt.
  
  Fans of turn-based strategy, history buffs, Risk nuts, general gamers... everyone. If you are willing 
 to give Sid Meier's Civilization IV a try, I can almost guarantee you will be impressed.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: dryden555
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 28, 2005 9:25 pm PT
Review:  Several reader reviews complain about the game being "slow." It is a Turn-based game. Sigh. Go 
 back to RTS games please.
  
  The wealth of options in Civ 4 are impressive and it is the first Civ game to genuinely improve 
 Civ's gameplay. As ususal you can alter the games and the game rules to suit your liking. Victory 
 conditions can be altered. But this time you also have auto-builders who really do auto-build properly. 
 I like the trade interface, which can also be mostly automated. Ultimatey Civ is about preparing 
 for war, and here Civ 4 shines. The new troop types add miles of depth to the gameplay. 
  
  I suspect the interface is very overwhelming to those with short attention spans. The learning 
 curve is pretty immense. Its their loss though! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ghoraxx
Rating: 5
Date: Oct 28, 2005 7:40 pm PT
Review:  Well, I went out and bought Civ 4 today and I was really hoping that it would be as fun as all 
 of the other Civs have been. I think that all of the positive reviews have neglected to mention 
 a few issues that I found have really hurt my enjoyment of the game.
  
  I'm running the game on a 2.8Ghz P4 with a Radeon 9200 and 1gig of RAM. Not top of the line, but 
 well above the recommended system requirements.
  
  1) The first thing is that the whole game just feels SLOW. Button clicks are unresponsive, scrolling 
 the map is slow, waiting for turns seems to take longer than it should, unit combat drags on... 
 Just that half-second wait after you click on a unit but before a menu pops up is really grating.
 
  
  2) Unit, city, and world graphics are kind of fuzzy and blurry. It's very difficult to tell similar 
 units apart at a glance on the world map (say, macemen from swordsmen) , and it's completely impossible 
 to tell some of the resources apart. Also, there doesn't seem to be any comfortable middle ground 
 for the zoom. If you stay zoomed into a level where you can make anything out you can only see 
 one or two of your cities, which means you can't see your borders. If you try to zoom out for a 
 wider view all of the world detail just disappears and you can't see ANY of your cities. It would 
 be very nice to be able to see a more useful amount of land in order to feel that you really have 
 a handle on your territory.
  
  3) The game doesn't remember previous game settings. It's a small issue, but I don't think it's 
 too much to ask that the game remember what I named my nation last game, or that I like to have 
 tile information and the grid on every time that I play.
  
  4) The music doesn't play in the game. I don't know if this is a problem that everyone has, or 
 if it's a conscious design decision, but there's absolutely zero in-game music, and if you run 
 an exterior music program (like Windows Media Player) it just slows the game down even more.
  
  5) The advisor menus are useless. You can't access your cities from the Domestic Advisor, you 
 can't upgrade your units or get any idea of an opponent's strength from the Military Advisor, etc... 
 
  
  6) The trade interface is incredibly annoying. I honestly think I must be missing something, but 
 it seems that you can only trade blind. In Civ 3, for instance, you had an advisor that would tell 
 you if the opponent would agree to a trade before you offered it. This would let the player make 
 somewhat intelligent trades. In Civ 4 you never get an idea of what your trade goods are actually 
 worth to an opponent. So you invariably end up giving away your tradeable resources/techs for less 
 than they're worth.
  
  I think this game has enormous potential, but it just doesn't feel quite finished. If the whole 
 experience was sharpened up just a little bit then I could completely agree with all of the incredibly 
 high reviews. But it's just not there yet. I'd recommend waiting until the patch comes out to see 
 if any of these issues get cleared up. That or stick to Civ 3. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ScottAdams
Rating: 9.2
Date: Oct 28, 2005 6:03 pm PT
Review:  What fun! Strange to be back in a strictly turn-based world for the first time in a while, but 
 a real delight. I have been slaughtered now several times, but that is because of my evil empirical 
 ways. Will I ever learn?
  
  Sid Meier is clearly the best thing to ever happen to gaming. Between this an Pirates! he would 
 have won an Oscar if they gave them out for games.
  
  I have spent much of my recent time in shooters, so this was a real change, but a refreshing leap 
 back into a familiar buut new world... to crush under the boot of my evil regime.
  
  It apparently has multiplayer as well, but I hate MP games, so I can't tell you about it. I deal 
 with people in every aspect ofmy life, I like my gaming to myself.
  
  Also. console people can just suck it up! LOL
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: noobpolean
Rating: 9.3
Date: Oct 28, 2005 5:23 pm PT
Review:  At first, I was a little nonplussed by the differrences from CivIII. But after a few hours, it 
 became clear that it had that same addictive "one more turn" quality of its predecessors. I will 
 lightly touch on the differences... Firstly, the diplomacy aspect is much more interesting and 
 varied than the C3. Now there is no mystery why other nations love or hate you. Just mouse over 
 their name or picture and it will tell you how and why you're getting along.
  The adivisors are not quite as good, IMHO. They aren't really advisors anymore so much as just 
 info screens. No longer will you have your military advisor giving comparisons to other forces. 
 You have to figure that out yourself.
  Unit stats are another change made to supposedly simplify combat. No more offense/defense. Everything 
 has just one number representing their strength now, but they have certain bonuses against enemy 
 units, and can be upgraded as they are "leveled up". Also, you can train a unit to administer first 
 aid, speeding up healing times.
  The game looks great, even with all the graphic settings turned all the way down... which I had 
 to do with my ancient 1 1/2 year old computer. If, like me, you determined your computer is ready 
 for C4 based on the requirement wizard on some site or other, be prepared to wait for torturous 
 loading times and turn resolutions later in the game. Hopefully a new GFX card will remedy the 
 situation. Also, the sound is great, but I personally could have done without Leonard Nimoys voiceovers 
 every time a new tech was researched. Boooorrrring. 
  Oh... I got the special edition, which included a manual with the pages out of order and some other 
 trivial additions.
  
  All in all, it is a great game once you get used to the differences. You might want to upgrade 
 the old PC soon though. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: solitaire77
Rating: 5.8
Date: Oct 28, 2005 4:38 pm PT
Review:  It is sad to see. 
  
  Don't get me wrong, the non-unit graphics are fantastic, and the sound is unmatched. Surely some 
 things were fixed, but while trying the game on easy a few archers (earliest units) killed four 
 of my tanks. It'll take a long time for old civ fans to learn the new game, and even longer for 
 totally new entrants. 
  
  The unit graphics look like they are from one of those bargain bin games that we've all passed 
 over. They are downright awful. 
  
  Gameplay is the real problem. Button clicks feel clunky. Unit and combat animations are uneeded, 
 and really look poor. The health bar has been eliminated, so you have to look at the poor units 
 to get the information. The computer now "advises" on so many issues, that you feel more like a 
 viewer than a player on many issues. 
  
  There are some brilliant concepts (such as missionaries) , but this one isn't ready, and the gameplay 
 is fair at best. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kalv
Rating: 8.8
Date: Oct 28, 2005 3:45 pm PT
Review:  Well civilization 4, its finally here. The menu is stunning, best menu screen i have ever seen. 
 Thats the first thing i noticed. The tutorial is optional and it gives a really good and LENGTHY 
 tutorial, but still good. Sound is amazingly good, graphics arn't as good as other games, but i 
 ain't complaining. Just thinking about it sounds so much fun to play, u build a civilization from 
 a couple of tiny settlers to a big metropolitan its such a great feeling.
  
  buy
  buy
  buy
  buy
  buy
  buy
  buy
  buy buy buy buy buy 
::::::

::::::
UserName: combathanger
Rating: 4.8
Date: Oct 28, 2005 3:27 pm PT
Review:  After 8+ hours of Civ 4 I have had to hard reboot my system 15 times. Thats more in one day than 
 in the preceeding 6 months. There are multiple issues with a wide variety of ATI and NvIDIA graphics 
 cards, cards that range from older cards all the way through the newest cards selling for $400+ 
 Many people are getting lockups and crashes to desktop. I am fortunate that I can play for 30 minutes 
 usually... although the time seems pretty randome. 
  
  If it were just me I could try and accept that there may be something about my system that has 
 an issue. But there are dozzens of threads on the fax sites that list my exact issue.
  
  The game is, from what I can play, the best civ ever..... unfortunatly its the worst Civ ever since 
 no other game with Sid Myers name has ever been shoved out the door in such an unfinished state.
 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: shawsvale
Rating: 9.4
Date: Oct 28, 2005 2:16 pm PT
Review:  This is the first game I have played where they actually take the problems with the previous game 
 and make them better. The attention to detail is very impressive.
  
  The interface has been created to show you all the things you need to know on the screen and displays 
 them in an organized fashion. You can easily look around and see what all your cities are making 
 and what condition they are in.
  
  The battles are much more realistic. The interaction of the fighters are more lively and make more 
 sense.
  
  The Technology tree is more creative. You can research many different ways the you ever could before. 
 I really like how Lenard Nimoy recites a quote for every technology you discover.
  
  The governments make much more sense. You can change many aspects to create a government to suit 
 your type of gameplay.
  
  I really enjoy the wonders. Its nice to see a little bit of history when you create a wonder and 
 to see a video of how the wonder was created.
  
  This has been one of the best improvements to a game I have ever played. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wayomic1
Rating: 9.3
Date: Oct 28, 2005 10:22 am PT
Review:  Ok seeing as this was where I started with my experiance lets start with the CONS:
  -Preordered game arrives late due to shipping error.
  -Tech-Tree in French.... my knowledge of 
 this languase ends at wee wee.
  -Game Disks Incorrectly Labeled.
  -And of course the dreaded ATI graphics card disaster (to which there is now a fix (www. civfanatics. com)
 
  
  PRO:
  ALL THE GREATNESS YOUD EXPECT FROM A CIV GAME AND MORE. The bottom line for me is don't let the 
 bad start deter you or you will really be missing out. Beautifully refined gameplay, all the great 
 stuff from Civilizations prior and less of the annoying. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jschenk
Rating: 3.5
Date: Oct 28, 2005 9:45 am PT
Review:  This game would be a great sequel if the maps weren't so small. Even the Huge maps only support 
 about 20 cities total! The smaller maps support little more than the starting capitals. 
  Also, the 3d graphics are great but make it even harder to find where to put a new city by making 
 the squares difficult to see. You can't really see anything useful at the maximum zoom out or zoom 
 in. The auto advice on where to put the cities are awful, and the cultural border lines are too 
 hard to see. They need to add a highlight of fat cross. 
  Unless I'm missing something, I think I'm going to have to reinstall civ III soon. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RLJSlick
Rating: 9.6
Date: Oct 28, 2005 7:07 am PT
Review:  There have been four 4 sim/strategy games that Ive followed since their conception, Sim City, 
 Age of Empire, Railroad Tycoon and Civilization. Sim City have become an awesome simulation in 
 designing and mayoring a city, Age of Empire 3, though good, is somewhat a disappointment to 
 me so far, but Im still working on it, Railroad Tycoon hasnt done anything new lately, but the 
 last version was without a doubt my favorite version, and now Civilization 4.
  I have to admit, I just had a hard time really enjoying Civ 3 for the long haul, I not sure why, 
 but I just didnt like it as much as I did the first 2. With that said, I was very leery about 
 Civilization 4, in fact I had no desirer at all in buying the game. After I read the review on 
 Gamespot. com I decided that I had to give this old classic one more shoot, and boy am I happy I 
 did. This game improved on every single aspect of the game, from graphics, to sound, to even some 
 of the oddities that made me give Civ 3 the cold shoulder.
  Not going to give you a lot of the details of the game, you can get that from the very detail review 
 that Andrew Park gives. What I want to do here is to endorse what I think maybe is the turn base 
 strategy game of the year. I mean that! You can tell the guys a Firaxis put in a lot of extra loving 
 to this game. There is so much little details, like the running water in the rivers on in the maps. 
 No doubt, they worked extra hard on the details. With that said, I have to say this is the first 
 turn base game that taxed my computer system. If you dont have a decent 2 GHz or higher computer, 
 with a good video card, you may want to give Mr. Dell or Mr. Gateway a call and acquire about a 
 new system, because after a few years, you will want to have a powerful system to play this one.
 
  This game dont go without its problems though, Firaxis most differently rushed this one out 
 the door. There are many little things that show that. For instants, after I install the game, 
 the icon on my desktop never did change to a Civ 4 icon, it just stayed the generic Windows XP 
 icon. Another thing, The PLAY CD apparently isnt the play CD, because you have to insert CD 
 One, not the PLAY CD to play the game. One last thing, the game seem to have odd pauses in the 
 game, for no reason at all. I thought it was auto-saving at the time, but I dont think these pauses 
 are auto-saves, because it doesnt say its auto-saving. The game paused so long one time, I did 
 a hard restart just to get the game going again. Now understand this could be just my system, but 
 I think this is one of those 1.01 patches fixes that we gamers always seem to get a few days 
 after release. 
  Those are all small things to be sure, this is an awesome game, and I recommend anyone that love 
 the Civilization series to run out and buy this game right now!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: lilan
Rating: 9.3
Date: Oct 28, 2005 5:01 am PT
Review:  Faster-Paced Fun - Gameplay has been streamlined for a tighter, faster, and more compelling experience. Greater 
 Accessibility and Ease of Play - An easy-to-use interface will be immediately familiar to RTS and 
 action game players, and newcomers to the series will be able to jump in and play. Tech Tree - 
 Flexible Tech tree allows players more strategic choices for developing their civilizations along 
 unique paths. More Civs, Units, and Improvements to enhance and grow your empire. Multiplayer -LAN, 
 Internet, PBEM, and Persistent Turn-Based Server (PTBS) offer players all-new strategies and ways 
 to play when competing or cooperating with live opponents. Team Play - Whether playing multiplayer 
 or single player, team play offers a new way of setting locked alliances that result in shared 
 wonder effects, visibility, unit trading, and shared territory that delivers a plethora of new 
 strategic and tactical options. Civ IV comes to life! - Beautiful 3D world with dozens of fully 
 animated units (including culturally unique units) , and totally customizable armies. Cities and 
 wonders will appear on the map. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gballardo
Rating: 9.7
Date: Oct 27, 2005 10:39 pm PT
Review:  Keeps the spirit of the CIV game alive and going for another generation of players... To all the 
 old school fans of Sid Meirs Civ Classics, this one is no dissapointment... 2K has really built 
 on cleaning up the misshaves of Activision from the past ("Civ: Call to Power") ... To the new fan's, 
 this is a game of skill and thought... mmm... sounds like chess!!! yes very much like a chess turned 
 risk/ but on steroids.... in short, buy the game! its worth every penny This game has passed the 
 test of time, to not buy it would be considered a dishonor to the code of any old school gamer! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zalle69
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 13, 2006 9:54 am PT
Review:  1st Review RATED: 2.3 New Review:
  PRO: Excellent 3Dgraphic gives a whole new dimension to the game view. Game menus and interface 
 are very good and easy to use especially if you played CIV 1-3. The helpful advice throughout game 
 in different forms is good i. e. where to send workers. Individual units are excellently done. The 
 different types of government and civics menus and selections are outstanding and add a verity 
 to the game. The diplomat screen and actions are a vast improvement over previous games. 
  
  CON: Game requires a powerful PC to play must have 1.0 GB RAM and over 2.0 GHz speed and current 
 3D video card. Before I updated my PCs RAM the game would slow down at the middle going into the 
 end with large map and above. The SPY unit really isnt good for anything other then exploring. 
 Music volume is control by zoom the closer you zoom no music. Still no in-game delete function. 
 The Play now selection should have a way to set the game win conditions instead of always having 
 to use custom.
  
  It you have a powerful enough PC I would recommend the game for all CIV and strategy fans.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: tallguy07
Rating: 6.8
Date: Oct 27, 2005 5:57 pm PT
Review:  But, unfortunately, it was rushed to the stores and in just one day of playing has crashed on me 
 5 times. Most of the new additions are amazing -- the civics, religions, great people... but to 
 alienate a huge chunk of ATI users right off the bat is pretty bad. The 3-D-ish thing is quite 
 refreshing and the combat animations are well done, but the system resources used and the graphical 
 quality seen is a bit of a disappointment. I was waiting for this one... and I would have easily 
 waited a bit longer for a more polished product. Let's get back to polishing games off before releasing 
 them like they did a LONG time ago. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cyress8
Rating: 9.8
Date: Oct 27, 2005 1:47 pm PT
Review:  When i finished installing and booted it for the first time, BAM, the intro music hit me hard, 
 i mean hard. It gave me goosebumps, which i havent had for any game for the past few years, and 
 put straight in my mind this was going to be a great game. I even rank this game up with TES: Oblivion 
 now, which is another game that will be great. 
  
  After the intro, i was amazed at the detail of the starting screens for the maps, gave a great 
 sense of what was happening when building your map, afterwards, choosing your leader, wow very 
 nice, the character designs felt right for some reason. After that the planet, looks good, was 
 playing around for a while and zoomed all the way out for no reason, wow, a 3d world. I was wondering 
 damn why they didnt put tthis in civ 3, it is a very nice addition. 
  
  Gameplay wise i love the new improvements the give you more to work on and they even become more 
 efficient along with your city on its own, well not all of them but the new ones seem too and that 
 is very cool. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: comp_atkins
Rating: 9.2
Date: Oct 27, 2005 11:36 am PT
Review:  
  been a civ player since 1992 so i had to go pick up this baby. just spend 5 and a half hours playin 
 last night and its clear i need a new gfx card. i've been putting it off and putting it off as 
 long as i can but when i got a message saying my machine does not meet the min. system requirements 
 to play, i knew i was in trouble. the game looked fabulous even with all the graphical detail set 
 to min and all the extras turned off. unfortunatly, the game would crash when trying to play animations 
 for building wonders and such so i had to save and reload many, many times... a problem i beileve 
 will be remedied when i upgrade the gfx card ( i hope ) .. i've only played though half a a game 
 so far and the good ol' "just one more turn" feeling is alive and well. the new worker automation 
 option is a great help when your empire begins to expand. i'm still getting used to the different 
 govt, labor, economic etc. options civ4 throws at you but i like where they're going with it... 
 once i get the stability issues resolved, this will be my new pc pastime.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: cheatmaster666
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 27, 2005 11:25 am PT
Review:  This game rules in every way. Only problem is you won't be sleeping anytime soon.
  
  Sucks that the tech tree is in French; hope Firaxis sends out new ones asap! Love the poster though. 
 Really great beyond that QA mistake.
  
  Read that people are having problems with their ATI cards. My 9800 works like a dream; too bad 
 people who don't know how to install drivers and use computers have figured out how to write reviews. 
 
  
  I started modding right away. The new world builder is fantastic! Going to learn xml and python 
 just to make a better mod. Really knocked this one out of the park Firaxis!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wytefang
Rating: 9.8
Date: Oct 27, 2005 10:48 am PT
Review:  An amazing example of the kind of quality gameplay that consoles can only dream of presenting. 
 Sid Meier and Firaxis games have created nearly a perfect game here. Wonderful in every aspect 
 from sound to graphics to gampelay, it's hard to find anything wrong with this game at all. Perhaps 
 a little more variety in Leonard Nimoy's lines would be welcome but that's a small quibble at best. 
 I have five different friends with varying levels of computer hardware and videocards and they've 
 all had no problems with installation or slowdown of any kind. We're also keen to try out the new 
 multiplayer, which has been developed from the ground up from the beginning of the game's development. 
 Playing Civ in 3D is really an amazing treat and it makes for a more immersive (if that's even 
 possible) experience compared to the earlier 2D versions of Civilization. If you enjoy ANY kind 
 of strategy in your games, this is a must-purchase and an instant-classic! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Khraiven
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 27, 2005 8:33 am PT
Review:  Where to even start, every aspect of this game has received an incredible amount of attention to 
 detail. 
  
  Interface - Civ series has always had a fairly easy to navigate interface, but they've really out 
 done themselves this time.. Possibly the most intuitive interface I've ever used, of any game. 
 
  
  Strategy - Like many of you, I had read all the previews before the game was out, and had a good 
 idea of what to expect. Nothing can prepare you for the new level of strategy that is civ4. There 
 are several aspects of the game that have greatly enhanced the dynamics of strategy, but the training/specializing 
 of your units alone has truely turned combat into a chess-like strategy. Very impressive, this 
 will surely take some time to master and keep all sides on their toes when it comes to building 
 their military.
  
  Graphics - I dont generally care to comment on graphics as it has little impact on the enjoyment 
 I can get out of a game. But I have to say, very impressive. And not just on quality, but they 
 really bring CIVILIZATION to life in civ4, everything is just so fluid. Now you can truely see 
 how vast and epic your empire truely is.
  
  Network - Haven't had a lot of time yet to delve much into multiplayer, but know that regardless 
 of single player or multiplayer, it is the SAME GAME. As it should be, everything just works. Also, 
 incredibly easy to set a game up.
  
  Bottom line, a must buy for anyone claiming to be a strategy gamer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jshipley01eb
Rating: 9.6
Date: Oct 27, 2005 7:53 am PT
Review:  What more can one really say about Civilization that hasnt been said already in the Gamespot review? 
 It really is that good of a game and if you are a Civ fan, frankly you should already own this 
 game by now. However, if youre new to the series then Id like to say welcome! Enjoy your stay! 
 Youre going to be here for a very long time :) !
  
  Ive been a Civ fan since the early 90s when I discovered Civ on my universitys share drive. 
 All of my buddies were addicted to it. We preferred Civ to actually doing any real work which was 
 bad, in hindsight, because once you start you really have trouble stopping. Im surprised that 
 Pringles and Civilization arent packaged together.
  
  Why is this game so addicting? I think its because theyve found a way to make micromanaging fun! 
 You really do get excited when you build your first Wonder or conquer your first city. And unlike 
 previous installments of the series it is largely fulfilling to roll your tank over a puny spearman 
 group and know they dont have a shot in hell of taking you down! Go armor! Whoha!
  
  For you newbies out there, let me tell you a little about Civ IV. Basically you are given some 
 settlers and told to start a civilization from scratch. You can be one of 18 different nationalities 
 like the Americans, the French, the Russians, the Inca, etc Once you found your first city youll 
 be in charge of helping it grow. Youll build workers to harvest the resources of the surrounding 
 land, build buildings like Barracks to train troops, Granaries to store food, and Temples to worship. 
 Youll need to defend your new city too, so there are many different units to build like Warriors, 
 Archers, Spearmen, and Chariots! Theres a lot to do!
  
  If you are new to this series, be sure to play the tutorial. To be honest, I played it myself and 
 like Ive said, Im an old hand at Civ. There are just so many new things (or different things) 
 that I figured the tutorial was the place to learn about them. I was right. Not only that, the 
 tutorial is led by Sid Meyer himself, the creator of the series.
  
  Graphically, this is a HUGE leap forward for the series. The two dimensional world of the past 
 is gone. Enter 3D! The world feels much more realistic now with workers building improvements right 
 on the land. The graphics have moved away from the icon based system and adopted one with much 
 more realism. I love the improvements!
  
  The sounds are excellent too! I really love the soundtrack for the game and Im glad I picked up 
 the special edition version of the game because it comes with the soundtrack as an extra! Units 
 make the noises they should, combat sounds like combat, etc If theres a fault to this game it 
 is not found in this department.
  
  I wish I could talk more about the multiplayer features but unfortunately thats not really for 
 me as I like to play Civ alone. Most of the diplomacy I perform is on the computer controlled leaders. 
 Still, Ive only heard good things about the multiplayer system, as apparently they designed the 
 game that way first and then built the single player experience around that. Look to Gamespot or 
 another reviewer for more information there.
  
  All in all, I think Civilization IV is not a game that should be missed by any fan of the previous 
 incarnations. If youre a strategy fan, this may also be a good fit for you. As always, make sure 
 you have plenty of food and water close at hand because once you start playing this great game, 
 youre likely not going to stop any time soon! Anyway, I have to go I need to play just one more 
 turn before I have to go to work. One more turn!
  
  Jack
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: owyn999
Rating: 8.9
Date: Oct 27, 2005 7:43 am PT
Review:  Those are about the only words that need to be said about this game.
  
  The Graphics are superb, I was pleasantly surprised when I started going through the game I'm about 
 50 turns in and the game just keeps surprising me.
  
  The Gameplay, Well where do I start. Streamlined is one way to put it, I'm playing an Epic Game 
 Right now and well... the game is just moving right along. I can see on the map what my cities 
 contain and on top of that there aren't so many roads.
  
  Interface, Oh what an improvement. Ctrl Click on another Civs name and there he is all waiting 
 for a trade proposal. Open Borders Policies, mmm... that is such a needed addition.
  
  Music. Oh Music.... Beautiful if you Preordered the game and got the Soundtrack then you know what 
 I'm talking about.
  
  Oh and then there's the Tech sounds. You get a new Tech and guess who comes to tell you about it. 
 Leonard NIMOY... alright now that I'm sufficiently Geeked everyone else should buy this game and 
 if you want to play an E-mail game well look for me... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: puneet_kathpal
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 27, 2005 5:18 am PT
Review:  Finally civ IV is here a game we all have been waiting for a long time
  
  You will love the game from its first look. The main menu looks great and the sound will rock your 
 heart for years.
  
  It's a waking pill that will not let you sleep for months to come.
  
  The new 3d graphics look great and diplomacy has been improved a lot.
  
  This game is must 
 for strategy lovers. Go get the game of your dreams.
  
  The best strategy game ever created.
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ElliotNG41
Rating: 9.8
Date: Oct 27, 2005 1:04 am PT
Review:  I have been playing Civilization-style games since I first played Civilization II. I have take 
 my run through Civ II, Call to Power I and II, Alpha Centauri, Civilization III, and all the other 
 similar games that didn't quite make it. If you are reading this review, it's not because you wonder 
 what the appeal is, but because you wonder if it would still hold your interest. I can say that 
 without a doubt it would, and then a whole lot more. Civilization IV likely resets the bar for 
 turn-based strategy games by refining all the components that made all of Sid Meier's previous 
 games so good.
  
  I pre-ordered this game about a month ago, when I found out that the pre-order was specialized 
 and at no greater cost. Before I picked it up, I happened to read around to hear about several 
 problems concerning the release. I understand some packages included a French tech tree, which 
 Firaxis has already offered to ship a new one to anyone affected, as well as gives a downloadable 
 PDF of the English version on their website. The CDs are mislabelled, in that the "Play" disc is 
 just an installation disc, and the "Install" disc is what is used to load the game. This is the 
 only problem I have found with the otherwise superb packaging, an indication of just how much detail 
 they put into this game.
  
  A serious problem that has affected a number of people is a failure to initalize rendering using 
 ATI Radeon video cards. I believe this is more a problem with their drivers than the game itself, 
 because I am using a Radeon 9000 Mobility myself, which was said to have problems. My suggestion 
 would be to try some new drivers, or be patient until Firaxis finds a better solution. I am using 
 specialized video drivers for my laptop (Alienware) , so I'm afraid I can't help out much in that 
 department, but the release is about a year old. If you worry about your card not working, don't 
 let it stop you from buying this game.
  
  With that out of the way, I will get into the gameplay. The game is set up almost exactly like 
 previous versions, in that you dictate the rules you wish to play under, the type of map, the climate, 
 your civilization and leadership, the number of rivals, etc. For those who desire more customizability, 
 Firaxis added full support for XML scripting and Python, and plan on releasing their own development 
 tools in a few months. Once you start the game, you will immediately know what is going on, and 
 if you are new to the series, the Tutorial is very useful (and includes a cartoon model of Meier 
 too) . The game has been refined to be more accessible, such that you can control almost everything 
 from the mouse, if desired, or learn the ridiculous number of keys that could save you a lot of 
 time. There isn't even a need to look up the quick keys, either, since all tooltips give you instructions 
 for the keys that enable different functions. The game was designed to feel faster and more engaging, 
 while giving you the option to slow it down when you start up a game. The tweaks done to the gameplay 
 accomplish this very well, by allowing you to build up culture and population faster, research 
 easier, and even giving a higher degree of customization to the units you build in the form of 
 promotion points. The promotion points are an excellent idea, since they reward you for playing 
 with your units intelligently, and caring for them just a little bit. Every battle they win gives 
 you more experience that can be used to buy new upgrades. This gives them a little bit of personality, 
 getting you even more involved in the game. For example, I had upgraded one of my two existing 
 Knights three times by the time I chose to take a risk with him. With his strength at half, and 
 his odds still in my favor, I figured it was a sure thing that he could waste the last Archer preventing 
 me from taking Gandhi's capital. Well, I was wrong, and while it didn't hurt me in the long run 
 (this time) , I still felt a little stupid for wasting a precious unit like that.
  
  Simply put, the new gameplay options make this game more addictive than it already was in the previous 
 versions. Religion, while not a huge role, helps you to increase your culture and happiness. The 
 new civics menu, which replaces government choices, is one of several direct spin-offs from Alpha 
 Centauri, and integrates into the game perfectly. Great People, special units that can rush production, 
 give you a free tech, or make a unique wonder, also help to speed up the previously slow interludes 
 between war and expansion. Personally, I never had a problem with spending tens of hours in a single 
 game (unless I lost, of course) , but for those who do not have such patience, the new gameplay 
 in CivIV allows you to feel just as powerful in a fraction of the time.
  
  Most people who read this, if they even get down this far, will wonder about the graphics and sound, 
 which I marked both as 9s. I did this mostly out of honestly. The graphics in this version are 
 quite amazing, with tiny details like aqueducts always spanning over to a mountain, or cloud layers 
 moving over the globe. Sure, maybe the graphics could have been better, but then I wouldn't have 
 been able to run it with any reasonable frame rate. Suffice it to say that you will never wish 
 it had better graphics. Likewise with the sound, the music is very good, and the in-game sounds 
 are authentic. I had some sound that cut in and out in the wonder videos, but I blame my computer, 
 not the game, for that. Overall, if the sound and graphics were any better, they would take away 
 from the gameplay itself, which is really the only reason anyone buys this to begin with.
  
  The multiplayer component of CivIV, which was a major factor in the programming this time, 
 has not been evaluated by me so far. LAN games, direct IP, internet via Gamespy, and e-mail hotseat 
 are available. If the gameplay online is similar to against the AI, and Firaxis learned from the 
 successful Conquests expansion for Civilization III, I have no doubt that multiplayer is as or 
 more adddictive than single player.
  
  In conclusion, if you ever even remotely enjoyed the previous Civilization games, or have nothing 
 to do and want to try Civilization IV, this is a must buy. If you have no idea what you are getting 
 into, buy it anyway, and you won't regret the purchase. This game is so addictive that they should 
 be forced to put a Surgeon General's warning on the back of it, something mentioning the debilitating 
 effects of sleep loss and tunnel vision on your academics, career, or family life. Seriously, though, 
 I started up a game at the same time as I turned on the World Series for game 4. With the computer 
 at my desk, and the TV in the other direction, I don't remember anything until the bottom of the 
 9th, when I saw the last two outs. It is games like this that make me wish we had 32-hour days, 
 so that I could still sleep every once in a while.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: carlandcarl
Rating: 9.6
Date: Oct 27, 2005 12:24 am PT
Review:  The graphics are great in this game and they still have the over sized units in the buildings which 
 I find very fun to play with.
  The time zones of which you can play in are even more further apart nopw you could either be building 
 a pyramid or a futuristic space rocket.
  
  This game has entered a new generation of gaming. Because it has magnificent graphics and the gameplay 
 is also well done. Ofcourse you'll be stuck playiung this along time because it isnt as easy as 
 in AGe of empires to go to the next age, which I love!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: EihBeir
Rating: 9.8
Date: Oct 26, 2005 8:48 pm PT
Review:  I'd love to be able to tell you about the game itself, but I'm having a hard enough time pulling 
 myself away from the main menu. Between the music and the visuals, I may never play Civilization 
 4, ever.
  
  I have managed to get through the tutorial so far. Having spent countless hours playing Civ 3, 
 there was only a few areas where I needed instruction. As best as I can tell from just the tutorial, 
 every other review you've read is correct. Firaxis has managed to trim away some of the elements 
 that made the previous games feel longer than they needed to. In doing so, you get more actual 
 gameplay when you play just one more turn, and not half a turn of gameplay, half a turn of managing 
 the little things.
  
  Seriously though, all that pales in comparison to the main menu. 
  
  Honestly, spend the $50 for the main menu. If you like the game too, consider that a bonus. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vedek
Rating: 5.8
Date: Oct 26, 2005 8:02 pm PT
Review:  I dunno the jury is still out on Civ 4. I expected to be immediately impressed, taken away as in 
 previous versions, but I didn't get the reaction I thought I would get. Initially, I am a little 
 disappointed in this version. I am hoping some bugs will be fixed in the patch. I don't like it 
 that we cannot upgrade our military units under Military Advisor. It shows where they are, but 
 you cannot upgrade at once like in previous versions. Also, its very hard for me to see the borders 
 of my country and others. Also, its hard to tell where its OK to place settlers when there are 
 other nations. Those are just initial observations. It really sucks that I have to make this initial 
 observation, but its just facts. Civilization has always been a great franchise, so I will give 
 it the benefit of the doubt and keep playing to see if I like this version. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: anon7979
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 26, 2005 7:48 pm PT
Review:  I am not what you'd call a hard-core Civ player by any stretch of the imagination. I've played 
 Civ III enough to understand how it works, and to fully enjoy the game, but I've never had the 
 time to invest in really mastering the finer details of the game.
  
  Civ IV is quite simply the _perfect_ blend of deep strategy and approachable game mechanics. If 
 you've played any Civ game before, you'll be able to jump in and get started very quickly here. 
 The tutorial will help those completely new to the game to get their bearings, but the biggest 
 change - literally the completely revamped UI - is what is key in bringing new players into the 
 fold. It is very easy now to see at-a-glance exactly the state of affairs among your cities, troops, 
 workers, improvements, etc. And of course, the 3D graphics are just spectacular! I'm also really 
 liking the background music... put all of these together, and you've got yourself one very nice 
 package.
  
  The strategy is much easier to get into now due to all of the subtle hints the game throws at you. 
 I was actually worried that this would make the game too easy to play, but I've already encountered 
 situations where the suggestions the game gives don't match what I need to accomplish. For instance 
 - I wanted to get a wonder built sooner, so needed to devote more tiles to production than food. 
 The suggestions for my worker were mostly for food improvements tho, so I chose ones that would 
 help production instead.
  
  Overall, I'm going to say that without a doubt this is Sid Meier's finest hour. I am very thankful 
 for all the work done by the Firaxis team, and really hope this game succeeds... so they'll be 
 inclined to work on a Civ V in the future! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Xtreme_Man1ak
Rating: 9.8
Date: Oct 26, 2005 7:16 pm PT
Review:  Just when I thought no strategy game could top Civilization II... along came the fourth installment 
 in the series, Civilization IV
  
  Civilization IV adds in great graphics among other things, but the reason why Civilization IV is 
 such a great game is due to its almost limitless opportunity to customize to your every will and 
 whim. The introduction of religion along with various new and snazzy graphics for things such as 
 food production and population morale add an overall gloss to the game's great chance to do what 
 you want with it. The various tweaks, such as better trade options with the computer, have hit 
 the nail on the head and really made Civilization IV as perfect as any consumer can wish for. Little 
 things like small graphics of birds flying out when taking over a small village or the ability 
 to upgrade your troops in whatever way you want really add new demensions to the game. The use 
 of Great Scientists and other especially important figures coupled with Wonders of the world have 
 also helped to make this game thoroughly addicting.
  
  Multiplayer also seems to be much more fun and reminiscent of games that were almost made for multiplayer 
 such as Warcraft III in the best of ways.
  
  Another great change for Civ IV is timing. The game is no longer incredibly monatnous... I played 
 for 5,000 years in what felt like 5 minutes. There is also the option to play slowly, recommended 
 speed, or super fast depending on how much time you have to waste.
  
  Overall, Civ IV makes for a great addition to any game collection whether your looking to blow 
 things up or for testing your knowledge against a computer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gamer3999
Rating: 9.6
Date: Oct 26, 2005 6:48 pm PT
Review:  WOW, thats all I can say. This game is a total redux of civilization 3 and all its expansions. 
 The graphics are great, however they are not the best out there, aoe 3 is probably the best. The 
 game play will keep you addictive for days, months...... years? The soundtrack is also very well 
 done with lost of historical sounds. Many new civs, units, and features were added as well. My 
 favorite being the religions. Just founding the religion you want first is great. Overall this 
 game was very well done good sounds, good graphics, just great. Been waiting for 5 years for it 
 but it came. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Matte979
Rating: 9.8
Date: Oct 26, 2005 3:56 pm PT
Review:  Oh my GOD, played 4 hours. This is a new game. Options Options there are to many to count and I 
 love it. Graphics are Great and the best I have seen for a strategy game. I dont count AOEIII but 
 even if I did I like the interface and the way things feel and look better than AOEIII. Worked 
 on my 24 inch Dell Widescreen out of the box 1920*1200 on my ATI 9800 XT card. 
  
  Its just an awesome game with awesome features.
  
  Also love the included world map. Its big 
 enough to have some serious fun.
  
  Only ony glitch found during my playing the sound of wonder movies was a little chopped up with 
 background sound, could be my audio settings nothing major.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: lukekhangmail
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 26, 2005 11:23 am PT
Review:  Best game ever made. Perfect, Addictive, and Stimulatiing. Buy it. You'll love it. I wish I could 
 skip school every morning and just play Civilization IV. When I grow up I want to work with Sid 
 Meiers in making new Civilizations. My parents already think I play too much but I haven't even 
 started. Ever smoked and tried to stop, well Civ is like that but about ten times worse. (I mean 
 more hard to break) but that is a good thing. 
  
  Firaxis did a great job again. I cannot wait til Civ 4 and can't even imagine how good Civ 5 will 
 be. Firaxis better make a Civ 5. After a few more years. 
  
  Forget Age of Empires, and Red Alert and all the other wannabees. Civilization all the way! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dbjunior92
Rating: 9.6
Date: Nov 4, 2005 5:57 am PT
Review:  I'm by no means a lapdog of Sid Meir, but he's really outdone himself with this latest offering. 
 I won't go into the same details as everyone else did, nor will I post a two-sentence review. The 
 bottom line is, this game is superb. It gives you the feeling of power, prestige, and accomplishment 
 like no other game does. It does this by not FORCING you to micromanage every tiny little issue, 
 while at the same time giving you MUCH more power, and control for exactly how your civilization 
 rises, and if you're not good enough, how it decays to dust.
  
  I always start my games out playing ridiculously easy. This was no exception. Of course I came, 
 I ruled, and I owned. I like it that way, and I've liked it that way since the very first Civilization 
 game I bought fresh out of high school, when it was already a year old. I was not really challenged 
 in my game, as I chose not to be, but the enhanced diplomacy, the advent of religions, the kinds 
 of culture that exist, all add a unique, refreshing flavor to an already unprecedented franchise. 
 The graphics and animation are of course, improved, and in my opinion, Civilization IV does for 
 Civilization what the SECOND one did for the FIRST. I think Firaxis was listening to its fan base 
 when they made CIV IV, and I think they saw the mods the fans were making.
  
  My hat goes off to them for making this such a customizeable game, as well. They understand full 
 well that variety is everything, and there's always room for more of it. ALWAYS. I'm very pleased 
 that they brought back the wonder movies. The musical score is great, and actually reminds me a 
 bit of Civilization II, in terms of how much happier I was with it, than what existed in the first 
 one, which was NOTHING. *haha*.
  
  As an aging Generation X'er, who saw the very first, and is savoring the very latest, I'm proud 
 to see where Civilization has gone, and quite thrilled, actually, that we didn't need to wait almost 
 seven years to see the newest one. I am hopelessly addicted to Civilization, and enjoy it so much 
 that I am compelled to cut this review short, and continue playing it.
  
  One of the best empire building games ever built. I think it is *THE* best, and to say the very 
 least, the best in the series...
  
  The only con that I will give to this game is that whilst the graphics are wonderful, they're certainly 
 not absolute state-of-the-art, but that is immaterial in a game like this. (Though It will keep 
 the score from being perfect.) The speaking/dramatic acting is a bit unpolished, and unconvincing. 
 This drops the score a tad. And last, but not least, if they sold this game for $29.99, I would 
 have bought myself, and my friend one. As it stands, I am forced to pay $50.00 for it because Firaxis 
 knows that I am willing to do so, even though it is an obscene amount of money. :)
  
  Keep up the good work, Sid!
  
  Daniel 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mamad_raiss
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 26, 2005 4:49 am PT
Review:  I cant write too much for that because I cant spend my time here . do you know why? cause I want 
 play CivIV . 
  best ever game I have played. it brings you the best things that you desire.
  you have every 
 things that happend before us maybe 2000 year ago until now . you can build all famous building 
 better that pervious civilization and more than those . and you can have all famous people like 
 newton, einstein and ... . you can make all new and old warfares like warior or maybe a modern tank. 
 you can have a relegion or anykind of democracy and anarchism . and many more ... go and buy it 
 to find this huge games secrets . bye  yOU ShOULD PLaY iT nOW 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Aedelas
Rating: 9.7
Date: Oct 26, 2005 2:45 am PT
Review:  Civilization IV
  
  One more turn, one more turn, one more turn, a phrase so many of you will be familiar with. If 
 you have ever played a Civilization game before then you will know how much anticipation is around 
 the forth release of the series.
  
  So what has the game got to offer? Well to start with you get a choice of eighteen Civs and twenty 
 six different leaders within the game, making it one of the largest selections of playable nations 
 in the series, and I can only imagine that once the expansions start rolling out therell be even 
 more.
  
  Each leader has two Leader traits that will give you a selection of bonuses, each one depending 
 on the nature of the leader and Civilization he or she commands.
  
  Spiritual  Should your leader be of the spiritual kind you can expect to never encounter any anarchy, 
 which is a good thing Im sure youll all agree and you will also receive a double production speed 
 on any temples you decide to build.
  
  Philosophical  Leaders of a Philosophical nature will grant your Civilization with a 100% increase 
 to your birth rate, plus you will receive double production speed on any Universitys you decide 
 to build.
  
  Organized  These leaders help reduce your Civic Upkeep by 50% and grant you double production 
 speed of a lighthouse and courthouse.
  
  Industrious  If you like building wonders of the world this may be the trait to look out for, 
 as you will receive a increase in production on all wonders by 50%, as well as double production 
 speed on any forges.
  
  Financial  Leaders of a Financial state of mind enable you to build banks at double the normal 
 production speed, as well as granting you an extra +1 gold on any spot of land that is currently 
 occupied with 2 or more gold.
  
  Expansive  You will receive an extra +2 health to all your cities and you will also be granted 
 double production speed on granaries and harbours should your leader be Expansive.
  
  Creative  Leaders of the Creative variety are ones who like to dabble in the arts, and thats 
 the reason you are granted an extra +2 culture for every city under your command and also a double 
 production bonus to all Theatres and Coliseums. 
  
  Aggressive  Perhaps you like the Aggressive stance, if so then you will be pleased to know that 
 all Aggressive Leaders grant their Civs a free promotion of melee and gunpowder units and also 
 a double production speed on all barracks and dry docks will no doubt help in times of war.
  
  As mentioned above there are eighteen different Civilizations within the game. Each Civilization 
 has their own unique unit, something you may want to consider when you decide who to lead to glory. 
 Do you choose the Americans whose Navy Seals can go toe to toe with the more modern units or perhaps 
 you prefer the Greeks whose unique unit the Phalanx can dominate the early years. This is one choice 
 that you need to consider when deciding what Civilization to choose, you also have to take into 
 account the Starting Techs. Each Civilization gets two Starting technologys, so at least you will 
 be able to build or do something at least as soon as you start. Depending on how you play will 
 depend on what sort of starting techs you will have to look out for. Adding this choice with the 
 unique unit can give you quite a headache when it comes down to it, but over all you wont be at 
 a disadvantage whoever you decide to choose, below is a list of Civilizations and some basic info 
 about them.
  
  American
  
  Starting Tech: Fishing & Agriculture
  Unique Unit: Navy Seal
  Leader: Washington (Financial and Organized)
  Leader: Roosevelt's (Industrious 
 and Organized)
  
  Arabians
  
  Starting Tech: Mysticism & The Wheel
  Unique Unit: Camel Archer
  Leader: Saladin (Philosophical and Spiritual)
  
  Chinese
  
 
  Starting Tech: Agriculture & Mining
  Unique Unit: Cho  ko -Nu
  Leader: Quin Shi Huang (Industrious and Financial)
  Leader: Mao Zedong (Philosophical and Organized)
 
  
  Egyptians
  
  Starting Tech: Agriculture & The Wheel
  Unique Unit: War Chariot
  Leader: Hatshepsut (Spiritual and Creative)
  
  English
  
  Starting Tech: Fishing and Mining
 
  Unique Unit: Redcoat
  Leader: Elizabeth (Philosophical and Financial)
  Leader: Victoria (Expansive and Financial)
  
  French
  
  Starting Tech: Agriculture & The 
 Wheel
  Unique Unit: Musketeer
  Leader: Louis XIV (Creative and Organized)
  Leader: Napoleon (Aggressive and Industrious)
  
  Germans
  
  Starting Tech: Hunting and 
 Mining
  Unique Unit: Panzer Tank
  Leader: Frederick (creative and philosophical)
  Leader: Bismarck (expansive and industrious)
  
  Greeks
  
  Starting Tech: Hunting and Fishing
 
  Unique Unit: Phalanx
  Leader: Alexander (aggressive and philosophical)
  
  Incans
  
  Starting Tech: Agriculture and Mysticism
  Unique Unit: Quechua
  Leader: Huayna Capac (Aggressive 
 and Financial)
  
  Indian
  
  Starting Tech: Mysticism and Mining
  Unique Unit: Fast Worker
  Leader: Ghandi (industrious and spiritual)
  Leader: Asoka (organized 
 and spiritual)
  
  Japanese
  
  Starting Tech: Fishing and The Wheel
  Unique Unit: Samurai
  Leader: Tokugawa (aggressive and organized.)
  
  Malinese
  Starting 
 Tech: The Wheel and Mining
  Unique Unit: Skirmisher
  Leader: Mansa Musa (Financial and spiritual)
  
  Mongolians
  
  Starting Tech: The Wheel 
 and Hunting
  Unique Unit: Keshik
  Leader: Genghis (Aggressive and Expansive)
  Leader: Kublai (Aggressive and Creative)
  
  Persians
  
  Starting Tech: Agriculture and 
 Hunting
  Unique Unit: Immortal
  Leader: Cyrus (Organized and Expansive)
  
  Romans
  
  Starting Tech: Fishing and Mining
  Unique Unit: Praetorian
  Leader: Julius Caesar (Creative 
 and Expansive)
  
  Russians
  
  Starting Tech: Mining and Hunting
  Unique Unit: Cossack
  Leader: Peter (Philosophical and Expansive)
  Leader: Catherine (Creative 
 and Financial)
  
  Spanish
  
  Starting Tech: Fishing and Mysticism
  Unique Unit: Conquistador
  Leader: Isabella (Spiritual and Expansive)
  
  Another new feature 
 to the series is Religion. As you progress through the ages you can unlock a total of seven Religions. 
 When unlocked the Religion will spread through your empire allowing you to influence your people 
 to create great prophets, make more money and be happier in general. 
  
  Name: Buddhism
  Discovered: Meditation
  Wonder: Buddhist Temple
  
  Name: Christianity
  Discovered: Theology
 
  Wonder: Christian Shrine
  
  Name: Confucianism 
  Discovered: Code of Laws
  Wonder: Confucian Shrine
  
  Name: Hinduism
  Discovered: Polytheism
  Wonder: Hindu Shrine
 
  
  Name: Islam
  Discovered: Divine Right
  Wonder: Islamic Shrine
  
  Name: Judaism
  Discovered: Monotheism
  Wonder: Jewish Shrine
  
  Name: Taoism
  Discovered: Philosophy
 
  Wonder: Taoist Shrine
  
  Each Religion will also have a special unit, the Missionary. The Missionary has the ability to 
 venture off to other nations to convert them to your religion. Beware though enemy nations can 
 and will try converting your people to their religion.
  
  All religions wont have any bonuses and will all be level with each other, which is a good thing 
 as this could of potentially been a major banana skin and upset a lot of people.
  
  Over all the Religion aspect is a very nice addition to the game and it gives those who prefer 
 that extra milestone to conquer, can now add converting everyone to your religion as one you can 
 try and accomplish.
  
  There will be approximately twenty eight Great Wonders of the World and around twelve Small Wonders.
 
  
  Wonder Movies will make a return and players of Civ II will be pleased to hear this after their 
 absence within Civ III. These are particularly eye pleasing, and its nice to see the video after 
 youve just completed the wonder, sort of gives you a virtual pat on the back so to speak.
  
  The Wonders include old favourites such as the Apollo Program, The Great Library and The Hanging 
 Gardens, but will also include new wonders such as Hollywood, Notre Dame, Stonehenge and Mt. Rushmore. 
 
  
  Theres so much more to the game, but I simply want to get back and play it now as I can hear it 
 calling my name.
  
  Simply put, go play this game now.
  
  One more turn one more turn one more turn. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: marcpic
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 25, 2005 6:28 pm PT
Review:  This is one of the greatest games I have played in a long time. Sure there are many great games 
 being released for the upcoming holiday season, but this one is a definate must have. By the time 
 you have mastered your very own civilization summer will be knocking at your door. I have only 
 spent 30 seconds writing this and I already need my Civ fix. You must buy this game. If you do 
 not have the money wait outside a department store that sells this game and "borrow" it from a 
 small kid who walks out the door. Just make sure to return it to him after about 8 months. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DouglasBuffone
Rating: 9.8
Date: Oct 24, 2005 6:20 pm PT
Review:  Civilization 4 is simply my favorite PC game of all time. The game has unbelievable thought and 
 creativity to it and it is just the most fun strategy game of all time. Sid Mier has hit gold once 
 again with this new installment of the classic strategy game series.
  
  Gameplay: 
  The gameplay in this game is simply unparalled to any other game in the genre. The way the player 
 controls his/her empires is fluid and requires less effort than in previous installments. The game 
 has amazing amounts of things to do and explore and the online gameplay is amazing.
  
  Graphics:
  This is one of the areas that Civ 4 takes amazing leaps over its predecessor Civ 3. 
 The graphics are simply amazing. The color of the map and the different things happening on the 
 map and within the city are great. However, the game is not primarily known for great graphics. 
 This game does not have superb graphics, but the fans of the old games will be satisfied. 
  
  Sound:
  One of my favorite attributes of the game was the sound, especially the amazing score 
 put toghether. The music encompasses different cultures and time periods very well. However, I 
 felt some of the voice acting was poor and some of the sound effects were a little rought around 
 the edges. 
  
  Value:
  This is a game that you can count on to have great value. This game has unbelieveable replay value 
 and thus will allow the player to play the game over and over with different empires using different 
 strategies. The online part of the game justs adds to the attractive package.
  
  Pros:
  Amazingly detailed world
  Best of the best strategy wise
  Amazing score
  Good online support
 
  New graphics add to the package
  
  Cons: 
  Graphics are not amazing for today's standards
  Voice acting and sound effects are sometimes 
 rough around the edges
  
  Hope you enjoy playing the game as much as I am.
  Check out my other reviews for more in depth analysis of your favorite and most popular games 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bigaxel123
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 24, 2005 3:05 pm PT
Review:  This is the best Civilization game yet. Not only is the offline immersive and addictive but it 
 is compelling as well. It is one of those rare gems that will be enjoyed for years to come.
  
  Unlike most sim-based strategies, this game features one of the most intuitive formats as well 
 as accesible layouts ever. It is great as a "pick up and play" game, but also as a "marathon" game.
 
  
  The gameplay is tight and intuitive allowing for multiple users to play over LAN, INTERNET, SINGLE-PLAYER, 
 and Multiplayer. It features an easy-to-use system that has been streamlined to allow quicker gaming.
 
  
  The graphics and sound are acceptable for the level of 4x gaming. The musical score is good as 
 always and the graphics are bright and vivid.
  
  The real key to this game is its massive amount of immersion and depth. This game will be played 
 for a while and even includes an in-game clock with an alarm function. That is how addictive this 
 game is. You will lose track of time.
  
  Civ it up because it doesn't get any better than this! 9.5 out of 10 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
