-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Civilization IV: Warlords
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/strategy/civilizationivwarlords/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 It's Civilization IV, only bigger and better than before.
 six challenging, new historical scenarios that rewrite the Civ rules in different ways.
 ability to finally play as the barbarians and wreck havoc on those haughty civs.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 A few minor bugs.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Jul 25, 2006
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8.6
Critic Score: 8.3, 40 Review (s)
User Score: 8.7, 1,765 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: 2K Games
Developer: Firaxis Games
Genre: Historic Turn-Based...
Date:     Jul 24, 2006 &raquo;  
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Warlords adds six new civilizations and other enhancements to Civilization IV, but the cool new 
 scenarios are the real treat in this expansion. 

  If you own Civilization IV, then you've probably conquered the world a fair amount of times by 
 now. (You've probably been crushed an equal number of times, as well.) If the usual conquer-the-world-style 
 gameplay that takes you from the Stone Age to the Space Age is beginning to look a bit familiar, 
 then you're in luck. Nearly nine months after Civ IV shipped, we have Civilization IV: Warlords, 
 an expansion pack that adds a lot of excellent content to an already great game.  

          Warlords introduces new civilizations, new scenarios, and new units, such as, well, warlords 
 in the form of great generals.     

  Civilization has a long history of expansions. The second and third games in the series each had 
 two expansion packs released for them. Warlords continues the tradition by introducing both improvements 
 and additions to the regular campaign game, as well as introducing a slew of new scenarios that 
 offer a completely different style of play from the epic game. The expansion adds six new civilizations, 
 and while they're introduced to flesh out the individual scenarios, they're all available in the 
 regular campaign game, as well. You can now play as the Carthaginians, the Celts, the Koreans, 
 the Ottomans, the Vikings, and the Zulus. Just like the civilizations in the core game, each of 
 these civilizations has its own unique units, famous leaders from history, and snazzy musical theme. 

  Warlords takes its name from the new warlord unit in the game, which is sort of like the old great-general 
 unit from previous Civ games. Indeed, in the regular campaign game, warlords appear as great generals, 
 sort of like how the great artists, great engineers, and other great-people units would pop up 
 from time to time in Civ IV. Armed with a variety of powers, great generals can lead your armies 
 in war, and they can bestow experience points on regular units under their command. Or, great generals 
 can speed up your military-unit production in a certain city or make it so that new units start 
 out with extra experience.  

  While the additions to the core game are nice, they're not exactly ground breaking. The regular 
 campaign feels pretty much the same as before, only there are new leaders and civs to contend with. 
 There are also a number of new wonders of the world, but for the most part they blend into the 
 existing wonder set pretty seamlessly, save for the Great Wall, which has the cool effect of erecting 
 a huge wall around the borders of whichever civilization completes it first. Still, the real meat 
 in this expansion is in the scenarios, which are basically brand-new games in many regards.  

 
  These new scenarios are engaging, though they do skew a bit toward ancient-world settings and 
 conflicts. Still, the campaigns here are interesting, and each features a unique challenge. These 
 scenarios are essentially modifications of the core game, and they feature rewritten tech trees 
 and unique units that are appropriate for their settings. So instead of getting a full-fledged 
 tech tree that covers everything from the wheel to fusion power, you might get a more focused tech 
 tree that lets you create upgraded versions of existing units or that unlocks certain upgrades. 
 Many feature a limited number of turns in which to accomplish your objective, something that might 
 not sit well with conservative Civ players that like to sit back and build up their cities. Risk 
 taking is rewarded instead, which will probably sit well with aggressive Civ players, and it may 
 also teach conservative players how to become more opportunistic.  

          The new scenarios are challenging and can make you rethink how you play Civ. For instance, 
 as the Mongols, your job is to destroy, not to build.     

  A number of new scenarios are basically retellings of epic conquests from long ago. Alexander's 
 Conquest focuses on Alexander the Great in the fourth century BC, and your job is to conquer your 
 way eastward across the Persian Empire and into India before you run out of turns. You really have 
 to push aggressively to accomplish everything before time runs out. The Peloponnesian Wars and 
 the Rise of Rome scenarios also cover the ancient Mediterranean world. The former is a challenge 
 thanks to the geography of Greece, as you must master sea power to move armies around the many 
 islands of the archipelago. You can play as either the Spartan or the Delian League (Athens) . The 
 Rome scenario, on the other hand, focuses on the Mediterranean at large, and you can play as the 
 Carthaginians, the Romans, the Celts, the Egyptians, or the Grecians to see which civilization 
 is ascendant.  

  Two of the scenarios are set in the Far East. The Genghis Khan scenario really turns convention 
 on its ear, because the goal isn't to conquer and settle so much as it is to conquer and pillage 
 everything to the ground. The Mongols also have a unique build mechanic, since they're essentially 
 a nomadic society. Rather than build cities, the Mongols bring their camps along with them, and 
 where you set up your camp determines what kind of units are recruited that turn. Grassland means 
 cavalry, while desert means infantry and forests can be catapults, assuming you've recovered the 
 technology from a sacked civilization.  

  Meanwhile, Chinese unification lets you play as any of the major houses vying for power in the 
 fourth century BC. Your goal is to become the emperor of China, and you can do so by force or through 
 diplomacy by getting enough rivals to vote for you in the council, so this scenario is sort of 
 like the regular campaign game in that regard. However, there are interesting new rules. Basically, 
 religion is replaced with bloodlines, and the way to get other factions to be more agreeable to 
 you is to arrange marriages and "spread" your bloodline around. The tech tree has been reworked 
 extensively to allow for the massive armies that were featured during this era, and there are cool 
 and unique little features in this scenario, such as the ability for each faction to build national 
 walls. These are sort of like the Great Wall wonder, except each faction can get one. The new vassalage 
 feature (also available in the campaign game) is useful here, as you can subjugate a foe and make 
 them your devoted ally.  

  Then there's Omens, perhaps the most interesting and unique of the scenarios. It's set in 18th 
 Century North America, making it the most "modern" of the scenarios in the game, but it's not what 
 you expect. You play as either the French or the British as they attempt to colonize the New World 
 and spread Catholicism or Protestantism, respectively. The goal is to convert at least 75 percent 
 of the map by the end of the game. The kicker is that a divine spirit appears at regular intervals 
 and basically unloads on whichever faction is in last place (including Native American factions) . 
 This means that there's constant pressure to stay ahead of your opponents, because if you fall 
 behind at the wrong moment, you're in for it. The divine spirit is unstoppable and will easily 
 crush any military unit in its way using fireballs. The only thing that you can do is try and hold 
 out as long as you can, and it goes away after a while.  

          Omen is a historical scenario, save for the fact that divine fury can come down upon you 
 at any time.     

  Finally, the Barbarians scenario lets you play as those pesky barbarians that plague the campaign 
 game. In fact, this scenario starts out just like a regular Civ IV game, only the artificial intelligence 
 controls all of the civilizations. The game will begin just like a normal game, and at a certain 
 point your barbarians are introduced. You'll start out with enough gold to purchase different barbarian 
 units and unit upgrades, and then you have to destroy as many civs as possible. You can't capture 
 cities; you can only sack them, as well as pillage terrain improvements. This gives you gold, which 
 can be used to purchase more units at your mobile camp, which must be defended. This can be fun, 
 as after having endured barbarians over the course of four Civilization games, it's satisfying 
 to have the shoe on the other foot for a change.  

  There's a lot of really cool content to go through in Warlords, and you can easily find yourself 
 lost in any one of the scenarios. They'll most likely appeal to Civ veterans looking for a new 
 challenge or a new gameplay experience, though. Even at their easier difficulty levels, the scenarios 
 might be a bit too much for newcomers, who should stick to the regular campaign game for now. We 
 did notice a few bugs, such as great-wonder movies that didn't play, but overall, this expansion 
 is a lot more polished than Civilization IV was at its launch. Of course, it has the benefit of 
 incorporating all the patches that have been made to the core game over the past year, and it also 
 packages the pit-boss multiplayer client that was released separately, as well. Still, if you liked 
 Civ 4, Warlords is a must-have expansion.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (33 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: eclarkdog
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 12, 2008 12:52 pm PT
Review:  I'll keep this short and sweet since this is an expansion pack. Warlords provides a significant 
 improvement to already exceptional CIV IV turn-based historic strategy game. I've actually read 
 several complaints on boards about the Warlords expansion pack, which I think came after the BTS 
 expansion. 
  
  At a basic level, Warlords provides improvements to the core CIV game that are graphical as well 
 as certain tweaks to the gameplay. The standout new feature though is the Warlord unit that as 
 earned by gaining experience in battle. Although I'm not aware of the actual calculation, one can 
 earn multiple Warlord units over time depending on how much and how successful you are in battle. 
 The Warlord is based on a renowned and real historical figure, usually a great general or leader, 
 and some are a bit more obscure - you can certainly look them up for more info. Once you gain this 
 Warlord you have a few options on how you use him. Attach him to a stack of units and these units 
 can be upgraded immediately based on experience points. Have him join as city and a military building 
 well be created to allow you to generate more advance units with certain bonuses. I tend to like 
 the latter feature, although it is fun to see your general attached to an army as you go into battle. 
 Although the general used in the sense does not seem to provide any other advantage in attack, 
 he will have access to a wider array of bonuses and gains experience faster which can in turn make 
 your army more powerful. I would have like to see some advantage in the actual battle, but your 
 general can easily be defeated by a similar unit. Overall, the warlord feature is a very effective 
 and fun new addition to the game.
  
  Warlords also adds to some nice to scenarios to play that provide tons of new gameplay and content. 
 What I especially liked about these scenarios is that they were more focused and had better goals 
 and agendas. How one plays the Viking scenario is very different from say the Rome scenario. There 
 is a scenario or two that isn't quite worth playing like the bizarre Omens, but then every version 
 of CIV tends to have that.
  
  In short, I think Warlords is a must have for any fan of CIV IV. I actually like it better than 
 Beyond the Sword, because although BTS has some nice new content it added some complexities and 
 features that I didn't care for much like espionage. I have Warlords and BTS but tend to play all 
 my CIV games now through the Warlords executable unless I'm playing a mod that requires BTS. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sc_ajk29
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 23, 2008 6:37 am PT
Review:  Civilization IV: Warlords is the first expansion pack to the critically acclaimed Civilization 
 IV. It adds new civilizations, new scenarios, and new improvements. 
  
  Warlords adds six new civilizations to the game. Carthage, Celts, Korea, Ottomans, Vikings, and 
 Zulu, each with their own leader. All of these civs were featured in previous Civ games, so it 
 makes sense to add them here. They diversify the gameplay somewhat.
  
  One major gameplay change is the addition of vassal states. If one civilization is far weaker than 
 another, then these two said civs can farm a vassal state with one another. In essence, the two 
 civs form a "permanent" alliance with one another. In other words, they have the same features 
 of an alliance; if the master goes to war with another civilization, the vassal state must go to 
 war as well, and so on. The vassal state can break away from the master civ when it is big enough 
 to survive on its own. This was a great addition, as it allows one civiliation to surrender to 
 another without giving up completely.
  
  Warlords also gives civilization its own unique building. This further diversifies the civilizations, 
 which I felt was a great idea as well. Now civilizations have their own unique building as well 
 as a unique unit.
  
  The biggest addition to Civ IV, however, is the new scenarios. These focus on many different points 
 in history, such as Rise of Rome and the Peloponnese Wars. The Civilization series always has great 
 civilizations, so I give Warlords a thumbs-up.
  
  Overall, Civ IV: Warlords has amazing, addictive Civ IV: gameplay with several tweaks here and 
 there. What more could a Civilization or TBS fan want?
  
  Gameplay: 9
  Graphics: 9
  Sound: 9
  Value: 10
  Tilt: 8
  
  Final score: 9.0\10 (superb)
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: podgod333
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 7, 2008 4:35 pm PT
Review:  When you start playing a game you won't stop not if it takes you hours to complete, it is that 
 addicting, yet after you spends hours playing it you realize how much you didn't do. 
  
  In a game called Civilization you would expect to be encouraged to found numerous cities to further 
 increase your civ. You aren't. The game imposes numerous penalties to you for every city you have. 
 Although this penalties are not so harsh that you can't play. They limit you freedom on the larger 
 worlds.
  
  On the small worlds the games are fast-paced strategy with lots of action, and lots of fun but 
 on the larger worlds you often have to slow the game down just to be able to meet everyone. Although 
 the larger worlds require slow methodical playing I don't praticularly enjoy, they are still fun 
 and dynamic just not in my oinion as the rest of the game which is extremely enjoyable and addicting.
 
  
  ALthough certain elements can be limiting, the only reason they exist is the sheer scope of the 
 game. The game has a size, pace suitable for every player and their strategies. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: floridajoe03
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 3, 2007 10:09 am PT
Review:  Civilization Warlords is the expansion to Civilization 4 which is pretty much the universal PC 
 game of the year for 2005. With the term expansion you expect the game to expand and you would 
 be right it does expand the game but not much. The core gameplay sees the least amount of changes, (gameplay 
 n. style of playing a game or manner in which a game is played) , it's the other things that expand. 
 To begin with three new wonders; the one thats gotten most of the pre -release hype is the Great 
 Wall which does everything you'd think; but there are two other wonder introduced; the Temple of 
 Artemis and the University of Sankore. The Temple of Artemis functions like a kind of super temple, 
 however the University of Sankore pretty much makes your religious buildings into seminary schools 
 with added resarch per turn. The new wonders are not the only inclusion in the pack; the item with 
 the biggest reprecussions is the new great general, which appears after enough combat. It can be 
 used in three ways: first as a warlord to direct a unit (s) , second to construct an academy in a 
 city, and 3 to be a general in a city and add exp to new units. Among the new items are two units 
 Trireme, a kind of upgraded galley, and Trebuchet, think upgraded catapult. The cities themselves 
 have changed there are now new buildings, each civilization in the game can now build a unqiue 
 building for their civilization that grants benefits to the civilization that builds it. Also, 
 new is the Stable building which adds exp to new mounted units and the Monument which replaces 
 the Obelisk building from civilization 4, the Obelisk is now the unqiue building for Egypt. New 
 leaders join the exsisting civilizations England gets Winston Churchill, Rome gets Augustus Caesar, 
 Egypt gets Ramesses II and Russia gets Stalin. There also three new leader traits: Protective, 
 Imperialistic, and Protective. Which brings me to the brand new civilizations that join the fray 
 ; in order they are: Carthage leader Hannibal unit Numidian Cavalry building Cothon (replaces the 
 harbor building) Celts leader Brennus unit Gallic Warrior building Dun (replaces the wall building) 
 Korea leader Wang Kon unit Hwacha building Seowon (replaces the university building) the Vikings 
 leader Ragnar unit Berserker building Trading post (replaces the lighthouse building) the Zulu 
 leader Shaka unit Smpi building Ikhanda (replaces the barracks building) Finally new scenarios, 
 unifiying China, Alexander, Rome, the Vikings, Genghis Khan, Omens (ficitional) , and Barbarians (fictional) . 
 In all this is a worthy addition to (not only) the civilization 4 game, but the civilization franchise 
 in general. If you don't have Civilization 4 Warlords pick it up and if you don't have Civilization 
 4 pick them both up they are by far among the best games you can own. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Llarrev
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jul 30, 2007 3:53 pm PT
Review:  From the truly superb Civilization IV comes a great expansion, providing further content to a tried 
 and tested formula. The expansion adds six new civilizations to the mix; the Carthaginians, the 
 Celts, the Koreans, the Ottomans, the Vikings, and the Zulus. Just like its main game contemporaries, 
 each faction has its own unique traits to provide an advantage over the other games. It is titled 
 war lords thanks to the new unit of the same name, which provides military leadership in times 
 of war. They can also speed up the production of military related buildings and units in a certain 
 city, or bestow extra experience upon newly trained troops. We are also presented with a few new 
 wonders and buildings, but nothing truly revolutionary.
  
  The scenarios is where the freshness in this game lies. These scenarios full often pushes the player 
 to play in a certain manner, most often aggressively, which can help to develop a players style 
 in the central game with a tad more flexibility. Many of the scenarios are set in the ancient world 
 such as the conquest of Alexander the Great, or The Seven Kingdoms Era of Ancient China, during 
 C4 BCE. These scenarios represent the areas geographically and though not specifically historically 
 precise are rather enjoyable. My particular recommendation is the Omens scenario, where one must 
 play as either the French or British empires converting the new world to their respective religions. 
 It's also worth noting that one can play as the barbarians and attempt to bring down civilization 
 for a change!
  
  Overall, though not vastly different from the main game, the scenarios and the few extras to the 
 core game deem it a worthy purchase. The theme song, which happens to be an old battle song in 
 Old Arabic, with some of the lines translating as, Burn them! Burn them! Burn them down! is rather 
 catchy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: abcmax
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jul 27, 2007 1:55 am PT
Review:  If you own Civilization IV, then you've probably conquered the world a fair amount of times by 
 now. (You've probably been crushed an equal number of times, as well.) If the usual conquer-the-world-style 
 gameplay that takes you from the Stone Age to the Space Age is beginning to look a bit familiar, 
 then you're in luck. Nearly nine months after Civ IV shipped, we have Civilization IV: Warlords, 
 an expansion pack that adds a lot of excellent content to an already great gamWarlords takes its 
 name from the new warlord unit in the game, which is sort of like the old great-general unit from 
 previous Civ games. Indeed, in the regular campaign game, warlords appear as great generals, sort 
 of like how the great artists, great engineers, and other great-people units would pop up from 
 time to time in Civ IV. Armed with a variety of powers, great generals can lead your armies in 
 war, and they can bestow experience points on regular units under their command. Or, great generals 
 can speed up your military-unit production in a certain city or make it so that new units start 
 out with extra experience. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Felluca
Rating: 10
Date: May 11, 2007 4:47 am PT
Review:  If you are a fan of Sid Meier or the Civilization series, stop reading this and go buy the expansion-NOW! 
 As a long-time avid fan of the series I admit to my bias on the series. This expansion adds several 
 new Civilizations, numerous techs and many new diplomatic options and fixes some of the glaring 
 issues with Civ IV. The Scenario options is very cool as well, as the fellows over at Civfanatics. com 
 have an enormous community of custom maps, mods and scenarios. Again, go get it! Warning: Your 
 Social Life May Suffer. Without doubt, in my mind, having consistently played to death and owned 
 numerous copies of the Civilization series since Civilization II, Alpha C., Civilization III and 
 its expansions to Civ IV; Warlords is the most stable release to date. Often times first-releases 
 of the series tend to be plagued with quirky bugs though, they are usually fixed quickly. Excellent 
 game, A+++ 
::::::

::::::
UserName: doctor_kaz
Rating: 7
Date: Apr 26, 2007 1:23 pm PT
Review:  Warlords is an expansion pack to arguably the greatest turn-based strategy game ever made  Civilization 
 IV. It adds some cool new ideas, but overall, it doesnt add a lot of value to the core game. The 
 new civilizations are okay, but they arent drastically improved or different from the previous 
 civs (but its nice to be able to play as Hannibal of Carthage again!) . The game has added a unique 
 building for each civ, and that is a fine addition, since lack of differentiation has always been 
 an issue with this game. It has also added another great person  the Great General. This is, by 
 far, the best addition to the game. You actually earn the Great General not by building buildings, 
 but by waging war. One of the major problems with this expansion pack is a new game mechanic  
 the vassal state. The vassal state mechanic is severely flawed, to the point where it practically 
 breaks the game. Sometimes, if you are at war with one civ, it will become a vassal state of another 
 civ, and you will instantly be at war with that civ (and all of its other vassal states) immediately 
 by default. Its often possible to get half of the world at war with you almost instantly without 
 doing anything! This is a very annoying game feature that almost guarantees you will lose if it 
 is ever implemented against you. Competing civs will go from 200 points behind you to slingshotting 
 200 points ahead of you in one turn by picking up a couple of vassal states. Sometimes it makes 
 me want to just play with the old Civ 4 core game.
  
  Warlords adds a lot of new scenarios, and my favorite easily is the Barbarians scenario. This is 
 an idea that is long overdue and it changes the game dramatically, since as a Barbarian, you must 
 survive by constantly pillaging. Other than that, I dont see a lot of value in the scenarios. 
 The best part of Civilization has always been the epic game.
  
  In my opinion, this expansion pack is a worthy bargain-binner, but not something to rush out and 
 get. It simply doesn't offer many improvements that make it worth playing. Civ IV is a wonderful 
 game without it. Perhaps you should wait for the inevitable compiliation pack or Platinum Edition 
 that also includes the upcoming Beyond the Sword. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: empion
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 10, 2007 7:16 pm PT
Review:  Since this is an expansion pack, I should just grade it on few attribute than usual. Gameplay: 
 Quite joyful. It offer new special building specificly design for each civilization. New map. New 
 Leaders. New characteristics. New civilizations. New units. All these combine create an almost 
 brand new game. However, if i could, I would like more new provisions (like technology, resources, 
 more maps, new units for all civilization) . But I am than satisfy with the new provisiions. Still 
 have problem with gameplay in the later age for mediocore graphic card. The new patch reduce the 
 lag, but it still persist. (8.5/10)
  
  Sound: some new sound, I love CivIV music! But I want more. (8.5/10) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Urlacher54
Rating: 8.4
Date: Mar 2, 2007 5:57 pm PT
Review:  Warlords adds some really cool new features to Civ IV. I was a little dissapointed by how few new 
 units were added to the game and that there were no new techs. And some of the changes to existing 
 Civ leaders is kinda irritating. But the new leaders, Civ traits, Civs, and the addition of vassal 
 states and copitulation, and the new wonders more than make up for the other deficiencies. The 
 great generals add a whole new element to military planning, and the new wonders like the Great 
 Wall rock! Finally being able to actually subjugate other Civs (either diplomatically or through 
 military conquest) without having to actually take over all their cities is a welcome change.
 
  
  Although the new intro movie and title screen and music are dissapointing. I liked the original 
 title screen and music much better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: landsmarshall
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jan 18, 2007 11:55 am PT
Review:  I have to give this game a 9.8 because, unlike any other game I own, I cannot... absolutely cannot... stop 
 playing. I've recently picked up Sid Meier's Railroads! and CivCity Rome (frustrating but fun) , 
 and played them a good bit, but the CD/DVD drive in my Alienware PC keeps calling for Civ4. Why 
 does this game hold on to you like a parasite clings to its host? Because you can always do better. 
 I still haven't reached the topmost skill level, and keep learning new tricks to the game. For 
 city-building fans, the start of the game is engrossing as you search out rare resources -- gems, 
 gold, marble -- and plant your settler nearby. Then, of course, as you're scouting out the rest of 
 the land you find more perfect sites for new cities, but if you build out too much too soon you 
 find yourself going broke and losing fighting units after they go on strike.
  
  So you have to balance growth with prosperity, and temper your eagerness to expand with wise decisions 
 on which technologies to pursue when. And if you're going for culture (makes those city boundaries 
 grow out like the aforementioned parasite with an unfettered supply of blood) , you have to sacrifice 
 some of both your money-earning techs and your war-hungry battle units.
  
  It never gets old. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ps3king1
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jan 1, 2007 11:39 pm PT
Review:  If you love spending long hours playing games on the computer and not being bord at the same time 
 this game is for you... This game is highly addictive in every way i love the game play and how 
 you can build your empire from the cavemen era to the space age and beyond.. You can become the 
 most powerful leader the world has ever known. You can create the biggest armies and invade countries 
 to take over the world . this game is just plain fun i love it!!!! !!!! !!!! !!!!!!!!!! !!!!!! 
 !! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MichaelSoft
Rating: 9.4
Date: Apr 3, 2007 12:59 am PT
Review:  When I first played the incredible game known only as Civilization IV, I picked Ghandi as the leader 
 of my Indian nation, but one question was always stirring in my mind, even after months of addictively 
 playing Civilization IV. Mainly; Why did ghandi have a forge improvement? Ghandi was known for 
 his peaceful tactics and prime knowledge, as a genuis scholar and peaceful tacticion, so why did 
 he have a forge improvement, as he does not tolerate physicalness or aggresiveness? I for one had 
 no idea and the total idea of that one imprvement, along with many others bothered me, but ever 
 since the release of Warlords, that minor issues never bothered me since.
  
  Not only does it include better tweaks for various nations, which gives the game a whole new unique 
 feel, it also brings back previous favorites such as the Zulus, and brings up new ones such as 
 the Vikings. It also provides more unique leaders, such as Ramses II. The games main gameplay is 
 still mainly the same, exceptions are tweaks and small improvements. The detail is increased one 
 level, and the approach to gameplay is even more astounding. The campaign is every bit as good 
 as the original, and maybe even better, and the whole level of improvement is magnificent.
  
  With new and old nations alike, tweaked up races and various leaders, an additional campaign, 
 and various tweaks to the system such as the level of detail, no Civilization fan could ask for 
 a better expansion. Because of the whole new improved feel to the gameplay, fitted for fans of 
 Civilization II, and now III, this game feels more like a sequel then an expansion, but doesn't 
 quite reach the level of a whole new revolutionary game, but overall it's worth picking up if you 
 have Civilization IV.
  
  This game, as a whole, is more perferable then the original game, and rids of previous tweaks, 
 along with many add-ons that fans would like. This is definately a must have for the Civilization 
 fan, and the world. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mecheye
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 8, 2006 10:01 am PT
Review:  To start off this review, it has to be said that Civ 4 is most likely the greatest Strategy Game 
 of all time. It was new, with plenty of new feartures, culture advantages, better combat system, 
 and plenty of races. So Civ 4 was an amazing step into the future for Civilization. That said, 
 the game did lack a few things. There were a few key civs that were missing, and it had a few bugs 
 that direly needed to be fixed. The generals addition was a spark of genious, something that i 
 enjoy thoroughly each time i play. The game also seem to be a bit smarter, and much more difficult. 
 The game plays differently each time you load up a game, and that makes the game far more interesting 
 to jump into each time. Finding a game that hits all the needed ground in the Strategy world is 
 very difficult. There is incredible resource management, the unhappiness is much mroe manageable 
 in this game, and pollution is a bit more beleiveable. The graphics are pretty fantastic, though 
 they could have done a little more to the action scenes even thought they did make some improvements 
 to them in Warlords. There was a ridiculous sound bug that was finally fixed, and the game plays 
 a lot more fluent, especially with my Geforce 7950GT. I have been playing this game since the first 
 civilization graced the world, and while i was too young to understand what the game really was, 
 i never stopped playing, and when i moved on to civ2 i began to realize the greatness of this game. 
 This is a must own for any civ fans, and if you have civ 4 but dont have this expansion, do yourself 
 a favor and get your hands on it. This game is epic! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Shegevara
Rating: 9.3
Date: Nov 5, 2006 10:30 am PT
Review:  Attencione:
  
  Well, first of all, I am talking about deluxe edition. The civ4 and x-pack, so i'm packing in the 
 game speculations too.
  
  Civilization 4: the warlords (civ4, civ4tw) is an excellent installment for a gaming that you will 
 never forget. It gets so much deeper than Civ 3, that you just cant believe it. First of all-scenarios. 
 I played them much, especially the new ones. There are many kinds of scenarios for plenty hours 
 of enjoyment.
  
  Battlewarfare is so much better. There it's absolutely rare to see a spearman killed a tank and 
 so on. I reckon that idea! And new unit promotions! Plenty of them. Sound is absolutely nice. From 
 ancient times to modern. All is great. A minus is only that all of them weren't originally for 
 civ4. The main theme (as for civ4, and TW) is so beautiful, that i wait sometimes a couple of minutes 
 just to listen it.
  
  Graphics are OK. It's an great imrovement nothing to criticize, only the idea that units are 100 
 times bigger than houses is a bit f@g.
  
  This game, full of entertainment and amusement is absolutely a MUST BUY for everyone. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DaEliteCommando
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 4, 2006 4:39 am PT
Review:  I have waited for this expansion for ever. After they anounced the release of it, I imediatly got 
 it. However, it was a kind of a let down! In this expansion, the developers did NOT change alot 
 in the game, even though it needed some changes. Considering the huge change in the militaristic 
 area between Civilization 3 and Civilization 4, the expansion needed a little bit more in this 
 area. Just adding few more units and a great person (Military Leader) is not enough. On the other 
 hand, still Civilization 4: Warlords, holds the best game I have ever played, specialy in Multiplayer 
 sessions. The game is amazing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Slayer_Sam
Rating: 9.2
Date: Oct 12, 2006 6:34 am PT
Review:  Very good game, One of best war games ever played... The Good : What can I now say &amp; havent said 
 in my review on Civiliztion IV , em lets see . The same Gameplay that focusses on the same view 
 as that of Civilization IV , were this time is more attractive with 10 new leaders &amp; 6 new 
 Civilizations , so what is there that dont make u like it , it is a whole new world that is wider 
 &amp; more involving with another world wide Civilization , this expansion trully desserve it's 
 right to be along Civilization Games . Do u know thuse ugly barbarians that everyone hates ( in 
 Civ IV ) those that remind of rebels ( in Rome Total War ) , u can finally play them in this game 
 &amp; not enable them in the game option menu , so it is a lot better to spread distruction along 
 the path of ur Barbaric Nation . The Graphics are the same , with no difference at all , &amp; 
 why should there be any difference in the Graphics as long as there is nothing in the Gameplay 
 . The Sound well , it is also the same , Perfect in the Menu soundtrack &amp; great in the game's 
 world , &amp; this time the Menu's Soundtrack is in arabic language &amp; from my Country Lebanon 
 Too . Damn they know how to choose there Soundtracks !!! The Bad : With this being an expansion 
 to the older one , I brought some adjusmens to it , were the only bad thing I found is that they 
 no longer tell u how another leader feels toward u when u press his name to trade with him , if 
 u want to know ho does he feels u have to just put the mose over his picture &amp; then read , 
 I dont know if this is a bad thing it is just that I didn't like it . As to the some bugs that 
 Gamespot noticed them , well I didn't , so that means that the bugs are so few , so it would be 
 a bug hunt to find them &amp; notify the athouraties ( game developers/puleshers ) to make patches/updates 
 for the game . The graphics are the same , but I still faced the problems that I faced in the earlier 
 one , were they all will go when i put the Law Texture Resolution Option On . The Sound is also 
 sometimes annoying when moving from an area to another , or it is good , i dont know both of them 
 . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DidiCardoso
Rating: 8.3
Date: Sep 17, 2006 11:10 am PT
Review:  When a copy of Civ IV: Warlords arrived in the mail, along with CivCity: Rome, I started reading 
 the press release, fact sheet and looking at the game box, and just had to play it. It took a few 
 store trips to actually find a copy of Civ IV, and I was surprised to see that there were no new 
 copies to be seen, and a used one was still $50. Used or not, I still wanted it, so I got it.
 
  
  Warlords is the first expansion pack for Sid Meier's Civilization IV, bringing six new challenging 
 scenarios and more civilizations to the game world, each with their own specific traits, special 
 buildings and military units. But that's not all.
  
  The civilizations appearing for the first time are Carthage, Celt, Korean, Ottoman, Viking and 
 Zulu. With these civilizations come new leaders, but there are also additional leaders for existing 
 civilizations (England, Rome, Egypt and Russia) . The expansion also adds three new Leader Traits: 
 Charismatic, Imperialistic and Protective. These traits add a variety of special bonuses to your 
 civilizations, and they range from city happiness to health, to faster construction of wonders 
 or free military unit promotion.
  
  There are three new wonders available for construction: The Great Wall (which physically appears 
 around the borders of your domain and prevents barbarians from attacking cities within it) the 
 University of Sankore (which adds to research) and the Temple of Artemis (which grants a bonus 
 to trade routes) .
  
  There is even a new category of unique buildings. This means that each civilization now has a structure 
 that only they can build and that's basically an upgrade of an existing regular building. For example, 
 the Aztecs have a Sacrificial Altar that replaces the courthouse, the Egyptian replace their monuments 
 with Obelisks while the Spanish get Citadels to replace their castles.
  
  So, what about these Warlords in the title?
  
  Warlords are a promotion of a Great General, 
 which is generated according to the victories and experience that your military units accumulate. 
 Once a Great General appears in one of your cities, you can either have him build a Military Academy 
 or join the city as a Military Instructor. The real fun is in the third option: turn him into a 
 Warlord. Once you have your Warlord, you can attach him to one of your military units, and when 
 you do, he will split 20 experience points between all units in the same square. Pretty neat? Wait, 
 there's more. Let me tell you a little story about my fist Warlord.
  
  Once upon a time, there was a peaceful Egyptian civilization lead by me. This civilization was 
 the richest, the most powerful and the most advanced in the world. Its cities were well guarded. 
 So what possessed another civilization to even think of attacking, is beyond me.
  
  One day, the Japanese decided to sneak-attack one of myEgyptian cities. Treason isn't tolerated, 
 so machine guns were put on stand by and tanks, artillery and marines started gathering at the 
 borders. Oddly enough the Japanese kept sending knights in shining armor against the advanced technology, 
 surprisingly managing to defeat a few units. Lances against bullets? And it works? What the hell...
 
  
  Anyway, in this time of war, a Great General is born. This general teams up with some tanks and 
 storms Kyoto. What I hear during the attack wasn't exactly what I expected... As the tank shoots 
 in the direction of the city, the Warlord lifts his whip and screams like a maniac: AHA! WOO! MUAHAHA! 
 
  
  So there you have it, Warlords are completely crazy generals. Crazy generals that do a lot for 
 your military force with those extra experience points. Crazy generals who laugh histerically while 
 leading the troops in an attack. Crazy, or just brave? Whatever they are, they're effective and 
 hilarious while they're at it.
  
  Speaking of war, there is a new diplomatic condition: Vassal States. Vassals are enemies that you 
 have defeated and subjugated into paying you tribute. Extorsion can be a wonderful thing, since 
 you can slowly depleat other civilizations of resources, then storm them again and totally annihilate 
 them.
  
  Ok, maybe I'm not that peaceful of a leader, but hey, this is Sid Meier's Civilization... it's 
 every man or woman for themselves!
  
  Graphically, the game looks gorgeous and there is a lot of attention to detail. It's delightful 
 to see workers building improvements and then seeing those in action (I quite liked the little 
 mine carts and windmills for some reason) , fireworks above your cities when they are celebrating 
 how much they love your leadership skills, the way a new building can alter the shape of a city 
 and how everything changes with the coming of a new era. The animations are equally well done and 
 everything moves smoothly. It's worth watching military units attack each other just to see how 
 each different unit performs their attack.
  
  The sound isn't any less spectacular, starting with the classical music, which I particularly enjoy. 
 The sound effects are appropriate, be it an archer shooting arrows, people cheering, the funky 
 Elvis engineers singing or terrified screams coming from a city that is under attack.
  
  Ultimately, Civ IV: Warlords turns an already involving game into a deeper, more complex and much 
 more enjoyable experience. My quest for world domination will continue as soon as I finish writing 
 this review!
  
  Review text part of Grrlgamer. com. Full text and screens at:
  http://www. grrlgamer. com/review. php? g=civ4warlords 
::::::

::::::
UserName: keyvanreisi
Rating: 7.9
Date: Sep 6, 2006 7:34 am PT
Review:  I thing it is one of the most strange games that I have seen and it was some thing like revoloution 
 on games that I have ever seen very beauiful bachground and etc....
  but I tink generally the games sould be a littile more cheap
  ofcourse this game beacause some 
 people cant buy them
  but I know this game az one of the best games
  hmmmmm about graphic I should say that is great and I think a little more than great
  about gameplay 
 its good to but it could be better but now is nice
  and sound was also good
  and at end it was so nice to but and play 
::::::

::::::
UserName: killer3989
Rating: 7.1
Date: Aug 27, 2006 8:44 pm PT
Review:  Frankly, It's been done before, this game is mostly evolutionary, nothing new or spectacular here.
 
  If you've played any Civilization game before its basically the same as every other ever made 
 only with improved graphics different civilizations / civilization "abilities" and "streamlined 
 technologies... they claime to be streamlining it but honestly all they do is make the game more 
 about micromanagement....
  just like in ever civ game the amount of years the pass from turn to turn may get shorter but the 
 amount of time you spend on each turn increases.... exponentially....
  
  its a good game if your a civ fan or enjoy the psychology and such involving politics but other 
 than that nothing too special... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JaMeS4418
Rating: 9.4
Date: Aug 23, 2006 3:45 pm PT
Review:  For fans of civilization 4 this is an absolute must have. Warlords comes with six new civilizations 
 bringing back some of your favorites from civilization 3. It added a few more wonders, buildings, 
 and units but the real treat are the new scenarios. The scenarios are absolutely amazing and extremely 
 addicting. These scenarios are much better than the seemingly lazily made scenarios of the original 
 civ 4. The classic (it was at least for me) rise of rome scenario is back and still as fun as it 
 always was. The warlord feature is ok really just making one megaunit and i personally liked the 
 army unit in civ 3 where you loaded other units inside it. Overall this is a great game and you 
 should do whatever it takes to get this game. As addictive as the original games this is a true 
 masterpiece of gaming. If you have never played civilization you should read my review and get 
 the 4th game. BUY!!!!!!!!
  
  GRAPHICS: same as civ 4. Which is awesome
  
  SOUND: Leonard Nimoy quotes as usual
  
  VALUE: EXTREMELY HIGH
  
  REPLAYABILITY: AS HIGH 
 AS IT GETS (have you ever heard of civanon? Go to their website at www. civanon. com and you will 
 learn the tragic story of what happens when you can't get away from civilization) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tommoc
Rating: 9.6
Date: Aug 23, 2006 9:16 am PT
Review:  Great Great Great Great Great Great Great GreatGreat Great Great Great Great Great Great GreatGreat 
 Great Great Great Great Great Great GreatGreat Great Great Great Great Great Great GreatGreat Great 
 Great Great Great Great Great GreatGreat Great Great Great Great Great Great GreatGreat Great Great 
 Great Great Great Great GreatGreat Great Great Great Great Great Great GreatGreat Great Great Great 
 Great Great Great GreatGreat Great Great Great Great Great Great GreatGreat Great Great Great Great 
 Great Great GreatGreat Great Great Great Great Great Great GreatGreat Great Great Great Great Great 
 Great GreatGreat Great Great Great Great Great Great GreatGreat Great Great Great Great Great Great 
 GreatGreat Great Great Great Great Great Great GreatGreat Great Great Great Great Great Great GreatGreat 
 Great Great Great Great Great Great GreatGreat Great Great Great Great Great Great GreatGreat Great 
 Great Great Great Great Great GreatGreat Great Great Great Great Great Great GreatGreat Great Great 
 Great Great Great Great GreatGreat Great Great Great Great Great Great GreatGreat Great Great Great 
 Great Great Great GreatGreat Great Great Great Great Great Great GreatGreat Great Great Great Great 
 Great Great GreatGreat Great Great Great Great Great Great GreatGreat Great Great Great Great Great 
 Great GreatGreat Great Great Great Great Great Great GreatGreat Great Great Great Great Great Great 
 GreatGreat Great Great Great Great Great Great GreatGreat Great Great Great Great Great Great GreatGreat 
 Great Great Great Great Great Great GreatGreat Great Great Great Great Great Great Great 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DHABYANY
Rating: 8.7
Date: Aug 17, 2006 7:02 am PT
Review:  An easy game to learn if you have not played it before. It you love HISTORY, then believe me this 
 would be the best gift from YOU to your BRAIN :)
  I like this expansion pack a lot, especially the sound track from CIV 3.
  
  I am disappointed 
 from one thing though, I do not know HOW Mr. Sid did not consider adding the Muslims in Andalusia 
 (story mode) to this expansion pack, which was in CIV 3 conquests. This time period is so important 
 (we are talking about aprox. 600 to 700 years (from aprox. about 750 AD to 1490 AD) you know more.
 
  
  BUT, hopfully the next expantion pack will have more susprices. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Crater
Rating: 4.3
Date: Aug 12, 2006 10:12 pm PT
Review:  Sorry, but despite all the hype (as usual) , this is a dissapointing expansion. It just adds more, 
 but unfortunately Firaxis has proved that even they don't get that just plain *more* does not equal 
 *better*. Civ4 gameplay has gotten "busier", but the fun is reduced. The new Great General special 
 person, additional leader characteristics, additional civs... basically all just adding elements 
 but nothing compelling in terms of fun or gameplay. 
  
  Oh and that opening soundtrack for the expansion is incredibly annoying and unpleasant... sounds 
 like arabic caveman chanting or something instead of the neat (and deservedly immensely popular) 
 track they had on the original Civ4.
  
  Anyway, I played through a few games with Warlords, but now actually I'm back to plain Civ4. So 
 in effect, Warlords was a waste of money. Which actually is as good a way to describe it as any.
 
  
  Civ4 plain: wonderful, worth every cent. Warlords expansion: overrated step backwards and a waste 
 of money. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kyokozam
Rating: 9.4
Date: Aug 6, 2006 8:59 pm PT
Review:  This expansion pack is remarkable ! Sure live up to my expectation. Its throw
  in more punch and challenge. Not that easy from the custom Civ IV . Research now take more turns 
 and you will find yourself engage more in battle. Even if you try to behaviour neutral you can't 
 avoid being attack frequently . So my advice is build up a strong defense during the initial stage
 
  not to concentrate too much on upgrading , research or economy restructuring or you will face 
 the consequences of being corner . Try join force with other country if not they will gang up and 
 get rid off you first . 
  If you have a strong force you will find other trying to gain favour from you .
  So! don't be 
 the odd one out . You never know what hit you ........ BEWARE !
  Don't miss this expansion...... great game.... great stuff !! Cheers......
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: DERBEST
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 5, 2006 4:28 pm PT
Review:  What can I say? I find this Add-on very necessary, because the game is loading faster , also because 
 it fixes some problems... I have the habit of playing a custom game, at a marathon speed... what 
 I do not like is the fact that to research a certain technology takes more turns, and at the beginning 
 I wanted to throw the game out the window because I got to 300 turns to research the Alphabet... also 
 the barbarians were a pain ... I had problems with the cash... Until I finish researching the Currency 
 technology the game is very difficult, after that it becomes more bearable...
  In my opinion, this game is unforgettable... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Shatilov
Rating: 8.8
Date: Aug 3, 2006 2:18 pm PT
Review:  The Good : What can I now say & havent said in my review on Civiliztion IV , em lets see . The 
 same Gameplay that focusses on the same view as that of Civilization IV , were this time is more 
 attractive with 10 new leaders & 6 new Civilizations , so what is there that dont make u like it 
 , it is a whole new world that is wider & more involving with another world wide Civilization , 
 this expansion trully desserve it's right to be along Civilization Games . Do u know thuse ugly 
 barbarians that everyone hates ( in Civ IV ) those that remind of rebels ( in Rome Total War ) 
 , u can finally play them in this game & not enable them in the game option menu , so it is a lot 
 better to spread distruction along the path of ur Barbaric Nation . The Graphics are the same , 
 with no difference at all , & why should there be any difference in the Graphics as long as there 
 is nothing in the Gameplay . The Sound well , it is also the same , Perfect in the Menu soundtrack 
 & great in the game's world , & this time the Menu's Soundtrack is in arabic language & from my 
 Country Lebanon Too . Damn they know how to choose there Soundtracks !!! 
  
  The Bad : With this being an expansion to the older one , I brought some adjusmens to it , were 
 the only bad thing I found is that they no longer tell u how another leader feels toward u when 
 u press his name to trade with him , if u want to know ho does he feels u have to just put the 
 mose over his picture & then read , I dont know if this is a bad thing it is just that I didn't 
 like it . As to the some bugs that Gamespot noticed them , well I didn't , so that means that the 
 bugs are so few , so it would be a bug hunt to find them & notify the athouraties ( game developers/puleshers 
 ) to make patches/updates for the game . The graphics are the same , but I still faced the problems 
 that I faced in the earlier one , were they all will go when i put the Law Texture Resolution Option 
 On . The Sound is also sometimes annoying when moving from an area to another , or it is good , 
 i dont know both of them . 
  
  Note : My graphical problem is an issue that I faced in this game & the earlier one with my 6800GT 
 ( latest drivers ) . & I dont know about another people who have faced this problem ( scratches 
 along the screen , not seeying right , error problem , etc... ) . So ignore this part if u didn't 
 face a graphical problem . 
  
  As i had said before for Civilization IV , i say the same towards this Expansion ( Civilization 
 IV - Warlords ) , if u want to get it then get it since it is an expansion to the earlier one , 
 & not a newer one , but it have alot of addtitions to it , so it is great & addictive as it earlier 
 one . 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: halflingomega
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jul 31, 2006 5:21 pm PT
Review:  If you are a fan of Civilization IV, Warlords is definitely worth the money. New units, new civilizations, 
 new leaders, new buildings, new wonders, new game mechanics... need I say more? They have rebalanced 
 the civs for a better gaming experience as well. 
  
  Possibly the best addition, however, is the new 'great leader' who can give you just the bonuses 
 you need to allow you to conquer the world (or just hold everyone else off until you get another, 
 more peaceful victory type) .
  
  Another great feature is 'vassalage'. Now, weaker civilizations can surrender without being eliminated 
 by becoming vassal states until they become powerful enough to survive on their own, or the master 
 civilization becomes weak enough for the vassal state to break free. This adds a huge new dynamic 
 to gameplay. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ETretts
Rating: 7.8
Date: Jul 31, 2006 6:24 am PT
Review:  I never actually had Civilization IV- my friend had it and let me play it. I loved it. So I wanted 
 to buy it for myself, but not for $50. So I went and bought Civilization IV Warlords and installed 
 it after installing my friends onto my computer. I hadn't played Civilization IV long, but I couldn't 
 tell a difference between the original and the expansion, other than a "Great General" can give 
 units free promotions. Hello! So can a cheat! So I still thought that, "who cares, Civilization 
 IV is fun, even without the expansion." Wrong. I spent like five hours until I beat the game, and 
 sadly, I just don't have the will to want to play again and start over. I tried, and it just takes 
 too darn long to get good enough military units to take over people. The only time I play is when 
 I see my brother playing. I'll kick him off and play for two hours, and then realise, wow, that 
 was no fun at all. But I'll keep the game because I figure I'll want to play in the near future. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: woody4077
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jul 31, 2006 4:01 am PT
Review:  Civilization Warlords is the expansion to Civilization 4 which is pretty much the universal PC 
 game of the year for 2005. With the term expansion you expect the game to expand and you would 
 be right it does expand the game but not much. The core gameplay sees the least amount of changes, (gameplay 
 n. style of playing a game or manner in which a game is played) , it's the other things that expand. 
 To begin with three new wonders; the one thats gotten most of the "pre"-release hype is the Great 
 Wall which does everything you'd think; but there are two other wonder introduced; the Temple of 
 Artemis and the University of Sankore. 
  
  The Temple of Artemis functions like a kind of "super" temple, however the University of Sankore 
 pretty much makes your religious buildings into seminary schools with added resarch per turn. The 
 new wonders are not the only inclusion in the pack; the item with the biggest reprecussions is 
 the new great general, which appears after enough combat. It can be used in three ways: first as 
 a warlord to direct a unit (s) , second to construct an academy in a city, and 3 to be a general 
 in a city and add exp to new units. 
  
  Among the new items are two units Trireme, a kind of upgraded galley, and Trebuchet, think upgraded 
 catapult. The cities themselves have changed there are now new buildings, each civilization in 
 the game can now build a unqiue building for their civilization that grants benefits to the civilization 
 that builds it. 
  Also, new is the Stable building which adds exp to new mounted units and the Monument which replaces 
 the Obelisk building from civilization 4, the Obelisk is now the unqiue building for Egypt. 
  New leaders join the exsisting civilizations England gets Winston Churchill, Rome gets Augustus 
 Caesar, Egypt gets Ramesses II and Russia gets Stalin. There also three new 
  leader traits: Protective, Imperialistic, and Protective. 
  Which brings me to the brand new 
 civilizations that 
  "join the fray"; in order they are: 
  
  Carthage 
  leader Hannibal 
  unit Numidian Cavalry 
  building Cothon (replaces the harbor building) 
 
  
  Celts 
  leader Brennus 
  unit Gallic Warrior 
  building Dun (replaces the wall building) 
  
  Korea 
  leader Wang Kon 
  unit Hwacha 
 
  building Seowon (replaces the university building) 
  
  the Vikings 
  leader Ragnar 
  unit Berserker 
  building Trading post (replaces the lighthouse building) 
  
  the Zulu 
 
  leader Shaka 
  unit Smpi 
  building Ikhanda (replaces the barracks building) 
  
  Finally new scenarios, unifiying China, Alexander, Rome, the Vikings, Genghis Khan, Omens (ficitional) , 
 and Barbarians (fictional) . 
  
  In all this is a worthy addition to (not only) the civilization 4 game, but the civilization franchise 
 in general. If you don't have Civilization 4 Warlords pick it up and if you don't have Civilization 
 4 pick them both up they are by far among the best games you can own.
  
  A 9.6 out of 10!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KellyMc26
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jul 27, 2006 8:39 am PT
Review:  Most reviews you are going to read in these early days won't have spent enough time with the game 
 (or at the right settings) to get at the real gem of this expansion: Vassals. Basically, if you've 
 been able to dictate Civ 4 via a series of calculated 1 v. 1s (and find that a bit too easy or 
 boring) , then try these settings in Warlords:
  
  Balanced map, standard size (or larger if you are into big games that take days to complete) , aggressive 
 AIs, and --this is important -- at least 2 or 3 civs more than the minimum for the map size. On 
 standard, try 9 or 10 civs, for instance. Larger maps could take more, of course. I play on Prince 
 level.
  
  What this does is setup the right conditions for the new vassal system to really engage. If not 
 in every game, certainly in most games under these conditions you will find yourself in some truly 
 epic battles with all kinds of change of fortune. You'll be alternatively loving and hating other 
 civs as you all eventually become tangled in a great global mess where Master and Vassal (s) develop 
 a kind of inertia that is far greater than the sum of their parts. 
  
  And vassals aren't just an easy way to mop up the end game (as Gamespot suggests) . For instance, 
 you can tell your vassal what to research, which opens the strategic possibility of having your 
 own customized tech trading partner. Vassals will also help you in wars. But both of these suggest 
 that your vassal is healthy enough to be of any use. So do you gift your vassal a lot of tech so 
 it can actually research something you need? Do you build up the vassal in other ways so that if 
 war comes, it can actually help you? Then again, if the vassal breaks from you (because you aren't 
 protecting it well enough) , you could have just raised a bitter enemy bent on total revenge. Again, 
 you need enough civs close enough to each other for all this to really have significant meaning 
 early enough in the game... or, yeah, a few end game vassals might seem like little more than a 
 way to save yourself a headache (which is great, too!) .
  
  To me, this represents a fundamental move forward in how the war aspects of Civ behave... and it's 
 long overdue!
  
  Of course, if you don't like this kind of cut-throat game (maybe you enjoy peaceful builder games 
 with relatively empty or isolated maps so you can grow confidently) , then the vassal system might 
 not often kick in to the degree I'm describing. At that point, ask yourself if you enjoy interesting 
 scenarios? If so, Warlords is full of them. Also ask if you just want more quality content (new 
 civs, traits, great generals, wonders, unique buildings, etc.) . If so, Warlords is a safe bet. 
 
  
  Overall, if you've been enjoying Civ 4, Warlords is almost certain to add to your enjoyment. Whether 
 or not you'll find it worth $30 depends on what you are expecting to find, and hopefully my and 
 other reviews will help.
  
  --Yin 
::::::

::::::
UserName: el_daemon
Rating: 7
Date: Jul 27, 2006 8:02 am PT
Review:  ive been playng the franchise for years now. In the begining was new, fun and deep. But years pass 
 and all i see is the same game over and over. Few useless aditions and so much buzz around them. 
 More Pc requirements than the real needed, and a price tag now worthy of just a mod and some scenarios.
 
  I belive that the main talent of Firaxis was Brian Reynolds (Civ 2, Alpha Centauri, Rise of ...) 
 Im sticking to more advanced strategy games, more fullfiling and realistic or more imaginative.
 
  Try HOI2 Doomsday (or any Paradox game) , or Galactic Civilizations 2 (or indy game) or return 
 to Alpha Centauri (and classics) . There are more budget games out there with more content than 
 just a scenario on Ghengis Khan.
  Just worthy if you are a real fan, like i was. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Torbian02
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jul 26, 2006 2:50 pm PT
Review:  As far as new stuff goes, Civilization IV Warlords has a good amount of it. But along with that, 
 comes a couple of bugs. Which of course should be fixed with a patch sooner or later. If you own 
 the original, then purchasing this guy is a no brainer, don't let those small bugs scare you, it 
 was just a little rushed, cause I already caught a few typos in the booklet already. As far as 
 the bugs that are in the game, just a couple of graphic's issues that I noticed, like black marks 
 and a dissappering mini map... turns all black. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
