-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Civilization IV: Beyond the Sword
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/strategy/civilizationivbeyondthesword/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 New and enhanced features add to the core game.
 Plenty of extra mod content.
 Additional game options add even more ways to customize your game exactly as you like it.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Interface remains somewhat cluttered and not always clear.
 New espionage feature doesn't work all that well.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Jul 25, 2007
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8.5
Critic Score: 8.6, 30 Review (s)
User Score: 8.6, 2,047 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: 2K Games
Developer: Firaxis Games
Genre: Historic Turn-Based...
Date:     Jul 23, 2007 &raquo;  
ESRB: Everyone 10+

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Beyond the Sword is a great expansion pack with a lot to offer for Civ fans. 

  There's a reason why the Civilization series is one of the oldest and most beloved strategy game 
 dynasties you can find on computers today. The addictive turn-based games draw on real-world history 
 and offer open-ended gameplay that lets you conquer the world as a warlord, diplomat, or scientist. 
 They also have a disturbing tendency to keep you up late into the night taking "just one more turn." 
 Civilization IV was an award-winning new chapter in the series in 2005, and last year's Warlords 
 expansion pack helped make a good thing even better. And now, the Beyond the Sword expansion brings 
 even more improvements to a solid foundation. The new game adds plenty of features that breathe 
 new life into the core Civilization gameplay, and also tosses in lots of new content in the form 
 of new modifications ("mods") and custom scenarios to play through. Not all of the expansion's 
 additions are clear-cut improvements, but if you're a Civ fan, you'll find that Beyond the Sword 
 will give you plenty of reasons to get hooked all over again.  

           This great expansion pack brings back The Great Emancipator with new traits and abilities. 

  The core game of Civilization IV starts you out with a national world leader who possesses a few 
 advantageous "traits" in various specializations (military, scientific, economic, or cultural) 
 and starts you off at a specific era in history to conquer the world through force, science, economy, 
 or culture. Beyond the Sword adds new world leaders to play as, as well as new leader traits that 
 help expand certain strategies, such as the "protective" trait, whose defensive properties aid 
 players who seek to conquer the world using scientific research to win the space race, and the 
 "imperialistic" trait, which greatly speeds the production of "settler" units that can be used 
 to stake new claims in uncharted territory by building new cities.  

  The expansion also offers new options to create customized games to your liking, such as the handy 
 "advanced game" mode, which starts you in a game about 10 turns in, unmolested. This helps get 
 you into the game's truly interesting action (beyond just building your first city) faster. You 
 can also opt to use the expansion's new events system, which randomly triggers various events that 
 take place throughout the game. Many of these events aren't all that important, but some can have 
 farther-reaching consequences, such as changing your standing with a rival nation. If nothing else, 
 they add some welcome variety to the usual turn-based Civilization pace, and they can be toggled 
 off if you don't care to use them in a custom game.  

  Beyond the Sword's more significant in-game features are espionage and corporations, which are 
 interesting additions that bring even more variety to the game, though they aren't always practical 
 or all that useful. Corporations essentially act like late-game religions; that is, just like with 
 Civ IV's original religion system that let you spread religion from city to city, the expansion's 
 corporations can spread around the world -- though in this case, they focus on various economic specialties 
 like cereal mills, mining companies, or even a chain of sushi restaurants. When used properly, 
 they can provide powerful economic advantages, but they're balanced out by their substantial maintenance 
 costs, even though these can only be accessed much later in the game.  

  Espionage, on the other hand, doesn't figure quite as prominently into the average game of Civ 
 IV. This new feature was supposed to give you exciting new options with the new spy units, which 
 can scout out other nations and perform undercover operations like gathering additional info on 
 your rivals or stealing their technologies. Unfortunately, spies don't provide enough advantages 
 to justify constantly pumping them out and sending them to the four corners of the world, since 
 they frequently get discovered and captured before they can even get to enemy territory. In many 
 cases, you may find yourself just skipping out on the turns it would take you to research espionage 
 improvements to focus on your scientific research or military might. Fortunately, the expansion 
 offers plenty of other accoutrements for the game's core strategies, including a fistful of new 
 units, new combat tweaks to better balance siege combat, and an expanded space-race game for technophiles 
 that makes a space-race victory not just a matter of who builds a shuttle first, but who builds 
 the best and fastest one.  

           Among other things, the expansion adds espionage, corporations, and in-game events.   
    

  If that weren't enough, Beyond the Sword also packs in six new one-off scenarios plus five playable 
 mods created by both in-house Firaxis developers and the fan community. Not all of the content 
 is stellar -- some, like the futuristic zombie-hunting scenario "Afterworld," don't quite hold up, 
 though others, like the epic "Rhye's and Fall of Civilizations" fan-created mod, are excellent 
 and provide a fresh new coat of paint to the core Civilization gameplay. Even though some of the 
 mod content has been available publicly for some time, it's definitely convenient to have everything 
 wrapped up in one place, and all the extra content will keep you busy for a good, long while -- as 
 you'd probably expect from the second expansion pack to a game that's infamous for stealing your 
 free time.  

  Beyond the Sword's additions are primarily to Civ IV's core gameplay, so the expansion doesn't 
 make a huge leap forward in terms of graphics or sound. But that's just fine, since the game's 
 thematic, instrumental score continues to work well with the game, and the new graphics (in the 
 form of new mod units and movies, as well as new leaders with new animations) fit into the game 
 without a hitch. Unfortunately, Beyond the Sword doesn't address the somewhat cluttered interface 
 that Civ IV had; in fact, it adds a bit more clutter with the event system, which pops up windows 
 in the upper-right corner and logs them in a scrolling box at the top-center of your screen. Some 
 of the clutter may still seem intimidating to beginners, but this expansion isn't necessarily for 
 people who have never played Civ. And if you have, you shouldn't have many problems picking up 
 the nuances of the interface, and you'll probably be too busy trying out all the new gameplay features 
 that fundamentally change, and in some cases, revitalize, an already-classic game. Though not all 
 of the additions in the expansion are perfect, there's plenty of new stuff in Beyond the Sword 
 for Civ fans to play with, and plenty of reasons to dive back into the game and start taking "just 
 one more turn" all over again.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (46 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: CountDrugular
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 25, 2009 12:26 pm PT
Review:  I will start off by saying this expansion adds more depth to the game and makes up for the mistakes 
 that were made in the launch of Civ 4, since then they have added two expansions to the series 
 and they both have there advantages the main thing about these expansions is they have decent Multiplay 
 Hotseat option that you can tailor to your needs tho its does not have such an indepth ruler generation 
 as Galactic Civ2 that i would like to see but its still good and a very enjoyable game that has 
 alot of replay value especialy when you only have one Pc and want to multiplay with friends :) 
 too many games go the internet or Lan base multiplay these days more focus should be on the old 
 sytle Hotseat type games call me old fashioned but i think they give a better multiplay experience 
 rather then having 5 computers in a small room trying to play the same game but enough bout the 
 Hotseat mode i love so much.
  
  As for game play a few tweaks in the tech structure have been made which give a few cool new things 
 to build but generaly its the same as Civ 4 with a few new Leaders ,Units, Maps and buildings what 
 you would expect from any add on you would buy. I give a rating of 8 for its sheer Replayability 
 worth buying if you have Civ 4 and wasn't impressed, this add on with the warlords expansion really 
 adds alot to a game that was such a dissapointment when first released.
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: medwayman
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 12, 2009 11:10 am PT
Review:  - MOST IMPORTANT: This expansion includes all the content from the Warlords expansion except for 
 the Scenarios. Not knowing this nearly cost me an extra few bucks when I actually settled to buy.
 
  
  - Unique buildings, new leader traits, new civs, and new leaders add new life and complexity to 
 civ selection.
  
  - Random events are back at long last! Some very interesting, challenging, and rewarding "quest" 
 events such as "build X # of swordsmen in Y time. If successful, all receive free promotion".
 
  
  - Espionage gets a much needed face lift. Its actually much more useful now, though the "Great 
 Spy" feels like a waste of a Great Person.
  
  - Warlord Great Person is still awesome.
  
  - New wonders and projects to prove your civ is superior to all others.
  
  - Mounted units 
 need their own "barracks" now (stable) which is somewhat annoying.
  
  - Custom games can allow you to put any leader with any civ. An excellent feature given the new 
 depth unique buildings bring to the experience
  
  OVERALL: A very satisfying expansion to the original Civ4 and well worth the money. Those who are 
 "into" Civ, typically keep coming back to the title over time, but this expansion will breathe 
 whole new life into the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lager7
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 28, 2008 2:06 pm PT
Review:  Lots of fun. A little watered down when compared to the full game but still feels like a Civ game.
 
  
  Generally speaking the Civ games available to the PC are much better and certainly more detailed, 
 however, this one still seems to become addictive and is fun to play. The shorter game length actually 
 makes it quite suitable to the console and for this reason is easier to play a game end to end 
 when you need a break. Previous Civ releases demanded a lot more dedication.
  
  It is great to see this genre of game become available to the PS3, I hope to see more of them. 
 At first I was a little wary of strategy games like this on the PS3 and initially I thought that 
 without a mouse the interaction might become a little restrictive. This game seems to suit the 
 controller quite well and plays very intuitively.
  
  The difficulty is just about right too with the easy settings allowing you to experience the pleasure 
 of crushing your enemies with far superior technology whereas the harder levels provide quite a 
 challenging game experience. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: yinne06
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 21, 2008 4:51 am PT
Review:  Civilization 4: Beyond the Sword
  
  Enough said really....
  
  I really love the way every game turns out differently, no-one can say this game is boring. Though 
 i think the world map needs changing in some areas, like the changing of peaks to hills in some 
 areas to make the game more interesting.
  
  I think they should have definitely done another civ 4 expansion before working on civ 5. Actually 
 i think civ 5 will be more or less the same as civ 4, but with different units and technologies.
 
  
  civ4 bts plays like a totally different game to civ4 and warlords and definitely worth the money 
 my brother payed for it.
  
  All in all, a fantastic game and definitely my favourite game at the moment.
  
  I definitely 
 need a good mod that allows me to play with more than 18 civs on world map. 18 civs starts to get 
 quite boring after so many times playing it through and winning conquest victories. I found PYSXs 
 Modern world mod but it didn't really work at the end of the game coz it found a 'fatal error' 
 around turn 200... Damn... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: odechant
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 3, 2008 8:45 am PT
Review:  Considering how much fun I have playing the original Civ4 it is no wounder I felt the need to expand 
 via this excellent expansion package. There is nothing wrong here, everything is an improvement. 
 
  
  Some people have disparaged the new spy system, but I feel that it works great and really adds 
 an extra dimension in terms of what you are going to favor, science research, spying, or economy. 
 Basically you gain a deeper diplomatic experience. The corporation could be more detailed in terms 
 of what type and how pervasive, there could have been options discerning exactly how competitive 
 the company will be and the ethics of the management. 
  
  There had been denigration with some people seeming to feel that there is no new content, this 
 is obviously not so as soon as you start the game, in some ways nothing is the same. The graphics 
 could have been updated, especially in city view. It would be really nice to be able to look closely 
 at the wonders and improvements you have built in 3D.
  
  If you like Civ4 you like Civ4BtS. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: macmert
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 22, 2008 1:26 am PT
Review:  This game is THE best turn based strategy in history... You get to rewrite history with one of 
 the major civilizations in history, now with the new enhanced spy system...
  
  The game itself is awesome, along with warlords expansion and beyond the sword expansion, the game 
 gets even better... 
  
  For newcomes to this game, I will summorize the game briefly... You get to choose a civilization 
 and start writing history in a turn based world... Research, build wonders like pyramids, the great 
 wall or hanging gardens and try to conquer the world anyway you like, finish all other civilizations 
 through sword, diplomacy or culture... 
  
  For the expansion, at last the spies are more comlex and espionage is available... Now you can 
 produce spies right after you discover alphabet and believe me if you play your cards right, they 
 can be devastating... They have the ability to get into other civs' cities and perform various 
 tasks, like poisoning the water supply of the city, creating unhappines, sabotage buildings, sabotage 
 production and of course steal technology...
  
  There is also one more enhancement to the game, the espionage points, very much like the culture 
 and research points... You can adjust the espionage points so your spies can perform the tasks 
 mentioned above... also the espionage points can unlock certain passive enhancements like monitoring 
 the research of rival civ, being able to see what units the other civs build in each city and such...
 
  
  Also there are new wonders, new research available...
  
  All in all, if you like a good turn based strategy and you didnt even try this game, give it a 
 try, it is a classic a must have for all the turn based strategy fans...
  
  If you already played civ4 and liked it, I assume you already got this expansion and played it 
 :D...
  
  Buy it, try it, play it, you will spend countless hours in front of the PC...
  
  Just... one... more... turn :D 
::::::

::::::
UserName: OpratorHunter
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 15, 2008 7:15 am PT
Review:  Civilization IV Beyond the Sword (BtS) is an expansion pack that adds features to the original 
 game. It includes more civilizations, units, leaders, settings, scenarios and features. Most of 
 these work out great.
  Some new content includes: Special war units, which are units you can get only if you use a specific 
 Civilization. Greater espionage features, allow you to spy at a higher degree then the first game. 
 New leaders, each one with different traits depending on what you want from the game, (Hello Mr. 
 President Lincoln) and then there are corporate features for the big business. Corporate features 
 are disappointing as I have never really used them because of there low value.
  Scenarios are features that allow you to be placed in a customized game. Some of these are science 
 fiction scenarios, some are ancient war scenarios. Each one is a good addition and can be fun if 
 you're in the mood to try something different.
  It's a good game, but some of the content is really not needed whether you like it or not. I enjoy 
 new units like the buccaneer units which are units that can attack any nation while keeping it's 
 nationality a secret. But other units really aren't needed. (There is a slightly different atomic 
 bomb? Its range is shorter?)
  So the game is great and I recommend it. It's just disappointing to know, it could have been a 
 little better.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: hactorx
Rating: 6.5
Date: Sep 12, 2008 6:51 pm PT
Review:  The game is good, fun to play, a little more content. My biggest problem is there is no space age, 
 they made 2 expansions and still did not add anything really new, you have to admit this is civ3 
 redone. All hope lies in civ 5, hopefully they will add a space age in it because if the dont in 
 many ways sid civ series will be dead, simply because they fail to bring any new content. Spreading 
 corporations is nice but really is a worthless addition. Now the ability to conquer a new planet, 
 build underwater cities or space cities like CALL TO POWER allowed would make the series much more 
 alive. Also a nice feature would be to allow the player to disable global warming, which can get 
 very annoying in the late game. The lack of new technology makes the game very boring as well since 
 you only have modern armor and hellis. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pvtdonut54
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 7, 2008 6:21 pm PT
Review:  So I am guessing we have all played the original Civilization 4, right? The Beyond the Sword expansion 
 brings an already amazing game to a whole new level. It adds some much more content and it is one 
 of the best expansions to a game ever. It adds what you would expect, ( new units and buildings, 
 a few techs, and new civilizations and leaders ) but it also adds some great new ideas. For instance 
 the ability to mix and match your civilizations and leaders. Say you want the dictator Mao Zedong 
 to run the American empire, or Alexander the Great to control Rome go right ahead. Since Beyond 
 the Sword focuses mainly on modern times since the use of gunpowder, Beyond the Sword also includes 
 futuristic new scenarios, like a space exploration one. Beyond the Sword also fixes the use of 
 Spies making them even more useful and the new idea of having a corporation to spread and give 
 you more money is also great. So if you have Civilization 4 and thought about getting this or if 
 you weren't sure about getting Civilization 4 in the first place*, GET THIS and have fun.
  
  * requires the original Civilization 4 to play 
::::::

::::::
UserName: e_boulanger
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jul 10, 2008 4:01 pm PT
Review:  This expansion pack is great for Civ fan. It adds new features, new scenarios , etc..
  
  This only thing that is really disappointing is the fact that Firaxis did not try to optimize their 
 code to make it more friendly for laptops.
  
  Of all the games in my software library, it's the only one that makes my laptop runs with the fans 
 at full speed everytime (you can guess how long the battery last) . Assassin's Creed or Gears of 
 Wars are not even doing that. Firaxis programmers should go back to school because I don't see 
 how a turn based game should be that CPU and GPU intensive. I guess good, optimized programming 
 is not Firaxis strong point. It's like Railroads that is not even able to run more than 10 minutes 
 on Vista without crashing.
  
  In conclusion: 
  9 out of 10 for gameplay value
  4 out of 10 for bad programming (at least, it's not crashing) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: garrujr
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 10, 2008 11:15 am PT
Review:  I'm going to assume there's room for improvement, but this is one of the best games I've ever played.
 
  
  The only reason I'm not giving this a perfect 10 is because I hope they find a way to improve it 
 even more. The new spying portion also needs to be toned down or have it as an option, but other 
 than that, I really have nothing to complain about.
  
  If you get bored with the generic game, load up one of the mods that came with the game and it 
 totally transforms it into something new. There's a very linear sci-fi mod with just a few units. 
 There's an in-space mod with completely new rules, techs, units and graphics. Talk about a total 
 mod... it will absolutely amaze you how much detail was put into this mod. There's Fall From Heaven, 
 a mod with a strong online following. And a string of others.
  
  You abolutely can't go wrong with this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Helloiseeu
Rating: 8.5
Date: May 22, 2008 7:28 pm PT
Review:  Wow, this game expansion just totally blew me away. The game added more great features and added 
 some amazing mods which some just totally changed the game. This is probably one of the best expansion 
 I've ever played.
  
  Civ4 added many things but, one of them was the coroprations. They were a little bit of letdown 
 to me but, there still nice. They basically set up compaines all over your civilization which prosper 
 with money but, I really thought they were going to be more awesome than that. The game also added 
 new buildings, factions, and units. The factions they added were pretty sweet. I mean the Ethopian 
 and Dutch factions were really neat. And now every faction gets their own unique building. The 
 space victory is much better because you can set up your ship and wait until it gets to it's destination. 
 However, my favorite thing they added was the mods. Two of them completly changed the game. One 
 basically puts you in the future where nearly no units or buildings were the same. Also the game 
 just acts super different. The other just adds gods and other stuff to the game. All this comes 
 with this expansion!! The expansion just simply is great. However, the espionage was a little lackluster 
 to me. I mean theres spy and crap but, I was expecting more just like what I was expecting in corporations. 
 
  
  When I add everything up, if your a Civ4 fan. This is an expansion you just must buy! The game 
 packs up much more new stuff and the mods they give are just too good. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Urlacher54
Rating: 9
Date: May 20, 2008 1:33 pm PT
Review:  Seriously though, Beyond the Sword completely reinvents certain elements of Civ IV, so that ignoring 
 all the mods and stuff that come built-in (which are mostly hit-or-miss anyway) , the base game 
 is changed in enough fundamental ways that its almost like playing Civilization IV.5. 
  
  The new espionage system alone completely changes the way you might play the game, since you can 
 start spying and sabotaging your enemies as early as the Classical Era! However, since you have 
 to invest some of your income into espionage, research progress will often times get slowed down 
 a bit. I can't seem to figure out how the AI Civs are able to keep up in tech while still being 
 able to spy on me, so a little bit of rebalancing here might have helped. But then again, if it 
 bothers you that much, you can always just try to balance it yourself in the XML files.
  
  Spawning new overseas colonies that can later become full-fledged, independent Civs allows for 
 several historical scenarios to be played out that never could be before (such as American Revolution) . 
 Too bad they didn't go all out, and enable Civil Wars as a result of poor leadership by you.
  
  Corporations are an interesting modern-age replacement for religions that can radically change 
 how you grow and develop your cities and effect where you choose to expand/conquer, since you can 
 receive benefits related to how much of a resource you control. for example, Sid's Sushi Co. generates 
 extra food in a city, and the more fish, clams, and crabs you have access to, the more food it 
 creates, allowing your cities to potentially become bigger than you ever thought possible, giving 
 you more freedom to create those wonderful specialists!
  
  The space race is finally a little more balanced, as you now have to wait until the spaceship reaches 
 Alpha Centauri instead of winning as soon as it is launched. this means that if an enemy launches 
 their ship, you still have a handful of turns to try to take their capital, sabotaging the space 
 ship's remote navigation (er something like that) , causing it to go off course and be destroyed.
 
  
  And random events are a fundamental change to the game. Some are completely random, and others 
 are related to how yo uplay the game. For example, enact the slavery civic, and there will be a 
 random chance that any one of your cities might suddenly and without warning go into slave revolt. 
 Some events can reduce or increase population, some can create or destroy resources, others can 
 effect diplomatic relations even starting wars! And best of all, every random event gives you some 
 option as to how you want to deal with it, although most of them require you to have a fair sum 
 of gold saved up in you coffers to get the better outcomes. So start saving up your cash!
  
  They even finally added some new techs, and quite frankly, one of the only real flaw with BtS 
 is that these new techs don't have Leonard Nimoy reciting the tech quotes. They gave the job to 
 some lame dude who totally sucks. sorry, nothing personal, but your not Leonard Nimoy.
  
  A couple new units have been added, a couple new buildings and wonders (mostly pertaining to the 
 new espionage system) , some rule changes: forts provide units with all the benefits of cities and 
 can now act as makeshift airports and seaports (so that you can now even use them as canals up 
 to 2 tiles wide allowing you to cross naval units from one ocean to another or get around frozen 
 arctic ice; air units can now gain experience and promotions; one bad decision is that they have 
 capped the amount of damage that siege units can do so that attacking siege units are no longer 
 capable of killing enemy units but will instead retreat if the cap is reached (not really sure 
 where this decision came from, as it seems to completely break siege units) .
  
  and remember, everything I just talked about was enhancements to the REGULAR GAME. 
  
  If you 
 are a fan of Civ, then Beyond the Sword is a MUST-HAVE! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: IMgiovanna
Rating: 6
Date: May 12, 2008 5:51 pm PT
Review:  If your main Civilization IV game wasn't a problem to begin with, this expansion very well might 
 cause one. But if it doesn't, or if you manage to tweak your system enough to fix the issues, it's 
 pretty cool.
  
  For me, and my system which way surpasses the minimum required needs of the main game and this 
 add-on, this game was mostly non-stop trouble in a huge and maddening way.
  
  So for the few moments at a time that I wasn't wanting to throw my system against a wall, the game 
 was just peachy and had a lot to offer.
  
  I think they need to raise the minimum requirements by leaps and bounds, and they need to get someone 
 to manage their support team, because I couldn't get any help.
  
  When I tried removing the game from my system, it caused a full crash and I lost a lot of valuable 
 information. Truly sad indeed and a learning lesson.
  
  I will never again be playing a Civ game on a system that has information I actually need on it. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AnthonyBoscia
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 30, 2008 7:11 am PT
Review:  Expectations for an expansion pack are pretty simple. Add some units, game play elements, and maybe 
 some graphics. Beyond the Sword, however, not only adds a great amount of content, it makes Civ 
 IV better in just about every way. This is especially satisfying if you missed the first expansion 
 since all its contents (except scenarios) are in this version. 
  
  First off, you need Civilization IV to play this. A lot of game testing must have gone on, because 
 Beyond the Sword is a big improvement. Units, structures, and technologies have been tweaked to 
 give the game more balance. There are new choices and options in how you set your game up. Best 
 of all, the civs are more individually defined. Each country has its own special unit and building 
 with different advantages. They also have new unit artwork for generic units based on their regional 
 culture. These improvements go a big way to giving your civ character and making it more varied. 
 You really feel like you're playing the Incas more when their spearmen don't look like Greek phalangites. 
 
  
  The new content rocks too. The espionage expansion is great because it seamlessly is integrated 
 in the game. Don't care about it? Great, just ignore it and it will give you passive results like 
 seeing opponents' cities. Or you can use it to cripple and sabotage your enemies. The corporations 
 are a little convoluted, but they actually offer a great way to give food bonuses to big cities, 
 and culture and building bonuses to your far-flung colonies late in the game. Some content like 
 Great Generals are carried over from the last expansion and they really add a lot.
  
  In short, Beyond the Sword vastly improves the core game's play balance as well as adding fun new 
 features. Add ruthless multi-player and cool scenarios and you've got a great package. This is 
 what we expect of Civ, and it is back to just one more turn. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Beanmachine12
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 14, 2008 2:50 pm PT
Review:  An absolutely brilliant TBS, very in depth with great mods, Civs, and vehicles.
  Space mod is extremely good very addictive and worth playing. A good all around sequel to Civ 4. 
 It is a very in depth game with very addictive game play and a wide variety of appealing features, 
 such as the new mods built into the game, the user created mods are absolutely fantastic, and so 
 are the firaxis design scenario/mods, especially the final frontier mod. The space concept is absolutely 
 fantastic and very addictive. The scenarios are very in-depth and the new civilization's go well 
 with the new mods. It is highly recommendable and would recommend it to any Turn Based Strategy 
 fans.
  It is worth playing Civilization 4 first for a good few hours before moving on to Beyond the Sword 
 as it is easier to get to grips with rather than jumping straight into Beyond the Sword. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheXenolith
Rating: 6
Date: Mar 31, 2008 2:10 pm PT
Review:  Don't get me wrong, Civilization IV is a good game. Everything about it is OK except for one thing... the 
 AI. What's wrong with the AI you ask? Well, it cheats. The AI is a bloody cheater. I know some 
 of you may say that some people just suck at Civilization IV but I can't even win once on the Chieftain 
 setting if my life depended on it.
  
  For a veteran gamer to not be able to win a single round, you have to suspect something is wrong 
 with this game. Random bad things happen more often to you than the AI, especially when you are 
 doing well in the game. I don't mind a game cheating reasonably but this is like trying to get 
 through a brick wall by bashing it with your head.
  
  Another thing worth nothing is that this game is not very realistic when it comes to battles. I 
 mean come on, a crossbowman winning against a tank? Aren't nuclear missiles supposed to be able 
 to wipe out an entire city? Are you kidding me Mr. Sid?
  
  Back to the AI. Like I said before the AI is the single thing that keeps this game from getting 
 a classic status. It is essentially broken unless you play it with human players only. The most 
 you can hope for to get a taste of victory in this game when you play against the AI is to get 
 a cultural or diplomatic win but that is just boring.
  
  This is a highly overrated game. Rent it or borrow it first before you decide to spend your money 
 on this.
  
  Nice try Mr. Sid Meier. Maybe next time you can teach the AI to play fair. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: I-am-Sephiroth
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 19, 2008 3:06 am PT
Review:  This game is quite simply outstanding. It has so much to offer the gamer its unreal. Where do i 
 start....
  
  Content - Loads of content both in terms of gaming value for money and historical information. 
 It contains detailed historical information on events, wars, people, places etc.
  
  Gameplay - Deep and involving. This game will eat up your social life and spit it out, so much 
 so it has an in built alarm clock which you can set to alert you to when you need to turn the game 
 off! The gameplay is smooth and attractive.
  
  Sound - Varied sound effects/music depending upon which civilization you are and what time period 
 your in. Different accents/languages for yuo characters and accurate weapon sound effects.
  
  Lifespan - Endless. This game offers you a multitude of ways to win, maps, scenarios and countless 
 adventures. Re-write the history books how you see fit a thousand time over. I simply cannot get 
 bored of this game
  
  Overall - 9.5/10
  
  I really cant think of many things this game needs to improve it. ONe of my all time fav games. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Zythyl
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 28, 2007 2:39 pm PT
Review:  Beyond the sword, while still carrying CIV's *poor* graphics onwards, is still an immersive, addictive, 
 tim sink. 
  
  But that isn't a bad thing. The expansion pack is more like a whole new game. The ability to start 
 campaign/mods that range from the time of the Holy Roman Empire of Charlemaigne (with set rules) 
 to start a Galactic Conquest with your chosen corporation is an impressive feat for a mere expansion 
 pack. 
  
  Beyond The Sword does deliver new troops, weapons, and mods, and by doing this offers the player 
 a few extra hours -days- of playtime. This expansion may as well be a whol new game with new music, 
 models, and campaigns which offer an exciting, different, gaming experience. 
  
  Beyond The Sword is fantastic expansion the classic CIV game and is a must get for any Civ series 
 lover. The abiltity to play online or via EMAILS is also a very impressive, innovative feature.
 
  
  An immersive and well released title worthy of the Civ range. However the graphics do let it down 
 - for it's time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sNaKeyy
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 11, 2007 12:03 pm PT
Review:  Firaxis Games usually adds 1-2 expansions for every game. Last year we got Warlords, and now we 
 get this beautifully expansion pack for Civilization IV.
  First things you could notice are the new leaders and their countries. Also six new scenarios set 
 in a established era and you have to conquer everything.
  Also you'll see five new mods made in-house and by fans. They are very cool, especially the afterworld 
 and galactic one. 
  Corporations are useful, but the espionage isn't that useful. It's very complex and you could fail 
 easily, better not try it too many times. Though, the in-game events are nice additions and asks 
 you for a choice from two-tree-four.
  Finally, i have to say that the most impressive for me on this game is the Sound. Awesome music 
 as always, nothing changed. And the multiplayer can keep you like 3-4 hours without noticing how 
 much time you spent. Go buy this if you didn't already, it deserves it's money ;) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: numbersss101
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 13, 2007 6:51 am PT
Review:  Civilization 4 beyond the sword is the second expansion pack of the civilization 4 game. First 
 off THIS GAME IS HIGHLY ADDICTIVE PLEASE DO NOT PLAY IT IF YOU CAN'T HANDLE ANY OF THESE:
  A: stay up long
  B: stay up very long
  C: Failing your test and stay up very very long
  Theres 
 tons of stuff to do in this game. The final frontier mod is very cool. Even though you're just 
 gonna do the same all stuff as the normal game theres few feature that they add in this game. Like 
 the espionage thingy. Very useful if your gonna sabotage your enemy. Few leaders and civilization 
 are also added. But still if you're a civil fan like me just go ahead and buy it you dont have 
 to read this review to know how addictive it is! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: villmann
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 3, 2007 4:10 am PT
Review:  The new scenarios and mods make for exciting and sometimes challenging gameplay.
  New units, civs and leaders adds variety and longevity.
  Random events helps you immerse yourself 
 in the game and can even provide solid bonuses to your empire, making it worthwhile to complete 
 the quests set before you. If only you can remember what you were supposed to build (they should 
 have added a quest window, where you could review quests, completed and in progress, with their 
 active bonuses and so forth) .
  
  Although not all of the new features are something to be incredibly amazed by, it delivers new 
 twists and turns making CIV IV a game you will continue to play for one more turn. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: james670
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 21, 2007 1:41 pm PT
Review:  Beyond the Sword makes Civ IV even more addictive. With the added civilisations, units, buildings, 
 scenarios, and various rules tweaks (Marathon game &amp; aggressive AI are some interesting additions) , 
 I really have to agree with one of the blurbs they printed on their package: this is more like 
 Civ 4.5 than an expansion pack. And like you'd expect from any game in the Civ series just one 
 more turn rears its head all the time.
  
  The return of random events makes for some interesting games, and I like the idea of the quests. 
 Rushing out to produce stables or libraries in all your cities before you hit the Renaissance Age 
 is a interesting change of pace from playing highly specialised cities like I normally do. I'm 
 exclusively a single player, so turning on Aggressive AI means changing tactics a little bit (such 
 as building up my army a little more, a little earlier) , but the AI seems to build up armies at 
 the expense of other important activities, such as research. Perhaps the aggressive AI needs a 
 little tweaking. Still, this 4.5 upgrade is a huge improvement to the game. It definitely shows 
 how the rebooted Civ IV is now maturing and becoming more developed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Baer
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 27, 2007 4:27 pm PT
Review:  I had not playes Civ IV in a few months but when I bought BtS on a whim and installed it I ended 
 up hooked all over again. First of all it makes the game fully Vista compatable.
  The new leaders, the random events as well as a faster (seemingly) A I all add to the experience. 
 Every few minutes I find something that is new or done better. The graphics are fast and the rival 
 leaders really make you like them or hate them and back again every hour or so.
  If you like the Civ series this expansion is for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PCgamer4000BC
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 24, 2007 10:04 am PT
Review:  First of all, I would like to say that I skipped the Warlords Expansion, and BtS comes with all 
 the Warlords features (minus the scenarios) . So I was overloaded with two expansions in one. (if 
 YOU missed Warlords, get BtS. Its like 2 expansions in one.)
  
  So anyways.....
  
  Going from vanilla to BtS gives you TONS of new content. Best part is spies. BtS is essentianoly 
 loaded with more peaceful content, and spies let you wage a mini-war in peacetime. How it works 
 is you can alocate a percentige of your income to spying, and you can then alocate how much spy 
 gold is alocated to which civilizations. Not only can you spend said gold on stealing techs and 
 poisoning water and such, but if you are a certain level of espianoge above him, you atomatically 
 see in all his cities and can see what he is reasearching. Realy cool.
  
  Apistolic Palace is also realy awsome, basicaly UN in early stages of game. Another great thing 
 is the new charictaristics the new leaders have. My favorite combo is George Washington, who gives 
 extra happiness AND health, so you can automaticaly grow your cities a couple of sizes larger than 
 everyone else. My favorite new unit is Mongols new cavalry unit that ignores terrain moving impediments. 
 So those are my favorite additions, but there is too much in this X-pack to name here. PS I must 
 mention the Scenarios. The road to war one is my favorite. They are all very well done. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RLJSlick
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 23, 2007 12:06 pm PT
Review:  Civilization along with Sim City is one of my favorite franchise games, so its always a delight 
 to see an add-on to those great series. Civilization 2 truly outdid itself when it came out, there 
 was so much renewed in the game that it back a instant classic for me, something that I will be 
 playing until. well until Civilization 3 comes out I guess. Beyond the Sword brings a lot of great 
 little things to the game that you didnt see in the original or Warlords. Now you have much more 
 of a spy network that allows you to snoop around your enemy homeland and do you your worst to it 
 if you like. Though I enjoy that part of the game, I have to admit I think its a bit overdone 
 and by the end of the game I was getting pretty bored with it. I think that it may need to be tone 
 down a bit, and not play such a large part in this society. You also have better diplomat choices, 
 though not nearly as much as I was hoping for; there are also a few new technologies to work forward 
 towards, so new that there is a new voice calling them out for us after completion, not the voice 
 of Leonard Nimoy. There is also a few modded games that you can also play. Though I normally dont 
 bother with these, they really are pretty well done and worth try out.
  One thing that drives me nuts is, now your towns that are close to a allied civilization will, 
 every 20 turns or so, ask if they can switch over to them. Like that would really happen. Even 
 if your town is doing great! There seems to be no way to turn that off.
  Overall a very decent add-on, with a few new features that will make you wanting to play it over 
 and over. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Shegevara
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 22, 2007 4:13 am PT
Review:  Ok, first to mention. I'm quite a n00b in the game. I can win the warlord difficulty, and though 
 I believe, that this suits veteran players, it still brings fun play for beginners. From scenarios, 
 i absolutely enjoyed the final frontier scenario. It's so space and with all those 'space things' 
 on map and interface it really sucks you in. Though I find it alot easier than normal costum game, 
 you can always switch to deity LOL. Anyways, it's worth looking scenario.
  
  As for corporations, i liked great artists corporation (dunno the name) . It's hard to make it worth, 
 but if you put alot of effort on it, it's worth it. Random events are like WOW. There are so much 
 of them, bad news and good news, they don't push you to defeat or to win, but they can bring you 
 anger or joy in a small package. Quests are interesting too.
  
  I won't say much about espionage. I use spies seldom, but when I do, i use them for like a small 
 sabotage or treasure stealing. And as for the new leaders, wonders, civilisations, they bring you 
 new possibilities, replay value and longer entertainment. I think, no matter what you are, n00b 
 or professional, this x-pack is absolutely a must-buy for any civilization player. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Iranian_Guy
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 15, 2007 9:52 am PT
Review:  there are now events and quests in the game and will affect your progress in game and makes you 
 feel you are in a living world. a lot of units factions and leaders have been added to game  
 empire. holy roman empire and...) . beside espionage missions and corporations. new gameplay elements 
 are amazing but why do they satirize great leaders and their people? I have no problem with black 
 and African people but darius I was a great persian emperor and commander and they created him 
 a skinny african young man why? why do they create Iranians black and barbaric in all games? I don't 
 mean insult to black people. all men are brothers and sisters. it's an amazing game overall. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: r4v3gl0ry
Rating: 9.7
Date: Aug 14, 2007 6:14 pm PT
Review:  Civilization 4 was the biggest stragety/simulation game that came out (to me) . Its expansion, Beyond 
 the Sword, is the biggest expansion ever... and I mean EVER.
  
  Game Play ~ I'm just going to make this review not too long, yet not too short. The *important* 
 new features of this game is espionage, corporations, tons of ew civilizations ansd rulers, and 
 11 new buildings, wrapped up neatly with even more mods. It's uh.... It's really that big, and only 
 for $30.00. Personally, and un-review-wise, I think it's a bit too in-depth, but remember my review 
 deck? Well, I myself don't understand all of the game's aspects, with all of the Great People and 
 new mods, but I daresay tha all I ever need to do is.... simply have fun. See, the positive thing 
 about this game is that you don't need to be a hardcore gamer (who will read the entire instruction 
 booklet and go through the original game's tutorial in one whole day) to have A LOT of fun. Exploring 
 the world and conquering it up to the space age and the future has never been this fun. Heck, even 
 looking at the civilization-selection before each game will make you laugh like a mad ork.
  
  For all of you who have never played the original game, I'm not here to give you a tutorial, 
 but I'll tell you what this game is about: conquering the world, researching for religions, and 
 researching for the big tech tree from before the Ice Age to beyond the space age. Research after 
 research, and city after city (which you will establish) , you will enjoy the game, whether you 
 realize it two hours after you finish a game or not.
  
  Graphics ~ I'm a bit disappointed about the graphics up close. It's a new expansion, it should 
 be called Civ 4.5, and yet, zoomed-in charcters look a bit pixel-bloated. Sound ~ The soundtrack 
 for Civ 4 has made the game famous, and this expansion's music really sets the mood for conquering, 
 fearing, and for covering up our boredom at different times of the day, though this game will keep 
 you not-bored....
  
  Overall ~ I got nothin'. Just get the game. But I warn you, it's soooooooooo addictive!~!~!~! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Visitor_basic
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 9, 2007 1:09 pm PT
Review:  What do you want a full review? Well, don't cross your fingers for luck because you won't be getting 
 one. Okay, the latest patches were put into the game except for the patch for Beyond the Sword. 
 Hey, who's the marketing genius who designed putting 2 CD's on one spindle in the box? You're fired!
 
  Hey dad, can you help me get this one CD off this spindle because I can only seem to grab both 
 CD's! Well, yes son, it seems that I can not get only 1 CD off of this spindle either! Well, dad, 
 it seems that if we ever get to play this game, the computer may end up being smarter than the 
 human that designed the plastic to hold the CD's. You're fired! Now, on with the game. There is 
 more in the game now, so it still is a silly game. I played a few turns so go out and get it so 
 you can play a few turns also. I started up the Final Frontier game, and it seems to be different, 
 as in Out in Space. I am sure the new technology tree will be interesting along with that game. 
 I decided to start the game over because I could not decide which Opening Movie that I wanted to 
 watch starting the game, over and over again. Actually I saw no difference between the Beyond the 
 Sword opening or between the BtS Classical opening? Maybe I will have to look at it again and start 
 the game up again. Now with any of that, if I have any more time to tell you about the game then 
 I will now do that. Oops! Out of Time. I suggest the Quick Game, for a change in endeavors of relating 
 to a silly computer game that probably will beat your brain up.! Goodday! Time to Play!
  Bye! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: medic4hire
Rating: 8.1
Date: Aug 6, 2007 8:10 pm PT
Review:  Lets face it, if you like Civilization IV, you will love this add-on. Now the main gameplay isn't 
 changed much, but it is the total conversions that add the value. Whether you wish to play WWII 
 scenarios or futuristic scenarios, this game has the content you are looking for. The Civilization 
 serious is well renowned, no doubt. This expansion will quench your thirst until Civilization V 
 is released, should it ever happen. It is amazing that in todays age we can have a game that is 
 both fun and educational. Don't bother reviewing the screen shots, just go ahead and get this game. 
 It is worth every penny. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: magicaldropking
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jul 31, 2007 12:27 am PT
Review:  For starters, I'll have to say I disagree with those who say this expansion doesn't impact the 
 core game very much. In my opinion, this is far and away a bigger improvement over an already outstanding 
 game than the Warlords expansion was.
  
  Jumping into what's new:
  
  -Espionage. Nice that a new wrinkle was thrown in, but honestly seems like just another hassle. 
 This new feature is the only one that actually detracts from my experience.
  
  -Corporations. Functions much the same as religion. Won't blow you away, but its a nice little 
 underlying flavor to the main game.
  
  -New units. The airship gets you into the flight game before actually developing the Flight tech 
 and some of the new modern units, like the mobile artillery, are nice touches, but the star of 
 the show is the Privateer. More on that to follow.
  
  -New leaders and Civs. Nothing special, but more variety = more gooder.
  
  as for improvements 
 to existing systems..
  
  -Space race. Not the overall that the back of the box claims it to be, but at least not as linear 
 as it was.
  
  -Religion. The Apostolic Palace functions like a sort of proto-UN and adds a bit more importance 
 to your religious planning. A positive addition.
  
  -UN. The option to openly defy UN Resolutions is both a needed, yet sometimes frustrating change.
 
  
  -Naval. Ahh.. this is what made the expansion for me. The naval game has been vastly improved, 
 and it took so little to do it. In addition to adding more varied and specialized naval units, 
 also added was a  Blockade function. A ship that is blockading 
 will remain stationary, but disrupt all ocean trade in its immediate vicinity. Its a very effective 
 way to put a stranglehold on a city and make a little pocket change on the side doing so. It also 
 FINALLY gives your naval units a purpose other than just bombarding, especially on land-intensive 
 maps. Also added are Privateer units. These medium powered, but fast wooden ships do not fly a 
 flag of nationality, so they can be used to harass, blockade and even sink other ships, even in 
 peacetime!
  
  It has more ups than downs, and definately added more polish and a fresh coat of paint to an already 
 nice ride. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pabvr81
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jul 27, 2007 3:03 pm PT
Review:  Civilization IV: Beyond the Sword is the second expansion pack for the best strategy game of all 
 time. It's also the biggest expansion in all of the Civilization series. You get great new features 
 such as corporations, espionage, improved forts, new techs, new units, new leaders and 10 new civilizations. 
 Among these new civilizations you have some old favorites coming back such as the Dutch and the 
 Maya. The new civs are also interesting, such as the Khmer and the Portuguese. There are also new 
 scenarios and mods such as Fall from Heaven, Afterworld, etc. Final Frontier is also an interesting 
 mode, where you command your civilization in outer space! For those who play the epic game, the 
 new concepts will make your game experience a completely new and interesting one. Spreading corporations, 
 and espionage are the main additions. Espionage is a bit broken, but nothing a patch can't solved. 
 The game is definetly not for newcomers because of its steep learning curve, but veterans of the 
 other Civilization games will find it quite challenging, since the AI has been improved and now 
 the game seems to be a bit harder than Warlords.
  This expansion is a great addition to the Civilization game series and I really think it's worth 
 every dime you pay for it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: saaoba
Rating: 5.8
Date: Jul 27, 2007 4:54 am PT
Review:  Let me start by stating that my expectations were hight for Beyond the Sword. The promise of more 
 modern units, improved espionage, corporations, random events, and exciting scenarios got my hopes 
 up and, let me say, it delivered. The expansion pack also comes with the usual package of extra 
 civilizations (including the Babylonians, Byzantines, Dutch, Ethiopian, Holy Roman, Khmer, and 
 Myan Empires) , improvements from Warlords (Generals, Traits) , technologies, and gameplay improvements 
 (improved air, sea, and siege combat) . In conclusion, there is a lot to be said.
  
  As previously stated there is the addition of new scenarios. Beyond the Sword comes shipped with 
 eleven exciting and creative scenarios. Three really caught my eye. There is a space age game almost 
 similar to that of Galactic Civilizations II, a game set in the far future (with future tech units 
 you can play with in the normal game) , and three player created mods that managed to find their 
 way on the CD: Rhye's and Fall, Fall from Heaven, and a WWII: Road to War scenario. They are all 
 great additions and could certainly have been packaged as an expansion pack on their own.
  
  I accidentally stayed up for hours playing this new expansion, you probably will too. I urge 
 any civ fan to go out and give this expansion a shot 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Harrr53
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jul 27, 2007 2:49 am PT
Review:  When I got Warlords, I thought it was a good expansion pack. I wouldn't throw away any of its additions 
 to the core game, but at the same time, about an hour into a game and after the initial excitement 
 you realise you are essentially playing the same game. Fine, that same game is a brilliant one, 
 but the expansion is probably not worth its initial price tag.
  
  Beyond the Sword has convinced me otherwise. The proof is that trying to play a vanilla Civ4 game 
 now feels a little empty. I would miss the proper space race, the new units and the fantastic mods 
 too much. This one is definitely worth it!
  
  Very little I can point out negatively, so I will put in a personal gripe, for a feature I was 
 hoping would come back in some form. Please bring the building of a Palace back. That one that 
 in previous Civs allowed you to build it step by step. I know it added little to the point of the 
 game. It was more of a side-game, but it certainly added a touch of personalisation and satisfied 
 the little megalomaniac in us, that makes us play Civ in the first place. Given the graphic and 
 complexity possibilities nowadays that feature could be really good. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Greykor
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 26, 2007 2:57 pm PT
Review:  I have been waiting for this add-on ever since I heard they were coming out w/ more my style of 
 game play. Having all the new leaders to play and the tech are kinda cool, but I am still a little 
 fuzzy on how the spying etc. is going to work.
  
  As I just gpt this game it will take me a little while to get the hang of it. But it seems very 
 enjoyable. I hope they will work more of the bugs come out as new updates will be available. Seem 
 for the amt of new content the price seems to be bang on! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dariune
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jul 26, 2007 2:03 am PT
Review:  I often find that expansions, although adding to a game, often come out with too high a price on 
 them. Therefore i wait until no one is buying them anymore so that the price is greatly reduced. 
 I did that with Warlords and was very glad i did. Although it was a good expansion it really didnt 
 add enough that it could justify being sold at one third the amount of the actual game. Beyond 
 the sword, however adds a lot to Civ4 and i feel they have worked hard to listen to those that 
 spoke their grieviences. The first thing i would like to say (to which i imagine i would be verbally 
 attacked if possible) is how wrong i feel gamespot are. I often imagine they are a bunch of arcade 
 game players who very rarely enjoy or apreaciate the depth some games have to offer. Specifically 
 to BtS they have said the interface is still cluttered. To all those civ fans out there i would 
 like to say it is not. Perhaps if you are looking to access a small amount of infomation quickly 
 then it is daunting having to look at the several screens civ4 offers. However, as you are playing 
 civ4, which is a turned based game with many things to keep track of at the same time, i think 
 it is a fair assumption that you want lots of information. This is what Civ4 gives you and it does 
 it well. So to all those who are not only into a quick console game i say ignore that comment. 
 Having had my moan i will continue with the review. The added content appears in many different 
 guises. The new civs are a welcome addItion to the game as are the new leaders. The espionage, 
 although perhaps a little useless in some situations can be quite useful and is certainly a nice 
 angle when you dont want to risk open war. The corporations are, as gamespot says, just religion 
 for the late era's. It is nice though to have something else to concentrate on in that late game. 
 The new mods and scenarios are great and adds a whole lot of life into an already long lasting 
 game. Alltogether the game seems to run more fluently and there are several game tweaks which improve 
 the game in certain areas. All in all if you are a civ4 fan i would reccomend this addition. To 
 summerise
  
  + new units, civs and leaders
  +new things to do such as espionage and corporations
  +new mods and scenarios +lots of new things 
 to do
  - im afraid i always think with addons that there could be just that little bit more. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zeit082
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jul 25, 2007 11:21 pm PT
Review:  This got to be the best civ4 expansion yet. But I do miss the Embassy (embassy or consulate.. correct 
 me on this.) building, was it in civ3 or 2.. It does more than the current espionage and spy unit 
 capabilities. And one thing that sets it apart from the current espionage and spy unit is that 
 you can do espionage missions not by espionage points but by paying for its cost (gold) . I miss 
 this capability..
  
  There is one confusion though, since you and the AI players (in custom game) can choose both a 
 different character and country, it sometimes confuses me; eg: Fredderick of Sumeria and Alexander 
 of Byzantine .. If you got used to the country specific character in the original and warlords expansion, 
 it sometimes gets a little confusing at first. But you'll get the hang of it after a few hours 
 of playing.
  
  But anyway, great expansion to the already good strategy game.
  
  When will civ5 come? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lord_Foortwenti
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 25, 2007 6:02 pm PT
Review:  The sheer depth and potential play-time in this expansion is something not often found in expansion 
 packs these days. Many publishers and developers see an expansion to be nothing more than one more 
 chance to cash in on the success of the original and therefore don't give the title alot of dev 
 time, polish or care. That is NOT the case with Beyond the Sword .
  
  Beyond the Sword is all based on some tweaks and additions to the core Civ-IV experience. The usual 
 expansion pack suspects are all here: new civs, leaders, traits, units, buildings, wonders, bonuses 
 etc etc. And they all add even more depth and diversity to an already incredibly deep and diverse 
 game. A really neat, standout addition is the Corporations. They add a whole new layer of strategy 
 onto the game in the form of deeper economics and trade, and of course that means even more ways 
 to win (or lose :) ) Personally, my favorite part of the expansion is easily the really neat Scenarios. 
 There is such a huge variety here, everything from the usual Historic Scenarios through High-Fantasy 
 and Sci-Fi. Some of these are unlike anyhing ever seen done in a Civilization game and I really 
 like em. The best part is that almost each and every one of these Scenarios is a game in-and-of 
 itself that offers countless hours of playtime and is sure to bring about many very late nights 
 of just one more turn.... .
  
  All in all Beyond the Sword is a truly amazing expansion that raises the already incomparable Civilization 
 IV to new heights and is a MUST HAVE for any fan of the turn-based strategy genre. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: James009
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jul 25, 2007 3:30 pm PT
Review:  Let me start by stating that my expectations were hight for Beyond the Sword. The promise of more 
 modern units, improved espionage, corporations, random events, and exciting scenarios got my hopes 
 up and, let me say, it delivered. The expansion pack also comes with the usual package of extra 
 civilizations (including the Babylonians, Byzantines, Dutch, Ethiopian, Holy Roman, Khmer, and 
 Myan Empires) , improvements from Warlords (Generals, Traits) , technologies, and gameplay improvements 
 (improved air, sea, and siege combat) . In conclusion, there is a lot to be said.
  
  As previously stated there is the addition of new scenarios. Beyond the Sword comes shipped with 
 eleven exciting and creative scenarios. Three really caught my eye. There is a space age game almost 
 similar to that of Galactic Civilizations II, a game set in the far future (with future tech units 
 you can play with in the normal game) , and three player created mods that managed to find their 
 way on the CD: Rhye's and Fall, Fall from Heaven, and a WWII: Road to War scenario. They are all 
 great additions and could certainly have been packaged as an expansion pack on their own.
  
  I accidentally stayed up for hours playing this new expansion, you probably will too. I urge 
 any civ fan to go out and give this expansion a shot. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Talus057
Rating: 7
Date: Jul 25, 2007 12:19 pm PT
Review:  Another expansion for the Civ4 franchise. I usually don't like expansions, because they're filled 
 with a whole lot of nothing that should've been left to patches, but this one is different. They 
 added a lot of stuff to the game to make it more enjoyable. To that end I like it a lot. But it 
 needs balancing. Even when I have all my cities developed I am usually always forced to drop my 
 research down to 30% or lower in order to afford the cost of competition with rival civs; who are 
 usually bigger than I am -- and I play on Warlord. That wasn't so before this. I always dropped it 
 to 90% and usually kept it there for the entire game.
  
  It's still a good game though. I imagine they will patch it up very soon so I'm not going to give 
 it too many bad marks for that. There is a lot of stuff that this game adds, like corporations, 
 which make this a must-have expansion for the true civ fan. However, the best expansion for Civ4 
 costs absolutely nothing if you already own the game; and it's called Fall From Heaven 2-- I suggest 
 you check that out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lord_Midas
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jul 25, 2007 9:17 am PT
Review:  I haven't played Civ IV for ages, but I remembered just how fantastic this game was.
  
  Beyond the Sword has got me back into it again, and though I haven't even touched the surface of 
 all the new addtitions (Espionage, Corporations, etc) , it hasn't lost any of its time destroying 
 addictiveness.
  
  Some of the senarios can seem quite daunting at first. With huge world maps with large civilizations 
 to jump into. Even space to become master of. I'm still a bit of a n00b when it comes to this game, 
 playing at Warlord level, but the choices of campaigns, senarios and even starting from scratch 
 are truely drool worthy.
  
  I used to be Meh! with games like this but then numerous top reviews and GOTY awards can't be wrong... 
 they weren't :) If you are a veteran Civ player then this is a no brainer purchase. Call yourself 
 a gamer and you've never played Civ IV before then you really, really have to give this game a 
 go. You won't regret it (though you do need the original Civ IV to play) . Enjoy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rjwoer
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 25, 2007 8:01 am PT
Review:  Beyond the Sword (BtS) is an excellent expansion to an already outstanding turn-based strategy 
 game. Civilization and its legions of fans have long defined this genre, and BtS goes a long way 
 to revamping that definition.
  
  New features abound. Not only are there many more leaders, wonders, buildings, technologies, and 
 civilizations to choose from (an almost dizzying number, far greater than any previous Civ iteration) , 
 but the addition of espionage, corporations, and random events make this a very fresh experience.
 
  
  There are also lots of subtle improvements. The artwork is updated ( ethnically accurate skin tones 
 for the same units based on geographic location, for example ) , the various adviser screens are 
 tweaked and improved, and the units even move differently on the map. All of this makes an already 
 polished game shine.
  
  Also notable are the improvements to air warfare and naval warfare. Both have seemed a bit lacking 
 in the vanilla and Warlords versions of Civilization IV. The improvements here couldn't be more 
 welcome, and they go a long way toward fleshing out combat tactics and techniques. This is no longer 
 a massive land-based army game.
  
  The random events (which can be turned off if you prefer) are an absolute gem. They give Civ IV 
 a feel that has long been missing, adding life and reality to what sometimes can feel artificial. 
 Though I haven't yet explored it, I'm sure users can easily add many more customized random events 
 through the XML modifications Civ IV is known to encourage.
  
  Beyond the Sword is easily the best Civilization expansion pack ever. If you are a Civ fanatic 
 you already know that this is one not to be missed. If, however, you haven't indulged in Sid Meier's 
 iconic strategy game, this is most definitely the time to try it out!
  
  (Note: you need vanilla Civ IV to run the BtS expansion pack.) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: the-queen
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 25, 2007 4:24 am PT
Review:  July has been a big year with the E3 convention but one game has made July 2007 an excellent month 
 and that is Sid Meier's Civilization IV: Beyond the Sword, second expansion to Civ IV. Beyond the 
 Sword has many new features, 10 new civilizations each with one leader, 6 new leasders for existing 
 civilizations and 11 new exciting scenarios.
  
  The newest feature in Beyond the Sword is Corporations. Corporations are much like religions were 
 you can build a corporation, make a corporation executive to spread that corporation to other cities. 
 There are seven corporations that require a great person to build the headquarters and certain 
 resources;
  Standard Ethanol Company is built by a Great Scientist and makes oil for corn, rice or wheat.
 
  Cereal Mills is built by a Great Merchant and makes additional food for corn, rice or wheat.
 
  Creative Constructions is built by a Great Engineer and makes additional production for a city 
 for iron, copper, stone, or marble
  Aluminium Inc. is built by a Great Scientist and makes aluminium for coal
  Civilized jewels is 
 built by a Great Artist and makes additional gold and culture for gold, silver or gems
  Mining Inc. is built by a Great Engineer and makes additional gold for coal, iron, copper, gold, 
 gems or silver
  Sid's Sushi Co. is built by a Great Merchant and makes additional food for crab, clam, fish or 
 rice.
  
  Another feature is that espionage has been expanded. Like with research, culture and taxes you 
 can divert your income into espionage against other civilizations. Spies are invisible to all units 
 except other spies and if your spy gets to enemy city he can do vary of missions such as posioning 
 water, supporting a revolt or spreading your culture. Also a Great Spy can be born and can better 
 your intelligence in a city and can build Scotland Yard in your cities.
  
  Another feature is random events which challenge you, certain random events are natural disasters, 
 mines collapsing and diplomatic marriages. Diplomatic Victory has been expanded to an early age, 
 before where had to wait until the modern age to build the United Nations but now you can build 
 the Apostolic Palace (the Pope's residence) but you have to be the same religion to win.
  
  There are 10 new civilizations each with it's own leader, unique unit and unique building. The 
 new civilizations are: Babylonian Empire, the Byzantine Empire, the Dutch Empire, the Ethiopian 
 Empire, the Holy Roman Empire, the Khmer Empire, the Mayan Empire, the Native American Empire, 
 the Portuguese Empire and the Sumerian Empire. The 6 new leaders are: Abraham Lincoln of the American 
 Empire, Boudica of the Celtic Empire, Charles deGualle of the French Empire, Darius I of the Persian 
 Empire, Pericles of the Greek Empire and Suleiman of the Ottoman Empire. Also Augustus Caesar's 
 traits are changed to Imperialist and Industrious.
  
  The 11 new scenarios are brilliant.
  Afterworld is a horror/sci-fi scenario were you use a group 
 of Gravebringers to fight zombies.
  Broken Star is set in a divided Russia were you can buy units from the USA or from the Chinese 
 black market.
  Charlemagne is set in medieval Europe were you lead 5 kingdoms to match the feats of the great 
 Holy Roman Emperor, Charlemagne.
  Civ Defence is a scenario where you do an advanced start to start a city then a variety of enemies 
 are hell-bent those cities
  Crossroads of the World is set in 13th century Europe where you must conquest the trade routes 
 of the three continents
  Fall from Heaven is based on the popular fan mod Fall from Heaven where you play an ageless hero 
 to fight his enemies
  Final Frontier is a space scenario where you colonize solar systems.
  Gods of Old is where you choose one of 7 Mesopotamian gods, you build temples and monuments to 
 him/her, use Inquisitors to purge enemy religions from your own cities. Serve your god well hand 
 use him to smite your enemies.
  Next War is a near future scenario where you use mechs and robots to make mighty empires.
  Rhye's 
 and Fall of Civilizations is an updated version of another fan mod where a earth based map is used 
 and can follow the rise and fall of civilizations and change to newer ones.
  WWII: The Road to War is set in 1936 where can take up the great nations who were to fight in World 
 War II.
  
  In short, Civilization IV: Beyond the Sword is an epic game that has chisilled it's name in the 
 stone of the monument of great PC games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Torbian02
Rating: 7.9
Date: Jul 24, 2007 8:19 pm PT
Review:  I just picked up my copy and was eager to play the new Ryen's and fall of Civilization. I have 
 everything setup, and decided to go with the Egyptians, but was unable to get far because the I 
 needed to research biology (which is in 5 thousand years!) before I could build a farm. My workers 
 could not build farms, leaving me stuck with nothing to bring in as food sorce for the land lock 
 cities. I have not seen any other bugs, but hopefully these will be resolved soon. I will rate 
 my game better once these issues have been addressed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mercenary19
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jul 23, 2007 12:29 pm PT
Review:  First, lets start with the new stuff in the game. Of course, there are new civs, leaders, wonders, 
 units, etc that have already been mentioned and that add a lot more strategy to the game. Espionage 
 has been redone, a full 180. It comes into play much earlier in the game, and has a lot more importance 
 than it did in Warlords and the Original Civ IV. The Apostolic Palace, a religious version of the 
 United Nations, allows a civilization to have a religous diplomatic victory, giving religion a 
 whole new aspect to the game. And they re-did some of the visuals and tweaked the engine. I noticed 
 that the game does run a little better than the Original Civ IV and Warlords even though I'm using 
 it on the same computer. The new scenarios are pretty awesome. The scenarios are a little less 
 historical than Warlord's and have more imagination and fantasy aspects in them. The Final Frontier 
 scenario can almost be a called its own game. It takes place in space. There are no continents, 
 waters, settlers, workers, scouts, warriors, riflemen, planes, and the like. Instead, star systems 
 filled with asteroid belts, radiation clouds, supernovas, black holes, and the like. And space 
 fighters are used instead. In addition, there is an entirely new set of technologies, units, graphics, 
 civs, etc. I aslo still have to learn other aspects of this new scenario as I'm still not 100 percent 
 sure how everything works. The Afterworld scenarios is also practically a new game. You control 
 Gravebringers on a torn up, wasteland planet. And you pretty much walk around and upgrade your 
 units as they kill monster like units. I still have to play this scenario more, and I will put 
 in more information. Age of Ice takes, like Afterworld, contains noticeable RPG elements: in addition 
 to regular units, you will control unique heroes that can be upgraded throughout the game. Unlike 
 the previous two scenarios, Age of Ice keeps a reasonable amount of the original Civ content and 
 it is not its own game. Yet, the fantasy setting is still great. There is a World War II scenario, 
 The Road to War, which offers three variants: Pacific 1936, Europe 1936, and Europe 1939 which 
 all include new units. The other historical scenarios are Charlemagne, a battle for military supremacy 
 in medieval Europe, while trying to be liked by the pope in order to be named emperor, and Crossroads 
 which is set in the Middle East around 1300 AD that focuses on trade and the silk road.
  
  What I really like is that in the mods and scenarios one can switch to the newcoming civilization 
 due to Rhye's and Fall addition on civs to the game and the game progresses. So if you mess up 
 with one civ you can switch to the new one, while the old civ you switched from is still screwed 
 over. In Broken Star, a scenario based around the collapse of government in Russia, you can bring 
 your civ to power either through force or by obtaining four nuclear warheads.
  
  Gods of Old, which can be played on any map allows you to use your religon as a power. It allows 
 you to use your religon to attack others. Next War brings some of the sci-fi edge to the classic 
 civ game. You can make mechs, clone soldiers, etc instead of the traditional units. It can be played 
 as an all out war between super powers on an Earth effected by global warming where the seas continually 
 rise, or as an addition to the regular game.
  
  So even if your bored with the traditional Civ gameplay (which is impossible) these new scenarios 
 will keep you occupied for a long time. Plus, you have all the new content added to the regular 
 game to keep you occupied. Not to mention the online multiplayer. Which I haven't been able to 
 experience too much since not many people have the game right now. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
