-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Civilization III: Play the World
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/strategy/civilization3playtheworld/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Nov  8, 2002
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 5
Critic Score: 6.2, 12 Review (s)
User Score: 7.3, 515 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Atari
Developer: Firaxis Games
Genre: Historic Turn-Based...
Date:     Oct 25, 2002
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Hopefully, Play the World's wretched online performance can be fixed in a patch. 

 When Civilization III was released, developer Firaxis hinted that it had special plans for multiplayer 
 support. The assumption, which Firaxis didn't deny at first, was that it would be available as 
 a patch. But time passed with no sign of a multiplayer patch, and the feature eventually became 
 the cornerstone for Firaxis' Play the World expansion pack. The game has some single-player additions 
 as well, but there's no denying that the most important addition to the game is multiplayer support. 
 Unfortunately, the multiplayer is also an unmitigated disaster.           One of Play the World's 
 gameplay modifications adds... dinosaur barbarians?    

  Play the World's multiplayer is almost unplayable. In online games, the amount of lag is intolerable. 
 With ping times that would be reasonable for even the most graphics-intensive first-person shooters, 
 Play the World still lags. Even in turn-based modes, where your computer shouldn't be sending or 
 receiving much data during your turn, the game can suffer from excruciatingly slow performance. 
 Simple tasks like opening a city or making a selection from a menu can cause delays in mouse movement 
 of a few seconds. Don't even think about scrolling the map unless you've got some time to kill. 
   

  Then there are the crashes. It's not a matter of whether the game will crash, but  when  it will 
 crash. When you try to play online games with more than just two players, the chances increase 
 exponentially, which makes for some pretty short games. Try joining Civilization III's multiplayer 
 lobby, and you'll find that it's full of irate players in a cramped chat window. You're not going 
 to be playing the world with this game, unless you can get it set up on a LAN or by cramming all 
 your friends into one room and taking turns on a single computer in hotseat mode.           Another 
 modification adds new terrain with richer colors.    

  LAN and hotseat work better than online games. However, the hotseat mode, which also works as a 
 play-by-email option, is disappointing. There's no replay of the other players' turns. If an enemy 
 unit scoots in and out of your viewing range, you'll never see it. If you lose a unit, it just 
 vanishes and you have no indication it was ever there. If a city falls, you can't see who attacked 
 it. If a unit is lost in a pitched battle, you don't know how damaged the enemy was as a result 
 of the skirmish. There are no special provisions for diplomacy or negotiation, which are drawn 
 out over several turns. File saving and management can be confusing for e-mail games. These problems 
 aren't game breakers, but they indicate that the developer may have just tacked on hotseat and 
 e-mail play without much thought for how well they would work.    

 The best way to enjoy Civilization III in multiplayer is on a LAN, where the lag isn't much of an 
 issue and you can usually recover from the crashes. The classical turn-based mode is well implemented 
 in that you can manage your empire even when it's not your turn. The game also has a simultaneous 
 turn mode that makes games run much faster; it's almost mandatory if you have more than two players. 
 However, Firaxis' attempt to make Civilization III run in real time isn't likely to find many fans. 
 In "turnless" mode, the clock is constantly running. At certain intervals, unit movement is replenished, 
 resources are gathered, and production, taxes, and research are processed. These intervals, which 
 are pretty much invisible to the player, get longer as the game goes on. This presumably gives 
 you more time to manage your growing empire. But the problem is that it assumes that each turn 
 can be played in a set amount of time. The nature of Civilization is that some turns are over quickly 
 and some turns take a long time to complete. You don't need a full turn if you're waiting on a 
 spearman to be built. But when you're conducting diplomacy, negotiating trades, managing workers, 
 or scouting for new city locations while your invisible turn's time is ticking away, time almost 
 seems to be running away from you. The inherently turn-based structure of Civilization III just 
 doesn't work well when it's running on a ruthless timer, and as it turns out, AI civilizations 
 can't even handle the pace either.           Korea is one of the game's new playable civilizations. 
    

  As a single player add-on, Play the World just makes additions that are functional, but pretty 
 minor. The expansion's new victory conditions are actually a decent addition to they game, since 
 they allow for shorter games with more focused goals. The additional tribes are ultimately minor, 
 although some of them pack a real punch. The Celts are a powerful early-game force and the Spanish 
 can quickly project military power across difficult terrain with their conquistadors. New terrain 
 modifications include outposts, which are ultimately too expensive to be useful. They come in handy 
 during the early stages of the game, but this is when workers are far too precious to be traded 
 in for the improved visibility afforded by an outpost. However, the new radar stations that can 
 be built later in the game add a helpful defensive bonus. With judiciously placed fortresses, these 
 allow for some nicely fortified borders. Air bases are an inexpensive way to project airpower and 
 prove very useful for offensive operations.   

  Aside from the new tribes' unique units, there are two new units that are actually just an upgrade 
 path for swordsmen. Swordsmen were a military dead end in Civilization III, where the twentieth 
 century would roll around with packs of these obsolete units still running around. Now they can 
 be upgraded to medieval infantry and then guerillas, which are particularly helpful if you're missing 
 the strategic resources you might need for more powerful armies. The expansion also adds some new 
 interface features which are helpful for sorting discontent cities, moving units in a stack, finding 
 particular units for upgrading, setting rally points where your cities send new units, and automatic 
 bombardment for artillery and aircraft.           The expansion has new buttons for worker actions. 
    

  One of the expansion's biggest problems is in the way it treats its included user-made content. 
 Originally, Civilization III shipped with an empty scenario folder. But Play the World has a scenario 
 folder brimming with maps, artwork, scenarios, and fan-made modifications. However, it's unorganized, 
 almost completely undocumented, and sometimes even incomplete. For instance, the epic "Double Your 
 Pleasure" conversion doesn't actually have graphics. Though it's good that the developer added 
 all this user-made content to really help showcase the work of dedicated fans around the world, 
 Play The World presents all this hard work as a messy heap that will probably scare off new players. 
   

  Hopefully, Play the World's wretched online performance can be fixed in a patch. If this happens, 
 the Civilization franchise has the potential to be as excellent a multiplayer game as it is a single-player 
 game. Until that time, Play the World is little more than a few pleasant tweaks and a big pile 
 of downloadable content dumped on a CD.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (4 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Llarrev
Rating: 5.8
Date: Jul 29, 2007 4:02 pm PT
Review:  We have all come to accept that expansion quite often do not live up to the original but I had 
 haope for this one as the original was so strong. Hope can be a fickle friend. The major addition 
 to Play the World is online multiplayer. PLease hold the applause, this is a trojan horse, on the 
 inside lurks a terrible truth- the multiplayer sucks. The lag time is incredible, not to mention 
 the countless times my computer has crashed as a result of this exceptional new feauture. I've 
 been told that the LAN multiplayer works better, but how many people have multiple computers on 
 hand and enough friends to play them whenever they want. The additions to gameplay in single player 
 are minor. The new tribes do not make a major impact on gameplay form the last game. Sure its nice 
 to have more options to play with, but it only expands what is already available and does not bring 
 anything new to the table. The only new adjustment which is commendable is that your units, for 
 a small fee, can be upgraded to the newest unit of its type, which is better than having medieval 
 units running a mock during the twentieth century. Also, units can now travel in larger groups 
 for easier management, which provides al little relief in the later stages of the game. The empty 
 scenario folder has gone, to be replaced with one packed with unfinished, terrible (one featuring 
 dinosaur barbarians springs to mind) and some all too similar scenarios.
  
  As expansions go this is a rather lacklustre effort, the new feautures are not very noteworthy, 
 and the multiplaye ris still bad even wit the release of patches. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ACESandElGHTS
Rating: 4.7
Date: Feb 28, 2007 10:57 am PT
Review:  Yes, you can play online. With some added civs, like, ummmm... the Koreans and Celts? Huh? I bought 
 this because I thought playing online was the way to go. Well, maybe it is, but not with Civ III. 
 It just never really took off. If you're looking to play via LAN or just play against your friend, 
 this thing is sure to be heavily discounted (or unavailable) , and worth your while. But to play 
 competitively online, this game is worthless. Lag is always an issue, turns seem to take forever 
 and your desire for fun will quickly turn into a desire to sleep or destroy your computer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CajunExplosion316
Rating: 7.5
Date: Aug 19, 2006 9:59 am PT
Review:  Gameplay - Too bad it's the same still..... (7)
  
  Graphics - Still no upgrades from the original (7)
  
  Sound - Some New sounds for new units 
 (8)
  
  Value - Of course, more empires means more play-time (8)
  
  Tilt- Yeah... it's a disapointing expansion (8)
  
  and i need a hundred words for an review 
 about an expansion pack....
  Oh yeah, it has multiplayer.... which is again... disapointing
  I mean... really, after all this 
 time, and all the updates....
  It still sucks hard
  So... I say buy the first two if you want... but just ignore this... not worth the money... but 
 than again it's only like what now? 5 bucks? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: grasu
Rating: 5.7
Date: Mar 2, 2006 10:23 am PT
Review:  Not every expansion pack is bound for glory... some are quite bad. PTW was among the bad ones when 
 it was released in 2002 with horrible multiplayer support, major lag, and almost zero improvements 
 to the Civ formula.
  
  Fast-forward 2 years to 2004... almost 2005, PTW is found on the cheap just about everywhere. For 
 $5, no matter how bad it is, this expansion pack is worth it.
  
  Graphics: 6/10
  
  PTW doesn't win any awards in the graphical department. The graphics are virtually unchanged from 
 the earlier incarnations of Civ 3. Other than a few new units and the new faces and expressions 
 of the world leaders the graphics are the same clean and "cartoony" graphics that appeared in Civ 
 3, too bad that we didn't even get an option for higher resolutions. But, fair is fair, the developers 
 did add some new animations to cannons and artillery along with a few new tilesets.
  
  Sound: 6/10
  
  Just like the graphics, the sound in PTW is identical to the sound in Civ 3... 
 that's really too bad because in 6 months of development they couldve pulled the plug on the horrible 
 looping drum solo in the earlier eras of the game. That drum solo is pure evil. It oscillates between 
 2 musical notes, high and low, and it makes baby Jesus weep in terror. Please make sure we don't 
 see that in Civ 4!
  
  Gameplay: 6/10
  
  No one will confuse PTW with Civ 4. The gameplay in the first Civ 3 expansion pack is virtually 
 identical to the gameplay in Civ 3, which is not too good.
  
  For those of you who haven't played Civ 3, here's a quick over view of what you get. Civ 3 is a 
 game where you lead one of 16 nations to gold, glory and fame through all ages of human development. 
 Starting from the early ages of stone and clubmen (and horrible drum solos) you keep evolving, 
 building settlements, researching technology conquering enemies and building friendships until 
 you complete one of the many victory conditions given.
  
  Along the way you have access to different governments, all with their special bonuses, be they 
 better, harder workers or more free units, wonders of the world which are incredible buildings 
 that affect the whole course of the game... mostly for the player who builds them, and generally 
 you get a good feel of how it must be like to rule empires.
  
  That's the short version of a much longer story (read my Civ 3 review if you want the full scoop) . 
 PTW adds nearly nothing to that.
  
  PTW adds just 2 units to the international killing pool: a medieval infantry, which is basically 
 a "filler" in-between swordsmen and whatever replaced them, and guerrilla warriors. Guerrilla warriors 
 are totally useless and utterly pathetic to look at. They fire one shot and the fight with their 
 BAYONET... against tanks. Medieval Infantry is a much better addition. They really help speed up 
 medieval warfare which was a CHORE in Civ 3 since you had no artillery, no high-attack units, and 
 you had to defeat cities with populations way above 6 nearly 80% of the time.
  
  Along with the new units also come a bunch of new civilizations, with their own civ-specific unit. 
 It might just be me, but whoever programmed these civs didn't give a rats ass about them. Out 
 of the total of 8 civilizations, 3 have mounted units that are just a basic variation of the knight, 
 with the A/D/M values switched around, 2 have units that are totally useless, and, if you REALLY 
 stretch it, the other 3 might have something that keeps your interest. These are really bad civilizations 
 and seem to just be afterthoughts of the developers after they gave up on the multiplayer.
  
  PTW also brings a few new buildings to Civ 3 (City Defense, is the most useful and probably 
 the best addition of the expansion pack) and a new wonder, the Internet. You're also granted the 
 ability to now build outposts, airfields and other such useless junk on the game map.
  
  Really, most of the improvements that Civ: PTW brings are for hardcore civers. Better unit stacking, 
 auto bombard, outposts, radar towers, upgraded swordsmen, etc. These are all features that nearly 
 80% of the people who play Civ 3 will not sense while playing.
  
  The interface too receives a slight update with more automatization (yeah, thats not a word) . 
 Now you can have workers build a road from one place to another with the click of a button and 
 you can automate forest, jungle, or swamp "cutting".
  
  Along with the new additions you also get some maps to play them on. Now, you can play one of a 
 few scenarios which the developers downloaded of fan sites, put on a disk, and shipped them to 
 you for more than you should pay but at least its convenient to have World Map, Europe, and other 
 fan made maps available in 2 or 3 dimensions right after you install the game.
  
  Finally, there are a few new game modes, but they're really useless. Elimination is made for Gamespy 
 multiplayer ONLY since one lost city = one kill (or death, depending on which side of the lost 
 city you are) . Regicide is the same basic thing, except now it's a king instead of a city. They 
 also added an "Accelerated Production" option, which reduces game time considerably but is thought 
 by many to be "unbalanced". It's by far the most fun addition to the game through this expansion 
 pack.
  
  Multiplayer: 6/10
  
  Now, a few years after the atrocious launch, PTW is actually playable online... but the real fun 
 is to be had with hotseat. It's the only way to play this kind of huge game that requires hours 
 upon hours of thinking and management. This kind of game will never succeed online no matter how 
 quick they try to make it.
  
  But, assuming youre masochistic like that, you can play this using Gamespy and for a game this 
 complex, there are quite a few people playing. You can usually find about 50-60 people playing 
 this online. Usually a nice bunch but they pretty much make mince meat out of any and all n00bs 
 who dare wonder in their realm.
  
  Overall: 6/10
  
  Really, you can find this expansion pack for $5 at most stores that have a "Closeout Software" 
 section. For that kind of price, it's worth your time. Anything more however, is not. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
