-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Civilization II Multiplayer Gold Edition
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/strategy/civilization2mge/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Feb 11, 1999
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7.3
Critic Score: 6.2, 1 Review (s)
User Score: 8.9, 181 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Hasbro Interactive
Developer: MicroProse
Genre: Historic Turn-Based...
Date:     Dec 31, 1997

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
It's stable, and the options are plentiful and helpful. But the question still remains: Should Civilization 
 even be played as a multiplayer game? 

 Civilization II multiplay has finally arrived. Too bad it's a year late. What's more, despite the 
 inclusion of the two previously released scenario packs in the Multiplayer Civilization II: Gold 
 Edition, I can't help but think this game is too little, too late. If this is the best MicroProse 
 can muster at this time to compete with Alpha Centauri and the upcoming Call to Power, then I'm 
 worried about MicroProse's Civ franchise.  

 Multiplayer Civilization II's most obvious feature is multiplayer support. You can play Civ II games 
 over a LAN, Internet, and hotseat. You can set various parameters to street games in any direction 
 you want: huge worlds for long games, small worlds for quick ones. You can set the game to be open 
 to dynamic joining, set respawn for a second chance at the game, and even double movement and production 
 rates for a game. The last feature, doubling of movement and production, is a great feature as 
 it can speed up games significantly.  

 For the most part, this game is well executed. It's stable, and the options are plentiful and helpful. 
 But the question still remains: Should Civilization even be played as a multiplayer game? I love 
 Civilization, and actually played Multiplayer Civilization II for hours, but I did so alone. It's 
 hard enough to get people together to play multiplayer games, let alone ask them to stay for six 
 hours so you can get a good night of Civ II going. And forget about organizing a return trip. I'm 
 not saying it's impossible, just very difficult. The double movement and production definitely 
 helps, but simultaneous turns would have helped immensely as well. Another feature that Multiplayer 
 Civilization II could have used was a matching service.  

 Although the game plays well (it is Civilization after all) , one feature of the multiplayer game 
 was very annoying. During a hotseat game, the computer will take over for you if it's not your 
 turn and start negotiating on your behalf! Let's say you end your turn and let your friend take 
 the seat and start his. However, you left a unit near his territory. The minute he encounters this 
 unit, the AI will ask for a meeting between your culture and his. You won't even be able to return 
 to the game and start a negotiation. Instead, the computer will do it for you. When I played, it 
 was shocking to suddenly see the AI trade away all my technology and then give typically stupid 
 threats like "We tire of this conversation. Pay us 100 gold in tribute or we will crush you." I 
 would never negotiate like that, let alone give my rival all my goods. Whoever decided to let the 
 AI take over negotiations in a hotseat game must have lost his mind. I'm standing right next to 
 my friend. If there was a split screen on the computer with diplomacy options, we could simply 
 negotiate in person and then finalize it by clicking the proper buttons on the screen.  

 Aside from the dubious bonus of multiplayer support, the other features in Multiplayer Civilization 
 II include the scenarios from the two Civilization II scenario packs: Conflicts in Civilization 
 and Fantastic Worlds. These expansion packs offer a variety of engaging and clever scenarios, designed 
 by MicroProse and by fans on the Internet. Some scenarios take historical conflicts, like the Mongol 
 invasion or the Crusades, and turn them into fun, goal-oriented minigames, complete with new and 
 unique units. Other scenarios, such as the fantasy and X-COM ones, are even more ambitious and 
 completely overhaul the game with scores of new technologies and troops. For a Civilization II 
 fan, the scenarios should provide great amounts of fun gameplay. However, something I had hoped 
 MicroProse would fix in this game was the AI. Pathfinding is still a little sketchy, but I don't 
 know why it couldn't have been improved. MicroProse spent nearly two years on this game, and it 
 can't even patch the AI?  

 As a Civilization fan, I am of two minds about Multiplayer Civilization II. I've always wanted to 
 play Civilization with my friends, but it's hard to get enough people together and stay together 
 to play a full game, and this edition doesn't go far enough to make multiplayer games quicker. 
 I also already own Civilization II, so for me, there really is no benefit. However, if you don't 
 already own Civilization II, I would recommend Multiplayer Civilization II because it not only 
 has the original game, but also the two scenario packs. Just consider the multiplayer support a 
 welcome bonus that will more than likely collect virtual dust on your hard drive.    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (3 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: dshaw62197
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 26, 2008 6:48 pm PT
Review:  Without a doubt, the Civilization franchise is one of the most honored and cherished in the canon 
 of PC gaming. And justly so; Sid Meyer's creation is the finest turn-based strategy game imaginable. 
 While the original Civ game was a masterpiece, Civ II evolved the engine with improved graphics, 
 more unit options, and expanded civs to play with. But by far, the best feature for me in this 
 Civ II collection is the scenarios. The addition of the scenarios took the original Civ concept 
 and expanded it tenfold. With games that featured everything from ancient Rome to the Napoleonic 
 era to the world wars, Civ II offered a wide variety of historical epochs to experience. And with 
 the ability to mod units and buildings, some scenarios offer alien invasions and fantasy settings. 
 All in all, this feature, combined with the other previously mentioned improvements, were a solid 
 step forward in the history of Civilization. I highly recommend that if you have any interest at 
 all in the Civ genre, this collection is a must-have. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: waflerevolution
Rating: 9.6
Date: Dec 25, 2005 10:32 am PT
Review:  First made for the PC by Sid Meier this game has released several expansions over the years and 
 has and will inspire many ports, re-vamps and sequels.
  
  Civilization II improved on all the biggest issues problems and graphics from the original Civilization. 
 The icons for units were made to look like what they actually were and thus looked less like pieces 
 from a Risk board game. The game map became more vivid and had more variants to create a more 
 realistic feel to the world. The diplomat screens were very impressive for the time, featuring 
 full 3D heralds which represented other nations. Your meetings with the high counsel had the 
 most impressive feature, actual people who changed their outfits as time progressed but continued 
 to nag your ear off. The games opening cut scene was also very impressive as it featured the creation 
 and end of the universe and everything important in between. Sound was upgraded as well, each of 
 the units used a different attack sound to match their method of attack and they were usually quite 
 dead on. The affore mentioned high counsel would give you the advice with actual voice acting. 
 The music wasnt great but it was addictive. The other sounds consisted of people cheering when 
 something good happened booing/screaming when bad stuff happened, which usually resulted in rebellion. 
 And the sounds for each city item had individual sound effects to represent what had been built. 
 The best mix of visual and sound were the world wonders which consisted of either mythological, 
 real, or futuristic huge scientific or architectural advancements and always had some effect on 
 either your cities or units. These wonders were each represented by a short video of what it was 
 and how it came to be and what it does for your Civilization.
  
  The Gameplay works in turn based strategy. You start out as a single settler and work your way 
 up to be a world power by building cities, researching new technology, keeping the environment 
 clean, conquering other civilizations, or making peace with them. Its all up to you! The you 
 I speak of is the leader of your civilization, you rule them for a set number of years then retire. 
 But during that time you make every decision, from taxes and type of government to what to build 
 or research and when, and even names of your cities!
  
  You also have some scenarios to play with, some are real wars others are just pre-set games but 
 the same basic gameplay features remain.
  
  There are quite a few options too as are in most games. None are too important though.
  
  There 
 is also a scoreboard where you are remembered and given a score, you can compete with yourself 
 or others. Again, its up to you!
  
  Here is the moment youve all been waiting for, the wrap up.
  Ill list 5 good points (pros) 
 and 5 bad points (cons) in no particular order.
  
  PROS
  1. Map designing makes multiplayer so much better
  2. MULTIPLAYER!
  3. Gameplay itself is fun 
 and addictive
  4. Customization of civilizations and how you play.
  5. though it consists of a lot of violence its within the realms of safe for all ages, Id even 
 call it educational.
  
  CONS
  1. once you get to a certain point you have to wait a long time for it to be your turn again.
 
  2. very time consuming
  3. although it does have multiplayer, it is hard to get people to play with.
  4. not suitable 
 for action junkies or people with ADHD
  5. requires more then 3rd grade intelligence to play
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: pad69
Rating: 8.8
Date: Dec 19, 2004 10:02 am PT
Review:  First of all it was not exactly like the first game but I didn't care. There were some improvements 
 like the different styled graphics and animations.
  
  Something good was the anti cheat but it still allowed a person to cheat if you wanted to but you 
 were marked in your stats as being in the cheat mode. 
  Well in the first game you may call it cheating. Actualy you can or can't call it cheating maybe 
 it was more quirks in the game which many of us here took advantage of before. Especially against 
 the AI.
  
  Other than that the changes were not enough to mention as it was the same game.
  
  I like it. 
 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
