-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Civilization II
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/strategy/civilization2/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: May  1, 1996
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 9.2
Critic Score: 9.1, 6 Review (s)
User Score: 9.1, 1,987 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: MicroProse
Developer: MPS Labs
Genre: Historic Turn-Based...
Date:     Feb 29, 1996
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
The design team at Microprose has managed to add a score of new play elements that help the aging 
 strategy classic evolve - without sacrificing the game's addictive qualities. 

 After the disappointing example set by X-COM 2, many gamers expected Civilization II to be nothing 
 more than Sid Meier's original game with a few new graphics tacked on. Others were worried that 
 the game's designers would stray too far from the path, and would ruin the spectacular play balance 
 that made Civilization such a hit. In the end, the design team at Microprose managed to add a score 
 of new play elements that help the aging strategy classic evolve - without sacrificing the game's 
 addictive qualities.  

 Although players familiar with the original Civilization will probably be able to jump in and start 
 playing right away, a swarm of new features definitely warrants a few minutes with the manual. 
 What players will most likely notice first is the much greater number of races to choose from, 
 including the Sioux, the Carthaginians, and the Chinese, as well as a customizing option that lets 
 you create any personal favorites the designers may have missed. This time around, cultural variations 
 are also represented onscreen by four different city growth patterns. The fantastic number of new 
 combat units adds limitless possibilities, as players figure out new ways to use marines (who can 
 attack from the sea) , cruise missiles, paratroopers, and even religious fanatics to their best 
 advantage. For those who grew tired of the chaotic battlegrounds of the original game (remember 
 when that chariot took out your battleship?) , there's a new warfare system that gives units a score 
 in both firepower and hit points for more realistic combat results. All of these features combine 
 to give the game a powerful depth, and enough variation to ensure that players will be loading 
 this one up for months to come.  

 Plenty of little details in Civilization II are also worth noting: an improved graphics set featuring 
 a three-quarters viewpoint similar to Syndicate or Crusader, entertaining sound effects that range 
 from the trumpet of an elephant to the air raid sirens of an atomic attack, full-motion video clips 
 for each of the civilization advances, and a full map editor that enables players to design their 
 own fields of conquest. Although the game suffers from its lack of multiplayer options, there's 
 really nothing available that can compete with its depth of play, subtlety of challenge, and pure 
 addictive potential. The fact is, if you're a strategy fan, you've already bought this game, and 
 if you're not, this title could turn you around.    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (35 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: mattsnibbs
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 1, 2008 9:12 pm PT
Review:  I'll admit it this game took me a while to get into it. I was 14 or 15 and everyone else was playing 
 Age of Empires and then I got THIS....
  
  The game was slow and it wasn't particularly pretty (then again looking back at AoE, it wasn't either) . 
 I got past these things which really would have put off a lesser gamer, can i say that it took 
 about 3 hours and boy was I hooked.
  
  It basically brigs out the Dictator (or chief, or President) in you. It actually becomes fun the 
 more you play. Think it is easy to create an empire that has happy citizens, is productive (both 
 food, raw materials and wealth) , has an effective military both home and abroad and can advance 
 their knowledge? Damn It's not.
  
  Yes there is a lot of micromanagement for you to have an effective civilization but it is fun every 
 single time, and as you advance you have more problems to deal with such as Global warming and 
 of course nuclear warfare.
  
  The diplomacy is fairly rudimentary but things have not evolved much since this was first brought 
 in. Basically all you do is ask for help create a treaty, trade goods and Declare war while it 
 is a bit basic it fulfills all needs of the game.
  
  The game is not graphically stunning, even for it's time but the game itself is so in depth so 
 engrossing that you probably won't notice too much.
  
  Everyone no matter what stage of their life should pick up this game. You will not be disappointed. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SwashbucklerJak
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 10, 2008 8:22 am PT
Review:  Civilization 2 joins a very select group of games that I find to be classic. Tetris, Pac-Man, Final 
 Fantasy, and now Civilization 2.
  I've spent hours, conquering random maps, exploring uncharted new lands, and crushing my opponent 
 the second I learn Gunpowder or Mobile Warfare. I'd start playing around 11 PM, I could easily 
 play while chatting with friends, listening to music, and even browsing the internet. Eventually 
 that changed when the game got intense and my sense of urgency was now towards an increasingly 
 hostile civilization. Before I knew it my dad would be walking down the stairs at 4 AM to go to 
 work, cursing at me to go to bed. And he was right, I did have school in the morning, but I couldn't 
 tear myself away from the 2D world.
  The graphics aren't anything to look at, but besides that it's a very timeless game. 
  The game 
 can be overwhelming at first (or at least it was to me when I was 11) but once a player gets the 
 hang of it, the game seems like a breeze. That's when you climb the difficulty ranks and realize 
 you're not as good as you thought.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Memberino
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 8, 2008 7:37 am PT
Review:  I recently had to delete this game completely off my system (the day after, the fan of my computer 
 broke rending it unusable for now- perhaps in protest) .
  The reason, I am at Uni and 11 years after I got this game, I still go into phases of playing it 
 nonstop completely distracing me from my work.
  
  As you should know from what I just said, the game is incredibly addictive.
  The variety of the 
 game is pretty immense. Every map has its own challenges as does the way you decide to play 
 your game. The technology research in particular is very flexible and is much more interesting 
 than the other civilizations as the number of requisites needed for a technology is fewer than 
 the other Civ games.
  A particular highlight is the board of advisors- real actors telling you about your empire, its 
 very funny and really unique.
  
  I dont really need to tell you what the game is all about, all you need to know that even after 
 so many years after its release, this game is very much worth playing.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Llarrev
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 27, 2007 2:46 pm PT
Review:  When I first played this game on my uncle's Windows 95 at the tender age of 4 this game amazed 
 me. I was unfamiliar with the original Civilization, and so it took me a while to get the swing 
 of it, under careful supervision of my uncle, who was pretty amazing at it. The huge number of 
 races to choose from, and the vast variety of units that one could manipulate into huge armies 
 was simply incredible. My uncle informed me that the combat system was far more realistic than 
 the original game, and the firepower and hit point score was reasonably effective, though of course 
 there were times when a far superior unit could be defeated by an inferior one. There are so many 
 little extras which work together to make Civilization II the excellent game that it is. The gameplay 
 was deep, highly addictive (I often found myself saying I'll play for just one more turn, then I 
 would uncover a new technology and one more turn would become 5, then 10 then I would be playing 
 for another hour) and the multiple difficulty levels provided a challenge for anyone. There was 
 also the map editor which provided the player with the opportunity to design their own map and 
 place their competition where they pleased, it could allow for a little cheapness, but never-the-less 
 an enjoyable experience. The unfortunate lack of multi-player is hardly noticed as it compensated 
 by the superb single-player. The game was great in terms of graphics, though nothing truly exceptional, 
 although I was quite taken with the FMV clips for civilization advances. The soundtrack was excellent, 
 and the sound effects, ranging from the trumpet elephant or the sound of a missile attack, were 
 a pleasant extra that contributed to the quality of the gaming experience.
  
  In short, a game to be placed in a higher league, a welcome addition to the collection any strategy 
 fan, and a possible opinion change of those not too keen on the genre. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SWT2008
Rating: 9.3
Date: May 6, 2007 7:41 pm PT
Review:  One of the most enthralling games ever released for the PC. Vast improvements were made from the 
 first Civilization. More civilizations, units, wonders, and much, much smoother gameplay. It has 
 been a while since I played the first one, but i do remember being thoroughly satisfied with the 
 improvements. I believe that this civilization is better than the third. beyond Emperor difficulty, 
 Civ 3 is virtually impossible. Also, civ 3 tends to get quite boring later on, while civ 2 seems 
 to be engaging throughout play. Civ 2 is the best of the series im sure. Civ 3 adds some neat things 
 here and there, but theres nothing like old school games sometimes. ANd civ 2 is one of my favorite 
 old schoolers . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Al_Pomo
Rating: 8.4
Date: Apr 17, 2007 6:28 pm PT
Review:  Not many games hold up for as long as this one. Just a few days ago, I played Civilization II for 
 the very first time, and I'm freakin' hooked. Despite obvious flaws such as the graphics, sound, 
 and slightly archaic controls, it remains very fun to play. Where in some turn-based strategy games, 
 the amount of needless convolution can actually hold the game back, Civ II manages to hold just 
 about the perfect blend of simplicity and complexity, and a nice sense of accomplishment keeps 
 you coming back for more. Personally, I don't even find the sound to be an issue, as I just turn 
 on my MP3 player (or go to an Internet radio station, such as Pandora. com) and just listen as I 
 waste away hours at a time. Basically, Civilization 2 rocks, so buy it! (or download it... something.) 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stAmbrosius
Rating: 8.1
Date: Feb 19, 2007 9:06 am PT
Review:  Civilization 2 is the best in the series. You start of the game with some settlers and then you 
 build a city. The city grows, you make new settlers, to make new cities. Soon you'll encounter 
 other tribes with whom you can exchange knowledge, or you can go to war. For war you need military 
 units. You start of with caveman and pretty soon you'll be building phalanx and catapults. There 
 are many diferent units you can build, but to do so you need knowledge so you have to do research. 
 Instead of military you can also provide your cities with all kinds of buildings. You can also 
 try to make a wonder of the world like the great wall of China or the pyramids. These provide your 
 people with special benefits. If you are running this game from the cd-rom you also get to see 
 small videoclips when you build a wonder of the world and you also get to see heralds of the tribes 
 you encounter during the game. The game has a lot of replay vallue and there are also historic 
 scenario's you can play if you are interested. When you play this game the time goes quickly. Not 
 only in real-life, it's a very addictive game, but also in the game. This i find is somewhat of 
 a petty. By the time the Roman centurions arrive you have already invented gunpowder. I think the 
 pace is a bit too fast. A nice thing about this game though, is that it's not too difficult like 
 some of the later Civilizations i have seen with too many too small menus and micromanagement. 
 This game is very playable. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: akazergling2
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 17, 2007 11:58 pm PT
Review:  I remember spending many weekends on the computer at my house enjoying every aspect of this classic. 
 A remarkable improvement from it's predecessor Civilization, Civ2 is a fun distraction in your 
 spare time.
  
  Gameplay - 9/10
  
  The Strategy involved in playing the upper difficulties in this game is immense. With a vast technology 
 tree most would expect that some tech could be skipped or isn't useful, however that isn't the 
 case. Each technology is important to the growth of your nation as a whole. Diplomacy is well balanced 
 and for the most part your allies will remain so and if you play your cards right your enemies 
 will soon be also. Building an infrastructure also proves an important part of building your nation. 
 Be a conquerer, explorer, researcher, even a trader and you can succeed if you do it well.
  
  Graphics - 8/10
  
  The graphics in Civilization 2 are spectacular by no means, of coarse 
 graphics aren't extremely important for a strategy game. The world wonder movies are very high 
 graphic for their time and is some of the best work graphic-wise in the game.
  
  Sound - 6/10
  
  The music in Civilization 2 is average, not bad but it will eventually wear 
 on you. The sound effects that units produce are mostly unique but again you won't notice them 
 after a while.
  
  Value - 10/10
  
  Since you can find Civ2 in almost any bargain bin you visit, you should have a problem getting 
 this game cheap. The game, however is worth every penny you pay and you will get hours of fun and 
 enjoyment out of it.
  
  Reviewer's Tilt - 10/10
  
  I still play Civilization 2 after having played every other game in the series, not because it's 
 more difficult but because it's revolutionary in the genre. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Prometheus92
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jan 28, 2007 11:09 am PT
Review:  Sid Mier's really had the ball rolling back in the 90's. It wouldn't suprise much that Civilization 
 II is one of the best games for Strategy ever made, and that I have ever played.
  
  Gameplay: 10
  
  AWESOME! I loved the gameplay. You can either choose from a few scenarios (e. g. 
 WW2, Rome, Alexander, etc) or you can create a random world, which characteristics you can control 
 to an extent. You found your first city and things immediately look up. The best concept is empire-ruling 
 in which one must expand, conquer, research technologies (from The Wheel to SDI Defenses!) . In 
 combat, it's time to get the big guns. Advance from warriors in the Ancient World to modern day 
 Armor and Stealth Bombers.
  
  Graphics: 7
  
  Ehh... I suppose the graphics were okay for the time. This is the worst concept of the game, even 
 though it is rated pretty high. You can create units pixel by pixel, add sounds, attack, defense, 
 etc. The graphics are essentially pixels, railroads look the same, and so do cities, regardless 
 of ethnic diversity. This is still a very good part of the game for the time.
  
  Sound: 10
  
  Sounds are great, when you complete a wonder, fight a battle, all of that, you 
 get a sound. They get repetitive after a while, but at least the sounds differ by unit, such as 
 Armor making explosion and rifle men you can hear rifles firing off.
  
  Value: 15
  
  Yes, that's right... I give it above and beyond for this category. It is just that good of a game. 
 If I was back in the day and you asked me to buy or rent, I would strangle you before the word 
 rent was blurted out of you mouth. You must buy this game, even now-a-days it is still addictive.
 
  
  I loved it, and maybe you will too if you like Turn-Based-Strategy 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Griffer38
Rating: 9.1
Date: Dec 12, 2006 4:08 pm PT
Review:  The Good: Highly, highly addictive gameplay; Lots of cool wonders you'll be desperate to build 
 before your opponents; Cool, complex combat system.
  
  The Bad: Graphics look bad even for 1996; Begins to wind down when you get around 1900's
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  
  The Civilization series was an ingenius idea brought to life by Sid Meiers. Civ II was one of the 
 building blocks that brought the series up to greatness. It can probably also be considered one 
 of the greatest turn-based strategy game or even strategy game period, of all time.
  
  It starts simple enough. To start a game you pick how big of a world you want and what kind of 
 nationality you want. Each nation has an important leader from the past. Pick America and you'll 
 have Abraham Lincoln, or pick the Babylonians and you'll have Hammurabi. These different nations 
 don't give you specific advantages, but it's still fun to play around with anyway. Once you get 
 all that stuff out of the way, you get to the fun stuff: building your civilization.
  
  You have a lot of different approaches you can take to this game, and many of them work well. You 
 could be a Genghis-Khan-type person and build a mighty army that will annihilate everything in 
 it's path. Or you could promote peace with your neighbors, and make lots of currency trading. You 
 could really approach this from a whole lot of different angles. A lot of what makes your civilization 
 run is your governments. There are several different governments, each with there own advantages 
 and disadvantages. Some let you make tons and tons of units without much penalty, but are somewhat 
 slow to research technology. Others have devastating penalties for units, but if you balance it 
 right, you could have computers in the 1850's. So a lot of the game will center around your governments.
 
  
  Graphically, this game wasn't so good. It's clean, but far too simple. The few times you'll be 
 talking to a spokesman from another civilization, it looks a lot better. But the game just looks 
 like it would be a computer version of a board game like Risk. Soundwise, it is a little better. 
 It runs through a soundtrack of maybe three minute songs without about ten or twelve songs. Some 
 have primitive drumbeats and native chanting and others are played with pipe organs, making it 
 feel like the Renaissance times. It would have been cooler, had the songs been mapped to specific 
 ages, but it's pretty cool as it is.
  
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  Gameplay: Fantasticly executed gameplay that will keep you stuck to your computer for hours at 
 a time.
  
  Graphics: Too simple for it's own good.
  
  Sound: Impressive music score.
  
  Value: You'll be playing this for a loooong time.
  
  Tilt: One of the greatest strategy 
 games of all time! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: soulbleed
Rating: 9.3
Date: Nov 3, 2006 7:05 pm PT
Review:  There is nothing better than sitting down in front of your PC and playing a high-quality strategy 
 game. The best game that proves this is the ever-addictive Civilization II. This game kept me glued 
 to my monitor during sittings of usually five to even twelve hours at a time, it just flies by 
 when you are playing. There really is no story to go along with the game, since this is strictly 
 build your civilization and rule the world.
  
  The gameplay here is some of the best that I have ever encountered. First of all, it is very simple 
 and that is not a bad thing. Creating units, roads, cities, and other things is just a matter of 
 clicking one or two times and moving on to more important things, such as diplomacy. Diplomacy 
 here is not very in-depth. This includes signing peace treaties or cease fires, threatening enemies, 
 negotiating bargains, and keeping your civilization safe. This also only requires a few simple 
 clicks and then you are on your way again. Fighting is played out between two units by moving into 
 a space your enemy occupies and watching to see if your unit outlasts the other's. That is really 
 all you need when having so many other things to do; you really do not want to sit there for a 
 few minutes while two units go at each other. The game also includes the Wonders of the World, 
 which include The Great Wall, Colossus, Hanging Gardens, Pyramids, etc. These come with short movies 
 that show off the grandeur of these spectacular accomplishments of the ancient and modern worlds. 
 They all have useful upgrades that you can use to gain an advantage over the competition. For example, 
 The Great Wall gives you a defense boost and in diplomacy, all civilizations are required to ask 
 for a peace treaty.
  
  The graphics here are nothing spectacular, but why should they be, they get the job done. Units 
 all have shields that designate their life and what civilization they are associated with, along 
 with certain characteristics that go along with that particular unit. Roads look like roads, cities 
 look like cities, and the land looks like land. Nothing more, nothing less. The most impressive 
 things graphically are the forementioned Wonder movies and going into city mode to see all that 
 you have built in a well-rendered display.
  
  The sounds made during fighting are less than spectacular, but you can still tell what they are. 
 The music is what stands out, but can get really repetitive once you play the game for awhile. 
 Other than that, there is not much else to say about it.
  
  This is gaming at its best right here. Not only is it fun, but it is also addictive; I am sure 
 anyone can vouch for that. I have spent countless hours trying to conquer the world, on all sets 
 of difficulties and all sorts of terrain and maps. It also comes with its own map editor in case 
 you get bored with the existing maps and want to build new ones. There is no end to the possibilities 
 of what you can do in this game. Recommended to everyone, I cannot praise this game enough. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AFWorm
Rating: 9.2
Date: Sep 28, 2006 10:41 pm PT
Review:  You would never think that a turn-based strategy game would be so addictive! But after the first 
 Civilization, it seemed that Sid Meier knew what he was doing. With Civ II sporting the same attributes 
 as the first, it was clear that Sid had a great formula. The goal is to create an awesome civilization 
 and rule the world in one way or another, dealing with building and managing cities, protecting 
 your lands, conquering other countries, and making discoveries to allow for more improvements. 
 Even though it is turn-based, there is plenty to do in each turn to keep the player's mind constantly 
 devising a way to win. And the further one gets in the game, the more there is to manage each turn! 
 Good thing the save feature is convenient!
  
  Civ II has a great amount of balance within its structure. Usually a poor balanced rts would allow 
 for a player to find pretty easily a hole in the rock, paper, scissors formula, thus allowing for 
 monotonous play. Due to the balance of the units and tech advances, there is never a one simple 
 pattern to win. Also, with the different goals to conquerer the world, the player cannot always 
 rely on the way he won the previous game. So, while the player is focusing on world domination, 
 another country could be completing a rocket to win the space race; or they could be raking in 
 the culture to win over the world. Of course, since the player must deal with so much, it takes 
 a while to get fully up to speed. With the cleverness throughout and the immersive gameplay, this 
 game will naturally be a favorite among those who are up to a challenge. Of course, that is if 
 they haven't played Civ III &amp; IV. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Seraphim591
Rating: 9.1
Date: Aug 27, 2006 5:14 pm PT
Review:  I just stopped playing Civ IV a few hours back, and switched to Civ II. Want to know why? Read 
 ahead. Civilization II isn't just any game, it was a classic the minute it came out, and it still 
 is one - 11 years later! How many games can say that? How many games can say that after a decade 
 there are still people playing them? I doubt there are very many. But Civ II can say that - with 
 a smile on it's face. 
  
  Civilization II is the second installment in the Civ series, where you start the game as a tiny 
 civilization just crawling out of it's cradle. It's up to you to build the greatest nation on the 
 planet in any way you see fit. You can make war, you can ally yourself with the strongest or you 
 can technologically outpace them all - and easily crush them if you so desire. 
  
  The game is turn based and if you play a big map with numerous civs, it can take up to several 
 days to finish. But it never get's boring, while the beginning may seem boring it's only so, because 
 you have little to watch over. But as the years go by, your nation will boast dozens of cities 
 and countless units to manage - it's a task not for the weak of mind. 
  
  So, let's break this review down: 
  
  Gameplay - 10
  
  I'm not going to lie about the fact 
 that I have spent days and days, clued to the screen - just wanting to play that one more turn. 
 Even though my glory days with this game were a decade ago, I still surprised even myself by the 
 fact how long this game kept me looking at the screen today. It's amazing. 
  
  Little details like the high council - portrayed by real actors, beautiful videos for wonders and 
 great music really triumph over the Civilizations newer installments. I see no reason to not play 
 Civ II. 
  
  Graphics - 4
  
  The game's over a decade old - what would you expect? 
  
  Sound - 10
  
  Perfect! From the simple yet nice unit sounds, to the beautiful soundtracks 
 of wonders. It will keep your ears embedded in great tunes. 
  
  Value - 10
  
  If you have lost count of how many hundred hours you have played this game - then it's safe to 
 say, that this game has tremendous value. 
  Tilt - 10 This is one of my most favourite games, a score less than perfect would be an insult. 
 
  
  Civilization II kept it simple, the game is perfectly balanced and offers quick and constant rewards 
 for your actions. 
  You wont be trying to scavenge critical resources or trying to clear that messy forest like you 
 do in Civ IV. 
  You won't have to ponder how you are going to build up the land around your cities or worry about 
 the cities health levels because those banana trees that boast health are in your opponents cultural 
 borders. 
  Civ II is much simpler - yet is has depth that it's followers have not been able to reproduce. 
 Civilization II is a massive game, you will not end the game owning 10 cities like you might in 
 Civ IV, you'll end the map with hundreds if you are good enough. And there is nothing more rewarding 
 then looking upon the map and see nothing but your colors everywhere as you watch your spaceship 
 leave for Alpha Centauri or your enemy's last city surrendering to your forces. Get this game if 
 you can find it. Look past the ancient graphics and enjoy the immensely addictive gameplay. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JimmyMcNitties
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 16, 2006 1:11 pm PT
Review:  Civilization II out of any game out there, has consumed most of my time and energy, and in reflection, 
 I would do it again in a heartbeat. I have played easily over 2000+hours over a 5 + year period 
 and I can definitively say that this is the greatest game ever made. I have played hundreds of 
 games over every genre but Civilization II stands above the rest. The customizability, the strategy, 
 the expansions, the music, the graphics, the sounds the intoxicating atmosphere and of course, 
 Elvis. It is ridiculously versatile in that, it can be played over and over (as you can see that 
 I have done) without getting boring or repetitive. From battling the Mongols to having a drawn 
 out Engagement against the Vikings, which lasted from Archers to Armor, Civilization II delivers 
 the whole package, and even 10 years later; I would recommend this game to anyone for any reason 
 at any time. Thank You Sid Meier for giving us the "Game to Stand the Test of Time" and God Bless 
 the Civilization series! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: trip1eX
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jul 27, 2006 6:24 pm PT
Review:  Civ2 hit close to perfection 10 years ago. The gameplay was complex enough yet remained accessible. 
 Oh they could use some management improvements like the ability to group units or improve the AI/government 
 so your democracy doesn't issue a mandatory peace treaty when you know darn well the computer is 
 going to attack you.
  
  Again tho they had nearly the perfect game. They just had to work on refining it. 
  
  The problem 
 wtih the news Civs like the IV one is they just tacked on a bunch of extra crap that really doesn't 
 add any fun to the game. IT just adds a bunch more options that really don't serve any great in 
 depth purpose. Civ IV is a victim of feature creep imo. Less one thinks the 200 page Civ2 manual 
 didn't have enough features. ????
  
  I would rather they gave Civilization the Pirates treatment. Update the graphics. Add a few new 
 touches, but for the most part leave the game intact and don't add a biliion new features. Spend 
 all your dough on tweaking the AI, adding a couple interface improvements and doing the multiplayer 
 stuff. Make the game run great. That's another area in which Civ2 shines too. It runs like hotcakes. 
 It's so quick. Civ IV is a turtle in comparison. 
  
  Civ2 also shows you alot more of the map than Civ IV. So that's another step backwards as well. 
 
  
  Ah well if you haven't checked out Civ2 do so. It's more fun imo. 10 yr old grahics and all.
 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: mavediss
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jul 26, 2006 7:15 pm PT
Review:  By the time we already have Civilization IV available and also willing to play the first expansion 
 - Warlords - I prompted myself to drop a review about a previous version. 
  Civilization II was a huge step forward since the engine is now presents you a 3D scenario. So 
 the graphics are a great improvement and looks excellent. There is nothing to worry about the sounds 
 since they follow the graphics upgrade. You have something like 20 civilizations to choose from 
 and start growing building cities, making discoveries, trading and conquering territory. The main 
 objective of the game is to build a space ship to reach alpha centaury but the game also ends you 
 destroy all other civilizations, get you civ destroyed or if you retire at any time. At the end 
 of the game you receive a score that became a percentage that says if you was (or not) a good leader. 
 Of course this particular version is out of date but it still has gameplay and shoes great improvement 
 over the first release and also over any other game in this genre. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Science2000luke
Rating: 10
Date: May 12, 2006 9:02 am PT
Review:  This game is addicitve and I can; t stop playing it. My school perfomrance is lagging, my hygene 
 is worsening and I cannot get up to go eat or anywhere else. Help me!!! I am glued to this seat! 
 All I do is sleep and play Civ 2!! AAAHAHHHH!!!!!
  
  But I cannot stop playing it. WHen I do, it calls me and wants to be played. I want to crush the 
 CD -ROM!! OH NO!! It wants to be played now, NNOOOOO!!!! HELP MEEEEEEEE! I want to break free, 
 I want to stop playing it, I want to, I want to, I want to........... HEEEELP, its tentacles are 
 enclosing me and pulling me to play   
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: puremage1209
Rating: 9.7
Date: Apr 23, 2006 5:32 pm PT
Review:  The game is an amazing game. There is a lesson to be learned from it. It teaches the value and 
 nesesities of running something. The graphics are ok, but are good for their time. The sound is 
 good and it is triggered by events in the game and the high coulsel takldes hillariously about 
 random stuff. It is worth picking up a copy because you can get it for about 10 dollars. You can 
 build alliences and sighn peace treaties, and work behind someones back. Build an army and conquor 
 the enemies and help your allies kill your enemies. There are a variety of campaigns you can do. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: willdemers
Rating: 9.4
Date: Mar 20, 2006 4:40 pm PT
Review:  Civilization II was a gem.
  
  This game, as old-school as it was, was so very appropriate for the genre. It took the basic ideas 
 from Colonization (a legendary game in itself) and updated it to be appropriate for a new generation 
 strategy game of this type.
  
  In this game you play as one of many civilizations starting from the dawn of humanity and into 
 the post-modern era of the early 21st century. The game focuses on territorial expansion and technological 
 mastery.
  
  Additionally, the game keeps players hooked with diplomatic discussions between leaders of other 
 nations and AI that can mean trade relations with one nation and hostilities with another.
  
  This game is a hands down classic and unfortunately all the attempts to remake this game better 
 have not done much good. Sure, Civ III & IV are a lot of fun, and they have better graphics. But 
 is there anything new beyond cultural and religious themes? I agree they were good additions, but 
 nothing new besides that.
  
  The gaming industry needs to come up with some original ideas. Civ II wasn't even that original 
 in its day, but at least they remade the Civilization game properly. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: grasu
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 2, 2006 7:40 am PT
Review:  Civilization 2 was released in 1996 and it was pretty much a smash hit. It's been dominating PC 
 Gamers ''Best 50 Games of All Time'' chart for years. It has thousands of fans and an active community 
 who still root for it today, and to be quite honest, it's still the best damn TBS ever.
  
  Graphics: 9/10
  
  The only gripe I have with the graphics is the fact that units are not animated, 
 but for a game from 1996 that's way more then acceptable.
  
  Other wise, the graphics are great. The units are well drawn and they have heavy detail (not to 
 mention theres several dozen of'em) . Cities and city views look great and for that matter, so 
 does the surrounding territory and the overall map. In a few short words: The game looks great: 
 As good now as it did more than 8 years ago.
  
  There are also some very nifty wonder movies that depict pictures off all kinds of wonders that 
 appear in the game: A simple but lovely touch.
  
  Sound: 6/10
  
  The sound barely passes as anything more then Adlib quality.
  
  The sound effects of many of 
 the units are all the same and so are the sounds of the cities and some of the ''anthems'' of the 
 different nations in the game.
  
  Speaking about music, this game has very little of it and, safe for the Wonder Movies music, all 
 of it sucks.
  
  Gameplay: 10/10
  
  The gameplay in Civ 2 is pretty much perfect, from the economical side of things to the war making 
 mechanics.
  
  The basic setup of all Civ games is... well... basic. The purpose of the game is to win by either 
 conquest or by sending a space ship to Alpha Centauri. Civ 2, unlike Civ 3, does not make an exception 
 to this rule, in any way. So pretty much you can either kick everyones ass or be a tree-hugging 
 pacifist and hope no one kicks your ass before you get to send a ship in space. You of course research 
 technologies, advance your race, build better military, improve economically, etc. through the 
 course of the game.
  
  Each of these elements are perfectly intertwined and implemented within the game. Never will you 
 actually feel overwhelmed, or lost, because you won't know what to research or what to do. The 
 game starts you off by giving you either 1 or 2 settlers that can build cities, roads or irrigate 
 the planes for you. From the moment on you begin the game; the strategy is seamlessly interwoven 
 in the engine.
  
  Choosing a favorable start location, where you have access to food, water, rivers, resources and 
 production is crucial to your advancement, but at the same time it's not a do or die decision that 
 will make you think 2 hours before choosing a place to settle. After you settled you get to choose 
 what to build or what to research first. You can now change taxes, governments (if you researched 
 new types of government) or just explore the map, make friends with everyone, and just plain simply 
 sit there until the game finishes. That may not necessarily be fun, but this game lets you do it 
 if you so wish too.
  
  Granted when you begin to pursue some kind of victory, you will find out why Civ 2 is so good. 
 From the moment you research Iron Working you can build swordsman and invade your neighbors, meanwhile 
 back at home you build cities to increase your amount of gold that you receive from taxes or the 
 amount of scientifical bonuses each turn. From the ''get go'' the game flows seamlessly through 
 3 ages (ancient-medieval, industrial, modern) and at least 100 technologies.
  
  Which gets me to the best part of Civ., research. The acquisition of another advancement is such 
 a fulfilling achievement, that after you get it in the game, you wont stop playing for hours at 
 an end. Techs. allow you to build more and better troops, wonders, and improvements. Change your 
 type of government, improve the terrain, or many other wonderful things that technology brings 
 (like pollution) . Tech. takes time to research; city improvements such as Libraries, Universities 
 and Research Labs increase the amount of science income each turn. So does adjusting taxes or increasing 
 the population of your cities.
  
  City building is another important aspect of Civ 2. Cities can be improved by building wonders 
 (special buildings that give you special bonuses and can only be built by one nation) , regular 
 city improvements (such as aqueducts, barracks, granaries, libraries) , and defense structures. 
 Cities also harbor trade networks, they produce different goods and require others in exchange, 
 and thus you can build expansive trade networks within your own borders or between you and your 
 allies.
  
  Trading is an essential part of Civ 2, it produces gold and gives cities that cant produce enough 
 food to support themselves supplies so that the citizens don't starve and die. Trading can also 
 be used to complete wonders faster or to improve diplomatic relationships with your neighbors. 
 Trade can only be conducted through caravans, which is ultimately both a plus and a minus as the 
 computer has the irrational tendency of destroy all caravans that cross their borders at war, totally 
 disregarding rules of engagement.
  
  Of course in human history the most determining factor is, was, and always will be war... and it's 
 pretty much the same in Civ 2. In Civ 2 war is as much fun as any other part of the game. Chances 
 are you will engage in some kind of warfare in any type of Civ game you play, and if you do you 
 should feel very, very happy. Why you ask? Well because Civ 2 has a huge amount of units. It also 
 offers a stupendous simulation of the tactics used in any war, modern or ancient.
  
  Units each have 3 attributes: Attack/Defense/Movement (ADM) . All of those statistics are influenced 
 by the type of terrain they sit on, for example: A unit on a mountain has a higher defense when 
 attacked and a better attack when attacking, but it looses all movement once it moves off the mountain. 
 Combat units also get defense and attack bonuses in other situations, such as when guarding cities 
 or attacking enemy battalions in rivers. Units also range from Stone Age rock throwers to modern 
 nuclear bombs and the game even takes in account the implications of starting nuclear warfare or 
 the expenditures of maintaining an army.
  
  What would combat be without worthy opponents though? Well, not too much fun that's for sure, and 
 it's safe to say that the AI in Civ 2 is challenging enough. However its no Civ 3.
  
  Government is also an important part of Civ 2; each government type has its own benefits, for 
 example: Democratic governments earn more money but can't just go around declaring war; they must 
 get Senate to approve the actions first. And no folks, there's no 90-day rule in Civ 2, if the 
 Senate doesn't approve war, well you'll be witnessing the AI building cities in between yours and 
 taking away all their food. On the other hand if you decide to be a Communist you can declare war 
 whenever you want, but you can only set that taxes to a maximum of 80% and you get less money from 
 your cities.
  
  Diplomacy is also an important part of Civ 2, it's a little on the skimpy side, but it does the 
 job. You can sign any treaties from Trade Agreements, to Cease fires, to Alliances, or even create 
 NATOs against whoever's stepping on your nerves. You can exchange both maps and tech with the AI 
 if it so decides or if you want too. The problem here is that the AI doesnt want to do anything 
 of the sort most of the time. Its stubborn, and it must have its demands met, even if youre armed 
 to the teeth and the only thing it has are swordsmen and pikemen.
  
  However the gameplay is not perfect. Among the other problems the AI has it doesn't take advantage 
 of trade routes or food supplies, which means that it will have lv. 16 cities by the time you have 
 lv. 40 and growing cities. Also the AI doesn't know how to react well to an expanding player: If 
 you keep on expanding, by the Middle Ages the AI won't be much of a challenge. Other than that 
 though, the gameplay in Civ 2 is the closest thing to perfection that the genre has ever witnessed.
 
  
  Multiplayer: 9/10
  
  Both hot seat, email, and Gamespy games are great granted you can find anyone that is willing to 
 spend 4-8 hours on a game, which is just about the only fault of the multiplayer... it's way too 
 damn long.
  
  You can end up spending 2 or 3 times as much time while playing a human than when playing by yourself. 
 On the other hand, human players are generally way better than the AI on any difficulty.
  
  Overall: 9/10
  
  The biggest question that centers on the Civ series is weather or not Civ 
 2 is: a) the best TBS ever-created b) better then Civ 3... I think I can safely answer yes to both 
 questions. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mnkyking
Rating: 9.4
Date: Feb 19, 2006 6:21 pm PT
Review:  This game is awesome. Anyone who likes RTSs and Sims should try this game out. It's turn based 
 city building, army making fun with solid gameplay, and unlike other earlier games still compares 
 well with modern games. The only issue that players could have are with the well-dated graphics. 
 A definate must buy available in basically any bargain bin. I have nothing left to say about this 
 game, so I will tell you a story to use up my word limit:
  
  Alright, so I borrowed the game from my friend Nathan and burned it, and put the original CD in 
 my backpack. I forgot about it, and when I finally remebered it was broken. He got mad and was 
 like I'm gonna sue you and get your dad in jail cause you burned the CD, and he's like I want 20 
 dollars for it. But a couple days later at lunchtime he wanted to buy nachos and needed 10 more 
 cents so he told me if I gave him 10 cents my debt was repaid. LOL, what an ass :) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hitman187x
Rating: 9.4
Date: Feb 16, 2006 6:51 am PT
Review:  Civilization II was the first game in the series for me. I actually found it at a local thrift 
 store for $2. Being a fan of strategy games since a child, I couldn't wait to get home and try 
 this out. I played 9 hours straight that first session, and wondered where in the world I had been 
 that I hadn't heard of this game before?!
  There are so many fascinating details, it would be near impossible to rate all of them in one review. 
 Needless to say, this is one game anybody could fall in love with.
  You can pick your starting civ, from ancient Romans led by Caesar to the Americans led by Abe Lincoln. 
 First turn is 4000 B. C. Build a city, fortify it with warriors, send out workers to tend the land 
 and build roads, and search for more prime real estate to settle as your people multiply. The object 
 of course is to dominate the world by any means possible, through war or diplomacy.
  Wonders of the world can be built, like the Great Pyramids or the Great Library. Each wonder comes 
 with its own special attributes which add to your city, or sometimes every city.
  Technology is a primary concern. Every so often your wisemen will discover a new art, and 6000 
 years ago, having the alphabet made you an advanced civilization! Eventually more modern sciences 
 come into play, based on how much research you're willing to pay for. Learning how to make gunpowder 
 can turn the tide in a war, but figuring out sanitation can keep your people healthy.
  There is also an editor, for making custom scenarios. It's possible to recreate our own history 
 with a map of the Earth and resources placed in the right locales. This is a fun option for trying 
 to create a "utopia".
  I highly recommend this game for everyone, but be forewarned: your schedule will be rewritten. 
 This is one addiction they need an 800 number for! * * * * 
::::::

::::::
UserName: regulesblade
Rating: 5
Date: Feb 7, 2006 3:27 pm PT
Review:  The second game to the Civilizations line of video games brings many new benefits that have not 
 been seen in the game prior to this one. The biggest upgrade would have to be the graphics to the 
 game as they are much better this time around than they were in the predecessor game. Other upgrades 
 that have been done would definately have to be the number of different groups that you can now 
 use within the game. These different races or ethnicies bring in many other changes to the main 
 gameplay that allow you to experiment with the game. Besides that Civilization II is still a very 
 solid game, however I wouldn't really recommend it to anyone in this day and age because the game 
 itself can be considered as obsolete. The two sequel games to this one are much better as they 
 utilize a lot more cutting edge technology and deliver better to its players. However for those 
 who don't have cutting edge computers, this game can still work. Although I would like to bid you 
 good luck on finding it in stores. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gamecubedave000
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jan 8, 2006 9:18 am PT
Review:  i remeber back in the day when this game came out on the Play station and it was a pretty cool 
 game! then a couple years later i got it on PC and it was the best game i ever played in my life.. this 
 game is so amazing and you will play for hours and hours!!! You can chose a what you are like Americans 
 Or Chinese and tons tons more!! and you go from warriors to tanks and steam boats to battle ships! 
 you can discover new technology and make your country grow and grow and grow!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! 
 its so cool!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gladiatrix
Rating: 9.8
Date: Dec 28, 2005 10:41 am PT
Review:  Simply great, I love this game, the difference with other is the reality of it. The time lime, 
 the movements by squares... all that gives a charm some kind of true strategy to it, not like other 
 games like The Age of Empires series (... but i love them anyway) were the unit's movement is free, 
 without limitations and there's no "turns", that makes it more easy. Civilization give a new remark 
 in strategy bringing the best of the classic civilizations.
  
  To be a winner in this game, u' gotta be quite and have a lot of pacience to be able to think r' 
 movements in order to make correct descicion that results in coquest and wealth.
  
  .... Play! Conquer!... Command!... YEAH! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: monkeytoes61
Rating: 9.3
Date: Nov 27, 2005 1:48 pm PT
Review:  This game is absalutly fantastic. Its kept me sitting in front of a computer all day long. It takes 
 some inteligince and smarts to win. I enjoy yelling dirty words at those fricking Zulus. Man they 
 piss me off. Theres so many twists and turns that it will keep you glued to your seat for hours. 
 Deastroy civilizations, make freinds, build wonders of the worlds, theres so much to do. Im sure 
 this game is well worth the cost and very addicting. I hope you consider buying this game (or the 
 newer versions 3 and 4) . Trust me, its a fantastic game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: frontball
Rating: 8.1
Date: Nov 23, 2005 7:55 am PT
Review:  Civilization 2 is definitely another classic, but for some reason it just isn't as involving as 
 the first one. 
  
  The gameplay in this one was hardly changed except for new technologies, vast new numbers of units 
 and all sorts of ways to define a unique civilization.
  The game makes for months of gameplay and days of strategy refining (unless you're a strategy guide 
 addict... for shame!) . Another new trait of this game that, unfortuneatly, took away from gameplay, 
 was the steelness of it all. The game wasn't very involving at all. The cities always looked EXACTLY 
 the same, meeting with other leaders showed an ancient picture of them with a wierd diplomat focused 
 on moving enthusiastically to express his/her feelings. But, the animated council provided amusement 
 and the wonder movies were, well, wonderful!
  
  The graphics were well done and the addition of the movies made for a beautiful looking game. The 
 cities were lacking however, and the units were still just pictures.
  
  The sound was a definite step up from the first in the series. The units now had fairly diverse 
 and fitting battle sounds and there was some constant background music (however repetetive) . But, 
 all of the ingame music seemed to have a blandness to it.
  
  All in all, a very good game, and you'll be addicted nonetheless, just be prepared for a LONG night! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: s2w
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 4, 2005 8:56 pm PT
Review:  one of the original great rts games. i started playing this game almost obsessively in 1998. some 
 people don't like it when a game lasts for a week, but if it's a good one...
  
  i loved racing against the other civilizations to build all of the wonders of the world so that 
 i could watch the mini movies. didn't really care for upgrading my palace. my other favorite part 
 was overwhelming my enemy's city with a massive siege. i never got to the point where i mastered 
 the later elements in the  but i liked the airports.
  
  the graphics were good for 10 years ago; the characters looked good at their scale, and the 
 sounds were adequate for the fighting (although repetitive) . i also enjoyed playing the alternate 
 scenarios (aliens, wwii, bacteria) . we'll see if civ4 lives up to the hype. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ken5929
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 4, 2005 7:44 pm PT
Review:  I find my self playing this one every chance I can . I amhaving fun on this learning not to use 
 my mouse As much as I do in my other games. This is a must Game for everyone so take the chance 
 and realy go for it as I find the play fun you'"ll Find this one to you are missing one of the 
 best. Game ever I know as I can put time into play these games as I a disable Vet I could just 
 pull your legs and keep sing how great this game is but the nurd will be here soon happy gamming. 
 kaj. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheSergeant
Rating: 9.4
Date: Oct 23, 2005 7:00 am PT
Review:  To start, Civilization II was the first "modern" PC game I ever owned. I saw a demo of the game 
 on display in a local computer store so I gave it a try. I was only about 11 years old back then 
 and by the time my parents finished their shopping and came to find me, I had been playing for 
 an hour straight without even realizing it. This is an example of how addictive the game was, and 
 still is today for those who want to go back and give it another go.
  
  Now, as I was so young, the main things that appealed to me in the game were the unit battles, 
 watching the built wonder videos, naming my cities, and upgrading my throne room. However, as I 
 continued to play the game on and off for the next few years I started to get a taste for the educational 
 side of the game as well. I would not go so far as to say that my interest in world history today 
 is owed to Civ II, but I believe it contributed.
  
  The game allows you to play as pretty much every early civilization that ever existed. Some nations 
 (or factions, if you prefer) that exist today are not featured in the game; such as Canada or Australia, 
 because they are essentially colonies of the British Commonwealth. However, you do have the option 
 to create custom factions such as these at the start of the game. One of the disappointing sides 
 of the game is that there are only about 4 early civilization design phenotypes. For example; Aztec 
 and Native American cities will have the same adobe-style design, as will the Greeks and Americans 
 with Roman-style design. Also, once your civilization advances to the industrial age and beyond, 
 each faction's city design will be exactly the same, with no cultural deviations in design unless 
 you happen to have built a culturally accurate wonder.
  
  Civ II does offer some unique properties on that note. Building cultural wonders is not restricted 
 to historically accurate factions, any nation or empire can build them. For example, you can have 
 the Great Pyramids looming over Washington D. C. or have Shakespeares theatre situated in Hong 
 Kong. The wonders you can build in the game also come with their own video segment that plays upon 
 completion. While these videos are composed mainly of stock footage, most of them have heartfelt 
 musical accompaniment that can really make you marvel at creations we often take for granted.
 
  
  There is also a diplomacy factor to the game, whenever one of your units happens upon the unit 
 of another faction, diplomatic relations are automatically initiated and a separate screen with 
 an animated 3D ambassador from the other culture pops up along with a multiple choice options bar. 
 Diplomacy/politics in Civ II centres a lot on bribery and threats (much like real life politics, 
 I suppose) and you can often get what you want from your "friendly neighbouring nations" with a 
 few well-placed monetary gifts or a threat of ICBM attack. That's another thing, the first faction 
 to successfully build and use a nuclear device in the game instantly gets a plethora of political 
 backlash from the other factions that ranges from cease-fire requests to demands for sharing the 
 technology. This can cause some bizarre situations though. Personally, I nearly fell out of my 
 chair laughing when Chief Running Bull demanded I give him nuclear capability.
  
  On the home front, running your cities can be quite straight forward and easy as all you really 
 need to do is make sure there are enough farms around your cities to feed the populous. You can 
 also micro-manage your cities so that they only allocate a set number of citizens to farming and 
 a set number to entertain the masses or you can build trade caravans to pull in needed natural 
 resources from neighbouring allied factions. There is also a live video-driven council at your 
 disposal that consists of your research, commerce, military, entertainment, and foreign affairs 
 advisors. Each of which modify their appearance and opinions as your civilization progresses or 
 as specific situations dictate. The council feature, in my opinion, was a very sophisticated feature 
 to let non micro-manager players know what needed to be done while offering a fair bit of comic 
 relief at the same time (especially in the case of the entertainment advisor) .
  
  To summarize; Civ II offers some great new features to the strategy genre and retains a high amount 
 of addictiveness at the same time. It may fall short to those seeking accurate historical re-enactment, 
 but that would be its only major shortcoming. I would highly recommend this game to anyone looking 
 to get introduced to the genre. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: velociguardian
Rating: 9.3
Date: Oct 22, 2005 11:13 am PT
Review:  Civilization II was my first Civ game ever, and Im pretty sure I wouldnt love so much Civ if 
 I started with any other game of the series.
  
  Although Civilization II may be graphically old, it has many good points that make it a very nice 
 game to play. The tutorial gives you a general overview of what you must do not to have a terrible 
 first game, but its not indispensable at all. The first time you play the game youll do so many 
 mistakes that youll get surprised how you managed to get so far in the game, in fact its one 
 of the best things in the game for beginners, the easy level is really easy and lets you feel you 
 are not a beginner.
  
  When you get used to the game and its "secrets" (which are explained by the splendid Civilopedia, 
 which also has descriptions to all the technologies, wonders and etc.) you will find out that the 
 wonders are one of the most important aspects of the game, if not the most important one. Wonders 
 give you special abilities, like letting you upgrade your armies for free, but some of them expire 
 when you or your rivals reach a certain technology. The different levels of difficult also makes 
 the AI of the computer variable; in lower difficulties your rivals will try to become your ally 
 when you are the most powerful nation, and in higher levels they will stick together in order to 
 destroy you! The game has a weak point; your territory is determined by your cities, and all of 
 them have the same area, even if they have different sizes, this allow other players to build cities 
 right inside your empire, which doesnt happen in newer Civilizations.
  
  The game also lets you create you own scenario, which may make you spend lots of time creating 
 everything to play later, even though creating modern worlds is very boring. The game is hard to 
 get bored with, once you can advance easily in the game, making you want to play it again to expand 
 your civilization a bit more, and as you expand and become technologically advanced more time is 
 spent playing each turn. The game can also be played many times, once you may want to see some 
 differences between civilizations (and there are some, which are represented by the leaders personality) , 
 e. g., the Mongols always tend to be more aggressive at the early game, creating lots of cities, 
 while other civilizations will develop a few cities.
  
  There are few bugs in this game, and none of them make it impossible to play. Civilization II was 
 a wonderful experience, and is recommended to everyone, specially now that the game is very cheap, 
 once newer versions have been released. 
  
  ---Velociguardian --- 
::::::

::::::
UserName: salqadri
Rating: 9.8
Date: Oct 19, 2005 6:17 pm PT
Review:  Damn I miss this game. It is the most addictive game ever created to this date, and with Civilization 
 IV coming out in 5 days, I am excited that it is bringing back several features from Civilization 
 II, which btw was a lot better than Civ III in almost every way. The best concept from Civ III, 
 the concept of Culture, is something desired in Civ II now, when I play it again, but other than 
 that, it still has a replayability that far exceeds Civ III or any other game in general for that 
 matter. If you are looking for unlimited replayability, and addiction, try this classic once more.
 
  
  Oh, and I loved the council, and all the videos. Too bad the council doesnt return in Civ IV, but 
 atleast the videos are. One thing missing in Civ II that was in Civ I, is the excellent replay 
 feature at the end of the game. Civ II has it, but its graphs are flawed and replay feature very 
 limited in general. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dbjunior92
Rating: 9.6
Date: Sep 22, 2005 10:23 am PT
Review:  I'll give an uncharacteristic overall summary style review, as this game is 10 years old at the 
 writing of this review.
  
  Few games have stood the test of time like Civilization II has. The customization, the scenarios 
 put together by loyal CivFanatics... All these factors make the game one that endures. The soundtrack 
 is immersive, the gameplay is deep, and the game itself is an absolute treasure. Even today one 
 can have hours of fun with it. There are more user-created scenarios to Civ2 than one can possibly 
 play in their lifetime. There's light years more depth, and breadth than its predecessor, and this 
 game deserves a spot in the "greatest of all time" category.
  
  Sid Meier has done for the gaming industry what Moses did for the slaves of Egypt.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: IronRhino
Rating: 9.9
Date: Sep 7, 2005 3:51 am PT
Review:  When I got Civ 3, there were two copies of this game in the box. I figured I'd play Civ 2 then 
 Civ 3 so I could enjoy both and I ended up liking Civ 2 more. 
  
  You can spend hours upon hours trying different strategies and approaches. You can create several 
 huge cities filled with wonders or have the biggest military in the world and you can win with 
 both. This game is so addicting and foreign relations can turn into somewhat of a soap opera if 
 you want (unless the senate gets in the way.)
  
  I'd definitely try and find this game and spend hours playing it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MN
Rating: 9.3
Date: Mar 25, 2005 5:33 am PT
Review:  I'm STILL playing it after all these years. Simple yet highly addictive. I like better than Civ 
 3 which seems to have fairness issues in single player mode. This is the best in the series & THE 
 STANDARD for all turned based games. A true masterpiece.
  For anyone who has been on another planet the last few years & don't know what Civ is about. It 
 is a turned based strategy game where you control all aspects of your civilization including trade, 
 science, military, government type, & peace treaties. Decisions affect your civs' development & 
 capalities. The better your civ is developed the more advanced your units & capable your citizens. 
 You build military units or city improvements & explore uncharted territory to reveal the map. 
 When meeting with other civilizations you decide between peace or war, but beware of betrayal! 
 My first game India betrayed me & hit me with a surprise nuclear attack on my capital. I've been 
 hooked ever since. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
