-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Civilization II: Test of Time
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/strategy/civilization2testoftime/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Aug 26, 1999
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 4.2
Critic Score: 6.8, 14 Review (s)
User Score: 7.1, 251 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Hasbro Interactive
Developer: MicroProse
Genre: Historic Turn-Based...
Date:     Jul 31, 1999
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
They screwed around with Civilization and made it worse. 

 Civilization is probably my all-time favorite game. It is elegantly simple but far-reaching in scope 
 and has virtually limitless depth. Few games have ever come so close to perfection, let alone in 
 their first attempt. Of course Civilization II improved on the original, but only by filling in 
 a few blanks rather than by revolutionizing the concept. And now that the Civilization concept 
 is so refined, there is no excuse for milking the franchise and gouging us for another $40 only 
 to force us to play the same damn game again, only with new names for the units and technology 
 advances. I already own Civilization and Civilization II. I don't want to buy a carbon copy.  

 
 The fact is I tried my best to play Test of Time. I really did. I tried the fantasy game. I tried 
 the science fiction game. And I dabbled in the Midgard fantasy scenario. I think it was sort of 
 clever for the designers to add quests in the game and restrict certain units to certain races. 
 The Mermen are the only ones that get certain underwater units, the winged Buteo are the only ones 
 that get key flying creatures, and the Goblins are the only ones with the larger, more brutish 
 foot soldiers. There are also new worlds to explore and colonize. But rather than being pleased 
 with these almost clever changes, I was exceedingly annoyed. The unit names and technological restrictions 
 make no intuitive sense, and the new worlds just add to the tedium. They screwed around with Civilization 
 and made it worse.  

 The worst part about this game is that you simply cannot play any of the nontraditional games without 
 always having the massive technology poster open and at hand. The designers renamed practically 
 everything, and nothing makes sense anymore. In Civilization, you made informed choices in research 
 based on your strategy. You could go for warrior code for strong military units, or you could go 
 for writing to get diplomats. Try for a granary to boost growth or a temple to stave off riots. 
 But in Test of Time's fantasy and sci-fi games, you can't make such intuitive decisions. You are 
 constantly hobbled by the game's naming conventions. Even the poster doesn't always help, because 
 the military units themselves are also renamed. Sagas lead to Ideograms, and that naturally leads 
 to Beast Dominion, right? Do you know what the sorcerer unit is? It's like an airplane or a nuclear 
 missile, for it can float over terrain but crashes if it doesn't land in a city. That makes no 
 sense, and in fact, few or none of these naming changes make the game the least bit better.  

 
 Yes, not all the new names are nonsensical, like warcraft and horse breeding. But why rename warrior 
 code to warcraft anyway? Why change horseback riding to horse breeding? It's ridiculous. Why rename 
 the granary, such a vital structure in the early game, to a storehouse? Why screw around with what 
 gamers already know? I understand the desire to change things around in the interest of surprise 
 and variety, but all that this effort achieves is needless frustration.  

 Of course, if the designers didn't rename all the technology and units, then the game would be exposed 
 for what it truly is: Civilization II with absolutely nothing new. They didn't create any new technology 
 trees and kept practically all the old units. The original Civilization II is now three years old. 
 We waited three years for this?  

 Call to Power at least tried to create brand-new units and new wonders and even made new movies 
 for the wonders. Here, the designers didn't even do that. Worse yet, when you meet with rival rulers 
 in the fantasy or sci-fi games, there is no picture or herald. You just stare at a blank wall. 
 The designers couldn't even draw simple 2D pictures for the new rulers of the fantasy and alien 
 races.  

 There are many other little things that make this game seem hastily thrown together. Yet it's apparently 
 been in development for two years. What took so long? Not the multiplayer game, since that was 
 already done. And the new fantasy- and science fiction-themed games couldn't have taken that long 
 to make, either; the designers just had to edit a text file in Civilization II. Besides, there 
 have already been numerous expansions since the original game's release, including fantasy and 
 sci-fi scenario packs. And speaking of which, excluding Midgard, there aren't even any new scenarios 
 in Test of Time. So what did we wait for? New graphics and new names. That's just not worth $40 
 and two years' time.    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (3 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: trusteft
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 6, 2007 9:03 am PT
Review:  I bought the game approximately at the time of release in 1999. First the bad things. If you liked 
 the videos from Civilization 2, forget them, they are not here.
  Also the game, if you play the standard game, is almost exactly the same as Civilization 2. It 
 is easy to see it as a rip off, but ToT has some very nice bonuses.
  A few extra normal units.
  Mods or scenarios that change the game a lot. The game mechanics remain, 
 but everything else changes.
  
  The best part of this game, and the reason why I keep playing it has to do with an option that 
 no other Civilization game has, though it IMO should.
  The extended game settings.
  
  In previous and later Civilization games, as long as one civ managed to reach Alpha Centauri, it 
 was game over. Of course you could continue playing or just disable that victory condition.
  In ToT you can of course play with the exact same rules, and play more or less the exact same game 
 as the other Civs.
  BUT, if you decided to play the extended game you are in for a treat.
  When the civs or one civ manage to reach Alpha Centauri the game turns into a sci fi game of sorts. 
 You see, Alpha Centauri is not without Alpha Centaurians. There is a single Civilization there 
 that had all this time to expand and (depending on the difficulty setting of course) colonize the 
 whole planet, un opposed... All this time that you were fighting other Earth based civs, the Centaurians 
 were arming and getting ready.
  When you first reach their planet it will be possible to build special portals (and later spaceports 
 ) that allow instant travel between the planets, Earth and Alpha Centauri. The chances that the 
 aliens will have more advanced technology is there... After a while you have aliens invading Earth 
 and humans fighting for survival. Of course not all humans will see this as a problem. So be prepared 
 to continue fighting some of them at the same time. If you manage to defend the planet, perhaps 
 you will consider invading the aliens' planet too. Imagine having your MBTs and infantry attacking 
 cities on the alien planet... super cool.
  
  The technology tree doesn't stop to the one of Civilization 2. There are many more technologies, 
 including some futuristic units. Some of which are very very very powerful and huge.
  
  The game is not perfect and if you have no interest in also fighting aliens or the other mods, 
 you might not be so crazy about paying to get this game.
  But, IMO is totally worth it.
  I just wish the next Civilization game, whenever that is, it will have a similar option. I doubt 
 it since most people didn't like it for one reason or the other, but I can hope! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hootie017
Rating: 7.8
Date: Dec 11, 2006 1:21 am PT
Review:  i understand why they gave this a bad review, if you were to review this in the time it was released, 
 it is very understandable why they would be so mad, because according to the review, the improvements 
 were negligible in comparison to how long it took to come out and the price tag.
  
  But here it is from my current point of view,
  the game is so nice i bought it twice, seriously, 
 i bought it once many years ago in box for about $12 i think, sold it back to the store after about 
 6 months of playing basically 12 hours a day. Fast forward to my college years, i bought the game 
 on ebay again for 99 cents and it has not left my CD drive since.
  
  the gameplay is extremely immersing and requires you to think the entire time about what to do 
 next and, like all other civilization games, requires you to stay on your toes. Considering it 
 is very very easy to blink and realize you have been playing the game for 6 hours or more in one 
 sitting gives the game a great overall value considering that if you go looking, the most your 
 probably going to pay for this is most likely $5.
  
  and as for my sound score, the reason it even gets a 1 is b/c it won't let me give it a zero, but 
 on second thought it deserves the 1 simply because the game has sound, considering how long you 
 end up playing it, the games 13 tracks that get recycled that last about 3mins each, along with 
 the cheap sound effects, get old REALLY fast.
  
  the only redeeming value to the soundtrack is that its kind of funny that if you turn on iTunes 
 while its in the tray, the program reads the game as George Strait: 50 Number Ones 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CivroN
Rating: 6
Date: Oct 27, 2005 5:49 am PT
Review:  I was shocked with the review that it only got a 4.2 but this game really is fun to play. Yes they 
 have just played around with the civilization game and it just looks like a MOD but it is a magnificently 
 created MOD for civilization where you have different gameplays and different eras to choose from 
 like you can choose to play in a Lord of the rings type of setting or the futuristic type of world 
 but it kinda sucks though where the units are poorly designed. They should have beautified the 
 game more and from what i think, Sid meier has just nothing to do with his god given talent but 
 to fool around with civilization and pop came out this game. : ) 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
