-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Civilization III
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/strategy/civilization3/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Oct 30, 2001
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 9.2
Critic Score: 8.9, 36 Review (s)
User Score: 8.9, 4,715 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Atari
Developer: Firaxis Games
Genre: Historic Turn-Based...
Date:     Oct 30, 2001 &raquo;  
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Civilization III is a triumphant proclamation that strategy gaming is alive and well and still able 
 to keep you rooted in front of your computer for hours at a time. 

 With Firaxis' superlative Civilization III, that old-school, up-till-5am-addictive, and one-more-turn-based 
 grand-strategy gaming that was introduced 10 years ago in the original Civilization is back. And 
 it's back with a vengeance. This sequel to one of the greatest games ever, which was itself the 
 sequel to one of the greatest games ever, lives up to its lineage. It is a paean to the principles 
 of solid design, sleek interface, sharp artwork, unlimited replayability, open architecture, and 
 epic storytelling. It is yet another example of Sid Meier and company's cunning insight into what 
 makes games good. Civilization III is, in short, a triumphant proclamation that strategy gaming 
 is alive and well and still able to keep you rooted in front of your computer for hours at a time. 
           Civ is back -- and better than ever.    

  There are two ways to look at Civilization III: either as it stands on its own, or as the most 
 recent version in the evolution of a line of games stretching back to Sid Meier's original Civilization. 
 As the latter, it's immediately clear that Civilization III's apple hasn't fallen far from the 
 tree. In fact, you might even be disappointed when you start your first game of what feels like 
 a warmed-over version of Civ II. But this feeling fades with time. The more you play, the more 
 you'll realize that the new game's seemingly subtle changes have a significant impact.   

  Many of these changes are carried over from Firaxis' Alpha Centauri, which introduced concepts 
 such as unique factions, national borders, and a living map. All of these are present in Civilization 
 III, but it isn't just Alpha Centauri with a historical setting. Although the game's various civilizations 
 aren't as distinct as Alpha Centauri's factions, they each have a unique unit and two "strengths" 
 that give them special advantages. The unique units, which are really just souped-up versions of 
 common units, are useful for only a limited time. For instance, everyone eventually gets jet fighters, 
 but the Americans can build F-15s that hit a little harder. However, this doesn't come into play 
 until late in the game, during the modern age. Similarly, the Romans' legionaries are slightly 
 better than the commonly available swordsmen, but this isn't much help once history progresses 
 into the middle ages. Unique units have their brief moments in the sun of time, providing their 
 civilizations with a temporary military ace up the sleeve.   

  The civilization strengths, on the other hand, tweak the basic rules and have long-term implications 
 for how you play the game. For instance, when you play as the Babylonians, who enjoy their strengths 
 of being "scientific" and "religious," you pay half price for scientific and religious structures, 
 you get a free technology every time you enter a new age, and you can instantly change governments 
 without a period of anarchy. You might not appreciate the impact of these bonuses until you're 
 playing a civilization that doesn't get them. Suddenly, important structures cost more, technology 
 doesn't come as easily, and you're not as flexible when it comes to changing governments. With 
 your choice of civilization, the dynamics of the game vary just enough to make you sit up and take 
 notice.   

  The concepts of national borders and a living map have advanced significantly since Alpha Centauri. 
 Each city accumulates culture depending on what you've built. A 3,000-year-old city with an ancient 
 coliseum, cathedral, library, and university will have a whole heap of culture, whereas a new backwater 
 village with a small temple will barely register. This is important because borders extend from 
 cities based on how much culture they have. With enough culture pushing them out, your borders 
 can swallow neighboring cities and bring them into your empire. Civilization III models the seductive 
 power of entertainment, art, and religion. It's a form of conquest with sitcoms, music, and priests 
 rather than soldiers, and it adds an important new dimension to the game.           The technology 
 tree is more streamlined but still complex.    

  Another powerful and subtle difference is the role that the map plays in Civilization III. Terrain 
 is no longer just a source of food, shields, and trade arrows. Rivers are a significant factor 
 in combat and the development of cities, even well into the later game. Roads, railways, harbors, 
 and airports connect your cities to each other and let you import goods from other civilizations. 
 Cutting a certain stretch of road or blockading a particular harbor can plunge an entire civilization 
 into panic or shut down the production of tanks, airplanes, and railroads. Because it's important 
 to link to a certain resource, remote patches of land might take on new significance as the game 
 progresses. The geopolitical shape of the world will shift as technology comes to rely on iron, 
 then coal, then oil, then uranium. In Civ III, the map lives and breathes and drives the game. 
 It's much more than simply a place to put your cities.   

  The computer's artificial intelligence is formidable, but it's not clear how much of this is due 
 to "cheats," which are bonuses commonly given to make up for the fact that a computer AI can't 
 see the big picture as well as a human can. Some suspicious things go on during the computer's 
 turns. Units shuffle back and forth pointlessly as if they were patrolling. Twenty workers will 
 march all at once to irrigate a single square. There'll be an awful lot of outdated troops loitering 
 around the AI's empires as the 20th century rolls around. But on the whole, the computer is surprisingly 
 capable of providing a smart and competent challenge. It seems to recognize the importance of strategic 
 resources on the map. It will pillage important terrain improvements and attack in numbers, making 
 good use of combined arms. In terms of diplomacy, the AI civilizations don't react as abruptly 
 or unpredictably as they have in the earlier games. In fact, diplomacy in Civilization III is a 
 slow, ponderous, and frail process. Two sides starting a war can drag their allies with them, and 
 world peace can collapse like a house of cards. Civilization III features overnight cataclysms 
 of World War I proportions.    

 In the evolution of strategy game design, Civilization III is clearly the best thing since Civilization 
 II. If you've been playing these sorts of games all along, you're going to love it. And since it 
 includes a comprehensive scenario editor, serious players are going to be cranking out mods and 
 scenarios that give Civ III almost impossibly long legs. You'd be hard pressed to imagine a game 
 with more replay value than this. There's no question that this a perfect holiday treat for longtime 
 strategy gamers. But how will it play for the casual gamers who spell the difference between critical 
 and commercial success?           Features like culture add significantly to the series' core gameplay. 
    

  On one hand, Civilization III is more streamlined than its predecessors. It still ramps up slowly, 
 gradually introducing new game mechanics as you advance through time and technology. In fact, the 
 technology tree has been pruned considerably. Research doesn't meander anymore. Instead, it passes 
 through a series of choke points that determine which of the four ages your civilization is in. 
 As time goes on, there's less disparity, and diversity, among each civilization's technology. The 
 dilemma of science isn't so much which path to take -- since there aren't many -- but whether to linger 
 in one age to explore all the optional dead ends or whether to make a beeline for the next age. 
 Do you stick around the industrial age to discover amphibious assaults, paratroopers, helicopters, 
 espionage, and communism? Or do you rush into modern times to get started on nuclear subs, space 
 flight, and stealth bombers? The new pruned tech tree keeps science focused for new players while 
 giving experienced strategy gamers enough choice to keep it interesting.   

  Things such as aircraft, trade, and espionage are also streamlined -- unfortunately, espionage is 
 so streamlined that it seems tacked on as a poorly documented afterthought. There's a new emphasis 
 on gold, which has many more uses than it did in the previous games. The combat system is flexible 
 and intuitive, presenting numerous options for combined arms without throwing a bunch of stats 
 at the player. There are simple rules for complex ideas, such as defensive artillery fire, zones 
 of control, retreats, air superiority, and unit experience. The interface keeps the map under your 
 nose whenever possible. Overall, the game is easy to manage and full of Sid Meier's trademark cross-linked 
 screens and clearly demonstrated relationships. There are very few "soft factors" running invisibly 
 under the hood. This is a confident, competent, accessible design that presents almost no obstacles 
 to new players. It's built to suck you in and teach you to play. In this regard, Civ III is perfect 
 for casual and new players. It won't scare off people who might just be considering their first 
 epic strategy game.   

  At least that's the way the first five or so hours are. Civilization III has done almost nothing 
 to solve the problem of increasing complexity as the game goes on. The endgame bogs down in as 
 deep a morass of micromanagement as ever. Civilizations sprawl and brim over with units. Managing 
 your workers and terrain improvements can get complicated and tedious. Pollution is still an exercise 
 in workers scuttling to and fro. City management and terrain improvement can be turned over to 
 the computer, but you'll get weird situations like archers being built in A. D. 1600 and cityscapes 
 speckled with too many mines. This is a problem with most games that model the epic sweep of history, 
 so it's not unique to Civilization III. What is unique to Civilization III is the inordinate time 
 between turns in the later game. On a midrange system, it's not unusual for the computer to take 
 well more than a minute between turns. This will tax the patience of even serious gamers, so it's 
 hard to imagine casual gamers putting up with it. To its credit, however, the new victory conditions 
 in Civilization III mean you won't necessarily be shuffling units until the bitter end.   

  The graphics and artwork, which are charming and varied, should do a good job of hooking you in. 
 The map looks great, striking the perfect balance between being zoomed in close enough to look 
 attractive and being zoomed far out enough to be useful. Animated units fight battles and cheer 
 when they win. Cities, citizens, and advisors are updated as a game progresses through the different 
 ages. It's amusing to see an industrial age Cleopatra in a prairie bonnet or Shaka Zulu wearing 
 a contemporary business suit. It's also gratifying to see your city grow into brick buildings and 
 then skyscrapers.           Civilization III will appeal to fans and new players alike.    

  The manual is generally decent, but it leaves a lot of information to the online Civilopedia, 
 which isn't consistently available. On the city list, the option to sort cities doesn't work. Also, 
 Civ III doesn't offer any decent way to find specific resources, cities, or units. Looking for 
 oil? Wondering where your elite riflemen went? Can't remember where the closest barracks is? Have 
 fun hunting around. Also, as the game neared completion, Firaxis decided not to ship with multiplayer 
 support. It has suggested that multiplayer features might be added later, but if you're looking 
 for a multiplayer grand-strategy game, then Civilization III isn't the place to look for the time 
 being.   

  It speaks volumes that the most significant complaints specific to Civilization III are minor interface 
 issues. Civ III represents solid design coupled with careful execution at its level best. Between 
 its streamlined gameplay and unparalleled pedigree, Civilization III can open strategy gaming to 
 a wider audience and kick off the sort of renaissance that role-playing games enjoyed after the 
 release of Baldur's Gate. We can only hope. And even if it doesn't, well... we'll always have Civilization 
 III.    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (92 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Gamer_Above
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 11, 2008 3:07 am PT
Review:  Civilization 3 takes place in the ancient times. Civilization 3 is created by Sid Meier. On to the 
 point, this game has it all for a low graphic computer. It has a wonderful gameplay (to me one of 
 the best) It is also very addictive. It has a few strenghts and weaknesses. On to the strenghts. It 
 has good graphics. It is also a good history teller (more like creating your own history) . Well this 
 game is certainly fun to me. But i think some people might get bored by it because of it's slow 
 game play. So overall this game perfect for historian and non-serious gamers. But it also is kinda 
 hard to play if you are a slow learner. The tutorial is quite usefull. This game is unique because 
 of it's game play. Finally, it rocks, it just rocks. It rocks because it's addictive to the average 
 human brain. If smart people play it would be a bore. Civilization 3 could have been the best since 
 the arrival of Civ 4.
  
  Review by-Josh. A 
::::::

::::::
UserName: -Dark_Palladin-
Rating: 3.5
Date: Aug 20, 2008 10:44 am PT
Review:  Where do I even begin with this game? Playing Civilization Call to Power was more fun than this 
 peice of crap.
  
  
  
  
  GAMEPLAY: Well, this "game" is yet another stragey game, propelled by its amazing seqaul, these 
 people decided "Hey, lets kill this entire seqaul and make the worst Stragey game ever."
  
  
  After choosing from 12 sucky races (Whom English and American, are really both the same) , the 
 game starts you out with a settler in the the middle of nowhere. As you click the End turn button 
 millions of time, you build a city, build some structures inside it, build a settler, move the 
 settler to a place to build a city, and repeat til you run out of room. And in that proccess, you 
 may come across some of the ugliest character models in history, those who represent leaders. And 
 these people constantly ask you to sell them your cities, so they can build an army and kick your 
 rear end. And if you decline, they declare war on you, amd magically appear with 600 army units. 
 Honestly, either way, they still come and kill you, weither you accept or decline. And sometimes 
 they randomly just attack you, such as when you make a trade, speak to them, or even not bother 
 them at all.
  
  
  
  Perhaps you can see where this is all going? Ok maybe you can't really, but who wants to waste 
 their time building an empire, just to have some indians threaten you to give them your cities, 
 or they'll tear them apart?
  
  
  
  Well, this is a technolegy-based game, not based on war too much, and your probably complaining 
 why I've gotten to the war and building, and not the other stuff. Well, ok then, Mr. Critic. If 
 you manage to survive the restless tribes that attempt to rip you apart, you mainly focus on building 
 cities, and researching like crazy til you get freaking spaceships flying in the air. That may 
 seem cool and all, but its worse for the fact that your cities are always in civil disorder.
  
  
  
  I think they just don't like the buildings, but for whatever reason, your cities will 
 constently go berserk, and won't get anything done or nothing, and if the situation doesn't get 
 solved, they actually start tearing the whole damn city apart. You waste your little gold on a 
 single entertainer to stop the ranting, and hope that they shut up and get back to working. And 
 the only way to get that money back is to hire a tax collecter, or use a thing called Weath to 
 convert happiness into gold.
  
  
  
  And what about combat? The combat is competely broken like shattered glass. Now only in a pikeman's 
 dream will he be able to take down 6 musketmen without losing a single block of health. If you 
 think that's crap, 1 clubman can walk right on top of a city, manage to kill every single citizen, 
 bypass my worthless security system, and claim it for his own. If you do manage to have a unit 
 kill enough people, he gets promoted, til he's an army leader, who is worthless, and dies in 1 
 hit. That's all I really can say.
  
  
  
  GRAPHICS: Well, not much here. The people look like crap, as your advisors smirk at you with evil 
 smiles. The battles aren't instense, its like a teenage actor, just boringly stand and lightly 
 poking the target.
  
  
  
  
  SOUND: A few grunts from combat, nothing much. The music is drums being beaten for LITTERLY AGES, 
 and the future music is some retarded grandpa shouting something as he plays a banjoo.
  
  
  
  
  
  WHAT'S NEW: Everything you've liked about past CIVLs have died. And if that weren't 
 enough, the game stops at 2050. Why? Just why? Other games would let you go, even to the 3000s! 
 But no, everything has to be crap. This game is crap. Its a fine way to lose 15 bucks. If you see 
 it at the store, hopefully less. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Guitar-Dunnie
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 6, 2008 8:30 pm PT
Review:  Civilization III is the third installment of the highly popular game series, Civilization by Sid 
 Meier. To new comers and to fans, this game can be a very fun experience. However, if strategy 
 games aren't your thing, this may annoy you to death.
  
  Although Civilization III offers a fun experience by allowing players to create cities, create 
 ranks of people (whether fighting or helping build the city) , build monuments, and wage war against 
 rival countries, the game can cause some problems that will ruin the player who plays the game. 
 For one, even on the easiest difficulty, keeping up with other countries as far as technology and 
 advances in cities can be difficult. At some times, it even feels like the other countries are 
 cheating, especially when fighting. 
  
  This game is one of those games that you have to really get into to know how to succeed and triumph 
 over the other countries. Either that, or it may take a couple of practice "files" (or games) to 
 figure out. 
  
  Overall, if you are the type of person who loves a good strategy game, or a new game experience, 
 this game is highly recommended. But, if you think you'll do bad since strategy games confuse you, 
 I would waste time or money. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: iceking003
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 12, 2008 8:42 am PT
Review:  Civ 3 is a classic masterpiece, even though its the 3rd in the set of games. It is truely one of 
 the best if not the best strategy games ever, in my opinon, it is the best. There are so many game 
 modes, and different Civs and enemy civs to conquer. Or, if you want, you could have a one-on-one, 
 or just your own people, fighting against barbarians. Or you could turn off barbarians and just 
 race for technolgy. It is all up to you. Also, you can head over to the custom settings and change 
 the entire game. If you have the play the world pack for the game, you also get 5 or 6 extra nations 
 to play around with, like the mongals or the spanish. Also, if anyone noticed, i said this games 
 difficulty was just right, this is because of the multiple settings to change your oppontents crafty 
 and aggressive behavior.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: jason1995
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 10, 2008 1:49 am PT
Review:  I thought this game was boring until i started to play it more and it became more and more fun 
 as i got better. Personally i thought Purging Europe off other civilizations as the Germans was 
 great fun. There is nothing more fun that showing the other leaders they suck im playing regicide. 
 Some people think it takes to long to finish a game i think the game should be much longer. Then 
 go into space and conquer alien planets and show some aliens who's boss. Take over whole solar 
 systems in a 3D universe. Witch could bring a new meaning to the name Space Nazi's or Cosmonauts. 
 Another thing i thought having the Holy Roman Empire rise to power and never come back down thus 
 making Romannauts when going into space. Stain should have been the Russian leader not some old 
 Russian Lady pissed me off. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hkauzi
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 14, 2008 6:50 pm PT
Review:  This game just doesn't seem to finish!
  There is always a race that you haven't tried, a map you haven't built on, a scenario condition 
 you haven't challenged and a warrior you haven't created before. The game just goes on...
  
  
  Some fabulous ideas of border expansion and a great portray of Politics involvement in 
 it. Say for example, that another nations sub has been detected within your Sea border or another 
 nations plane is suddenly flying within your airspace, heading for your capitol...
  
  
  What do you do? Open up the political bar were you can Negotiate with the other Nations leader, 
 you can bribe, insult, pleas, trade, negotiate, warn, declare war or make treaties/ allies with 
 nations. It just keeps on going...
  
  
  Probably the most rewarding part of the game is Nations coming to you in scars offering you money 
 or land/ cities after you started to raid their borders and capture city after city...
  Its one of those games were you really have to plan for the future and ill give you a tip, read 
 the Civilization encyclopedia and see stats and technology that can lead to such and such.
  
  
  Preparing a fleet to lead your armies across the vast array of seas and planning were and 
 when your going to land is just a massive choice that can impact the whole world in the game, literally. 
 Just because you capture one border city doesn't that they are okay, they could have stored many 
 things in that city and might have been their only harbor city, or have many monuments in it...
 
  
  
  Future planning in the game is vital and overall is a game that is quite hard for youngsters and 
 yet is also for adults, but that is what makes it fun.
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: thegaminggamer1
Rating: 1.5
Date: May 12, 2008 12:57 pm PT
Review:  I bought this game hearing the buzz of great reviews, and ended up bored and let down. Very letdown. 
 The game is overly complicated, the handbook is long and useless, the other leaders, no matter 
 what, will attack you eventually unless you force yourself through the mind bending diplomacy feature 
 and manage (through a miracle) to get an alliance going. The obnoxious AI will settle your lands, 
 but if you do the same, they get really ticked off, almost to the point of declaring war. You have 
 to go through every single existing unit to end a turn, making large armies painful. It took me 
 5000 years to train a force of bow men. The cluttered Word Document style interface is one of the 
 greatest let downs of all. Its A GAME, so make it look like that Sid! Overall, this game was a 
 huge let down. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nintendoboy16
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 30, 2008 9:08 pm PT
Review:  Civilization III is a turned based strategy game that is made by one of the huge gaming legends 
 named Sid Meier. There is no story to talk about in this game, but you can pick any real world 
 race you want and either have a peaceful planet, or deliberately destroy all the other cultures. 
 (I prefer peace) You can play as the U. S., the UK, Persia, Egypt, Rome, and some other ones as 
 well. What I liked about this game is that the Turn based strategy game play is pretty tight. Great 
 graphics. Units get better as you progress through the game. Each race has their own ability.
 
  
  What I didn't like about this game is that the game can be offensive to some other people. Barbarians 
 in this game are so annoying, they can't hit the side of a barn.
  
  Overall, Civ III is a great Civ installment, however it can be offensive depending on the person. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: medwayman
Rating: 3
Date: Feb 5, 2008 3:39 pm PT
Review:  The game positively smacks of zero playtesting. If anyone had taken one play through before release 
 they would have realized.
  - Interceptors just plain old don't work. Ever.
  - Older weaker units lose to modern units with rage inducing frequency. This is especially apparent 
 when in the modern age the computer spams older cheaper wooden frigates to sink your beautifull 
 modern (EXPENSIVE!) battleships.
  - You can bombard units for 1000 years and never reduce them to zero hitpoints. Retarded.
  
 
  But by far the highest crime of this release is that the new game concepts (strategic resources 
 and borders) simply weren't fun. The fact that strategic resources are generated based of a land 
 control algorithm defies logic. The bigger you get the more likely one of your strategic resources 
 will disappear and re-appear in an opponents back yard. Its a cheap and wholly unsatisfying way 
 to force a player to diplomacy.
  
  And speaking of diplomacy, nothing sucks worse than borders that don't work. Watch in frustration 
 as the AI drives settlers across your land to inhabit that one tile you don't have covered and 
 steal a strategic resource away. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rockman_12
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 17, 2008 4:59 pm PT
Review:  This game is very good. There is a bunch of people you can be, and it is an easy game to play. 
 I am not going to name everyone, but here are a few.
  
  Gandhi
  Queen Elizabeth
  Ceasar
  Joan of Ark
  Some japanese guy
  and much, much more
  
  The game is easy depending 
 on what level you put it on. The easyest is easy, the hardest is hard. Pretty simple. The detail 
 is pretty good, but not perfect. If you love strategy games, this game is perfect. I love this 
 game and you will love it too. If you play it for a while, you may get bored, but it passes in 
 a little time. If you havn't played it before, you may want to borrow it, But I promise. It won't 
 let you down.
  
  Just to let you know, this game is amazing and inexpensive. It is the perfect pair. 
  
  Personally, 
 be Gandi. He is probebly the one there. His culture is always high, so you score points like crazy. 
 To end this review, I say this... GO CIV!!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Azu32
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 2, 2007 6:10 pm PT
Review:  First of lets look at the gameplay, Civ 3 featured classic civ style gameplay you have a settler 
 and build a city , build workers , buildings, wonders and units. Most noticeable difference was 
 that settlers required one unit of population from a city to found a new city - reasoning was that 
 a group of people have to emigrate from the current population right? also it had another effect 
 this being that it took longer for a player to build up their empires and so helped slow the pace 
 of the initial 'colony rush' which so badly effects alot of strategy games (even today with games 
 such as Galactic Civilizations II) . Also building workers to construct tile improvements such as 
 roads, irrigation and mines etc would also pause the population growth of a city again effecting 
 how quickly one could build up a viable country.
  Also concerning gameplay a civilization has a few characteristics which can effect gameplay, for 
 example a city might be classed as scientific and get a free technology at the start of a new era 
 or maybe sea faring and has bonus commerce at sea , this is a good implementation and was used 
 to better degree in Alpha Centauri (yes Alpha Centauri had this first) the various factions had 
 bonuses to law order , population growth research and so on, so I give a thumbs up to Civ 3 for 
 having this feature. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: master_blue
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 1, 2007 12:50 pm PT
Review:  Civ III was released in 2001 by Firaxis games and was the long awaited sequel to the excellent 
 Civilization 2 , however before Civ III was released Firaxis had released the absolutely brilliant 
 game, Alpha Centauri in 1999, the differences between the two were mainly concerning the setting, 
 Civ 3 was set on earth allowing the player to take a civilization and evolve it over the course 
 of our known history, Alpha Centauri on the otherhand was set in the relatively near future were 
 humans have had to band together to set off to our nearest star to colonise the planet Chiron in 
 an attempt to save mankind from the looming apocalypse (over population , resource crisis political 
 instability global warming etc etc) .
  
  Thats the main difference but I shall explain the others while I am discussing Civilization III's 
 gameplay, sounds , longevity and graphics.
  
  First of lets look at the gameplay, Civ 3 featured classic civ style gameplay you have a settler 
 and build a city , build workers , buildings, wonders and units. Most noticeable difference was 
 that settlers required one unit of population from a city to found a new city - reasoning was that 
 a group of people have to emigrate from the current population right? also it had another effect 
 this being that it took longer for a player to build up their empires and so helped slow the pace 
 of the initial 'colony rush' which so badly effects alot of strategy games (even today with games 
 such as Galactic Civilizations II) . Also building workers to construct tile improvements such as 
 roads, irrigation and mines etc would also pause the population growth of a city again effecting 
 how quickly one could build up a viable country.
  
  Anyway moving on, next up on Civ is that when you build a base there is some maintenance costs 
 as expected but this time theres also a horrible 'corruption' value , the more cities the player 
 built the more 'corruption' there would be, furthermore if the city is far away from the capital 
 city this corruption value gets even greater and the city can become a drain on resources, penalty 
 to tax income and generally worthless, it was implemented in an attempt to stop 'infinite city 
 sprawling' where players would pump out settler after settler, good idea perhaps? 
  
  BADLY implemented, it means you have a focus on building fewer cities (and this is made even worse 
 so in its sequel civ 4!) , I guess huge countries like India, China, Russia and America have this 
 massive problem with corruption which means their cities are unproductive and dont contribute to 
 the tax coffers eh? needless to say I think its ok to try prevent infinite city sprawling but there 
 should be a better way than this piss poor idea, luckily this isnt included in Alpha Centauri - 
 I guess afterall since its the future logistics and communication not to mention telepathy have 
 eliminated large scale corruption to effect how productive a city is overall.
  
  Also concerning gameplay a civilization has a few characteristics which can effect gameplay, for 
 example a city might be classed as scientific and get a free technology at the start of a new era 
 or maybe sea faring and has bonus commerce at sea , this is a good implementation and was used 
 to better degree in Alpha Centauri (yes Alpha Centauri had this first) the various factions had 
 bonuses to law order , population growth research and so on, so I give a thumbs up to Civ 3 for 
 having this feature. 
  However each faction is also made a little more unique not just by their poorly animated leaders 
 faces but by a ONE WHOLE UNIQUE UNIT!!!111 it makes each faction *really* feel different from one 
 another... o wait it doesnt, in Alpha Centauri I can hear people crying it doesnt have unique units, 
 well no instead it goes a step further and allows the player to fully customise their units - want 
 a colony pod with the ability for orbital insertion? you got it! 
  
  Following on from units, in Alpha Centauri there was a host of alternate abilities not just artillery 
 fire/bombs as it seems to be in Civ 3, instead you could unleash chemical/biological weapons, subvert 
 control of units , could give units Anti Air abilities and so on a huge deal of customisation leads 
 to more interesting units and thus wars, but one does have nukes in CIV 3 right! well as we all 
 know from Civ 3 onwards in the civ series nukes have become a joke with little reason to actually 
 build because they dont destroy units fully, they merely injure them and they only damage a city 
 not destroy, well thank the Lord this silly thinking of a super weapon didn't effect Alpha Centauries 
 'Planetbuster' missiles which destroy entire islands, they are truly super weapons.
  
  Civ 3 also includes government types as seen in previous civ games, with vanilla civ 3 these were 
 quite balanced, there was despotism which conferred no bonus or penalties,  
 and communism, but then with the expansion pack Fascism was added and it was and still is the most 
 insanely overpowered government type Ive seen in a Civ style game, it pretty much doubles the number 
 of units a given nation can maintain with no cost so theyre military goes from balanced to insanely 
 powerful with a pitiful 'penalty' to the player that chooses fascism... a few population decrease 
 in each city wowowow they'll make that up in a couple of turns once they blitzkreig everyone - 
 hey maybe thats justified then, afterall the fascist germans had a huge military right? well did 
 fascist italy, finalnd, bulgaria and romania? no not particulary and hey wasnt the british empire, 
 USSR and USA militaries huge aswell? this is a bad case of historical element added into Civ 3 
 and I was dam thankful it didnt make it into the sequel Civ 4, the reason Germany had a huge military 
 was because it had a huge industrial capacity and was actually preparing for war.
  
  Now then the government types in Alpha Centauri on the otherhand were very very well balanced, 
 in fact it went even deeper than just government type as seen in Civ 3, oh no you see in Civ 4 
 with the civics system, well that actually existed way back in 1999 with Alpha Centuari , you could 
 choose government type, economic policiy (green, planned, fat cat mode etc) social values (wealth 
 , knowledge etc) and then plan for a future society (mind control, utopia, cybernetic ) each had 
 its own bonuses and penalties and dependant on faction some on the basis of ideological differences 
 would not choose a specific policy outright (which further helped to make factions seem unique 
 not a wow 1 unit!) .
  
  Civ 3 also featured a few great leaders but these really seemed like an afterthought , winning 
 a stunning victory had a small chance to grant an 'army leader' which could combine several units 
 into one super stack to provide a really overpowered element to the game , and there were also 
 great scientists which could boost scientific progress or rush cities, this really seemed underdeveloped 
 in Civ 3 but showed some promise in that it was an ok idea and was used to much better effect in 
 Civ 4, im kinda glad though it was tacked on in Alpha Centauri.
  
  And also concerning civ 3 gameplay theres now specific resources, these can be luxury resources 
 such as ivory , spices etc which grant extra commerce and something to trade to rivals with, and 
 theres the much more important strategic resources like iron and aluminium. Now this was a good 
 idea but unfortunately was implemented pretty awfully , this resources were spread wayyyy too thin, 
 iron and aluminium are not exactly rare resources - the quality of the metal certainly differs 
 but again not rare so why would one huge empire only have say 1 horse resource and 1 iron is this 
 just an encouragement to wage war on a rival who does? im glad this wasnt included in Alpha Centauri 
 I feel it is another case of good idea badly executed.
  
  Another radical change to gameplay was the implementation of cultural flips, now a city in civ 
 3 would produce a culture value representing its borders this time based on specific buildings 
 - as various ones produced culture, now when a city was close by and its culture was very poor 
 but a rivals city was great that city had a chance to flip ownership - a good idea? well its certainyl 
 *interesting* but bad, so very bad in history a city just doesnt flip, the only way to make this 
 realistic would be for a city with strong culture to pinch a population from a rival city - in 
 the form of emigration for a better life - THATS realistic not a whole city changing ownership 
 . again im so very, very glad this wasnt implemented into Alpha Centauri and I hope it never is 
 added into a potential sequel - afterall the differences in Alpha Centauri are political and ideological 
 not cultural, also im glad it was refined somewhat in the sequel Civ 4.
  
  Next up theres diplomacy, its a big improvement over civ 2 which is what one would hope to expect 
 given that this is a sequel, you can check to see what it costs to make deals, theres a few more 
 diplomatic options available, non aggression , mutual protection ,alliance , free passage etc its 
 functional and I like, but in Alpha Centauri it had much more personality and was even better - 
 some factions would hate each other but would beg for peace, others could be bribed to give votes 
 for UN proposals and would sometimes contact you to try and bribe you the player!
  
  Which leads me onto the U. N, oh how I loathe the U. N in civilization series, its done so very badly, 
 a player/AI builds the small wonder the U. N and a vote goes up for representative to make proposals, 
 except the proposals are not chosen by the player theyre randomly generated and whats voted in 
 stays you cant even choose to leave the U. N, its just as piss poor in Civ 4 but dont fret, its 
 actually be made correctly in one game, Alpha Centauri, you can choose what proposal goes up for 
 a vote and if a proposal wins which you dont like, to hell with itjust do you're own thing everyone 
 will hate you but so what. Choice and consequence thats what helps make a game fun.
  
  And finally concerning civ 3's gameplay is war weariness, oh my what a diabolical addition to the 
 gameplay , its taken way to far aswell, you can wage war effectively as a non communist , non feudal 
 , non monarchy non fascist nation for maybe at most a dozen turns before theres mass riots in all 
 your cities - even less for democracy EVEN IF YOU ARE NOT THE AGRESSOR, even if, you are just defending 
 yourself if theres a war the population doesnt seem to care if its defending itself, i mean hey 
 Britain in WW2 and the more recent falklands war had to use riot police to keep everyone in line 
 right? I could understand if it was unpopularity due to being the aggressor state but then again 
 why is it only the republic and democratic governments which seem to have these problems?
  A BAD idea and one that seriously hampers the gameplay value of the game , I hope it was a rookies 
 suggestion and not the man Sid' or Mr. Reynolds themselves!
  
  Ok so after the lengthy analysis and comparisons on the nature of Civ 3's gameplay I shall now 
 briefly look at the music , longevity and graphics, first up lets take the latter graphics.
  
  Theyre pretty bad, I recall coming from Alpha Centauri with modelled mountains and hills to 
 seeing Civ 3's "2.5D" with a flat dull coloured plain with bright blue seas and mountains and hills 
 which took up one tile, there wasnt even an attempt to model mountains hills or heights in general, 
 needless to say I was a little taken aback but its just graphics, except I knew from Alpha Centauri 
 it also could potentially benefit a games lifespan - height dictates weather patterns which dictates 
 what a terrains type would be which in turn effects city placement!
  
  Ok so the terrain look pretty atrocious, the units themselves look pretty decent, cant really fault 
 them and they had some nice animations too so thumbs up on the sprites themselves, two thumbs down 
 on the terrain!
  
  But more importantly, the whole art direction I felt was a little amateurish in Civ 3, in Alpha 
 Centauri it was like a work of art, it really gave the impression that Chiron was an alien planet 
 and however much like Earth it was, it was still alien, strange and deadly , each wonder had its 
 own movie to accompany it and it felt much more engrossing and intellectual deeper than Civ 3 (and 
 Civ 4 combined) .
  
  Next up theres the music, I kinda liked it, it had various ambient tracks to fit each era during 
 gameplay, shame you couldnt customise the soundtrack like you could in Civ 4 admittedly you also 
 could not customise it in Alpha Centauri, so the music is good overall , and there was a few more 
 tracks added in for the addon packs which again was up to par and felt it belonged in the game.
 
  
  And finally theres the longevity of the game, well the expansion packs added multiplayer which 
 was pretty badly implemented and buggy, better though was the conquest scenarios but even then 
 they could get boring due to the almost obsession on it being about, well conquests, overall the 
 game had a nice random map generator but because there were these rather irritating to almost game 
 breaking balances it damaged the longevity of the game, especially for me and really gave me pause 
 as to the supposed greatness of the civilization series, and these concerns were not proven false 
 with the sequel Civilization 4, instead my concerns were upheld and even a couple of new ones added.
 
  
  I can only hope that Alpha Centauri does not include the elements which make up Civ 3 and Civ 4 
 and as you can see, Civ 3 really was a step backwards from Alpha Centauri when firaxis should have 
 built upon the strengths of Alpha Centauries unique take on the core civilization gameplay and 
 made Civ 3 even better!
  
  Pros:
  .Alot of strategy involved
  .Some expansion packs created alot of civilizations to choose from (although i wouldnt agree with 
 all their civ characteristics)
  .Music is pleasant and fitting
  .Can at times be quite addicting
  .Civilization characteristics
  .Civ conquests adds a few 
 good scenarios such as rise of Rome.
  .Hotseat multiplayer mode (can get boring but is a good addition)
  
  
  Cons:
  .Some gameplay 
 additions are downright awful such as war weariness and corruption
  .Buggy multiplayer
  .Strategic resources are badly spread out.
  .Overpowered government type : Fascism - nearly game 
 breaking
  ."Unique Units" do not make a unique faction/civilization as in they all feel samey.
  .Underdeveloped 
 gameplay ideas i. e Great Persons
  .Bad art direction in general
  .Terrible terrain graphics "2.5D"
  .U. N is broken
  .All these faults damage the games longevity
 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: hardheartman
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 9, 2008 12:00 am PT
Review:  This is just one of those games that you can spend hours playing without realizing that football 
 season has come and gone. It does absolutely nothing poorly. It's a very well put together game 
 with a charming visual style and nice sound to boot. It has a great variety, of game types, and 
 for a very long time you keep running in to new things. Civilization brings the perfect mix of turn-based-strategy 
 and free-roaming gameplay. It really is an amazing experience.
  in this game, you start you civilization at the stone with your first city and then you can do 
 wathever you want depending the technologies you have. You can decide to build a settler wich can 
 make another city, you can make a worker wich can make tile improvement or you can make a scout, 
 a warrior, an archer etc... And then you developp technologies to get to medieval age, then industrial 
 and finaly modern time.
  One of the most unique things about this game is the fighting system. Which will amuse others while 
 make others wonder why they ever bought this game. The game uses a system where you control every 
 player, and machine worker ships.
  This game has a very high replay value if you were very into the first time around. Civilization 
 has a random map genarator, so its like you never play the same game twice.
  In the end it is a very fun and addicting game that will keep you playing for hours! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mootmash
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 6, 2007 5:27 am PT
Review:  I have heard many dissenting hoots when it comes to turn-based strategy (TBS) . Not fast-paced , 
 the RTS fans cry. Boring! agree others.
  
  Civ III is neither of the above, having just the right amount of pace for players - and in fact, 
 there are many paces. With around seven levels of difficulty, from the easiest Chieftain, to the 
 hardest level (cheekily named Sid , after the chief designer of the game Sid Meier) , there is always 
 a level just right for any aptitude of player.
  
  Civ III is not an easy game. Being a middlingly lousy player at games, I found myself in a rut 
 in the third easiest difficulty level after having played a few games. It being turn-based, every 
 turn counts. If you waste a turn at the start, you may regret it going into the end of the game 
 as other civs improve and progress more than you.
  
  What impressed me about the game was the sheer variety of everything, including the ways of winning. 
 In Civ III, you could win by a number of ways: technology (sending a spaceship to the moon) , conquest 
 (the original way of winning) , culture (being so rich in culture that other civs simply pale beside 
 you) , and many more - just like in real life. Also, there is a large number of civs for you to 
 choose from, each with their own beneficial characteristics. Therefore, you may want to choose 
 a civ that aids in your gameplan. Personally, I like to be ahead in technology, and thus pick a 
 Scientific civ, like Germany.
  
  There are many technical aspects of the game which I can't even start to name (I am not a very 
 good game player and computer user) . Civ III may not appeal to many people, like those who abhor 
 the very idea of turns, or ancient civilizations. However, for other game players, you cannot miss 
 out on Civ III.
  
  (I advise that you get Civ III: Complete, which comes with Civ III's two expansions: Play the World 
 [multiplayer mode] and Conquests [a handful of preset scenarios that you can play, including Mesopotamia 
 and World War II - they even come with tech trees different from the standard game, thus making 
 it more fun!) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: goduffgo
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 5, 2007 11:34 am PT
Review:  When i first brought Civ III i remember this classic boxes that games used to be in, and the box 
 was really heavy!! The reason for that is the massive game manual inside, really is was full of 
 every single thing to do with the game and i loved it!
  
  game play was also great to play, the layout was well put out, you could easily play around without 
 reading the manual. but i would suggest you do because the game relys on tactical play and little 
 things but thats why this game works so well!
  
  this game is truley worth buying is has everything you would want to play a historic turn-based 
 strategy! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: snakegirl1995
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 22, 2007 6:31 pm PT
Review:  pretty good game. I like the fact that u can basicly rule the world :-) starts out easy, but then 
 u get 2 many units to control, then ur cities all get run-down and broken up. But its the best 
 strategy game ive ever played. Many playable world leaders, each very unique. great graphics too. 
 fun once u really know how to play. great for studying those dumb history exams. its kinda weird 
 how barbarians will pop up in a zone u cleared of them before though. itll keep u goin for a few 
 hours straight sometimes though. and its not just for nerds either, not to mean that in a bad way. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Llarrev
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 29, 2007 3:30 pm PT
Review:  Civilization III is the long awaited sequel to the highly acclaimed Civilization II. It had a lot 
 to be compared to as both of its predecessors were truly excellent-Civ III does not disappoint. 
 It manages to be both original and yet similar to Civ II, making it an amazing stand alone title. 
 There are a few subtle changes to the gameplay of Civ II. The concept of unique factions is used 
 for the first time on Civilization III, i. e each civilization has its own unique units and two 
 bonuses which characterize the tribes somewhat. This change seems larger than it actually is, and 
 is in fact somewhat superficial, the unique units only provide brief advantages and throughout 
 the whole of the game they aren't very useful, a nice new feature all the same. Another, far better, 
 new feature is the civilization strengths, my personal favourite tribes are the Babylonians and 
 the Persians. When playing as the Babylonians, described as scientific and religious, you pay half 
 price for scientific and religious structures, can change your governing style without causing 
 anarchy, and receive a free technology upon entering a new age. Changing civilization actually 
 does affect game dynamics, and finding which faction suits you best is actually important. National, 
 or cultural borders, are yet another new tweak to the Civilization experience. Each city accumulates 
 a culture score, by the building of such buildings as wonders, cathedrals, etc. Your cultural borders 
 can suffocate those of neighbouring rival cities and the population of those cities are drawn to 
 your superior influence and become a part of your empire. This provides a little more realism to 
 the game as in truth people remaining loyal to an empire that does not support them is a little 
 unrealistic. A further development in gameplay lies in the fact that now terrain provides defensive 
 bonuses, as well as just food. Also, resources have to be colonized by a worker and linked to your 
 cities by road or rail, if this is not done the fact the resource or luxury is within your cultural 
 borders is irrelevant. Once again this adds realism as good must be imported and exported to travel 
 round your empire and gives the map more depth other than just an expanse of land. The diplomacy 
 in Civ III is also better, and far easier as you have to placate your allies and enemies a little 
 less. In Civ II a war could break out at the drop of a hat and be over by the time the hat hits 
 the ground, in Civilization III the wars are fewer and further between but at a much larger scale. 
 The computer AI, even at higher difficulties is a little easier than the first two games but that 
 is not a big problem, as it is still competent enough to provide a challenge. Civilization III 
 also has a tremendous amount of replay value, the scenarios are a great new addition to the series 
 as they can keep a player busy for hours, and though some of them are quite similar, many of them 
 are unique. This combined with the lower difficulty level of the game, makes it accessible both 
 to avid strategy gamers, and to the more casual gamer who is looking for a bit of fun and exploration. 
 On the other hand, the game suufers from being best at the beginning and middl e and a little more 
 tedious toward the end. As your empire becomes vast and the number of units both the player and 
 the AI opposition manipulate the tuns become longer, as does the time between them. Giving all 
 your units commands, managing your cities and the tedium of having to command your workers can 
 be a taxing endeavor.
  The game map certainly isn't an eyesore, with a perfect balance in scope between the aesthetic 
 and the practical being reached. The units battling it out with one another and their rapturous 
 cheering at their victory is rather quaint. The look of buildings, rulers and advisors progress 
 to mirror the age and seeing Shaka of the Zulu in a business suit is light comic relief. All of 
 these features make it great graphically. The soundtrack is also a little less tiring over time 
 than its predecessor, and no complaints can truly be made about the sound of the game.
  All in all, another excellent game in what appears to be a long running series. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kaaskwast
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jun 22, 2007 4:44 am PT
Review:  The first simple missions of conquering and trading where great fun and not too hard to finish. 
 However when i wanted to explore the game be-ond the simple missions, and started playing the more 
 complicated 'skirmish'' missions, it was when I came across many hordes which I found more then 
 just difficult to pass. For example every time i came further in a game my treasury would decreased 
 massively and raising taxes didnt make it any better. I'm sure there's a simple solution to it 
 but it's explained nowhere.
  There are more irritating flaws like this in the game, but they are never big enough to ruin the 
 fun. Because that is still what this game is. It has a great variety, of game types, and for a 
 very long time you keep running in to new things. It is certainly a game which requires a little 
 patience, but once you accept that you have a greatly entertaining game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: slimchance33
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 30, 2007 2:24 pm PT
Review:  This game stays true to the Civilization series, by Fir-axis! Highly addictive, one more turn please!, 
 kind of game. You can spend hours and hours playing all different play styles, nations, and trying 
 to beat the game all different ways, culturally, space race, or my favorite world domination, and 
 several other challenging ways on many different skill levels. This game is highly recommended 
 for any strategist or fan of the Civ. series! I believe the graphics could have been a little better, 
 but the overall gameplay is great. It is farely easy to learn what to do and how to do it. If your 
 a Civ fan and you don't have it, get it.... or if you are just a fan of strategy games, definitely 
 give Civilization III a shot!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: marktg
Rating: 9.6
Date: May 1, 2007 10:31 am PT
Review:  When I frist played this game I thought that it was great because it was updated with new graphics 
 and music but it still stuck to what this series is all about and is just right. The gameplay can 
 start to get a bit more harsh in latter time periods and pollution becames a problem but other 
 then that the gameplay is good. There is only one real problem with this game and that is that 
 it can get pretty boring fast if your not carefully and If you want to get use to it I reccomd 
 playing by yourself at frist. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xxscammersxx
Rating: 4.3
Date: Mar 4, 2007 11:49 am PT
Review:  I bought this game with fairly high expectations. Everyone said it was a great game and Gamespot 
 gave it a 9.2. Things get bad from the start. Gameplay is tedious and all too often your cities 
 fall in anarchy, making them uncontrolled and they will not produce units. The only way to avoid 
 this is to put more money toward entertainment, wasting what little gold you already have. The 
 absence of any story mode leaves only skirmishes, which get boring fast. Sound couldn't possibly 
 be any worse, with the same music all the time. It is an ok value, I bought it for 10 bucks on 
 amazon, but i was expecting much more for the money. Overall, i would recommend it to people who 
 enjoy turn-based games, but otherwise, skip it 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ACESandElGHTS
Rating: 9.2
Date: Feb 27, 2007 3:42 pm PT
Review:  I love this game. If you measured my favorite games by sheer playing time, this would measure up 
 as one of my most loved, if not my all-time favorite. Sometimes you don't want action, you want 
 to think a little more. Maybe you like the idea of building an empire and then pitting against 
 your neighbor. That's a huge part of the appeal here. There's glory in fighting to destroy or absorb 
 your fellow nations. There's glory in watching your cities sacked or your armies defeated or watching 
 nuclear retaliation for your quick conquering of a rival's island province. Other games have a 
 limited lifespan because... just how many tanks can you produce to battle the other guy's tanks 
 before it just gets old. Well, this game starts with poorly equipped cavemen battling each other 
 and progresses on to medieval warfare, gunpowder, mechanized armies, flight, rocketry, computers, 
 and everything in between. That's just the military side, though. Other fun stuff includes diplomacy, 
 scientific advancement, city building, politics. It's like combining The Sims, Risk, and Axis &amp; 
 Allies and stretching it out over several days. A must-have for anyone with a lot of time on their 
 hands. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SonicShadowBat
Rating: 9.6
Date: Feb 10, 2007 5:41 am PT
Review:  The Civilization series is back again with another excellent game that just improves the turn-based 
 RPG type of game. In Civilization III like previous Civilization games you pick a major civilization 
 such as the USA, France, or any other major or powerful countries from the modern world and you 
 start the game with the nation you choose. Your people are wandering nomads and the first major 
 thing you do is set up your capital. Then after this you can do anything you want. You can be a 
 expanding nation where you just want to increase the size of your civilization. You can be a nation 
 that wants to improve its skills and gain new skills. You can even be a waring nation that is all 
 about war and taking over rival coutries. This is the start of a massive and excellent game. The 
 gameplay Civ III is just amazing. It is easy to moves units and create units from your cities. 
 Their is a civ guide in the game that is a good reference if you need to know about something. 
 The screens that pop up in the game are easy to understand and are never confusing. The A. I in 
 the game is really good to. When you decalare war on a country the AI doesn't let you just run 
 in and take over the country. It forms stratages from what it know about your playing style in 
 the game and it builds of that to make it's stratage. The AI is really challenging to beat in war 
 at latter diffuculty settings and the more difficult settings also jack up the whole diffuculty 
 fo the game. The gameplay in this game is just fenomenal and is nothing less then perfect. The 
 graphics and sound in this game are just awsome. Each unit has their own look and they all look 
 good. Another really cool thing the developers did was give each nations units a different color 
 so that makes it easy to tell which units are yours. The sound in the game is awsome. The in game 
 music in the game is well composed and never gets old. Each unit in the game has their own distinct 
 movement sound which is amazing. The sound when you attack enemys is really cool also. The graphics 
 and sound in this game is just phenominal. Over all Civilization III is just a amazing game that 
 you would be hardpressed not to enjoy. If you don't enjoy this game you are wacko. You really owe 
 your self to play this awsome game. If you don't play this game your are missing out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Phantomstrider
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jan 26, 2007 8:01 pm PT
Review:  Every now and then, I'll replay this game, and every time I end up getting sucked into the game 
 for hours. I'm terrible at the game and always end up losing, but I still think its a great game.
 
  
  Graphics: 7/10
  For its time, this had excellent graphics. The civ leader character models are a prime example 
 of this. Unless you look extra close at units, they look good too. When looking through something 
 like aerial view, the graphics are also excellent. If I could sum up the graphics in this game 
 in one word, it would be detail. 
  
  Sound: 8/10
  I found the sound in this game to be great. I never had any real complaints with it at all. Its 
 certainly not tinny, its abundant enough and its not overwhelming enough to get repetitive or distract 
 you. No quarrels with the sound.
  
  Gameplay: 7/10
  Well this is what always pulls me back to games. Good gameplay. The gameplay in Civ 3 is original, 
 enjoyable, replayable and fairly easy to adapt to with plenty of possibilities and detail. The 
 only thing that I despise about the Civilisation series is the battle system. It runs on a chance 
 system which will vary in higher or lower chance based on units, ground, etc. Unfortunately, I've 
 always found that the computer greatly favours the AI. For an example, a fortified gunman may be 
 taken down by an attacking warrior. Often this leads me to extreme frusteration since I will have 
 a highly superior force in both unit power, type and quantity, however the computer will size your 
 forces down none the less.
  But besides from the battle system, the gameplay is excellent.
  
  Overall: 7/10
  An immersvive, replayable, enjoyable game that holds its own extremely well. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: XxR0gu3Go0sexX
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 13, 2007 9:51 am PT
Review:  I'm not a big fan of RTS's, but this game is still fun. Not much has changed from past Civilization's, 
 but it got a graphics up grade along with a few other to make this game different.
  
  The Game play is nothing new from past RTS's and to be truthful its getting really old to play 
 that way.
  
  The best thing about the game would be the graphics. They are way better then other RTS's that 
 I have played, but there still not enough to save this game in my opinion.
  
  Another flaw with this game is that it does not keep you playing for that long... the gameplay 
 gets old really fast and it does not do much to keep gamers into it.
  
  If your a big fan of RTS's and love how they play then this game is going to be great for you, 
 but it you prefer games with good stories or good gameplay then this should not be on the top of 
 your list.
  
  Everyone will have some fun with this game, but its not enough to keep you playing for hours on 
 end. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Spaceoffz
Rating: 9.3
Date: Dec 28, 2006 1:34 pm PT
Review:  This is a game, that brings unlimited addiction to some, beside confusion and bore to others, although 
 IV has improved graphics and maths, it can't really seem to get a player addicted as much.
  I have spent over 200 hours with sleepless nights being controlled by its mystical addiction powers. 
 
  Recommended highly for old-style strategy lovers everywhere!
  
  You a newbie to this kind of strategy?
  Take a view through 8 (i think) difficulties to master, 
 and go up the chain of technology until you're the greatest civilization of all time!
  
  There's four Eras; Ancient, Medieval, Industrial and Modern, each providing a long leap of gameplay, 
 and planning ahead is just about crucial.
  A quick decision is a bad decision. 
  
  Don't like strategy? This game is not for you then! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nmelms
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 25, 2006 5:02 am PT
Review:  If you've never played this type of game, I advice you not to because it will literally suck the 
 time out of your life. I picked this game up and I have been addicted to it ever since. It is such 
 a challenging game but once you get the flow of the game, it is really hard to put it away. Because 
 their are so many different ways to play this game whether you want to be a warmonger, a peaceful 
 diplomat, or your one of those people seeking to launch a space ship to Alpha Centauri, this game 
 will offer all kinds of challenges for any level. One of the best things about this game is the 
 re playability. You're gonna find yourself playing the game over and over trying to see what fits 
 your type of gameplay. I highly recommend this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wildnine00
Rating: 9.3
Date: Nov 27, 2006 3:12 am PT
Review:  Civ III will eat weeks or possibly months of your life, weeks or months that you cant get back, 
 so proceed with caution. This is just one of those games that you can spend hours playing without 
 realizing that football season has come and gone. It does absolutely nothing poorly. Its a very 
 well put together game with a charming visual style and nice sound to boot. This game proves that 
 turn-based strategy games are still relevant. One of the best things about it is that you can win 
 by using any number of strategies. You can overwhelm your opponents with your military, or impress 
 their citizens with your culture enough to make them join your civilization. This game is a classic, 
 and will be talked about for many years to come. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zealaez
Rating: 9.4
Date: Nov 25, 2006 12:32 am PT
Review:  When I play this game first, I feel very blurred and confused. I spent the time for orientation this 
 game about 3-4 hrs . This game was so complicated that I ever seen. There were much detail but they 
 were so near to real life and this game was full of life. This game was turn-based strategy; the 
 good idea of new game. You must used the brain heavily for thinking in every click in every turn 
 for making your civilization to be the most powerful kingdom of the world. I feel worth for buying 
 this game, I feel very happy when I play this game but this game had the bad point, too. The bad 
 thing of this game is it made me addict to it over so far ,it made me lack of time for doing other 
 things!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dunnie91
Rating: 8.4
Date: Nov 9, 2006 12:14 pm PT
Review:  This is one of those games that you are either good at or plainly outloud suck at. When you start 
 to play it, you will become absolutly addicted. And it is not a bad thing if you are, because this 
 game is really, really fun. I loved it as soon as I played it. I even bought it, but it wouldnt 
 work on my old computer. So when my aunt's boyfriend came over with his laptop, I literally played 
 for about 3 hours. This game is amazing! But there's a catch, this game can be very frustrating. 
 If you make one false move, your game can be in the hole. It is very easy to be technologically 
 backwards in the game also, making you very vulnerable to other countries. And at times, it feels 
 as if the other countries are able or in others words allowed to cheat and speed up their development 
 process, making them be able to complete cities quicker than you. And the most frustrating this 
 is that when you fight your enemies in war, your character shows that he is about to kill you opponent. 
 Then at the last moment, your enemy kills you. Again... the cheat. So you can love this game alot, 
 but it will come back to haunt you. Buy this game and any other Civilization with caution. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fiveball
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 14, 2006 12:57 am PT
Review:  This is a much better game than Civiliation two. Although that was a very good game in its time 
 as well. The biggest advance I believe over its predecessor is the diplomacy features, not to mention 
 borders. Was anyone else as frustrated as i was in civilization 2 when you have your little nation 
 and ooops here comes china, building a city half a screen from your capitol? Graphics are a huge 
 inprovement and the way the game calculates combat. Sound and music are again very good, ive sunk 
 alot of time into this game and i dont remember the music as being a huge annoyance. As a side 
 not you may want to check out civanon. com if you have addiction problems. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: curtizio
Rating: 9.3
Date: Sep 2, 2006 9:03 pm PT
Review:  Despite some flaws, Civilization 3 continues to be the king of the "just one more turn" syndrome 
 and is a must buy for grand strategy fans.
  
  Takes Civilization 2 and adds a couple of interesting new features and minor tweaks that produce 
 a fresh gaming experience.
  
  There have been few games that can match that scope and epic feel of the Civilization series. From 
 the first settlements of prehistoric man all the way up to the eventual colonization of a distant 
 planet, history is yours to shape and mold to your every whim. And it is that freedom, that ability 
 to steer your civilization in so many directions that both defines what is so compelling and, at 
 times, frustrating, about Sid Meier's latest opus, Civilization 3.
  
  If you havent played past Civilization releases, the story is simple. Start your civilization 
 with a few people and build it into a powerful empire that will beat the time. But the path to 
 that empire isnt simple. You will found cities, invest in new technologies, culture and in military, 
 only to get that one more resource that will give you world trading hegemony and pave the way for 
 building more lethal units. Beware however, because your rivals are always watching you and if, 
 or should I say when, you make a wrong move you and your people will pay the consequences. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CajunExplosion316
Rating: 9.2
Date: Aug 19, 2006 9:51 am PT
Review:  Gameplay - The Gameplay leaves nothing more to be desired. A vast majority of empires to pick from, 
 and the ability to change history. Also the game allows for a majority of upgrades in technology, 
 buildings, and units that can be built based on how advance your Civilization is and the time period. 
 Only thing I don't get is how a guy with a spear can bring down a tank. (9)
  
  Graphics - The terrain is pretty static. but the units are animated perfectly and so are the CGI 
 faces of the leaders (9)
  
  Sound - All the units have different sounds that really make you feel like it's real, also some 
 of the music isn't that bad either (8)
  
  Value - You'll spend hours, weeks, months, years, lifetimes playing this game (9)
  
  Tilt- 
 Best historical turn-based game ever!!!! (10) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: monster2k
Rating: 9.8
Date: Aug 14, 2006 1:09 pm PT
Review:  ore there is to the game than just doing what's seen when you play and read the manual or other 
 people's reviews. At first I was thinking "Ok I played the demo so it'll be easy" Well I was wrong, 
 the game was set to chieftan so I can get familiar to it, but it was playing like it was on the 
 highest difficulty it has. I thought i was doing well by focusing on my economy and then bit by 
 bit on my military but instead i just got crushed by the competition. I recommend this to anyone 
 who loves a good challenge, but dont just take my word for it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mavediss
Rating: 9.3
Date: Aug 7, 2006 8:15 am PT
Review:  Here we have the sequel of one of already best strategy games ever made, Civilization III. Every 
 time that a new version is released by Firaxis we start thinking of what could be better since 
 most of players get so satisfied with current version. So here we go. More than any time before 
 you have to think like a chess game a make a good planning of you next move and global strategy. 
 You can play as 16 different civs and of course each one has its own start technologies and diplomacy. 
 The classic way of playing is still there, so you start building cities, workers, and combat units. 
 Its also important to plan which way you want to go through the tech tree and the resources you 
 are exploiting in order to achieve knowledge to build new units, city improvements and also wonders. 
 Here comes the magic of Civ because the way you put efforts to science and culture the faster you 
 get more new techs. It also depends on the government system you have chosen and the way you interact 
 with other civilizations. In fact, the diplomacy is one of the better improvements of this version 
 so you have ways to end the game that include cultural and diplomatic victories. Although there 
 is not the expected multi-player mode for this original release it is guaranteed that you will 
 spend lots of ours playing it. It is recommended to update with Civilization III v1.129f Official 
 Patch. Good gaming! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: megafeck
Rating: 9.1
Date: Aug 6, 2006 8:11 pm PT
Review:  I have been a fan of the Civilization series from the beginning, and I was excited to pick up this 
 game. I had been playing Civ: Call to Power II just days before, and was hoping it would stand 
 up to it. I found that some of the elements of the game were drastically improved, but there were 
 also several shortcomings. 
  
  Being a fan of the Call to Power games, I was disappointed to see that they went back to the original 
 Civilization time system, with the game ending in 2050, instead of continuing into the future and 
 building underwater cities and studying futuristic technologies. I know this game was trying to 
 get back to the classic Civ system, but overall I was disappointed with this happening. 
  
  Strategy-wise this game is a whole lot more realistic, and somewhat more challenging. It really 
 forces you to be careful about what order you study your technologies, to expand quickly, and to 
 wage war with neighbors. Also, theyve added in a system where some units require resources to 
 build. So if you want to build a mounted unit, you have to have access to horses. Generally these 
 resources are easy to find, so this isnt much of a problem. 
  
  Another major set of things that were added were the special unit and civilization traits. 
 These make each civilization have certain advantages and disadvantages by giving each civilization 
 one unit that only they can build, and two special traits, such as Militaristic, Religious, Expansionist, 
 Scientific, or Commercial. So, the Germans, who are Scientific and Militaristic are able to build 
 Barracks and Libraries/Universities for cheaper, along with having several smaller advantages. 
 
  
  Another large addition was culture. Basically every city has culture points that are generated 
 from buildings such as temples, libraries, and universities, and also from most wonders. As the 
 cultures for your cities grow, your area of control grows. Other civilizations cannot build inside 
 your culture area, so this system allows you to prevent other civilizations from putting their 
 cities in annoying places on your island. However, when a city is captured by an enemy, all of 
 the culture resets, and starts over from 0. Also, if there are two cities, each from different 
 civilizations, side by side, and one has much more culture, the one with lower culture has a chance 
 of defecting and joining the other civilizations side, in awe of their culture. The chances 
 of this are affected by the difficultly level. If it is Chieftain, you shouldnt have any problem 
 taking other cities this way, and enemies can rarely pull it on you. On the other hand, if you 
 are deity, it is nearly impossible for you to do this to you enemies, but they can do it to you 
 quite well. The final part of the culture system, is the fact that you can win the game by amassing 
 huge amounts of culture in one city, or having several times more culture than any other civilization. 
 
  
  The graphics are a definite improvement. Civ: Call to Power II had excellent graphics, but this 
 time the graphics have an unparalleled amount of realism, in both the unit graphics and the terrain 
 detail. This is also coupled with realistic sound effects and a beautiful soundtrack to create 
 a very pleasant gaming experience. And of course, if you dont like the music, its not to hard 
 to turn it off in the sound menu. 
  
  Overall, Im happy to say, that even with a few shortcomings, Civilization is quite an enjoyable 
 sequel to this amazing series. Definitely a game for Civ fans to buy, or even people interested 
 in getting into the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Turisman4
Rating: 9.4
Date: Aug 3, 2006 8:45 pm PT
Review:  Sid Meier's Civilization has been around since the days of the Amiga. 13 years after the original 
 strategy game came out, Civilization III has been created, to positive reviews and praise. The 
 first 3D entry in the series, Civilization (or Civ) III throws in a slew of new countries, units, 
 improvements, and more. New players may take a while to get a hang of the new systems in Civ III, 
 while older players jump in and get familiar. One striking thing about it is that you can get on 
 and unwittingly spend 4 hours of your time in a blink. The turns in the later stages of the game 
 can be exceptionally long, especially in times of war. However, at no time will you feel like you've 
 been ripped off of your time. The gameplay is very immersive, but also great fun. The soundtrack 
 changes as time passes in the game, and only adds to the excitement of playing the game. The graphic 
 quality and stability of the game are also great, but not as mindblowing as the soundtrack. Still, 
 Civilization III is an awesome Turn-Based Strategy game for players old and new, and is a must 
 have for anyone with a PC and a passive interest in strategy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Saw100
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jul 26, 2006 2:20 am PT
Review:  Civilization-games are much more developed than Age of Empires-games. In Civ III you have to feed 
 your own people, collect taxes, etc. It increases the level of realistic, which is great thing! 
 Even with the easiest difficulty game is not that easy, so there's plenty of challenge for masters. 
 Graphics are bit boring, but they're not that important. There are so many ages in the game, there 
 are Ancient Times, Stone Age, Iron Age, Modern Times, etc. So if you like strategy-games and you 
 are master in them, you can't "complete" Civ III in one night. 
  
  Civilization is perfect purchase for anyone who likes strategy-games. If you want some good and 
 realistic strategy-game, Civilization III is perfect choice. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: justiceDAK
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jul 3, 2006 7:48 am PT
Review:  Civilization III is an awesome game and (in my humble opinion) is somewhat more fun than Civ IV. 
 Civilization IV is slow and more thought out rather than Civ II's innovative formula that revolves 
 around leading a nation to domination.
  
  If you are new to the Civilization series, go ahead and start with Civ III, it is very easy to 
 learn compared to the others and grows a lot on the player. The game never gets old as you start 
 and plan new Civs, making them better than the last. There are numerous different nations that 
 you can play as in this classic including Rome, Greece, Egypt, Germany, America, England, and France, 
 just to name a few.
  
  You may not even want to buy Civ IV after playing this masterpiece, which is perfectly alright, 
 because the game will cover you with plans for your nation's success. No one will ever forget their 
 first time playing Civ III, it is an awesome experience.
  
  This game will entrap you with its beautiful design, awesome gameplay, and innovative style. Be 
 prepared to lose some sleep! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DLB2
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jun 10, 2006 8:16 am PT
Review:  Sid Meier's Civilization, in any of its incarnations, is an amazing accomplishment. Like Doom, 
 Wizardry, or King's Quest, the original game rests in the small pantheon of titles that revolutionized 
 the medium and devoured millions of hours of gamers' lives. Among the elite of PC game history, 
 though, Civilization stands alone. With it, Sid Meier managed to create a game so versatile, so 
 subtle, and so much fun that even the original is a blast to play today, despite dated graphics 
 and a clunky interface. 
  Why bother to write a sequel then? Chess, after all, has managed to endure for centuries without 
 anyone feeling the need to come up with "Chess III." With Civilization II still selling copies, 
 what could Civilization III offer the gaming community (and in particular the vast sea of rabid 
 fans) ? 
  
  After an embarrassing number of hours playing Civ III, the answer is, "quite a lot." While keeping 
 the core gameplay essentially intact, the Firaxis team has produced a genuinely new game that adds 
 even more depth and flexibility to an already deep and flexible game. Veteran players will also 
 be pleased to see the completely revamped interface. Depending on their strategies from previous 
 versions, they will likewise be either happy or frustrated with the additional tweaks made to units, 
 improvements, and wonders. 
  
  So much has changed, in fact, that players with thousands of hours of Civ I or II under their belts 
 would be well advised to read the entire manual and the Readme file before playing. Feel free to 
 dive right in (as a certain overeager, unnamed gaming journalist did right until he got his derriere 
 handed to him by the Germans) , but little clues like 'settlers' and 'workers' being different units, 
 cities having to be connected to certain resources by roads to build the best units, and the inability 
 to irrigate off ocean squares will very quickly remind most players that this is a new game. 
 
  
  The heart of the game is still building a mere village into a globe-spanning empire that will endure 
 for all time. As in previous games, this is done through building new cities, researching new technologies, 
 building improvements in your cities, defending against and attacking your neighbors, and establishing 
 diplomatic relationships where beneficial. Keeping your people happy while keeping up with the 
 competing civilizations remains the key challenge of the game. 
  
  Unlike in the first two incarnations, however, players will have a very hard time using the same 
 cookie-cutter strategy every time they play. Dozens of innovations make this possible, but the 
 most significant is that the maximum size of a player's civilization is limited to 30-35 cities. 
 Beyond that number, corruption becomes ridiculous. The resulting smaller empires mean trade and 
 diplomacy are almost essential to survival, much less victory. 
  
  In addition, each civilization plays differently. Some civilizations are more inclined to war, 
 others to research, and still others to trade. Although these characteristics can be turned off, 
 civilization-specific units cannot, and the early-game impact of the Persian Immortals or the late-game 
 devastation of the German Panzers cannot be overstated. The uniqueness of the different civilizations 
 virtually guarantees that, even on the same map, each game plays differently. 
  
  They've also made alternative victories much more viable. Although the first two games claimed 
 to offer alternative paths to victory, the reality was that almost every game amounted to keeping 
 the population happy enough to allow the player's huge armies to conquer the world. That is certainly 
 not the case in Civ III. It is actually possible for a relatively small civilization to take over 
 rival cities (and win the entire game) by building a civilization that is far more culturally advanced 
 than their neighbors. 
  
  Just as culture has become more important, conquest is somewhat more difficult. Units face a movement 
 penalty in enemy territory and city populations retain their nationality for centuries after they 
 are captured (making them much more likely to overthrow your benevolent rule) . These limitations, 
 combined with the importance of culture and the robust diplomacy model, mean that even the most 
 bloodthirsty Civ players will at least consider nonviolent strategies in certain situations. 
 
  
  Nevertheless, those who insist on swords over plowshares will not be disappointed by their options 
 in Civilization III. Although the game is clearly about much more than combat, armchair generals 
 will still have a wide variety of combined arms units available to send out to make the world safe 
 for their despotic rule. Although veteran units are handled somewhat differently than in past games 
 and barracks never (!) expire, combat will feel familiar to experienced players. Strong defensive 
 units in all cities are essential, and mobility and attack strength will carry the day in offense. 
 
  
  Your ability to keep up with all the war, peace, diplomacy, happiness, construction, finances, 
 and trade has been dramatically improved. The advisors' reports provide a huge amount of information 
 in a single place. They are also interactive, allowing you to zoom to trouble spots and make change 
 quickly. Even leaders of the most sprawling empires should have no trouble maintaining a bird's 
 eye view of the status of their realm. 
  
  Espionage is the one exception to this. For some reason, despite its key role in the game, it gets 
 neither its own advisor nor its own summary/management screen. Unlike diplomacy, espionage is managed 
 from the map screen, which is the main interface for the game. 
  
  Like everything else in Civ III, the main map has been significantly improved to allow the player 
 ready access to key information. Likewise, players can make important changes to cities and their 
 units without having to switch to the "city" screen. This is an enormous time-saver and allows 
 players to spend most of their time looking at the map. 
  
  Fortunately, the map is easy on the eyes. As mentioned in the GR preview, the overall design elements 
 are built around Pieter Bruegel's Tower of Babel. The painting's influence is particularly obvious 
 in the city view, but the buildings and colors on the map are also clearly inspired by Bruegel's 
 work. In addition to being pretty, the map screen looks more realistic than any randomly generated 
 land-masses in previous games by any publisher. The rest of the graphics in the game are also attractive, 
 consistent with the design theme, and a significant improvement over past games. 
  
  The other upgrades and improvements are too numerous to list. To name just a few: workers can now 
 be automated to specific tasks; there is no need to build freight/caravan units; military units 
 can be upgraded collectively; the "city view" screen and palace have returned, and city governors 
 actually work (if you configure them properly) . 
  
  Sadly, these changes come packaged with a few flaws. Most notable of these is the inability to 
 turn on or off the massive corruption beyond 30-35 cities. For many players, the great joy of the 
 Civ series is building a truly massive civilization and trying to keep it running. They should 
 still have the option if they want it (although it is nice to play a game with no ridiculously 
 large superpowers) . There are also significantly smaller problems like happy citizens who look 
 just like content ones, advisors who can't remember the player's name, and national boundaries 
 that take far too long to become useful. 
  
  Although the nearly transparent interface works very well with practice, it is counter-intuitive 
 at times. The inexcusable absence of a quick reference card for keyboard commands makes this particularly 
 true. Likewise, longtime fans will be disappointed to know that the days of huge posters listing 
 military units and technology advances are apparently a victim of increased production costs. The 
 outstanding Civilopedia compensates well for this, but it's still a noticeable absence. 
  
  With all that said, the minor improvements alone would still make Civilization III a must have 
 for any strategy gamer. The game is still frighteningly addictive, constantly dangling new accomplishments 
 in front of players who, at 3 am, are still planning on playing "just one more turn." Sid's huge 
 revision to the core gameplay, however, allows the game to finally reach the potential first hinted 
 at by its predecessors. Players now have the opportunity to fully explore and experiment with the 
 complex factors that make a nation great or forgettable. Civilization III offers a gameplay experience 
 that, while fun and addictive, is also profound and thought provoking. It excels as a history lesson, 
 as social commentary, an intellectual puzzle, and an infinitely replayable, highly enjoyable game.
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: alcoholhamster
Rating: 9.3
Date: May 28, 2006 3:23 am PT
Review:  well, id just like to say, this game rocks.
  it is altogether too addictive, and ive lost far too much sleep playing it than is probably good 
 for me, but hey, its really good.
  
  however, one thing i didnt like so much was the lack of a tutorial, considering id never palyed 
 any of the civilisation games before, so it was difficult at the start, and it wasnt so good how 
 there was that sort of limit thing at around the year 2000, but its very good.
  
  i havent played civ4 yet, but if you have, and you like it, you should definitely play civ3 as 
 well. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Prshad
Rating: 9.8
Date: May 18, 2006 6:35 am PT
Review:  This is by far my favorite game of all time. When this came out, I got addicted after playing for 
 about two hours. The gameplay is magnificent (never found anything better) and the graphics are 
 pretty good too. Now, you can get this game with both expansions for like $30, and believe me, 
 it's worth it. If you have a computer like mine that cannot run Civilization IV, get the Civilization 
 III complete set.
  
  I classify this game as a turn based empire builder. There are many differences between Civilization 
 and other empire builders though. For instance, Civilization is by far the most in-depth empire 
 builder that I have ever played.
  
  You start out in the stone ages with warriors and settlers and basic improvements. You have to 
 expand quickly to stake your claim on the world, because your opponents will be doing the same 
 thing. After the expansion phase is over, you can focus on isolation, or you can use your military 
 might to take over other areas of the globe by waging war on other nations. All the while, you 
 must manage your economics to have a perfect balance of luxuries and technology because your technology 
 is a major determining factor in this game. Technologies can start and end wars in this game, keep 
 up with them!
  
  You eventually work your way all the way up to the modern/informational age, where you will have 
 modern military units like marines, modern armor (tanks) , planes, ships, etc. The variety of military 
 units in this game makes it possible to fight strategically and even win a war if you are down. 
 You just have to think about what you are doing.
  
  The last subject I will touch on is your ability to build "Great Wonders". Starting out in the 
 stone ages, there will be wonders available that will provide great benefits (along with a great 
 cultural improvement) to the nation that builds them. For example, if you build the Pyramids, you 
 will get a granary in every city (I know that must mean a lot to you.) and this is very useful.
 
  
  Overall, this game is the best I have ever played. I have owned it for over a year now and I still 
 play it constantly. It's pretty safe to say I am addicted to it. Buy this game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Science2000luke
Rating: 9.8
Date: May 2, 2006 3:16 pm PT
Review:  Every since I bought Civilization 3, my computer has turned into super glue. This turn-based game 
 is the modern epitome of strategy gaming -- very simple design that makes it extremely enjoyable 
 and intellectually thought-provoking to play.
  
  But beware! This game is indeed alive, for it will suck the life out of you if you don't control 
 your urge to play. After 30 hours of straight gameplay and negligence of reality, one has an urge 
 to break the CD, but can't -- the gamewants to be saved, and played.... I am warning you, if you 
 are a student or a person with a job that requires a computer, do not bring this game with you 
 to the workplace (including college dorm) !!
  
  Moral: The best way to control addictions is to not indulge in them in the first place. Oh yes, 
 and Civilization 3 is one great game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lallu_narmad
Rating: 9.8
Date: Apr 15, 2006 10:43 am PT
Review:  Will the real strategy game please stand up? The gaming world stands divided into those who consider 
 turn based strategy (TBS) games to be the real thing and those who take the side of real time strategy 
 (RTS) games. I firmly belong to the TBS camp but if you are one of those who never care to look 
 beyond AoE, then you are not qualified enough to have an opinion. Well, its never too late to 
 start and what better a game to get initiated into the TBS genre than the third edition of the 
 classic Civilization series.
  
  First let me explain the jargon. RTS is the genre of games which includes your regular strategy 
 games like the AoE series, Warcraft, C&C etc. Here time is a crucial factor and your success in 
 these games is determined by how quickly you gather resources, erect buildings or mobilize your 
 units. A TBS game, on the other hand, takes time out of the equation and your success depends on 
 how you plan and strategize rather than how fast you move your fingers. Civ III is one of the flagships 
 of this genre along with Age of Wonders II.
  
  In Civ III, as in most turn based games, players take turns to move their units on a map which 
 is essentially a grid of a huge number of squares. It may sound like there are similarities between 
 Civ III and a primitive game called Chess. But in comparison with Civ III that is what Chess is, 
 primitive. Not convinced? Read on.
  
  You are the leader of one of the many (16 if I remember correctly) civilizations, such as Gandhi 
 for India and Lincoln for America, and your task is to lead your people to form a great civilization 
 which dominates the world (much like the U. S. today) . This is done by building and managing cities, 
 building military units, expanding your culture, capturing territories, forging diplomatic ties, 
 conducting trade and even by exploring space. Getting the picture? 
  
  Of the various aspects of the game the most important and interesting is city management. You start 
 the game with a settler and a worker. The settler is used to build a city (the cities have the 
 names of actual cities of those civilizations) and the worker is used to improve the terrain around 
 the city to increase the yield of the three main resources - food, shields and commerce. Food results 
 in the addition of new citizens to the city. Shields are used to build military units or city improvements. 
 The more the number of shields produced the less number of turns it will take to build an improvement. 
 The improvements range from temples and granaries in the starting age to SAM sites and research 
 labs in the modern age. Commerce yields gold which is spent on research, entertainment and imports 
 and is also lost through corruption. As the number of cities grows you can turn over management 
 of the less important cities to the respective governors (i. e. the computer) thus eliminating the 
 need for micromanagement.
  
  The universal parameter used to rate a strategy game is the number of military units it has and 
 Civ III has a whole cornucopia of them. In the starting age you have the standard warriors, archers 
 and the like. But the party really hots up in the modern age with fighter jets, nuclear submarines, 
 tanks, ICBMs and yes, tactical nukes. There are four main parameters of a unit  its attack strength, 
 defense strength, number of moves it can make in one turn and its experience which directly reflects 
 upon the hit points. Each civilization has its own special unit like the War Elephant for India 
 and the F-15 for America. As with everything else in this game the combat has various strategies 
 and concepts like defensive artillery fire, amphibious combat, retreats, air superiority, bombing 
 raids, cutting off transport links, espionage etc. I cant explain all of them here but I can tell 
 you that it is a lot of fun.
  
  In the game you have six advisers to help you with your domestic, trade, foreign, culture, military 
 and research work respectively. As cities grow they accumulate culture due to the presence of colosseums, 
 cathedrals etc. Culture is important because if a neighboring foreign city has much less culture 
 then its citizens may decide to oust their governor and join your civilization. Unlike most strategy 
 games the research in Civ III does not meander but has choke points which give you the option to 
 linger on in one age to explore all possible advances or to move on to the next of the four ages. 
 Other than the three basic ones, there are numerous other resources scattered on the map. These 
 include industrial resources such as iron, oil etc which can be used for military purposes and 
 luxuries like ivory, spices etc. which increase the happiness level of your citizens. These resources 
 can be traded with other countries by road, rail or sea. Trade and diplomacy are closely linked 
 in the game and you can trade maps and diplomatic treaties along with resources, technologies and 
 of course, gold.
  
  For me the highlight of the game is how it mimics the real world. As you advance through the ages 
 and newer resources like iron, coal, oil and then uranium are discovered the geopolitical shape 
 of the world changes accordingly. For example, you have researched the technology for tanks but 
 to make them you need oil which does not occur in your territory. So you either set up a trade 
 agreement with a country which has oil or you go ahead (a la Dubya) and capture a city which has 
 oil (for this, of course, you will have to declare war on that country) . The diplomacy is very 
 realistic and agreements like free passage and mutual protection have to be negotiated thoughtfully. 
 One of the modes of victory is a diplomatic victory where you are elected the president of the 
 U. N. if you have good relations with most countries. Another mode of victory is the Space Race 
 victory where you win if you manage to assemble and launch a spaceship to colonize Alpha Centauri. 
 Another concept which I discovered while playing the game was that if you start using nuclear weapons 
 the rest of the world will group up against you. So nukes are of more use as deterrents than as 
 actual weapons.
  
  I confess to being a sucker for games with complexities and if you are on the same boat then Civ 
 III is the game for you. The game is complex enough to merit an in-game help file called the Civilopaedia 
 where you can look up info. Ill put down some of my favorite ones here.
  As you advance through the ages and build more industrial improvements your cities start being 
 struck by pollution which stops all yield from the affected square and has to be cleared out by 
 workers. 
  You can research and implement various types of governments like democracy, communism etc each 
 having its own benefits and losses and each change in government being preceded by a period of 
 anarchy where all production and research stops. 
  If the number of unhappy citizens in any city is higher than happy ones then the city descends 
 into civil disorder stopping all work in the city. Citizens happiness is determined by the number 
 of entertainers in the city and the number of luxury goods available. 
  If the people are happy with your governance they will build a palace for you which you can then 
 expand using a mixture of five different architectural styles. 
  And yes, there are scores of Wonders which can be built in cities. Each Wonder has its own advantages 
 and as only one of each kind can be built there is a race between civilizations to build each one 
 first. For example building the Pyramids provides all your cities with a granary and building the 
 U. N. allows you to hold the elections. Well, I can go on and on like this but Ill let you discover 
 the other for yourself.
  
  The A. I. in the game is challenging and it takes you some time to master all the concepts and take 
 on the higher difficulty levels. The interface is simple and intuitive and the graphics are above 
 average. The view is the traditional isometric one and although a zoom to city option is provided, 
 it looses its novelty after some time. The animations of the leaders, the advisors and the troops 
 are good and occasionally funny. The only drawback of the game is the aimless patrolling and unit 
 movement done by the computer which takes up a lot of time. The multiplayer mode is good and only 
 if the game had a campaign to go along with the normal mode it would have been miles ahead of the 
 nearest competition. Nevertheless, Civ III is the best strategy game I have ever played (and I 
 have played quite a number of them) and would recommend it with the warning  highly addictive.
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sherritt
Rating: 6.5
Date: Apr 12, 2006 8:32 am PT
Review:  It is the first Civ game i have played but from the way the game works it, is very hard. I spend 
 about 3 hours a day trying to figure out the best way to conquer, but my futile attempts were wasted 
 i even resorted to looking at help guides and other things, but the game play was extremely difficult 
 to learn.
  I prefer RTS games but from the graphics of this game they come close to rts games. I have had 
 the music on full but not much sound could be heard, ( but then again there was not any music anyway) 
 which i thought was a disappointment ( the odd/occasional bird chirping) .
  The great features of this game i think would have to be in the ability to upgrade/promote you 
 troops. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cr3ati0n
Rating: 6.3
Date: Apr 9, 2006 10:06 am PT
Review:  Civilization 3 is an example of a great game with too much in it. The graphics are terrible as 
 well as the sound. This is a game you want to play but dont have the time to. There were ups to 
 the first to civs but this one is an example of riding the hype wave and putting a extremely small 
 amount of effort. It took me about 5 days of playing 2 hours to get out of the stone age! It started 
 getting a little better after that but it still drove me nuts how slow the game went i wish firaxis 
 put a little more time into this and thank god for take-two taking over firaxis. Now future civilization 
 games will have a feel of some great minds building an a series with serious potential. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: harvey19892003
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 31, 2006 2:53 pm PT
Review:  MORE INTERACTIONS, ALLIANCES AND REALISTIC ARTIFICIAL INTELLIGENCE RESPONSES PUT PLAYERS IN THE 
 MIDDLE OF NEGOTIATIONS, TRADE SYSTEMS AND DIPLOMATIC ACTIONS. ADVANCED TRADE SYSTEM TO MANAGE RESOURCES, 
 TRADE ROUTES AND SPREAD OF TECHNOLOGY. NEW ELEMENTS OF CULTURE, NATIONALITY AND THE ARTS HELP PLAYERS 
 PLAN A NEW PEACEFUL PATHWAY TO VICTORY. ACTIVE WORLD GENERATOR CREATES MORE REALISTIC MAPS AND 
 ORGANIC TERRAIN FEATURES. I LOVED THIS GAME PLAYED IT FOR HOURS AND HOURS AS YOU CAN SEE FROM THE 
 TIME SPENT PLAYING THINGY, VERY COMPETATIVE I FOUND MYSELF JUST TALKING TO MY FRIEND ABOUT IT AND 
 THEN THE NEXT THING I KNEW I WAS FIGHTING WITH HIM WE NEARLY FELL OUT BUT OVERALL IT'S A FANTASTIC 
 GAME. IF MY PC WAS GOOD ENOUGH I'D GET CIV 4. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: captaincrazydj
Rating: 6.3
Date: Mar 25, 2006 8:07 am PT
Review:  This is a very attentionable game. You need concentratation and be a stratgedic game obssesive 
 to get into it. I found it lacked the the things the other series had and in all was not entertaining. 
 I find it a pass the time game. it doesn't have that 'I've got to finish this' sense which other 
 games have and really in my opinion is a failed attempt. It is a disappointment to the Sid Meirs 
 Series and it's concept and plot are not very good. The most boring part is the civilopedia which 
 is long-winded. It doesn't add real-life concepts such as morale and energy. Any person who thinks 
 this is good must not have a stimulating mind as only a monkey's mind could find this interesting. 
 People who like this are clearly not ambitious in the excitement department. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: willdemers
Rating: 7.6
Date: Mar 15, 2006 10:32 pm PT
Review:  Civilization III is quite frankly a very fun game. In fact I found the gameplay to be a lot of 
 fun. The only thing is that this is a lot of the same except an enhanced interface.
  
  I actually preferred Civ II though for a number of reasons. I preferred the interface and all the 
 information that was provided about different wonders, historical figures, etc.. It was just a 
 lot more interesting for me. The furnishings for your palace were fun as were the talking advisors.
 
  
  Civilization III is great fun. It's a game where you build your empire by exploring the world and 
 building cities. City borders will expand based on population and culture. Other civilizations 
 may even want to join your civilization because of your cultural superiority. Not too shabby.
 
  
  My biggest complaint in all of these Civilization games is how units are created. Basically, they're 
 created too slowly. You'll create a settlement and then hundreds of years later have a unit of 
 warriors. Even later in history it can take several years just to create a basic infantry unit. 
 Come on...
  
  Decent game. Fun game. Not Civ II though. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TBird0420
Rating: 9.7
Date: Mar 12, 2006 4:35 pm PT
Review:  This game is simply AMAZING!
  
  -Gameplay (once you get used to it's unique style) is VERY addiccive
  -Low System Requirements 
 ( I played this game easily on a PC with integrated graphics and 256MB RAm on PIII 450 Mhz)
  -Realistic Sounds all the way down to the grunting of the warriors
  -About 12 Civilizations to 
 use and each has it's own advantages and disadvantages
  -I have played for 1000+ Hours and still feel like I have a lot to do
  -Lots of history and lots 
 of historical learning that you don't have to do but you can do if you want (Civilopedia)
  
  -The graphics are a little lacking in detail on models (of course this game came out 5 years 
 ago)
  -If you don't have patience for slow games that you need to get used to this is not the game for 
 you
  -Not a whole lot to say as far as Cons...
  
  Great game for patient person who likes history and even those that don't 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jgon_9
Rating: 9.2
Date: Mar 5, 2006 11:17 pm PT
Review:  Well I've had Civ 3 for more than 4 years now, and I'm finally writing a review for it. It is probably 
 one of the few games that I have played constantly over the past four years. The game play is so 
 well balanced, that hours can go by while you're playing this game. The graphics and sound are 
 also great.
  
  One thing that is a very rare is the fact that the game shipped with a full manual. A hundred page, 
 printed manual that explains everything that is in the game, including features, units, building, 
 etc. Most of the time when you get a game, you're lucky if you get a pdf file on the cd that is 
 so informative.
  
  So if you're looking for a good strategy game to kill hundreds of hours, pick up a copy of civ3. 
 It's tonnes of fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: grasu
Rating: 8.9
Date: Mar 2, 2006 7:38 am PT
Review:  Civilization 3 is one of those games that come only once in a while, theyre simple yet complex, 
 long yet short, and terribly addictive. Civ 3 fits right into that category in all of its glory 
 and its probably one of the best TBS game out there.
  
  Graphics: 9/10
  
  The graphics in this game can only upset those that play FPS games exclusively.
  
  As expected, 
 all units and combat is animated, the mug shots of the leaders have different emotional statuses, 
 such as a grin when happy or a dark stare when angry. Of course, the city view is as impressive 
 as it was in Civ 2 and then some, with houses and skyscrapers dotting the city's skyline.
  
  This gets me to another enjoyable part of the graphics: The terrain. The detail given to the 
 terrain is impressive and is, of course, dotted with forests, resources, jungles and more.
  
  Sound: 8/10
  
  Sound is a mixed bag, with mostly good components.
  
  The music is my 
 biggest issue with the sound. In the ancient ages (the music is structured by age and nationality 
 of the civilization you picked) is irritating some times, because it's not that much more then 
 just a repeated banging of drums. However, the music in the later ages of the game is AMAZING, 
 part techno and part symphonic it's a truly amazing creation.
  
  Another nice plus is that all the tracks are available in MP3 formant, so you can use them in your 
 MP3 player, for example.
  
  The sound effects are what you can expect from this type of game: sword fights, tank sounds, bombing 
 sounds, and civil unrest are some of the sounds included. Again, nothing special, but nothing bad 
 either.
  
  Gameplay: 9/10
  
  By far the most important part in any game is the actual gameplay. That being said, the gameplay 
 in Civ 3 does not fail to impress.
  
  The basic premise is to lead your nation from ancient times to one of 6 victories. Yes that's right, 
 this game has 6 ways to win, including: domination, conquest, space race, diplomatic victory, culture 
 victory and histograph victory, so there is a great deal of things to keep you playing. Before 
 choosing your path to winning however, you need to set up your world or pick a premade scenario 
 that you would like to play. Of course then you pick one of the 16 available nations, but unlike 
 in Civ 1 and 2, these nations are different as they each have their own special attributes (out 
 of the 6 available) and their own special units.
  
  After you've picked a civilization and a world for you to start playing in, you can continue towards 
 your goals of world domination or tree hugging. Most of your time in the game is spent building 
 cities, improvements, wonders of the world, armies and/or researching technology. However mundane 
 these tasks may seem theyre not. The game combines all those tasks in a likeable experience that 
 makes it a blast to play.
  
  Of course the game is chuck full of new features. There are now 2 types of wonders, Great and Small. 
 Small ones can be built by any nation, on the flip side, Great ones can only be built by one nation. 
 There are also many improvements to the units in this version. First off you now need actual supplies 
 to build units (that are connected to your cities via roads) , like iron for swordsman or horses 
 for horseman. Second some your units like catapults, cannons, planes and ships no longer attack 
 cities, they bomb them, using the new bombing ability, a nice new touch which makes the game far 
 more realistic. Of course all of the old rules still apply, units on hills get a defense bonus 
 and so on, but there are also tons more new features that I simply cannot describe without making 
 a FAQ-sized review.
  
  Units are not the only part of the game that has been improved, cities, for example, can only maintain 
 city walls up to a population of 6 (in other Civilization games they could keep city walls throughout 
 the game) . After the city reaches a population of 6, walls are destroyed and replaced by defense 
 bonuses that cities with a high population now receive.
  
  Diplomacy too has received an improvement, now allowing you to trade with your allies much more 
 efficiently than in the previous versions. Diplomacy also allows you to sign pacts and alliances 
 more efficiently than in other games. However, probably the most important improvement diplomatically 
 is the fact that you can now actually use the trade maps feature (which was all but unusable in 
 Civ 2) .
  
  Trade has also been changed, now that you don't use caravans or freights anymore. Instead you use 
 your trade networks (roads, harbors, airports) to trade with other civs. Another nice new feature 
 to trade, are luxuries, which provide happiness and can be traded with the AI for exorbitant prices.
 
  
  Combat itself has suffered both and uplift and a crushing blow. First of all now you can actually 
 observe the difference between Regular and Veteran, and the new level, Elite in combat. Furthermore, 
 the Elite units have the ability to spawn Leaders which can hurry the production of a Wonder (as 
 you can't use caravans or money to buy wonders) . Armies, which can also be created by leaders, 
 on the other hand are like a transport: They can be loaded with 3 troops (4 if you build the Pentagon 
 small wonder) and have cumulative HPs of all of the units in the army, but they sacrifice their 
 ability to move of the fastest unit, since an army can only move at the rate of it's slowest unit.
 
  
  However there is a big problem with combat in Civ 3. Actually I'd say 2 big problems. A problem 
 is the fact that combat is WAY too random. In one of my games I attacked a regular spearman (3 
 HP) with an army of mounted warriors (14 HP) and lost all but 1 HP form my whole army. How very 
 annoying!
  
  The second big combat mistake Firaxis did was remove firepower from the game. That means that now 
 spearman can defeat tanks, granted they have enough HP and defense bonuses, and that alone makes 
 me take one point off Civ 3s other wise flawless gameplay.
  
  The final change is in the AI department, which has also been improved considerably (mostly by 
 his absurd cheating of the AI) . However, this makes Deity AI a true hardcore players dream.
  
  Multiplayer: N/A
  
  This game has no multiplayer. It was later added in its expansion (Play 
 The World) , but it turned out to be very laggy over Gamespy so it was primarily a Hot Seat and 
 Play By Email affair.
  
  Overall: 9/10
  
  This game is great, and truly one of the best examples of how a TBS game should be made.
  
 
  Complex, simple and accessible to almost anyone willing to try it Civ 3 is the modern poster child 
 of the TBS genre. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: theunwn
Rating: 8.9
Date: Feb 28, 2006 1:18 am PT
Review:  Civ 3 is a masterpiece of a game. It is by far the most intricate, well thought out, in depth (strategy-wise) 
 game I have ever played. Being a turned based stategy game, it is not based on quick reflexes, 
 or being good with your hands. It is a thinking man's game. Given the setup, this game implies 
 in-depth stategy. It simulates the ruling of an empire through time with historical precision. 
 You control every aspect of your empire: including the tax rates of citizens, what city improvement 
 are built in each city, the entire operations of a military that is whatever size you can afford, 
 the type of government you are (which are very accurately represented) , even the direct actions 
 of all your workers. The ideas behind the game are virtuously flawless. The interface is very user-friendly, 
 and there is an easy to navigate "Civlopedia" that contains help info on basically evry aspect 
 of the game. What you do with you empire/nation is completely up to you, and the possibilities 
 are almost limitless, giving it infinite replay value. I have been playing this game for nearly 
 two years now, and I feel that I have barely scratched the surface of everything there is to due 
 in this game. No true strategy gamer should go without playing this masterful game... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: csaba69
Rating: 8.4
Date: Feb 19, 2006 7:17 am PT
Review:  Civ3 is the last version of the Sid Meier's series of Civilisation. It is a turn-based strategy 
 game simulating the rise and fall of civilisations from 4000 BC to 2100 AC. Players can win by 
 world-domination, cultural domination or by having the first space colony.
  
  Game play is based on a world-map. Main elements to control are cities (must be founded, or conquered 
 from other civilisations) and units (military and settlers) . Through taxation, funds are raised 
 for military action, city improvement, research and entertainment. Based on the competitive situation 
 all four must be kept in the right balance to progress.
  
  The game starts in 4000 BC and cities must be established and population size and military power 
 built. In mid-play, other cultures are encountered and positions established, collaboration, conflict. 
 The end-game is when alliances are fighting for the final power / world domination.
  
  There is no doubt that this is the benchmark for all role-based strategy games, like chess for 
 board games. The investment is an instant return due to the learning and the duration at which 
 this game remains encaptivating.
  
  The main drawback is that one game takes about 12-20 hours, and it is VERY difficult to stop when 
 a game has started. Moreover very limited automation support is provided, this means that the player 
 needs to stay focused on tactical decisions while running an entire empire. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hitman187x
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 17, 2006 5:24 am PT
Review:  Civilization III is a crowning achievement from Sid Meier's universe of turn-based strategy games. 
 Playtime has never been better.
  If you're new to this series, Civilization is a game of building just that: a civilization. As 
 a player, you start off in ancient times with a small nomadic tribe wishing to settle down. From 
 there you'll establish a capital city, and as the population increases, spread out to the surrounding 
 lands , conquering barbarians and impressing others with your culture.
  The graphics are absolutely amazing, a vast improvement over the already detailed graphics from 
 Civ 2. Animation has been added, giving the pawns a more life-like feel.
  Music selection varies according to the period of development, and each song adds orchestral flavor 
 to the scene.
  This is a must have for any PC gamer. Long hours and endless fun await you, oh Great Leader! * 
 * * * * 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mitrix
Rating: 8.6
Date: Feb 10, 2006 8:50 am PT
Review:  In my case, I picked up the Gold Ed...
  
  Following on from the ever popular Sid Meier (sp) Civilization franchise, Civ III once again opens 
 up the world to domination.
  
  Much of the game concept and gameplay remains the same as the previous versions, but the variety 
 of success strategies has pretty much exploded. With victories able to be based on cultural supremacy, 
 "capture the princess", regicide, mass-regicide and the ol' standby of global conquest, you can 
 pretty much play in any mindset you like and still have a chance of winning.
  
  The civilizations themselves have been updated, with personalities which can be played to or ignored. 
 A shortcoming is in the avatars, which, as with many current games, are a little disconcerting 
 if you're looking for reasonable attempts at facial expression.
  
  By and large though, the game is well put together, and the enhancements to game mechanics such 
 as troop advancement make this version certainly worth the wait we've had to put in for it. It's 
 at least as addictive and re-playable as the previous versions if not more so, and, let's face 
 it, who doesn't like the opportunity to dominate the peoples of the world? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: regulesblade
Rating: 6.9
Date: Feb 7, 2006 6:30 pm PT
Review:  The third installment of Civilizations comes ready to please its gamers. The graphics has been 
 improved once again this time utilizing even better cutting edge 3D graphics that will awe any 
 players who try and play the game. The game itself still functions the same where you begin in 
 a very primitive era and work your way up to the great modern day and beyond. Each of the different 
 factions have their own special bonuses that give them a distinction between them and the other 
 enemy soldiers but for the major portion of the game most sides share very similar units except 
 for a few tweaks here and there in terms of their strength and how much damage they can actually 
 take before they fall. This is still a very strong game that I would recommend for any gamers who 
 want to play a good strategy game, although I wouldn't recommend this online since for the most 
 part people are now only playing the 4th installment online. But if you ever want to play against 
 the AI and you want to get a game for a cheap price then this is the game to do it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rabbit_pie
Rating: 9.8
Date: Feb 5, 2006 4:16 am PT
Review:  The civilization games just keep getting better and better. This game is great, the graphics are 
 good, the sound is good and the gameplay is addictivly fantastic. At times this game can be challenging, 
 especially when it comes to war with other nations, but not to challenging to make it a bad game. 
 If your looking for a game that will keep you playing for a long time, look no further. Theres 
 not much else i can say about this game, its just brilliant thats all, forget renting it first, 
 go to the shop and buy it. If youve got any questions about this game or any others i have reviewed, 
 please feel free to end me a message and ill get back to you ASAP 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SLAYERZ666555
Rating: 9.1
Date: Feb 3, 2006 2:28 pm PT
Review:  This game has had me rooted to my computer since I got it. The concept is amazing, and the graphics 
 are superb. The realistic tribes, America, Rome and France to name a few, all have civ-specific 
 units that enhance the gaming experience. The leaders all had some sort of impact on the civilized 
 world, like Lincoln and Queen Elizabeth. The varieties of win conditions vary from Space Race to 
 Military Might. The only things I found wrong with it was that it encounters errors every so often, 
 and the opposing civilizations will dominate you quickly if you do not get established. Bugs and 
 all, this is truly a game to be remembered. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ThePuma007
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jan 23, 2006 3:21 pm PT
Review:  Needless to say, this game is just plain amazing. I for one was a pure real-time strategy player 
 until this game changed me into repecting the turn based strategy genre. This game has only two 
 flaws that I can tell. One being the fact that on some occassions Calvary can beat Modern Armor. 
 The other flaw is that diplomacy doesn't always work out in fair methods. Other than that, I have 
 spent many a day and night creating the perfect civilization. The replay value is never ending. 
 I, however, do not enjoy the multiplayer function only because the game can take several hours 
 for a single player and when you multiply that by one to three other players, games just don't 
 get completed. That is not the fault of this game though. It just a flaw that turn based games 
 have in general. Buy this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ahsanthekiller
Rating: 7.3
Date: Jan 19, 2006 1:46 am PT
Review:  Strategy games come in two categories, Real Time and Turn Based. Real time games run at a constant 
 speed. A common real time game is Age Of Empires. Turn based games run in a similar, yet different 
 way to chess. Each team, or in this case, civilization, is allowed to move each and every one of 
 their units once.
  Workers are different, because they take several turns to complete a job. Also, units, city improvements 
 and even technology take a certain number of turns to complete. Turns vary in the amount of years 
 they consume in the game. At the start, a turn is worth 50 years, but when approaching 2050, a 
 turn is only 2 years. There are a total of 540 turns in a game.
  This game needs very vital determination and need some coffee to wake up your mind. When i've first 
 played this game i thought that Age Of Empires is the best then when i played this game with strong 
 determination and with wake up mind i found that it is the best game of all. Now Civilization 4 
 is released with great 3D support and best detailed graphics attract the interest of gamers into 
 the game : ) - 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Buick87GNXv6
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 18, 2006 12:01 pm PT
Review:  Before you buy this game think to yourself what you like about turn based games and don't. If your 
 pros out weight the con than this is a good game. When reviewing this game I thought about the 
 gamers who would like it and wouldn't. The game first of takes hours out of your life so don't 
 be surprised if you start to lose track of time playing it. When I first played I couldn't stop 
 for hours, Before I knew it the nighttime had past and it was time for breakfast. That's still 
 without taking a civilization through out all of stages. 
  
  One of the most unique things about this game is the fighting system. Which will amuse others while 
 make others wonder why they ever bought this game. The game uses a system where you control every 
 player, and machine worker ships. So its very easy to forget what youre doing or get lost in 
 all the craziness. Even with all the people you have to control you can still use the option to 
 freeze them and not use, and this has its problems because you can very easily forget about all 
 your players and where everyone is. Some times though going to war is one of the most annoying 
 things in the world to do. This is because you need to relocate your people, which can take a lot 
 of turns. Now you have to sit through everyone's turn. This becomes a little redundant; this is 
 because now you may have to wait about 5-10 mins until your next turn. 
  
  Now that the bad is out the way lets talk about the positive. This game has a lot going for it. 
 One of the great things this game has is its culture system. You almost feel like your playing 
 a game with the other computer to see who can build the better "Wonder". The wonders also provide 
 you with a sort of power up. Like hurry production or it will build a unit for you. These units 
 are unique to you and are very strong. One of the most major things in this game is how you plan 
 to advance your civilization. First you start out with the simple build a wheel or bronze working, 
 but soon you will be working on the space ships and advanced flight. 
  
  This game has a very high replay value if you were very into the first time around. Civilization 
 has a random map genarator, so its like you never play the same game twice. The rules are very 
 flexible and you can do just about whatever you feel like on this game. If you feel like you want 
 to dominate the world you go ahead and do it, if you want to win the game with your culture you 
 have the option to do so with ease. The menus are easy to navigate and the booklet is laid out 
 very well in case you happen to run into problems. 
  
  All together it is a pretty strong game and while it will have those who don't like it. The people 
 who do like will most likely keep this game on its top caliber. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: sonicshadowman
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jan 17, 2006 1:53 pm PT
Review:  Civilization III
  
  Well civilization is a popular series by a popular producer: Sid Meier. The game is very fun but 
 like all games it has its flaws so lets start the review.
  
  
  
  Game play 9/10
  Well it is a RTS based around a Turns system where it takes so many turns to produce a unit, your 
 units walk about 3 units (little squares that map it out) Which can be enhanced by building roads. 
 Like many other conquer the world RTSs Wonders come into play. They can trigger a victory or trigger 
 a golden age.
  
  Graphics 8/10
  The graphics are very detailed and unique. But be warned they are not as good as rise of nations 
 and some other RTSs.
  
  
  
  In the end it is a very fun and addicting game that will keep you playing for hours!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: kasthala_ravi
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jan 12, 2006 1:33 am PT
Review:  Stay AWAY from it. Thats right. Its a quicksand. If you are strong then you cant get up. If u are 
 weak and having a tough time then nothing can pull you off the computer. This game is absolutely 
 beautiful. Would have been much better if the politics part was more immersive and crucial. But, 
 that might be addressed in the sequel.
  This is the best game an insomniac could hope for. No more twiddling of thumbs at night. Infact this 
 game makes insomniacs out of normal people. Truly captures the imagination of a strategy game enthusiast.
 
  Radical shift from the prequels. This marks a huge step in the strategy game genre. The gaming world 
 was not the same after this game's introduction. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LordSaczva
Rating: 8.3
Date: Dec 24, 2005 10:09 am PT
Review:  well this is a good game to play even if you aren't into turn based strategy and im not but i loved 
 the game.
  the AI is very good never giving away anything stupid even on the easiest mode, the war section 
 of the game is amazing tactically it encompasses everything.
  the range of units, civilisations, technology, buildings and government options are incredible 
 to totally change and customise any civilization totally to your desires.
  
  the graphics although reasonably old are good enough to keep the game alive even today it's a must 
 have for any rts fans in my opinion.
  
  it's reasonably hard as if you only build and focus on a few cities and don't intimidate other 
 civs with troops nearby and threats they will take advantage and pick on you demanding more and 
 more otherwise declaring war on you with many more cities and soldiers.
  learning time is around a hour as you learn all the buildings, technology, and sytems and soldiers 
 and their advantages/ disadvantages and theres quite a lot to learn which is good as it brings 
 depth to the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: darthhelmet376
Rating: 9.2
Date: Dec 20, 2005 6:32 pm PT
Review:  Civ III is a very good game; the game maps are well designed. The only problems I had was learning 
 how to use the interface properly and trying to make deals with the AI. Also the AI would just 
 surround your empire and not accept any kind of peace treaty after a certain point. Despite that, 
 I found Civ III to be enjoyable, and well worth the time learning to play. The units were highly 
 detailed, the options for the workers were well thought out, and the fact that the city governors 
 could run the city while the player focused on other things. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: emis815
Rating: 9.3
Date: Dec 18, 2005 7:28 pm PT
Review:  Well, after playing it for month I go bored of it, but after a while I play one game some times. 
 It gives a lot of info on history not boring junk but some interesting. Also you can find out what 
 each country is best in... It has great list of ways to win it. Not only by killing other nations 
 like most of games, but also u can win them by being the first to launch the rocket in space, or 
 win them by having the highest culture. And it have ton of other options... 
  It is game with which u can easily relax your nerves after some real action game. As it takes turns 
 you will not be sudenly supprized to be attacked by huge army...
  But I warn those who maybe want to get it. It is not action strategy but real strategic game... 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Shegevara
Rating: 8.1
Date: Dec 17, 2005 6:55 am PT
Review:  Yes, Its a game that is really cool and fantastic. If you see the scoring, game is really hard 
 to learn, specially for younger boyz 7,8 years old boys.
  
  I won't forgot the day I finnally buy this game.. I was crying of happiness and bliss.. Oh yes 
 game is crazy cool.
  
  but every game has its bad sides. Even the best games ever.
  Well, if this game has got perfect sound, titl, value, graphics
  
  then its gameplay suck my ass 
 out. Oh, i never see worst gameplay. I mean, how does a regular spear man so easily beats full 
 elite tank? OMG this is incredible and this cant be true.. many other things like this sh*t happens, 
 civ4 better do not have that gameplay, 'coz i won't buy it
  
  But game still rocks :) :) :) :P: P 
::::::

::::::
UserName: crazy1pumpkins
Rating: 4
Date: Dec 16, 2005 1:05 am PT
Review:  I have attempted to play civilization III numerous times simply because everyone says that it is 
 so great. I have kept trying to understand what it is that makes this game worthy of any recognition 
 at all. Finally after wasting hours of trying to get into the game, I've decided that I'm really 
 not the one missing anything here. The game just downright sucks.
  
  As a RTS veteran, I enjoy managing and commanding vast civilizations. But as you could expect from 
 a RTS addict, I'm not too familiar with turned based games. So I was eager to learn. One problem. 
 The tutorial is COMPLETELY USELESS. Instead of telling me what the hundreds of options and buttons 
 do, it displays random tips on the side of the screen. About the only walkthrough you get is about 
 how to move a settler, build a city, and attack with a warrior. Great....
  
  But even so, normally one would be able to figure out how to play effectively over time. That is 
 if the computer wasn't impossible on the easist difficulty level. Perhaps a civ I and II veteran 
 could master any computer opponent, but if you are new to civilization, prepare for pain. You'll 
 be in the stone age trying to figure out what the hell to do and suddenly you've got armies from 
 three nations, who decided to declare war on you together just for fun, raging through your pitiful 
 empire.
  
  Aside from being insanely hard, the combat system makes no freakin sense. Civilization III implements 
 a new combat system that deviates from traditional strategy/empire games. You see, in this game- 
 numbers don't matter. That's right, numbers do not matter... in fact unit types sometimes don't 
 matter either.. For example: I have had so many situations in which I surrounded a single enemy 
 unit with 5-7 stronger units, only to have each one slaughtered. I'm a little confused, because 
 I thought if an army had better technology and more units they would get that little thing called 
 an "advantage", not so in civ III. No, this is a stupid glitch. And its not an occassional glitch, 
 THIS HAPPENS ALL THE FREAKIN TIME. What is the deal here?
  
  Lets wrap things up shall we? The graphics are disgusting, the gameplay stinks and could be considered 
 "broken" at times, the sounds are not impressive, and I don't care how much of a strategy game 
 nut you are, but this game just takes too long, is too hard, and most importantly is too BORING.
 
  
  I really don't understand why gamestop gave this game such a good rating, (I'm not trusting that 
 specific reviewer ever again) , nor why everyone considers it so great. Do not buy into the hype, 
 unless you are a hardcore civ veteran. If you are new to the civ series, you're better off burning 
 your money rather than buying this game. Watching the flames would be more entertaining. Civ 4 
 doesn't look any more promising. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: colawar69
Rating: 9.6
Date: Dec 13, 2005 12:55 pm PT
Review:  This is one of the best games I have ever played. I always get addicted to it whenever I play. 
 I say I'm just going to play for like an hour then I can't stop until I've won (or lost in some 
 cases) . The animated battles between characters is sweet. And the theme totally kicks a**. I mean 
 come on. When you were young and had history class, I bet most of us were dreaming that we could 
 control one of the nations we were studying. Anyway, the game is very cool and I recommend it for 
 those who like turn-based, nation-controling games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Vamptech
Rating: 8.4
Date: Nov 28, 2005 4:08 am PT
Review:  While being my first expirience in the Civ series I dought i will ever find a game with so much 
 replayability. Even though i was never a fan of the 2D platform of any genre (really didnt game 
 hardcore until 3D became prevelant) i couldnt put this game away. Given the combination of winning 
 factors and complex infrastructure of your citys you can never play this game the exact same way 
 twice. Sound was repetative but tolerable, as were the few crashes i experienced. I trully understand 
 the cult following that this series has gathered. It goes without saying that i eagerly await any 
 future installment to the leader of the genre. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GMaxMan20
Rating: 9.3
Date: Nov 6, 2005 1:52 pm PT
Review:  Civilization 3 is the third in the critically acclaimed Civilization series. It comes from developer 
 Firaxis, home of the famed strategy game maker Sid Meier. The goal is simple; play as a ruler from 
 a certain nation, build up your empire, and win the game a number of different ways. But winning 
 the game isn't easy. It's hard........ Very hard. To build your empire you start with just a settler. 
 This settler becomes your first city. You have to create more settlers if you want more cities, 
 build armies and ships if you want to invade neighboring countries, fund your scientists to advance 
 through the ages, build wonders and structures in your cities to increase your culture, all while 
 making sure your citizens aren't sad so you don't fall into civil disorder. It's addictive, it's 
 entertaining, and you will cuss at your computer if it crashes and you haven't saved for several 
 hours. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mr_RPG_fan
Rating: 5.5
Date: Nov 4, 2005 9:22 am PT
Review:  Ok sorry to anyone who loves these games but i found that after the first 20 minutes I wanted to 
 go take a nap somewhere. really who ever heard of a game that takes over 24 hours to win. its crazy. 
 Whoever buys the next Civilization is wasting their money. i wish i could get a refund for the 
 copy of Civilization i bought. if you want a strategy game go buy Age of Empires or something because 
 that at least would be worth your money. i have never liked civilization as much as age of empires. 
 over all this game was a dissapointment and a waste of my good time and money.) = 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SkateGame
Rating: 8.8
Date: Nov 2, 2005 1:52 pm PT
Review:  Civilization III is a great strategy game that makes waiting and watching fun for a video game. 
 It is older so don't expect the best production values ever, just expect a game that will take 
 time to get used to and to finally get somewhere. All in all, the only game better (strategy-wise 
 of course) is Civilization IV.
  
  Gameplay is the most important aspect of the game, and Civilization gets it close to superb, with 
 only minor errors. The depth of the game is outstanding. You can build roads, mines, harvest resources, 
 manage your spendings and much more. However, the game has a slow learning curve, you will be addicted 
 the minute you master the game. I can't believe how real the game feels. It seems as if you're 
 a real leader, looking at a map and consulting your advisors. Advisors. They really help you find 
 your way throughout the game. You really need to look at your advisor screen often to address what 
 you are lacking in and what you need to accomplish. The game does seem a bit dull in the Ancient 
 Time, but when you really get towards the more advanced ages, the game barely misses perfection. 
 The only thing wrong in the game is that the whole battle mechaincs are mainly randomized which 
 can depend on the outcome of wars and the future of your cities. But if you have a big enough army, 
 this is only minor issue. All in all the game gets a 9 out of 10 in this category.
  
  The graphics aren't the best I've seen. they are good for animation, but still seem a bit clay-like. 
 The leaders also look very cartoonish at times which may put down some gamers' tastes. Then again, 
 a strategy game doesn't need graphics to succeed. As I see it, this game gets a 8 out of 10 here.
 
  
  The sound in the game is really.... off at times. They aren't really bad as they are repetitive. 
 Action sound effects are fine. Some things such as boat sounds and some artillery gets annoying 
 and just doesn't seem quite right. An example is when you lose a Galley in the ancient age. It 
 sounds really odd. But this is only concerning some of the sounds, like an eighth of the sounds. 
 The rest are perfectly fine, just they aren't outstanding and immersive. The music is really good. 
 In fact it really gets stuck in your head after a while. To me, I think the sound deserves a 7 
 out of 10.
  
  This game is worth every penny you own. It will keep you enthralled for weeks if not months. It 
 never gets old since there is a map maker and a countless amount of outcomes and options. Nowadays 
 you can get this game for somewhere between ten and twenty dollars. That's a bargain. The game 
 also doesn't take up much space on the computer either. So you won't have to second think about 
 getting because you're running out of room. Buy it! Here we go, 10 out of 10!
  
  This game will not be put down by many. Maybe one in a thousand or so will not like it at all. 
 Just give it time and it will be one of your favorite games of all time. It may be dated but it 
 ain't broke. It's immersion and depth will draw many. It is hard. Don't think it's a walk in the 
 park cause it will test you. It may even be a bit frustrating at times, but the ending reward definetly 
 out weighs the minor and somewhat annoying bugs. I think this game deserves a 9 out of 10 here.
 
  
  All in all, this game is classic. It shows that some older types of gaming can be just as fun as 
 Halo. In fact at times they beat Halo. If you wan't to get a game that you won't regret buying, 
 get Civ III. It's worth it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Moondrake
Rating: 4.4
Date: Jun 23, 2007 3:41 pm PT
Review:  I played Civilization for ages, then I played Civilization II for ages, and then I tried to play 
 Civilization III... and was completely thwarted.
  
  I was able to complete a few games on the simplest difficulty setting so, as any gamer would expect 
 to do, I bumped up the difficulty one notch to Warlord... and was never EVER able to compete against 
 the computer again. 90% of my games resulted in my not having access to iron, and of course the 
 computer always had it. This resulted in an early demise over and over and OVER again. On the few 
 occasions when I was able to last long enough to research gunpowder, I protected my cities with 
 walls, the Great Wall wonder, and Musketmen, but they couldn't hold up to the computer players' 
 relentless and neverending attacks by hordes of Swordsmen and Jaguar Warriors. They would attack 
 until my cities fell and nothing I tried could prevent it. I tried building more armies, but then 
 I ran out of money. I tried going on the offensive, but my supposedly advanced units died in preposterous 
 matchups. I tried making peace, but the computer players broke it. Eventually I would get to a 
 point where my cities couldn't research technology and build wonders as fast as the computer players 
 did... and everybody knows that the player with the best technology and most wonders wins.
  
  In the end, I finally got it... the game is UNPLAYABLE! So, I uninstalled it from my computer 
 and packed it up in its box so I would NEVER AGAIN be tempted to waste another moment playing it. 
 My recommendation is that you stay away from this stinker and play Civilization II. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheOneCow
Rating: 8.2
Date: Oct 25, 2005 8:23 am PT
Review:  Civilization III hooked me for maybe 20 hours before some evident flaws pulled down my interest. 
 First, for fans of Civ II, the "epic", "serious" feeling is now totally absent: this game doesn't 
 take itself seriously; it is more "gamish" and less "civilization-ish". For those who appreciated 
 how Civ 2 strived to make you proud of your cities and wonders, you might be disappointed. As someone 
 already said, there are no more in-game videos, and your opponents just look stupid.
  This example might give you a good idea of the change in atmosphere:
  Civ 2: "Start REVOLUTION? 
 - Yes / No"
  Civ 3: "You say you want a revolution? - Yeah, and it's gonna be alright! "
  
  However, Civ 3 has answered a lot of small frustrating things in the gameplay. Constructing 
 the spaceship is now much simpler (it now includes a party lounge *sigh*) , units in a stack get 
 eliminated one by one, lots of unuseful, tedious technologies have been removed - and replaced 
 -, settlers now only build cities, there is the worker unit for doing all the irrigation and stuff, 
 and it can be AI-controlled, etc. You'll also notice that there is a now a different music for 
 each epoch, though it is not always great and we would have appreciated different music for every 
 civilization... 
  As the Gamespot review mentioned, the end-game bogs down in endless micromanagement. Other things 
 are unbalanced. If you have a lot of cities over a large area, which inevitably occurs if you are 
 winning, corruption reduces your production to approximately 1% in most of your cities, even with 
 Democracy AND Courthouses in EVERY City. As a result, your only productive cities are your capital, 
 your secondary capital, and the few cities surrounding them. These few cities have to pay for the 
 improvements of every other in your empire, which just leech on your economy (think of it as P2P 
 networks :P) . This seems as a way to encourage trying other, less barbaric ways of winning such 
 as space exploration, being a peacemaker or a cultural leader. I'd like to express what I think 
 of such a concept but I can't use dirty language here so just use your imagination.
  
  Gameplay : 8
  
  Yes, it could have been better, (-1) , and it gets frustrating in the end, (-1) . 
 But hey, it's still great Civilization fun, so leave it there please.
  
  Graphics: 10
  
  The graphics are sweet and the animations look pretty nice. Nothing to moan about, it's 2D, 
 it's lush, it's vibrant, and it's effective.
  
  Sound: 8
  
  The sound effects are alright although sometimes there are weird bugs (-1) , and we hate the XXth 
 century music (-1) .
  
  Value: 9
  
  10 with the expansion, 8 without the expansion. Unlimited replayability, lots of civs, and we love 
 the scenarios in Conquest. Get the expansion, sir.
  
  Reviewer's Tilt: 7
  
  It's better than Civ II, but not enough. (-2)
  In some aspects (see above) Civ II is still better 
 (-1)
  
  If you are interested in an addictive, slow and intelligent game and you don't care about non-flashy 
 graphics or sound effects, and if you don't care about cheesy humour disrupting the epic-ness of 
 what could have been a very epic game (grrrr...) , then this game - with the expansion! - should 
 please you immensely.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mercator
Rating: 8.9
Date: Oct 22, 2005 9:32 pm PT
Review:  I love turn based strategy games. And Civilization games are the best of the bunch. With Civ3, 
 you get everything you could ask for in the franchise, but with updated graphics.
  
  One of my only gripes (and minor it is) , is the lack of in-game movies that the previous Civ 2 
 had. Dang, I wish they had those back. Rumor has it that Civ 4 is going to have them. Neato!
  
  Go ahead and get this game, but if your not a true fan of the series, just wait a few more 
 days for Civ 4 and get that instead. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dbjunior92
Rating: 8.8
Date: Sep 21, 2005 12:19 pm PT
Review:  I judge my games based on the overall experience I have with them. I always start with cons first, 
 and then the pros. Even if I love a game, I'm not blind to its shortcomings, and even this game 
 has them. Overall, the playing experience has been wonderful.
  
  Cons:
  
  1.) Game crashes once in awhile. This can be monstrously inconvenient, but sometimes crashes 100% 
 of the time during an opponent's move. Not a very bug-free game.
  
  2.) Too much micromanagement is needed on big maps.
  
  3.) There's still problems I have with 
 my marines, or mechanized infantry being killed by hoardes of primitive archers. I've had machine 
 gun infantry attacks stopped in mountains by pikemen. This is a ridiculous phenomenon.
  
  4.) Interface isn't very intuitive.
  
  5.) Graphics could have been better.
  
  6.) More 
 innovations could have been made.
  
  7.) Selectable male/female kings/queens would have been a welcome add-on. (Example: Napoleon or 
 Joan d'Arc for France.) Lincoln/Eleanor Roosevelt for USA. (Don't know about Roosevelt, but you 
 get the jist.. Let there be some choice.)
  
  Pros:
  
  1.) The Culture system is AWESOME. Great idea, Sid! 
  
  2.) Artillery as a suppression unit 
 should fire more than once, I think, to eliminate having to make so many, but it's a great unit 
 to have, and to use! The new implementation is a lot more "artillery-esque"
  
  3.) The healthy dose of civilizations in the game makes it a lot more worthwhile!
  
  4.) LOTS 
 of units! Good stuff! The pay-per upgrade is an excellent way to implement upgrades at a cost. 
 MUCH more realistic than the broad-brushed all-upgraded RTS and old CIV designs.
  
  5.) Heroes are an excellent addition to the game! Scientific leaders, and military leaders add 
 depth, and really reward the player. What a superb add-on!
  
  6.) Armies! Kudos to Sid Meier! Only gripe I have is the sound using them is so repetitive.
  
 
  7.) You stayed true to form, and true to live with the Civ series, Sid! You're to be commended 
 for keeping what works, and improving what needed improving! Your 4th installment will be a masterpiece.
 
  
  Overall, this game is absolutely aweome, and with the popularity of this game comes the vast scenarios 
 available! Awesome awesome awesome! Keep it up, Sid!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: monkeygear
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jul 6, 2005 4:55 am PT
Review:  Before you buy this game think to yourself what you like about turn based games and don't. If your 
 pros out weight the con than this is a good game. When reviewing this game I thought about the 
 gamers who would like it and wouldn't. The game first of takes hours out of your life so don't 
 be surprised if you start to lose track of time playing it. When I first played I couldn't stop 
 for hours, Before I knew it the nighttime had past and it was time for breakfast. That's still 
 without taking a civilization through out all of stages. 
  
  One of the most unique things about this game is the fighting system. Which will amuse others while 
 make others wonder why they ever bought this game. The game uses a system where you control every 
 player, and machine worker ships. So its very easy to forget what youre doing or get lost in 
 all the craziness. Even with all the people you have to control you can still use the option to 
 freeze them and not use, and this has its problems because you can very easily forget about all 
 your players and where everyone is. Some times though going to war is one of the most annoying 
 things in the world to do. This is because you need to relocate your people, which can take a lot 
 of turns. Now you have to sit through everyone's turn. This becomes a little redundant; this is 
 because now you may have to wait about 5-10 mins until your next turn. 
  
  Now that the bad is out the way lets talk about the positive. This game has a lot going for it. 
 One of the great things this game has is its culture system. You almost feel like your playing 
 a game with the other computer to see who can build the better "Wonder". The wonders also provide 
 you with a sort of power up. Like hurry production or it will build a unit for you. These units 
 are unique to you and are very strong. One of the most major things in this game is how you plan 
 to advance your civilization. First you start out with the simple build a wheel or bronze working, 
 but soon you will be working on the space ships and advanced flight. 
  
  This game has a very high replay value if you were very into the first time around. Civilization 
 has a random map genarator, so its like you never play the same game twice. The rules are very 
 flexible and you can do just about whatever you feel like on this game. If you feel like you want 
 to dominate the world you go ahead and do it, if you want to win the game with your culture you 
 have the option to do so with ease. The menus are easy to navigate and the booklet is laid out 
 very well in case you happen to run into problems. 
  
  All together it is a pretty strong game and while it will have those who don't like it. The people 
 who do like will most likely keep this game on its top caliber. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: AloofTrashman
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jan 24, 2005 6:10 pm PT
Review:  Sid Meier is the game world's Don Cheadle. He's an amazing game developer, and yes, his name is 
 part of every game, but he never gets the recognition of say a Shigeru Miyamoto or a Hironobu Sakaguchi. 
 Alas, he has made another solid game in Civilization III.
  
  Civilization III has no story whatsoever but in a way, it is to the game's strength. Much like 
 the previous two games in the series, the focus is on the gameplay. And once again, Firaxis has 
 created very tight and engaging gameplay that will suck you in and encapsulate you for hours on 
 end.
  
  The game starts out with you picking the gameworld (such as how old the planet is, whether there 
 is a central land mass or seperate continents, and what type of climate the overbearing planet 
 is) . These choices minutely affect gameplay, such as what resources appear and how global warming 
 comes into play later on. The game then prompts you to choose a nationality, ranging from the Iroquois 
 to the Greeks to the good 'ole Americans. Choosing what race you are plays significantly into the 
 gameplay. For instance, the Americans, who are classified as industrious and expansionist, are 
 given a boost when building advancements and are given an explorer at the outset of the skirmish. 
 Other civilizations are given similar advantages that other civilizations don't have. In addition, 
 each civilization can produce two unique units during certain time periods, again which other civilizations 
 cannot make.
  
  After the outset, Civilization is about the same it's been for the past six years, but since Meier 
 and company pretty much got the turn-based strategy nailed down the first time, they instead chose 
 to improve on the tried-and-true gameplay. You'll still build cities to expand your empire, learn 
 advancements to improve your cities, and produce units to protect them. New to the game, however, 
 is culture. Many of the advancements built in the game produce culture, and the more culture a 
 nation has, the wide its border extends. This brings a new gameplay element as well: cultural takeover. 
 If two cities share borders, and one city has significantly more culture than another, then the 
 nation with more culture will essentially convince the "uncultured" city to join their nation, 
 again widening its borders. This new element adds a new wrinkle in the gameplay system, and gives 
 gamers a whole new way to play.
  
  The science and technology aspect of the game has been retooled as well. The technology tree in 
 the game clearly shows what tech advancement leads to where, and adds another layer of depth to 
 the game. Whereas some may elect to learn absolutely everything, some may speed ahead to new ages 
 and leave old technologies behind. Either way proves to be rewarding and successful, as there is 
 no real "wrong" way to play Civilization III.
  
  Despite all of the well thought-out and deep gameplay, there are a few chinks in the proverbial 
 armor. First of all, for all of those who are Civilization virgins, learning this game will be 
 a long and difficult road. Luckily, the included tutorial is helpful for learning the ropes of 
 the system, and the in-game civilopedia is helpful for quick reference. Another fault in the game, 
 although somewhat unavoidable, is the AI think time later on in the game. Once you hit the 20th 
 century, expect wait times of up to three (!) minutes in between each of your turns. The AI is a 
 competant opponent, however there is a strange quirk later in the game in which they'll still have 
 severely outdated units (such as primitive warriors when they could have infantry) . Also, more 
 often than not the workers or engineers will keep moving back and forth doing nothing other than 
 wasting your time. Outside of these minor quirks, however, the gameplay is rock-solid.
  
  The graphics and sound take a backseat to the deep gameplay, but they more than do the job. Graphically, 
 the game is crisp and clean; and the unit's animations, if not anything special, do the job. Likewise, 
 the sound is nothing spectacular, and what little music there is appropriate but subdued. Again, 
 the graphics and sound do the job, but it's nothing that great.
  
  Civilization III is an underappreciated game. It's fully realized and incredibly deep, and you 
 can get sucked in and play for hours. It's a highly addictive game, and anyone who enjoys a good 
 strategy game should consider buying Civilization III. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CanadianNooB
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jan 16, 2005 3:25 pm PT
Review:  Civilization III is a must have for any strategy gamer. The game is still frighteningly addictive, 
 constantly dangling new accomplishments in front of players who, at 3 am, are still planning on 
 playing "just one more turn." The game unveils huge revisions to the core gameplay, allowing the 
 game to finally reach the potential first hinted at by its predecessors. Players now have the opportunity 
 to fully explore and experiment with the complex factors that make a nation great or forgettable. 
 Civilization III offers a gameplay experience that, while fun and addictive, is also profound and 
 thought provoking. It excels as a history lesson, as social commentary, an intellectual puzzle, 
 and an infinitely replayable, highly enjoyable game. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: aerdt
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jan 4, 2005 6:26 pm PT
Review:  The Civilization series defines the genre of turn-based strategy games and empire builders. Although 
 the graphics seem to be a little outdates compared to the polished 3D engines of today's games, 
 Civilization 3 has not lost its appeal and is a great value in terms of replayability. Although 
 by many considered "antique", "backwards" and "boring", Civilization 3 offers many scenarios and 
 features for the serious strategy gamer without getting boring. The map, alliances, wars and infrastructures 
 are unique with every game.
  
  This genre might not appeal to everyone, but is still highly recommended for the serious strategist 
 offering a fairly deep city/empire management simulation. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Giddieon
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 15, 2004 7:50 pm PT
Review:  This is a great game if your looking for a strategy game that will make console gamers jealous 
 than this is the game for you!!! You like politics you like micromanagement than this game will 
 be should be has to be in your PC library because if you don't have this game you are truly missing 
 something. This game will be well worth the money and Sid Meier will go down in history as one 
 of the best game developers this side of mars. Just talking about this game has already has me 
 wanting to spin the cd and play a few hours of the night away. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DemonKyoto
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 21, 2004 9:52 pm PT
Review:  Introduction: Civilization III, one of the children of Sid Meier. Civilization III is the 3rd installment 
 in his award winning Civilization series. In Civ III, you, in a step up from the city building 
 series from Impressions Games, have to build up an entire Civilization. You have the landmass, 
 its up to you to place the cities, and govern how they grow, what technologies they learn in what 
 order, from the cavemen era up to modern day and beyond.
  
  Gameplay: In Civ III, you start off by chosing one of several civilizations, such as the Egyptians, 
 the Chinese, the Americans, etc. Then you get a large continent landmass and begin to build. You 
 chose where a city goes, and what it will build. The game is turn based, you move 1 small worker 
 per turn, and when you select what a city will build, that will be acomplished after so many turns. 
 There is usually another civilization in the area, also growing, eventually, your borders will 
 meet, and war may break out. As your cities grow and make new discoveries, it will advance thru 
 the ages, its technological abilities growing more advanced. Eventually, your civilization will 
 work up from arrows and fire, to lasers and rocketships.
  
  Story: There really isnt a story to Civ III. You just have to create your civilization and advance 
 it.
  
  Graphics and Sound: The graphics are fairly good and clear and work great for this type of game. 
 As for the sound... i dont really remember any sounds, so ill rate them as crappy. If you cant remember 
 them, they couldnt have been that good.
  
  Replayability: After playing the game thru and making your civilization, you might replay a few 
 times so you can test out the differant civilizations, but after that, you'll most likely move 
 on to another game, unless you really fall in love with the game.
  
  Final Recommendation: In the end, i give Civilization III an 8/10. Its a great fun game that'll 
 keep you entertained, at least until you've covered all of the civilizations. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wizeguy525
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 15, 2004 11:46 pm PT
Review:  If you're a dedicated fan of the Civ series or Turn Based strategy then this is simply a MUST HAVE! 
 This game is in a class of its own. The only other game that has come close to what the Civilization 
 series offers is a game by Activision called Call To Power, but even that series in the end came 
 up short of what the Civilization series brings to the table. Multiple Goverments to choose from 
 to run your nation, a big scientific tech tree, and unique units for each Civilization are what 
 set this game apart from the rest. A definate great Solo game, if multiplayer is your thing, this 
 game also has a multiplayer option but you need to have one of it's expansion game in order to 
 play multiplayer. Multiplayer was somewhat a dissapointment to me. Slow and laggy game play didn't 
 meet my expectations, but its still worth checking out if you love this genre as much as I do. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dryden555
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 27, 2004 3:04 am PT
Review:  I've been playing Civ. since the first game, and always enjoyed the small improvements (mostly 
 graphical) with each sequel. But, really, it is time to re-think the endlessly long later part 
 of any Civilization game. Even with improved auto-settlers and way-points for your troops, it all 
 takes far too long once you have about 20 cities. In larger wars, it can be micro-mangement over-kill 
 and I actually like these types of games.
  
  Smaller maps are one option but this isn't much of a solution for a game about warring civilizations.
 
  
  Some game comapny needs to revamp the core ideas of Civilization so that it is more fast-paced 
 in the later parts of the game, but still turn-based and strategic. The real-time mouse-clicking 
 combat of "Rise of Nations" left me cold. Real-time is not the solution. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: antwont
Rating: 7
Date: Oct 22, 2004 12:56 am PT
Review:  I don't like this game one bit. The game has no good decent story ( which most strategy games dont 
 but are still well worth the wait ) . The games graphics suck, not to be rude but in th 21st century, 
 everything has good graphics. The fighting sucks even worse than everything else. One on one? In 
 real life, you wouldn't send one man to fight a city or another person. Everyone would ( in my 
 opinion) would rather send an army instead one man. I would have to complement to the makers that 
 it has a good trade and management system in the game. The only thing it's good at. Another thing 
 is that the potrayals of the leaders suck. They probably didn't look like that. And when the the 
 empires change ages, the leaders change too!! Might as well change the whole entire world geography 
 with that too! I wouldn't recommand this game to anyone and totally disagree with score Gamespot 
 gave it. PEACE OUT!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sir_Graham
Rating: 9.7
Date: Sep 4, 2004 8:50 am PT
Review:  For those who haven't played the series before Civilization is a historical turn-based strategy 
 game. Upon starting the game you will get to choose to lead various civilizations throughout the 
 course of history. Then the game will give you a choice of map types, climate conditions, world 
 size, world age ect. and will then randomly generate resources onto the chosen map type. It's this 
 random generation of maps that is one of the things that gives the game such great replay value. 
 Resources play a big role in the game and you can only see where they are once you have the technology 
 to use them which means that more often than not you will have to trade with other countries to 
 get something not found within your borders, or take it by force the choice is yours.
  
  Which brings me to the many different ways the game can be played. Having high culture points is 
 just about as powerful as having a strong military and can be used to expand your borders by other 
 cities liking your culture so much they want to join you. Military might is also certainly still 
 an option and your units will gain experience from combat to become more powerful. However war 
 is never looked on kindly by your citizens and you may have riots on your hands if it goes on too 
 long and you started it in the first place. The way you act in matters of both peace and war determines 
 how much other cultures trust you. If you are known for breaking treaties and raising cities other 
 cultures will be very cautious of you and sometimes just plain angry when they negotiate with you. 
 Your reputation with other cultures plays a role in all your negotiations whether it be for trade 
 or rallying other countries to join in a military alliance with you against an enemy. 
  
  There is a lot involved in almost every aspect of Civ 3 and city building and unit creation is 
 very intense but considering how much is going on they handled the interface quite well and it 
 never overwhelms you. This is also another aspect of the game that adds to its addictiveness, there 
 is simply always something going on and new plans to be hatched or revised with each turn. There 
 are five different ways to achieve victory in the game (Domination, Diplomatic, Cultural, Space 
 and Military) but i have found my most enjoyable games have been those where i just focused on 
 building a really great civilization to live in. I found it very rewarding and kept on playing 
 after i had won the game. On the easiest difficulty the game is... well very easy but on the hardest 
 difficulty it is almost impossible and you will be spending a lot of playtime trying to beat it 
 in all 5 ways on even the second hardest difficulty. The game just oozes re-playability and challenge.
 
  
  The graphics in Civ 3 are good for it's genre and everything looks very nice. Being a TBS there 
 isn't much room for really flashy or fast graphics so it isn't exact the game you would show your 
 new graphics card off with :) but like i said it all looks very nice and is functional. The sound 
 is also pretty solid and each age has music which defines the age and adds some atmosphere to the 
 game. Despite the game not having state of the art graphical effects you would be surprised how 
 easily you get drawn into the game world. The graphics have also aged well because they are designed 
 from a functional/artistic perspective rather than showing off the latest effects of the time.
 
  
  If you can't tell by now i really love this game and consider it to be a classic. It's the kind 
 of game that will stand the test of time and you will still be playing years from now. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Equals42
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 1, 2004 1:35 am PT
Review:  According to Websters Collegiate Dictionary, addiction can be defined as a compulsive need for 
 and use of a habit-forming substance characterized by tolerance and by well-defined physiological 
 symptoms upon withdrawal. The addictive substance in question can be identified as any computer 
 game from Sid Meier. This is most certainly true for his latest masterpiece Civilization III. For 
 those of you not familiar with the computer game legend, Sid Meier and his nearly decade old Civilization 
 franchise are inductees into just about everyones computer game Hall of Fame.
  
  With Civilization III, Sid Meier and company have taken all they have learned from the three previous 
 installments of their conquer the world strategy game and refined it into an elegant turn-based 
 strategy game that is so addictive that I guarantee you will lose sleep, lose weight, and ignore 
 your family. I say three previous installments because I consider Alpha Centauri, which takes place 
 in the future on a colonized planet, to be part of the Civilization franchise. Sid Meier and his 
 Civilization game defined what has become to be known in gaming circles as the 4-X game: eXplore, 
 eXpand, eXperiement, and eXterminate. Civilization III is the new signature game of that strategy 
 genre.
  The 4-Xs Explained
  
  For those of you who may not know, the premise of any 4-X game is really quite simple in concept. 
 Starting with one single settler, you must start a civilization, explore your surroundings and 
 expand into new areas where new resources can be harnessed. As you expand, you must experiment 
 with new technologies and advance the knowledge of your civilization so that it can continue to 
 grow. Of course, there are eight or so other burgeoning civilizations trying to do the same thing. 
 Since there can only be one supreme ruler, at some point these competing civilizations must be 
 exterminated either by war, attrition or absorption.
  
  While that may seem deceptively simple, the depth of Civilization III and the attention to detail 
 famous in all Sid Meier games, makes game play quite addictive. There are so many factors to keep 
 track of during each move  what is each city building, what land improvement is each worker performing, 
 what resources are each citizen generating, what form of government is best for the civilization 
 at this point, what research should be conducted, should the civilization declare war or conduct 
 trade? These are just a few of the questions that must be answered.
  
  As you answer each question and plan your next move, you feel compelled to go to the next turn 
 to make sure it is working they way you wanted. However, this feeling of being compelled to see 
 the fruits of your labor during the next move is there at the end of every move. This is where 
 the addictive properties of Civilization III kick in. As you play, time compresses, eating and 
 sleeping become less important and family obligations just get in the way of your world conquest. 
 
  
  For Civilization III, Firaxis developed a new and improved interface that simplifies a very complicated 
 game into an elegant, everything you need at your finger-tips, advisor metaphor. Using advisor 
 screens, players can get a handle on the various aspects of their growing civilization, such as 
 foreign relations, economics, citizen unrest, and military status.
  
  The in-game graphics and sounds are wonderfully depicted and add to the overall feel of playing 
 a supreme leader. The art is colorful without being overpowering and you will seldom find yourself 
 wondering what unit that icon is supposed to represent. All aspects of game design are top-notch. 
 The game manual is a small book of 235 pages and will take some serious study time to read completely. 
 But it does come with an index to help you find what you are looking for later.
  
  The one complaint I have with Civilization III in comparison to Alpha Centauri, the third game 
 in the series, and the other previous Civilization games, is the lack of philosophical and historical 
 discovery. I miss the little pieces of philosophical debate that takes place in Alpha Centauri 
 as you discovered new technology. Those little multimedia pieces served to raise the stakes on 
 the players decision to use or not use a new technology. There were social and ecological consequences 
 to exploiting resources. While there are still consequences for using a certain technology in Civilization 
 III, they are more abstract and less severe than before.
  
  The game is rated E-Everyone by the ESRB. Which is appropriate for the game in terms of violence 
 I guess, but certainly this game is beyond the cognitive capabilities of most pre-teens. Or if 
 not beyond their cognitive capabilities, certainly beyond their attention span. My apologies to 
 the child prodigies out there of course.
  Crafting a Civilization
  
  This game is the epitome of the 4-X strategy game. If you have not played a game in this genre 
 before, Civilization III is an excellent introduction. However, be forewarned that this is not 
 a simple game to play and it is certainly not a quick game. Action gamers will have to do some 
 major downshifting if they want to master it.
  
  For lovers of this genre, many of which probably bought a copy of this game the week it was released, 
 Civilization III is really nothing new. It is the same 4-X game we know and love, done about as 
 well as it can be done. While it may not take the genre into any new direction, it is still a worthy 
 addition to your game library.
  
  Sid Meier is a master craftsman of computer games. He has mentored and developed a staff of fellow 
 game developers that follow his established principles of high quality game play. Civilization 
 III is the capstone achievement of the series. It is an example of what can be accomplished by 
 talented, motivated and principled game developers.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: FuzzyBunny55
Rating: 9.3
Date: Aug 24, 2004 2:47 am PT
Review:  If you've ver played any of the civilation games you'll know that this series is one of the most 
 tried and true gameplay formulas out there. I'm mainly going to focus on the gameplay imrovements 
 over the previous games here. One of the best parts about Civ 3 is the new borders system. Instead 
 of having your borders based on a set amount around each city, it is generated by a new factor 
 called you culture. Another great improvement are the resources and the trade system. In the trade 
 system you can know trade just about anything for anything else. The resources have been completely 
 overhauled. You now need certain tactical resources to produce different unit types, such as iron 
 for swordsmen. This has been a pretty brief look at some of the things that I like about civ 3. 
 If you want to know more check out the gamespot review. All you really need to know though is that 
 this is one of the best games ever made. It will pull you ina and not let you go until you are 
 done. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nahorner9
Rating: 8.8
Date: May 5, 2004 3:56 pm PT
Review:  This was the first time I'd ever played any Civilization game so I'm basing this review totally 
 on the fact that Civ3 was the first and only turn-based stategy game I'd ever played. Overall, 
 the game for me was extremely cool for a couple of reasons. 
  
  (1) The game is turn-based. Now there are probably some disadvantages to this (it can really slow 
 down the flow of play) , but I thought that it really added to the game. There are different kinds 
 of stategies in Civ3, not all of them miliary, and with turn-based playing I was able to better 
 formulate stategies and take my time, a very good thing for a beginning Civ player like myself.
 
  (2) The tech tree was very complex... in a good way. There are so many different avenues of research 
 one can pursue: miliary, cultural, territorial, ect. 
  (3) The progression through time. What makes Civ3 really awesome is how your country starts off 
 in the stone ages, with primitive warrior and then ends ups with modern tanks rolling around and 
 stealth aircraft bombing enemy cities. 
  
  These are some of the good highlights. One bad hightlight is the following.
  -- Replayability. 
 Sure there are many different countries and each one is somewhat unique, but they are all basically 
 the same and it seemed to me that when you've played a few different countries you've played them 
 all. Sure some are more military-focued than others, but they are all very similar so as I kept 
 playing I started getting bored.
  
  In conclusion, I would recommend this game for any turn-based fan or someone who is used to fast-paced 
 action of Age of Empires and wants a change. I really enjoyed this game and continue to play it 
 again and again. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DMalone780
Rating: 8.9
Date: Apr 10, 2004 2:29 pm PT
Review:  Some people want to compare this to Call to Power but remember that Call to Power was not done 
 by Sid but I think by Activision as a seperate product. They thought they could do Civ better but 
 I don't think they did.
  
  Now on to Civ 3. This is the most deep version of The Civilization franchise that I have played 
 and it is very challenging but is also very satisfying. You will have to learn new ways to play 
 Civilization with respect to the zone of contral around your cities. It is now more favorable to 
 remain at peace than to remain at war just like it should be. You will have to fight and you better 
 be prepared because I think the AI plays a pretty good game within its limits.
  
  The game in any version (I don't reccomend Call to Power) is very fun and can easily keep you playing 
 until late into the night. The game is recognized as a Hall of Fame title by Computer Gaming World 
 and every one should at least download the demo and try it for themselves. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
