-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Civilization: Call to Power
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/strategy/civilizationcalltopower/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Apr 16, 1999
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 6.7
Critic Score: 7.2, 15 Review (s)
User Score: 7.5, 519 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Activision
Genre: Historic Turn-Based...
Date:     Mar 31, 1999
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Whatever else you may think about Call to Power, you have to admire the ambition behind the effort. 
 

 The stakes don't get much higher than this. In Civilization: Call to Power, we have the answer to 
 what some would call the single-most daunting challenge in PC gaming: to design the direct heir 
 to Civilization II, widely regarded as the best turn-based strategy game of all time.   

 Whatever else you may think about Call to Power, you have to admire the ambition behind the effort. 
 This is not a mere rehash of Civilization II. Rather, it is a bold step in a new and at times almost 
 entirely different direction. The designers took the opportunity to revisit almost every major 
 aspect of the Civ II experience - units, combat, interface, graphics, and more. While superficial 
 similarities exist, in truth, Civilization: Call to Power bears less resemblance to Civilization 
 II than Civilization II did to the original Civilization. Indeed, one could argue that Call to 
 Power has less in common with its immediate predecessor than does this year's other turn-based 
 strategy behemoth, Sid Meier's Alpha Centauri.  

 The obvious question, then, is whether this uniqueness is good or bad. And the answer, of course, 
 is that it's both. As for the natural follow-up question - Does the good outweigh the bad? - the 
 answer is yes, but barely.  

 Let's start with the good. Call to Power's graphics are beautiful, far superior to any previous 
 Civ game and even to Alpha Centauri. The animations are wonderfully detailed, and the sound effects 
 are first class (although at times I must admit I wished my units weren't quite so vocal in their 
 response to being clicked on) . And the inclusion of seamless multiplayer support right out of the 
 box is a welcome feature, indeed.  

 But the single best aspect of Call to Power is that, for the first time in this series, it puts 
 the concept of "empire" front and center. This might seem like an odd statement - after all, the 
 Civ games are all about empire building, aren't they? Actually, they're not. They're really about 
 city-level management - many cities and many levels to be sure - and with few exceptions, the Civ 
 games' policy-management controls, support schemes, and even interfaces are oriented around individual 
 cities rather than the empire as a whole.  

 Not so in Call to Power, which takes a global approach to empire building. A few key examples: Units 
 no longer are supported by a specific city, but by the empire itself; city improvements (tile improvements) 
 are no longer built by settlers, but financed and supported by the empire; and while city-specific 
 management is allowed, it must always be done within the parameters of the empire's global fiscal 
 and social policies.   

 These are just a few examples; this empirecentric orientation permeates the entire game, including 
 the interface. Out are the city-specific screens and the associated subscreens of the old Civ games. 
 In is a new universal command module that occupies the bottom right of the screen. Once you become 
 acquainted with it, this command bar lets you easily monitor and quickly modify nearly every aspect 
 of your civilization - production, research, wealth, social policies - and the cities within it, 
 all at the click of a mouse and all without leaving the main map view. The net result is that you 
 feel highly informed about what's happening in the game and can change strategic focus and react 
 to events more rapidly than ever before. This is a refreshing change of pace from previous Civ 
 games and is just the way this would-be emperor likes it.  

 But Activision's focus on the big picture costs the company dearly when it comes to the small details 
 that made earlier Civ games so entrancing. Basic elements like an autosave function, a research 
 goal assistant, and built-in scenarios are all inexplicably absent. And Call to Power's many innovations, 
 while welcome in theory, are often poorly thought out or poorly implemented. The building queue 
 system, for example, seems unnecessarily difficult to navigate and doesn't let you insert items 
 into an existing queue. The autopathing feature is a great concept, but it's far too easy to accidentally 
 send a unit in the wrong direction with an inadvertent click, and when he's heading the right direction, 
 it's far too common for him to get lost along the way. The new combat system, which allows the 
 use of multiple units in classic combined-arms fashion, seems promising at first but soon reveals 
 itself to be both shallow and unrealistic (no way to control attack sequences or to retreat? a 
 warrior taking down a SAM launcher? Come on!) and soon had me longing for the more simplified one-on-one 
 combat of the earlier games.  

 The same criticism - trying to do too much and as a result not doing any of it particularly well 
 - applies to several other aspects of the game. But it is most serious in terms of the "guts" of 
 the game, namely the units, technologies, and wonders. For the most part, all these are new, and 
 there are more (many more) of all of them than ever before. In fact, the sheer number of strategic 
 possibilities available is so great that few players will ever have the time to explore them all, 
 let alone master them.   

 And with so many options, it is almost inevitable that gameplay balance issues will result, and 
 that in turn means you will be required to play a defensive game. There are so many potential threats, 
 and their effects can be truly devastating - enough to wreck an entire game in a frighteningly 
 short period of time. Disciplined players will spend much of their time with Call to Power preparing 
 to face as many potential threats as possible (realizing all the time that the threats may never 
 actually arise) , while the more cavalier will have to deal with the reality that their entire game 
 could be put in jeopardy at any moment. Either way, it's a dire situation.  

 To illustrate this point, consider the new "super" units introduced in Call to Power. With names 
 like the slaver, the ecoterrorist, and the televangelist, these units generally represent the most 
 depraved aspects of human civilization and have the ability to wreak absolute havoc on anyone who 
 stands in their way. The ecoterrorist, for example, can single-handedly wipe out all the buildings 
 in an entire city. All of them! Imagine the horror! Or consider the slaver, who can steal citizens 
 from your cities literally right from under your nose, crippling you during the critical growth 
 phase early in the game. Or how about the televangelist, who can divert money directly from your 
 coffers to those of a rival empire, and who can only be stopped through a suit by the lawyer, yet 
 another depraved superunit.  

 Once you've fallen prey to any of these scourges, you will not be able to play the game without 
 worrying about defending against them. And that forces you to adopt strategies and expend resources 
 in ways that you will likely find extremely frustrating. For example, to be assured of stopping 
 the slaver, you have to build city walls for all your cities, the earlier the better. At a time 
 when you're trying to expand your empire, and when the prospect of direct attack from rivals is 
 unlikely, what a tragedy to be forced to build this expensive and time-consuming improvement! But 
 in order to be secure, you absolutely must.   

 And this, ultimately, is the undoing of Civilization: Call to Power: The more you know about the 
 game, the less freedom you will have in playing it. Civilization II succeeded because it was relatively 
 simple, and a dedicated player could learn to use every unit, technology, improvement, and wonder 
 in the game. As a result, it was (and is) almost endlessly replayable, inviting you to return time 
 and again with new strategies and tactics.   

 In contrast, Call to Power discourages extended play, by repeatedly hammering home the fact that 
 you don't know it all, and in all likelihood, never will. And so, despite the fact that it is a 
 solid game and despite the fact that it takes the Civilization premise in an interesting new direction, 
 Call to Power leaves a lot to be desired. The old adage is right: Sometimes, less is more.    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (8 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: jodamn
Rating: 9.3
Date: Aug 3, 2007 6:12 pm PT
Review:  Civilization: Call to Power was revolutionary for its time. Not everyone fully appreciated the 
 new playing mechanics, and the interface can be far from intuitive in places. However, CTP clearly 
 overcomes any flaws to become a fun and very-playable game. Unlike most other Civilization games, 
 the future era doesn't feel like an afterthought, tacked on for those players who haven't gotten 
 bored yet. Like any Civilization game, real estate becomes more and more valuable throughout the 
 course of a game. However, in CTP, future technology changes everything: after the right research 
 projects, entire cities can be constructed on the ocean floor or in geosynchronous orbit. Space 
 Fighters can leave the atmosphere to make a long trek into a single-turn one. Multi-legged troop 
 transports scuttle across the sea floor to invade rival undersea cities. Swarm troops drop from 
 orbit into a freshly-nuked city. All in all, Call to Power is a very engaging experience. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Phaje
Rating: 9.6
Date: Feb 2, 2007 8:45 am PT
Review:  This was the first Civilization game I ever played, and after having played every other one (aside 
 from the first) I have to say it is the best, by far. I actually bought the other Civ games because 
 I liked this game so much, only to be disappointed because they sucked so bad in comparisson. This 
 game is simply great. Aside from some bugs which the patches fix, and inferior (by modern standardS) 
 graphics, it is one of my favorite games even all these years.
  
  Gameplay: The gameplay is probably the best aspect of this game. It is a solid 10, and Gamespot 
 doesn't know what the hell they are talking about. Aside from having a much better interface then 
 regular Civ games, the way you manage your empire is much more realistic as well as streamlined. 
 Forget that moronic ridiculous micro city bull****, as well as having units tied to a particular 
 city. I'm sorry but I thought the point of building a civlization was to manage the civilization 
 (and do some happy warfare, of course) , not sit around for hours micro managing every stupid city. 
 Warfare is a lot more entertaining in this game, due to the fact that units are not tied to the 
 city of origin but are supported by the empire (which is much more realistic. you don't see US 
 fighter squadrons being decomissioned because the city the damn planes were built in mistakenly 
 built a few too many, do you?) . Diplomacy leaves something to be desired as it seems nearly impossible 
 to make fair deals, or even deals that are highly beneficial to the AI, even when said nation is 
 practically in love with you.
  
  The game has a useful library which is a lot better then the cluttered haphazardly thrown together 
 crap in Civ 3 or Civ 4. Best of all, is the ability to go into the future. For some reason that 
 is incomprehensible to me and any sane person out there, the mainstream Civ games stop in the modern 
 age. Not only does this give ridiculously stupid advantages to nations that have specific benefits 
 in the modern age (like the Americans with the F-15) , but it kind of completely defeats the purpose 
 of building your empire to begin with. As far as I know, the United States has not stopped researching 
 new technology and weapons in the real world, and started researching 'future tech' to gain points. 
 I highly doubt that we will still have the look and design in cities and military units 500 years 
 from now that we have today. So, that being said, Civ CTP kicks all other Civ games in the a** 
 by letting you research up to 1,000 years in the future, building space and sea colonies, fusion 
 tanks, star fighters, plasmaticas, leviathans, plasma destroyers and so on. The future, not just 
 the past, is what it is all about, and that is something Mr. Sid has gotten wrong time and time 
 again with the new and inferior iterations of his series.
  
  So, buy this game if you have the unlikely fortune of coming upon it (it is a rarity, sadly) . Gamespot 
 has no idea what they are talking about in the review. It truly is much better then the crap they 
 are passing off as Civ 4 these days. Yeah, stop in the 'space age'? Ha, thanks but no, I'll aim 
 for the future then come back with a fleet of plasma destroyers and an army of Swarm and destroy 
 your Civ4 civ with its 'high culture' and modern world tanks and marines. BUY THIS GAME 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hallasnicov
Rating: 8.2
Date: Dec 17, 2006 4:24 am PT
Review:  I think this is the best strategy game i ever tried, it has an awesome game-play. There are so 
 many opportunities in this game. You can just keep playing and playing forever, and every time 
 it's totally new.
  I can't understand why they don't use the combat system in the new games, it is so much better. 
 And then the timeline don't stops in 2000 BC but you can continue till 4000 BC, and you can research 
 robot warriors and fusiontanks and all that kind of stuff. Also there ain't any of that culture-shing 
 like in the new ones, which i think gives a lot more coll battlesituations. I'm really happy i 
 bought this game, it's the best buy i ever made....... 2$ :-) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Achilles438
Rating: 8.3
Date: Mar 26, 2006 7:40 pm PT
Review:  This is one of the true reasons that I like the series of civilization. This was the first civilization 
 game that I played, and I was immediately hooked on this game. The strategy is the part that I 
 liked the most, because you had think about a lot of things when are ruling your empire. The tech 
 tree had some very interesting technologies and benefits for the race that researched them. So 
 it was best to pick a race that had an advantage in the science department. I wish they would have 
 had the advisors in this game like they do in the later civilization games, then this game would 
 have been perfect. The cut scenes for the various wonders that you built were very nice to watch. 
 My personal favorites were the tower that led all the way into space and started a space city and 
 the wonder that lets each leader read each others mind. I am disappointed that they took the wonder 
 cut scenes out of the later civilization games and they have not taken the tech tree into space 
 either since this game. But overall I am more impressed with this civilization game than any of 
 the others and I recommend this game to anyone who is a fan of turn based strategy.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: -daniel-
Rating: 9.4
Date: Mar 15, 2006 6:05 pm PT
Review:  Im not a fan of sid meier and i dont like is stategy games. When i first got Civ CTP1 4 or 5 years 
 ago, i didn't know much about it but i guess i can give it a try.
  After a while it's got to me and made me a whole diffrent person. 
  This game really took to 
 leader inside me and now everything i see i want to conquer and rule.
  
  This game can make you go on over and over again, turn and another turn until you will fall a sleep 
 infront of the computer or will need a medicel attention.
  
  I recomend this game or CIV2 better, to every one who feel like conquer the world and out side 
 of him.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: mentat76
Rating: 7.3
Date: Dec 29, 2005 10:47 am PT
Review:  It is a fresh meat to the civilization universe. Its just ok to play, and much close to the sid 
 meiers civ, however, there are 2 major differences, one is the Public Works is stock piled, and 
 spent on improvements instantly, (not fulfilled by settlers unit) and the other, the most important 
 one is the battling system. 
  
  This games full value is on that. You create armies. 9 units most, Ranged and Front line units 
 matter here. The game has its own deployment logic according to the units you have chosen for the 
 army group. Whenever a battle occurs, a battle screen pops up and you can watch the performance 
 of the units in your army group. That is the most beautiful aspect of this game compared to those 
 sid meier's civilization series.
  
  Of course some might find a lot of things strange than they got used to especially Wonders of the 
 world etc. And resource handling is better in sid meiers civilization series. But the battle system 
 here is the definitely the way i want it to be. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: excaliburblade
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 11, 2005 7:56 am PT
Review:  I've almost always had Civilization and I never got Civilization II, but I did get this game. The 
 difference between Call to Power and Civilization is a tremendous difference. The graphics have 
 improved greatly, the game play is more in-depth, the unit variety has been increased greatly and 
 the A. I is more interactive. Sound has been added to the units when they move as well as a optional 
 cheat mode which allows you to equipped yourself with weapons from any time period, but at the 
 sacrifice of not being able to receive a high score. 
  Some users will not care about high scores, but I look at it as a challenge. The game is very challenging 
 towards the end if you play against the maximum number of Civilizations. If you cannot stay in 
 the technological lead, you will find yourself struggling for survival. 
  As you progress in technology you will be able to unlock the technology of building both in Outer 
 Space and Under the Sea (in addition to building on land) . 
  I've seen the screen shots for the game play for Civilization IV and they seem to have taken this 
 gameplay engine and refined it, it appears that Call to Power was the forerunner of this new gameplay 
 engine. For anyone who likes Civilization, Call to Power is a great game to own for any true fan. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: afratnikov
Rating: 3.4
Date: Dec 3, 2004 10:48 am PT
Review:  I was waiting for Civilization III to come out so, being a fan of Civilization II, I got this game 
 to pass the time -- it ended up being a big mistake. It is probably not as bad a game as i rated 
 it: You can build cities, build soldiers, improve city tiles and so on... but it just very gets 
 boring toward the end-game. It attempt to do too much (3 levels: space, earth, and sea) and yet 
 as a whole, it is not as deep as Civ II. I'm comparing Call to Power with Civ II because that is 
 the game it rips off... and it still isn't better. There is no comparing it to Civilization III 
 -- Civ III is better, period. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
