-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Civilization III: Conquests
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/strategy/civ3conquests/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Nov 18, 2003
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8.5
Critic Score: 8.5, 18 Review (s)
User Score: 8.9, 1,310 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Atari
Developer: Firaxis Games
Genre: Historic Turn-Based...
Date:     Nov 4, 2003 &raquo;  
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Between its entertaining and engaging scenarios, the improvements and enhancements to the regular 
 epic game, and the functional multiplayer, it's an excellent expansion pack. 

  It's almost hard to believe that Civilization III is already two years old. When it debuted in 
 2001, the third game in what's arguably the greatest strategy series of all time for the most part 
 lived up to fans' high expectations. However, the franchise stumbled badly with the subsequent 
 expansion pack, Civilization III: Play the World, because its biggest and most anticipated feature, 
 a multiplayer component, was broken, bug-ridden, and virtually unplayable out of the box. A slow 
 succession of patches over the past year addressed most of the problems, though the damage was 
 done and Play the World remains a forgettable afterthought in the otherwise glorious annals of 
 Civ. You've got to hand it to Firaxis, though, because the company took its lumps, went back to 
 the drawing board, and came up with Civilization III: Conquests, a great expansion pack that reinvigorates 
 a gaming classic while finally delivering on the multiplayer promised long ago.  

          Since it can devastate your population and units, the Black Death plays an important role 
 during the Middle Ages scenario.     

  Conquests derives its name from the fact that the centerpieces of this expansion are nine meticulously 
 crafted scenarios built around important moments in history, from the dawn of civilization in Mesopotamia 
 all the way up to the Pacific theater of operations in World War II. In essence, the designers 
 chopped up the epic game, which takes you from the Stone Age to Alpha Centauri, into nine distinct 
 eras, then expanded upon them so we get nine mini-Civilization games that aren't so "mini" at all. 

  The designers did a great job of selecting scenarios that present distinctly different challenges 
 and approaches and that also inject some much-needed diversification in the strategy genre. There 
 are the obligatory European-based scenarios, but there's also an engaging Mesoamerican campaign, 
 as well as a challenging Age of Discovery scenario set in the New World that, in a nice twist, 
 also lets you play as the indigenous civilizations trying to stave off European colonization. Some 
 scenarios, like the Japanese-based Sengoku campaign, will feel familiar because you have to build 
 an empire from scratch. Others, like Napoleonic Europe, begin with all the major players having 
 already been established and the map fully revealed, so instead of empire building, it's all about 
 making (and breaking) alliances and engaging in grand military campaigns. Since each scenario has 
 specific victory goals and turn limits, they force you to play a much more aggressive game than 
 you might normally play in a regular Civ game.  

          Turn captured units into human sacrifice to boost your culture points.     

  Each scenario 
 packs an impressive amount of historical detail, along with a clever tailoring of the rules, technology 
 trees, units, and artwork. For example, during the Mesoamerican campaign you'll battle it out as 
 the Inca, Aztecs, or Mayans for control of Central and South America. Since ritual human sacrifice 
 was a critical part of those societies, your warriors can capture units in battle, and you can 
 sacrifice those units at one of your cities to boost your culture points and expand your empire's 
 boundaries and influence! And since these civilizations thrived in the jungles and mountains, the 
 rules have been rewritten to allow you to build cities on mountaintops, like the legendary lost 
 cities of South America, as well as treat jungle squares as grassland in terms of productivity. 
 It's a treat when you realize that, for once, jungles are your friend instead of a tedious obstacle. 
 The tech tree has also been reworked and features numerous Mesoamerican-specific technologies, 
 and there are a whole slew of strategic and luxury resources associated with South America that 
 you must seize if your empire is to thrive, including exotic birds, tobacco, and even llamas! The 
 level of detail is so amazing, and the material is so new and fresh, that you'll often find yourself 
 actually reading the entries in the Civolopedia to learn more about these ancient societies.   
   

  In addition to featuring new scenarios, Conquests offers an overhauled version of the regular epic 
 campaign. It's hard to believe that Civilization could get any better, but it has. There are, of 
 course, the requisite number of new civilizations, new technologies, and new Wonders of the World 
 to build (many of which were lifted from the scenarios) , but there are literally dozens of other 
 enhancements and improvements. On top of that, Firaxis took some of the knowledge gleaned from 
 the millions of collective hours of Civ III that have been played and has rebalanced the game, 
 tweaking many of the existing technologies and government types, as well as subtly reworking the 
 technology tree. The artificial intelligence has also been improved with the addition of two new 
 difficulty levels to challenge the most ruthless Civ pros, but even on the lesser difficulty levels, 
 the AI seems to play a bit smarter.  

          The English try an invasion of Napoleon's fortress in Europe while the Royal Navy stands 
 by.     

  For those looking for a human opponent, the long and controversial saga of Civilization III multiplayer 
 has finally come to an end. To recap: Multiplayer was originally promised as part of the original 
 game but was removed at the last moment. It then debuted as a broken component in the Play the 
 World expansion (which is included with Conquests, so you don't need to buy it separately) . Well, 
 it took two years, but multiplayer is now playable in a reliable manner... sort of. We did have 
 a few problems, as multiplayer kept crashing on one machine, but once it was up and running, it 
 stayed up and running. That is, until all the other players took off early, which is why we're 
 not convinced that multiplayer Civilization is all that it's made out to be. To enjoy multiplayer 
 Civ, you need a reliable group willing to invest the amount of time required. Even with simultaneous 
 movement turned on, it's a slow-paced game, and there's nothing more frustrating than playing online, 
 only to watch your opponents ditch in the middle of the game.  

  Civilization was never known for cutting-edge graphics, but we loved the artistic style and design 
 of Civ III when it arrived. Conquests doesn't feature any graphical improvements, and the game 
 looks exactly like it did two years ago. We still like the parchment-like look and feel of the 
 game, though we wish we could have the ability to run it in resolutions other than 1024x768. Conquests 
 includes some new sound effects and musical tracks that add a nice level of ambiance, especially 
 since each scenario has its own appropriate theme.  

  Aside from the aforementioned crash we experienced with multiplayer, Conquests was stable and relatively 
 bug-free, although we did catch some glaring grammatical errors as well as a bug in the tax system, 
 which caused us to accumulate gold even when we were supposed to be hemorrhaging it. But given 
 Firaxis' two-year history of support for Civilization III and Play the World, we feel comfortable 
 that these problems should get patched relatively quickly.  

          Victory in multiplayer comes easy when everyone else ditches the game.     

  If you 
 liked Civ III, you need to forget all about the bad experience Play the World may have given you 
 and go out and buy Conquests. Between its entertaining and engaging scenarios, the improvements 
 and enhancements to the regular epic game, and the functional multiplayer, it's the expansion pack 
 that Play the World should have been, and much, much more. Our only regret is that it took two 
 years for Firaxis to deliver it.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (17 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: gamerhomeroom
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 21, 2008 12:46 pm PT
Review:  Civ 3: Conquest is the best expansion pack of Civ 3, witch is pretty easy because all PTW does 
 is give you map editor and online. I think I could survive if there wasn't Civ 3 (The original) , 
 I could survive on the Conquests alone. Here are my favorite conquests from most to least (Most 
 conquests seems really, really boring, but if you play it long enough most of them will get fun) .
 
  
  1. Napoleonic Europe
  2. Mesopotamia
  3. Rise of Rome
  4. Whatever the name was for the Samurai one
  5. WWII in the Pacific
  6. Age of Discovery
 
  7. Middle Ages
  8. Fall of Rome
  
  Napoleonic Europe is very addicting, Mesopotamia is also addicting when you get a large empire. 
 Rise of Rome is addicting if you get a very large empire. The Samurai on is addicting if you can 
 get an even larger empire, and win a war or two. WWII in the Pacific is hard, but if you can over 
 come difficulty it's very fun. Age of Discovery is probably the hardest one to stay with. It takes 
 along time and determination to make this one fun. Same thing with middle ages. Fall of Rome sucks. 
 The Roman Empire has legionaries and are far more advanced than you.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: sc_ajk29
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 21, 2008 10:01 am PT
Review:  Civilization III: Conquests is the second expansion pack for one of the best TBS games around: 
 Civilization III. It greatly improves the game, much more than the mediocre previous expansion, 
 Play The World.
  
  I welcome many of the additions to the series. Conquests adds many new cool units, buildings, wonders, 
 and civilizations to the game. It also improves Civ III in many other ways, such as creating upgrade 
 paths for units that were lacking them (swordsman, etc.) . It also adds several missing music tracks 
 to the game, such as the Mid-East and European Modern Era music.
  
  Unfortunately, however, not everything new in Conquests is good. The biggest of these is the technology 
 change for trading of communications and world maps between civs. Now, instead of being able to 
 trade these wonderful items early on in the game, you have to wait until very late in the game. 
 What the heck was Firaxis thinking??? Now the ancient era is so boring. Also, there is still one 
 music track that is missing: the Industrial Era music for American civilizations.
  
  Regardless, the pros of this expansion outweigh its cons. It is definitely worth getting, especially 
 if you are a big fan of Civ III.
  
  Gameplay: 9
  Graphics: 9
  Sound: 9
  Value: 10
  Tilt: 8
  
  Overall: 9.0\10 (superb) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JudaMarrTL
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jun 28, 2007 8:37 am PT
Review:  Il be reviewing the entire Civ3 Complete game instead of the Conquests expansion.
  
  Sid has come a long way. well sure. Civ4 is out, but my computer is not what gaming is all about. 
 im stuck with 512 MB Ram. so... sorry. i may not be able to sample Civ4. GAMEPLAY Anyway. rules 
 are the same. Some minor changes. 31 civilizations. Units up the wazoo. The scenarios make a great 
 addition. But what really increases the hype is the editor. Add and create maps, units, rules, 
 techs, resources without limit. which gives gameplay a 10.
  
  GRAPHICS Up to date. great but not quite.
  
  SOUND Grunts from units will get repetitive and 
 same goes for the music. but you can eventually add new music with experiance
  
  Overall. Yes Sid fans. Obvious choice. although your all playin Civ 4 by now. but people with the 
 weaker machines. feel free to get it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Technotrout
Rating: 9.9
Date: Nov 5, 2006 8:50 am PT
Review:  In my humble opinion, with the conquests expansion pack Civ has so far peeked and has not been 
 better since. This is truly a legendary add on and should be an absolut must for all civ fans!!!
 
  The amount of extra features, civilizations, wonders, improvements and possibilities are staggering. 
 It just brings sooooooo much more to the version 3 platform, that it is well worth the money.
 
  And on top of the extra cascade of features, Conquests also fixes bugs and is in itself a very, 
 very stable game. Much more so than Civ4 and Civ4: Warlords, which does exactly the opposite of 
 Conquests by putting focus on graphics at the cost of gameplay. Conquests is so fantastic because 
 it really puts gameplay first and still delivers good graphics, nice sound, great value and fantastic 
 tilt. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CajunExplosion316
Rating: 8.6
Date: Aug 19, 2006 9:54 am PT
Review:  Gameplay - The Gameplay leaves nothing more to be desired. A vast majority of empires to pick from, 
 and the ability to change history. Also the game allows for a majority of upgrades in technology, 
 buildings, and units that can be built based on how advance your Civilization is and the time period. 
 Only thing I don't get is how a guy with a spear can bring down a tank. Too bad it's the same still..... 
 (8)
  
  Graphics - No upgrades from the original (8)
  
  Sound - Some New sounds for new units (8)
  
  Value - Of course, more empires means more play-time 
 (8)
  
  Tilt- It has Spain!!!!! (10) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: curtizio
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jul 12, 2006 8:20 am PT
Review:  Conquests expands the already highly acclaimed Civilization III with seven new civilizations, Trial 
 Council and Imperialism governments, and tons of additional victory conditions, leaders, special 
 units, disasters, and Wonders.
  
  The "Conquests" are genius; tons of new stuff to play with; much-improved early game; great editor.
 
  
  On the strength of a franchise, Civilization III sold millions of copies. The masses purchased 
 and were, for the most part, underwhelmed. It was obviously still Civilization and it looked better 
 than the fans could have hoped, but it felt a little empty. Civ III was a good game, but the fans 
 expected more. The first expansion, Play the World, was released to scathing reviews from critics 
 and players alike, in spite of the introduction of multi-player. 
  
  Now comes Conquests, one of the better expansions that the Civ series has ever seen. A lot of what 
 comes in the box is, in fact, stuff that was added at the Play the World stage. But much of it 
 is new, improved and interesting. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: grasu
Rating: 7.1
Date: Mar 2, 2006 10:22 am PT
Review:  Lets get something straight: Civ 3: Conquests is a meatier expansion than the content-deficient 
 Play the World but it still fails to fix some problems that will make you bang your head against 
 your monitor in frustration.
  
  With that being said, assuming you enjoyed Civ 3 you will love this expansion. If you didn't, then 
 start reading my review of FF7, if you really have nothing better to do, since this game really 
 has nothing that new or innovative to make you change your mind.
  
  Graphics: 4/10
  
  After some 2 years on the market, a game starts to look outdated. Things get even worse when that 
 game looked outdated to begin with. Unfortunately this is the case for Civ 3 and its expansion 
 packs.
  
  With the exception of a few new animations and a bunch of units this expansion pack really offers 
 utterly nothing new in graphical terms. Hell, it actually REMOVES some things that were found in 
 the last expansion pack, like the user-created graphical packs. And really, they could've at least 
 thrown in a higher resolution or an updated tileset but this is not the case here.
  
  Sound: 5/10
  
  I could easily copy and paste the paragraph on graphics in this section and 
 few would actually notice the difference. Firaxis didn't do A THING with the sound effects and 
 music in Conquests, and that's not fine at all to be quite honest. The Civ series has some of the 
 most annoying "tunes", in the early ages that I can think of. Endlessly looping drum beats and 
 tribal "orgasms" are not my idea of music.
  
  To be fair however, they did add new sounds and music for the scenarios but since they hardly represent 
 the focus of this game that can hardly be considered a major improvement.
  
  Gameplay: 5/10
  
  Conquests doesn't do much for Civ 3's gameplay but what it does is pretty 
 much in the "more" category, rather than "better" or "fix" categories.
  
  Let's start with the "more" part. Conquests features a lot of great new things that you might never 
 be able to live without. There are new units, ranging from a prehistoric boat call the Curragh 
 to an ultra-modern infantry unit called TOW Infantry which should (technically speaking) do wonders 
 with tanks. From my playing experience however, I've come to one conclusion: The units are useless. 
 The Curragh can't carry ANYTHING and suffers from most of the early ship problems (i. e. little 
 movement, it sinks faster than a fat man in a bottomless lake) , as for the TOW Infantry... well, 
 it just straight up blows. If it's caught in a crossfire with anything but a tank it will get blown 
 to bits. Oh, let's not even begin to mention the new flak and Mobile SAM units since they drive 
 me nuts. The AI seems to build these EXCLUSIVELY since they become available, meaning that you'll 
 have to change build orders several dozen times a turn just to stop the AI from building this junk.
 
  
  Conquests' other, much more useful units are actually part of wonders. The Crusader and Ancient 
 Cavalry are units produced by two wonders (the Knights Templar and the Statue of Zeus, respectively) 
 and are not only free but they are spawned often enough to be very useful in their respective periods.
 
  
  And speaking of wonders, Conquests features TONS of them. The much sought after "7 Wonders of the 
 Ancient World" appear, for the first time ever, in a Civ 3 game. And they're all pretty damn good. 
 In addition you get the Knight's Templar which is there for the sole reason to pump out burly looking 
 crusaders.
  
  Of course, besides wonders and units you get a slew of things that we've all come to expect from 
 a Civ expansion. 7 new nations join the game (including more North/South American tribes) ; there 
 are 2 new traits that nations can now have (seafaring and agricultural) which actually makes more 
 difference than you might think, and a few other negligible additions.
  
  There are also 2 new government types: Feudal Monarchy (which does utterly nothing) and Fascism. 
 Fascism might become your best friend or your worst enemy since it might be the most unbalanced 
 governmental system since Fanaticism in Civ 2. You get a huge number of supported units, negligible 
 corruption and 200% worker efficiency. In other words, if youre going for a conquest or domination 
 victory your new best friend has just arrived. Hell, in fact, whatever youre doing, this government 
 is IDEAL for it. Its so grossly powerful that theres really no reason to use Democracy anymore, 
 unless you think of this as exploiting the game.
  
  The real draw of the expansion pack is the Conquests Scenarios. They're great! They make for quick 
 games that can be finished in less than 3 hours and provide you with something other than the standard 
 sandbox mode which might take days to complete. Some of these scenarios also feature their own 
 soundtracks, resources, units and inventions giving you a wealth of options and approaches to Civ 
 3 without requiring you to even go out and download them. Assuming you do decide to go out and 
 download additional scenarios or mods for your game youll be pleased to know that Conquests has 
 made their implementation much easier, as now it doesn't force you to limit yourself to one mod. 
 Most mods can now be activated at your choosing from the "Civ-Content" menu, which is a great feature 
 to say the least.
  
  This all sounds great, but it's not quite as it seems. Conquests doesn't make so basic, DESPERATE, 
 changes that are needed to make Civ 3 a perfect game and thats where problems really begin to 
 surface.
  
  For beginners, spearmen can STILL beat tanks. It doesn't happen often to actually get "beaten" 
 by a spearman but it still remains a mystery to me how exactly the hell an ancient age pointy stick 
 can decimate my aluminum/steel-alloy-tank.
  
  Furthermore, the game's AI still cheats like there's no tomorrow. And by this I don't mean the 
 ungodly advantages they get on higher difficulty levels but instances when my army of medieval 
 infantry will attack a town guarded by a musketman and will get decimated while the computer can 
 go ahead and obliterate me with an archer in the exact same conditions. Really, Conquests doesnt 
 give a rats ass about the quality of your troops, its only quantity that matters since you can 
 overflow a city with warriors until you eliminate all resistance in it.
  
  Other favorite pet-peeves of mine also reappear here in the form of horrendous starting locations 
 or unbalanced races which pretty much either force you to restart (if you begin on an island the 
 size of your fist you're guaranteed a hard anal rape by the computer) or to battle through overwhelming 
 odds before even making some progress. Oh, and theres also the so called intelligence of your 
 cities. Your cities will pump out units, most of them useless, unless they get babysitted by you. 
 Using the governors is just about AS useless as theyll just be harder to disable when theyll 
 start building Flaks with no purpose whatsoever if for no other reason than that youre the only 
 guy who has ****ing FLIGHT! (NOTE: This really pisses me off) .
  
  Multiplayer: 4/10
  
  It says it improves things on the box, but really, Conquests does NOTHING for multiplayer. It's 
 not laggy, but who cares? You can't find PEOPLE who will stay with you though a 20 hour game so 
 the whole idea of multiplayer Civilization still applies only to small groups of people interested 
 in Civ 3 and not to the mainstream gaming public in any way.
  
  Overall: 7/10
  
  Despite the score, Conquests is not quite a decent expansion pack... but I must confess I have 
 a soft spot for Civ 3 and like most of you who'll be reading this review, I still enjoy this game. 
 It gives you more and that's fine by my standards... at least until Civ 4 ships. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cubsfan6506
Rating: 8.4
Date: Feb 24, 2006 3:12 pm PT
Review:  A truly epic game from the time you start to the time you start to the time you finish every campaign 
 mission. THe only reason i didnt score it higher was because the graphics suck, and the sounds 
 not that great either. It takes a while to learn how to play this game though. My suggestion is 
 to play through a few freeplays before starting on the campaigns. WIth 31 civilizations and 9 campaign 
 missinon ranging from colonaztion to napolianic Eruope to fuedal Japan, and youll never stop playing 
 this highly addictive masterpiece. The best scenario is probaly the age of discovery. Pick it up 
 and youll never set it down.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: worshyr
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 15, 2006 2:22 pm PT
Review:  Civilization 3 is not for those who do not have patience. You will literally play through the entirety 
 of human history up until now. Which sometimes feels like ten to twenty thousand years.
  
  You can pick a variety of different cultures to play as. Including the Americans, Germans, Romans, 
 Egyptians and the often crushed and easily conquered Zulu. The game itself is very slow, You have 
 to tend to your young civilization at every turn from tending to crops and irrigation channels, 
 to fighting off random barbarian invaders. You can also send out units to colonize far distant 
 locations, and by distant I mean 2 inches away. If you are lucky your settler will reach his destination 
 in a few hundred years.
  Finding mineral deposits and vast amounts of natural resources in the game will also guarantee 
 a strong empire. As your civilization becomes stronger and more advanced you can actually build 
 some of the great wonders of the world, such as the pyramids or the floating gardens of babylon.
 
  
  The combat of civilization 3 is slow and not very exciting, As your civilization evolves so does 
 the weapons of war you possess. Sometimes as the centuries pass you forget about units that you 
 sent to far flung territories all over the world. For instance When I was being invaded by a Russo-American 
 alliance, all I had for ground units were a mix of barbarians and colonial riflemen. The Americans 
 and Russians had tanks, so yea I got killed, big time. They went down fighting, It was kinda funny 
 though, seeing a barbarin pummel a tank uselessly with his axe was kinda of poetic in a way. I 
 only had an advanced air force and navy for my military, but don't bother getting nuclear weapons 
 after learing atomic fission. I dropped three nukes on a russian city and killed seven people, 
 very disappointing. However the barbarians (who at this time were probably 50,000 years old) could 
 be turned into "Raging Nukes" which was hilarious. They would just explode into a crappy mushroom 
 cloud and irradiate the whole area and maybe if you were lucky kill a goat.
  
  If you decide to make a custom game you can create your own map. My friend created one called the 
 *ahem* Jew Map. By which he gave himself all of the mineral wealth and natural resources, whilst 
 he gave his enemies poisoned watering holes. Hilarious but cruel muahahaha
  
  All and all it was a fun game, I would suggest buying it if you have the time. On a final note 
 caveman Abraham Lincoln looks hilarious wearing a bearskin top hat. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: regulesblade
Rating: 8.1
Date: Feb 8, 2006 6:46 am PT
Review:  Conquests is the expansion pack to Civilizations III and it makes up for the original game by introducing 
 a new and much stronger multiplerplayer system that the original game lacked. With this new much 
 better multiplayer system players can now easily challenge other players from across the world. 
 Matches are much easier to set up and there are many other factors that may influence these online 
 games. Besides that the game introduces many brand new battle scenario's that are conquests straight 
 out of the history books which goes in line with the game overall. The main campaign has also been 
 edited to a certain extent to bring in new playability and to keep players from growing board. 
 I would definately say that this is an expansion that is worth paying the full price to purchase. 
 Anyone who has civilizations III should get this as an add on to their original game because its 
 just an essential. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MasterMarcus
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 9, 2005 6:35 pm PT
Review:  Conquests is a monumental expansion unveiling thoughtfully crafted scenarios and general tweaks 
 upgrading the already reckoned Civilization III legacy, while representing what should have really 
 been the first add-on ( Play The World ) . It conveniently enriches a legendary reference in the 
 terrestrial turn-based empire building sub-genre. Not only the official scenarios are a welcomed 
 addition with specific units ( like two favorites, Sengoku and Rise of Rome ) , but some undocumented 
 features can be found too, mainly concerning various AI upgrades in the main game rendering it 
 as one of the best in the strategy era, though some may whine about the AI cheats on upper difficulty 
 levels.
  
  Firaxis has done a tremendous job at implementing repeatedly all the little gameplay touches enhancing 
 both the SP features, scenarios, and MP. However, Civ III Conquests fully patched is still victim 
 of the TBS syndrome - like a majority of available empire building games - , the loose side effect 
 of tedious micromanagement in the late game = ''one hour turn''. Can be contained to 20 minutes 
 in modern times......... if you're twitchy. Nonetheless, overall the Civ gameplay received a compelling 
 polishing evidently acclaimed by the fans, even without the graphical gimmicks we may have anticipated.
 
  
  The graphics still disgorge an elegant feeling, this is a decent 2D territorial set-up with beautiful 
 little units not really surpassed by the direct competition. Though they are a bit dated, even 
 for the genre, it would be unfair to compare with the new Total war engine, Rome; strangely even 
 after long sessions with the latter, it's not unpleasant at all to rediscover the civ experience 
 outright. Again, the small units are beautifully rendered.
  
  We can hear a couple of additional tunes embedded within the original audio coding, subtly fitted, 
 yet again as time pass by, the player should be forced to disable the feature before being affected 
 by incessant tracks getting on its nerves over longer sessions. A professional yet conventional 
 score, like it was in the original game released in 2001.
  
  Multiplayer has been largely upgraded, not to mention the most annoying glitches fixed, but in 
 the end a grand TBS of this scale remains an offline affair not really destined to online gaming 
 unlike most RTSs.
  
  There may be only nine official scenarios, yet surprisingly they display an extreme amount of polish 
 from the Mesopotamian era through WWII in the Pacific, showcasing an adequate number of new units: 
 mesoamerican unique traits from the main game ported in the short yet brutal scenario ( Javelin 
 thrower rules ) ; the Grand Battery ( nice dual here ) & some napoleonic infantry; and various samurai 
 units just to name those among others. Though not as flashy and hyped like was the more recent 
 Rome: Total War, Conquests remains the ultimate Civ III expansion enough to enrapture fans of the 
 series until the advent of the fourth installment. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: blackjack4124
Rating: 8.4
Date: Nov 11, 2004 12:03 pm PT
Review:  Civ 3. Greatest turn based strategy game ever. Period.
  
  Conquests just adds to the game, and fixes the bugs that were present in the original civ III and 
 PTW.
  
  Gameplay: Very accomplished. Only loses a ten because I couldn't play multiplayer in one sitting, 
 it's just too long.
  
  Graphics: Functional, but never a huge strongpoint of strategy games. A high 7, but a seven none 
 the less.
  
  Sound: Again, strategy games aren't huge on this. High 7's
  
  Value: The only reason you won't play this, is because you don't have time to. This will last as 
 long as you want it to.
  
  Learning Curve: You never stop learning. Good or bad, it's your choice.
  
  Tilt: I give this 
 an eight because 7's were harsh for graphics and sound. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dryden555
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 27, 2004 2:49 pm PT
Review:  I've been playing Civ. since the first game, and always enjoyed the small improvements (mostly 
 graphical) with each sequel. But, really, it is time to re-think the endlessly long later part 
 of any Civilization game. Even with improved auto-settlers and way-points for your troops, it all 
 takes far too long once you have about 20 cities. In larger wars, it can be micro-mangement over-kill 
 and I actually like these types of games.
  
  Smaller maps are one option but this isn't much of a solution for a game about warring civilizations.
 
  
  Some game comapny needs to revamp the core ideas of Civilization so that it is more fast-paced 
 in the later parts of the game, but still turn-based and strategic. The real-time mouse-clicking 
 combat of "Rise of Nations" left me cold. Real-time is not the solution.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gumpo
Rating: 8.7
Date: Aug 30, 2004 5:01 pm PT
Review:  Civilization games have always been great turn based strategy experiences, No matter which itteration, 
 Civilization games have stood the test of time, just like they ask you to do.
  
  We had to wait almost a decade for Civilizaiton 3, if you dont include the Call to Power games, 
 and it was worth it - Sid popped out another excellently unrivaled strategy game.
  
  Honestly, it does take a good while to learn the gameplay, especially if you havnt played an eariler 
 Civ game, but once you get the hang of it - and you can tolerate the slow pace - it begins to really 
 shine.
  
  Civ 3 is one of those games where you say, "just 5 more minutes" and the next time you look at 
 your watch several hours have gone by. 
  
  Civ 3 is one of those games with lots of micromanagement. You have to develop cities and expand 
 your culture influence, while keeping people happy. This means building special buildings within 
 your cities, building more cities, making colonies to import fine wines and other resources, and 
 occasionally changing the jobs of the people in the towns. Along with that, you also need to keep 
 developing new technologies, armies, and diplomatic arangements with other nations. Obviously, 
 this can take up a lot of time and energy, but somehow its fun too. The micromanagement also doesnt 
 seem to be too deep that it agrivates you as in some games. Your really only given a few slider 
 bars to deal with, and maybe a dozen or so indicators and toggle type decisions that are necessary 
 to play the game.
  
  The diplomacy sometimes seems a little buggy to me, but then again it might be because its trying 
 to be realistic. What i mean, is they seem to switch sides in a hearbeat; for instance, you and 
 russia have been trading resources and technologies for most of he game, and you are attacked by 
 germany. suddenly, russia teams up with germany and begins to attack you. You would think this 
 would be much less likely, given the good terms you were on, but thats not so in this game. Luckily, 
 that is the only problem i could think of.
  
  I could probably go on for hours about how great the game is, but i wont bore you - If you dont 
 have it, go get it. And check out the mod community if you do have it, they have several excellent 
 mods like "Double Your Pleasure" that expand the game by leaps and bounds. (and considering how 
 large of a game Civ 3 is to begin with, thats incredible)
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: evarmy98x
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 3, 2004 7:35 pm PT
Review:  My first experience with Civ 3 was through Conquests. All in all this is a great title and an acceptable 
 evolution of earlier Civilization games. There are many civilizations to choose from and the unique 
 units (of which each civ gets one) and civilization traits help to distinguish one from another. 
 The inclusion of many more civs in Conquests is a very welcome addition. The gameplay is true to 
 the series' long history. You build a great civilization from the ground up on an isometricly viewed 
 world map. A few of the classic problems persist however, so don't be surprised if some lucky pikemen 
 manage to defeat modern-era infantry on occasion. It seems the spearmen will always have that dasdardly 
 trump card to play against tanks and battleships. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BigBaderXIII
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jun 10, 2004 12:43 am PT
Review:  Civilization III: conquest is a great add-on for the game. It fixes most problems, largely on how 
 much micromanaging you had to do. It adds new civilizations and types of civilizations such as 
 industrial. The game play seems to be better as there is a new wide variety of bonus resources 
 such as tobacco. The units available are also much better and cultural specific. Since there are 
 more civilizations like the Celts, the game gets to be more varied, as some civs will be more warlike, 
 or even more resistant to propaganda. All in all the game is pretty good. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nahorner9
Rating: 9.4
Date: May 5, 2004 4:07 pm PT
Review:  I've had Civ3 for a while and recently I picked up Conquests. What appealed to me initially was 
 not the multiplayer aspect of the game but rather the actual conquests part. NOTE: Conquests also 
 includes the other Civ3 expansion pack, Play the World, whichs adds multiplayer capabilities to 
 Civ3. I have not played Play the World, so this review includes some of the additions that PTW 
 made. Here's some of excellent highlights of the game that I found.
  
  -- New civs, technologies, units, ect. This is always a good thing for any game. The new civs really 
 come into play when you start playing the conquests portion of the game. The technologies and units 
 give the game a slightly different feel, which encourages replayability.
  -- Added in-game features. By these I mean little additions to made to make the game move along 
 smoother. One feature I found extremely beneficial is the ability to move multiple units as one. 
 This speeds up the flow of the game and it no longer seems tedious to move your army across the 
 globe to defeat the terrible Roman threat.
  -- The conquests. These are best part of the game. The conquests put you as different countries 
 at different points in time. The tech tree is completely altered and the units are modified to 
 fit the country. For example, in the Rise of Rome conquest, you have Citizens (like Settlers) , 
 Legionaries (sort of a cross between swordsmen and workers) , and Garrisons (a modified spear/pikeman) . 
 This really makes the conquests unique and gives more many extra hours of replayability.
  
  All-in-all, this game is an excellent choice for someone who wants to further enjoy Civ3. I recommend 
 this expansion pack to any current owner of Civ3. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
