-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Claw
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/action/claw/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Nov 10, 1997
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7.7
Critic Score: 7.7, 8.2 Review (s)
User Score: 8.2, 267 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Monolith Productions
Developer: Takarajimasha
Genre: Action
Date:     Sep 30, 1997

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Claw is easily the finest modern side scroller available for the PC. 

 When a new gaming platform is introduced to the public, the first title customarily released for 
 it is, fittingly, a platform game. The SNES had Mario. The Genesis had Sonic. The side-scrolling 
 shooter has long been a favorite genre of video gamers around the world for many reasons. The playability 
 in such games is usually quite well rounded. They're almost always instant "kid hits" and perhaps 
 most importantly, the player-character is guaranteed to become a cultural icon. While this has 
 been the case for video game consoles, the same does not hold true for PC games. In fact, believe 
 it or not, there have been only two or three truly successful side-scrolling,  
 platform games made exclusively for the PC. Monolith Productions hopes to add to that number with 
 Claw.  

 Claw follows the adventures of Captain Nathaniel J. Claw, a swashbuckling tabby cat whose life's 
 work has been the defeat of the Cocker Spaniard Armada. (OK, so the premise it a trifle cutesy, 
 but rest assured, that's where its annoyances end.) As the animated intro scene opens, we find 
 Claw and his band of fearless felines engaged in mortal combat with the Spaniards. The cats are 
 defeated and Claw is thrown into a dark dungeon to await his execution. While incarcerated, he 
 happens upon a loose stone in the wall that, when removed, reveals a note written by one of the 
 dungeon's former denizens. The note tells of the legendary Amulet of Nine Lives and a map that 
 will locate it and its nine powerful gems. The note's author implores Claw to take the attached 
 piece of the map and to track down the other pieces, the gems, and the amulet before they are discovered 
 by the evil King's minions. So the adventure begins.  

 The gameplay is, as expected, derivative of every platform game ever released. You run. You jump. 
 You kill bad guys. You get treasure. Never in the history of PC gaming, however, has this tried-and-true 
 style been executed with such polish. The levels are straightforward if anything. There's nothing 
 to confuse you here, but there are quite a few divergent pathways and an abundance of fun tricks 
 of the terrain unique to each level. In the first few, as Claw escapes the dungeon and makes his 
 way through the woods and into a bustling seaside town, you encounter many different types of bad 
 guys as well as ladders, swinging vines, pits lined with spikes, and the obligatory moving and 
 vanishing platforms. Some of the gimmicks in later levels include pools of water with man-eating 
 (or cat-eating, as the case may be) fish, jets of steam to ride, and flowing lava to dodge, just 
 to name a few. The most prominent feature of the levels, though, is the profusion of treasure to 
 be plundered. You can't swing a dead cat (pun intended) without hitting a pile of gold bars, a 
 crown, a chalice, a gilded crucifix, or one of the other forms of loot. The sheer amount of gold 
 in this game puts the old standard, Montezuma's Revenge, to shame.   

 Claw himself also has quite a repertoire of maneuvers to wield. He begins his quest with a pirate's 
 sword, a loaded musket, a few sticks of dynamite, and a couple uses of his Magic Claw power. These 
 weapons can be replenished along the way, and his sword can be upgraded for short periods of time 
 to shoot fire, ice, and lightening bolts. There are also caches of catnip (what else?) hidden throughout 
 the levels which enable Claw to dispatch his enemies faster and jump much higher. In addition to 
 his abilities to shoot his enemies, skewer them, Magic Claw them, and drop dynamite on them, Claw 
 can throw objects or even other enemies at them. Believe me, all of these tactics are necessary. 
 It's amazing how ingenious one need be to kill some of the game's forty different bad guys.  

 
 As you progress through the game's 14 levels, the enemies as well as the puzzles and traps become 
 increasingly difficult, and the difficulty curve is practically flawless. The first couple levels 
 will take an average player anywhere from ten to twenty minutes to complete, including battling 
 the boss. Towards the end of Claw's journey, though, expect to spend close to an hour trying and 
 retrying the puzzles in each level. This can become a bit frustrating at times due to the fact 
 that the extra lives are few and far between. Each level, however, does have two waypoints that 
 automatically register when you pass them. Should you perish (and you will) , you return to the 
 last one reached. This way, saving your game is not a concern. As the levels become nearly impossible 
 toward the end, though, dying can mean sacrificing the last twenty minutes of puzzle solving. Fortunately, 
 there is a well-publicized "God code" for the game. Type in MPKFA during play (no doubt a Doom 
 homage) and you've got infinite health, lives, ammo, and magic. Strangely, playing in God mode 
 doesn't take away much of the fun. Sure, you're immune to enemy attacks, but you still have the 
 puzzles to contend with and that's most of the challenge. Of course I, being the consummate gamer, 
 didn't play that way, but...  

 All gameplay aside, though, Claw is aesthetically gorgeous. Each of the quest's many locales is 
 more dazzling than the last. The scenery is a mixture of lush hand-illustrated backgrounds, beautifully 
 rendered play areas, and a depth-lending foreground layer. The sound is better still. The music 
 is straight out of an Errol Flynn movie, the sound effects are dead-on, and the ambient sounds 
 and character banter actually add to the gameplay for a change. The guys at Monolith, as in their 
 last hit, Blood, didn't scrimp on the humor. Some of the baddies, when dispatched, utter fun, suitably 
 piratesque phrases while others are downright comical. ("Hmmm. I seem to have become deceased!" 
 is my favorite.) The whole feel of the game is light and amusing. The first time you head for the 
 fridge to grab a midlevel snack and hear Claw say dryly, "At least bring me back something from 
 the kitchen!" you'll know what I mean.  

 Claw is a game with almost too many things going for it. The levels are brilliant. The gameplay 
 is first-rate. The control (thanks to Microsoft DirectInput) is near perfect. The animated cutscenes 
 are worthy of anything on Saturday mornings. There's even multiplayer support! "What?" you say, 
 "Multiplayer support in a side scroller?!" Yep. Up to 64 players can go at it, either racing through 
 the levels to score the fastest time or trying to gather up the most booty. They've even incorporated 
 Claw Curses, which enable those in multiplayer mode to affect each other detrimentally. It's actually 
 quite fun, if you can find people to play with you. Until support for the multiplayer mode gets 
 into full swing on Engage Games Online (Claw's exclusive multiplayer site) , getting 64 players 
 in a game will be a task similar to getting a bunch of nuns to play tackle football, but it's worth 
 it. So is the game itself, easily the finest modern side scroller available for the PC.    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (8 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: nanu958
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 16, 2008 4:00 am PT
Review:  Captain Claw came to our PCs way back in 1997, but I'm writing this review in 2008.
  This game has grown on me ever since the first time I played it (back around in 2001) when I didn't 
 have a PC at my place.
  
  I've completed this game thrice and bought even the retail copy of this game just to show my gratitude 
 to Monolith for producing a masterpiece like Claw. 
  
  Captain Claw narrates his story through the in-game videos, a story much simple and revolving on 
 the plot of cat-dog fights. Even though the story is quite straight-forward, it has been well-moulded 
 and twisted to suit a game (masterpiece) like Claw. Trust me, you'll find yourself hanging at the 
 edge of your seat everytime you finish one level and are ready to watch the cutscene.
  
  The graphics are great and eye-popping and revolutionary for a game released in the time of the 
 late 90's. The level-design in the game is surely the work of a genius as it ups the challenging 
 part of the game, (like you're on a lever passing through the room full with thorns, and there 
 u go-jumping off the lever-onto the platform-kicking sum dog ass-back swinging through a large 
 chain and back to the lever- All of this in perfect time.)
  Also the levels have been rendered beautifully as u see the sun setting on the dockyards, 2D (yet 
 beautiful) textures of teak you are standing upon. 
  And the best point is this is no modern-day Crysis to slaughter your graphic card, so there's no 
 harm in picking up a copy today.
  
  The background score in the game puts u in the boots of the puss (Captain Claw) . Ambient sounds 
 like crows cawing in towns, horns blowing on the dockyards, and even the gossips of the mermaid 
 make the world of claw come alive.
  Also witty lines murmured by Ct. Claw in the game are sure to make u chuckle.
  
  
  Overall, 
 as I've said before, this game is a classic, a game a true gamer must've played years back. And 
 if u still haven't, it's not too late to get ur copy of Claw today and putting that old computer 
 in the attic to some good use. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: aksoss
Rating: 10
Date: May 26, 2008 11:46 am PT
Review:  Claw is one of the best games I've played, and I've played quite a few. I still play up to 14 hours 
 a day when I'm free. This genre of gaming is quite different from the modern rpg's and rts's and 
 fps's, and Claw is one of the few and easily the best of this category that I've played. 
  
  The best things about Claw is its immersive story, its endearing characters, be they heroes 
 or villains, its addictive gameplay, and its entertaining music.
  
  Admittedly, Claw is a tough game, especially for noobs, but it is very playable. Contrary to what 
 another reviewer ("wicked hard") said, it can be finished without cheats. I've done it, and a friend 
 of mine also has.
  
  I started Claw when I was a kid and I could still play it if I didn't remember every single boss 
 and cutscene that was going to come next. Yeah, Claw is a great game, it'll give you hours and 
 hours of fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: inimagination
Rating: 7.3
Date: Jan 7, 2008 10:03 am PT
Review:  A plataform game between all those realistic ones. Looks like that this game suck, but don't.
 
  A real good game even if i'ts a plataform, it still good.
  The gameplay is easy to learn, and slash and pop guy in the head is just plain fun.
  There isn't 
 too much things to be say about this game, if you play it, all your questions will be answered. 
 Like "how the graphics look like?", well it's a plataform game, so that means that the graphics 
 are 2D. Old-School game, classic! In my opinion.
  And there's animations in this game, well so "Claw" is a new-school-old-school game.
  So, like 
 Borat, I say that this game is "VERY NICE!". 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Devvy01
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 24, 2007 5:58 am PT
Review:  This game so reminds me of the early days of C64, Amigas and the arcade games. Whilst the graphics 
 are not ground breaking, the game and the playability is still better than alot of the mindless 
 violence games produced over the last 5 years.
  Put simply, your mission is to collect as many valuable items as possible to gain the highest score. 
 There are plenty of hidden spot to investigate which are simply found by dropping off a point or 
 gaining a high jump potion to get to somewhere not normally found. You can kick, punch, use your 
 sword or shoot, and you've also got a few extras to get around the levels. Upon playing this for 
 a good couple of hours, it really grew on you to try and get everything on a level. But you won't, 
 you'll only discover more and more as you search around.
  This is a definate for all you platformer players, like rainbow island, bubble bobble, gods, superfrog 
 just to name a few. Give it ago and see for yourself what a 1997 game was to play. Big thumbs up 
 for me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SouthParkFan92
Rating: 9.3
Date: Aug 14, 2007 6:37 am PT
Review:  I had the game Claw since 1998 and only started playing the game in 2000. Claw is a very fun video 
 game. I have not played it in years but I might if I have the time. You are Claw a cat pirate and 
 after getting ambushed by dog pirates and arrested, you find a map which tells you where the nine 
 lives amulet is. So you must go through level after level killing dog pirates, searching for your 
 crew and finding the nine lives amulet. You can use your sword, gun, bombs or your magic claw which 
 wipes out any enemy in your path but you only have five of them. Claw is a very fun game and I recommend 
 you get it if you can find it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: federico06
Rating: 9.6
Date: Apr 28, 2007 3:56 pm PT
Review:  I have got to start saying that for 1997 this game was awesome I remember being a Kid and buying 
 my Motherboard and they gave me as a gift this game :D.
  Just have to say that the mixing between Human-Animal History is something really creative never 
 saw, I started playing this game when I was a kid and enjoying it till now that I am still playing 
 it.
  The Fight between Cats And Dogs as the video sequences will stun you, or would stunned you 10 years 
 ago :P
  Graphics and sound rocks, as almost every game from the 2-D boom, don't know why every company 
 of gaming quit doing that fantastic games of 2 dimensions.
  The last thing I have to say to you is that you have to play this game because you will never more 
 can play such a good game like this. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ToddHagen
Rating: 9.2
Date: Aug 29, 2006 12:02 pm PT
Review:  This game has all that you could want in a 2D scroller. Sound, graphics, story, challenges and 
 visuals are all top notch. I must say that I was very impressed with this game. Very engaging and 
 very good control.
  
  There really is only one downside. I must clarify that I am a platform fan, and in saying so, have 
 probably played about 40 or 50 platform games. The problem here is how incredibly hard and unforgiving 
 this game is.
  
  The difficulty starts out easy enough, but keeps on building, and building and BUILDING. If you 
 read the GS review, they will indicate that there is a cheat to make the game playable - and it's 
 true. Without the GOD cheat, I do not think it is possible to actually finish the game. The requirements 
 to stay alive and in almost constant motion is obviously possible, but I would venture as impossible 
 except for those with cybernetic implants.
  
  Regardless, the game is a must-play for anyone who loves platform games, and is a great deal of 
 fun! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: burninghawk
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jun 14, 2006 6:39 pm PT
Review:  This game takes me way back to when i was still playing my psone. This game came along from a cousin 
 who lent it to me and man, did i have alot of fun.
  
  A game like Claw does not come very often. This side scroller is easily the hardest one ever made. 
 Many obstacles to overcome as well as dodging cannons and leaping over spikes. The boss battles 
 which are well done, prove also to be challenging to any player who's using the keyboard. Alse 
 with thousands of things to collect in the level will have you coming back to each level trying 
 to get every single item, which is nearly impossible. It would have been cool to create a shop 
 for the items you recieved though.
  
  The graphics are like any side scrollers, 2D. But the effects in the game are pretty decent, along 
 with some pretty nice animations to keep the game flowing. There is nothing to complain about the 
 graphics because you'll never be able to look at the screen and see nothing moving.
  
  The sound is masterful. I found the sound effects incredible especially since all the audio effects 
 in the game were created from scratch and not ripped off from movies or something like some other 
 games do. Although sometimes I thought that they could have used more music tracks for the levels, 
 otherwise a great masterpiece!
  
  So the game is cheap, it's an incredibly hard sidescroller with great sound, and a fun experience 
 to go with it. Good luck trying to find it though. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
