-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Cleopatra
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/strategy/cleopatra/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Aug  1, 2000
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7.5
Critic Score: 7.8, 16 Review (s)
User Score: 8.1, 430 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Sierra Entertainment
Developer: BreakAway Games
Genre: Historic City-Building
Date:     Jul 11, 2000
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Cleopatra adds more of just about everything, and makes Impressions' Pharaoh a more complex and 
 interesting game, without disrupting the fine balance of the original. 

 Most expansion packs simply add a few new items and missions and assume that fans of the original 
 game will be content to just play more of the same. With Cleopatra, developer BreakAway Games hasn't 
 taken such an easy route. Cleopatra adds more of just about everything, from imports to monuments, 
 and makes Impressions' Pharaoh a more complex and interesting game, without disrupting the fine 
 balance of the original. The minor problems in Pharaoh haven't been addressed, and one new problem 
 has been added, but it's safe to say that anyone who loved or even liked the original will be entirely 
 content with this weighty addition.   

  As in Pharaoh, Cleopatra's missions are basically variations on a single theme. You must build 
 the infrastructure of a city by ensuring that your residents have food, water, and the luxuries 
 they want. You must provide the food by fishing, hunting, and farming, and then distribute the 
 food to your residents through markets. You must build workshops to make pottery, linen, papyrus, 
 beer, and other important goods, as well as find and supply the needed raw materials. When certain 
 raw materials - goods or foodstuffs - are not available, you must import them from other cities. 
 And you must create goods for export in order to maintain a positive cash flow, especially when 
 your import costs are high.   

  You win a mission by achieving set ratings in certain categories, such as prosperity - the quality 
 of life in your city and your overall wealth; kingdom - how well your city is regarded by others; 
 culture - the amount of civilized niceties available to your people; and also by successfully constructing 
 monuments.   

  Cleopatra makes the whole process a bit more complex by adding two new industries, lamp making 
 and paint making. Lamps are made from pottery and oil, of which the latter can only be imported, 
 while paint making requires henna, which can be farmed. The new industries are essential to the 
 construction of some of the new monuments, the best of which are the tombs. To build royal tombs, 
 you need paint to decorate the walls, and lamps to light the caves where the artisans work. You 
 also need to stock these tombs with luxury items, which makes monument building even more involving. 
   

  The campaigns in Cleopatra follow the basic formula of Pharaoh, but add a few interesting twists 
 and challenges. The first campaign requires that you build the Valley of the Kings by constructing 
 the royal tombs in the cliffs and, as the campaign goes on, that you keep them safe from grave 
 robbers. Cleopatra starts off at approximately the same difficulty at which Pharaoh left off, and 
 quickly gets much harder. Some missions now have time limits, which can make them much more difficult 
 for players who're used to slowly building an infrastructure before tackling the larger mission 
 objectives. While such constraints certainly can be frustrating, they help to break up the occasional 
 monotony that occurs once you've found a city-building pattern that works.   

  The second new campaign in Cleopatra deals with the arrival of new enemies, while the third deals 
 with the reign of Ramses II, and the fourth with that of Cleopatra herself. The first campaign 
 basically acts as a primer to the new elements, while the others require that you use everything 
 at your disposal to stop the near-constant invasion of enemies. The military element of Cleopatra 
 is tougher than in the original, and you'll even have to complete some missions that simply require 
 you to survive an onslaught for a given time.   

  Most of the new challenges in Cleopatra are welcome and serve not only to extend the game, but 
 also to enhance it. Among these challenges are the plagues - problems of epic proportions - that 
 occur when the gods are displeased with you. Rivers of blood, swarms of locusts and frogs, and 
 hailstorms all add to your need to keep any and all of your patron deities as pleased as possible 
 at all times.   

  Cleopatra does include a few unwelcome additions, like creatures that will attack your populace. 
 The scorpions in the first two missions will undoubtedly make you frustrated as they wander your 
 streets and kill your people. You can theoretically take them out with military personnel, as you 
 are advised to do in the game's help file, which would be fine if you could actually recruit military 
 personnel in these missions. Also, there is a strange bug that occurs when building tombs - if 
 you dispatch any of the luxury goods to the tomb before it's completed, all production on the tomb 
 will stop. However, not only will this affect your current game, it will also affect any saved 
 games you have in that mission, requiring you to start over completely.   

  What's more problematic is the fact that one of Pharaoh's more frustrating elements has still not 
 been addressed. Quite simply, your workers are still as dumb as dirt, and they wander the streets 
 as if they were windup toys bouncing around your city. You'll have food and water distributors 
 wandering completely unpopulated areas, while residents are moving out because they're starving 
 and thirsty. You can help reduce this problem through strategic placement of markets and the use 
 of roadblocks, but it would have been nice if these key elements had some sort of artificial intelligence 
 that would have sent them where they were needed, within a limited range.   

  But this problem is endemic to Pharaoh (and the Caesar games before it) , and Cleopatra can't be 
 entirely faulted for not addressing it, especially when the additions in this expansion are so 
 numerous and so much fun. Cleopatra is both more difficult and more complex than Pharaoh, but it 
 also makes the game seem new and fresh. And you can't ask much more than that from an expansion 
 pack.    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (2 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Greatwasabi
Rating: 7.8
Date: May 17, 2006 7:10 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay:: 8
  Why: The expansion features many new additions to the game such as being able to build tombs for 
 the dead instead of enormous Pyramids, which are basically enormous bill boards to grave robbers 
 saying, "Look at me! I'm jam packed with gold!" This also brings in the new industries of lamp, 
 and paint making, as you need paint to tell the stories of the Pharoahs life on the wall with elaborate 
 paintings, and the lanterns are of course used to light the tombs. The plauges are also a new nice 
 touch to the game and add some difficulty as before you could simply ignore the gods and recieve 
 no punishment. This makes you spend your money more wisely and adds to the difficulty and realism 
 of the game.
  Pros: New additions are worthwile and enjoyable.
  Cons: Graphics could have been upped slightly. Your workers are unfortunately incredibly stupid. 
 Battles in the game are very small and rather boring.
  
  Graphics: : 4
  Why: The graphics are obviously dated and weren't even very good at the time of the games release. 
 The game does have some surprisingly nice cutscenes. The housing is all very bland and cities look 
 exremely run down and boring unless you have the best of the best housing. Night and day would 
 have also been a little better since it isn't always sunny in Egypt. 
  Pros: Pryamids, Tombs, etc look pretty good. Cutscenes done well.
  Cons. Lack of detail, water 
 fails to look like water. Character models are lacking, building models are lacking. 
  
  Sound:: 9
  Why: Sports a good bit of music which really supports the Egyptian theme of the game. 
 Certian, heavily populated areas of the city seem loud with the clanging of armorers hammer, people 
 talking, the usual market crowd bustle. 
  Pros: Good music, areas of the city that should sound loud are. Audio for people if you right click 
 on them is nice, good that it varies depending on what they need. 
  Cons: Battles are not loud at all. You just hear the swish of swords and arrows flying in a perfectly 
 straight line through the air. Shoudl have done a much better job with this.
  
  Value: 8
  Why: Game is actually quite long. Missions take quite a while to beat, except for the timed ones 
 which are often frusturating as this is a slower, take your time kind of game. Since missions are 
 pretty open ended and accomplished however you feel is the best way to do it there is some replay 
 value. 
  Pros: Open ended game play is nice. Long time to beat game is good for replay value.
  Cons: Timed 
 missions are quite dumb as this game should be more focused on spending hours per mission.
  
  Overall: 7.8
  Why: This isn't a game for people looking for a fast paced, action oriented 
 RTS like Age of Empires. This is a much slower, more economy driven type of game. Has a few shortcomings 
 with graphics, and worker AI however this is still a fairly good expansion to a great game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: suzabbe
Rating: 8.9
Date: Feb 19, 2005 12:37 pm PT
Review:  This is an expansion pack for the city-building game Pharaoh. It is well worth the price. Pharaoh 
 by itself is one of the best strategy games I've played; with the Cleopatra expansion you are able 
 to do and build so much more. It is a rare thing to find an expansion worthy of the original. With 
 Cleopatra you build your Egyptian city as you would in Pharaoh but now you have much more available 
 to you like new monuments, a lamp maker, a henna farm, chariot making and my favorite the building 
 of a zoo. Building a zoo increases your city's culture rating. On the negative side, if you're 
 just interested in making a little city, Sierra added plagues like the Nile turning to blood and 
 swarms of locusts eating your crops. But these make the game more interesting and challenging. 
 Also added are new enemies like Roman Soldiers that will invade your city to make things exciting. 
 Overall an excellent expansion pack for an already great game. 
  
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
