-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Clive Barker's Jericho
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/adventure/clivebarkersjericho/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Gorgeously creepy visuals and sound.
 Jumping between teammates makes for a lot of variety.
 Some tense, exciting firefights .
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Horrifically confined level design leaves no room to maneuver.
 Lame final boss caps a stupendously awful ending.
 Long animations and visual effects leave certain characters far too vulnerable in battle.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Oct 29, 2007
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 6.5
Critic Score: 6.5, 22 Review (s)
User Score: 7.5, 2,240 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Codemasters
Developer: Mercury Steam
Genre: Horror Action Adventure
Date:     Oct 23, 2007 &raquo;  
ESRB: Mature

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Poor level design poisons Jericho's awesome but unrealized potential. 

  Clive Barker's Jericho is an inconsistent first-person shooter, alternating between moments of 
 pure, atmospheric greatness and irritating design paradoxes that suck the fun out of the gameplay. 
 For every incredible set piece -- a battle in a Roman gladiator arena, fearful attacks by ghostly 
 children -- there is a frustrating sequence that puts every shortcoming in the game proudly on display. 
 There's a lot going on, and sometimes it comes together exquisitely. More often, Jericho's various 
 elements get in the way of one another, creating a game you'll love one moment and hate the next. 

           Say cheese!      

  Horror writer Clive Barker's touch is most evident in Jericho's overall sense of impending doom. 
 The time-traveling narrative takes you to a number of eras -- World War II, ancient Sumeria -- and 
 all of them are wrapped in a demonic haze of darkness and dread. The architecture is brooding and 
 imposing, shadowed corners look like they could harbor something truly sinister, and soft ambient 
 lighting brings it all together to make for a cohesive look. The sound design is equally sinister, 
 with the quiet, pulsing soundtrack and the sound of dripping water making you wonder what you might 
 be encountering ahead. That isn't to say that Jericho is a truly scary game. It's incredibly dark 
 (you'll get good use of your flashlight) , often intense, and always a little eerie, but you'll 
 never jump out of your seat. It's a Gothic paradise, and as a study in pure atmosphere, it succeeds 
 in spades.  

  The story itself never really takes advantage of all this thick, fearful ambience. The setup is 
 pretty awesome on its own, though. In the beginning, God didn't create Adam and Eve -- He created 
 a sexless being known as the firstborn. Turns out that whole experiment didn't work out too well, 
 and the thing got locked away in an alternate reality, where it occasionally gets too bored and 
 tries to escape. The secretive Jericho squad exists to shove the firstborn back where it belongs. 
 Too bad the script itself is just a thin slice of nonsense, featuring far too many hokey one-liners 
 ("praise the Lord and pass the ammunition!") than good taste allows. And just when you are finally 
 getting into it, the game ends with a lame boss fight without answering any of the main questions 
 it raised. Leaving room for a sequel is one thing; creating a story that literally goes nowhere 
 is something else entirely.  

  Your own character, Ross, can jump from one member of Jericho squad to another, which sets up the 
 game's most intriguing -- and successful -- mechanic. At any point, you can take control of any of 
 the remaining six members of the squad, and each of them handle quite differently from the others. 
 First of all, they come equipped with different weaponry. More importantly, most of them have two 
 special skills at their disposal, from Cole's ability to slow down time, to Delgado's knack for 
 setting foes on fire, to Church's enemy-paralyzing cloud of blood. At first, it's tough to remember 
 which squadmate possesses which weapons and which skills, but the game does a good job of introducing 
 you to the powers one by one, and eventually it becomes second nature.  

  That isn't to say that every character is particularly useful. Church's rooting skill and Cole's 
 time-slowing ability are possibly the most useful powers, since they give you time to act. Jones, 
 on the other hand, only gets an astral projection skill, and it's rarely helpful outside of some 
 of the game's puzzles. You'd think with six different unique characters to control that Jericho 
 might be spreading itself too thin, but while that is true with other elements in Jericho, the 
 different skills give you a lot of variety without making things feel schizophrenic. The characters 
 you aren't in control of at any given time are governed by the game's semiadequate artificial intelligence, 
 and you can give them rudimentary orders to stay behind, fall back, or move to a specified location. 
 But this is where Jericho begins to stumble -- big-time.  

  As the game progresses, you will at first be ready to deplore the teammate AI for dying so easily. 
 You can revive downed teammates, but there are times when you spend more time reviving than you 
 spend shooting guns and performing awesome powers. Yet on its own, the AI isn't half bad. Teammates 
 run for cover when possible and use their special abilities on their own. But what good does it 
 do to program the AI to take cover and flank when the level design features almost nothing but 
 narrow corridors and confined rooms? The reason that your teammates look like they are bullet fodder 
 is because they simply have  nowhere to go . You'll watch as teammates go down over and over again, 
 simply because they are all stuck in the same tiny space.  

  Then, add to the mix the game's most annoying (and annoyingly common) foes: demons that explode 
 upon death. The things lumber along quickly and take down any nearby character when they fall. 
 And, like most of Jericho's supersturdy enemies, they absorb a good number of bullets before they 
 die. On its own, it's a perfectly legitimate enemy design. But in a game with six squad members 
 and the most claustrophobic levels ever devised, it's the opposite of fun. You'll watch in horror 
 as your entire squad goes down at once and you are powerless to stop the violence. Why would you 
 create an enemy that needs to be taken down from a distance, in a game that doesn't let you distance 
 yourself? Maybe it's meant to be a challenge, but in reality, it's just imbalanced and cheap. We 
 suspect it's all done under the guise of being "tactical," but this is no tactical shooter. Enemies 
 just mindlessly traipse toward you, so the extent of your tactics is switching between characters 
 to use their abilities in tandem.  

  And that's the way of Jericho: design elements that are fine on their own, and a disaster when 
 combined together. Slow strafing speed doesn't have to be bad. Slow strafing speed in a level when 
 the exploding monsters continually respawn, and you are only playing as Delgado, is murder. Then 
 you have the pretty animations and special effects. They look neat, but some effects, like the 
 10-second fiasco you have to experience when you revive someone as Rawlings from afar, get in the 
 way. The action leaves you vulnerable for so long that it's better to just run up and use the standard 
 revival skill, letting the AI handle Rawlings (though unsurprisingly, he is almost always the first 
 character to bite the dust) . There are a number of effects like this that take their good old time, 
 which would be fine if you could get yourself out of the way to perform your powers and enjoy the 
 corresponding visual display.  

  When the levels open up, you can see how great Jericho could have been if it had just been given 
 room to breathe. A spectacular Crusades era boss battle and a series of battles in a Roman arena 
 are perfect examples, and had the entire game followed suit, it could have approached greatness. 
 There aren't enough of these moments in Jericho's eight hours of gameplay, but when they arrive, 
 they hint at loads of unrealized potential. In fact, it is your ability to see the potential behind 
 the missteps that will determine how much you like Jericho. This is, without a doubt, a love-it-or-hate-it 
 kind of game: easy to love for the occasionally awesome and intense firefight, easy to hate for 
 its wide array of frustrating design contradictions.  

           You might want to have that looked at.      

  You'll get essentially the same experience 
 regardless of which version you play. All of them look great and run smoothly. The textures in 
 the PlayStation 3 version look a bit cleaner than those in the Xbox 360 version, though the lighting 
 in the 360 and PC releases is a bit more foreboding. But they all feature relatively long loading 
 times between levels, which will make you thankful for the story snippets you can read during them. 
 And none of them feature any kind of multiplayer mode, so once you are done, unless you want to 
 relive the experience at a higher level of difficulty, you are done for good.  

  Jericho is both a triumph and a disaster, and not a lot of games manage to be both of these at 
 once. Frustrating, exciting, inconsistent, linear -- these words and many more describe the various 
 elements of Clive Barker's Jericho. If you've got a high tolerance for gameplay annoyances and 
 like the feeling of imposing dread and claustrophobia this corridor crawl provides, by all means, 
 give it a shot. If you like tight shooting mechanics and smart level design, you'll want to steer 
 clear.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (153 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: phoeniix454
Rating: 7.5
Date: Apr 11, 2009 11:43 am PT
Review:  Some people like military shooter games... some prefer suspenseful survival horror... yet others 
 are amused by fantasy and spellcasting stories. Now, what if a game was all three?
  
  Clive Barker's Jericho takes place in an alternate-reality where magic has it's own governmental 
 division, even though it's still not a completely trusted science. Throughout the game you take 
 control of the leader of the Jericho Squad, a seven-man unit of "witches with guns" - each member 
 is a soldier who specializes in a different weapon and a unique psychic ability ranging from telekinesis 
 to fire-demon summons to healing.
  
  Jericho's story begins with their assignment to Al-Khali, an ancient city that has been the source 
 of contention since the beginning of time. The ruins house the Box, a slice of time seperate from 
 the real world where the Firstborn resides. ( (The Firstborn was God's first creation before man, 
 but became too powerful and was sealed away into this alternate dimension. Needless to say, it 
 wasn't pleased with this arrangement) ) . Occasionally throughout time, the Firstborn coerces some 
 power-hungry moron into freeing it, and it immediately proceeds to take over the world unless a 
 group of seven mystics forces it back into it's imprisonment. And it's happened again, but this 
 time Jericho is assigned to clean it up...
  
  The game is not RPG, but more of a point A to point B style action. The story is fairly interesting 
 and follows a basic format of several levels set in different time periods ( (each with their own 
 set of enemies and challenges) ) followed by a boss fight before moving on. Each 'level''s world 
 is fleshed out with vivid - and usually bloody - scenery, complete with sporadic side characters, 
 most of which are a few fries short of a Happy Meal due to centuries trapped in the Box, who add 
 extra fire-power and sarcastic dialogue. Each character has their own personality and just the 
 comments they fire off as you traverse Jericho's land ( (are we having FUN yet??) ) are amusing in 
 and of themselves.
  
  One of the best features of the game ( (in my opinion) ) was the character-switching system. Throughout 
 the game you can jump between characters to maximize strategy, or just for a new twist on the battles 
 because each of the seven plays completely differently. There were some balance problems, because 
 some of them were simply more powerful than others, but for the most part it behooves you to experiment 
 with all seven. This also allows for replayability: after playing the entire game with Delgado's 
 machine gun and fire-demon, you can switch to Church's ninja-blade and blood magic or Black's sniper 
 rifle and telekinesis for a little more excitement.
  
  Jericho does however have some flaws. Like mentioned, some of the characters are extremely weak 
 compared to others. Also, the game is fairly short: you can easily finish it in under ten hours, 
 and it originally sold for a fairly high price ( (though it's one of those games that made it to 
 the bargain bin pretty quickly) ) . The run-and-shoot system goes from exciting to tedious after 
 a few hours, and you're forced to experiment in order to relieve the monotony. And there are a 
 few really cool functions of certain characters that the game simply never tells you about. During 
 my second run-through of the game, I learned that Black's rifle had a zooming scope available by 
 complete accident. That made my life easier...
  
  All in all, it's a "solid" game. It's fun, fairly easy to grasp, and action-packed. Though the 
 length and sometimes boring levels can be hindering, the psychic powers are pretty cool, and I 
 recommend any shooter / fantasy / horror fan to at least try it out. :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: goreaffection_i
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 4, 2009 7:58 am PT
Review:  I dont know why some games, even though being brilliant, never make it big??
  Maybe thats why i like them even more. How great it feels to find a game surprisingly awesome when 
 u were expecting it to me crap, u know what i mean? 
  Sure Jericho has got a few scars here and there, so what? Which game hasnt? The story of the game 
 is awesome with lot of suspense and Apocryphal historic background. You play as Ross, the leader 
 of the Jericho squad. From an impure Catholic Priest, to a loud mouth machinegunner, to diabolical 
 witches, soon u will fall in love with ur Jericho squad! The characters in the game have amazing 
 powers. But thats not all. Sometimes u have to tactically use each other's powers to successfully 
 defeat ur enemies. But there i go giving away the climax. The enemies are disturbingly horrifying 
 creatures. Just make sure ur lights are out and the sound's in full volume, Clive Barker's Jericho 
 will come alive! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: freudlacan
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 24, 2008 12:01 am PT
Review:  I just finished playing this beautiful game, when I started it I couldn't believe such great graphics, 
 I don't really understand the people that complaints for this issue.
  
  about the history for the people that also complaints for this, I have to say its cause they are 
 narrow minded. Ive read other Clives barkers novels and no, his not exactly a horror writer but 
 a dark and deep historian, that turns real myths from different cultures into novels, and thats 
 what he did with this game.
  
  The team its great, you really have to use their ability's (not like bioshok that you can win the 
 game using just two) and also you can really get into the team, they have personality and that's 
 something lots of games lacks. I even want a secuel of this game just to keep playing with them 
 (also the end asks for a secuel)
  
  I just have a couple of things to criticize for the game and they are only related to the difficulty. 
 
  
  1. I played in easy mode, cause Im not a fps fan and I died to many times to make it fun, some 
 enemies can kill the whole team with an explosion, or the most frustrating moment when I was just 
 about to reach a save point and and enemy came around the corner and exploded in my face. This 
 is also related to a lack of a map in the game.
  
  2. In some boss fight I really had no more choice that go into a walk through and read what I had 
 to do after Ive tried everything, so a little more guidance in the game of what you have to do 
 wont make any harm.
  
  So if you like a dark, really dark not stupid dark, but a dark deep bloody and fleshy game this 
 is a classic , please make a second part! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DoctorCream
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 14, 2008 12:42 pm PT
Review:  Like many I was put off by Jericho simply because of the overwhelming number of bad ratings and 
 poor reviews it received right off the bat.
  
  I would put money though on the likelihood that most of these came from people who played the demo 
 only and didn't bother getting the full game.
  
  And in fact - the demo itself was a lousy representation of this game - promoting the idea of awkward 
 game play, non-association with a central character, and overly complicated mechanics due to its 
 squad-based engine style. It did a lousy job of representing Jericho in many ways.
  
  I finally brought myself around to play it this week and straight out this game did not deserve 
 anywhere near the bashings it received.
  
  Firstly - most of the game can be played with one or two characters, with six main squad members 
 that each have 1 or 2 respective talents. Switching easily to these other members you can achieve 
 tasks that may rely on their respective capabilities, such as opening heavy doors, creating a fire 
 ward for protection, engaging telekinesis for object movement, etc.
  
  The story is exceptional and the pacing is very quick. The game itself does a very good job of 
 introducing the respective squad members and their talents so that they become quickly familiar, 
 easy to remember, and overall fun to use. Beyond that part of the challenge is in not getting your 
 team wiped through various levels of all-out war against demonic creatures.
  
  Gameplay wise: The easiest way to describe this is as an in-your-face Gears of War type game with 
 respect to mid-range combat, played in first person, with elements of Doom 3 as it relates to your 
 conquest through Hell-like environments. The monsters are varied and extremely well detailed, and 
 although the game lacks the type of startles and scares that both the Doom and Fear franchises 
 feature, it makes up for it through sheer intensity alone of the combat you will be instantly engaged 
 in.
  
  A fun 7 to 10 hour romp, with some of the best monster animations represented torturous imagery 
 available within any video game.
  
  
  - Doctor Cream
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: woef
Rating: 5
Date: Oct 30, 2008 3:49 am PT
Review:  Clive Barker's Jericho.. What can i say about this game?
  
  Gameplay: 3
  
  Let's start with the gameplay. Switching between the characters is a cool idea.. but some of the 
 them aren't quite as good as some other characters. So you'll mainly be playing your favorite chars.
 
  Some of them have some interesting weapons and skills.
  The levels of Jericho are quite good looking but there is no room to shoot, avoid or even think!! 
 
  This is a real healing game.. because you'll constantly be healing your squad mates..
  Then the designers made the monsters far too strong!
  If they made more space the game would 
 have been better.
  The squad idea is great but if they made more space ^.
  The game's story is horrible and where is the horror?
  Undying had such good gameplay. They really 
 let me down on this one..
  Also there are these frustrating scenes where you have to use the arrow buttons.. You'll have to 
 try multiple times.. grrr...!!
  
  Graphics: 9
  
  Probably the best of this game!
  The game runs smooth and has nice effects.
  Explosions look really good with all the smoke and 
 the enemies look very cool.
  I had no technical problems with this game.
  
  Sounds: 8
  
  Good weapon sounds.. Good enemy sounds.. Overall fitting music.. Really standard voice-acting..
 
  
  Value: 3
  
  Story is bad.. Short game.. No multiplayer.. Some bonus features.. You have to pay to get the cheat 
 codes!
  
  Presentation:3
  
  Again the story is bad.
  Had high expectations from this game.. But no its a frustrating game when it comes to beating monsters.
 
  
  That's my opinion. Thanks for reading my review ;)
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: jvargas75
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 19, 2008 7:13 pm PT
Review:  This game have a few unmatched features like the "possession" of different characters with great 
 weapons and gorgeous graphics. The game runs like a knife with a good hardware, you don't need 
 the latest video card to enjoy a very good sharp enemy falling in pieces all over the place.
  
  I think that the levels are a little bit smalls but it help you to follow the story just straight 
 forward.
  
  Another good thing is the sound. The game start to play some music (very good music indeed) when 
 you are trap or in a middle of a confrontation and the combination between music/sound really put 
 yourself in the game... it means in the middle of hell.
  
  I read other review where the people feels uncomfortable with the movies and a few "talking" scenes 
 but i thing that these parts help the story to be more consistent. 
  
  Another good thing is the loading time. The game just stop for a couple of seconds between one 
 level to another so you don't loose the track in this moment and you can read some interesting 
 things to understand a little bit more the story.
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Warpld
Rating: 7
Date: Oct 10, 2008 1:21 am PT
Review:  Jericho is a somehow attractive game which is obviously meant to be great, but somewhere in the 
 production process, the developers gave up on it. While playing it, I get the feeling that this 
 is half a game and it needed like a year more of production to become what it was supposed to be.
 
  
  What I mean is, the story is terrific. It is obvious that Clive Barker has something to do with 
 it. It will probably be the only thing that will keep you going most of the time, but it is represented 
 mainly through typewriting when levels are loading. Characters are intriguing and have depth but 
 you will get all the details about them through unlockables to read in the extras section. We have 
 awesome enemies design with high-detail models positioned on low-resolution textures and probably 
 the worst level design that has come to the market recently.
  
  Now, this game was supposed to be scary. It is gory, but it feels much more like playing Painkiller 
 minus the stake gun and the great physics... and the masterpiece levels with all the secrets and 
 all, of course. Add the fact that the action gets somewhat fragmented between character switching 
 and resurrecting fallen comrades and I start to wonder what I liked in this game.
  
  Truth is, the game is not as bad as some of the reviews on the net present it. Though combat is 
 fragmented, switching between characters and using their special powers and weapons is actually 
 smooth and fun... not considering the fact that some of the characters are utterly useless, of 
 course! Level design is generally horrible, but some of the settings are actually nice (especially 
 later ones) . And the game presents some pretty good boss fights. They are nothing that will make 
 your jaw drop but still, they are interesting and need some thought and switching between characters 
 and using powers.
  
  However, there is one thing that this game has no excuse for. The game has simply the worst ending 
 I remember and I have played like 300 games. I have seen boss death animations longer and more 
 detailed than this "ending". I was planning to give this game a 7.5 mark (up from 5-5.5 in the 
 beginning, so this game really must get better with advancement) shortly before the end but when 
 I saw the end, I cannot but lower the final mark. They could be leaving space for a sequel, but 
 with a game like that, they might not get the chance to make one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stappy
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 28, 2008 7:07 pm PT
Review:  When i picked up Jericho, i expected it would be abit like F. E. A. R. How wrong i was. It's not a 
 bad game, however. The immersion is some of the best i've ever seen, and the animations simply 
 blast you away from the screen.
  
  Because of an event in the beginning of the game, you're able to switch between each of the seven 
 man squad as you move through the lost city of Al'Khali in the hunt for the demonic Arnold Leach. 
 The beginning of the game is during our present era. However, after a few incidents, the team is 
 sent through several eras where they have to fight and defeat that eras demonic masters.
  
  The city itself is amazing. You get to see it in ruins, splattered with blood, in a clean roman 
 era, and during a wartorn World War II aspect. The game contains alot of gore though, and the monsters 
 look like the children of "The Mummy" and "The Elder Scrolls IV".
  
  Definately a game to pick up if you've got nothing better to do. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BelzebuVlad
Rating: 3
Date: Sep 25, 2008 7:22 pm PT
Review:  Ok, I was surfing on a PS3 forum where I saw a Jericho's topic opened with posts made before the 
 game's release and I felt the duty to come GameSpot and write a review at this (almost huge) crappy 
 game.
  
  So, let's start with the hype that was generated before the game's release, it was promised a great 
 horror game, full of action, with a great story, gore rated M and bla bla bla, all those beautifull 
 things the media say. After reading so many marvellous things about the game I got excited and 
 so anxyous for the game to came out.
  
  When the game came out and I started to play it, quickly I get really mad, because I didn't bought 
 the game that was promised. First thing, the game's difficulty is null, you only need a good aim, 
 because all the puzzles and obstacles you face are solved by a good samaritan squadron mate, yes, 
 and more than that, when you are going to start to think in what to do he has already said what 
 do you have to do. THANKS HOLY MATES!! THANKS!! Then the HORROR, where is it? Ok, I get it... they 
 were talking about your mates IA that is HORROROUS in combat, they are really dummies, more like 
 CS bots at Very very easy mode... They are dying every second, they are worthless against the enemy 
 and more, sometimes they just get in front of your aim. So, in resume in combat you are going to 
 see all your mates dying and the priest, that has the ability to ressurrect, ressing them (or dying 
 too) while you get are kicking some dummy monster butt... So at this time I start thinking why 
 the hell this game is rated M, must be only of the wine-coloured blood, because even a Teletubbies 
 game can be more harder! The last thing I have to say is the poor and OMG story that the game has! 
 The main character of this game "dies" at the beginning of it and you are put in the control of 
 his spirit and with his spirit you can get in any of your mates body to control it, ok, this is 
 consistent, but the true story of the game is totally confusing, out-timed and has no sense!
  
  Dont buy this game, it will be money thrown at the garbage! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: k80sg
Rating: 6
Date: Sep 14, 2008 9:44 am PT
Review:  I was attracted to this game after reading the description and was ready to cast out the bad reviews 
 I have read as I was so consumed by the idea of pitting 6  7 soldiers each with their own supernatural 
 strengths to battle that I thought it is going to overshadow the flaws but I was indeed wrong. 
 Undeniably, it has a potential concept however marred by awfully poor implementation. 
  
  Before starting the game, my perception towards it was there is going to be packs of action that 
 involves switching characters to best suit for different situations without restrictions on the 
 methods to deal with each scenario. I was partially right, the action is pretty tight but the part 
 where I felt so much needed in the game was by giving us more variations in battles. The game plays 
 in such a monotonous way that it doesn't really need you to utilize all of the character's super 
 power aside from must-use situations whereby you need to "possess" one of the characters to get 
 pass certain defenses or enemy. Apart from that it's more like casual choices and it doesn't matter 
 who you hand-picked or prefer, you will make your way through all those ever look alike monsters 
 with constant pounding from your mates.
  
  Another highly annoying feature of the game is the space given to maneuver. It's simply too cramp 
 for you and your session of warriors to move around. I find myself playing medic most of the time 
 throughout the game. I can't put much blame on the AIs because they just do not have enough room 
 to dodge especially when enemies are armed with missile attacks and as a result, they often pass 
 out in batches and that is when your babysitting duty comes into play. Thank god that you mates 
 has got the same healing ability.
  
  After spending several hours making it half way through the game, I was hoping that things might 
 get more interesting but I was disappointed. I personally feel that there isn't anything real worthy 
 in this game. In addition to the dull rocky environment and repetitive game play adds on to the 
 misery. There are certainly much better choices out there.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Phileosophos
Rating: 7.5
Date: Aug 23, 2008 9:16 pm PT
Review:  Don't let the reviewers lead you astray: the game is better than they suggest. Yes, it's relatively 
 short, the opposing bestiary is small-ish and repetitive, and some of the level designs are an 
 exercise in frustration given the enemies that populate them. This is all true, and none of it 
 is good.
  
  Yet on the other hand, the game features a bunch of fun weapons, and a host of different powers 
 and options that make the situations enjoyable. I've played through the game at least four times, 
 and I've taken very different approaches to each play through. 
  
  You can play as a head-popping sniper unlike any other game. You can take the route of the reality 
 hacker and slow time to run up and dump grenades at the enemies' feet. You can go the superior 
 firepower route and just mow them down with a huge cannon and a flame demon. You can use possession 
 to use your enemies against themselves and blow them to bits. You can even do the samurai thing 
 and sneak attack with a katana -- arguably the most fun of all the options.
  
  And that's just if you focus on a particular character! Most of the game's scenarios allow you 
 to exploit the synergy between the characters in ways I won't even get into. Suffice it to say 
 that you'll have lots of options, toys, and skills to make the game fun. You do have to overlook 
 some rough edges, but it's a better game than its ratings suggest. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dalesinger
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 17, 2008 7:39 pm PT
Review:  First off, the graphics are extremely dark and detailed and great gore effects. The gameplay is 
 incredibly intense and brutal and i dont mind the claustrophobic level design because otherwise, 
 the game would be too easy and not as creepy. The story is great and you will not want to leave 
 the computer until you have beat the game. I noticed alot of people complaining about the difficulty, but 
 i play this game through the first time on hard and it was just right for me, but maybe im just 
 hardcore :) . 
  ONE THING THOUGH... wtf was the ending all bout?? PLEASE EXPLIAN ON FORUMS! 
  Otherwise, if you 
 dont mind fighting in small corridors, then this is a MUST BUY.
  
  character limit  
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chronos_ss2
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 8, 2008 9:30 pm PT
Review:  Pros:
  I totally loved this game, I just loved it in spite of all the bad rating that this game has received 
 all over the placed, I really don't know where it's coming from. Graphics are very good, the game 
 its packed with insane action from beginning to end, I actually loved the fact that you could switched 
 from all of your team mates and used all of their abilities that was very sweet. The game is a 
 very good FPS, you can also use special abilities from your team mates who made the game all the 
 more fun to play, and it's entertaining and definitely enjoyable. I happily gave this game an 8.5, 
 I rate games on their ability to entertain me not on how good they look (well may be a little lol) 
 ;P, a game can have the state of the art graphics engine and blow like never before seen in the 
 history of gaming. In my opining, I found this game to be entertaining.
  
  
  Cons:
  Ok I'll give in the fact that it may not ("may not") have had a good story or plot, still I think 
 the whole traveling back to ancient history and uncovering ancient civilizations' taken over by 
 evil was pretty cool and the whole deal with the centurions as well.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: mackey12345
Rating: 7
Date: Aug 6, 2008 2:03 am PT
Review:  Clive Barker Jericho is a horror themed first person shooter, from the famed Clive Barker, while 
 the premise is very tasteful and promising, the execution leaves alot to be desired, mainly due 
 to the lazy level design, the sub-par friendly ai, and the storyline.
  
  Lets start with the storyline, it looks very promising, the story starts you off as an elite group 
 known as Jericho, your really holy warriors blessed with super natural powers (except for Cole 
 who is a reality hacker... wow...) . Your main task is to lead your band of soldiers to do battle 
 against this creature known as the Firstborn, a creature created before man, the storyline is good, 
 but there are some moments within the campaign where they could have filled you in on the backstory 
 of the villians you face, for example, the first boss, the German General Lichtehammer, and the 
 3rd last boss, Governor Vicus. I am going to say this now... The ending for this game is simply.... 
 TERRIBLE!!!! You have been warned... Trust me when I say... Terrible....
  
  The Characters are interesting, and varied to play around with, they all have different playing 
 styles, but playing one throughout the whole game doesn't make it intimidating to play with a different 
 character, its just really changing weapons from person to person. The characters all have there 
 own personality with them, For example, Black, the Lesbian Sniper with a trouble past and who has 
 a crush on the second in command, Cole, the Reality Hacker who hates being touched, much like a 
 childish personality within a female body, Jones, who acts like the enforcer of the squad, all 
 they tell you about him is that he is a Bookworm, liked reading books instead of fighting, Delgado, 
 a hot-headed Latino who acts as the heavy weapons specialist in the game, Dates Church, the Assassin 
 and scout for the squad, who in turn, has daddy issues (literally...) .
  
  The Characters are fun, but it wouldv'e been even better if you could get to know your crew, the 
 pieces of information I gave you above are all they give you, which isn't very... interactive, 
 for example, like a resting period for your squad before you go into battle, from there you get 
 to know your crew, that would be great. In combat, your team will do there job, but the enemy gets 
 to close, your in for a bloodfest, mainly cause your teammates stand there like lifeless bastards 
 waiting to get shot, so in other words, you have to do most of the work, basically compensating 
 for your teammates incompetence, really, throughout the game, you will be doing more healing then 
 shooting, if you get cornered be the enemy.
  
  The Level Design is lazyily done, its just terrible, its one straight path, with a couple twist 
 and turns, no interactivity in the environment, and to top off the bland level design, its so cramped, 
 that, like I said before, the enemy will be able to corner you really easily, especially the exploding 
 kamikaze dude, which makes this experience a little frustrating, however, the artistic direction 
 of the games levels is phenomenal, it looks realistic, and... well... Clive Barkers trademark Horror 
 Art, blood, guts, pretty much all the ingredients you need to make a great horror themed action 
 game.
  
  The shooting in the game does a decent job, its all done from the perspective of the person you 
 are controlling, it is very similiar to Half-Life except you hear the protagonist speak... However, 
 the shooting model doesn't speak well for itself, all the guns are just point and shoot, with no 
 tactical consideration, making shooting the guns, a little boring, perhaps the only satisfaction 
 you get from the guns is from popping someones head off with either the shotgun or sniper.
  
  The Graphics are good, but not cutting edge however, on the PC, its merely a decent looker, 
 the lighting is soft and the textures do work for the game, the detail on your team-mates is remarkable, 
 and the levels do look fantastic all there own, and if you have a recent pc, a dual core, 8800gt, 
 2 gig setup, you will have no problem running this game on high, the detail on others within the 
 game however is not so spotty... in fact, the British Troops you encounter on your journey didn't 
 exactly get the makeover that Jericho Team got...
  
  The Sound is sub-par, Weapon Effects sound kinda pathetic, The Sniper Rifle sounds powerful, The 
 Dual Desert Eagles sound downright pathetic, really wimpy, the assault rifle, the carbine rifle, 
 and my god the minigun, they sound like the wimpiest things in the world, they don't sound like 
 they have a mean punch to them, you will nod your head in shame at the weapon effects. The Voice 
 Acting, again is sub-par, some of the voices sound flat-out bad, over-done if anything else, only 
 a couple voices work, Cole works out well, Black and Jones are decent, Delgado looks big and tough 
 correct? My god he sound like he is friggin 13... just pathetic, and the chick he's dating in the 
 game? A cheap Southern impersonation, which isn't convincing at all...
  
  The praise I have to give is the Art Direction, it all looks fantastic, very atmospheric, and the 
 Enemies you fight all look scary in there own way, and especially the basic melee infantry, trust 
 me, its jaw dropping.... 
  
  All in all, the game is decent, marred by some cosmetic problems, Plot Problems, lazy design issues, 
 and Sound issues, make what would have been a great game, into a Merely Decent experience with 
 a good number of problems. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: p00pz
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 3, 2008 6:37 pm PT
Review:  This game is a FPS with some added elements of uniqueness. Primarily the "F" in FPS should be changed 
 to an "M" for Multi. As you are given command of several squad mates with unique powers and weapons. 
 It defiantly adds some excitement compared to simply playing a single character. The AI is well 
 executed: team mates know how to take cover and when to use their abilities, but in tight situations 
 sometimes it's easier for you to take over a certain character to best use their special weapon/ability.
 
  
  The continuity of the story could have used some more work, as it lost me a bit in the beginning, 
 the plot only started to make sense later in the game. A broader introduction would have been nicer. 
 The boss fights were plenty of fun and gory. 
  
  The eye candy is also very nicely done. Guts, blood and gore fly around with no end. HDR lights 
 up dungeons and buildings beautifully. Character models look great too, specially some monsters 
 look truly unique and terrifying.
  
  In terms of audio, effects are nicely done, what i really liked however was the music, it hits 
 off each level very well and sustains the pace of the action.
  
  All in all, if you're looking for a different shooter, and are a fan of horror gender, this game 
 fits the bill 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AlienXS
Rating: 5
Date: Jul 27, 2008 4:13 am PT
Review:  A game is something different. Actually it can feel great only if you're a real Barker fan, otherwise 
 the game could look boring and repetitive, where intermezzos are sometimes too long and talk too 
 much, even the extras are too dedicated at the story itself more than some nice interactive feature 
 (as a zoomable 3D Character model or more explanation of Jericho's powers) . So once again this 
 is good only if you're a Clive Barker's book lover. The story is indeed deep and nice but the game 
 ends in a even toooooo sudden way. The graphics are good but you need a powerful machine to make 
 it run smoothly. Certain level are wonderfully constructed, other are just PLAIN BORING. all the 
 attacks are easily expected and foreseen, no real scary moments or thrill.
  If you want those play DOOM3 and FEAR.
  So it's basically no good to spend the full price money 
 in this game. This is why I waited for a super extra offer :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: asafs16
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 28, 2008 5:47 am PT
Review:  - Lame final boss you got that right what is that stupid boss? a kid? thats lame, the last level 
 was so bad!!!
  
  awful ending, again yes the real boss is escape and there will not be clive barkers jericho 2 so 
 thats another time bad!!!
  
  Long animations and visual effects leave certain characters far too vulnerable in battle... ?? 
 yes..
  
  but the good things about the game, lets start by saying that jericho has a great story, great 
 graphics!!, really fun!!, and somethimes really hard when you need to change between your charters, 
 but still this game was awsome and it is not deserves a 6.5 i think that this game need to be at 
 least 8.5
  
  this game is really fun cool and great!
  this is one of the best games of 2007 simply awsome belive me
  you need to bye, beacuse this 
 game is really good and worth playing
  
  but even with all the bad things of that game i give it a 10.0
  beacus it was fun and cool! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Static-7
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 20, 2008 7:28 am PT
Review:  Jericho was a disgusting, weird, freaky, scary (and every other word you can think of) adventure 
 that was well worth the money. It took me a while to get this game, but finally I got to play it. 
 The story is twisted, but really interesting. The level design didn't bother me too much because 
 I was too busy killing things jumping at me from every direction. The graphics is pretty good and 
 won't disappoint. The only problem I had was the language (If I did a push up for every foul word 
 they used I would look like Arnold. It'll take you a while to get used to every one's abilities, 
 but once you've got that you'll be alright. Don't waste too much time on deciding if you want to 
 buy it, just go ahead, but beware this game is not for the faint of heart (if you want the full 
 affect play it at night when everyone in your house is asleep) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ghaz013
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jul 13, 2008 4:55 pm PT
Review:  Jericho has some of the best visual effects in a game I've seen in a long time but the weak story 
 and linear gameplay make me want to say make this one a RENT.
  
  -Pros-
  *Breath-taking Visual Effects
  *Interesting Spells for different Characters
  *Almost every 
 Gun has Alternate Fire Mode
  *Dark Creepy Atmosphere throughout
  *Play through a Variety of Environments
  *Excellent Shadow Effects
  *Ability to Switch to Different 
 Allies
  
  -Cons-
  *Painfully Linear in Gameplay
  *Story Hard to Follow
  *Enemy's are Predictable
  *Easy to Learn Enemy's Attack Sequence
  *Clunky Controls at First, 
 but get Easier
  
  
  I enjoyed Jericho, but it had its fair share of disappointments. It was well thought out but the 
 execution wasn't all quite there but I definitely give the developers an A+ for effort.
  
  I recommend this game as a rent, then if you are really into it then you can go from there.
  
 
  Hardware/Software- Probably will run smoothly on an 8 series video card. Its shadow/shader intensive 
 given the atmosphere and settings. Play with the settings until you find your happy spot! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: adridell
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 8, 2008 10:51 am PT
Review:  This game is just fun. To blow mindless bloody creatures into gory pools of flesh and blood is 
 just my thing. The gameplay is solid and the squad control works fine. No complaints about the 
 AI too as I found my team mates smartly taking cover and firing when they should.
  The boss fights are difficult at the right level, they all have that weak spot you must find in 
 order to bring them down, not just shoot them anywhere you can.
  The story is a bit confusing at times but I don't really expect a game like this to win any awards 
 for story telling.
  The atmosphere is creepy and scary, but there are not many spooks along the way.
  Despite all 
 I said above I admit this game is not for everyone, I can see a lot of reasons why some people 
 don't like it, but for me it's a very good game.
  I'm still halfway through the game and looking forward to see what's going to happen next. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: seraphym_k
Rating: 3.5
Date: Jul 8, 2008 2:09 am PT
Review:  Not sure I'll finish this game, it's just way too disappointing... Not scary one bit (not after 
 Doom 3) , hideous level designs (even open space levels are made corridor-style) , virtually useless 
 skills (due to long animation you get killed before cast is complete) and long animation to shift 
 to another character (yeah, see 5 characters killed in a row while your spirit flies around) , very 
 annoying intermediate scenes with "press left, right, left, right, up, down, down, up" stuff. All 
 in all - why do people play this game? Probably it could be a good game: visuals are not bad, sound 
 is nice, characters are fine, even with an attempt at humour. Probably it would be right, if it 
 wouldn't be made for consoles... Shame and pity, for there are very few decent horror action/fps 
 games these days. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Latz
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 5, 2008 8:17 am PT
Review:  I read a couple of reviews bashing this game and most of them sound very unprofessional as they 
 dwell on about three-four points that would be just disregarded as a minor flaw in any game (and 
 they were) for instance the healing taking to long - once you grasp the concept it takes about 
 a second and ur off - learning curve anyone??? just press heal (how long doest it take to press 
 space???) and run along - you'll start runing before even a 1/4 of the animation took place - i. e. 
 a second or less..... that's fast enough the levels design is linear - but if we made such a big 
 deal out off it every game up to this day would be total crap - most non-linear aspects of today's 
 games are get from A to D but not through corridor B - you can go through C - WOW!!!! - that's 
 so unlinear it just blows me away ......
  
  the only brain buster is the boss fights and how to take 'em down - but u get plenty of hints from 
 the squad members - a minus is the enemy always concentrating their fire on the controlled squad 
 member (i. e. - you) - illogical but to be expected for a bit of a harder gameplay a comment i 
 read - (not an exact quote) - when i fire a minigun at an enemy i expect them to stumble back not 
 forward --- yes u would - just show me a fantasy game where u saw that and i'll acknowledge it 
 most of the bad review's consist of rants from ppl who got stuck on a single point of the game 
 they didn't like and then proceeded to bash everything else cause of that one thing ---- i think 
 the same guy (the minigun guy) says he needs 5 clips for a headshot kill - i don't know which game 
 he was playing cause most enemies - when they are exposed - not behind a shield or some crap (and 
 more than a couple have them) will die from a single shot to the head - not from all weapons mind 
 u but delgados handgun, blacks sniper or jones' shotgun do the trick with absolutely no problem 
 ......
  
  most of the crap like the few thing I just mentioned has really obvious conterarguments in favor 
 of the game - that being said i really didn't expect the game having such bad reviews - the story 
 is on par with the best of them gaming wise - i really haven't ever seen or heard a game having 
 such a great story that it would merit a literary review - and this one isn't as well - as games 
 go it's very good ...
  
  the graphics for the time period are great better than most games that published about that time 
 ...
  
  one last thought - to the players writing reviews about games - you can't write a review about 
 something without seeing the whole picture - if one weapon doesn't shoot to your liking that doesn't 
 mean that the whole thing is a piece of **** -  most reviews i read are exactly like that and that's 
 just ridiculous ...... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: whitest_widow
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 29, 2008 9:57 pm PT
Review:  Alright, I neverrrr write reviews about games, I thought I'd let everyone know what I've dealt 
 with though. Because when it comes to singleplayer games, I've rarely gone all the way to actually 
 beat them, no matter how compelling the story is. BUT! I would dream this game until I finished 
 it. This thing haunted every second of my life [and it was amazing!] . Possibly my favorite single 
 player game in the past 5 years, at least. I have no clue why it has the rating it does. This should've 
 been the best single player of 07' without a doubt!! 
  
  Nothing more I can really say except to at least check this game out for yourself. If you're into 
 horror/thriller/psychological subjects.. bottom line.. buy this! You will eventually want to play 
 it again once you forget certain details!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JB2B
Rating: 6
Date: Jun 23, 2008 7:33 am PT
Review:  The idea was so great. The player being part of a team of evil hunting special forces has the ability 
 to switch between the different characters who all have a special power like slowing down time 
 or telekineses. 
  
  It sounded great, but it wasn't. 
  
  Because the characters of your team die very quickly which is mainly because they are either busy 
 performing their move c. q. animation or they're in a small corridor and have nowhere to go. Because 
 of this the game becomes frustrating. 
  
  It even made me so crazy that I wanted to cheat even before finishing the game the first time. 
 And I did. What I found is that the developer of this crappy game wants you to pay for cheats. 
 You get the first one (and the only one I used) by registering, but if you want more cheats you 
 have to pay. 
  I not only find this swindle it also gives me the feeling of being disrespected as a customer.
 
  I pay 60 Euro for a game and then I expect to be able to get anything out of it without spending 
 another 4 euro to get some cheats to expand my 'fun' with this game. I find this type of practives 
 ILLEGAL.
  
  But even without this the game is just good enough to spend some time with. You won't be blazed 
 away by the awesome graphics, great gameplay or storyline. 
  
  Rent this one ig you want some bloody action, do not, I repeat do not buy it. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: KillOBKilled
Rating: 8
Date: May 8, 2008 7:56 am PT
Review:  I've seen a few reviews that this game was disappointing, maybe it's because I don't play enough 
 FPS, but I loved it. I though it had just the right amount of freakyness and motivation, combined 
 with the squad control. What struck me as a nice touch was the way that 'Ross', the team leader 
 gained the perspective of the player jumping from squad member to squad member. It just felt to 
 me like a really nice way of incorporating a, normally glossed over, system. 
  I also really liked the variety of weapons and powers. The only character I think I could have 
 done without in a combat situation is Jones. I mean really, astral projection? Couldn't they have 
 given him the ability to control enemies or something? I always found him dying while I was trying 
 to flip a switch or something else.
  I'm not sure what it is lately with the mini games inside an fps, Bioshock had 'Tubes' and this 
 has 'Simon Says' but, I enjoyed it. I'm waiting for the game with minesweeper in it!
  Overall, I enjoyed it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thenewau25
Rating: 6.5
Date: Apr 29, 2008 10:56 am PT
Review:  jericho is the next clive brker's game after undying so if you like this trust me play undying 
 the game focuese on a paranormal squad callled jericho facing the demonic-morphed members of a 
 cult in a lost city of all khali and find a breach that goes back in time and back and back till 
 they find the firstborn which is the first creation of god and couldnt destroy it so god made a 
 prison the prima pyxis! the game starts nice shows some very detailed graphs and ligthings and 
 got a nice music in the beggining there is a dream that a child shows to the squad leader in desert 
 an area and says this is were all started so he wakes up and gathers the squad to get to that area, 
 these guys have gone many missions before and now there ready for something more chalenging, if 
 i say that i d like another setting would they mind because i didnt really like the whole setting! 
 so the graphs look good and very detailed and nice lightings BUT the lightings are fixed and the 
 areas very undetaield however even without antialiasing its hard to find rough edges! Now the music 
 and the sound too but thats it for example the game intros are boring and the voice acting there 
 is bad also as a oresantation the main menu doesnt seem much the baground is bad and could obviously 
 be faster, so you start playing th game and it looks good the story too but later on it turns to 
 total crap so dont get fooled by the beggining anyway the squad leaders a bility is to heal outhers 
 and he has one weapon like every character with primary and secondary fire types the squad leader 
 dies and you can use his soull to control any squad member
  so whe got the ninja firl that has a sword and a smg and the power to use her own blood ot stop 
 the monsters a telekenetic sniper that you can guide bullets and a grenade launcher a machinegunner 
 with a fire demon and a reality hacker with a sub grenades an slo motion that character can recover 
 data in time if it existed always existed or create loop and paradox or restore ammo on every checkpoint 
 all characters look cool and the unlocables too there also re4 serquences of pressing buttons!
 
  
  NOW THE BAD POINTS its very linear and many times asking you to do things such as go behind a machinegun 
 and throw a grenade into or move alongside the wall and got to the outher side like prince of persia 
 and many outher annoying puzzles sorry for not having design the game and know exactly what they 
 got in mind also areas are very undetailed witjout much physics and there are all so simple and 
 lame what the hell where they bored the campaign aint short but can completed fast , to understand 
 the story you got to unlock every character info and the boss ending is reallty disapointing i 
 tired and the 3 sificulties if i say that i found almost no difference and many times the squad 
 members available aint the right for every satuation! the gameplay is deisadterous, first od all 
 the first enemy is a fast moving dodging 2.20 cm zombie type of enemy that strafes and doges shots 
 and moves really fast and his guts are ripped of, no a first enemy character thatt i can take seriously 
 or scares me at all later we got some exploding monster that to destroy them you got to hit the 
 yellow flashing circles however everytime you miss that enemy miss steps and moves forward and 
 even closer to you, EXCUSE ME BUT IF A M SHOOOTIN ONE OF THESE WITH A MINIGUN I EXPECT THAT THEY 
 FALL BACKWARD NOT BOUBLE STEP FORWARDS! Also there are huge flamethrower and machinegunner zombies 
 ubersoliidiers and mortar soldier which ALWAYS hit the character YOU control the game it self has 
 no tactics and some more enemies will be some flying crap that throw spikes at you and and give 
 you a red injured screen and legionares in roman years that got a shield that is bulletprooff with 
 any kind of weapon and there is no way to hit them they just trow a spear from ten thousan miles 
 cause a lot of damage and never miss hey have you guys palyed painkilller its a more propery kind 
 of enemy facing without re4 crap, also i try to move behind and hide behind a wall and every time 
 i was leaving cover to take enemies from behind they turn around like they knew i was there! Another 
 thing will be the falmetrower and exploding enemies that the game uses behind corners to kill you 
 right away which is not scary but is lame and dumb and every time you get in a room one thing happens 
 enemies start to spawn useally the same type eg explosive ones you guys feel screwed, hmm why? 
 if you read the above you ll figure out and squad menber are falling fast since they cant slow 
 them down and you gotta keep healing every incapacited squad member so you dont all turn dead! 
 DUMB!!!!! LAME!!!! alos the levels are very short small and undetailed and very lame they just 
 filled with monsters that respawn which is dumb and way too short unlike gamespot said the loading 
 times aint long there short! the game it self isnt scary at all and the squad mambers are dying 
 right away they cant take nay damage the weapon are very weak they dont cause aany damage no matter 
 which one you use and the moving speed is ultra slow there is no run button so strafiing like painkiller 
 will do no good you move very slow however the forwad button is a little faster so you might wanna 
 run away or use it to move faster and eventually bumb on enemies and get pawned why dont you move 
 backwards while thye attack? because the speed is very slow!
  
  I go nothing against the game its just very dissapointing and the entire game and the way you proggress 
 is bah.... i just like the idea and didnt even score as good to me so if you dont like it try undying! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dgsag
Rating: 7.5
Date: Apr 25, 2008 9:38 pm PT
Review:  Read full review and score breakdown here:
  http://www. poland. us/strona,33,2384,0. html
  
  Many know Clive Barker for his over-the-top horror novels filled with violence and gothic-like 
 dread. The games based off his works have been decent but not anything spectacular. Jericho follows 
 that trend.
  
  Jericho covers the story of a special ops squad who are in search of a mythic being called the 
 firstborn. Apparently, before God created Adam and Eve, his first attempt was the firstborn. It 
 seems that there were several, rather large problems with this being and he ended up being locked 
 up in an alternate reality. Every few milllennia or so, the firstborn attempts to escape. This 
 is the focus of Jericho, the elite special ops unit built specifically to protect the world from 
 the firstborn's return. While the plot does end up visiting some interesting locales and time periods, 
 it is really one dimensional. The game ends in a cliffhanger which frustrates, as do most cliffhangers 
 nowadays.
  
  The atmosphere provided by the game is quite immersive, providing a sense of doom. The eras, including 
 World War II and Sumeria, are converted into areas permeating a horrific atmosphere. The architecture 
 is brooding and imposing, shadowed corners look like they could harbor something truly sinister, 
 and soft ambient lighting brings it all together to make for a cohesive look. The sound design 
 is done pretty well, with a light soundtrack and small sound effects such as water droplets rounding 
 out the brooding atmosphere.
  
  Playing as Ross, the squad leader who gets killed in the first few minutes of the game, you're 
 introduced to one of the game's interesting gameplay mechanics. Somehow, your spirit survives and 
 continues to accompany your squad. This allows you to quickly "switch" to other team members. This 
 is important since each one of your characters has different characteristics, weapons, and special 
 abilities that can be used in different circumstances. Some individual powers include the ability 
 to slow down time, to set foes on fire, or to paralyze enemies with a "cloud" of blood.
  
  You'll start to get irritated as you're introduced to larger and larger combat situations. Your 
 squad has a tendency to die, very quickly. While you might have some simple squad commands such 
 as fall back, stay behind and move to a specific location; they don't help much when the squadmembers 
 are too dimwitted to fight effectively. Most may attribute this to the level design, since it seems 
 like the AI would perform better in more wide-open circumstances, as it often takes cover and supports 
 other members. This is useless with the majority of levels, as they're designed as narrow, constricting 
 corridors where the AI can't effectively use these actions.
  
  The enemies are another part of Jericho that just don't live up to the hype. While most are typical 
 shooter fare with standard AI designed to overwhelm players with speed and numbers, Jericho incorporates 
 several enemies which are simply annoying in their execution. One type of enemy, which explodes 
 upon death, particularly comes to mind. Given the game's tiny levels and your squad's tendency 
 to die, it really is irritating to see one of these lumber up to your position and take out your 
 entire squad in one blast.
  
  But Jericho is not all bad. Oh, no, there are several moments where Jericho's untapped potential 
 shines through. Several scenes, mostly taking place during boss fights or in arenas, are filled 
 with some tense shooting action. If Jericho included more of these in its eight-hour campaign, 
 the game would have felt greatly improved.
  
  It's important to note, that while it sports the Clive Barker name, the game is not scary in the 
 literal sense of the word. It is, however, extremely dark and atmospheric. And this atmosphere 
 is what Jericho does best. While the rest of the game is not quite up to snuff, it remains a competent 
 entry into the shooter market. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: the_hunger
Rating: 7.5
Date: Apr 13, 2008 9:55 am PT
Review:  I greatly anticipated this game, since I had enjoyed Clive Barker's Undying a few years ago. Similar 
 to many others, the mediocre reviews scared me away when Jericho was initially released. Still, 
 after waiting for the price to drop to less than $20, I picked it up. For that cost, I am not disappointed 
 at all. This is a fun, team-based shooter with a great story, beautiful graphics, and some interesting 
 gameplay dynamics. The game does have its annoyances, but overall I found it to be 15+ hours of 
 solid entertainment.
  
  Gameplay: The story is pretty good. In a nutshell, you and your team (Jericho) are out to defeat 
 the Firstborn, God's initial, botched attempt at creating a being in his own image. You'll be traveling 
 with your team through caves, coliseums, battlefields, underground dungeons, and so forth fighting 
 off various abominations. The real interesting thing here is the team-based fighting that allows 
 you to jump between team members and use their weapons and special abilities. It works pretty well, 
 and you will probably have 1 or 2 favorites after a while (the sniper girl was my favorite) . Team 
 mate AI is decent, but not stellar. You will often find yourself running between fallen squad members 
 to revive them during the tougher fights. However, pathfinding is quite good, and Jericho members 
 know how to use cover, scout, etc. 
  
  The gist of the game is simply blasting monsters, which is both the game's major strength and weakness. 
 On the positive side, the weapons are very satisfying to use, as are the special abilities. On 
 the negative side, the fact that you have so much firepower at your disposal makes the game anything 
 but scary. Only on occasions when you have to do part of a mission with only 1 or 2 squad members 
 does the game produce a good amount of tension. Like Resident Evil 4, there are a few quick button-pressing 
 sequences that I found rather fun after a while, but some people may not like. There are not many 
 of them, and the average player should be able to get beyond them after 1-2 tries. The game is 
 pretty linear and you can't get lost, so there is no need for a minimap. Again, if you are looking 
 for a good scare here, you won't find many. However, the game does excel as a team-based shooter, 
 and Barker's subject matter is fresh enough.
  
  Graphics: Gorgeous game. A lot of attention was paid to detail, especially on monster and character 
 models. The environments look great as well. Sky textures are still not that good, but not nearly 
 as awful as those in Undying. The physics system adds a touch of realism to explosions and the 
 like. Please note: This game is not for the squeamish. Although it is not really a scary game, 
 there are A LOT of disturbing images, as one would expect in a Clive Barker product.
  
  Sound: Hit and miss. The music is generally appropriate and related to the action on the screen. 
 The Jericho members actually have well-rendered personalities and a lot of good (though often profane) 
 dialogue. However, you'll eventually get tired of repetitive acknowledgments like "Praise the Lord 
 and pass the ammunition!" The use of sound in the game does not quite live up to its full potential, 
 since there were many lost opportunities to really scare the pants off of players by using the 
 right sounds at the right time. However, there is really no big problem here.
  
  Documentation/Technical issues: The game comes with a decent manual. Jericho was released on multiple 
 platforms, but the PC version does not feel like a port. That is, the mouse and keyboard work well 
 as controls. I was pleased to find the game in such a well-polished state technically. I did not 
 experience a single crash, freeze, or hiccup. The game does have the checkpoint save system, which 
 I detest though the checkpoints were usually not far apart.
  
  Replayability/value: Although you can unlock certain minor things as you play, there is really 
 no reason to go through this game twice. When the story ends -- and it ends very abruptly, it really 
 is over. Given the team-based nature of the game, an online co-op mode would seem appropriate, 
 but this is strictly a single-player affair. If you are a fan of shooters or Clive Barker's work, 
 this is worth the current price of admission ($15-$20) .
  
  Pros:
  +Interesting and flexible team-based action
  +Great weapons and special abilities
  +Excellent 
 graphics
  +Decent sound and dialogue
  +Intriguing Clive Barker story
  +Polished and stable
  
  Cons:
  -Strictly linear with little replay value
  -Not really scary, 
 though some disturbing content
  -Some people will not like the quick-button mini-games
  -Checkpoint save system
  -Abrupt ending
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Akhenaton666
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 8, 2008 9:40 am PT
Review:  6.5??? No way, I'm sure codemasters didn't pay enough money to gamespot for this review.
  
  The game is just great, not to be scared, but is really fun and graphically great. I would like 
 to see more enemies variety and a harder level, but its ok. About the long loading times, I played 
 in an Pentium D, 1GB RAM DDR2 667Mhz and a BFG 7950GTOC and I didn't experience... The load ing 
 time is just right.
  You can consider the history weak if you are a religious fanatic, who doesn't want to hear about 
 another history not related with your beliefs.
  
  The only reason I gave a 9.5 it's just by the empty ending, 'cause I don't care about multiplayer 
 feature, I don't have enough time to be online just playing over and over again the same crap, 
 just by a rank who doesn't have a value in the life.
  
  No more words, just waiting for another game like this! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DerekKwok1
Rating: 2
Date: Mar 28, 2008 4:05 pm PT
Review:  This game is probably one of the worst I have ever played. The graphics are really good, but the 
 gameplay and everything else for that matter really stinks. You have access to six characters in 
 the story mode. When one of them dies, you can switch between the characters to revive them. No 
 problem right? WRONG! When you revive them, the animation takes so long that the character doing 
 the reviving gets killed after reviving a fallen team member. Then you are back to where you started. 
 The character's have pretty good guns, if only killing the monsters wouldn't waste 5 clips. The 
 monsters have so much health when compared to your characters that you can just run and take cover, 
 but before you crouch, you could be dead. You head shot the monsters, and still, five clips are 
 wasted on one enemy. The game also is poor during a transition from another character. It takes 
 so bloody long that that character could die right when you get to him. Please, do yourself a favor 
 and buy another game of better gameplay. Sure the graphics in Jericho are spectacular, but they 
 are decieving when you take a look at the gameplay. Buy a game like Call of Duty 4 or Gears of 
 War. They are far better than this game even graphics wise. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jervar1
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 28, 2008 12:43 pm PT
Review:  Bottom line... thus far, there are only a few games that are any good at all. Don't waste your time 
 or money buying older games. This game is much much better than most and after playing this you 
 will not be satisfied with anything less. So in other words, stick to the new games and forget 
 about the older ones. Be careful to check out the previews though because they will try to stick 
 a game in with the old crap and nobody should buy or accept that kind of stuff. I mean they should 
 be aware that we expect that when new games come out, they should be better not the same or worse, 
 right. It gets very easy to pick out the good ones from the cheesy ones and it gets very frustrating 
 buying them time after time and being dissatisfied. Bla, Bla, Bla, Bla, Bla, Bla... I highly recommend 
 this game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: geetarplayer174
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 19, 2008 4:04 pm PT
Review:  When I first got the demo for Clive Barker's Jericho I was amazed by the visuals. When I purchased 
 the game I felt satisfied with my purchase. Clive Barker's Jecicho is a great "horror" game with 
 a lot to offer. 
  
  The special powers of each member add some spice to the gameplay and if you get bored after beating 
 it you can try running through it with just using one of the characters, however this could get 
 a bit difficult with the sniper. 
  The firefights you get into are quite exciting although aren't that difficult considering most 
 of the time the enemies go after your comrades instead of you, so you can just take pot shots.
 
  
  Also all the talk about the enemies that explode when they die, and how they are a bother in close 
 quarters. These enemies are not all that difficult to deal with if you read the text on one of 
 the missions at the beginning of the game. If you shoot them in the yellow spots that will drop 
 them instantly, all it takes is some fine shooting.
  
  There are some weak points of the game though. Monster variety isn't really there and in my opinion 
 iron sites on the weapons wouldn't be a bad idea.
  
  All in all it is a great game and I would suggest it to any FPS player. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Methuselah6463
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 6, 2008 10:20 am PT
Review:  Ok I am a huge CLIVE BARKER Fan.. and very happy to say that the story for this game is REALLY COOL... 
 the monster in it are Right out of a hellraiser film.. and a pretty neat looking.. The heros have 
 there own personalitys which gets you into the story about as much as a horror film can... the graphics 
 for it are great... The game play can be a bit much .. espically if you die alot.. and have to ressurect 
 your body every 10 seconds or so... so that can become sort of a bug... I thought the concept of 
 playing as several heros instead of one was cool when i first heard about it and really I like 
 how they managed to put that into the game play.. The stages are very well built and make for some 
 good shooter scenes.. its a very dark game and really it didn't scare me... which was kinda disapoiting 
 but the action in it and the gore were done really well AS FAR as i can tell "being i am still 
 playing it" Some of the action scenes were a bit much ... where you have to press keys at serton 
 points but ... over all not to bad... fun in a puzzle sort of way.. LOTS Of action at points where 
 its like wow how the hell am i going to get out of this.... but with the write know how .. you manage 
 it... The game does give hints in the story parts as to how to get past some points.. so it works 
 out pretty good... over all not a bad first person shooter and i hope to see a second one of it 
 soon... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: VercettiTommyy
Rating: 5.5
Date: Feb 25, 2008 5:57 am PT
Review:  We all know who Clive Barker is. A horror novel writer. Even though I love horror books/films/games 
 ,I don't really like Clive Barker's opera, but there are exceptions such as the game Undying ,that 
 is & will be one of the best gaming experiences ever created. This game looked promising at first, I 
 was a bit sceptical but somewhat interested in how it will end up. 
  Well the story begins well. God seems to have fistly created some creatures that he had entraped 
 in an underground city,& in every historical age there have been Jericho teams, who had to kill 
 those creatures. But they failed. So your team has to go there & kill every monster. Helluva story, I 
 can't say... so...
  
  Story-3/10
  
  Of course, a Codemasters game surely has to have great graphics,& Jericho makes no exception. The 
 environment is very detailed, well textured & with cool effects & all. It's no Crysis, but still great. The 
 only thing wrong is the brownish theme in all the levels... it gets boring & it's not scary at all.
 
  
  Graphics-9/10
  
  The sound? Mediocre is the perfect word. Above mediocre, okay. Decent music, bad voice acting & abysmal 
 environmental effects.
  
  Sound-7/10
  
  Hmmm. Well, except having to kill all those monsters & the ex-Jericho members, there are some other 
 interesting & bad aspects. First of all you get to control every team member if you want,& they 
 are equipped quite different & have different special abilities. You won't get attached to any of 
 them, but I really liked the sniper ability that lets you control the bullet in its way so you can 
 change its trajectory & kill several creatures with it. But it's boring after a while.& the level 
 design is absolutely awful.
  
  Gameplay-7/10
  
  Maybe they thought that a game full of ugly monsters is a horror game. Well , it's not... There's 
 no feeling in this game, I don't know where I've gotta go, I just kill all the monsters I see without 
 even getting scared or feeling something special. In Call of Cthulhu-Dark Corners of the Earth, my 
 hands were cold & shaking on the mouse because of the atmosphere the game created & the fact that 
 it made me identify with Jack, the main character, even if there are few "ugly monsters" in the game. Here 
 is nothing like that, nothing special at all. Not even the atmosphere Serious Sam or Painkiller created.
 
  
  Atmosphere-2/10
  
  If you want a great Clive Barker horror game, play Undying. If you wanna try more top quality horror 
 games, than try Call of Cthulhu-Dark Corners of the Earth & Resident Evil 4. Leave Jericho be. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: uacagin
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 8, 2008 3:16 pm PT
Review:  When i first opened the game, i wasnt expecting much from it because of the reviews, they gave really 
 low points to the game and i thought that i would play it for at most 1 hour and close it, but as 
 soon as the game started i saw that the reviews were wrong. The game clearly was meant to be a horror 
 game but it turned out to be a first person shooter. I think thats really the only bad thing about 
 the game because, the graphics and the story are good, plus you can switch to any character you want 
 and all of them have unique talents that help you alot in this game. And unlike some bad shooter 
 your teammates dont just stand there, they use all of their unique talents and when a teammate is 
 down they always run and try to save him. One more good thing about the game is that you dont simply 
 die, when youre down your teammates come and cure you so you dont die that easily you only die if 
 all of the characters die... it would have been much more harder if you simply died and had to start 
 over again. But still i think that it would have been better if it had been a horror game because 
 of the great story... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MrPetit
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 7, 2008 3:12 am PT
Review:  It's been since HL:2 that I've enjoyed playing a shooter so much. At first I was a bit weary about 
 the unusual gameplay which mainly consists of constantly switching between team-mates and using 
 their paranormal powers against the enemy.
  
  So now I should begin with naming some downsides and highlights of the game and kind of balance 
 them against one another. But I can come up with so many highlights of this game and precisely 
 one downside. But first the highlights. 
  
  The game looks great and I think the atmosphere is exactly how Clive Barker wanted it to be. The 
 temples, streets and hallways you walk through are covered in blood and guts and if they aren't 
 they soon will be. Yeah, it has one giant cult feeling to it. Even if you don't like all those 
 disgusting things lying around you'll still like the settings and the buildings you walk through 
 simply because they look amazing. But that's to be expected of a game from 2007.
  
  The characters featured in this game are very interesting and they made me want to keep playing 
 the game. Because of their personalities, their own personal demons and their relations with the 
 rest of the team I felt I wanted them to succeed in their mission together, and not just shoot 
 baddies. 
  
  Now here's the downside. Mind that there's even more awesomeness in this game but it's boring to 
 keep praising. The ending sucks. It is obviously rushed and it doesn't give you the satisfaction 
 you expect when finishing a game. I'm not gonna go in detail so I won't spoil the fun but I was 
 really disappointed. 
  Still you should just play this game cause it's really good and the highlights clearly overrule 
 the one downside.
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: spiderman120988
Rating: 7
Date: Feb 2, 2008 10:40 pm PT
Review:  Coming into 2007, Clive Barker's Jericho had a reasonable amount of hype but was doomed to failure 
 compared to giants like Call of Duty 4, Crysis, and Bioshock competing for our attention. It's 
 even harder to recommend when you take into account the game's flaws. From the horror scribe that 
 brought you Hellraiser, Jericho tells the story of the Firstborn, a creation that disgusted God 
 so much, He banished it but the Firstborn would time and again breach into our world until 7 warriors 
 closed it. You lead a 7 man team called Jericho and are sent into an ancient city called Al-Khali 
 to close the breach made by the Firstborn. Without spoiling it, something happens that allows you 
 to take possession of the other 6 teammates. Now this is a pretty original idea; sadly, its Jericho's 
 ONLY original idea. Each member carries a different weapon and comes with 2 special abilities which 
 are pretty fun to use. Some of them freeze enemies in place or drain enemies health. Overall, the 
 powers are a nice collection. The graphics are pretty good but you can tell its a console-to-PC 
 port. It overuses a lot of bloom lighting and gaudy shaders to hide the low-resolution textures 
 but if you run it at a 1024*768 resolution, you shouldn't notice it too much. The sound is a mixed 
 bag with the voice actors delivering a lot of cheesy lines. The music is standard horror fare but 
 works to give the game atmosphere and tension. The two main problems with this game is the AI and 
 the level design. Now, there's a certain type of enemy that explodes on contact but the AI is so 
 brainless that it dives headfirst into these enemies and thus most battles will have you playing 
 medic a lot. The level design dates back to the early 1990's; its really linear, even more linear 
 then Call of Duty 4. You can't really escape the feeling that you're just being herded toward the 
 next battle. Also, the level design doesn't even allow your teammates to take proper cover, thus 
 leading you to once again play medic. So is it a bad game? Well, no because the shooting is fun 
 (though mindless) and the monster designs are imaginative. If you really are curious, just try 
 out the demo, and if you still really want to get the full game, wait for the price drops; it's 
 only good for about a week, two weeks tops, and then you'll never play again. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: blurrypixel
Rating: 8.5
Date: May 14, 2008 9:49 am PT
Review:  Clive Barker's Jericho
  
  What's to like:
  - Good story
  - Good characters
  - Great audio (voice overs and environmental)
  - Great combat mechanics
  - Great weapons
 
  - Awesome boss fights
  - Awesome show off moves
  - Superb graphics
  
  What you may not like:
  - Short (10 hours or so)
  - Linear
  - Not a mindless shooter
  - 
 Won't try to scare you
  - Gore, blood and flesh bits isn't for everyone
  - No save game (checkpoints system)
  - No epilogue
  
  
  Story - The first-born
  
  It's 
 a good story and will make you wonder a little. There is an anomaly in Al-Khali and your squad, 
 dealing with paranormal events, are asked to investigate the area and close whatever breach that 
 is causing it. Each member of your squad has a troubled background and, though a bit clichd for 
 some, a unique personality that will catch your attention.
  
  It will take you roughly 10 hours to go through the single player campaign. There is a fair amount 
 of in-game cinematics and while the end-fight requires slightly more thinking than your average 
 shooter, the actual ending will unfortunately leave you dumbfounded.
  
  
  Game - Horror but no suspense
  
  Though it has plenty of gore and you might be surprised once 
 or twice, Jericho is not a game that is constantly trying to scare you. So don't compare it to 
 Silent Hill or Resident Evil, or else you might get disappointed.
  
  Still, even if you are not expecting a thriller, why is it that some reviews gave it a 6.5 while 
 others, like me, gave it a higher score? Well, here's the main reason: this game looks like a mindless 
 shooter but it isn't. 
  
  Each monster has a specific weakness. If you can figure out what they are or pay attention to the 
 in-game tips, and exploit them, they will go down very quickly and will make Clive Barker's Jericho 
 really enjoyable.
  
  If you ignore them, you and your teammates will die constantly and you will be spending all your 
 time reviving others, making the whole experience extremely frustrating. So the key to enjoy Jericho 
 is to play smart.
  
  
  Combat - Use your teammates
  
  You move with your squad through out the game. You can order them around (stay / attack) and they 
 provide very good cover fire, but they die very easily too. Keeping them alive is key in Jericho 
 as they actually can kill the enemies but more importantly, they allow you to do whatever you want 
 while they distract (or take damage from) them.
  
  Not far into the game, the whole combat mechanics take a different turn than your usual FPS genre. 
 As referred above, you get the ability to take control of any member of your team in real-time.
 
  
  Among their powers (2 each) , you will be able to:
  - Hold monsters
  - Burn'em
  - Control a sniping bullet for up to 3 hits
  - Slow down time
  - And more
  
  So it will 
 be up to you to choose the proper class in different situations. Failing to do so will put your 
 whole squad at risk. For instance, in narrow areas, I was controlling the Ninja girl so that I 
 could hold the enemies in place and keep the fight under control. In more open areas, I was switching 
 to the Sniper girl.
  
  Also, the Ninja girl will be used occasionally to finish off some of the bigger monsters. It's 
 pretty show off and very satisfying. They are done through a mini-game where you just need to press 
 on the arrow keys when they show up on screen.
  
  
  Graphics
  
  Simply put, the graphics are Gorgeous. Sure, there is blood everywhere, but everything else is 
 also very well modeled and textured. The Arena is nothing short than Breathtaking and the characters 
 are very well modeled as well.
  
  
  Conclusion - A great game-movie
  
  It's a beautiful game that deserves a lot more love. Having played Bioshock, Crysis and Witcher 
 before this one, it should tell you that I'm comparing it against other great gems out there.
 
  
  This game is not as expensive as the others so it's good deal to buy or even to rent, and is totally 
 worth it.
  
  If only this game would have been longer, more open, and more forgiving on your teammates' AI, 
 it would have been *up there* with the best games in 2007.
  
  
  8.3/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: slemas
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 29, 2008 4:29 am PT
Review:  I like this game, becouse this game is not boring. A lot of different monsters, places and squad 
 abilitys. Its interesting when you can change squad members when you want it. Its not just a simple 
 first person shooter. I like music, story and designs of everything. I hope in future it will be 
 second part of this game and multiplayer online mode (i mean squad vs squad in online multiplayer 
 mode) and a little bit longer gameplay! This game just perfect to me. Best regards to Clive Barker 
 and Codemaster team from Emilis.
  
  P. S. Nicely done, keep going in same style and i will be first person who will preorder your second 
 creation offcourse if it will be horror game :) And i still hope it will be "Clive Barker's Jericho 
 2".
  
  My big brother like this game too and he won first place in fan site contest :)
  http://jericho. dee-london. com/ 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Oracleas
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 25, 2008 4:07 pm PT
Review:  Jericho is a great game. it's a game about a special forces unit called "Jericho", that was created 
 to fight supernatural anomalies.
  they all have special power, cool weapons, and a shady past.
  when you start the game, you pretty 
 much know what's gonna be happening for the rest of the game. but that's not necessarily a bad 
 thing.
  you have nice graphics, great gun play, and some nice powers to kick ass with.
  
  Now, gamespot said that the level design is poor for not offering huge levels.
  but, come on, 
 this is a special forces unit sent to fight some crazy monsters, it's not a full scale war. it 
 IS close quarters combat.
  the game works quite well as it is right now, without huge environments.
  you get a lot of enemies 
 thrown at you at once, lots of bullets fly around, and the close quarters make it more exciting.
 
  
  And the story is well written too, Clive Barker is a great horror writer.
  the Jericho squad are fighting to get to the Firstborn to kill him.
  by the time that happens, 
 you have already traveled across time and planes, and you do feel like the Jericho squad will never 
 be back to their time, their plane of existence.
  and while the endgame wasn't the best, it's a great start to a sequel.
  the story will evolve, 
 you will understand more about the Jericho squad, and you will want to help them get to their target.
 
  
  So all in all, i really enjoyed this game, i enjoyed the storyline, and i enjoyed the gameplay. 
 and i recommend it to everyone who likes a good sci-fi\horror story. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sepheronX
Rating: 6
Date: Jan 19, 2008 10:53 pm PT
Review:  This game had potential to it. With a writer such as Clive Barker to create and backup the story 
 to the game, what could go wrong?
  
  Imagination kind of struck hard on this one. As the idea of a first born (in this case, gods first 
 real creation before mankind alike) wreaking havoc on the world due to his imprisonment, a team 
 of super natural soldiers from the united states (go figure, this is were plot sort of fell) , goes 
 into Al Kali (believe it is the name) to pretty much clean up the area. Some evil jerk decides 
 to release the first born, become a monster, and then finally gets himself into crap (I am not 
 going to fully spoil it) , that just sort of makes the game jump around with him.
  
  Now, the characters. It is hard to actually say something about the characters, when they are all 
 annoying as hell, with little intelligent AI, and with backdrops that makes you yawn and say "wow, 
 how stupid". Not just that, but the dialog is broken too. I mean, near the end, an individual claims 
 to be an atheist.... How can you be an atheist after being chased by ghosts and demons from hell? 
 This brings me to the other point, the monsters.
  
  The monsters in this game are just so inconsistent. This just appear out of the ground or just 
 out in 1 by 1 numbers, for a semi long periods of time. So you got this wave of monsters coming 
 at you, and you sit in one spot for a bit and shoot them down. And if that is not bad enough, there 
 is a very limited range of monsters. Throughout the game, you will be facing the same darn monsters 
 over and over again. And the worst of them all are the exploding ones. Your allies either run up 
 to them, or stand there and let them come to them, they blow up, your allies are injured and you 
 are forced to heal him. This is consistent throughout the whole game.
  
  With limited monsters, limited weaponry, limited AI, and finally, limited patience for your stupid, 
 and utterly worthless lives you call comrades, you feel that this game had something too it, that 
 would make you think hard about and go to bed happy. But instead, you force yourself to play it 
 (after spending money to purchase or rent it) and then go to bed thinking "why did god really help 
 create a monstrosity such as this (and I am not talking about the first born) ?".
  
  My conclusion is; Go rent it first, if you want to enjoy the experience that isn't really here. 
 Then go online later, and send a nasty (yet coherent) letter to Clive Barker, and ask him what 
 the hell happened. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HAMODA
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 16, 2008 3:28 am PT
Review:  every so often I really disagree with the Gamespot editors and this is one of those times. I found 
 Jericho to be an exceptional game that went out on a limb in many respects to make this game different 
 from all the other shooters out there, and I think it did a great job. The idea of a squad based 
 shooter really put me off at first, but this game pulls it off, not making it difficult, but instead 
 giving the game depth and strategy. To make it simple you are the leader of a squad of supernatural 
 soldiers, you die, but you become able to possess any of the other people in your squad whenever 
 you like. The interface for this is simple and quick making it easy to jump from one character 
 to another. Each character has different weapons and special abilities you can use. There are six 
 characters that you can control, sometimes you are forced to use one or another, either to venture 
 alone, or because only they have the power to get you past a certain point. Other than that you 
 are free to use whomever you want. On flaw to the game is that only about three of the six characters, 
 at least for me, were worth using. Those were the sniper, the heavy weapons, and the swordsman. 
 Two of the other three were just sort of lame, and the other one was the only other person besides 
 yourself that could heal teammates, and being that people die a lot, you want two healers active 
 at all times. I found the level designs to be beautiful, and disgusting at the same time, they 
 were very cramped, but that forced you to be careful and use some skill to stay alive, it also 
 made it important to use a good character for the situation. I found many of the weapons and special 
 abilities very fun to use.
  The monsters you fight are no pushovers and it will take much of your skill and patience to dispatch 
 them, which can be more fun sometimes than truckloads of easy enemies.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: neomat
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 5, 2008 9:45 pm PT
Review:  Clive Barker's Jericho, a story of Captain Devin Ross who dies early, and is leader of the supernatural 
 team.... the game is really interesting, the storyline is impresive, graphics excellent, now other 
 thing that i like is with the wepaons and ammo.... you begin the game with all the weapons, u have 
 to be concentrated in killing nothing more, the ammo is recharged automatically. the powers of 
 each member of the team are so cool, you discover each power trough the game n r really fantastic
 
  the bad aspect is the duration of the game. and it dont have multiplayer maybe with that the game 
 will have more popularity
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: agustbestur
Rating: 6.5
Date: Dec 26, 2007 10:14 am PT
Review:  First of all, let's get one thing out of the way: Clive Barker's Jericho isn't a jump-out-of-your-seat 
 scary game. Yes, there might be enough blood to fill an Olympic swimming pool, rotting flesh galore 
 and some pretty hideous monsters but, if you pick up Jericho expecting a Silent Hill-style scare-fest, 
 then you're going to be disappointed. If, on the other hand, you want an unsettling all-action 
 shooter with a twisted plot and an innovative character-switching mechanic, then you'd better read 
 on
  
  Let's try and sum up Jericho's concept in a few simple sentences. Basically there's an evil chap 
 who's after a God-like creature called the Firstborn because it'll make him incredibly powerful. 
 So, a group of magic black ops soldiers known as the Jericho squad are called in to stop him. This 
 involves travelling through time, taking out bad guys from history - including Nazis, medieval 
 warriors and fat Roman emperors - in a race to get to the Firstborn and destroy it. Of course, 
 that's just the tip of the narrative iceberg - throughout the game there's a lot of story exposition, 
 which may be a problem for those that just want to dive in and start shooting things.
  
  That said, there's still plenty of action to be found in Jericho and this comes courtesy of the 
 game's character switching mechanic. You see, in the opening levels your character actually gets 
 killed, allowing him to possess other members of the squad, enabling you to control their actions 
 directly. Although this may look like a squad-based FPS, it's one of the only shooters where you 
 can instantly - and easily - choose which member of your team you want to control.
  It works extremely well and means you've got free reign on how you tackle enemy encounters. For 
 example, you can stand back on the sidelines sniping from afar, get up close and personal with 
 Church's wicked katana or mow enemies down with Delgado's mini-gun - the choice is yours. But whatever 
 style of gunplay you choose, the character switching makes for some intense action as you zip between 
 squaddies. Furthermore, there's no real weak link in the team and it's thrilling to have such a 
 varied range of firepower at your finger tips.
  
  What's more, you're forced to really use each character to their maximum potential because they 
 each have individual magical abilities, such as slowing down time, unleashing demons and shooting 
 out bloody tentacles. Brilliantly, they're absolutely integral to the gameplay and rather than 
 being a useless gimmick, they're vital additions to your armoury that you'll use time and again 
 to beef up your gunplay. In fact only Jones's astral projection ability - which enables him to 
 temporarily control enemies - is a bit pointless, used to pull levels and so forth, but one out 
 of six isn't bad.
  
  The best thing about these powers is the ability to combine multiple skills at once by character 
 switching. So you can latch onto an enemy using Church's blood tentacles, then jump to Jones and 
 down slow time, making it much easier to pump a stream of bullets into the now-trapped target. 
 This gives you awide variety of ways to overcome enemies and experimenting with different character 
 combinations is genuinely satisfying.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: sand-which
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 25, 2007 1:57 am PT
Review:  
  Clive Baker's Jericho
  
  'Jericho' Is a great horror game. But If you played Blood, Doom 1 to 3, F. E. A. R you'll like this. For 
 Me this game is one of the scariest game's ever. When I suggest this game to a another person I 
 always say 'Make sure you have an extra pair of pant's When you play '.
  
  Jericho's core gameplay consists of leading the game's eponymous seven-man team, allowing control 
 of all team members by jumping to each character during certain points in the game, through various 
 environments that have been warped by the Firstborn while fighting off a variety of twisted creatures. 
 The game also features several "survival events" where the player must press the corresponding 
 buttons or keys shown on screen in order to successfully survive.
  
  The game begins in the present day city of Al-Khali, where the team is ostensibly searching for 
 a recon squad of Swiss Guardsmen. However, the squad soon finds the Guardsmen dead and their bodies 
 horribly mutilated. As they venture further the horror awaits them as they carry out operation 
 godseal.
  
  
  Upon release, the game received poor reviews with an average critic rating of 66% for the Xbox 
 360 version, 61% for the PS3 and 64% for the PC at Game Rankings and 64%, 61% and 63% respectively 
 at Metacritic. While some reviewers praised the squad based system, elaborate storyline, and Clive 
 Barker's dark style, others criticized character AI, linear gameplay, and difficulty with certain 
 game mechanics. [4]
  On the game's style, Euro Gamer stated that "Clive Barker's contribution to the concept and narrative 
 direction of the game will certainly help get the attention of horror fans" while GameSpot noted 
 its "Gorgeously creepy visuals and sound".
  However, reviewers complained about the in-game mechanics. Among their criticisms were the poor 
 AI, whereby team mates would die often, requiring the player to heal them regularly. IGN stated 
 "If the Jericho members' intelligence level wasn't enough of a nuisance for you, there's the actual 
 shooting itself" with Game Informer concluding "If broken gameplay mechanics and community college 
 acting didn't weigh down the game, it might actually be worthwhile". Jolt Gaming commented that 
 the maps were too linear and close. 
  Jericho was denied a rating in Germany and subsequently banned
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: serious_sam1122
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 19, 2007 7:49 pm PT
Review:  Clive Barkers Jericho is an overzelous attempt to cash in on the famous horror writer by the name 
 of the title. It's overly ambitious story flattens out too soon and it's weak gameplay will have 
 gamer's quiting too soon. But, if the shortcomings can be overlooked, the game offers quite a few 
 thrills and a unique moment or two. Despite it's horror-action genre, it offers less scares than 
 attempts to gross you out.
  
  The story starts out with a "secret" government team of unique individuals with super powers of 
 sorts. They are called Jericho, and they are sent to the Middle East to quell the Firstborn, a 
 terrible creation that God created before Adam and Eve. The Firstborn is too powerful to destroy, 
 so Jericho must go in and seal the "box" he is trapped in. Despite a descent start to the story, 
 it doesn't hold too much of a flame as you progress. Jericho must jump through different time frames 
 to unlock the secret of stopping the Firstborn. It gets less and less interesting about the middle 
 of the game.
  
  The unique gameplay addition is the ability to control any of the 6 members of Jericho. The leader, 
 Ross, is killed early on but takes possession of any of his team mates bodies. Each team mate as 
 a unique weapon and power. Church is a ninja with an uzi-like weapon and a katana and has the ability 
 to cast a spell to stop enemies or ignite any enemy around. Black is a lesbian sniper that can 
 fire an explosive round, use telekenisis or control a "ghost' bullet. Delgado is a huge guy who's 
 arm is encased in a box that keeps a fire god in it. He can let the fire god out to ignite enemies 
 or use the fireshield to protect him from fire. He also has a chaingun and a large pistol. Cole 
 is a tech geek that can slow time, throw grenades and has a automatic rifle. Rowlings is a priest 
 that has two customizable pistols that have explosive rounds, scatter rounds or regular pistol 
 rounds. Lastly is Jones, who can use telekenisis and use an astral projection to solve puzzles. 
 He also has an automatic rifle that can shoot shotgun rounds.
  
  When used properly, the different members of Jericho can be used tactfiully. But the problem is 
 the game throws you in tight corridors too often and tosses a lot of bad guys at you at once, usually 
 ending in a lot of team mates getting killed, and you having to heal them. It is too repititous, 
 and can kill the gameplay. The game is also marred by too few unique enemies. You will find yourself 
 mowing down the same enemies in every level. The bosses are also boring, with none offering enough 
 of a challange. 
  
  The game aims to gross you out rather than scare you. with floors covered in flesh and blood and 
 body parts. The enemies are dismembered with their bowels hanging out. The voice acting is nice 
 though, with each character with his or her own personality. There is no multiplayer to speak of, 
 and with little replay value the game ends all too soon, and with a lackluster ending to boot. 
 This game may not hold a place in too many gamers hearts, but it can be done right. There is a 
 possibilty for a sequel, so maybe things can be done right the second time around. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FranKrig
Rating: 5
Date: Dec 15, 2007 6:07 am PT
Review:  Clive Barker made undying whits is a real horror game but did he really make this game ore did 
 he just never really play a op to date game, it seams like he specially did not play this one.
 
  Okay maybe he did design the few monsters plus the environments, but to say that he did design 
 the story would be too much ore just a shame, Why? There is simply non, only a few headlines and 
 some dialogue put in between tons of ugly teeny tough talk whom really only wold impresses the 
 kind who gain to be like I'm the fastest and best whit a imaginary gun but whit absolute no experience 
 ore reason to have one, WOW.
  
  A day in Spain by the yearly tomato chaos fight, would look more organised and make more fun, if 
 also not be a better storey. Jericho most of all just look and feels like a chaotic trowing around 
 whit black and red pixels in the game-play and on the screen. Not that the graphic design is not 
 some of the best I have ever seen until date, but I'm afraid it is only in the screen-shuts we'll 
 be able to see it because the game is so chaotic and stressed, I mean it's not only that the enemy 
 is flashing around the screen all the time but you the imaginary hero is uncontrolled changing 
 between one of the 4 main character all the time, it is when you're dying all the timer and this 
 without any order and logic. So when you're not running around giving first aid to your partners, 
 then your the partner who is dying and neat the first aid. What?!! dose this sound chaotic? Okay 
 then wait to you have the game, then you can play it your self, running around to give yourself 
 first aid just to die to do so, but the fine thing is you have 4 main character to do that whit 
 and no time to see where you're doing it, but it doesn't matter anyway the game is already finished 
 before you do understand what is going on anyways. Don't waste any money on this terrible Hell 
 racing concept!!! it is, If your not in to been the no brains unreal tournament whit tomatoes kind 
 of gamer LOL ;-) ) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: keymaster7
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 3, 2007 9:11 am PT
Review:  Clive Barker's Jericho, a horror First-Person Shooter game, the story-line is good and interesting, 
 the characters are unique, you can jump between team mates and use there specials, its quite awesome. 
 
  
  But the let down is that, the no new weapons, the graphics is ok but the lighting is really really 
 awful the main character (you) died (well i should say the body) , ot a lot of enemies, get quite 
 repetitive and difficult sometimes... but most of the time its easy since you have team mates that 
 help you out...
  
  Clive Barker's Jericho, this game is good but to tell the truth it is worst than i expected... what 
 a letdown
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: natasha8384
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 3, 2007 11:32 am PT
Review:  I think that various game review sites genuinely missed the good stuff in this game by not knowing 
 how to respond to something rather new -- an FPS horror game that's not too scary and not too strong 
 FPS game either.
  
  Obviously, like any other game, this game too has its weaknesses -- in this case: right at the 
 beginning, right at the end boss fight, and a slightly weaker FPS components.
  
  The weakness in the FPS parts is mostly due to some leftover auto-aim developed for consoles and 
 lack of a realistic aim mode that was replaced by a slight zoom mode on most weapons except the 
 sniper) . Sure thing, the beginning is a bit slow and maybe boring to some extent since you are 
 still trying to figure out the controls and the concept of the unique team play. Many people get 
 stuck at the initial survive event when you need to follow the arrows on the screen and climb up 
 to survive. IMO, that should be removed by a patch, since some systems with even a minor lag in 
 the singleplayer can't manage that successfully and many gamers who'd love this game quit at that 
 point. Also, the ending ... the last boss fight is uninspiring -- it almost looks like the developer 
 didn't know or ran out of imagination on how to finish this game appropriately. The hope here is 
 that the ending sets up a sequel for this game.
  
  However, the positives really outweigh a few negative points in this game. Jericho plays like a 
 movie. The main characters are well defined and right after somewhat slower beginning the game 
 gains its pace and becomes blast.
  
  The strongest two points of the game are its perfect sound and a very unique visual presentation. 
 Just looking at the credits you get the notion how much time these people invested and spent in 
 sound studios. Voices are great, battle sounds too and combined with its background ambient sounds 
 it does create a visceral impact on the player. The graphics are unique and high quality -- obviously 
 the proprietary MercurySteam engine is quite good. While there is a slight feeling of Doom 3-like 
 effect, this engine brings out creepiness without leaving you in the total darkness. Quite the 
 opposite -- while flashlight is used occasionally, the gory details are highly visible and highly 
 detailed. These guys smear blood and guts all over the place and make it look totally believable. 
 Instead of going for "scary", the developers achieved effect of provoking the sense of beauty and 
 disgust simultaneously. Required "bizarreness" is also present in large quantities and it successfully 
 shapes the final image of Jericho as a unique game indeed.
  
  The gameplay is also very much fun -- after maybe a few hours into the game, switching and taking 
 control of other characters' bodies becomes fun because each of them has some unique skill or "gift" 
 that you can (or in fact must) use. The only requirement here is to remember who is who, tho you'll 
 get on-screen tips too. Memorize who is, say, Billy or Simone, so you can quickly switch to that 
 character when required or when you wish to. The characters are listed by the last name on the 
 screen so sometimes is hard to remember who is who, but overall after a few hours of playing you'll 
 know them all. Talking about the characters -- this game has one of the best realistic human models 
 ever with a decent ragdoll physics.
  
  Overall, there is much more to like than to dislike in Jericho. The game is not for everybody and 
 if you feel repulsed by blood, gore and references to torture and bizarreness stay away from it. 
 Otherwise for others this game will be lots of fun. The game performs very well on mid to upper 
 end of 2007 PCs so it should be easily enjoyable from the performance aspect. The absence of manual 
 saves is a "no-no" for PC games, but at least here there are plenty of checkpoints. In retrospect, 
 too bad that the developer didn't spend maybe a few more months to perfect this game to its full 
 potential. However, having said that, the game has been judged too harshly for the quality and 
 fun it offers to many. Tho fun as a singleplayer, I also think that having an online multiplayer 
 co-op for this game would be such a great feature. 7.7/10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kroich
Rating: 6
Date: Dec 2, 2007 1:00 pm PT
Review:  Outstanding visuals and all, but scares shit and the story is very interesting at first, but broken... 
 Odd to see Clive Barker's name on the game title. 
  
  The scenario and the monsters lack some "paint" for an horror game, but for a "common FPS" it turned 
 out fine enough with the squad action and the character changing. 
  
  I didn't like the game at all, specially because of the lack of "horror juice" in it, although 
 I will admit that it's not that bad as I think it is.
  
  Alright, the nice of Jericho is the character change and spell and all that witchery blablabla... 
 I guess it's because I don't see that in many FPS... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JGAMBINO
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 29, 2007 4:28 am PT
Review:  If u like blood, and i mean literally rivers of blood, nonstop in your face, hard kicking shooting 
 action, and you also dig on cheesy horror movies, then this game was designed for you.
  
  First it is awesome to have so many characters to play with, you can switch between characters 
 in your team, since your characters dies and becomes a ghost, so u can enter inside the body of 
 every member of the team, then every team member has some kick ass weapon or magic ability, surely 
 you will like some more than others, there is a sniper, a sword, a machine gun, a submachine gun, 
 a pair of pistols, grenades, fire, u name it.
  
  The graphics are incredible (at least in the PC) , it uses the depth of field effect very well, 
 like u can see how the world is more detailed as u advance, then smoke and dust, i think they managed 
 to convey the sensation of being in this weird remote place on earth. The levels are not so complicated 
 or big, but for the combat they are satisfying, usually they are narrow which makes the combat 
 more crazy. 
  
  the sound is awesome, lots of fleshy sounds, like guts falling apart and blood, very cool.
  
 
  the controls are just perfect, everything is laid out well, u wont be confused for a second.
 
  
  also on the PC settings, it has something i think most games need, personally i have not seen it 
 before, and is that it allows u to use widescreen on a 4:3 resolution, like i can play on 800 x 
 600 and have widesreen, few games to day allows to do that, so my laptop which is not very powerful 
 can run the game smooth without stretching the image at low res. i think this is a major plus for 
 pc gamers, every game should follow the example.
  
  The enemies and bosses and tough even on easy, so u wont feel like an idiot for playing on easy, 
 the difficulty is well balanced.
  
  Do not expect some bioshock or Metal Gear super story, this stuff is cheesy, b horror. some dialogue 
 is funny some is funny for being bad (u know what i mean) , some 'sexist' jokes here and there, 
 which to be honest i chuckle for a second.
  
  
  so overall, i think the game has been underrated, i gave it a great, maybe iu think am exaggerating, 
 but i think the average review should be between good and great, nothing less.
  
  ps. Sorry for those who think like Clive Barker that games are art, personally i think they are 
 not, and they do not need to be art, they have had a word to describe them is GAME, to make them 
 art is not going to change how much i enjoy them. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DrUmFrEaX
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 29, 2007 4:02 am PT
Review:  Despite the bad grades this game has gotten, i went on and bought the game. First, let me start 
 of with the goods. This game is a visual treat, i mean, the graphics are top notch, and the sound 
 is extremely tripping. The action in the game is really SO much fun, with all the creatures surrounding 
 you, and all the squad shooting at them. It's really an experience, where you really feel the action 
 around you. And the best part is you can switch from a character to another, which gives the player 
 plenty of liberty, each character his own style.
  The AI is real good, making it hard for the player to really kill easily, the difficulty is well 
 studied.
  The story may be a bit complicated at times, but never takes out of the game's fun. The cinematics 
 are really cool, and there are even some "playable" cut scenes where you gotta hit the right directions. 
 
  I'd go and give you the bad parts, that would be me spending 7hrs straight playing the game, and 
 skippin my classes. 
  The surroundings of the game are so beautiful and macabric (if u dig that) , and if you love to 
 just shoot all over the place killing ugly creatures, then this is yor game. The fun never stops, 
 you're always doing something.
  Get the game, if u want total fun, get the game!!!
  DrUmFrEaK out.... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: alijib
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 28, 2007 2:55 am PT
Review:  My expectations for Clive Barker's Jericho were very high, and in start it seems to me that the 
 Game has lived to expectations, but after spending 2 hours with the game, i felt rather disappointed.
 
  From start to finish , you will be greeted by same textures and level designs, with lots of flesh 
 and blood scattered all over, which after an hour, seems to much to handle by sour eyes.
  Your weapons damage feels very less, even if the enemy is not that tough.
  Mechanics of possessing 
 you team mates for specific task is very refreshing and implemented very wisely, but lack of specific 
 puzzles keep you very unsatisfied.
  Graphics are of todays level with very good animations, but some times, you will see the glitches 
 where you teammates will be standing 1 feet above the ground.
  Special powers were again, used very sparingly, in fact, most of the time, it is you , who will 
 be using the special powers, as you dumb AI mates tend to forget that they have those powers.
 
  The biggest flaw is the auto save function, which is very much frustrating, cause your teammates 
 are very weak , and can be drop down by the enemies very fast, which lets you dare it with them 
 alone, and keeping in mind that your weapons are underpower, you are bound to die again and again 
 and the auto save function will put you back from the start.
  The Developers could have worked hard to give us a master piece, but in the end, it is just a black 
 sheep. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Chrelleboy
Rating: 5
Date: Nov 24, 2007 9:26 am PT
Review:  The graphics of the game is nice, scary and progressive - cool!
  
  but! the cool graphics and the fun gameplay lets you down when u after about 8 hours of gameplay 
 complete the game. u cant rly die at the last boss. and yea - the game has a nice touch, the touch 
 just aint long enough.
  
  So - if u want a good fun FPS game, dont go buy this one.
  Buy this game if u rly like zombies and u dont mind doin the same stages over and over again..
 
  
  Clive Barker had more luck with Hellraiser! so go buy that instead!
  
  Peace 
::::::

::::::
UserName: buttface1
Rating: 6.5
Date: Nov 22, 2007 4:11 pm PT
Review:  First of all...
  I'd wait untill this game got down to about 20 bucks before you go and buy it. Which shouldn't 
 be long. 
  Jericho was a fun and interesting game, sadly, all it has is campaign. Which like most FPS games 
 only lasts about 10 hours maybe even less. In my own personal opinion... this game could have rocks 
 alot of people with some multiplay putting in all the abilities the campaign had and editing them 
 a bit. But sadly it doesn't.
  The story is one worth listening to. A team of gifted soldiers who pretty much stop religious outbreaks 
 (Or something along those lines) that are down right weird. Apparently not even their own government 
 knows about them. The story pretty much takes place in modern time for the start about the Firstborn 
 God made and how he made it to powerful, his first creation, and had to lock it away. And over 
 centuries and what not it got jealous of how God blessed everything else and so on so now it's 
 p*ssed and out for revenge against humanity. 
  If you're looking for a glorifying game that consists of just shooting crazy monster things with 
 some squad play, this is for you. Sadly, the whole squad thing does not make this game tactical 
 at all. The levels are pretty lenear and you rarely ever have to command your squad. The AI could 
 use some work, with your team dying alot and all. And instead of getting a choice of various weapons 
 you get a choice of your squadron who you can switch around characters for their weapons and powers. 
 
  The powers are really fun when it comes to a tough fight and the shooting 1 thousand things in 
 one area can be pretty cool. But like I said, it's a pretty no brainer FPS. 
  If you're looking for something to replace your Doom 3 lust or RE NEED for the scare thing. This 
 isn't it. The game wasn't really meant to scare you, no jumpy parts. Though the whole atmosphere 
 is pretty creepy, you can always see something coming. 
  Interaction is pretty cool, like sequences of pressing A, S, W, D when an enemy grabs you or if you 
 fall in a whole or to and you need to get out. 
  But like I said... the fun time only lasts for 5-10 hours and doesn't seem very replayable. Wait 
 for the price to drop then get it. And if none of the above seems appealing to you, let it go. 
 This game isn't worth what it's worth right now ( Frikin 40 bucks a waiste..-_- which is pretty 
 cheap compared to how much new games are, but if you get this game and play through you'll understand) . 
 
  The dificulty can range from easy as pie to hard as the place we're all trying to avoid. I think 
 gamespot got this score just right.
  NEEDS MULTIPLAY! Would have made this game so much better. :-/ And longer lasting, now it's going 
 in my closet untill I'm bored out of my mind someday and decide to play through a few levels of 
 it just to blow some heads off of cultist like enemies. :D 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lorddessan91
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 18, 2007 9:00 am PT
Review:  That game is good and in the same time is boring... The graphics and the sound are actually very 
 good, but something is not right, let's find out what, shall we:) Now, the first and the most awful 
 thing is the level design... in the first part of the game I was, like, walking in a same path, the 
 corridors were same, that really bad level design makes main problem, like that, there is no space 
 to move, and that made the game hard in some places. In the beginning I was very shocked how is possible 
 in a team shooter to be the team so stupid... But the reason was in the level, the team mates are 
 smart bud of course you do the dirty job... The other bad thing in the game was the jump... there 
 is no jump... WHAT... can it be e shooter without jump, well that really sucks... But however I enjoyed 
 shooting at the enemies. I have to say that this game has something original... It was very uninteresting 
 at some point, but the mix between the guns and the magic spells is very good, and that's very nice 
 actually... As I said, I enjoyed shooting and casting spells, the weapons were very good, but there 
 was something that makes that game another f*cked up good ambition and idea... :) But that doesn't 
 make it bad, if you are a FPS-fan (like me) and you want to shoot at demons and save the world in 
 somekind of original way then that's a game that you should definitly play... but when you get to 
 the end you we'll be very dissapointed, I've never seen more stupid and awful ending :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Fallschirm1
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 18, 2007 7:11 am PT
Review:  When you mix Silent Hill with Call of Duty this is might what you get. All the bloodsplasing, violence, 
 gun fights and all the other things that makes killing fun is inn her, but some level designers 
 went probably to Hawaii or something because some levels are awesome but others are dull. But anyway, 
 i like the creepy and intense firefights! If you like bloody violence and half scary themes this 
 is probably something for you. I had no problems running the game on my pc with everything on, 
 very stabel game.
  But if you standing trying to select a title like this one and havn't had a chance to try "the 
 Darkness" buy that one fiirst ;-) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: davuvniker
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 17, 2007 8:08 pm PT
Review:  the game it self its quite good, some or almost all reviews complain about the maps but i believe 
 its quite good to have close encounters cuz its harder and more in your face for fast paced action, 
 you really need to think and understand how to use youre team quickly, i myself im an experienced 
 player since doom 1 to GRAW also Unreal and ghost recon 1 (as addictive as it gets) and i can say 
 that maybe the first person shooters now days are more open or what ever but the theme of this 
 game its exactly the opposite for obvious reasons to scare the s**t out of you, some people complain 
 also about how hard it was to kill some exploding monsters and that was out of proportion and uneven 
 (i dont remember the word im not from usa btw) and that is maybe because they didnt realize that 
 all monsters have weak points that help A LOT when you re overrun (always xd) i wont say how but 
 i sugest you use all the powers and weapons the team has because they can be quite helpful all 
 of them, except for jones :P, again the sound, music and image quality its excelent, the only thing 
 that i really really didnt like was the time rawlings revives people i agree, its faster with ross, 
 other thing is that jones is there only to fill space cuz his ability is very limited to special 
 trigger secuences, and maybe didnt like also but not HATE is the ending cuz its a little abrupt 
 and you expect to see more, maybe they left room for a sequel but with this level of bad reviewing 
 i doubt it, also this feels like a first person scary movie cuz it has a lot of script and with 
 the animations makes you feel like part of a movie wich i think its quite cool, well i guess thats 
 all, thanks for reading 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Aoki_squared
Rating: 5
Date: Nov 16, 2007 4:40 pm PT
Review:  Incredibly linear, story-driven FPS. The proprietary engine looks and runs good, but certain things 
 make it feel constricting -- like the lack of a jump key and loads of invisible barriers. Enemies 
 are varied enough and there are a number of characters in your squad to play as, but the game quickly 
 begins to feel like the same thing over and over. The demo was fun, but the game is essentially 
 playing the demo over and over. Enemies spawn over and over as you kill them and you have to constantly 
 revive your stupid team mates. You must play as certain characters at certain times, because the 
 AI is incapable of choosing different strategies when fighting different enemies. If you're not 
 into Clive Barker's stories/monsters, you may as well pass over this one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: trickcdr
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 15, 2007 8:30 pm PT
Review:  I play alot of games, but finish very few. Loved Bioshock, Call of Duty 4, Half-life 2 Episode 
 1 & 2, Company of Heroes etc. Jericho stands out in recent memory as one of the few games I just 
 could not stop playing. I would look at the time and be like "Oh no! I have to work in the morning 
 and it's 3am!"...
  
  And then I would be like "Ok, I just want to see the next level..." :)
  
  A 6.5 rating is a 
 crime. A 9.5 for Crysis (which I uninstalled after 2 hours of boredom) is a crime.
  
  If you get the opportunity, play this game, I have turned on a couple of gamers to this game and 
 their response was "Insane fun" and "Can't stop playing".
  
  Graphics are unique and have a nice depth of field. Being able to jump character to character adds 
 replay value as I plan to play the game all over again but this time I will refrain from using 
 the same characters which should add some difficulty.
  
  Battles are insane with chaotic but fun carnage everywhere. This is one of those games where you 
 are leaning in your chair left, right, forward and back as you try to outrun, avoid, revive, and 
 destory all at the same time.
  
  Play it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bagman34
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 15, 2007 6:41 pm PT
Review:  Don't believe the hype, every so often I really disagree with the Gamespot editors and this is 
 one of those times. I found Jericho to be an exceptional game that went out on a limb in many respects 
 to make this game different from all the other shooters out there, and I think it did a great job. 
 The idea of a squad based shooter really put me off at first, but this game pulls it off, not making 
 it difficult, but instead giving the game depth and strategy. To make it simple you are the leader 
 of a squad of supernatural soldiers, you die, but you become able to possess any of the other people 
 in your squad whenever you like. The interface for this is simple and quick making it easy to jump 
 from one character to another. Each character has different weapons and special abilities you can 
 use. There are six characters that you can control, sometimes you are forced to use one or another, 
 either to venture alone, or because only they have the power to get you past a certain point. Other 
 than that you are free to use whomever you want. On flaw to the game is that only about three of 
 the six characters, at least for me, were worth using. Those were the sniper, the heavy weapons, 
 and the swordsman. Two of the other three were just sort of lame, and the other one was the only 
 other person besides yourself that could heal teammates, and being that people die a lot, you want 
 two healers active at all times. I found the level designs to be beautiful, and disgusting at the 
 same time, they were very cramped, but that forced you to be careful and use some skill to stay 
 alive, it also made it important to use a good character for the situation. I found many of the 
 weapons and special abilities very fun to use.
  The monsters you fight are no pushovers and it will take much of your skill and patience to dispatch 
 them, which can be more fun sometimes than truckloads of easy enemies.
  
  !!!!!! I also never had a problem with load times, I don't know what kind of system Gamespot used, 
 but my levels loaded quickly!!!!!!! 
  
  I will also admit that the ending was a bit abrupt, but other than that I found the storyline to 
 be very good and kept me moving though the game quite well. I don't know why we expect a Nobel 
 prize winning plot for a video game, I'm playing so I can shoot things, a good story is a bonus, 
 and this story was good enough. I believe that this is a worthy game for any shooter fan to play 
 if your looking for a bloodbath in Clive Barker style, attached to an innovative shooter. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dark_being
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 15, 2007 4:06 pm PT
Review:  "Clive Baker's Jericho" is a horror action packed game, with some really smooth visuals and an 
 inspiring story-arch the takes you for morbid ride through some of the darkest times in man-kind 
 history.
  You play as Captain Devin Ross, the leader of the Jericho team- a supernatural Special Forces unit, 
 on a rescue mission in the mysterious city of Al-Khali, somewhere in the Middle East. After finding 
 the mutilated bodies of those you were sent to rescue, the mission objectives quickly turn to containment. 
 With the other 6 members of Jericho team, you venture deeper and deeper into Al-Khali and into 
 the "Box", the ancient prison of God's first attempt in creating life- the firstborn.
  
  "Jericho's story sounds promising, and most of the time the game delivers intense action and gory 
 battles with the many (many) enemies you encounter. There are some very few breaks from the action 
 with an attempt of weave some puzzles-solving into the game, but those attempts feel half-hearted 
 and out-of-place.
  The story-arch is the main thing that'll keep you playing the game to the very end, and the argue 
 to seen the game through will help you get past some of the game's set-backs, such as insanely 
 difficult segments (mostly the part where you get separated from the rest of the group) and the 
 silly one-liners your fellow team-mates keep spewing at any given moment.
  
  Throughout the game you'll get to play as the different members of the Jericho squad. Apart from 
 Captain Ross, there are six more: Jones- a seer and a scholar; Cole- a reality-Hacker genius; Delgado- 
 heavy arms specialist and a Pyromencer (fire mage) ; Black- a telekinetic sniper; Rawlings- a holy 
 man and an occult specialist; and finally, Church- a blood mage and the stealthy one of the group. 
 Every one has its strengths and weaknesses, but after an hour into the game you'll probably find 
 your two or three favorite characters, and will stick with them through most of the game.
  
  The enemies in the game are a bit on the weak side. With no actual AI, most of them will storm 
 you in great numbers, while others will shoot at you from a distant. Your team's AI is slightly 
 better than the enemies; they take cover when possible, they work pretty much as team and most 
 of the time they do a good job supporting you in battle. On the other hand, there are times when 
 they charge blindly forward and you find yourself acting as a one-man hospital, trying to revive 
 them as fast as possible before being overwhelmed.
  Other then their faulty AI, the enemies can represent a challenge through the game, and some of 
 the boss-fights are really disturbing and even disgusting (in a good way) .
  
  The visuals in "Jericho" are pretty impressive. The environments are gory and the blood and filth 
 really fits into the general feel of the game. The character models are very different from one 
 another, and although some look better than the others, all of them are detailed and pleasant to 
 the eye. The game looks great on higher resolutions and there are not noticeable slow-downs throughout 
 the entire game. The graphics are not the peek of today's technology, but "Jericho" is still a 
 beautiful game, in a putrid kind of way;
  There are several moments in the game that will simply leave you in awe. The great Coliseum in 
 the roman period is simple amazing, visually.
  
  Every period or "time slices" as the game calls them, has a unique look to it, with unique enemy 
 designs, different backgrounds and different challenges to face. The best looking one is the roman 
 period, with great architecture and the best level and enemy designs. The other periods tend to 
 be more repetitive and bland in comparison, but there aren't any "ugly" levels; the only problem 
 with some of them is the lack of space to maneuver or explore. You could say "Jericho" is a bit 
 of a corridor-shooter at heart, but most of the time you will too immersed in the combat and the 
 story to notice.
  
  Sound-wise, "Jericho" is pretty standard, with some nice voice work from most of the cast, but 
 forgettable background music. I know music is not the most important part of any shooter, but it 
 could have been nice to hear some more memorable melodies and less of the annoying vocals that 
 seem to hunt you through the entire game.
  
  "Jericho" isn't a Love it or Hate it game. There are a lot of intense moments but there are a lot 
 of mediocre once as well, so when you play the game you mostly notice the better parts of the game 
 that shine through the mediocrity, and the flaws take a back sit to the excitement
  
  Speaking of which, "Jericho" has some very distinct flaws, but none of them is enough to ruin the 
 game experience. For once, the game is short, and can be finished in less than 10 hours. While 
 some people are fine with shorter games, other might feel a bit ripped off. Another minor flaw 
 is the loading time, which can reach up to a couple of minutes between levels.
  The only major flaw of the game is its ending. Jericho's story-arch is building up through the 
 entire game only to end with no real conclusion, robbing you of any sense of accomplishment and 
 satisfaction. It's too bad, really, because other-wise the game could have been great.
  
  So, if you are into horror-action games, and looking for something a bit different, with an emphasis 
 on atmosphere and story rather then on non-stop combat, and are willing to stomach a bit of disappointment 
 towards the end, in order the enjoy the bulk of the game, "Clive Barker's Jericho" is definitely 
 a game for you. So praise the lord and pass the ammunition! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Wrogun
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 13, 2007 7:36 pm PT
Review:  How could I put it.... It was fun, but it was only a short fun... :)
  
  I would like to say, that the review of Gamespot was really brutal and harsh, this game does not 
 deserve it. 6.5 is like giving Half Life 2 points of 7 or under... :) 
  
  The story line is very well-thought-out, you can see the signature of Clive Barker on every single 
 detail of the game. The monsters, the story, the feeling of being haunted, followed, watched make 
 the game not unique, but a terrifying one, of course not in the sense like Silent Hill or Resident 
 Evil, but in a way like no other FPS has done before (only maybe in Doom) .
  
  The game start is very rapid, you get down from the helicopter, take some steps, go into the city 
 and the action starts. Enemies are crawling from almost every corner of the map, and try to kill 
 you at the moment they appear. Of course, it was a bit boring, that enemies always crawl out or 
 materialize at the same spot. Bit boring, until those walking, two-legged suicide bombs started 
 to appear, which made a hell of a time for every squad member. They started falling like flys from 
 an insecticid spray. It would have been a disaster without the healing technique of the squad leader 
 and the priest guy (sorry, bad at remembering names :D ) . 
  
  The action started, you get used to it, fight for you and your teammates life, and, than get killed 
 by a monster. It is horrifying to see how you die, and then get locked into the body of one of 
 your comrades. Of course, it was first a bit frustrating, that like in school, you couldn't just 
 jump into everybody, you had to learn every skill one-by-one.... 
  
  Nevertheless, jumping from one character to the other is fun, and makes the game-play very innovative. 
 By using different skills, you can handle almost every situation in the game, except the walking 
 bombs of course. They are the hardest enemy in the game, non of my teammates have fallen so many 
 times, as they have attacked us. This is of course a bit tiresome and nerve-recking, because you 
 only have time to revive, but very little, to have fun in the shooting action. Although, if you 
 are good at shooting down the yellow balls from they skin, then you have fun until they stop coming. 
 The only thing that could have made the game more realistic at this part, was an the blowing up 
 effect, which could have at least scratched, or injured their own flesh hungry sword masters. 
 
  
  The boss fights were the best in the game, you had to use a lot of skills to kill them and not 
 only that of one team mate. The best of them was in the arena, which had a unique atmosphere. 
 
  
  The graphic is splendid, carefully designed characters and levels all over. Although some of the 
 enemies could have been more detailed, but that is not a negative part of the game. 
  
  Now down to the bad part. 
  
  1, I know, it is hard to make long games nowadays, but... I played 
 only 6 hours, and the game was over... Maybe I'm too fast, to good at FPS, but this is a too short 
 game for me. 
  
  2, The graphic design of the levels are good, but this one way tunnel system could have been done 
 a bit better. More space for cover, more space for strafing left or right, more space to get away 
 from the suicide bombs. All-in-all, just more space.
  
  3, The commands that you can give your team, are useless at some point. I say stay, but the moment 
 I get attacked, they are at the scene, and start getting into trouble by the suicide bombs. The 
 first thing they do, is to go into the front line, and start dying. They sometimes down't even 
 try to get away from those damn things. Although the AI is one of the best in the game I have seen, 
 except this. 
  
  4, The enemies appear from 1 or 2 spaces at a scene, which makes it easy to kill them except the 
 bombs. And it is funny to see my teammates standing on the materialization space, where they get 
 blown up by the bombs at the second they appear. 
  
  5, The final scene... Ohh the final scene.... I don't think (or cannot believe) , that Clive Barker 
 had to do anything whit that. First, two teammates die at the instance the firstborn appears... 
 Ok... they are not useful for the fighting sequence at the end... but blowing them into pieces 
 is not a solution, except, when it makes you more angrier at the opponent you have to face. When 
 it makes you. After that, the firstborn is such an easy enemy... Ok, he was easy for me I think, 
 because I've read a lot of forums, where everybody was screaming, "What the f*** should I do? Nothing 
 is working on him". I defeated him in less then 10 mins.... Only by using my head and skills of 
 the team. And after that comes the stupid part... Your prime enemy the firstborn gets carried away 
 from prime enemy number two... and then cut... nothing.... just the ocean.... I shook my head and 
 almost vomited at this part.... To end a story like this, is like killing the whole with one shoot. 
 It makes you feel, like you have slaughtered so many zombies and flesh hungry beasts for nothing, 
 but to see the firstborn fly away into the nothing... Like nothing happened... I even waited and 
 watched the credits, that maybe I get something after that... but no, not even a hinch... so unsatisfying. 
 
  
  6, The game could have explained more of the story. We only get information from the bosses, some 
 in game NP characters and the from the typings between two scenes loading. Although, I could not 
 read all of them because my computer was way faster, then the guy typing, and I preferred shooting 
 to waiting and reading :D: D: D
  
  
  All-in-all it is a good game, worth to be played by FPS fans, and I think it is unique in his way 
 of the game-play. It has some flaws, which could make the game boring or even worthless in somebody's 
 eyes, but not in mine :) Well done Clive Barker, just continue like this :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wildamnesia
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 13, 2007 2:39 am PT
Review:  I read the Gamespot review like everybody else and was put off buying this game. The demo was very 
 impressive but way too short to get a feel of the game properly. I decided to buy the game and 
 see for myself. I love first person shooters and I needed something to pass the time until Crysis 
 became available.
  
  What immediately impressed my about the game were the graphics which are amazing. The lighting 
 is very atmospheric and the character models are richly detailed. What also impressed me was the 
 absence of any unskippable cut scenes in the game. The story is told while you're still controlling 
 a character so if you get bored with what's going on you can still walk around (but you can't shoot 
 anything, your weapon is lowered) .
  
  The game is full of innovations - there are no med packs to collect, you start the game with all 
 weapons, you don't need to search for ammo because your weapons are automatically recharged - this 
 means you don't have to conserve your ammo and can concentrate on killing the emeny.
  
  The game is played with you as a member of a 6 squad team and for most of the game every member 
 of the squad will fight along side you. You only die in the game when every member of the squad 
 is dead and no one is left to revive you. During fierce firefights you'll find yourself fighting 
 the enemy AND reviving fallen teammates - it's very exciting stuff and adds a whole new dimension 
 to squad-based first person shooters.
  
  SPOILER: Early in the game your character will die and become a spirit that can jump from one team 
 member to another. This is an excellent game mechanic that allows you to control any other squad 
 member and their weapons at any time in the game. It's a superb feature that works very well in 
 the game.
  
  Gamespot mentioned that the environments are too restricted for combat and you always die with 
 exploding enemies - this is not the case. The environments are spacious enough for a 6 squad team 
 and the exploding enemies are easily dealt with with the right strategy (yes, you will use strategy 
 in this game) .
  
  This is probably the most exciting and intense first person shooter I've ever played (I've yet 
 to play COD 4 or Crysis) . It's a great leap forward for the genre and is full of wonderful ideas 
 that I hope will be used in other games.
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: dslyderink
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 13, 2007 2:11 am PT
Review:  Ok what drugs are the reviewers on?
  
  I am a harsh critic of games, they really have to show some form of innovation to win me over, 
 and Jericho is one of the most unique and entertaining experiences I have ever had.
  
  Graphically, this thing is cutting edge, in particular the cinematic nature of the presentation 
 - it really does feel as though you are INSIDE a movie. A few times I even felt motion sick with 
 the way the camera bobs and moves as your character walks, reloads, etc.
  
  The gameplay mechanics are innovative with the switching between squad members, and I can see how 
 that might put some "traditionalists" off the core mechanic, but once you get the hang of it, it 
 really shines and adds variety. You will probably get attached to the weapons/abilities of certain 
 members more than others, but the beauty is that in order to defeat the bosses (and let me tell 
 you the bossfights are GREAT) you have to understand every squad members powers.
  
  For those who say "this isn't scary or a horror" - RUBBISH - you will simply not find a game out 
 there that has this much blood, gore, creepy music, or horror themage. It's first class horror 
 - and not having a Fear-style BANG moment that makes you crap your pants doesn't nullify that. 
 The overall atmosphere oozes with demonic horror that is absolutely believable and enthralling.
 
  
  Difficulty actually surprised me - I played it through on Normal and found my team dead on many 
 occassions. This challenge was good though, but I'd be horrified as to how difficult it is on Hard.
 
  
  2 minor negatives for me were:
  
  1) Cheesy american script lines and humor. Really though, its prettymuch what you experience in 
 any Hollywood blockbuster, and if you just focus on the plot instead of their silly side-comments, 
 it won't be an issue.
  
  2) Level design homogony. Granted they could have put a bit more variety in the levels, but how 
 much variety can you give a broken down middle-eastern city in the middle of the desert? Of course 
 most of it will look and feel the same, so to mark the game down too heavily just based on this 
 is quite ignorant. It's like marking down Far Cry because "everything is just the same big jungle". 
 I mean come on.
  
  Music and sound - excellent too.
  
  All in all, this game sticks in my head as being MEMORABLE, something that makes me smile when 
 I think about it. It also makes me extremely glad to be a believer in the good spiritual forces 
 that protect me from such sheer and utter evil.
  
  Jericho, have an 8.5, you deserve it.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Domobomb_
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 12, 2007 4:42 pm PT
Review:  Good. Buy it.
  
  That's all I have to say.
  
  Good. Buy it.
  
  That's all I have to say.
  
  Good. Buy it.
  
  That's all I have to say.
  
  Good. Buy 
 it.
  
  That's all I have to say.
  
  Good. Buy it.
  
  That's all I have to say.
  
  Good. Buy it.
  
  That's all I have to say.
  
  Good. Buy it.
  
  That's all I have 
 to say.
  
  Good. Buy it.
  
  That's all I have to say.
  
  Good. Buy it.
  
  That's all I have to say.
  
  Good. Buy it.
  
  That's all I have to say.
  
  Good. Buy 
 it.
  
  That's all I have to say.
  
  Good. Buy it.
  
  That's all I have to say.
  
  Good. Buy it.
  
  That's all I have to say.
  
  Good. Buy it.
  
  That's all I have 
 to say.
  
  Good. Buy it.
  
  That's all I have to say.
  
  Good. Buy it.
  
  That's all I have to say.
  
  Good. Buy it.
  
  That's all I have to say.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Deschain
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 11, 2007 5:54 pm PT
Review:  I really enjoyed Clive Barker's Undying, and felt that it was a great, under appreciated game. 
 So when I first saw the ads fore Jericho I had hopes for a great game. Unfortunately, and perhaps 
 because it is coming out during one of the best seasons in video gaming history, it does not measure 
 up.
  
  The concept is great. Six different characters that you can take control of means a variety of 
 weapons and abilities are available from the start of the game. The problem is at the start you 
 don't get to spend enough time with the characters to truly understand their abilities. An optional 
 training area where you could walk each character through some specific challenges would have been 
 helpful. 
  
  The interactive sequences where certain keys need to be pushed is similar to Indigo Prophecy, but 
 not quite as complex. While not typical of an FPS, it is an acceptable mechanic.
  
  But as others have noted, the AI isn't great. The healer of the group (besides whoever you are 
 possessing) is frequently the first one to go down because he frequently puts himself at the front 
 of the battle. Since he can heal from a distance he should be trailing the group. Also, you're 
 often fighting in tight quarters and the group continually gets in each others way.
  
  Story-wise it is not as satisfying as Undying. If this game had come out in May-July, it might 
 have at least seemed more worthwhile. In the midst of Bioshock, Halo3, The Orange Box, etc. it 
 does not fair well. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nic4games
Rating: 6
Date: Nov 11, 2007 2:29 pm PT
Review:  We all know that Clive Barker is a great game creator of some horror games, but sad to say... he 
 made this game not a horror game. Even my 12 year old friend can play this game all by himself. 
 Ok, why you ask that this game is not a horror game? First, you play as a squad leader in a group 
 that means you have a companion on this horror game. The essence of horror games is being alone 
 even in the game. Second, the monsters are like copied from the game Silent Hill. I respect the 
 maker of this game but i was dissappointed by not scaring the shit from my sit. I even played past 
 midnight just to see if this game is really scary. I would liked to compare this game from other 
 PC Horror games but... i don't think that is a good idea. 
  
  If you guys are planning to buy this game, i won't stop you. To be fair, the game had really good 
 graphics. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Siavash_ps3
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 10, 2007 10:38 pm PT
Review:  I think clive barker is one of the most experienced writers in the world. The idea that tella about 
 a creature before Adam and Eve is not a common idea that comes to mind. I think i had waited along 
 time for this fantastic game and it worthed it. I think the people that loves the game with high 
 blood and gore are fewer than spoiled people loves Teen rated games. But try to play this game. you 
 may face poor level design, the story starts good but coulden't continue well. This game has a lot 
 of undiscovered potentials that creatures couldn't work on them well. The base of story is very 
 very very perfect and i hadn't hear it before. a sexless creature before Adam and Eve, my god it 
 is fantastic!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gamingprincess
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 9, 2007 7:58 pm PT
Review:  I found out about this game by accident. It was no accident that I totally found myself thinking 
 about it daily long after id stopped playing. I was so engrossed as to what was going to happen 
 next that i couldnt wait to get back to it. You are Capt Ross and command six commards in arms 
 named Jericho to fight and destroy a creature called the Firstborn, something that the lord started 
 didnt like how it was going and ditched it to an abys to just fester in its hate. over eons of 
 time the firstborn learned a few neat tricks on how to take peaces of our world each time it made 
 a move to escape. capturning soles and beings for its sick sole tormented pleasures. Being abandoned 
 and not really loved will do that. It takes the form of a Child. fitting as a newborn is what it 
 was when its maker cast it aside. You sort of feel sorry for it not its choosing to be so messed 
 up. Its surroundings display Blood on ancient ruin walls gore vomit and all the flesh of half eaten 
 beings, Winged creatures bent on killing Disformed mummys and vial blobs that when shot explode 
 in a rech of a mess. you travel through halls to some of its protectors all rather difficult and 
 gory to kill. I will say this not one creature or puzzle was easy. As The commards that you have 
 All have special talents. They come in handy poor Ross dies early into this (sort of dies) He can 
 now pop his sole into and out of the people hes fighting. Which is helpful if the one your traviling 
 in dies, or you need to use the talent ... im not tell you the talents have to leave something 
 .. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dmweekes
Rating: 3.5
Date: Nov 9, 2007 5:14 pm PT
Review:  A dark dark game with dark dark graphics that should be left at the back of a dark dark shelf...........
 
  Fine, I'll admit that is slightly unfair. The game is very pretty and the control system for the 
 most part holds up well. Characters that are coated in blood have a shiney gloss which actually 
 does make them look wet, or sort of like if I touched them...... they'd be sticky. Anyway I can't 
 really say I would recommend this to anyone. Infact if you're so bored you are actually considering 
 buying this then you should recomplete an old classic like Call of Duty 2 or failing that perhaps 
 consider going outside because you should only play games when it is worthwhile to do so. This 
 is not a tour de force of fun and story. It has little going for it, and I would never have given 
 it any time at all if I wasn't assured by a friend that it was great one boring afternoon sitting 
 around his house.
  If you would rather be playing a poor game than no game at all then you might want to RENT this 
 one. Or maybe if you love shooting sticky looking enemies and monotonous squad based shootery that 
 is about as much fun as brushing your teeth after eating cookies, only then should you even consider 
 this. Stay away!!!! If you buy this they might make a sequal and we really don't want that. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: biz_dude
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 8, 2007 6:18 pm PT
Review:  at 1st i tot this game is sucks. cuz the gamespot rating of this game like 6,5? so i never thought 
 of playing it.
  
  so after i play timeshift and then i try out this game. and it seems like pretty neat then **** 
 just that the comp of jericho team seems to be a stupid a bit the A. I.
  
  the enemy can explode but they never fall back or wait while they explode and only rush. they still 
 rushin and die, need to heal all da time -_- 
  
  sometimes they rush sometimes they just sit there and die LOL...
  
  but the game play is awesome. 
 timeshift suppose to be sucks then this game.
  
  and a bit scary too and the background sound not bad. pretty scary~
  
  awesome~ 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dreddlock907
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 8, 2007 4:30 am PT
Review:  Review of the PC VERSION of the game:
  
  Do you know Clive Barker? If not, here's a short rundown: He is a highly famous and acclaimed horror 
 author. Not enough? He already did a fairly good but very spooky video game called Clive Barker's 
 Undying . Still not enough? He must be one of the most twisted horror authors out there. Good? 
 Ok, then onto the game.
  
  Gameplay 8/10
  The game itself is actually pretty good. Imagine Doom 3 with grittier, bloodier monsters, outside 
 locations, a twisted storyline and AI controlled teammates.
  You form up as the Jericho squad, a sort of supernatural SWAT team - 7 (later 6) troopers with 
 special powers - a sort of warrior mage squad. This is probably the most extraordinary thing about 
 the whole game, next to the option of jumping between the squads characters. Each warrior has a 
 special power (fire shield, offensive fire spirit, healing squad members, reviving squad members, 
 ...) . This also makes everything about the game quite tactical, using a power, switching character 
 and using the next characters power to overcome the enemies.
  The enemies are not your typical cannon fodder - there are of course the suicidal kamikaze monsters, 
 close combat monsters and weapon wielding distance shooty monsters. What makes the variety are 
 the time zones you will travel through during the storyline - you will engage Nazi-zombie-monsters, 
 Nazi-psykers, crusade knights, etc etc. All the monsters are pretty scary and usually come at you 
 in a wave. After you have dealt with that wave the game will quicksave and you will move on to 
 meet the next wave. This may sound boring, but be assured, due to the various powers and combinations 
 it won't be.
  
  Graphics 8/10 The graphics are not bad, but let's be honest: most games have great graphics nowadays. 
 There are no really new and awesome effects to the game - rather a very clever use of quite simple 
 graphic details.
  Be it the flies that carry corpses away, be it dark shrouds that cover the Firstborn, be it the 
 age-old faces of the british troops or the way the screen reddens and shows veins when you are 
 hit.
  The magic effects are well executed and believable , the monsters look tough and wet - all in all 
 a solid graphic experience, but nothing spectacular.
  
  Sound 7/10 Sounds are pretty important for this game as it relies heavily on shock moments - be 
 prepared for spooky chanting, child voices and demon screams.
  Other than that the sound is good and solid, but nothing spectacular.
  
  Value 7/10 The Value 
 you get is quite good actually - lots of levels, different settings, timezones, weapons and characters 
 make this game vary a lot in feeling. It won't be the last game you'll ever buy, but it'll be a 
 fun game on the way there.
  
  Reviewer's Tilt 8/10
  Personally I find this game quite entertaining and somewhat addicitve. It has the notions of Rainbow 
 Six: Vegas, Doom 3 and Riddick: Escape from Butcher Bay mixed into something surprisingly entertaining.
 
  If you think you can get yourself to like a squad based horror shooter that's not really scary 
 nor tactical, then go for it and start blasting demons. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mayshouse
Rating: 1
Date: Nov 5, 2007 7:01 pm PT
Review:  The action seems like it will emerse you in an epic fantasy world full of monsters and spells and 
 blood and gore. WRONG ! The puzzles are inane and just used to stretch out gameplay. The puzzles 
 kill the action completely. If you can make past the Horrible save system.... ( we will save your 
 game when we xxxx feel like it and not before) you will find yourself killing same old 3 or 4 monsters 
 over and over (and over) . And no spoilers here, but the ending is the worst tripe I have ever seen 
 ! Could have flushed my money down the toilet and saved myself a headache. If you are debating 
 between spending money on this game or another, PLEASE PLEASE do yourself a favor and buy the other 
 game regardless of what it is.
  If you must buy this game try sticking it in a microwave before you play it, couldnt possibly hurt 
 this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Apekiller
Rating: 4
Date: Nov 6, 2007 3:39 pm PT
Review:  I awaited the release of the game for some time. Even played the demo and since I found it quite 
 nice, I decided to try the full game.
  
  Unfortunately, the game is not all it's cracked up to be.
  
  Graphics - excellent, quite the 
 eye candy
  Sound - very nice, but the voice acting needs improvement
  Atmosphere - catchy, realistic level designs; captivating story
  Gameplay - dull and repetitive, 
 a bit like Painkiller only worst
  Controls - easy to use but the mouse is choppy
  Save system - checkpoint based, no quicksave. If you die, you replay from the last checkpoint.
 
  
  You will encounter lots and lots of exploding monsters and find yourself in a tight spot as the 
 narrow corridors don't provide any running space (no place to run) . Most of the time you'll spend 
 healing your teammates while trying to kill the approaching (mostly exploding) enemies. They come 
 straight towards you, you have no place to run (barely to breath) and they explode when you kill 
 them, thus dealing you and your teammates a great deal of damage since you kill them in a close 
 proximity.
  
  The game is optimized well - no crash/freeze, runs smoothly with all details set on maximum and 
 has relatively short loading times.
  
  Overall, I give it a 4. I would have given it a 6 or maybe even 7 if not for those exploding monsters. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Paulk
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 5, 2007 11:36 am PT
Review:  There are many poor reviews for this game but I thoroughly enjoyed played it. I buy games for PC, 
 XBOX360 and my Playstation 3 but rarely do I complete a game unless it has a compelling story. 
 Jericho has that in Spades. I have read a couple of Clive barkers Books and they are interesting, 
 frightening and entertaining. He has brought the same magic to the screen with Jericho - the story 
 keeps you gripped.
  
  I like fps and I have they all for my PC (literally) and I feel that Jericho makes a welcome addition.
 
  
  Don't believe me try the demo for yourself and not only with you get a good feel for the game but 
 see just how gorgeous the graphics are too. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: steelocation
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 4, 2007 5:16 pm PT
Review:  Jericho's story line is interesting with a biblical twist but the game just falls short of being 
 a classic first person shooter (FPS) . There is not much in terms of interacting with the gothic 
 environment so you're just playing defensive like a death match trying to avoid getting hit without 
 worrying about the conditions of the environment. You can't jump (at least not in terms of an assigned 
 key) , grab objects to use against creatures or any objects for that matter, and they created a 
 safety mechanism so you can't fall off a cliff, stairs, etc. The game concentrates all of its energy 
 on you switching characters and using their special abilities. As long as one member survives, 
 you are really invincible. ***Spoiler next: all Jericho's characters have the ability to revive 
 each other. This makes no need for the clerical class*** Each level tries to educate you by making 
 you use one character to start but that's just it, you use that character just to pass or solve 
 a puzzle and then you will easily revert to your favorite character. It becomes a game that only 
 makes you use a character once or twice and the variety of characters is supposed to be the strength 
 of the game. The graphics and sounds are very fitting because it was released just before Halloween 
 and there are plenty of game play with that in mind. In short, Jericho is worth playing but it's 
 not a classic. There is room for a sequel so hopefully Codemasters will fix the game's gaming flaws. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jd1680a
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 4, 2007 2:59 pm PT
Review:  Jericho have gotten moderately low ratings from gamespot, ign, and pc gamer. There are alot of 
 pluses in Jericho that is worth mentioning for the value of this game that would make better then 
 it sounds from the media. Great storyline idea would have made a great monster killer game only 
 if the gameplay would have been better. This game is probably the most underappreicated game of 
 the year.
  
  You are Captain Devlin Ross, leader of supernatural strike force called Jericho. Cpt. Ross is able 
 to jump from person to person with in the squad during gameplay. Each of the six remaining members 
 of the squad have different weapons and abilities, for example one member is a reverend and have 
 the ability to heal, while another having a sniper rifle with a Jedi ability of pushing back monsters, 
 rocks, and walls. The storyline is based on you stopping the firstborn from escaping their prison. 
 The firstborn are God's first creations before Man. God didnt approve of his the firstborn and 
 panished them in another world. For the last 4,000 years the firstborn had a few escape attempts 
 that often failed. Now they are doing it again and you are here to stop them.
  
  Jericho battles remind me something from Painkiller. Throughout the entire game you will be hold 
 up in a room or corridor fighting off monsters. Players will end up staying in one spot killing 
 up to 20 monsters before moving on to the same thing. Within the battles you are able to switch 
 from any character you want, you could snipe, mow down with a chain gun, or shoot them with an 
 assault rifle. Just simpily holding down the space will give you the option of who you want to 
 be within the fights.
  
  Jericho is really a fantasy tactical shooter. The tactical part of the game is just like any other. 
 You can command the squad by using the number keys or the wheel mouse to have them hold, move them 
 to a spot you want, or have them hold. Its not really that hard, since the AI is pretty good in 
 holding its own. Good enough not to worry about constantly. Mercury Steam decided to use Unreal 
 Engine 3 in Jericho. While the engine in other games been proven solid in providing high frame 
 rates and friendly for lower end systems, in Jericho it is no difference. Unreal Engine 3 have 
 proven to have great graphics for this game, while staying right at 60 frames the whole time.
 
  
  Music in the game isnt constantly playing in the background. Like Half-Life 2 the music will kick 
 in only the big gun battles or boss fights. The music will turn off as soon as the battles end.
 
  
  While this game have alot of promise and it is quite fun at first, at the end I will start wonder 
 if there is more. Bigger levels and more types of monsters would have helped make this game satistying. 
 The storyline is very interesting on paper, but the gameplay needs some more help. Only if this 
 game had a little bit more work to add more substance it would have been much better.
  
  Within the main menu, you have the option of unlocking cheats. To activate the cheats you have 
 to call Codemasters using a 1-900 number costing $3 per minute. This is the number one thing I 
 dislike about Jericho. Where every other game that have cheats are normally free, while Codemasters 
 have the nerve to charge money. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: monowasp
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 4, 2007 2:18 pm PT
Review:  In gaming, much focus is spent on the visuals, because visuals create atmosphere, and atmosphere 
 in turn takes you there...
  
  I recently got a 24' big LCD screen, and when I first turned on this game I was sucked into the 
 atmosphere immediately. I play this game on a DirectX10 able system with all the graphic at top, 
 and I really got my reward...
  
  Up close the details are awesome, you see every dent in every stone, and lighting is great. At 
 a distance, you see things a bit blurry, like in real life, when you turn around fast, you feel 
 motion, when you walk, you feel like walking, running, you feel like running... And at every corner 
 things can attack you...
  
  Clive Barker has always been a good write, the time-jumps in this game is a great idea that needs 
 your imagination to be won over... Don't belive the words that this is a bad game with a bad ending... 
 Bad ending are as everything in this world, subjective...
  
  Walk into darkness if your dare... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bulldawg8879
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 4, 2007 1:02 pm PT
Review:  I would like to start out by saying that I do disagree with all the negative reviews that have 
 been comeing out for this game.. I had played the demo and thought it was pretty good so decided 
 to get the full game.. The game is a ton of fun, maybe moreso than alot of the higher reviewed 
 games.. It is basically a squad based FPS set in a world created by clive barker.. Its alot of running 
 and gunning as well.. The graphics on this game are some of the best I have seen in a game especially 
 on the enemy monsters and props in the enviroment.. They glisten with blood and gore and it looks 
 awesome.. This is exactly what you would expect a clive barker game to be like.. The gameplay is 
 very linear which can be a plus or minus.. This game is mainly about the fighting so I guess its 
 alright that its linear.. Each character in the game does have there uses except for problary Jones 
 and Rawlings which I only used when I was forced to.. Jones has the ability to possess enemies which 
 is only really used when its required, like one part need to posses a grenader to blow up a fuel 
 tank on the opposite side of a wall to blow it open.. My two favorite characters were problary 
 abigail black because she had the sniper rifle with the homeing bullet and the rocket launcher, 
 2nd would be Cole who has the ability to slow down time and has a standard machine gun and tosses 
 grenades which can be modified to impact, remote, regular.. In some parts of the game when you 
 are useing a single character, there are timed sequences of directional keys that need to be pressed, 
 like when climbing down a well, or fighting off a close range enemy.. I think it is very effective 
 the way it is done.. The sound effects in the game are great to and the voice acting is good although 
 alot of the lines can be cheesey but it is somewhat funny.. Overall I really liked this game, some 
 other people might disagree but I would definatley try it.. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hijks
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 4, 2007 5:14 am PT
Review:  As a FPS, this game has way too many shortcomings: weak weapons, linear levels full of narrow corridors, 
 etc. I thought about uninstalling it by the time I got into the underground base (of modern time!) .
 
  
  Yet, when I got to play more and more of the characters, and started thinking which power should 
 I use against different enemies or situations, the game became a lot more interesting. In some 
 of the tougher spots, it's a lot easier to get through with repeated use of certain powers. When 
 considering that aspect, I found the game became much more fun and got through to the end without 
 any more hesitation. Yeah, I wasn't shooting a lot of the times, but I was thinking about which 
 power to use to maximie the team's firepower. So again, a decent puzzle shooter, but not so nice 
 for a FPS.
  
  
  
  
  For example, Black's ghost bullet would be fine to use in earlier levels, but it becomes much less 
 effective against these Roman warriors. Then, I found previously uselss Jones to be particularly 
 helpful with long-range blood ward against these monsters. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: madglee
Rating: 5
Date: Nov 4, 2007 1:07 am PT
Review:  The first thing you notice is that the voice in the opening movie is laughable. The writing isn't 
 too bad, but the voice acting is so horrendous, I was thinking, Oh my god, why did I purchase this 
 game? 
  
  The levels are mainly tight and cramped, and very linear, except for a few levels that are a bit 
 more open. Still, the gameplay reminds me of an understated Serious Sam. Nothing ever jumps out 
 at you, not really, they basically spawn and run at you in hordes as you unload clip after clip 
 into them.
  
  This is somewhat pleasurable for a while but quickly becomes tedious, as does the run and revive 
 tactic which is always necessary. Gun some creatures down until a teammate or two falls, at which 
 point you run over and revive them. If you fall, they do the same for you. Only if every squad 
 member dies do you have to restart - and that will probably happen a few times; the game seems 
 to go from being relatively easy and boring to ridiculously difficult and boring, randomly.
  
  Every single boss encounter except one entails the boss somehow making himself invulnerable, 
 at which point you do something to remove the invulnerability, take some pot shots, rinse and repeat.
 
  
  And the story - I was sober the whole time but felt drunk, as it made no sense. Why am I warping 
 around from age to age? Who is this person that wants to eat me and why do I care? You never feel 
 like you're part of a story, you feel like you're grinding through level after level of monsters 
 to reach some revelation, but alas, it never comes.
  
  Without spoiling anything - after all, you are looking for the Firstborn - when you find this creature 
 and kill it, there is about 3 seconds of yelling Get out of here! and then a picture of the dawn 
 with the credits rolling. You're left thinking, Did Clive Barker lose his abilities to create a 
 scary game, much less story? Some say perhaps the game developers didn't translate it well; if 
 so, they seemed to do a much better job with Undying, and I even heard C. B. state this game would 
 be disturbing and he wouldn't produce anything less.
  
  Gore and violence with about 6 monster types minus the bosses does not equal disturbing or scary. 
 Don't buy this game; if the ending movie had at least been long and tied everything together it 
 would have been somewhat worthwhile, but as is, this game is TERRIBLE. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rshen10805
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 3, 2007 10:21 pm PT
Review:  PLUS: movie like atmosphere, switching characters at will, weapons, GRAPHICS.
  
  SO SO'S: Game becomes a doom like repetitiveness after the fad of playing the first few levels 
 goes away. Only a few types of monsters. Levels are also about the same look and feel (like a music 
 album with only a one hit song and the rest sounds the same)
  
  Conclusion: It's better than the obsolete garbage FPS of MOH Airborne, however not as good as Bioshock, 
 Crysis, COD. Storyline had a great setup, however the story goes nowhere after that.
  
  I thought the game atmosphere and the ability to switch team characters at will was pretty innovative. 
 However the team AI engine needs to improve. There's an attempt to be able to control your alpha 
 and omega teams to different waypoints however its about the same as sending the whole group to 
 the waypoint at once. Team control is quite retarded and no where near as effective as Rainbow 
 Six Las Vegas.
  
  If the game had some feedback on the objective of the level, varying goals and some refinement 
 in game flow I think Jericho can be a good hit.
  
  Overall, I agree with gamespot that it needs refinement however the game is still enjoyable compared 
 to the other B list games. It's a solid 8.0 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Star_Wars117
Rating: 5
Date: Nov 3, 2007 9:51 am PT
Review:  Clive barkers Jericho is a game set in a African city where a figure made by god has been stored. 
 You are a member of the Jericho squad a secret goverment agency made to stop Paranormal events. 
 Your squad all has magical powers. Your pretty much witches with guns. You progess thro the game 
 killing things and then killing some more things. Not much here. The game is short and boring. The 
 graphics are really good with detailed textures and good looking guns. The monsters are neat looking 
 also. The sound is good with realistic weapon sounds and voice acting is alright. Not the best 
 ive heard in a game but not the worst either. While the game gives some good entertainement value 
 the game is just to short and to boring after a while to give any good replayablity so this one 
 is a pass.
  
  The Good: Graphics and fun gameplay for a few minutes
  The Bad: Not that great voice acting, Way to short
  The Ugly: 40 dollars, No replayablity, no multiplayer. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: andrei18
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 3, 2007 3:46 am PT
Review:  It's a game that impresses on a visual scale and on the action, i don't agree with the gamespot 
 review because u can handle the game and your squad very welland they all have amazing abilities 
 if you know how to use them and when, it doesn't deserve the 6.5 that it received. It has 2 major 
 problems that could make the grade an 8 because it is to short, it finishes to sudden and because 
 of the lack of multiplayer, but the game itself is beautifull, the action, the atmosphere it creates 
 the intense gunfights or swordfights with Church are create a unique gameplay that i couldn't find 
 on a pc game for a long long time. The Boss fights are very cool, it's something that pc games 
 lacked before to, and the ps3 and xbox 360 have in abundence.
  So that's about it unique gameplay and atmosphere but a fishtail ending that leaves u wanting more 
 explanations, and the gameplay duration, i finished it in like a day, that's really a minus for 
 the game, but it's worth playing for it's originality, gameplay and unique grotesc level design... 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: -D3MO-
Rating: 4.5
Date: Nov 2, 2007 11:40 pm PT
Review:  Clive Barker's Jericho (PC) Review
  
  When this game was first announced I was hyped. The graphics looked amazing, the story looked interesting, 
 it seemed like a good game overall. When I got to play the demo on my 360 though all my hype died. 
 And now playing the final version of the game on my PC, leaves me asking what happened?
  
  PROS:
  
  + The graphics look great on high settings
  + The game has a freaky atmosphere
 
  + You can change who you play as, great feature
  + The AI is pretty good
  
  CONS:
  
  - The controls are horrible
  - The fights get repetitive quickly
  - Level design flat out sucks, 
 no place to hide, run, etc.
  - Many invisible walls.
  
  Overall this game should be a no-buy, no-rent.
  
  This game fails on too many levels to be 
 considered playable. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lawfrye
Rating: 6
Date: Nov 2, 2007 2:27 pm PT
Review:  Jericho proves once again that flashy visuals don't make a great game. Although the story could 
 have been very interesting and starts out that way it ultimately ends up going no where. The levels 
 are small and you can't help feeling cramped as you play them. Combat is also very uninspired, 
 to make a long story short the game is just blahhh!
  
  If you own a PC then don't even bother wasting your money on this one, however if you have a console 
 and really feel like wasting 6-7 dollars on the rental just send me the money instead... it 'll 
 get put to much better use! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Stalker700
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 14, 2007 3:50 pm PT
Review:  With hits like Crysis, Call Of Duty 4 are coming, it's pretty easy to miss other less hyped game 
 like Jericho, even though it's not a bad game at all..
  I'm pretty dissapointed at gamespot for giving this game an 6.5, while giving a SIMPSONS game a 
 7.0 "just for being funny at some parts", while itself being a boring and linear game....
  Jericho might not be Crysis, but it's a very decent shooter on it's own, with a decent story, interesting 
 characters, creepy and twisted enemies and sweet visuals...
  Graphics : 9
  Well, it's definetly not at the level of games like Crysis, or Call Of Duty 4, but the visuals are 
 sharp and creepy.
  The enviroment looks awesome and the blur effect at distant places looks really good. The monsters 
 are very nicely drawn, and they really looks twisted and animated. The gore level in this game is 
 simply... unimaginable, I've never seen a game that shows such cruelty ad gore... and for those who 
 love gore (like me) this is a good thing.
  Sound : 8
  The voice acting is really good, though the dialouge sucks at some spots (... OR I WILL EAT YOUR 
 SOUL!) , the insides jokes at some places are pretty funny, and the music is also decent, even though 
 there isn't a lot of it...
  Gameplay : 8
  The game plays and feels good, the controls are well balanced and easy to learn.
  Probably the 
 best thing about this game is the cinematic atmosphere of it. Those cinematic parts like when an 
 enemy jumps on you and you need to press the right buttons are really awesome. The possession part 
 is uniqee and fun, and learning the abilities and mastering them is not really hard as some people 
 say. The squad based parts are pretty good, though it's definitely not Rainbow Six Vegas.. and they 
 pretty much not doing anything since the enemies don't really hide or take cover (well.. some do, but 
 poorly) and just charge at you.
  There are some puzzles, though they're pretty easy and the answer to them is said to you by the 
 squad members...
  Though the levels are very short and linear, there's a lot of fun in this short and linear road.
 
  Value : 6
  Probably the worst thing about this game.
  It's very short, and the ending was terrible... probably the worst I've seen so far.
  Because the 
 game is linear, there isn't a lot of re-playability, so basically if you're one of those who like 
 to unlock things or complete the game again at a higher difficulty, you're pretty much done here...
 
  Overall : I don't thing that Jericho is trying to scare gamers, but to immerse them in it's cinematic 
 and rich atmosphere, which is done very good (if they wanted to scare you, they wouldn't make this 
 game a squad base shooter, but a solo shooter like Doom 3 or F. E. A. R)
  It's short and linear, but fun and adrenaline pumping all the way to the terrible end.... literally.
 
  To cut long story short, NEEDS A SEQUEL! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rammkopf
Rating: 5.5
Date: Nov 2, 2007 3:34 am PT
Review:  It would have been a great game if they gave the character a bit more freedom like jumping and 
 leaning. Instead it looks more like a horror-survivor combination of 'Counter-Strike' and 'Return 
 to Castle Wolfenstein'. A generally good idea of incorporating the RPG element - your soul can 
 jump from one character's body to another thus giving you direct control over all members of your 
 squad. But the downside is that it takes time until you remember everyone's names and abilities 
 when you're searching for the one with the skill you need. A good feature is that as magicians, 
 you can all heal each other when a comrade falls in battle and you die WAY after everyone else 
 has fallen and noone can heal them, so you have no available body to jump into and carry on with 
 the fight. Special abilities come very much in handy ... if you can jump to the right character 
 in the right time.
  
  Good graphics and nice motion blur when you're quickly looking around make it a pretty sight to 
 look at. Sound isn't bad too, but not rich enough. Game gets very hard at some spots, almost impossible. 
 AI does not shine with any excessive brains - both the enemy and you friends often get in a dummy 
 mode and simply do nothing.
  
  Haven't beaten the game yet, but so far it does not make up for all the hype around it. Worth playing, 
 but only if you feel like you MUST play every new title that comes out. If you're seeking for a 
 good quality shooter - that's not your choice. Definitely. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RattleSwamplord
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 1, 2007 4:44 pm PT
Review:  at the beginning the game looks boring although the great graphics because of the the same weapons 
 and creatures . But then when you advance in levels you're beginning to understand the playing 
 system and it's much different that we have never seen in fps games. You need to spend time on 
 this game to understand the differences. Especially magics makes the game so funny, it's a new 
 breathe for the genre. and definitely not that bad level designs like the gamespot said, some views 
 have to be seen, they provides a great atmosphere. ok maybe it won't make a big jump in fps games 
 like half like but definitely worth to be played and definitely underrated by gamespot. and never 
 compare with clive barker's undying. because this one has more action and it's all purpose is make 
 the player to have fun and it's goal hits from bullseye. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kuvze
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 1, 2007 11:59 am PT
Review:  when i heard about jericho and clive barkers name to it after a long time since undying came out, i 
 was thrilled to buy it. was dreaming of sitting in the dark and playing in darkness with just flashlights 
 on, but the game did not stand upto what was expected out of it.
  whats good? well.. amazing graphics and real good use of visuals to portray an old abandoned doomed 
 city. it felt real, great and balanced use of pc requirements to bring out the best performance. played 
 with all options on my geforce 8600gt with stunning visuals, bought me feel of playing a console 
 game with ease on a pc with lots of timed situation controls which is at times enjoyable and gives 
 enough adrenaline rush, good and new game play with a team and all playable characters, great weapons, good 
 new moves and not a bad soundtrack to bring the pulse beating..
  whats bad? hmm.. not a great storyline, not enough use of environments, characters are not balanced 
 in skills, horrible ending, not enough puzzles, no great boss battles, controls seemed slipping at 
 times, script appeared to be by-hearted and repeated often.
  altogether i should say it is an enjoyable game, not great, neither too bad, say half way between 
 the gutter and the stars.. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dmartinetti
Rating: 3
Date: Nov 1, 2007 10:07 am PT
Review:  I wanted to love this game, I really did. I am a HUGE Barker fan and when I first met the designers 
 behind this at Alchemic I was sure it was going to be a run away hit.
  
  something went terribly wrong though, the cool dialog I saw a year ago has been replaced with cheesy 
 one liners that are so old and so uncool to hear that you actually cringe sometimes when characters 
 speak.
  
  The workd is dark, super dark... dark to the point where even a flashlight doesn't help you in some 
 areas. and the gunplay for all its worth is really cheap most of the time. You can literally just 
 stand there and watch enemies run right to you. oh and you never run out of ammo... at least for 
 the 4 hours I played... I never did.
  
  I never finished the game so this is like a mini review. I want to but its become really painful 
 to get thru... so I think I am just going to go play the orange box or Bioshock again.
  
  maybe if there is a part two they can sort out some of the issues like poor design, bad animations 
 (the run anim is pretty lame) and gunplay that is really devoid of any fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Geminidevine
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 1, 2007 6:49 am PT
Review:  I would like to say that a 6.5 (Fair) rating is very poor to me. Don't blame Clive Barker but the 
 developers of the game. Like (Undying) , i think that the develpers on focused on the graphics instead 
 of gameplay they both should be in sync with one another. I do plan on getting this game to add 
 to my collection. I like the character designs, Clive Barker did a great job. Codemasters should 
 have spend more time for example tweaking the gameplay to make it enjoyable or the story of the 
 game. I looked at the rating on Gamespot and i was very shocked if not disappointed because it 
 deserves at least a 9.0 rating. But gamers will be the way they are, but i have to say Jericho 
 does look really good whether it's on 360, PC or PS3. I think that some gamers didn't really give 
 it time to grow on them because they are always looking for the next best thing and letting games 
 like Jericho past them by. And even though the game may have it's flaws this game is definitely 
 worth buying. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zakaweb
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jul 31, 2008 7:34 pm PT
Review:  This game is no where near as bad as some of the "professional" reviews it has gotten. Gamespot's 
 score is off. Maybe some of the things in this game have been done at some point in other games 
 but the presentation here is good and it is overall innovative. Just running around as a loner 
 blasting is getting to be boring, every other game is a FPS. Jericho feels different. There is 
 strategy in switching players with different abilities and using diffent weapons with a combination 
 of those abilities. The story is interesting and and well done.
  
  Graphics are very good and the game is optimized well which is refreshing if you don't have a powerful 
 computer. This game may not be scary, but at this point can any game be actually scary. I keep 
 reading this it's not scary business in games. I'm a grown up and have played a gazillion games. 
 Video games don't scare me any more.
  
  This a solid and enjoyable game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: John2121
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 1, 2007 4:25 am PT
Review:  I personally love the game because there's a lot gore a bit of humor here and there visuals are 
 great and story ive seen so far seams good as well gets a bit tight in the gun fights but hey its 
 why were playing it. What other game gives one the chance to posses a cool bad ass lesbian like 
 Abby or any off the other characters and there unique powers. Im only about half way trough the 
 game and im pretty happy so far that ive bought this game. Next ill get Time Shift it also looks 
 like a desent game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cccarrer
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 31, 2007 10:43 pm PT
Review:  This is a game that all FPS players should rent. It has so many bells and whistles, graphically, 
 you feel like you are in a movie. But feeling that cinematic touch is the beginning of the end 
 in this title.
  
  The thing with movies --- they are linear. This game takes that idea a little too seriously and 
 shoves 6 people in a line and throws enemies at them. Oh, and the enemies explode. The game is 
 great fun, but a testament to how levels should and should not be designed. This is a squad game 
 where a single character has trouble navigating a path -- and it's a no win situation. The large 
 open levels truly shine, and the interiors are fittingly creepy, but the confines simply aren't 
 practical. Ai is great, character designs are good (found myself shooting at team mates occasionally 
 since everyone is dressed in shiny black leather....) , but repetitive shooting in a frustrating 
 environment sucks the potential out of the game. Graphics-11 Best visuals on a multi-platform release.
 
  
  Gameplay- 7.5 Run and Gun
  
  Story- 6 Clive Barker? More Rawhead Rex than Imajica Sound- 10 Creepy. Very Creepy.
  
  Value- 
 Good for a rental, scary in places. Not a replacement for Condemned: Criminal Origins.
  
  Enjoy the show. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: eliteking
Rating: 6.5
Date: Oct 31, 2007 3:23 pm PT
Review:  First let me start by saying Jericho is an amazing looking game. The blurr effects and lighting 
 look amazing as well as the charater models. But with this beautiful outer shell the game is empty 
 inside. Each enemy is pretty much the same even though they look different. You empty clip after 
 clip into each guy while running around and reviving your dying team. You keep hitting waves a 
 guys that just take tons of ammo to kill and are no fun to kill. You may have a seven man team 
 but you cannot take advantage of it because you are always in narrow tunnels or hallways. You might 
 as well have one big guy with a bunch of powers and tons of infitite ammo, then just stand there 
 holding down the trigger. This game started off fun with an intriguing storyline, but it never 
 delivers and fails overall. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ognen
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 31, 2007 3:16 pm PT
Review:  Clive Barker is back on the field with his new title called Jericho. Created by the Codemasters, 
 this was supposed to be a great masterpiece with a great story. Though Clive Barker wasn't arround 
 since Undying, Jericho still has a great story mixed with pretty good graphics and textures wich 
 in my opinion, makes the game look wonderful.
  
  So in this game, you're a member of the Jericho squad, a team wich is on a mission to research 
 a city named Al - Khali... But that's just the begginning. As you go deep into the game, more and 
 more secrets are revealed, and then you just realize, that you're in that messy place called The 
 Box ... Your team starts to understand that it goes from time through time and continues to reveal 
 the truth...
  
  The great story is just one piece of this game. As it was prommissed, Jericho has good graphics 
 and though maybe arent the best, they are pretty good. The textures are also fantastic and the 
 concept art looks realy beatiful.
  
  Another thing that makes this game look so good is the sound. Great music that makes the atmosphere 
 of the game...
  
  If you're a fan of horror, this is a must-have... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ewilson248
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 31, 2007 12:59 pm PT
Review:  Well since I am a HUGE fan of Clive Barker's writing I was again hoping for some good stuff out 
 of this project. But as with Undying, his work seems to get lost in translation. The same problems 
 again surface in the latest offering - Jericho. First off the body jumping is a cool idea, but 
 based on who you are jumping to or from things can get ugly. the different hosts have a good variety 
 of play style but it still seems unbalanced to me.
  
  The eye candy is first rate, my SLI PC handles everything OK, nice and smooth. The audio is great 
 as well as the overall atmosphere of the game, It is a shame you really don't have a couple of 
 those OMG moments to show off the good work on art and audio. the level design seems about 10 years 
 behind the times. Closed in small rooms with no place to hide, I am always being forced go toe 
 to toe. The areas seem very linear and single level to me, after playing games like half life you 
 have come expect a good variety of indoors, outdoors, and changes of elevation in general. this 
 also limits your play style as well. AI in this game seems to be very low, while I realize that 
 many of the enemies should be a bit on the slow side it does not mean EVERY bad guy should be dumb 
 as a box of rocks.
  
  Clive, Please don't give up on the PC format just yet, find yourself a top notch level designer 
 who can do your talent justice, other than that don't change a thing buddy!
  
  Thanks, Ed 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KINGSLIMM
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 31, 2007 12:24 pm PT
Review:  I hope clive keep making games because Jericho is a fantastic shooter. My squad could have been 
 smarter , but it was nothing that a hardcore gamer could not overcome. This game has very addictive 
 gameplay if you like shooting. It has puzzles, though they are not that hard, it is a nice break 
 in the action. Every character is amazing once you master them. There are boss battles that are 
 very creative. Great graphics and story. The game has average length. I just wish it was co-op. 
 I hear bad reviews because it is a corridor shooter , but in this case thats not a bad thing. I 
 hate when i play some games and you have no idea where to go and it ends up taking you 15 minutes 
 to find where to go and you end up with a headache. So the level design is perfect for this game. 
 I just cant wait til the sequel. I have never experienced a story like this one, it was simply brilliant. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: speedshutters
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 31, 2007 12:13 pm PT
Review:  Note: I'm reviewing the PC version from a PC gamer's perspective.
  
  Before humans, God's first try at creating life didn't go so well. They were the First Born. However, 
 God couldn't destroy them so instead he locked them away somewhere in the desert. The First Born 
 didn't like that. But every now and then some wacko tries to release them with the hope gaining 
 power. The Jericho squad was created to stop this kind of thing from happening. And that's where 
 we begin...
  
  Clive Barker's Jericho is a squad-based horror themed shooter with story conceived by famed author 
 Clive Barker.
  
  Story:
  Clive Barker's hand in the game is instantly evident on the first level. If you've seen or read 
 any of his numerous books and movie adaptations, you'll feel right at home. Whether or not you 
 like his books or movies, Jericho's story is in the prime spotlight and it is very Clive Barkerish: 
 hellish demons, time shifts, religious cults, chains ,hooks, and exposed flesh. If you like that 
 kinda stuff, it's safe to say you'll enjoy Jericho. It's the story that will pull you through the 
 frustrating A. I. and claustrophobic corridors. Although I have to admit the ending was a little 
 lackluster, the majority of the story is satisfying.
  
  The Squad:
  The squad is made up of seven members each with their own weapons and arcane magics. However, your 
 character is dead physically, but alive in spirit. It is because of this that you are able to possess 
 one of the other six members at any given time. Each one has their purpose and you'll have no problem 
 finding one that you like to play.
  
  Gameplay:
  As the game progresses, you'll be required to control certain members to utilize their powers. 
 This will keep you from getting too comfortable with a member and helps mix things up. You never 
 want to be too comfortable anyways as there will be parts where your squad must split up. You will 
 grow to like your squad, if not for their distinct personalities then for their presence. As at 
 times, it will feel overwhelming even with your entire squad. Though sometimes it may feel the 
 enemy is too powerful and your squad is too weak, but that may be exactly the point. Your squad 
 is not suppose to be a seven man army. You are humans. They are demons. You are insects compared 
 to them. That is the way it's suppose to be. And because you are so weak, you'll think twice before 
 charging out with guns blazing. Besides, it's all the more sweet when you kick their ass.
  
  The health system is similar to Call of Duty 2. There are no health packs and there is no health 
 bar. As you take damage, veins will appear on your HUD (Head Up Display) and increase in size and 
 intensity as you near death. To regain health, all you need to do is wait in a safe place until 
 you HUD clears up. When one member dies, they can be revitalized by either Rawlings or which every 
 character you are currently possessing. If you die, you will be transported to the next available 
 member. If they is no available member, then you must start at the last checkpoint.
  
  The checkpoint save system, whether you like it or not, it is the only way to save. A quicksave 
 system would have been nice as that is what we PC gamers are accustomed to. However, I can live 
 with a checkpoint system. I found the distances between each checkpoint to be pretty good with 
 maybe a few exceptions. With the checkpoint system it keeps you from getting into a quicksave/quickload 
 mentality. It forces you to think am I being too careless, should I use another character, am utilizing 
 everyone's powers?
  
  Dotted throughout the game are scripted and unscripted Quick Time Events (ala Shenmue, RE4, etc.) 
 I'm not really a fan of these, but they help add a little variety to the normal fire fights. Whether 
 you like them or not, they are there. Luckily, I found them more forgiving than the ones in RE4 
 as they only involve the directional keys and the flow of the sequences are pretty natural. However, 
 it would be nice if it gives you a warning before it begins.
  
  Level Design:
  The majority of the level design involves long winding corridors. This discourages exploration 
 but keeps you from getting lost. There are invisible barriers in place to keep you from fall off 
 cliffs and bridges. This can take away the sense of immersion but will prevent unnecessary deaths. 
 Keeping in mind that you'll be traveling on such tight paths with a six man squad and sometimes 
 more, this is more of a blessing than a curse. Because of the corridor type level design, it will 
 feel tight especially during an intense fire fights with enemies from both sides. However, when 
 you get to the occasional more wide open area, you'll appreciate it until the enemies start coming. 
 One benefit from the corridor design is that you will almost always know which direction the enemy 
 is coming from and when the majority of the enemies' tactic is to rush and kill, this is good.
 
  
  Graphics:
  Jericho runs on the Unreal 3 engine and runs surprising well on my machine with max settings (my 
 specs are on the bottom) . The graphics are good, probably one notch above Quake 4 or Prey. The 
 characters are well modeled and textures are high quality. The colors are limited to shades of 
 blood, dirt, stone and rust. It did not bother me as it adds to the mood of the game. The lighting 
 and lack of lighting really sets the mood. For those of us still getting over the complete mess 
 that Doom 3 was, fear not, you will never be in complete darkness for more than a minute. One thing 
 I did not like was that bodies disappeared too quickly, dissolving into a big swarm of flies and 
 blood. Sometimes, the whole mess will completely obscure your vision during a fire fight, which 
 is not cool.
  
  A. I.
  The enemy AI is often limited to rush in and kill tactics. Okay, I can live with that. They are 
 mindless demons anyways. The squad AI is another story. They often walk right in your line of fire. 
 Sometimes, a member decides to chill in the back row and just watch as we are attacked by wave 
 after wave of exploding demons. Squad members will use their powers but often not enough. But when 
 they do come through, you'll think wow thanks, I needed that. Despite the short comings, they are 
 adequate most of the time. They'll shoot at the enemy and often that is all you can ask for.
  
  Stability
  Jericho is a solid game with no major bugs or issues. I've yet to encounter any 
 crashes or freezes. Which is more than you can say for some newly released high profile games.
 
  
  Pros:
  + Graphics are top-notch and runs well on current mid-range systems
  + Characters are likable for the most part
  + Each character feels different and plays different
 
  + Story is enjoyable and will pull you through frustrating times
  + Enemies well designed and gruesome looking
  
  Cons:
  - Levels could use more open areas
 
  - Could use some variety in the enemy types
  - Could use some variety in the enemy tactics
  - Squad members should be more of a help and less 
 a hindrance
  - Quicksave option
  - Quick Time Event warning
  
  Final Thoughts:
  If given a chance, Jericho can be enjoyable. You will appreciate it, if not for the gameplay than 
 for the story, characters, and atmosphere. Even if it's not really scary, it's definitely creepy. 
 Buy it, borrow it, whatever. It's worth checking out one way or another.
  
  My specs: AMD Athlon 64 X2 3800 (OC'ed to 2.6 ghz) , 2 Gig PC3200 Ram, Windows XP, ATI Radeon 1950 
 XT. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: schmen999
Rating: 6
Date: Oct 31, 2007 10:48 am PT
Review:  I have played almost every FPS since original Wolfenstein and Duke Nukem. I have read just about 
 everything Clive Barker has ever published. I was looking forward to this game on several levels, 
 after all Clive Barker's Undying was a great game. I ran this game on a PC with 2 nvidea 7800GT 
 in SLI.
  
  Lets start with what is good about this game (shorter list)
  1. The graphics are pretty and the game ran stable. There was not a single crash while running 
 and the graphics didn't bog down the system even in heavy fire fight situations.
  2. The squad switching mechanic was fun and kept the game play somewhat fresh. Another nice thing 
 about the squad mechanic was it does away with the bulky weapon switch most other FPS games have. 
 Each member of the squad has a primary / secondary fire for their weapon and primary / secondary 
 skill. I have often wondered where Duke Nukem was hiding all of those rocket launchers and chain 
 guns when he was using the pistol. 3. As you would expect from Clive Barker the enemies and especially 
 the bosses are pretty sick and twisted. Well drawn and UGLY!!!
  4. The cut scenes where you have to press UP, DOWN, LEFT, or RIGHT to escape are a nice break from 
 the regular game play. A little tough for slow old guys like me : )
  
  The BAD
  1. If you play on PC you CANNOT use the left and right mouse buttons for anything but primary / 
 secondary weapon fire. That means you have to re-learn your control - ANNOYING
  2. Level design is poor. In short it is a pretty looking rat maze. The game play is linear and 
 there is only one way to go.
  3. Game ambiance isn't enough to make this game even slightly scary. Undying was a truly frightening 
 game from Clive Barker but there is none of that here.
  4. Battle sequences could be much tougher because of the healing skills of both Ross and Rawlings. 
 In addition the ammo is re-supplied by Cole whenever you get low. Too many advantages for the experienced 
 player, it was easy to kill most everything. 5. The enemies are drawn well but effectively stupid. 
 The AI tends to march toward you against impossible odds while you are ripping them to shreds. 
 Most of the enemies don't take advantage of cover. 6. Some of the special skills are useless excepting 
 where the game forces you to use them to progress. This game could have had much harder puzzles 
 and progression requirements. The UGLY
  
  The ending was one of the ugliest game endings I have played through in a while. Conclusion
  
 Clive Barker's Jericho has a lot of potential that was not developed. Jericho is pretty and the 
 engine runs well. The game is a little bit quirky because of the control, but fun. There is little 
 replay value in running through the game a second time because the levels are linear and the story 
 is of a single line with no branching points. The game could have been MUCH scarier, but again 
 the ball was dropped here. All in all I thought the game was worth playing if you can find it at 
 a discount. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bananafish87
Rating: 3
Date: Oct 31, 2007 7:09 am PT
Review:  The game has some pretty amazing graphical effects, unfortunately their artists only focused on 
 that one aspect and forgot to design more than 3 unique levels. Most time each room is exactly 
 the same as the last and they didn't even bother to change the textures. As a result you find yourself 
 back at the beginning of the map most of the time. The accidental backtracking is not really that 
 big of a deal seeing as how if there were no monsters you could get from one end of the map to 
 the other in less than 30 seconds. The total gameplay time comes mostly from doing the same thing 
 over and over and over again; If you're lucky you get to pick a spot, stand there and shoot all 
 the bad guys that come at you. If you're unlucky (like I was) and the majority of the time your 
 NPCs were dead because they fail to retreat from any type of exploding characters, you get to play 
 healbot and run around resurrecting your team. Boss fights are the worst part because most bosses 
 have a gimmick for killing them and there's really no way of letting the NPCs know -_- they'll 
 stand there dying and wasting bullets shooting at the bosses shield. Another fun factor is there 
 is no real ammo so you have to wait for one of your NPCs to send it to you before you can start 
 shooting again witch tends to become tiresome during those long shoot at the same bad guy for 20 
 minutes as he keeps popping out of the ground scenes.
  
  The Story is mildly intriguing, being the only thing that kept me playing this game along with 
 spike spiegle (hell yeah) being the voice of the main character. I spent most of the game waiting 
 for him to say something new. Unfortunately most of the characters were given 2 phrases that they 
 get to say during battle and that 50/50 chance tends to lean one way most of the time. Be prepared 
 to get very tired of the phrase Holy mother of Jesus 
::::::

::::::
UserName: roybusch
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 31, 2007 2:33 am PT
Review:  If you look trough all the bad things you will have a great time with this I know I will:) .
  Exciting firefights and that creepy feeling
  it reminds me of the good old days of hellraiser 
 1
  and 2 god I miss those movies. Clive Next time
  try to polish your game a little further....
  About the level design I've seen what you guys
 
  @ gamespot mean I think they just wanted to release
  the game before the big winteroffensive but if they were
  a little more thoughtfull @codemasters 
 they could have
  decided to wait and fully complete the game instead of
  bringing a descent game with crappy level designs.
  Maybe they'll learn from their mistakes and 
 next time
  be more patient with releasing it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Truemole
Rating: 7
Date: Oct 30, 2007 10:26 pm PT
Review:  Right from the start Jericho does it's best to create an incredibly creepy atmosphere - the helicopter 
 ride in at the start already gets you supicious of some of your team and each of ther prep animations 
 (some annoyingly repeated) and opening dialogue sets out each team member as a unique inidividual. 
 They've also gone to a fair amount of effort to give you a sense of the background to the story, 
 and since it's a good 5-10 minutes before you get to shot anything this passes the time nicely.
 
  
  When the shotting starts your initially confined to just one member of the team and unforunately 
 they have probably the most boring weapon, although it's fun pop heads with the shotgun it doesn't 
 have the sense of power you get from the sniper rifle or the minigun. The opening level is generally 
 very forgiving as you get used to healing teamates taken out, but when the game starts sending 
 exploding zombie things at you from both directions you can find your game ending suddenly with 
 an explosion you didn't see coming taking out you and the alt-healer. This gets annoying very quickly 
 becuase the saving in Jericho is based on a Checkpoint system, there's no quicksave to hit everytime 
 something jumps out and says boo - there's some definite benifits to this system - i know the tension 
 in the game wouldve been ruined if i could just press F5 after every fight, and generally combat 
 need never be fatal - except in the those, unfortunately all to frequent, badly designed areas.
 
  
  This problem is lessened after you leave the present day and go to WWII timezone, at which time 
 your able to body-hop around your team, bringing with you the power to heal anyone, this does minimize 
 those annoying moments but they still manage to creep in - For example a flamethrowing heavy zombie 
 comes out of tunnel you've just come through at one point, while your holding off an army of zombie 
 coming the other way - it took 3 retries for me to stop this killing off my team because each time 
 i wanted to blow up the zombies attacking me normally, but instead i was forced to wait at this 
 entrance so i could blast one guy before moving back to the battle. Also Your team can feel incredibly 
 useless at times- this emphasized because in larger areas they feel like a solid fightning force 
 - one set-piece near the beginning has your whole team guarding a computer while tech-girl does 
 some data recovery, the feelin of having a squad with massive firepower and abilities really shows 
 there - so why in most of the corridoors and tunnels does it feel like i'm the only one fighting 
 and the rest of the squad are there as back-up 'lives' incase i get to over-zealous? This brings 
 me to another problem with Jericho - most of the time, and partically at the beginning and during 
 the WWII section it feels like your punished for aggressive play styles - if you run forward into 
 a group of zombies, taking them all out and hammerin the last one to death with the butt of your 
 gun, why do two more spawn right in front of you and quickly make you pay? Would've it really been 
 that hard to move the spawn points back after the player had trod of that point? It would've helped 
 make the feeling of pusing back a tide of evil much stronger. Also there are some points which 
 seem to be put in just to slow you down, one member of hte team seems to be put in just so there's 
 a puzzle section every now again, and why when my whole team are telling me that we need to tread 
 on tiles to move on, do i have to maunally order them to do it?! Moments like these just frustrate 
 the gamer, they would'v been better off adding more storyline elements in or some of hte interactive 
 cutscences (though a few of these are annoying in their own right but at least can have comical 
 outcomes sometimes) My next big problem with Jerich is it's length - the games over in less than 
 8 hours if your an experienced FPS player - you can replay on a harder setting to unlock some back 
 information about the characters and locations but this feels abit weak. Not only that but the 
 manual and the backstory imply that there's 7 timezones to go through, and the reason *SPOILER* 
 that this Jericho team doesn't face the same fate as the others is because it's the 7th team through 
 (Firstborn had a thing for James Bond or something) Yet at the end of the 3rd timeslot (not including 
 present day) Your given one lame line by the Priest saying oh on the third jump we reach the samaritans. 
 What happened to Greek and Persian Empires (and one other i can't remember) It gives a strong feeling 
 that these got cut because the game was taking to long (i'm guessing) if the publishers had given 
 abit more time to allow for testing - to weed out those crapply designed bits of level, and add 
 in these missing zones Jericho could well have been a FPS worth remembering, this in a year when 
 Bioshock was released.
  
  *SPOILERS*
  My Final Problem with Jericho is the ending - i didn't think it was as bad as some people have 
 been saying but it is a real low-point in the game, after the intro of the Firstborn in the last 
 area (which is pretty awsome) s/he just feels really underpowered, he can pull me towards him and 
 slap me up but i'm just gonna heal whoever he touches straight away, there's almost no sense of 
 danger. And when you do bring s/he down, it doesn't feel like you've just beaten what's meant to 
 be so powerful a being it frightens God. And you never get to finish off the guy you been hunting 
 all the way through, overall givig you a feeling of disatisfaction with the whole game. But there 
 are some really good points Jericho which is why i'm bothering to write this review, some of the 
 set-pieces are truely excellant, and when the A. I. is working it gives you a feeling of immense 
 power and potential for destruction. Also your'll probably never get to bored or stuck because 
 the game quickly tells you what you need to do - and have 6 people (admitedly your probably going 
 to be only using 5 as one has almost no powers) all very different, as soon as one starts to feel 
 abit boring or samey you can switch to the next, also ammo is almost unlimited so you dont have 
 that urge to save up grandes or special rounds like you do in other FPS. And dispite the crap ending 
 the storylines not too bad, and the characters do actually feel unique rather than just being carbon 
 copy soliders with different equipment/abilites. If your a Hardcore FPS fan then there's definitely 
 going to be moments your gong enjoy in Jericho and the bad parts are probably going to be less 
 of a problem so it's worth toughing it out. Also fans of the horror genre are probably going enjoy 
 this for some of it's most grusome bits (look out for the entrance of the Firstborn for the last 
 level) although it didn't actually make me jump at any point, just occasionally marvel at how grusome 
 they've made the arichture. Casual gamers i'd advise spending your money elsewhere, you'll enjoy 
 jericho but your'll be banging your head on the desk just as often and there's better games out 
 there - If you ony got &pound;30 to spend buy Bioshock and wait for Jerico in the bargin bin. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dspent
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 30, 2007 8:44 pm PT
Review:  In fact, the only thing I could find wrong with this game was the somewhat repetitiveness and the 
 absolutely crappy ending. Other than that, Visually - stunning, Sound is off the chain and plays 
 well with the story/subject matter. Gameplay and AI of the Jericho team is great with one exception.... 
 Rawlings' special powers are useless. The concept of team play works extremely well in this game. 
 Unlinke many so called team FPS games, you actually need your team to get through this game and 
 the ability to jump from character to character is used to perfection. At any rate, do yourself 
 a favor and ignore the gamespot review.....
  
  Check this one out. It's got a few flaws, but no where near as bad as the GS review makes it out 
 to be..... Usually gamespot reviews are pretty dead on for me, but this one not so much. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Fandango_Letho
Rating: 6
Date: Jul 3, 2008 12:13 pm PT
Review:  The Good : - Cool character cast. - Nice first persion immersion effect with head shaking and context 
 sensitive may be hit or miss.
  
  The Bad : - Some characters are rather useless and some abilities have just no use at all, context 
 sensitive action is hit or miss. - Stupid story - Loading screen every 20 steps. Short campaing 
 with no reason to play it again.
  
  Graphics : Jericho's Graphics are not exceptionnal but they're far from being bad. Some great lightning 
 effects there and there, good artistic direction and nice weaponry adds a lot. But it's nothing 
 we never saw before.
  
  Sound : Generaly great cast of voice actors ( except Delgado's who simply don't fit ; imagine a 
 bald viking guy with a soft latino voice ) , amazing sound effects and chilly chorus.
  
  Features : Not much. You can unlock bio pages for characters and monsters, but nothing worth the 
 look. Once you're done with the campaing, you can try a harder setting, but chances are you probably 
 won't on this PC version.
  
  Gameplay : Pretty standard FPS with some akward but working controls for weapon costumisation . 
 You can swap from characters to characters to have a new set of weapon and abilities, but generaly 
 you'll end up using the same character unless you're force to do differently.
  
  End note ; Jericho isn't bad, but the ending leaves you on a huge cliffhanging, and since you probably 
 won't understand why you are teleporting from historic area to others while slaying grotesque demons 
 and stuff, it doesn't make any more sense. The game is a little bit too short and you'll see about 
 enough different enemy types to count them on your fingers. It's not bad, but it's not very impressing 
 either. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xmreaper
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 30, 2007 5:35 pm PT
Review:  This game has the best model textures that I have ever seen. The story line is awesome but the 
 boss scenes are horrible. The maps and environment screw with your brain and are very hard to move 
 around in they also have some bad textures on the stairs and rocks. I cant tell you how much the 
 model textures impressed me though THEY ARE GORGEOUS.... in a gruesome , bloody, rip-your-head-off-and-eat-it 
 sort of way . Above all though the switching between characters is pretty darn cool my favorite 
 character is Church be cause of the sword. I rate the Game an 8. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NariandColds
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 30, 2007 3:57 pm PT
Review:  It just pisses me off when they review one game on one platform (360 in this case) and post the 
 review for all the platforms. Long loading time?? **** NO. At least not on the PC. If 10 seconds is 
 long, you are waaaaaaaaay to snappy. I liked the game, and the fact that I was confined within a level 
 and had only one way to take. If I want freedom I will play Oblivion or GTA again. But from time 
 to time I need a game to take me from point A to B without going thru C, D, E etc. All fans of shooters 
 should try it out. I can't give it a 10. It's to short and it has little replay valua. But a 8?? Hell 
 yeah. It's a good rental game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: alovia
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 30, 2007 3:37 pm PT
Review:  this game deserves 10/10 for only its bravery. Yeah recharging suits?! lol
  the animations which responds like REAL HUMAN REFLEXES is enough for explaing bravery. I dont care 
 if its linear yeah its linear you go kill and go and kill again....
  Your gun collides with world, you cant jump like a bunny
  you cant move your crosshair to your 
 own feet which is very smart
  and other stuff like that.
  Theres a lot of new stuff in this game that should ve been done in fps games a long time ago.
 
  Dont care about the critics they only lick asses whoever gives them money.
  This game's developers are new so they couldnt give em cash lol 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Doomer101
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 30, 2007 2:38 pm PT
Review:  Game played on :
  ASUS 6600 256 mb
  1024 mb kingston ram
  P4 3.0 ghz
  -------------------------------------------
  Yet again, Clive Barker releases a masterpiece, 
 which is overlooked by many.
  
  ---------Graphics --------- Very well optmized game, i played it with the previously mentionned 
 computer, on 640 x 480, shader on high, textures on high, and got a constant 20-30 fps, which is 
 a splendid result, considering my system.
  The character models are well detailed, the monsters really do look like abominations from hell, 
 and the detail given to the environments makes them immersive to say at least.
  The blood ,gore, and the head popping make for a satisfying fragfest.
  
  10/10
  
  ---------Sound --------- 
 Starting from the menu screen, the music is a fest for your ears. It just fits in so well with 
 the actions going on at a certain moment. Whilst the music is great, the voice acting still has 
 a small room for improvement.
  
  9.5/10
  
  ---------Gameplay --------- Okay, so this is the part that brought up the main controversy. You 
 play as the soul of the dead leader of the Jericho squad. You have the power to possess your teammates, 
 one at a time, and controlling them.
  This actually makes for a pretty fun concept, and gives place to funny one-liners, such as when 
 you are possessing, Black, the sniper of the squad, Frank Delgado, the heavy weapons guy, says 
 Now you finally know what it's like to have a man inside you .
  
  The action pretty much consists of shooting enemies as they come. Very painkiller like. And this 
 is probably what people didn't like. It's nothing innovative. Its just old school shooting action, 
 and i enjoyed it from the very first minute to the last.
  
  The bosses aren't conventional bosses. By unconventional bosses, i mean that those are bosses which 
 have weaknesses that need to be exploited in order to defeat them.
  
  The enemies themselves could use a little more variety, but that's no big deal.
  
  All of the 
 characters have distinguishable personalities, as well as a unique weapon and psychic powers, diversifying 
 the action.
  
  What is the bad part? It's over before you know it. I passed the game in about 6-8 hours. But it 
 was good while it lasted .
  
  The level design is fabulous, ranging large open battlefields, to small, dark claustrophobic corridors.
 
  
  9.5/10
  
  ---------Story ---------
  In the beginning, god created the first born. Unable to kill it, he imprisoned him. Basically, 
 Leach, a notorious criminal, tries to open the breach , and the jericho squad must stop him. I 
 wont spoil the story from you, but it is better than the average fps story
  
  8/10
  
  ---------Replay value ---------
  Jericho is a one way game, but replaying the game controlling 
 different members and trying to unlock the extras adds some replay value.
  
  7/10
  
  ---------Overall ---------
  
  9/10
  
  Jericho is a game that fps fans should not overlook, 
 and at least give it a shot by renting it, because this is the quality game that will keep you 
 bust whilst you wait for the other great releases coming soon, whilst providing tons of entertainment. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ele975
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 30, 2007 9:29 am PT
Review:  Good: Most impressive graphics this year, outstanding gameplay and easy to use, great voice acting 
 that rivals Half-Life 2. Best story i've ever laid my eyes on
  
  Bad: slow reactions when pressing the mouse button, most dissopointed ending ever which CLEARLY 
 rivals Halo 2.
  -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  
  Clive Barker's Jericho, is one of the most impressive FPS game i've ever played when it comes to 
 Graphical impressiveness, outstanding gameplay and easy keyboard usage.
  
  When i bought this game, i was eager to get home and start playing this game. popped the CD in, 
 installed the game and played it.
  
  Gameplay: When i first heard you could possess your other team members because the main character 
 was dead, i instantly new that this is a new twist to a story and gameplay. Because if you don't 
 know it, every single team member's weapon and magic is best used at a certain point at a battle. 
 Like the Blood Ward which binds your enemy and making them easier to kill, that can help you turn 
 the tide of a battle.
  
  The minigun that Delgado uses is great for using when the enemy is far out, damaging them enough 
 to have low health is the best course of action than killing them. And so goes on and on. If you 
 think using only the minigun and other various guns is gonna turn the tide of the battle, think 
 again. You sometimes need to use some of the magic they are in possession of, the Jericho Team 
 is not invincible.
  
  Graphics: Jericho has the most impressive meshed, blood realistic, character made graphics i've 
 so far seen this year. The game lived up to the blood graphics, the realism of the blood, organs 
 and skin is better than Crysis. And i'm not kidding! Download the demo and see it for yourself, 
 then come back and check the graphic review again. It's really hard to explain, but the best way 
 to say it is: It's 3D, NOT 2D like in many games this year and last. But of course the lip synchronization 
 could have been 2 times better.
  
  Story: !!!! SPOILERS!!!! So the story is about the Jericho Team is gonna seal a breach where The 
 Firstborn is gonna escape from, and The Firstborn is the first attempt from God to create mankind, 
 neither male or female, nor dark or light and no emotions. Disturbed by the powers God gave The 
 Firstborn. He banshied it into the Abyss unloved and forgotten, which then God created Adam and 
 Eve, giving them Emotions, sexes and a Soul to balance them. But The Firstborn hates mankind, he 
 wants the entire species dead and eradicated from Earth forever. The story is far bigger than you 
 might original think, so i'm gonna stop there. But i can say that The Firstborn has tried to escape 
 several times and which he then takes a Time slice with him. And each attempt to close the Breach 
 has been successful but the fate of each Jericho squad (or whatever name at the times) has never 
 returned.
  
  But the total let down is what HAPPENS to them? Seriously, what happens to them? did they manage 
 to get back to they're time? Did they get stuck back to Adam and Eve's time? did they die? If i 
 could say something to Clive Barker it would be WHAT THE H*LL MAN!? 
  
  Clive Barker's Jericho is a Must-a-get game, Gamespot just unfairly reviewed it. And ignore 1UP, 
 seriously, ignore them. Good Luck! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ziad90
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 30, 2007 8:57 am PT
Review:  I know one thing all people who liked Tom Clancy Rainbow Six Las Vegas will like it a lot because 
 of its similar style. the game-play and the sounds are great. In addition to that, Its horror screens 
 reminded us with FEAR and other horrific games. Moreover, besides Rainbow Six, every one who likes 
 the game style of Resident Evil (all versions) , they will also like this game because of its similarities. 
 Finally, when you say that a game whose minimum requirement for a graphic card is a GeForce 8 series, 
 this me, this means that the graphics is awesome
  
  I think that it deserves a score above 9 so I'm giving it a Full Score. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dsattam
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 30, 2007 7:03 am PT
Review:  What could be one of the most terrifying games ever made has became a frenzy shooter, like Quake4 
 or Painkiller.
  
  Honestly, what makes you jump off your sit is not having an horde of 200 enemies facing you, but 
 the feeling of not knowing what will happen next.
  
  Not know when some creature will appear... The surprise element... Not know when you will be attacked 
 is what makes you tense!
  
  Jericho is very predictable. Who played Doom3 and Quake4 knows very well what I'm talking about.
 
  
  But there are also some very good elements in the game, as the possibility to play with all six 
 team-mates, different weapons, different powers, the speech sometimes ironic, sometimes sarcastic, 
 the time travel history is also cool.
  
  There one observation I'd like to do... I didn't notice any long loading time as some people criticize. 
 During loading screens, usually before the second text line being completed, the game was already 
 loaded... And I'm using an old Pentium D @ 3.6Ghz with 2Gb only.
  
  As a First Person Shooter Game I would classified Jericho as a very good game. As a Horror like, 
 just frustrating. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Vasot
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 3, 2007 2:32 pm PT
Review:  The game is pretty good overall
  
  I do not understand why gamespot scored it with 6.5.... it deserves at least a 7.5 or a 8.0 Graphics 
 are pretty good and does not demand as Super Computer to enjoy it with high detail
  
  Sounds are excellent and very well implemented
  
  Levels are very well done and they look like 
 taken from a Horror movie
  also
  The idea of using a team with their own powers and equipment is very well done and something more 
 refreshing for the genre
  
  Its a good game overall
  
  Do not listen of some critics bashing it and giving it awful low scores
  Play it yourself and 
 then judge it 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PT-KoRn_Child
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 30, 2007 2:44 am PT
Review:  First of all I think It's a good game that got underrated .
  The concept of switching bodies is great. You begin the game has captain of a team that later on 
 as a little accident . Somehow his spirit survives and you'll be able to control any member of 
 the team. Each one has a special ability and different weapons. Theres a character that has an 
 awesome special ability that I think is worth mentioning: She can enable slow-motion (obviously 
 for a time limit) which effects everyone around her (even our team members) but she moves in real 
 time. Now imagine a battlefield filled in with lots of enemies, some are arriving and already finding 
 shelter, so you activate this ability, try to be has fast has possible to get behind them, drop 
 a few grenades and try to return to your hiding spot; slo-mo time expires and you see the fireworks 
 with enemies lifting up with the grenades. Believe me it is really cool. If you die while controlling 
 a character your spirit moves on automatically to another character. You lose the game when all 
 team members are dead. If a team member gets injured (same effect has being dead) you can heal 
 him/her. This game kinda reminds Painkiller (dead enemies coming out from many places) with a deeper 
 story and much more abilities to explore. The graphics are amazing and the game levels give you 
 enough space to continue playing and only stop when you finish the game. There are some parts of 
 the game that you have to stop to switch to another character that has the required ability to 
 get you through to the next part of the level. The only aspect that I really hate in this game 
 is the fact that the characters sometimes treat each other by their first or nick name and when 
 we pop up the character selection menu their last name his displayed. You may lose a couple minutes 
 at start but you get used to after. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mis_Led_Madman
Rating: 6
Date: Oct 29, 2007 7:49 pm PT
Review:  Ok so when I first actually played the demo for this game I thought it was great. Short yet amusing. 
 I then realized that the reason why it might of been so short is because they didn't want you to 
 figure out how repetitive the game play would be. Which is what it is. I'm not going to say that 
 the game play was bad because it wasn't . Out of several other games I have played this is one 
 of the games I played for about an hour and got tired and or annoyed with.
  
  The good: The good is the game has a somewhat interesting storyline, very pretty graphics (if you 
 will) , and some interesting characters. To be honest not much else good about it. Maybe its just 
 me.
  
  The bad: The bas is that even though this game brings several different characters to life, they 
 are the same old character types there has been in the past. I will talk one. The heavy, which 
 is a big, cocky, strong guy wielding a heavy machine gun. All I'm looking to see here is something 
 a little out of the ordinary. Controlling several different people can seem fun at first but then 
 after the first thirty minutes seem some what boring. To sum it up I didn't enjoy this game as 
 much as I thought I would shame on me. Let me just rap it up by saying that graphics do not make 
 a game which a decent amount of people don't seem to process. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: razlken
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 29, 2007 2:44 pm PT
Review:  Clive Barker's Jericho is a great game, but could have been much better. The game is great and 
 really addictive. it has some bad points but if you like the genre you'll like all the rest
  
  Graphics:
  
  the graphics are not the newest but great. It works great on most computer 
 and the visuals are really realistic, you'll find yourself concentrating a lot on the environment 
 and the realism in it. the lighting in some areas add alot to the realism and the environment.
 
  
  the game environment is totally filled you a crude and gorish Horror style visuals, so if you don't 
 like the genre keep away from it, or rent it to see it yourself.
  
  Audio:
  
  The audio is good, even if the first times you'll feel that the voices are not good on the characters 
 and seemed forced a little, but you'll get used to it and eventually like it. The ambiance audio 
 is great you'll hear enemies moving around, drops of blood falling and other creepy noises that 
 help you immerse yourself in the game.
  
  Story:
  
  The story is Great, written by Clive Barker a great Horror Books writer. If you played Undying 
 don't expect Jericho to be similar to it, they are totally different types. But both great and 
 addictive the story seems to reflect exactly what the writer wanted to pinpoint and with the great 
 graphics it's exactly as if your watching a movie.
  
  The characters are Classical stereotypes, but this is actually a good thing as it merges with the 
 story perfectly and seems to add realism to it too. You'll probably find yourself liking some characters 
 and hating others for their opinions or point of views as the story progresses.
  
  GamePlay:
  
  The game play is pretty easy it's a classic FPS, but with some strategic and team 
 based elements that are essential for the survival. If you rush in an area you could easily find 
 yourself overrun by the enemies, so you need to think before acting and not just killing aimlessly. 
 it's repetitive at some times but no difference from other games.
  
  The great innovation is the ability to switch between team members. it will seem useless at the 
 beginning, but you'll get used to it and will find out that it is a great way to co-ordinate attacks 
 and sometimes use enemy weaknesses to your advantage. Each team member has 2 different powers and 
 2 type of weapons each has different effects and pro &amp; cons so this is another strategic element 
 to take in account while playing. Virtually your un-killable at least as long as one member of 
 your time is alive as the game gives you the ability to resurrect any killed ally to continue playing..
 
  
  Some times in the game you'll come across some interactive cutscenes that are needed to continue 
 the game or simply as a way to stop an enemy from instantly killing the controlled team member. 
 these cutscenes can be really annoying (if playing with the keyboard on the PC version) as the 
 arrows that appear on the sides of the screen are fast and the error margin is really small. so 
 expect to get it wrong a lot, but no worry, if you fail, the game will load the beginning of that 
 scene (only for the obligatory ones) and you won't have to reload to the previous check point.
 
  
  The game has some simple puzzles to solve using your team mates powers, but nothing too complicated 
 and doesn't affect the action at all.
  
  The AI is not of the best your team mates are not geniuses but not Idiots either. sometimes they'll 
 respond to commands a little bit late and can result in their death. the best way to solve this 
 is to experiment and get used to the system. The enemies AI is pretty bad. Enemies don't actually 
 think but Rush at you, but it's not a great deal after all they are zombies and abominations.
 
  
  most of the time you'll find yourself in difficulty because of the great number of enemies that 
 will charge at you at once, this is a great way to implement the strategic features in the game 
 the less you think the faster you die.
  
  Other:
  
  The areas are sometimes small so you'll see alot of fast loading screens that won't bother you 
 at all, but will keep you waiting for the one after as it gives some comments on the upcoming area 
 or updates on the story.
  
  The really disappointing thing is that the saving is made through checkpoints and not quick saves 
 or normal saves. so if you die you get to replay from the nearest checkpoint, which sometimes it's 
 kind of annoying.
  
  The extra menu is a great thing for anyone that wants to have a little bit of background on characters, 
 organizations, enemies, etc etc... These Extras must be unlocked first. So you'll find yourself 
 trying to play the game a second time to try and unlock the information
  
  Conclusion:
  
  Overall the game is great, a great experience for Horror and FPS fans. it will keep you attached 
 to the monitor for a pretty long time if your not an expert, if you are then the game will suffer 
 a little bit from it's rather mediocre longevity 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jin_Kazawa
Rating: 6
Date: Oct 29, 2007 10:48 am PT
Review:  I've read some of the reviews and I agree on almost everything. The good is: graphics... The bad 
 is: the rest. The atmosphere, the gameplay is almost based on that Painkiller game; enter the zone, 
 kill the enemies, go to next zone. The engine is totaly Quake or Doom, as you can see by disapearing 
 bodies and lotsa other stuff. As for the story, it's interesting somehow, it drives you to play 
 further. As for gameplay... No comment. Pure shootout, no tactics, just run forward and press mouse 
 buttons, reload press buttons, see bodies dissapear, repeat the whole thing again. I expected a 
 lot more of this, but I don't blame the Clive. I blame the guys who thought that graphics could 
 beat great gameplay. Thats my opinion. I'll play this a little bit more, just to see the other 
 sick creations, but thats all. I find this game poor, poor newgen-flashy graphs-click to kill-no 
 fun at all type.
  
  (Or Im just getting older and wanting too much out of new gen. games) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Raptole
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 29, 2007 5:11 am PT
Review:  This game is amaing! I like it very much! And the Title Menu is very nice (with blood) ! Yes, this 
 game is amazing!
  I like how the game starts! And the System Requirements are not very high and so a lot of people 
 could play this amazing game! I like the style of the gameplay and everything about the game! I 
 think that this game is something different! It is different from the other Horror and Action games!
 
  The sound of the game is awesome! I like the voices who scream and talk! :D I like the hole game 
 it is something very amazing! I think that this time I bought a nice PC Game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: londonrider
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 5, 2007 11:15 am PT
Review:  I didn't finish the game yet, but so far I could say that Jericho is one of the most enjoyable 
 games (I bought, played demos and betas of more than 50 titles this year only) . The pace, chaos 
 and rate of deaths remind me (I'm sorry for the direct comparison) dungeons of World of Warcraft, 
 but Jericho provides the pure fun, very enjoyable story, cinematic-level graphics, top notch FX 
 and superb music.
  
  One more interesting point. Clive Barker is not a gamer himself, so no wonder that the game is 
 different from what we are used to. And I do consider this aspect as extremely positive, because 
 instead of just-another-game it provides book or film level adventure with story-wise well developed 
 characters and unforgettable visuals.
  
  Ok, I'm back to Jericho now 
::::::

::::::
UserName: n0madc0re
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 29, 2007 4:27 am PT
Review:  I played this game juste after tryin the Crysis demo. And what a surprise : Graphically it's very 
 nice, motion blur and field of view adds a lot. But the most attractive in this game are the characters 
 ... You just love listening and watching them. They all have their personality, their weapons and 
 talents. The voice acting is wonderful (I love the way Church is nervously breathing when she's 
 hurt) , and they are all acting conforming to their style : nervous ninja woman, psychomaniac elite 
 sniper, religious illuminated priest, emphasizing medium, hardcore minded berserker, meticulous 
 and calculating tactical riflegirl ... and you all control them.
  
  The gameplay is nicely progressive, and I found myself discovering new deadly combos by switchin 
 different chars at a later playtime.
  
  Game's lifetime is surprising, I spent actually more than 10 hours on this game (I'm pretty much 
 used to FPS) , and still not at the end. I will love to restart it in other difficulty modes, as 
 every char got its own playstyle. Not boring at all. Sometimes you got amazing interactive cutscenes, 
 where you have to press the right movement keys at the right time (very fast paced) to succed in 
 a stunning action, like killing a giant beast by the ninja's sword, climb a cliff's corner, get 
 away from an undead grappling your throat, exorcising a demon and many other sweet, sweet moments.
 
  
  All while impressive voice talents.
  
  The characters got life. And you'll love it.
  
  And of course ... the gore, demonish, satanistic ambience ...
  
  Well, the game is a movie, 
 and too few games offers this to us at the moment. And this one succeeds at it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gfile
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 26, 2008 12:44 pm PT
Review:  Clive Barkers Jericho is a horror tactical FPS game and will yet to prove its originality of gameplay. 
 Although i am a fan of Clive Barkers and i played most of its related games, i will try to be 
 objective in this review. This game delivers us a great tactical shooter similar to Ghost Recon 
 mixed with horror elements as seen in Fear and Painkiller and fantasy elements like healing your 
 teammates (bots) in singleplay campaign which i find refreshing in this genre. To start with GOOD 
 side of a game ... i will say that Jericho have a great horror story but its not for every stomach 
 ... it have so much blood and gore in gameplay ... it made us that feeling like we participate in 
 some uncuted horror movie. Graphic in the game is really good optimized for middle aged configs 
 so you could run this game in every middle class PC with of course min options set, but the game 
 will look great enough with decent frame rates. If you have better PC you can set a lot of advanced 
 options (DX10, AA up to 8X ... damn ... it looks amazing!) all to high end and enjoy the true beauty 
 of its graphics. Characters in Jericho are separated in two teams, you can lead them both ... after 
 your lead character is dead (i must spoil the story a bit) you can swich bodies of your teammates 
 and use their special weapons and skills which can improve during your progress in the game. Sounds 
 and voice acting are phenomenal, period. 
  BAD side of this game is pointed in repetitive gameplay. Nothing else to add. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: scvido
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 29, 2007 2:03 am PT
Review:  well, i had high expectations for this game when i heard about it and been awaiting the release, 
 finally i got the full game and im already halfway.
  
  heres my review ;)
  
  -Graphics- The graphics are really well done with lots of shaders, shadows and the best thing is 
 that on my 8800GTS 640MB and Athlon3800+ X2 is running around 50-70fps all the time, this is in 
 WindowsXP with the latest 169.01 beta forceware. good stuff.
  
  i would've liked to see some better animations, sure it uses PhysX library but i just dont feel 
 much realism in the characters movements, the physics itself are great with things flying around, 
 explosions etc in a good way, but your team moves as if they got some stick up their ass.
  The monsters while scary, could've been even better if they had a smoother animation it would've 
 improved the experience even more, but that's ok.
  
  -Audio- well the audio is very important in any horror game, here it is nicely done, but again 
 your team during fights repeat the same lines over and over, said that, during the story however 
 the audio is top notch and very well acted. the music works very well in the game building suspense.
 
  
  -Gameplay- when i first launched the game and played 10-15min i was.... DAMN, what a crappy game, 
 great introduction then the real gameplay sucked so i quit.
  an hour later i went back and decided to give it another try, suddenly i started to enjoy it a 
 lot and this definetely ranks high in the list of FPS this year.
  
  the story is awesome too!
  
  maybe the weakest part of the game is the weapon punch and the 
 monsters take lots of bullets to die, this was probably the reason why i dropped the game in the 
 beginning, just not enough power and killing the creaturers was bland, but if you set aside this 
 like i did you find an excellent game underneath.
  UNDYING was one of my favorite games ever and this one is no exception,
  you going to get in 
 a lot of firefights and battles and the story will help in keeping you interested.
  
  CONCLUSION
  
  i really like JERICHO, it's a very good game and i'm enjoying it a lot,
  make 
 sure to get the latest 3dcard drivers otherwise your Framerate will
  lag, i had the 163.71whql drivers and they made the framerate go down to 20fps! once i got the 
 169.01 it was no less than 50-60fps average.
  
  i highly recommend JERICHO. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spectralmerc
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 28, 2007 8:23 pm PT
Review:  I am one of Clive Barker's biggest fans. I own the whole collection of Books of Blood, seen all 
 Hellraisers (despite most of them being lame and mostly unconnected) read Imajica and Abarat and 
 enjoyed Lord of Illusions. Heck, I even passed Undying twice. So, as you may think, I was pretty 
 worked up about this game. The graphics were spectacular, the combat was fast and furious, the 
 characters were unique and the gameplay was interesting.
  
  But I assume you want honest review. Very well then, here goes.
  
  Jericho's about the Firstborn, 
 mainly. They were God's first try at creating a being at h is own image, but the power of that 
 being scared him off, causing him to banish them into The Abyss. Ever since, they have been trying 
 to come back, and every time a group of 7magic warriors (a Jericho squad) must go and close the 
 gate that opens whenever someone manages to do so.
  
  So, essentially you must go through 5 different time spaces seeking to destroy the Firstborn.
 
  
  Now, the Jericho squad is just awesome. Abigail Black, the team sniper, can direct bullets with 
 her mind. Billie Church, the swordswoman can paralyze enemies with a blood ward, and Frank Delgado, 
 heavy weapons guy, can summon a flame dragon spirit. All of this is very cool, and it gives you 
 plenty of combat choices, but its effect on puzzles or level design is practically null. However, 
 the things you shoot at... well, no other game has a more twisted bestiary, thats for sure. Though 
 you may get tired at times of killing the same cultists, it is a fact that most of the time you'll 
 be glad you just lay waste to those creatures. The charring and disfiguration they've suffered 
 is worthy of the deepest recesses of hell. And that's funny, because despite being labeled as a 
 horror game, and with beasts that are without a doubt scary, the game falls incredibly short on 
 pure horror or even tension moments. Maybe it is because once the action starts, it never stops 
 until you've had enough of it. The combat is mind numbingly fast, and while it isn't nerve wrackingly 
 hard, it gets a bit old after you slice your 1000th cultist.
  
  The environments will keep you going though. The graphics are a winning ticket here, and they are 
 not only incredibly scalable, but also strikingly detailed. Everything projects shadows accordingly, 
 and the use of bloom and specular is impeccable. The textures are outstandingly crisp and the lighting 
 effects are superb.
  
  Sound, however, could have been a bit better. While is nicely done as for ambient sounds and gunfight, 
 the monster's growls are your typical, run-of-the-mill rawrs and grrrrs.
  
  Voice acting suits the game just fine, and sometimes the lines are delivered with enthusiasm, sometimes 
 they do not. But you won't mind that. The cinematic moments are good enough to keep you there 
 
  
  There is also a good batch of extras to keep you occupied (37 of them imply repeating the game-unless 
 you play it on hard from the beginning)
  
  P. S: Is short. Damn short. An experienced FPS player like me passed it on 8 hours or so. But tell 
 you what? It was worth the money.
  
  SEMI SPOILER AHEAD:
  
  WARNING!!!
  
  LAST WARNING!!!!
  
  
  The major gripe I have with this game is its ending. Despite having 
 a great story and decent characters, the ending really kills the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: reddevilofhell
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 28, 2007 7:02 pm PT
Review:  One of the game which comes under FPS generation but with an original concept and gameplay. A great 
 storyline, and an interesting way of making users use tactics. Which are provided in an intelligent 
 way through the six members of the Jericho team.
  U get to know which member to use when, and voila, u get past the gameplay.
  
  Full marks for 
 its original concept , visuals, and gameplay quality. (Watch for the motion blurs, they are really 
 cool)
  
  This game keeps u at the edge of the seat. Simply fun and great.
  
  If u guys looking for an fps, without the normal run and shoot, i think u could try this game, 
 with all the different characters, each one with their own specializations, u are ought to find 
 one which describes u best.
  
  Good Luck 
::::::

::::::
UserName: _KwispY
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 28, 2007 5:25 pm PT
Review:  When I had begun to play Jericho, (even in the demo stages) I pretty much dismissed the game as 
 an all flash, no substance generic shooter. In all honesty, thats what it is, a shooter. The sqaud 
 mechanics don't really do much for the game, and the psychic powers add some variety now and again, 
 but they don't drastically revolutionize the fps formula by no means. This is not necessarily a 
 bad thing. People play a first person shooter to shoot things, and you get to do that. The shooting 
 is pretty satisfying mainly due to interesting blood effects and kill animation, but the weapons 
 are very stale. Having a squad means the every member is given a set weapon, and power, leaves 
 some room for improvement. I understand trying to give each member a special character, but it 
 actually makes the game less fun. Every character should be able to use different weapons, and 
 the difference between the Jericho members should have been the implementation of psychic powers. 
 As far as the story is concerned, its there, but i don't feel like its really essential to the 
 game. It just gives a reason to push onward with your generic horror religious plot. FPS however 
 are note known for their amazing stories, so this too is not exactly a bad thing. Overall, the 
 game amounts to a pretty average, but enjoyable shooter experience. If one goes in with an open 
 mind and low expectations they would be sure to like the game. Perhaps the inclusion of multiplayer 
 would have helped, but I do not believe it would have been very interesting after seeing the game 
 mechanics of the single player. This is a fun game to play when while waiting for some of the great 
 November releases. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: welroon
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 28, 2007 12:46 pm PT
Review:  First of all I'd like to say I think this game is getting a lot of undeserved negative publicity. 
 In my opinion it is fun, innovative and puts a new twist on first person gaming. The graphics are 
 pretty impressive if you have a decent comp to run it and a good mid range to high end video card. 
 The sound is also impressive with really good voice overs and atmospheric music that fits the game 
 perfectly. The monsters in this game are creepy and very well done. Sure they do seem to come straight 
 at you most of the time and I agree they are hard to kill but I think this makes the game more 
 challenging. Being able to switch between any member on your team and use their differen't abilities (which 
 are pretty cool by the way) is the best part of the game. They all have unique personalities and 
 abilities which make you become sort of attached to them as you play through the game. I think 
 the concept of the game is really cool and definitely portrays Clive Barker's creative genius in 
 the horror genre. Bottom line is if you like Clive Barker and his type of storytelling then you 
 will love this game. If you don't then you probably won't as it may seem a little too weird or 
 sick for some people. I haven't played through the whole game yet but what I have played so far 
 has really impressed me. I'm a horror nut and when you combine that with FPS which I also love 
 you can't go wrong. All in all I think this game is a great game which will please some and turn 
 away others who may not like this kind of game. I for one am pleased and give it two thumbs up!!! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LoatheMe
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 30, 2007 7:49 pm PT
Review:  the graphics and atmosphere are great. concept and design are are really good as far as enemies, 
 locations, and the teams powers and etc. the downside is the game is as linear as it gets and everything 
 is completely scripted, though as you play more it does get more challenging and interesting. playing 
 just a little into the game can be misleading as at first you can only control one character and 
 the initial fights are pretty repetitive, but once you gain full access to your team the game really 
 starts to pick up. despite it sometimes having that railed shooter feel, the imaginative team abilities 
 and horror movie feel of it have me hooked. if you're a big fan of horror games you will most likely 
 enjoy it, but for people seeking a typical fps with more freedom of action and exploration it might 
 not be for you. *edit - game loses half a point for ridiculously disappointing final boss and ending. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rsimeono
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 28, 2007 8:54 am PT
Review:  The title says it all. The game is very fun and is getting bad rep from lame critics. Not that 
 I take their word at face value but in the case of Jericho they are spewing more hate than usual. 
 I guess Codemasters does not cater to some of the lame online review sites. Anyways I have the 
 PC version and the game is a lot of fun and very well made. It just feels right when you play it. 
 Do not belive the critics it is a great game. Unfortunately it may get lost in the multitude of 
 excellent shooter coming out shortly for PC. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dixienarco
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 28, 2007 12:43 am PT
Review:  it's a classic. no doubt.
  having been a devoted gamer since the eighties i'd say this rank as one of the top twenty gaming 
 experiences. if you like a tight first person shooter with lots of quirks and character development 
 this is as good as it comes. and they use rough language. yay!
  the graphic is breathtaking. not just effect vise, but also very well put together.
  i've got 
 an nvidia 8800 (cheaper kind) and the frame rate is top notch.
  and no quick save! brilliant!
  otherwise you just walk through a game. nice to look at but no real 
 excitement. (half life.. and most of the fps's unfortunately) . GOOD FUN i'd say!!
  
  on the downside you've got the somewhat sloppy ending.
  but hey, it's the journey not the arrival 
 that matters. right?
  
  keep the faith!
  4ever northern soul 
::::::

::::::
UserName: XLAXXLV
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 28, 2007 12:11 am PT
Review:  One of the better FPS Horror games on the current market.
  
  Storyline is interesting and deep.
  
  Creatures are original and disturbing at times.
  
 
  Landscape is detailed and gritty.
  
  Squad members are fun, adult oriented, and a blast to jump into :P
  
  Alot of good old fashioned 
 blood and gore.
  
  Nice assortment of weapons, thanks to your teammates :)
  
  The whole idea of possession of your squad members is fun and interesting.
  
  Ability to rescue 
 your fallen squad member is great so you can pretty much always stay in the thick of battle, instead 
 of re-loading constantly when you die.
  
  If you enjoy survival horror games, pick this up! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 10010011010010
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 27, 2007 8:58 pm PT
Review:  when jericho was first announced and the first 2 videos popped up, you see this character in chains 
 and u start to think that this might me one, if not the significant character in the game... new 
 picture with the jericho team and smaller enemys (children) appear, and by the short videos with 
 the marilyn manson character and the things he says u start making up a story... he is in the first 
 two trailers, he is on the cover so you are happy to finally fight him... ehhh NO ! Instead you 
 got this lame firstborn as your endboss, abrupt &amp; unimpressive ending and b4 that no manson 
 dude, not even the leach guy (yes, he needed to drain his powers, still lame though, would like 
 ross to take his revenge on him for killing him) . Story is greate, gfx is great, i like the game, 
 but advertising to those who are waiting for the game from day one, have killed some hopes and 
 imagery we had made for the game. Means that what may look very unimportand to those who just got 
 the news a couple of weeks or months ago and to those who are waiting for AGES for a new clive 
 barker game, every character and line told is importand (you just cant drop/erase that) . Huge Clive 
 Barker and Hellraiser fan, always interested in the storys of every character (undying was also 
 a great game) , you just cant make a game and advertise pinhead and have pinhead in ur trailers 
 telling things and then cut that out, can u &acute; codemasters developers.. i hate you guys... 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: r2d2c3p0
Rating: 4
Date: Oct 27, 2007 5:24 pm PT
Review:  You'd think that a game with with wonderful graphics, good sound, a good storyline, excellent control 
 and Clive Barkers name behind it would be a sure winner. The game play-es very well and I have 
 an older computer -- 32bit 3GHzPentium with a 6800GT.
  
  I'm getting no satisfaction from trying to kill a bunch of mindless zombies who are walking straight 
 at me. The only challenge is that my weapons lack any punch so it takes a lot of bullets to bring 
 one down. Often they kill me first which zaps me into one of my squad mates who is usually facing 
 the wrong direction and is instantly killed which zaps me into another squad mates who is facing 
 the wrong way and is instantly killed etc.. etc.. etc.
  
  The gameplay is almost like Serious Sam except Serious Sam is better.
  
  Often I just blast 
 away and blast away until I die -- restart from the last check point -- blast away again until 
 I die and restart again until somehow by sheer luck after many retries I defeat the enemy.
  
  The A. I. on my squad mates seems good but my weapons lack of punch and enemies that are brain 
 dead --- well this may be a long game....... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SoylentGreen183
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 27, 2007 9:19 am PT
Review:  Pluses
  ----------
  Amazing graphics, superb camera movement and focus, motion blur is excellent. Team-based action 
 that actually feels like it is useful. The story is interesting and the game play is very fun. 
 I love the ability to switch between the squad mates and use their individual powers.
  
  Minuses
  ------------
  Console-like save system.
  
  Bottom Line
  -----------------
 
  I play a lot of games, a lot, and this is my current favorite. I personally think Jericho is more 
 fun than BioShock, HL2: Episode 2, Potal (and I really liked Portal) , Quake Wars, TF2, The Hellgate 
 London Beta (maybe it's a tie) , Crysis Beta (hopefully the single player game is better) , and NWN2: 
 MoTB. I think I've purchased about 7 games in the last 45 days, and the best purchase was Jericho. 
 I would have scored Jericho a perfect 10 if it wasn't for the check point-based save system. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gwarpup
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 26, 2007 10:28 pm PT
Review:  I suppose for some reason Gamespot doesnt like Clive Barker or had some falling out with the Developers 
 since this game has been out awhile now and Gamespot has virtually ignored its comming. Well on 
 with my review.. The game is good, and in some cases as good if not better than Bioshock. The various 
 ablities are really unique and varied with plenty of options for how to complete areas in the game. 
 The game is very lively too with lots of characters that are lovingly Motion Captured and expressive. 
 You meet alot of interesting people throughout the game and see lots of story bits come together. 
 Which leads me to describe the graphics more. It really is all like a live action cut scene taking 
 place all the time, thus when there is a cutscene, everything is seamless and they look pre-rendered. 
 Every character is outstandingly modeled and animated, when battles are happening you really get 
 the sense of being in a very well animated film like Final Fantasy spirits within, or in more brutal 
 moments like being in 28 Weeks Later. AIs are good too, enemies bob and weave as they run at you, 
 hide around corners, and use alot of suprise abilities on you too and are just grisly to behold 
 in action and they get up in your face alot! The story is prettty interesting, less predictable 
 than Bioshock and really meeting the many characters throughout the game is the best part of it. 
 They are very fun to interact with and some involve the mini-direction-click game which is used 
 pretty well in these instances. Ya they are kinda annoying, but I prefer them over not getting 
 the cool animated sequences at all, or just idely watching them. They arent too hard, takes maybe 
 5/6 times for the harder ones and the animations are really fun to see. This game is getting alot 
 of bad press for some reason. I really dont know why, its very polished and really the engine blows 
 away anything I've seen on the Unreal Engine, although it is more limited in ways, like not being 
 able to jump is annoying. Its kinda like one of those Resident Evil survival horror kinda limitations. 
 But the engine the game works in is really really NICE in the way it integrates its motion captured 
 animations into the gameworld very much like a very stylish anime, but without removing you from 
 the game like other games that have cutscenes. Its very next gen, it doesnt look like an old game 
 in any parts. Group AI is good too, but not the best. As good as most other games like GRAW, they 
 get taken down if left too much on their own to fight for you, which is why you shouldnt and why 
 your the one playing the game and not them. Otherwise itd be way too easy. Its good and challenging, 
 the boss fights are fun, and proceeding the story is a blast. Music and Sound is very good too, 
 creepy strangeness abounds.
  
  Thus the only bad thing I can say is that theres no multiplayer, but Bioshock had the same limitation. 
 Jericho at least has battles play out more differently each time due to the many characters fighting 
 at once and much more challenging that Bioshock which I found just too easy even on hardest Which 
 i played first in that game. Jericho is really creepy disgusting like Clive Barker is known for. 
 Thinking up the stuff that really gets under your skin is his forte, and its everywhere throughout 
 Jericho. I would like to see him use an engine like this to tell more horror stories in the future! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: daedalusid
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 26, 2007 4:15 pm PT
Review:  I'm not a fan of senseless shooters, I never enjoyed a game where you have to kill everything that 
 moves, but for some reason I couldn't get enough of Jericho.
  The game starts you off in the fictional Al Khalid desert with a sever man team on a mission, to 
 capture one Arnold Leach. As you make your way trough the ruins and different time zones, you slowly 
 find out what Jericho is.
  The graphics top notch with a depth of field that was amazing, well made characters and surroundings 
 that mixed beauty and macabre very well.
  The game-play started off as a run of the mill shooter with not to bright AI, but they saved it 
 a little with the individual powers and weapons of each character and the boss fights that added 
 a little old-school flavor.
  Sounds and voice acting are good without to much repetition and the music sinister enough to raise 
 a few hairs and very atmospheric.
  Overall it's not such a bad game but it has a replay value of zero.
  
  The good: great graphics, 
 interesting game-play mechanics, interesting story
  The bad: AI challenged enemies and overdone scripted cut-scenes. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Homes225
Rating: 6.5
Date: Oct 27, 2007 1:27 pm PT
Review:  Story: You and your team of powered special forces are sent to stop Leach and The Firstborn.
  
  Graphics: Dark but nice.
  
  Audio: Repeatitive.
  
  Missions: Mainly kill baddies, get 
 past puzzle, kill boss.
  
  Controls: Remappable for better use...
  
  Features: New powers compared to other games, puzzles make you think.
  
  A. I.: Not the smartest 
 for a shooter.
  
  Loading Times: Lots and Lots of them.
  
  Multiplayer: None.
  
  Requirements: Medium High.
  
  Weapons: Each character has only one to two weapons and two powers.
 
  
  The Good: Better than you may think.
  
  The Bad: Short, Beat it in 2 sittings.
  
  The Ugly: The gore. Very original.
  
  Replay Ability: Low.
  
  The Bottom Line: 
::::::

::::::
UserName: beckoflight
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 26, 2007 12:01 pm PT
Review:  1st i want to say that this game can not be a non-liniar expierence i've seen some reviews from 
 some sites &amp; well they aren't right ////because the game is based on Clive Barker's story .... 
 so it has a plot , a beggining &amp; an end ... thats the way of all great novels ! I have just 
 finished the game today 26-oct 2007 &amp; it tooked me 9 hours &amp; the fact is that because of 
 the supremly solid gameplay i just couldn't get out of my chair .... the story unfolds with style 
 the voice acting is at the top of the class &amp; the presentation just WOOW .... i'm so happy 
 that the guys that made Scrapland used theyr own engine that in his own way of style &amp; technology 
 surpasses the unreal 3 engine .... the colors are so real ... the effects are realistic &amp; the 
 sounds especially the ambience music is shooking ..... its like your in a bad dream ! The gameplay 
 is in someways innovative this is the 1st FPS/ tactical that uses the interactive cutscene system 
 like in God of War or Tomb Raider Anniversery .... but i just can not explain in what depth the 
 animation &amp; the feeling is done in such a situation that leaves you breathless .... you olso 
 can control your to teams alpha &amp; omega each team member is different ... each of them has 2 
 abilietes &amp; different kinds of unique weapons &amp; do not woory you will net each one to get 
 past some obstacles or to defeat some enemies .... for exemple Church can perform some scripted 
 prince of persia tricks ( eye candy ) ... to get to the other side of a rippedoff bridge ..... 
 Delgato the pyro can walk on fire in some areas &amp; can lift heavy stuf like gates &amp; so on 
 ! There are evan some mini puzzles &amp; superb boss battles in wich you have to understand &amp; 
 figure out the way to kill that particular boss &amp; ow &amp; the enemies are well mosnters &amp; 
 in concept they are unique but not only they know how to flank to take cover &amp; you will be 
 surprised by the way they apraoch you ! Alltough the game is an horror i only have gotten scred 
 2 times ... the rest of the gameplay is highly choatic but stil tactical non the less &amp; you 
 will get most of your thrills from the adrenaline rush that the income hordes of mosters will allways 
 provede &amp; be sure this game is a challenge in some situations ....&amp; just writing this review 
 i remebered that the most succesfull games in history have scripted/liniar storylines ( HALF-LIFE 
 , FEAR , Prince of Persia , etc. ) so i still don't know why ppl are complaining ! By the time 
 that all of the oficial review sites will play the game &amp; speak out theyir impresisons about 
 it the game will be underrated but do not be fooled its a solid , innovative experience that you 
 will never forget &amp; yes its 1one of Clive Barker's best storyies yet ! Try it out .... you 
 have tactics , you have magic , you have thrils &amp; story an allmost perfect game but here &amp; 
 there it has its flaws like .... the autoaim mode that is more suited for console &amp; the bad 
 optimization of the engine that can create probles evan for Crossfire &amp; SLi systems ... i've 
 played it on a 2900 XT with a solid 50+ framerate but from time to time here &amp; there it makes 
 a sudden stop ! Just play the game you won't be disappointed ! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spacedog1973
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 26, 2007 11:28 am PT
Review:  Wow - this game actually delivers. You know its like clothing or trainers that don't have the right 
 make? They feel comfortable and look stylish - but just don't have that brand name. So you don't 
 know how you should feel..
  
  Well, feel free! This game is teh awesome! No doubt! Part way through playing it, you're thinking 
 - is it really this good? Because you can't really believe it.
  
  I'm not coming from one of the horror game freak clubs, I hate horror games - games that scare 
 me into never playing them. But this, dear reader, is a game I can play. Sure, it isn't frightening, 
 but as a team of super soldiers trained to destroy hell spawn, it wouldn't really fit would it, 
 for them to be scared?
  
  Instead, you'd feel some adrenalin, the occasional shock and surprise - but not all out fear. The 
 graphics are nice, just pause once in a while and have a look around and see the detail in the 
 backgrounds, or on the character models and their weapons. Look at the explosions, the special 
 effects and listen to the moody sound. You become and are able to control each of the characters, 
 each with their own unique powers that can effect the game. Probably you'll settle with one that 
 you are familiar with, like I settled with Black, a woman with a sniper rifle with a grenade launcher 
 underslung it. Not forgetting her kinetic powers which not only are able to move objects, but can 
 control the path of her bullets in 'slo-time'.
  
  Each character has something similar, which is both awesome and fun. Imagine taking your normal 
 FPS, maybe rainbow Six, and changing the setting to...... Hell. That's Jericho. If you like team 
 shooters and have always wanted to play a horror game, but not alone, not running through corridors 
 alone and in the dark, but instead with a squad of team-mates each with unique powers that you 
 can change to at will, then Jericho is the one for you.
  
  So, when you see these independent reviews with completely different slants, different takes on 
 a game like this - my view is that they just don't get it. Like that kid who wears the comfortable 
 and stylish bargain basement trainers. He gets it.
  
  Now its your turn. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stormheart
Rating: 7
Date: Oct 26, 2007 11:24 am PT
Review:  I wanted to love this. I really did. Great graphics, great sound, great atmosphere, memorable characters, 
 excellent story. It had all the makings of a great game - then I played it for a couple of hours. 
 There is one thing about this that utterly ruins anything else the game had going for it: The friendly 
 AI is absolutely _retarded_. For a squad based game, I'd think they would have done some more to 
 make your friendlies a little more 'I' and a little less 'A'. A great example is grenades; now, 
 ever since Half-Life, and probably before, computer controlled characters generally got _away_ 
 from grenades, weather or not they were allied or not (once you pull the pin, Mr. Grenade is no 
 longer your friend) . Not so in this. If you're playing the character so armed, you can pull and 
 lob grenades as normal (the mechanic for throwing them is a little warped; more realistic than 
 the 'hold until ready' that other games use, but still a pain) however, your squadmates completley 
 ignore the shrill-voiced 'Grenade!' or 'Frag Out!' or whatever she says - in fact, they completly 
 ignore the blinky little block of death you just flung out; bad if you're using timed bombs, even 
 worse if you're using prox mines. If you happen to do something unusual with the grenades like, 
 say, _throw them at the enemy_, the squaddies just keep running forward to try and get at the enemy 
 before it does - usually overrunning it and getting caught in it's blast. There is a command to 
 tell your squad to stay put; but I find this doesn't work more often than not. As soon as they 
 see an enemy, or if you move more than a few feet ahead of them, they just fall back into their 
 disobedient ways. I've found most of the firefights are just made all the more annoying because 
 you're not just managing the enemies, but trying to keep your own squadmates out of your field 
 of fire - even as they stand there and get shot at by the enemies as well. It's just sad that this 
 game did so many things _right_, but this one issue stands out so much. It'd easily have gotten 
 a 9 from me apart from this. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rulzmaker
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 26, 2007 6:08 am PT
Review:  I started to play the game since yesterday. At first it seemed quite nice, the graphics are excellent, 
 nothing to say about that, the sound effects are very good, still, nothing to say about that, but 
 the game is chaotic. I am in a town Al-Khali, and i start to kill somekind of zombies. What i've 
 played untill now were just two kinds of those zombies, some that dies if you shoot them and some 
 that have some yellow things on them and need to shoot those to kill them. The game is chaotic, 
 why ? It's easy, you are trapped in that town i told you above, with no real objective, you just 
 kill, revive team members, kill some more. You don't know where to go, and if you do, you don't 
 know why you're going. The story is pfft ! Too bad the producers made the game look so excellent, 
 but the storyline and gameplay kinda stinks. I remember Clive Barker's Undying, which was great 
 by the way, but this has no comparison with that one. I am really disappointed. I hope that in 
 the future producers may take note about this. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AnarchyRising
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 26, 2007 3:52 am PT
Review:  What I typically look for in a self proclaimed next-gen game is graphics and effects before the 
 game play. I'm a pixel pusher by profession so that's just the way it is.
  
  Jericho is completely awesome for graphics, effects, atmospherics and just about every aspect of 
 visuals.
  
  The blurs are near perfect in the distance; the storm in the beginning level is amazing looking 
 at high res on max settings; the models are unbelievably realistic; and the gore is something to 
 die for (not literally) .
  
  However; if you are weak in stomach or heart, go play Rollercoaster tycoon.
  
  The enemies 
 can be decapitated, gutted, or ripped apart which actually gives rewards (50 decapitations unlocks 
 an extra, for example) .
  
  The audio is pretty good although the starter machine gun has sort of a weak fire sound (the shotgun 
 attachment is descent though) . The voice overs are well enacted and the positional quality is good 
 also. In 5.1 surround someone speaking from the rear left, comes from the rear left so it doesn't 
 sound like an emulation method.
  
  The game play is typical of pretty much any FPS with some added bonuses. The occult stuff for example, 
 which can be compared to magic in fantasy RPGs, is a fun addition. Besides that, it's pretty much 
 shoot enemies, move to the next checkpoint, rinse and repeat.
  
  All in all this is a sweet game especially if you like occult style end of days geared games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: billjacksonn
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 31, 2008 7:11 pm PT
Review:  If you're a fan of scary first person shooters like F. E. A. R., Doom 3, and the like, this game tops 
 them im many ways. The graphics are super pretty, and it looks like it uses the Unreal 3 engine, 
 but it's actually a different engine. For a horror shooter, there's a lot of action here, not a 
 lot of quiet time. It's all very satisfying though, and I found my heart racing over and over while 
 getting into this game. It's a unique experience to have the most hideous creatures coming out 
 of places you never would expect, and to have to battle them while being disgusted at their appearance 
 and movements. Sounds are perfect. The ai of your team can be less than realistic at times, but 
 to take control of them is a very cool feature that helps to make up for it for the most part.
 
  The monsters sound like they came straight from hell. Top notch voiceovers for the most part (except 
 the intro) , help make the game believeable. The storyline is pretty cool too, Clive Barker wrote 
 it, what do you expect! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dexfx69
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 25, 2007 10:33 pm PT
Review:  After playing Undying, Clive Barker's last first person game, I was scared that his new game would 
 not beat the quality of Undying. I was WRONG!
  
  This game offers intense battle action with unique weapons and magic. The characters are very unique, 
 and the battle system of choosing who in your troop that you wish to use... that's very cool. The 
 atmospheres are incredibly creepy. This game is perhaps the scariest pc game ever.
  
  This game's refreshing, I can see why it's selling so well. The graphics are excellent, the gameplay 
 and story are engaging. Just don't play it with the lights off, unless you have extra pampers around!!! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: baseq_2001
Rating: 5
Date: Oct 25, 2007 3:51 am PT
Review:  For the beginning i was impressed, but then the excitement was gone while advancing trough the 
 game. I'm sorry, i waited so long for another Clive Barker story to be transposed in a game like 
 Undying, but it seems to me that the they failed... it has no substance and the new team stuff 
 isn't the greatest thing i saw... the game is pour, but the story is great... so are the graphics. 
 The monsters bored me, the click and shoot, likewise. I'm really sorry for buying this game... 
 maybe I expected too much from it. It was my fault, i've should have played the demo first. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dreammosaic
Rating: 7
Date: Oct 24, 2007 4:50 pm PT
Review:  The game wasn't too bad overall. I am glad I played it on Gametap instead of buying it though, 
 I finished it within 10 hours easily and there is very little replay value. The squad AI is pretty 
 weak, you can order them over and over to move to a point and they will just stand there being 
 killed. There was little horror in the game, it was very gory but that was about it. The story 
 wasn't bad, just wasn't frightening. The ending was blah, it really needed more to it! Another 
 bad thing was the characters weapons resetting when you switch between them. You would have to 
 sit and select firing rate/bullet type in the middle of battle if you want to go back to the first 
 character, costing you 3-5 seconds of standing around, usually resulting in your bloody death. 
 The game play was pretty good, using cover is a must in a lot of fights. Having mystical reloads 
 of your gun is a nice change from constantly having to scrounge for ammo. You can still run out 
 at some points but your team is generally quick to call in more supplies. The different squad members 
 give you a variety of ways to play, most people should find one they use a lot that fits their 
 style. Improved AI and easier squad commands would go along way to improving things. I enjoyed 
 the game but it wasn't a great horror game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: guppieface
Rating: 7
Date: Oct 24, 2007 2:49 pm PT
Review:  a disappointing product- if playing the demo didnt warn you, play the demo again. graphics are 
 ps2 quality, switching from squad member to squad member is great, although some of the teammate 
 powers seem awkward and even some attacks such as the sword attack seem awkward. i loved the ps2 
 game the thing, and this game reminds me somewhat of it, but jericho isnt as good- the enemies 
 are all similar looking and dumb, and its too bad the production values are not so high because 
 this kind of game had a lot of promise ala resident evil 4. i love horror games, and this one was 
 a letdown. 7/10 just because i love horror games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fnordx
Rating: 6.5
Date: Oct 24, 2007 8:10 am PT
Review:  This game can be more easily described as a Me Too game. You have the quicktime events, the sorta-squad 
 based, ported-over-from-a-console shooter. There isn't much wrong with the plot, it's actually 
 fairly interesting, and that's the only thing that's causing me to want to continue to play this 
 game. It's actually got less gameplay than Doom3. Paths are linear, with no way for you to get 
 lost, or explore, or feel interested in the environment in the least.
  
  The sound is, in a word, lousy. Generic sounding guns, all character dialog taking place over radio, 
 even when there is someone standing right next to you. It's almost as if you've got a big pair 
 of mufflers on your ears.
  
  The quicktime events are used to little good effect in this game, with some of them taking dozens 
 of deaths before you can get past them, even if you follow the on-screen instructions. They make 
 me angry... SOOO ANGRY!
  
  If it wasn't for Clive Barker's name attached to this game, it would be a bargain bin title. There's 
 nothing new about this title, and the things that are recycled from other games aren't used effectively 
 enough to warrant anyone but the hardest of hardcore console FPSers to pick it up. The PC version, 
 which can't be rented, should be avoided, if at all possible. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Alecard
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 23, 2007 8:21 pm PT
Review:  Story- Its a great horror story, but not the silent hill type, its not the get scared in the dark 
 type, is the get atacked by alot of horrific monsters nonstop type.
  I wont spoil the actual strory, because its great and it wont end as you would think. Also its 
 longer then the adverage FPS close to 20 hours.
  
  Graphics- They are great 2007 for sure, and it runs great on my Geforce 7950 GT OC, with all setting 
 beside shadows on max, at 40-60 FPS. Lots of blood and gore, and the cool thing, (something i havent 
 seen before) is that some of the monsters come really close (if you let them) to bite your head 
 off, it looks awesome.
  
  Sound- Now here is where the game excels, the voice acting is awesome, theres always some banter 
 between the different squad members, so you never fell alone, also the music is top notch, between 
 it and the roars and moans of the monsters it will seriosly freak you out.
  
  Final Toughts- Its a great game, posible top 10 this year, if you were on the fence up to now, 
 get off it and come play this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kelllvin
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 23, 2007 7:57 pm PT
Review:  With great graphic amd gameplay, this game surely make it to the top ten, hell it might even be 
 the next GOTY!!!
  
  Sound:
  The sound is itself deserve an award. The way the demons roar and the bloody children ghost cries 
 are downright creepy. The music orchestral too are awesome.
  
  Gameplay:
  Gameplay mechanics are great. Love the way how you could possess each member and use each member 
 unique ability to counter enemies attack such as using Church's blood scribe to stunt enemy that 
 are too fast or too strong and then using Black's telekenetics sniper round for headshots or using 
 Cole ability to possess monster to fight each other.
  
  Replay value:
  The replay value of this game is well................ ok.. just like any other horror game, nonetheless 
 still a great game with a great story. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: OmegaNemesis28
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 23, 2007 7:51 pm PT
Review:  The game I just got halfway through on STEAM.
  
  Surprisingly, the game is actually a very smooth and fun game to play.
  
  The graphics are 
 deep and plentyful of gore. The game's mood is instantly set from upon a new game as the stage 
 is set for one hell of a trip through hell. While I had played the demo, it ran crappy even on 
 my SLI 8800 GTX rig, now as retail version it runs like it's nothing! It's so smooth and only FPS 
 breaks when loading the next area. Loading times inbetween each stage is surprisingly fast.
  
  The game's story is pretty decent and deep as far as I've come. The voice casting definitely 
 puts the story into great perspective. (I love Captain Ross' voice actor as he did the anime s-Cry-ed 
 and Company of Heroes) Up until my point in the game, about mid way, the story definitely has entertained 
 me. Not many do.
  
  Gameplay wise, the game can get really fun surprisingly. The demo got me worried as it seemed clunky 
 but again - that was the demo. Now it seems that the gameplay in FPS/Horror genre has almost hit 
 the nail on the head now. Swapping between each character to get different abilities is a fun aspect.
 
  
  The audio is on the spot with my 5.1 surround sound setup with X-Fi Fat1ty Gamer card. Everything 
 seems so lively. With the bass and speakers up high, the lights off, you can't go wrong with the 
 game.
  
  So far, the game has yet to disapoint me in any way. I'm glad I bought the game off STEAM and the 
 date was set back to today. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Crylio
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 23, 2007 12:14 pm PT
Review:  Spectacular debut for Mercury Steam ! Story : A scenario written by Clive Barker. Can't say more 
 about it.
  Graphics : I was extremely surprised. Very detailed in technologically progressive cooridor FPS 
 . Runs 40 - 60 FPS maxed on C2D E6750 / 4GB OCZ PC-6400 / 8800GTX. Optimization is terrific, I 
 must say. Didn't notice any normal physics, but I think that u don't need it in CBJ.
  Sound : As for CBJ's audio, it's also quite impressive overall, but not nearly like the graphics. 
 Also it has badass furious action and you'll not stop 'till u kill the last monster I swear you 
 !
  Keep that going Mercury ! 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
