-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Clive Barker's Undying
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/action/clivebarkersundying/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Feb 16, 2001
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 9.1
Critic Score: 8.5, 38 Review (s)
User Score: 8.9, 1,734 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Electronic Arts
Developer: Dreamworks Games
Genre: Fantasy First-Person...
Date:     Feb 21, 2001 &raquo;  
ESRB: Mature

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Undying has superb graphics, truly impressive sound effects, and fast-paced, enjoyable action sequences. 
 The entire game is very atmospheric, and a lot of fun to play. 

 Occasionally you get to play the sort of game that makes you realize how long it's been since the 
 last time you experienced anything quite so good. Inspired by the work of a noted horror-fiction 
 author, Clive Barker's Undying is a horror-themed first-person shooter -- a straightforward-enough 
 concept, and yet one that's never been executed as well as it was in id Software's revolutionary 
 1993 shooter, Doom. It's true that Undying doesn't ship with the one feature that gave Doom its 
 longevity -- a multiplayer mode -- but Undying does manage to evoke much of Doom's suspense and high 
 intensity. That's because Undying has superb graphics, truly impressive sound effects, and fast-paced, 
 enjoyable action sequences. The entire game is very atmospheric and a lot of fun to play.      
      This ruined cathedral is one of the many impressive areas in Undying    

 Most of Undying takes place in a huge, haunted mansion on the coast of Ireland during the 1920s. 
 It's a rich, colorful, and often beautiful setting. The game uses the powerful Unreal 3D graphics 
 engine to render its strikingly detailed locations and realistic-looking characters. The mansion 
 itself is filled with flickering torchlight and ominous shadows, thick wooden doors, ornate decorations, 
 spiraling stairways, and, of course, many hidden dangers. In particular, besides the architecture 
 itself, the game's lighting and shadow effects are what make Undying look so convincing. The colored 
 lighting in the game is subtle and realistic, while the shadows cast by objects and characters 
 are equally well done. As you explore the darker recesses of the mansion, you'll be struck by just 
 how effectively the game manages to portray these foreboding areas. And when you venture outside 
 the confines of the mansion, you'll be equally impressed. In general, the scenery in Undying looks 
 so good that you'll enjoy simply being in it and taking it in.   

  Other aspects of Undying, such as its characters and special effects, look nearly as good. You 
 play as Patrick Galloway, an explorer and occultist who owes his life to an ailing man named Jeremiah 
 Covenant, the owner of the mansion. Covenant fears his family bears an evil curse and that his 
 four siblings have already fallen victim to it, and he summons Galloway to investigate the matter. 
 Galloway, Jeremiah, and his two brothers and two sisters all look great. These fully articulated 
 3D characters look realistic, but they are also memorably stylized. In addition, the various supernatural 
 creatures that Galloway faces during his dangerous mission also look very good. They're fluidly 
 animated, armed with razorlike claws and teeth, and look more frightening and ferocious the closer 
 they get -- and most every one of them will do its worst to get as close as possible, all the better 
 to put a quick and painful end to Galloway's life. You'll also face off against some more-conventional 
 foes, such as a band of wicked pirates -- but these too are exciting to fight, because of their lifelike 
 movements and their variety of attacks.   

  Though Undying looks excellent, its use of sound is what really makes the game seem to come alive. 
 Simply put, the sound in Undying is phenomenal. It's true that some of the voice acting can seem 
 a bit forced, but, more importantly, the atmospheric and environmental sounds used throughout the 
 game are varied, realistic, and extremely effective. As you explore the mansion, you might hear 
 the dull roar of a thunderstorm outside of the building, and the effect will change depending on 
 where you are. For instance, in the greenhouse, suddenly the sound of the rain becomes almost deafening 
 as it hammers the glass canopy high overhead. Meanwhile, you'll hear dangerous creatures lurking 
 in the darkness. The various weapons in the game also sound great: You can hear each round quickly 
 being loaded into your trusty revolver, which lets out a very loud bang each time it unloads a 
 chamber. When you connect with a ferocious strike from the powerful melee weapon you find later 
 on, you'll actually hear the sickening sound of flesh being torn, followed by blood spilling to 
 the ground. The sound really serves to enhance every aspect of the game; it's so good that an actual 
 soundtrack isn't used throughout most of Undying, though at the key instances when that game's 
 symphonic music does cue in, it's well suited to the particular scene.           Galloway confronts 
 the lighthouse man    

 Except during occasional noninteractive cinematic sequences, you'll see everything in Undying from 
 Galloway's perspective. He moves quickly, and during the course of the game he will gather more 
 than eight different weapons and eight miscellaneous magic spells. Generally, the game plays like 
 any recent shooter: You use the keyboard to run in different directions and the mouse to look around 
 and attack. You restore your health by collecting and using health packs or similar items. However, 
 there are some key differences in the gameplay that -- together with Undying's great atmosphere -- effectively 
 distinguish the game from most other shooters to date.   

  Specifically, the game features an interesting two-handed combat system: Galloway wields his various 
 weapons in his left hand and can simultaneously cast his spells with his right hand. This allows 
 for some great combinations: Early on, when ammunition for your revolver is very limited, you'll 
 need to take precise, calculated shots at your foes as they close in on you, and then you'll finish 
 them off with the swirling energy bolts of your ectoplasm spell. Later, you'll have more options 
 available. Galloway will find weapons such as the Tibetan war cannon, an enchanted ice-throwing 
 device in the shape of a snarling dragon; fiery Molotov cocktails; a powerful double-barreled shotgun; 
 and, best of all, the exceptionally deadly scythe of the Celts.    

 You can use these weapons in conjunction with the equally interesting assortment of spells you'll 
 learn, such as a haste spell that sends your heart racing and makes you much faster, and a shield 
 spell that creates a shimmering, semitransparent glasslike barrier in front of you. You'll even 
 be able to raise the corpses of your fallen foes to fight by your side. Galloway also gains an 
 impressive spell called skull storm, with which he can summon several leering, disembodied, cackling 
 skulls, which fidget angrily in his magical grip until they're finally unleashed in an explosive 
 blast. Spells cost mana to use, but you have a lot to work with, and it replenishes automatically 
 and rather quickly. Also, during the course of the adventure, you'll find hidden items that boost 
 both your maximum supply of mana and its rate of regeneration. You'll also find amplifying devices 
 that permanently boost the effectiveness of a designated spell, which gives you some options on 
 how you develop your combat skills over the course of the game.           The lost city of Oneiros 
 is filled with dangerous obstacles    

 These spells and weapons do a good job of showcasing the game's excellent special effects. For instance, 
 Galloway also possesses a scrying spell that enhances his vision by giving him both a limited ability 
 to see in the dark and the ability to trace any hidden supernatural forces nearby. The spell can 
 reveal valuable clues, and you'll know when to use it if you listen carefully, as Galloway can 
 sometimes hear faint, otherworldly whispering when he's in an enchanted or haunted area. Scrying 
 can all of a sudden reveal the ghosts of the past, and as with Galloway's other spells and weapons, 
 the effect of the scrying spell is very well done. Some of Galloway's spells have certain side 
 effects. For instance, while the shield spell is very powerful, the thick glassy barrier impairs 
 your peripheral vision to some extent; the barrier cracks as it absorbs damage, and finally shatters 
 with a loud crash. Blood pours from the blade of your scythe after each strike, and puddles of 
 blood flow from the corpses of your fallen enemies. You leave prints in the blood and can distinctly 
 hear the difference in the sound of your footfall when you're walking in it. When a monster strikes 
 you, your vision turns red and your perspective is violently thrown askew. There are many effective 
 details of this sort throughout Undying, and most all of them are noticeable and impressive.   
 

  Undying is fairly long for a single-player shooter, and virtually every moment of it is worthwhile. 
 However, some parts of the game can be somewhat less satisfying than the majority, and the game 
 does have a few other minor shortcomings. Patrick Galloway's entire adventure is mostly linear: 
 Doors in the mansion that you're not meant to go through at particular times are simply sealed 
 off (and there are many such doors) , which may seem frustrating even though it prevents you from 
 getting lost. You can save and load your game quickly and easily, and the game's loading times 
 are minimal, but Undying does often pause in between areas as the new levels are loaded up. Also, 
 the circular pop-up interfaces for selecting weapons and spells take some getting used to, though 
 once you're accustomed to them, they're a great alternative to the traditional shooter system of 
 switching through weapons with either the mousewheel or with keyboard hotkeys.           Heavy 
 snowfall helps Galloway mount an ambush against superior odds    

 Besides that, a few of the areas in the game seem incongruous with the occult theme of Undying. 
 The prehistoric-looking wilderness called the eternal autumn doesn't manage to evoke the same sense 
 of fear and awe as the hellish, otherworldly lost city of Oneiros from earlier in the adventure. 
 In addition to some of the shortcomings in the level design, some of weapons and spells in the 
 game are somewhat unbalanced. You'll find little use for your Molotov cocktails and possibly for 
 most of your other weapons once you get your hands on the scythe. When using either the haste spell 
 or the shield spell -- or both -- Galloway becomes virtually unstoppable with the scythe in hand. You 
 might find that the first portion of the game, in which you're relying heavily on your relatively 
 slow firearms and don't have access to the strongest spells, is much more challenging than later 
 portions. Regardless, you'll undoubtedly enjoy the intense one-on-one confrontations with Jeremiah's 
 siblings throughout the game. And so, while some sequences of the game are better than others, 
 the entire game is seamlessly interconnected and ultimately enjoyable from start to finish.   

 
  Clive Barker's Undying is a very well-done, polished, and memorable action game. Its horror elements 
 are convincing and effective, and its action elements are interesting and distinctive. The game's 
 great setting and its characters give it a real sense of context and purpose, and yet its intense 
 action sequences never leave this focus. Undying would be even better if it featured a multiplayer 
 mode that matched the high quality of the rest of the game (the developers are reportedly planning 
 to add a multiplayer option in a downloadable patch) . But even without one, Undying will undoubtedly 
 provide more than enough harrowing thrills to encourage you to play through the single-player game 
 repeatedly.    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (63 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Serpens6
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 11, 2009 6:28 pm PT
Review:  Clive Barker's first foray into gaming was ultimately a success and many people may already know 
 that, but you might not know that since you are reading this. This game exudes creepiness and is 
 one of the scarier games that I've played; however just know the graphics a little dated. The story 
 on the other hand will keep you intrigued and contains some nice twist that I will not reveal, 
 there's my anti-spoiler warning.
  
  First up will be the strongest aspect in my opinion is the story. In this game you play as Patrick 
 Galloway a man who didn't believe in the superstitious but then he got attacked by a warlock of 
 sorts. That kind of stuff changes your perspective and he became a well known expert of the paranormal 
 after his near death encounter. He got from this encounter the Gel'ziabar Stone which plays a pretty 
 important role in the overall story. He also believes Jeremiah Covenant is the man who saved his 
 life in the encounter and thus he owes his life to him. Jeremiah calls upon this debt and this 
 sets up the rest of the story. Most of the story is told through journal entries that you find 
 lying around and some fairly well done cutscenes. Also I would like to add Patrick is fairly likable 
 character. The story boils down to Patrick trying to protect Jeremiah this time and paying a visit 
 to each of the Covenant siblings who all supposedly died already and an outsider with a history 
 with Patrick named, Keisinger. The presentation of this entire story is well done and very well 
 paced, although there are a multitude of obvious monster fodder characters. 
  
  The graphics are dated, as to be expected. It uses the Unreal engine to a great effect and is able 
 to create a convincing environment and atmosphere. The character models are not too bad but the 
 animations for them are top-notch. Lizbeth I might note was one of my favorites. There is plenty 
 of blood in this game so if that's a problem keep that in mind, but it's a horror game so why would 
 you play it to begin with? The spell effects are well done too and help convey what they do and 
 what condition of said enchantment is at. One thing to keep in mind, like many Unreal powered games, 
 there is some occasional slow-down on multi-processor computers, unless you disable the affinities, 
 but it never reaches unplayable levels. 
  
  Sound design on this game is just brilliant! You might pause the game a couple of times just to 
 listen to menu music. The in-game is just as well done, it swells at important moments, occasionally 
 misleads you, and is quiet or limited to ambiance at the calm parts. The sound effects of pretty 
 much every object in the game is well-suited to make the player feel a little on edge and is great 
 to an idea as to where your assailants may be hiding. The weapons are accompanied but great effects 
 too, as normal weapons sound as you would expect and the stranger weapons will creep you out or 
 even scare you with their idle noises. Voice-acting is also big plus in this game, none of that 
 you need some time for it grow on you, the actors are competent and rarely will cringe at anything 
 they say unless they wanted to illicit that type of reaction. 
  
  Gameplay is where this game really shines with the tried and true WASD and mouse setup. It has 
 several unique weapons all with their own positives and negatives and some are more effective against 
 certain enemy types. Some examples are the Tibetan War cannon, it's a weapon with unlimited ammo 
 that will slow enemies down when it hits them, but it takes time to charge, pretty useless against 
 big enemies, and can damage you if you fire it too close to you. Patrick moves with ease and for 
 the most part feels like a normal agile human, until you get the magic spells. The spells add a 
 lot of charm to the game as you can level them up with objects hidden throughout the game called 
 amplifiers. Also hidden are health power-ups and a scroll that speeds up magic charging. Most of 
 the spells are useful, such as the shield spell and the skull spell. I was able to use all the 
 spells for the most part except lightning that seemed more or less a Zeus thunderbolt is to Kratos. 
 The bosses are a treat and a fun diversion to the normal gameplay. I also really enjoyed the build-up 
 to boss fights. None of the bosses felt very cheap, but they tend to have a very specific way to 
 kill. Also, a nice addition is that the bosses will show you that your attack is effective, barring 
 the last boss (he looks like he's getting hurt but you see the same animation for quite a while 
 and than after the twentieth times he finally keels over) . You can save anywhere and multiple saves 
 is a very good idea, as you might miss a secret and want to go back. Last but not least are the 
 enemy types, which just as you are getting tired of shooting howlers they change to something else 
 entirely, just like the stages they are set in. 
  
  So all in all this is a great game to try out and I would recommend it to pretty much anyone, but 
 the game has a severe lack of replayability. The game will take the average player 10-15 hours 
 to complete and does come with multiple difficulties and no multiplayer. The game was marked down 
 as easy simply because they give you way too many health packs and the save anywhere is a nice 
 feature but can make difficult moments into brief snippets of "Get the shot in" and then save. The 
 decision to the purchase of this game comes down to if you have ten dollars and a computer that 
 isn't six years old and desire a creepy game with good controls, then why not? 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: desmasic
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 20, 2009 2:47 pm PT
Review:  I remember watching the trailer for Undying in the 'extras' section of American MacGee's Alice. 
 I then remember playing the demo 5-6 times over the next 2 years since I couldn't find this game 
 back then. I then remember finally playing the game in 2004.. and I can tell you that it was worth 
 it.
  
  This game without doubt has the best atmosphere in horror/fps combo out there. Fading ghosts, screams 
 of women being ripped apart by Howlers, scrying to reveal the hidden past behind the Covenant family.. 
 it's all a perfect blend 'surprisingly' in an FPS (hard to do it the 'right way') .
  
  Our hero (player) is an ambidextrous fellow. Magic with one hand, weapons with another. The time 
 it takes you to reload that shotgun pretty much is spent dodging the enemies all scared. When you 
 finally reload, the shotgun blast has that pleasent sound and execution that just makes you grin 
 like a evil bastard. There are other weapons but shotguns in this game just kick ass.
  
  As long as you are in and around mayor, the game delivers the almost perfect blend of horror and 
 action. But I have no idea what the hell happened to the 'flow' of the game all of a sudden when 
 the developers decided to send you battleling a horde od Trsanti enemies out in the sun for a few 
 levels. That has to be the lamest part of the whole game.
  
  Luckily, the bad parts don't last long and you will be back to getting hunted by howlers (or shooting 
 them in the face with a shotgun) .
  
  
  All in all, a 'MUST PLAY' experience even in 2009. Graphics are superb, soundwork is excellent, 
 character models are brilliant, the horror theme stays the same and works quite well whenever you 
 come across it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Zenmaster2010
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 14, 2009 3:25 pm PT
Review:  This game has it all (for fans of Clive Barker even more so) . The game play and weapons are well 
 thought out and creative. Your ability to summon supernatural powers only enhances game play. The 
 settings are diverse, and the story line is better than most other horror/action titles I have 
 played. Try out Undying, it's a game that will likely sneak up on you. Don, t be surprised if the 
 story and game play keep you up later than you expected . It is suitably creepy and some parts 
 of the game me a bit of a scare (and I don't scare all that easily) . Undying is a game to die for. 
  
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Thrasher91604
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 1, 2008 2:51 pm PT
Review:  If you want an FPS action horror mystery with tons of atmosphere and a great story, and quite a 
 bit of gore, then this one is for you.
  
  There's something to be said for the first person perspective that makes this action horror act 
 scarier. Compared to Silent Hill 2, which was great and creepy, this beats it simply because it 
 is first person, making it much more spooky because it makes you feel like you're almost there. 
 Yes, immersion, while usually overly touted / emphasized, is absolutely key to the success of The 
 Undying.
  
  There is a lot of attention paid to details over a wide variety of environments that creates an 
 amazingly well-crafted, believably consistent experience. The ambient sounds throughout, the music, 
 the creepy scrying events, the well placed books/notes containing journal snippets that vaguely 
 reveal the story, plus lots of little extra spooky visual-sound effects make for quite a thrill.
 
  
  The game has some very dark parts that require you to use magical scrying to see, adding tension, 
 of course, when nasties jump out to attack you, and you're scrying spell runs out. Nothing more 
 fun than a scare and panic! :)
  
  The level and monster design and variety is superb. In particular, the absolutely huge haunted 
 manor was nearly perfect in its atmosphere and bewildering/disorientating layout.
  
  The story of the cursed Covenant family was sometimes sad, sometimes repellent, frequently freaky, 
 and most often mysterious. The well-spun unravelling of the mystery of course ties the whole game 
 together.
  
  The action elements were well done - there are some fun and unique weapons and spells. The controls 
 were responsive and the attendant sound effects were great. There is a minor RPG element present; 
 you can choose which spells to boost in power with a limited number of amplifier items found throughout 
 the game.
  
  This game was a bit buggy on Windows XP. There were many crashes to the desktop, but none weren't 
 solvable with a game restart/reload. Frequent saves/quicksaves are therefore highly recommended!
 
  
  I played on normal difficulty which was just right for me. There was never a shortage of ammo and 
 health resources, but death could come quickly, and suddenly, so the tension level was high nonetheless. 
 Nothing was too frustrating except one secret was buggy and impossible to get (the first amplifier 
 in the last act) .
  
  Although this game's graphics is a bit long in the tooth, it's still a fantastic romp through a 
 very twisted and engaging world. A must play! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RomanianVampire
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 20, 2008 3:56 am PT
Review:  Clive Barker's: Undying is a FPS game it's simple and intense the game is also a great horror masterpiece 
 it's not like in other horrors a lot of blood and your single task is to go and slaughter, this 
 game is really spooky especially the first time you play it.
  Both the environment and the sounds are well selected and both of them have the purpose to scare 
 you right from the begining. 
  The action is at an old Mannor in Ireland around 1940 and you get to explore the house itself and 
 the outsides like the Ruined monastery, the family mausoleum, a secret Cove, or the island with 
 the Standing Stones, but you also get visit 
  other places more special for example you can travel in the past to the monastery's good old days 
 to take something from there also you can go to Onerius a lost city in a different world or in 
 The Eternal Autum.
  The game-play is dimple you can either choose to attack your enemies with your fire arms (revolve, 
 shotgun) , you can also attack them with your magic.
  In conclusion I can say that Clive Barker's: Undying is a great horror FPS that is worth playing 
 it may be old but you cannot say you are a real gamer before you play Undying. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Talonfire
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 16, 2008 10:08 am PT
Review:  I have to be honest, I haven't read any of Clive Barker's writings, so the whole "Clive Barker" 
 thing in the title just didn't catch my attention. After playing Undying, though; I can see why 
 he's a fairly popular horror author; Undying is a great game with a solid story.
  
  In Undying you assume the role of Patrick Galloway, an Irish World War I veteran. He is summoned 
 to the Covenant estate by his old friend Jeremiah, who saved his life in the war. When Jeremiah 
 explains how a curse has been placed on his family, Patrick must explore the Covenant Estate, and 
 the island it lies on to discover how to break the curse while avoiding Jeremiah's now corrupt 
 undead siblings. I didn't find the story scary, or even disturbing, but it was a solid piece of 
 work and definitely one of the games finer points.
  
  As for gameplay, Undying is pretty standard. It uses the first generation Unreal engine, so there's 
 no weapon limit. Weapons aren't your only tool in your fight against the supernatural forces that 
 plague the Covenant estate, though; you can also use a variety of magic spells that you find over 
 the course of your adventure. The magic system is fairly well implemented, your magic attacks aren't 
 just reskinned weapons. Some magic is intended to be used offensively, while some may simply alter 
 your perception and/or help you solve a puzzle. This was a nice touch as it separated Undying from 
 the majority of shooters that consist entirely of blowing things up, never requiring you to use 
 your head for anything.
  
  Visually Undying is a fairly nice looking game for its time since it used the Unreal engine. The 
 Covenant mansion and surrounding island are all detailed, as are the characters presented on screen 
 in the games cinematics. The game is also great audio-wise, the voice acting is surprisingly superb, 
 and the sound effects are great and help the games horror atmosphere.
  
  Clive Barker's Undying is a great game to play if you're looking for an entertaining shooter that 
 isn't all just "shoot first, ask questions later". It's outdated by todays standards sure, but 
 age doesn't matter for classics like this. A shame this game didn't get the attention it deserved. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ChristianKiss
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 14, 2008 7:02 am PT
Review:  Developed by Dreamworks Games and published by EA Games, Clive Barker's Undying (2001) is an outstanding 
 Fantasy First-Person Shooter. It uses the old Unreal Engine, but it looks better than Unreal and 
 Wheel of Time (which uses the same technology) , and is also more atmospheric and innovative than 
 those games. Dreamworks really known how to use that beautiful engine, since Undying really creates 
 a melancholic feel while you're playing it, especially when you're walking in a dark place, alone 
 and hearing voices and noises from all the directions.
  
  To venture in this awesome dark fantasy adventure, you play as Patrick Galloway, an occultist that 
 owns his life to a friend who is now with health problems. Jeremiah Covenant, the name of Galloway's 
 buddy, wrote an urgent letter requesting his visit, to investigate a curse that is possibly the 
 cause to his bad health, and for the deaths in all his family. That curse is tied to the estate 
 where the Covenant family once lived, and Galloway is there to search for clues and solve all the 
 supernatural terror that haunts Jeremiah. The story in Undying is deep, and is build in a unique 
 and remarkable way, while Galloway make conversations with some interesting characters and read 
 the books found in the estate.
  
  However, even with all those aspects, this game doesn't fit in the Adventure genre and therefore 
 cannot be compared to Resident Evil or Silent Hill. It's also a little sparse in enemies to fill 
 up such a relativity lengthy campaign, which takes a good and satisfying 10-15 hours of playing 
 time to finish. So, for a First-Person Shooter, it's also a bit sporadic. But all those features 
 intentionally works together to build an immersive creepy atmosphere, although I didn't find it 
 scary. You start the game in the estate, and you'll pass a lot of time in the manor's rooms, corridors 
 and yards. But before you think this is Edward Carnby from the Alone in the Dark's mansion, let 
 me say that at least a half of the game occurs in amazing places, which are all equally imaginative.
 
  
  Everything works in concert to create the sinister environment: the great graphics engine, which 
 can render impressive shadows and lightning effects; the sounds are all convincing, as you can 
 efficiently hear winds, strange noises, monsters from the dark etc; and, most important, the design 
 of the maps. Even the mansion, although it gets a little repetitive, looks good. I'll not spoiler 
 by saying all the other places you'll visit, but I'm sure you'll find most of them, if not all, 
 very exciting.
  
  The gameplay is fast-paced and old-school, and maybe that's the reason Undying didn't creeped me 
 out. Your character moves pretty fast, and that definitely doesn't help to build suspense or any 
 scary moment, but perhaps that's only me. The monsters aren't much variety, and also the demons 
 don't look horrifying, since most of them are so short that don't even seem to be dangerous (and 
 they are) .
  
  To battle the enemies, you have both weapons and spells. Galloway has a handy six-shoot pistol, 
 which can use normal or silver bullets; this last is a very strong projectile against supernatural 
 beings. Eventually, he will find the powerful double-barreled shotgun, and the not-so-good Molotov 
 cocktails, which you'll probably forget to use since it isn't effective. There're also some magical 
 weapons, like the Tibetan War Cannon, used to freeze and greatly damage your opponents. You'll 
 occasionally find a melee weapon that is the most destructible one in your arsenal, and really 
 fun to use.
  
  The spells are very similar to the RPGs stereotypes. The player starts with a standard ethereal 
 bolt and the useful Scrye, which is used to see supernatural beings and to learn things from the 
 past. When its use is extremely necessary or at least a little relevant, you'll hear a frightening 
 voice telling you "to see". But the real similarities from most RPGs are spells like Haste, Lightning 
 Bolt and Shield, which are all found in ancient scrolls. All spells are quite helpful, although 
 the combination Haste-and-Shield works fine in all situations. You can upgrade your magical powers 
 with the Amplifier stones, and this gives a good sense of freedom because you can actually select 
 what spells you want to strengthen.
  
  Casting spells costs mana, but don't worry, because there aren't mana potions in Undying, since 
 Galloway regenerates its energy pretty fast. You can also increase its mana capacity and regeneration 
 by searching for and acquiring special hiding artifacts. This also increases Undying's value of 
 gameplay, because you have several secret places to search for, and some of them are intriguingly 
 hard to spot.
  
  Apart from weapons and spells, there is a good list of miscellaneous items, which range from health 
 packs to dynamites. All of the usable stuff is accessed via an intuitive circular menu, except 
 to the general items, which are all listed in a standard window. This is a viable interface feature, 
 but it gets some time to get used to. But the input configuration options let you to customize 
 in your own way, using the classic hotkey style from most First-Person Shooters, although I think 
 it will be much harder to handle both your weapons and spells.
  
  The default difficult setting ('Normal') does a good job when offering challenging moments, although 
 the game becomes easier when you have almost all the weapons and spells. There are some boss battles, 
 and most of them you have to figure out a particular way to kill the enemy. They aren't very enigmatic, 
 but you'll have to think a while and will probably make you quick load the progress sometimes.
 
  
  The maps in Undying are all pretty small, and you can already guess what this means considering 
 the length of this game: frequent loading bars. You'll travel from area to area very often, and 
 this will make the 'Loading' text appear more than you would like to see. But that isn't that annoying 
 since Undying is a 7 years old game, and the tour between the levels will be probably fast, depending 
 on your hardware.
  
  Your most time-consuming tasks in this game is to find the right door to enter, or the key to open 
 a locked door (which you can easily forget where it is) , or figuring out how to escape a place 
 or how to operate a lever. Thankfully you have some sort of a diary, where you can access your 
 current objectives, information from dialogues, or even some stuff about your weapons and spells.
 
  
  Considering everything that Undying does have, it's not hard to forgive the developers by not introducing 
 a multiplayer mode. Maybe those well-known competitive modes would be enough, since I can't find 
 a way to fit a cooperative mode in such a complex story, which involves only one playable character. 
 If you're after a quality and amazing First-Person Shooter, get Clive Barker's Undying for a satisfying 
 and memorable experience. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ryaz_weaponx
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 21, 2008 11:07 pm PT
Review:  The Plot  The story begins with a WW1 veteran Patrick Galloway, who receives an urgent letter 
 from his friend Jeremiah Covenant. Covenant, well aware of Galloway's reputation for dealing with 
 occult matters, is in failing health and raves about a curse that has destroyed his entire family. 
 Galloway travels to the Covenant estate on the coast of Ireland to visit his friend, who relates 
 an outlandish tale of supernatural terrors and thus our story begins.
  
  Graphics & Sound  Undying's graphics and character animations are very well done, along with the 
 amazing sound effects. The game leaves a chilling and believable environment to dwell within with 
 its combination of both good graphics and voice overs. Although it would have been a help with 
 an option for sub-titles as at times it's difficult to hear what Patrick or any of the other characters 
 are saying.
  
  Gameplay  Undying is pretty big for an FPS giving you anywhere from 15  25 hours of gameplay, 
 and it plays like any other FPS but what makes it different is the two handed combat system. With 
 one hand you can use spells while the other uses weapons. You get to choose from eight different 
 spells and eight different weapons which brings diversity to the game. The environments are drop 
 dead gorgeous and chills run down your spine on every occasion. The plot fits so beautifully with 
 the gameplay that every moment leaves you guessing now what. The one thing that is bothering is 
 that to use an object one has to just rush straight through it, no extra use key to help you. The 
 game throws at you an array of enemies each being challenging than the other. All in all the experience 
 is immersive, and is a must play.
  
  The Good  Excellent environments, spooky, good set of characters and interesting storyline, gameplay.
 
  
  The Bad  No subtitles give a hard time as at times its difficult to hear the speakers, no use 
 key, loose ends in the plot.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: jenolie
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 17, 2008 10:02 pm PT
Review:  I have fond memories of this game. It was creepy, it was spooky, and it made me play to the bitter 
 end.
  
  Undying oozes with atmosphere. It's like being dropped into the middle of a horror movie, except 
 you're no passive observer here. Through traditional weapons and magic you can take out all the 
 creepy crawlies that the game throws at you. What set this game apart for me was the setting. An 
 old Engligh estate that is haunted up the ying yang by the warped and cursed owners of this sprawling 
 home. I loved discovering all the areas of the mansion. Light and shadow contribute hugely to the 
 overall feel of the game. The graphics are very good and the character models really do come to 
 life, or to put it more accurately, they come back from the dead.
  
  If you're into games that give you the heebie jeebies, put Undying on your list. It maybe old school 
 now, but it's still worth playing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mrdrx
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 29, 2007 9:19 pm PT
Review:  A horror game based on one of Clive Baker's story. Just another old horror game would you think 
 around this time, well think again. 
  
  Undying is a frightening nerve wrecking game with alot of dark sinister ideas behind it. If you 
 compare Undying with Jericho, believe me you'll be putting Jericho aside, if you'r out just for 
 the horror and not for the graphics. You will notice that there's less shooting action in Undying 
 then in Jericho, but thats not what a horror game is all about, or..?. Undying features more scary 
 moments. Moments that will make you turn around every 3 seconds just to check if nothing is behind 
 you, or following you, or just standing there looking at you that would make you fill you'r pants 
 while in jericho its just plain running around shooting some dead monster-zombies comming after 
 you.
  
  Gameplay is great, nothing wrong about that. Runspeed is fast enough, but not fast enough away 
 from you'r enemies, and boss battles can be very very hard to beat because they keep hitting you 
 with everything they got and you just got some spare time to make some moves as fast as possible 
 just to hit and evoid again. Decent weapons included also, some strange one's a dragon like weapon 
 that spits (ice?) . A big stake shooting gun and a big chopping thingy that just tears you'r enemies 
 into two pieces literally. Overall, it runs smoothly.
  
  The world in Undying is just outstanding from a huge house to a huge castle to farms and more. 
 Things comming at you (mostly wolfs) will be easy to kill because of the far range shooting weapens 
 you got. But still can be some nerve wrecking moments while there running as fast as possible just 
 to get you and sometimes even make left right movements to evoid you'r (bullets?) anyways, basic 
 world looks great and there are many more to explore like dark alley's, basement, a misty underground 
 path full of evil looking sound making monsters that just comming out of the ground sneeking up 
 on you trying to get you offnoticed because you can hardly even see them, now that can be scary 
 the first couple of times.
  
  Graphics are ofcourse far to outdated, but for such and old game you barrely even pay attention 
 to it because of the story thats getting you all soaked up. For a game anno 2001 it looks very 
 decent. World texture looks great, model details are very low and blubish even tough you'r playing 
 at high settings.
  
  The game overall is very fun to play, graphics look great for such an old game, gameplay is very 
 smoothly also, and especially the horror air running around all the time thinking someone is behind 
 you, looking if there are more things comming after you above or under the ground, you name it 
 where. So if you feel like getting horrer'ed, Undying would be a good choice. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stephenc360
Rating: 6.5
Date: Dec 10, 2007 6:17 am PT
Review:  Always difficult reviewing a 6 year old game especially considering the far superior titles that 
 are available , so here goes. Undying is set in the 1930s and you play as Patrick Galloway summoned 
 to the covenant family estate to solve the family curse.
  
  The start is promising the mansion looks foreboding as you are introduced to its owner. But here 
 lies the first problem now i have many irish relatives and none of them sound like Galloway. His 
 accent is laughable at best and the acting and dialogue is extremely wooden. Some of the audio 
 is qiute chilling whispers and screams etc although it feels a bit corny.
  
  Second problem is the sloppy level design , sure their is variety in the scenery. But some levels 
 fall flat the catacombs is too dark and bland rocks and corridors are all the same and without 
 a proper map or guidance its easy to get lost. I presume darkness is to increase tension but it 
 just makes it difficult to know what route to take. Backtracking can happen a lot and even though 
 the game tries to convey a feeling of open ended gameplay, its still a predictably linear adventure.
 
  
  Also my version is full of bugs creatures not attacking me or when i kill the Lizbeth boss a scroll 
 spell doesn't appear and i am unable to escape from her lair. This is all lazy programming and 
 it hampers the enjoyment a lot. Graphics are okay but obviously dated by todays standards, some 
 colors are bland and the distant scenery looks like a painting. Characters are drawn okay as are 
 the creatures , although the skeletons are extremely annoying.
  
  This also follows the golden rule of most FPShooters in that your initial weapon the pistol is 
 rendered useless once you gain more powerful guns. Some weapons are interesting such as the Tibetan 
 War cannon although it's not that powerful. Also the spells you aqcuire don't really have the impact 
 i had hoped for. The bland colors dull enemies and characters contribute to make the whole experience 
 a bit boring.
  
  If you are a Clive Barker enthusiast and are looking for a horror game with some cheap thrills 
 that doesn't require a hightech PC , then it may be worth having a look. On the other hand a hardcore 
 PC gamer on Crysis etc won't even look at this game. And considering that it's hard to recommend 
 it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: moriel73
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 11, 2007 11:15 am PT
Review:  This game has it all: Beautiful photo-realistic graphics, a really interesting story and script 
 better than some hollywood films, imaginative level design, and an immersive atmosphere that creates 
 a sense of horror and dread that is really rare in video games. I dare you to play this alone in 
 your house with the lights off! The sound effects contribute to the atmospher probably even more 
 than the superb graphics and level design. I give the gameplay high marks for the moderate, but 
 not impossible to solve mysteries/puzzles that you encounter, and the unique array of spells and 
 weapons, including an evil scythe that lops off your enemies' heads! Lots of creativity and imagination 
 in this game makes it great, but also scares off lots of folks that want a simple game. The only 
 flaw in this game is perhaps the end-boss Which is definitely unique-looking, but still just a 
 big ugly creature so typical of shooter game end-bosses. I thought they could have created a more 
 interesting scenario for the climax of this epic horror story, which is so well crafted up until 
 the end. I give it a 5 out of 5 because you will rarely experience such an intense atmosphere and 
 great story combined with great sounds and visuals in a video game. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Geminidevine
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 31, 2007 9:45 am PT
Review:  I played this game back in late 2004 for the PC i was pretty late getting to play this game lol. 
 But i really enjoy it at the time. I never got a chance to finish it becuase the end boss was difficult 
 i just gave up. I wish there was a sequel. This game was a visual masterpiece from the mastermind 
 Clive Barker himself. Games have gotten so advanced since then but i tell you when i played this 
 game it gave me the creep with it errie soundtrack and sound effects. The graphics are still top 
 notch to this very day if you have a powerful PC to run it on. Plus (Undying) doesn't require much 
 anyway like the games of today. Only if i had a copy of this game i would add it to my collection. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ivory_soul
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 27, 2007 1:59 am PT
Review:  The Good: Lots of gore! Great story, cool weapons and spells, creepy atmosphere
  
  The Bad: Extremely slow pace, flat, boring, and lifeless visuals, unforgiving difficulty
  
 
  I came into Undying with high expectations from what I've heard of the game and they were easily 
 brought down fast. While the game creates a scary atmosphere and the story is original... it takes 
 FOREVER for it to pick up and the shooting is the same thing over and over. You have plenty of 
 neat weapons and magical powers but most of them are rendered useless. The story goes along the 
 lines of a man named Patrick who has to help and old friend out who released a curse when he was 
 a child. You have to investigate this curse and find out what was really released. While this is 
 good and all the game takes forever to tell the story and makes you just want to stop playing for 
 good. The graphics are bad for today's standards. Using the Unreal Engine 1.0 the game tries to 
 create a creepy and scary atmosphere, which it pulls off, but in the end brought down due to its 
 poor graphics. While there are older games that have good graphics even for today; Undying's are 
 just lifeless, flat, and boring. The game is ultra gory with skeletons ripping your heart out and 
 eating it, Howlers ripping your head off and eating it... it's a bloody sight indeed. Also, with 
 the extreme difficulty it makes you want to hate this game even more. Ammo and health are scarce 
 even on the easy setting. This was of course when EA had balls and released games such as Thrill 
 Kill, American McGee's Alice, and this game. If you can stomach the poor graphics and slow pace 
 then Undying is for you. If you played this game back in 2001 then it would have been wonderful. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dark_being
Rating: 7
Date: Oct 18, 2007 8:37 am PT
Review:  Im a big fan of horror movies, especially the cheesy ones, with a silly plot and lousy special 
 effects, but when it comes to games, I find it harder to satisfy my need for gore and horror, and 
 only a few rare gems actually surpass my expectations. Clive Barkers Undying (or Undying in 
 short) could have been one of these rare gems, if not for a few major flaws.
  
  Lets start at the beginning. Undying is a first person shooter, no doubt about it, with some 
 interesting components that make the game stand out in the sea of shooters. It has a great story 
 (well get to that later) , memorable villains, and even magic. The magic works as a secondary weapon, 
 and can be used simultaneously with the main weapon, be it a shotgun, a revolver or a crossbow. 
 But not all magic is offensive. Some can be used as a defense (a magical shield or dispelling the 
 enemys magic attacks) or even to enhance your characters abilities, like speed.
  Along the game youll be able to upgrade your casting ability by collecting magical stones. Each 
 stone can be used once (and only once) to enhance one spell (giving it more power, or reducing 
 the mana cost) .
  
  Now, lets talk story. Set in Ireland in the 1920s, Undying puts you in the role of Patrick Galloway, 
 a paranormal investigator, and an ex-solider, who comes has been called upon by an old friend to 
 solve a family curse. Jeremiah (said old friend) is certain that his 4 dead siblings have resurrected, 
 and are now haunting the family estate, determined on killing him. Shortly after arriving at the 
 estate, and talking to the help, Patrick realize that Jeremiahs suspicions are true, and its 
 up to him to save his friend and break the family curse.
  Patrick will have to destroy each sibling (and its minions) , in order to once again bring peace 
 to the cursed ground surrounding the estate. Up until now the game sounds great, but here enters 
 one of the biggest flaws in the game: the action is freaking boring! Every minion looks exactly 
 the same as the dozens you killed before (although every sibling do have different minions) , and 
 most of them will die after a few rounds in the chest, or a couple of well placed shotgun blasts. 
 All the combat really does is slow you down (hence, prolonging the game) and distract you from 
 the unfolding plot.
  There are enough health packs and ammo lying around, so you wont need to conserve your ammo or 
 worry about dying.
  
  The graphics are convincing for a 2001 release, and theres even a cute and unique cut-scene every 
 time you die and each type of enemy generate a different cut-scene. The character models look good, 
 even by todays standards, and they move about smoothly and very life like. The backgrounds are 
 a bit sloppy and dull, so you wont have anything interesting to look at while you explore a dark 
 set of catacombs or a ruined monetary.
  
  The voice over is the most convincing part of the game. Each character, be it a villain or a helpful 
 servant, has its own distinctive voice and every part is played with a realistic feel to it, as 
 if the voice-actors where really the characters themselves. The score for the game is not particularly 
 memorable, and most of the time its hard to even notice that there is music in the background.
 
  
  As I mentioned before, magic is a big part of the gameplay, but apart from his spell-casting ability, 
 Patrick has one other magical attribute. Patrick carries around the Gel'ziabar stone- a magical 
 stone that not only generate a force-field between him and his enemies, but can even react the 
 other magical fields. Gameplay-wise it means that if you carry the stone as a main weapon, it will 
 indicate areas where theres something hidden that can only be seen or heard with the scrye spell.
 
  
  Clive barkers Undying could have been a better horror game, if it would have just stuck to telling 
 a great story, and kept the repetitive action to a minimum. All in all, it is a good game, if you 
 dont mind the derivative gameplay issues or the crappy AI and combat. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: majesticcryx
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 28, 2007 8:28 am PT
Review:  Clive Barker seems to have long since abandoned the horror genre in his fiction, but by his own 
 account he readily embraced the action-horror concept of Undying when it was presented to him by 
 the folks at DreamWorks. Barker tweaked the story and played a large role in the creation of the 
 games hero, Patrick Galloway. The result is Clive Barkers Undying, a thoughtful single-player 
 shooter that delivers some great action, a lot of genuine chills, and some of the horrific magic 
 that fueled Barkers early work.
  
  Set in 1923, you play Galloway, an intrepid Irish adventurer and explorer of the paranormal. Galloway 
 has been summoned to the crumbling estate of his friend Jeremiah Covenant because Jeremiahs dead 
 siblings are haunting the halls of the gothic mansion.
  
  But this isnt a normal haunting -- its the final act of a drama that began when Jeremiah and 
 his siblings were children. The Covenant kids took one of their fathers forbidden books of the 
 arcane and muddled with forces that should have been left well alone. Now, many years later, the 
 childrens spirits are trying to unleash the horrific Undying King. Needless to say, if the Undying 
 King shows up there will be much suffering and gnashing of teeth.
  
  The game begins inside the Covenant mansion and then spreads out across an ancient monastery, a 
 creepy series of tombs and crypts, and a twisted parallel dimension. Your focus within these realms 
 is dispatching Jeremiahs ghastly brothers and sisters, as well as their legions of ghoulish minions.
 
  
  The story is conveyed via journal entries, discovered books, and other objects, but none of the 
 dense exposition does much to rescue the meandering plot. Youll read diary entries that fill in 
 background information for the primary characters in the game, but after a while youll find yourself 
 scanning any discovered documents for relevant clues while ignoring everything else.
  
  Thankfully, Undying more than makes up for its lackluster plot with some sensational atmosphere 
 that will have the hair on the back of your neck ripping itself free and running for cover.
  
  Its been a long time since a game flat-out scared me the way Undying did, and in many respects 
 it even outshines the excellent System Shock 2 in terms of generating sheer terror. From the very 
 beginning, where the ghost of Jeremiahs brother Aaron taunts you, its intensely creepy. Youll 
 hear the cries of children (which is always creepy) , giggling ghosts, silverware and plates that 
 have minds of their own, and sounds that have no place in the normal world.
  
  In addition to the aforementioned crying children and laughing ghosts, youll also be forced to 
 endure the sounds of a bludgeoning, the ominous creaking and slamming of doors, and other audio 
 clues that indicate actions so ghastly you need the lights on just to contemplate. And even the 
 ambient sounds, like the crunching of bones underfoot and the sinister hiss of the wind, brilliantly 
 serve to heighten the fear factor.
  
  Working in perfect tandem with the games excellent sound effects are some stellar graphics. The 
 Unreal Tournament engine provides ample horsepower to render highly detailed environments and character/monster 
 models. The games most impressive graphical feat, however, is the weather effects. The rain in 
 one torrential downpour sequence is the best Ive ever seen.
  
  Undying neatly balances weapons and magic into seamless shooter gameplay with the ability to perform 
 a two-handed attack -- your left hand controls your standard weapons while your right hand casts 
 spells. Because of this you can quickly adjust your attack methods on the fly, which is handy when 
 youre faced with a slew of enemies immune to one form of attack or the other.
  
  The standard pistol and shotgun make their appearances, but the real joy in the arsenal are the 
 Tibetan War Cannon, which blasts ice at enemies, and spells like Skull Storm, which launches a 
 laughing skull that explodes upon impact. Unique gameplay moments are conjured with creative use 
 of the Scrye spell, which lets you see and hear past events that occurred in the room youre moving 
 through. Im not going to reveal the specifics and ruin the fun, but the designers showed great 
 imagination when they made the Scyre such an integral part of the game.
  
  The beasties populating the game are wildly creative and chilling. From the werewolf-like Howlers 
 to the truly bizarre Scarrows, all of the monsters seem to have been culled directly from the darker 
 recesses of Clive Barkers warped imagination. The monster AI is also first-rate, with enemies 
 attacking in packs and skittering away so they can regroup for another attack.
  
  On the downside, Undying has some of the longest loading times Ive seen, even on a high-end system. 
 This is a very sore spot in a game that relies so heavily on atmosphere.
  
  In the course of promotional interviews, Clive Barker has expressed the hope that Undying will 
 be but the first installment in a new franchise; I really hope that ends up being the case. Creating 
 a game that actually scares you is no small feat, and its a true testament to Undyings creators 
 that they were able to craft a great action game that will also scare the tar out of you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Darkfibre
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jul 19, 2007 2:06 am PT
Review:  Pretty good game this one. What came across more than anything else was that the game had a great 
 sense of atmosphere. I would describe it as creepy. It even made me jump a fair few times. The 
 story itself is typical Clive Barker. You need to suspend an element of disbelief, but doing so 
 opens up a wealth of fun. I reckon I got about 25 hours play time out of the game. The hardest 
 part being the final boss, but it was worth it in the end. As a budget title today (June 2007) , 
 it represents a real bargain. Yes it may look a little dated now, but the game progresses at a 
 fair pace. Not one to overlook. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FEPowered390
Rating: 7.8
Date: Jul 6, 2007 5:04 pm PT
Review:  Undying completely rubbed me the wrong way during the first 10 minutes. But, I'll tell you one 
 thing, this game just grew on me. I, for one thing, will remember this game for years to come. 
 The Environments are very odd and remarkable to say the least. It feels like a fantasy, but with 
 a hint of reality.
  
  The gameplay mechanics in Undying are awesome. It's just like playing Quake 3, etc. The spells 
 you use are very satisfactory, and the weapons seem to never loose thier edge.. even the revolver 
 (your first weapon) .
  
  I wouldn't call this game scarey at all. It's just a nice little packaged adventure game.
  
 
  The story is somewhat involving, but just right to tell you the truth. Your charactor (Jeramiah) 
 leaves journal entrys so you can always revise what is taking place at the current moment.
  
  Revisement is the biggest issue with this game. I played this on a G5 2GHz with a 6800 Ultra, 
 and it was smooth as butter most of the time. But some of t he large enivornments the developers 
 used could have been more efficient.. because I was getting some bad framerate drops.
  
  My biggest issue is I wasn't able to complete this game. I was to succeed through a door, but the 
 damn door would only creek halfway. So, the door was indeed stuck... and it was my only way through. 
 So yes, a bug stopped me from completing this game. That is too bad. Otherwise, this could have 
 been a mid 80's game.
  
  EA games also need to learn to enable widescreen gaming.
  
  Undying is a remarkable game with all the essential elements. Too bad it couldn't have been revised 
 more. Certain issues like non-widescreen support, bugs, and FPS efficiency could have been improved.
 
  
  Typically, if I am unable to complete a game due to a bug, I really nail it hard. But this game 
 actually has some spirit in it.. so I couldn't really nail it as hard as I wanted too. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: crowleyjohn
Rating: 9.4
Date: May 30, 2007 6:05 pm PT
Review:  Graphics: For the time these graphics are superb. Despite having a few glitches they really add 
 to the atmosphere of the game. The lighting is excellent the shadows equally realistic, and though 
 the surfaces lose some of their luster under close scrutiny, the visuals as a whole do more than 
 enough to immerse you in the eerie story and do justice to the survival horror experience. Some 
 of the environments are so well done for their time you'll often find yourself looking around just 
 to take in the visuals. Paintings in the game are often beautiful and detailed while at the same 
 time being creepy enough to make you almost scared to explore the mansion section of this game. 
 The visuals in this game beg to be explored so each time you reach a new section of the game it 
 is an exciting thing as you know you're probably in a for a visual treat. Gameplay: Has all the 
 elements you'd want in a great action/adventure game. Tight first person shooter based combat a 
 good variety of weapons and spells if not a bit of a small list. Believable A. I and some very creepy 
 monsters at every turn. The game plays out in a fairly linear fashion while at the same time allowing 
 for exploration as some of the environments are rather large and bear examination for hidden items 
 and the like. Caverns and dungeons that at first seem simple often will snake-hand into many hidden 
 areas, adding to the feel that you're getting yourself deeper and deeper into something bad. Enemies 
 will pop out at key moments making exploration exciting and spine tingling. Though the game is 
 heavy on the action there are some interesting light puzzle solving moments to keep the game from 
 being too repetitive. Also the enemy A. I is smart enough to keep you on your toes at each battle. 
 After killing the same monster countless times I found myself no less bored at enemy encounters. 
 Enemies will approach you from behind, come down from the ceilings, up from the ground around corners. 
 There is no dull moment even when encountering the same monster over and over. Also certain enemies 
 can be best dispatched by using certain weapons and or spells. I found this to be an interesting 
 challenge if not a bit frustrating at times. Man those skeletons can be irritating after you've 
 killed them 10 times in a row. Story: Clive Barker is very adept at the macabre and the psychologically 
 disturbing. His expertise shines in the story of this game. Undying is heavy on the occult and 
 that is a good thing. The story plays out through listening to NPC dialogue well done cut scenes 
 and finding parchments, letters and notes throughout the game. These aspects carry the story along 
 beautifully . The reasons behind what is happening is as scary as playing the game itself. The 
 story is tight and creepy. The characters are memorable. From start to finish you feel as if you're 
 part of the story playing Patrick Galloway. There are no obligatory moments in Undying. Everything 
 that unfolds is worth listening to. Every document you find, at least in my opinion, is worth reading. 
 Sound: The game really shines here. From the shrieks of the demented beasts you'll encounter in 
 the game, to the voice acting, to the creepy ambient sounds of wind or the tormented wails of some 
 unknown horror lurking in the shadows, every sound only adds to the ambiance. Also though the music 
 in this game is sparse, it queues up at perfect moments filling out the atmosphere of the game 
 and when it does, it does it well. I wish there was more of this quality music in any game in fact. 
 Not only is the music great in this game, but it is NEVER overbearing, it leaves you wanting more. 
 Overall: This is how games should be. Aside from a few minor and forgivable glitches I had an incredibly 
 fun time playing this game. The developers really put some thought into the creation of this game 
 from all aspects, I salute them and damn I wish they would make part 2! Also, for this game's current 
 price it is one hell of a bargain. Developers of Undying, wherever you are, I wish there were more 
 of you out there! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: The_scarlet_gun
Rating: 9.1
Date: May 18, 2007 8:36 pm PT
Review:  I got this game about a week ago, because I had started to read some of Clive's books, and had 
 wanted to see if his games lived up to the feel of his books. I have to say, I was not disappointed 
 in the least. The sound is wonderful, and it really puts in that creepy vibe that horror fans look 
 for in games. The graphics were amazing for their time, and even now, in the days of the next gen, 
 they still are good enough to give a good scare. The story is great too, which fits in well with 
 the action. I have to say, this game has made me nearly jerk the mouse nearly out of my computer 
 more than a few times. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: VitaExodus
Rating: 7.8
Date: May 15, 2007 9:08 am PT
Review:  I originally got this game for $20, a bundle called vault of darkness, which included American 
 McGee's Alice. As much as I enjoyed Alice, Unfortunately I just can't say the same about Undying. 
 It starts out with an interesting cinematic that I must admit is fairly gripping, and the cinematics 
 continue on throughout the game along the same level. You're a man investigating the paranormal, 
 and you just stepped right into a pile of it. The graphics are crisp, very few glitches, the weaponry 
 look s a tad jaggedy but otherwise no gripes on that part. The music and sound is very well done, 
 with plenty of eerieness, creepieness, and all around spooky ambience. In those respects, the game 
 is great. And now, for the gripes. The gameplay, although I was hoping for better, was dissapointing 
 in most respects. It wasn't made very clear when and where you need to go sometimes. The rooms 
 and other locations can get confusing sometimes. Maybe it's just me, but I just didn't enjoy going 
 through this one. On that note, is it just me, or does the bottom half of the final boss look like 
 a giant vagina 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sharier
Rating: 7.7
Date: May 7, 2007 5:48 am PT
Review:  Forgive my ignorance. Who's Clive Barker? Should I be ashamed that I don't know him. Should I be 
 playing a game that belongs to Clive Barker even when I purchase the game?
  Well after reading reviews about Undying, I decided to try this out -- ignoring Barker. I now know 
 who he is -- a master of horror story telling and a very creative person. And he left his mark all 
 over this horror action game.
  Now horror does not have to be like Doom 3 where blood and strange deformity or mutation appearing 
 out of darkness does the trick. In undying distorted mutated characters are not necessarily the 
 element of horror. This is a proper horror game, where undead entities are your opponent and you 
 are out to solve a mystery. Its not science fiction horror fantasy , but a horror action fantasy. 
 The game kickstarts with a brilliant Victorian era setting which rules the environment from the 
 beginning. Brilliant graphics. With Victorian era fire arms you start your mission in fighting 
 the undead. Undying uses darkness a lot and in fact darkness can put you off as some scenes can 
 go completely black. Sometimes you can roam around in wrong direction again and again because of 
 the darkness and get killed by the ghosts. In other words, the game demands your attention and 
 time. If you are playing the game for short time-frames and long intervals, its likely that you 
 will not finish the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: krazyorange
Rating: 9.3
Date: Apr 26, 2007 1:10 pm PT
Review:  I'll admit it - I jumped on the FEAR bandwagon the summer after it arrived, although I did beat 
 it in one continuous sitting. While I've never been into the survival-horror genre of games, I 
 found FEAR to be outstanding with every single segment well-placed and though out and executed 
 to perfection.
  
  Enter Clive Barker's Undying, while outdated to an extent it's so freaky and jumpy it puts FEAR 
 to shame. Scary games are not the same as survival-horror, in that scary games don't leave you 
 hanging on the brink without ammunition and supplies. While higher difficulty levels can provide 
 this effect, scary games give you the tools and the passage to proceed - they rely on jumps and 
 surprises to lull players into false securities before throwing the kitchen sink at them. Undying 
 does this to perfection, and for the first two hours I played with hard nips and goosies up and 
 down my arms. After you find the War Cannon, however, the game begins to get less scary as all 
 weapons and spells which follow allow you to dispatch foes with greater ease.
  
  The first two to four hours are by far the best, before you get used to the enemies and the mechanics. 
 After that players learn when a creature pops out there will always be one right behind you for 
 the cleanup kill, but almost every time that little bastard makes me jump. The story is well-contrived 
 and involves all manner of the occult and its accompanying requisites, from goulies to skeleton 
 archers.
  
  It's the sound which makes Undying so insane to play alone in the dark (no pun intended, naturally) . 
 Every creature makes a distinct effect, be it growling or howling and bloodcurdling. Admittedly 
 the graphics are outdated running with the original Unreal engine, but it doesn't detract at all 
 from the enjoyability. Additionally, the game runs without a hitch, although there is a fair amount 
 of clipping and jaggies - all part of the dated technology.
  
  In all, Clive Barker's Undying is by far the scariest and intricate game I've played. While the 
 gameplay lacks in variety -get objective, find key, open door, find another key, open door, slay 
 baddies, achieve objective - it makes up for in style and jumps. I can't recommend this enough 
 to fans of FEAR or any other sort of horror games; you will not be disappointed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: VLADIFTODI
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 26, 2007 3:20 am PT
Review:  It's just the best first person shooter (if it can be called this way)
  it's just fun, a little horror and a lot of RPG elements and magic!!!
  YOU will enjoy this game 
 for sure !!!
  I consider it better than Silent hill or dark messiah of might and magic, even if nothing can be 
 compared to this game, it's fun unique and hard to describe in words
  It's something unique and different, i have seen no similar, I mean there are similar, but this 
 game comes along with a genre of it's own with you must definitley play!!! (no matter who you are 
 and what preferences you have :D :P) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thaghostgr
Rating: 9.2
Date: Mar 15, 2007 12:40 pm PT
Review:  for all those doom and heretic (!!!!) fans this is yur game. its fantastic with an atmosphere that'll 
 crack yur nerves and will make want to quit the game but it drags yu continuing the story discovering 
 the riddles and plethora of dark secrets. The game will take yu from wide open fields to exercise 
 yur aim at monsters to dark and cold monasteries caves or even secret portals that will lead yu 
 into the dreams of the ghosts yu are about to vanquish. enough talk just buy the game already.
 
  ONE CON ONLY the game is more than just hard to get through in some cases but believe me that 
 will not take yu down. finish it and it will leave yu something to remember about. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: net_mugger
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jan 3, 2007 1:42 pm PT
Review:  Freaky game 5 years ago! I admit I loved this game... I don't remember how many times I finished 
 it from begining to end... There were so many scary places when you were using the scrye spell! 
 For example there is a place at the begining on a picture is Liz with 2 dogs and when you use the 
 scrye she becomes a vampire and the dogs become howlers all 3 of them with blood on their lips 
 and skin. Very shocking image I tell you. And so many other...
  
  When that game was launched I remember that I was delighted by the graphics. There are some stupid 
 places when your arm is a litle fat and stuff like that but anyway it is good.
  
  You have many weapons and spells. There are 2 special weapons a green stone I don't remember how 
 I spell it so it's the green stone and there is the Scythe wich is used to kill the family members 
 and other strong monsters. You can also fly later in the game wich is very cool.
  
  I think this game worths a lot! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hitman047m4
Rating: 9.1
Date: Dec 30, 2006 8:18 am PT
Review:  In Clive Barkers Undying, a Fantasy-Horror First-Person Shooter you play as Patrick Galloway 
 a WWI veteran and a sort of detective on the occult, who embark on a quest of finding what really 
 is happening around in the Covenant estate after his friend Jeremiah Covenant, send him an urgent 
 letter asking him for his immediate assistancethat is when the horror starts; as soon as you get 
 to the manor, you could feel that something is brewing on around you, something bad is about to 
 happen and already happened finding yourself on a almost desolated mansion with only a few servants 
 around and your friend Jeremiah locked inside his room scared of the weird events and creatures 
 that wander around his mansion; armed only with a revolver and the Gel'ziabar Stone, a tool that 
 you can use for many purpose, such as seeing what happened on the place or seeing what humans eyes 
 cant see, you are ready to stand your ground anything that will appear in front of you human or 
 supernatural. With dark and scaring environments and terrific sounds fit for the horror genre, 
 featuring some unusual weapons like Molotov cocktails, the Phoenix eggs, or the Tibetan War Cannon 
 and others, also featuring a two hand combat system allowing you to fire a conventional weapon 
 with one hand and shoot the spells with the other, and lets not forget featuring also in this game 
 the involvement of Clive Barker, one of the contemporary masters of horror to help build this amazing 
 title. Never mind the downfalls that the game has such as the large amount of loading screens that 
 you will find all along the game, how sometime you would get lost inside the mansion or the lack 
 of multiplayer, this game for sure was a hit in, a gem, a masterpiece on the survival horror genre...4.5/5... The 
 HITMAN has spoken! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 5UPERMARIO
Rating: 9.6
Date: Dec 18, 2006 11:17 am PT
Review:  This game is a first person shooter with horror themes that takes place inside a haunted castle 
 and its grounds. There are many things about Undying that set it above and beyond other first person 
 shooters.
  
  + The level of detail is really high in this game. The architecture, layout of the castle and property, 
 detail of the weapons / monsters / furniture all add up for a really atmospheric game that pulls 
 you into its environment.
  + Sound effects are scary and utilized often, makes environment feel alive
  + Action is well 
 balanced, sometimes really fast paced, other times laid back and more on the adventure / exploration 
 side
  + Really interesting and deep story to follow with lots of history
  
  - Sometimes a player might get lost in the huge castle
  - Some weapons are a little too odd
 
  
  This game should be played by anyone who enjoys scary atmospheric adventure games and also most 
 definately by anyone that enjoys a great first person shooter! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bloodorigin
Rating: 9.2
Date: Dec 3, 2006 12:51 am PT
Review:  Now first of all, if you like horror movies or games then your in for a treat. Clive Barker best 
 known for his Hellraiser movies brings you a game that is not only scary but sick and twisted (in 
 the good way.) You play as Patrick Galloway who after getting a letter from a war buddy Jeremiah 
 Covenant saying he is in need of help you go to his mansion. You find out his family has an evil 
 curse only you can help lift. Through dark hallways and secret passageway's you'll meet his brothers 
 and sisters (that are dead) and monsters and they only want one thing... YOU! It's a 1st person-shooter 
 with weapons to die for. The 3d graphics are amazing. And plus a great soundtrack making this game 
 one of my fav's. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JOE714
Rating: 9.7
Date: Oct 2, 2006 4:51 pm PT
Review:  As a longtime fan of Clive Barkers novels, short stories, movies, and illustrations, I would probably 
 give Undying a try even if it wasnt a first-person shooter. The story of a seasoned spook hunter 
 scouring the misty coast of Ireland for the answers to a supernatural mystery was intriguing enough 
 in the previews that led up to Undyings release. The fact that Barkers masterful touch at characterization 
 and atmosphere was presented through such a magnificent technical presentation helped to evolve 
 shooters beyond their twitch-reflex roots into an even more engrossing medium, capable of heightening 
 the suspense and dread of poking around a haunted mansion through the protagonists own eyes..
 
  
  Even though there was a lot happening in and around the Coventry mansion, the quiet, still moments 
 were balanced well against the many sudden and shocking assaults that Patrick Galloway must survive. 
 I found myself creeping down empty passages, listening to the rain pattering on the roof and outer 
 walkways, just waiting for the telltale hiss of a phase-gating Doomflier or the approaching clop 
 of a loping Howlers claws. In keeping with Barkers ubiquitous worlds-hidden-within-worlds theme, 
 I was overjoyed to simply sit and watch the Scried pantomimes of past atrocities as they formed 
 out of thin air; the shifting images in a few of the games paintings were especially interesting.
 
  
  Undyings selection of weapons and spells were varied enough in their strengths that many different 
 combinations of the two were useful throughout the game: whether using the Gelziabar/Ectoplasm 
 combination, a short-range War Cannon/long-range Skull Storm mix, or a frenetic Scythe/Haste blend, 
 no two playthroughs were the same with sufficient experimentation. And no matter how many weapons 
 were at hand, using the Invoke spell to temporarily form a sizeable army of reanimated enemy corpses 
 was always a preferred option. However, once Patrick found enough Amplifiers, Mana Wells, and generous 
 health packs, the games battles were easy even on the most difficult setting.
  
  Undyings settings were among the best of any FPS, as were the sound effects. Both elements were 
 as strong in the dank, drippy darkness of an abandoned monastery and crypt as they were in the 
 islands breezy, hilly outdoor areas. Patricks trips into a different dimension  to the floating 
 platforms of nebulous Oneiros, or back in time to the familiar spaces of an intact monastery, or 
 to the prehistoric land of Eternal Autumn  served as an excellent departure from the real-world 
 locations in Ireland. The adventure as a whole covered a lot of ground even though many sections 
 of the mansion were repeated throughout each quest.
  
  Clive Barkers skill at creating fascinating yet repulsive characters, creatures, and plot twists 
 found a good home in video games. When coupled with solid coding and well-balanced gameplay, Barkers 
 story of the cursed Covenant family and their island of mysteries provided a near-perfect balance 
 of interesting visuals, chilling sound effects, and dreadful moments of anticipation satisfyingly 
 shattered by visceral destruction. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ElvisNixon
Rating: 9.3
Date: Sep 9, 2006 6:57 pm PT
Review:  This game has good action, good style and good production values, an incredible bargain bin find.
 
  
  Fast fun action. Not too simple, since one weapon and a spell of your selection can both be wielded 
 at the same time, double barreled style. It also has RPG elements since you can earn points towards 
 boosting the spell of your choice, and there is a decent number of useful items and ammo types.
 
  
  The sound design in this game is arguably the best sound design of any game: a great array of horror 
 effects, scary creature sounds, and intriguing ambient sounds.
  
  Graphics make good use of the quake 3 engine, but don't expect a high poly count compared to today's 
 games.
  
  However, the beasts that you encounter are frequently very well designed and animated, as are the 
 weapon and spell modeling. Pretty much everything comes together in the game. it is also lengthy, 
 with a fairly large number of bosses. As a hallmark of its time, you will also have to slay a couple 
 of mega size monsters at the very end.
  
  This game is a must buy bargain bin game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GaaraNoSuna
Rating: 9.1
Date: Sep 7, 2006 6:38 pm PT
Review:  Clive Barker's: Undying is simply frightening- in a good way that is. From the gruesome Howler's 
 (creature's somewhat resembling man's-best-friend) to the ghosts and gouls around every corner. 
 Covering the game on a rather superficial level, it sounds like the basic horror tale: An old man 
 is struck bedridden and cannot leave his home (which, incidentally, is haunted by the angry spirits 
 of his brothers and sisters. I'd say that would bring down the property value a bit, eh?) . He calls 
 upon a man known to fight down the undead. Eventually the house is rid of the spirits, eveyone 
 goes home, drinks their coffee, etc, etc.
  
  Not quite.
  
  Well, up until the "Go home and drink your jo" it's pretty much the same. You play as Patrick Galloway, 
 a fighter of evil, a firm believer in ghosts and a man with hella good aim. Ah, yes, did I mention 
 that he also weilds an emerald green stone (presumably enchanted) that tells him about the darker, 
 more evil sides of the story? I'm sure I didn't. The bedridden man, Jeremiah Covenant, is forced 
 to stay inside his house because of the illness that is eating away at his body (keep in mind that 
 his age is unknown, but he is presumed to be rather old) . His four siblings had long ago passed 
 away and seemed to have a fight to pick with Jeremiah. He sees their angry spirits around the house 
 and needs you to rid the house of them. Being long-term buddies, you're the first he's going to 
 call- naturally.
  
  The setting is brilliant. The mansion doesn't even seem to be a mere mansion- rather, a giant, 
 ornate, beautiful castle filled with creaking, groaning wooden doors, beautiful tapestries, and 
 millions of rooms. Not only that, but almost everything is interactable. If there's a mirror, you'd 
 better believe you'll be able to approach it to see your reflection. If there's a door to be opened, 
 you can open it with a click of a button (if the door is for some reason locked, Patrick will grunt 
 out a low, "It's jammed") . The graphics are mind-blowing, considering this was way before the time 
 of Oblivion or all the graphics we've become accustumed. Everything is three-dimensional, the characters 
 movements life-like. The villians don't simply attack with one move but a variety of defenses and 
 offenses. The game is indeed terrifying with the accompanied sound effects. Doors creak when opened, 
 footsteps echo through the long, twisted halls, the monsters scream and gurgle when they approach, 
 and when the magic stoned senses danger, it will whisper in an echoed rasp "Look" or "See" just 
 long enough to break the silence, only to fade away unexpectedly leaving the player feeling frightened- 
 the intended feeling. The game also offers an unsual alternative for all of us sick with following 
 the strick guide-lines of game playing. You can adventure all you want, collect journal entires 
 and, instead of just attacking the main 'boss' of the level head on (which is one of Jeremiah's 
 siblings, each one more deadly and powerful than the last) , you twist and turn to search for them 
 while they hunt you down, using their beasts and undead powers.
  
  This game is the kind that will hook you from the moment you play. With a great storyline like 
 this one, even I, a hater of first-person shooters, was pulled into the dark and enchanting world 
 of Clive Barker's: Undying. Perhaps their are no negatives to this game. I certainly can't think 
 of any. But here is a word of advice that you'd be a fool not to take: don't play with the lights 
 out.
  
  Ja Ne,
  Gaara 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dsd02_
Rating: 8.8
Date: Sep 5, 2006 9:41 am PT
Review:  Picked up as random recomendation it really "sucked me in" as this game has long and interesting 
 story witch is so missed in todays market. You are Patric, a lad with understanding of things not 
 from this realm, and you travel to your friend's home as he asks you to help him.. with his curse. 
 You owe him your life as he once saved yours, so you investigate.
  
  During investigation you encounter with various strange things and beings of witch just few do 
 not mean you any harm. As your enemies get stranger, you need more tactics and ways to "deal" with 
 them. That's where the interesting part of gameplay comes in. Not only you have various uncommon 
 weapons witch are rather pleasureful to use, but you get your special abilities, like striking 
 lighting or special vision which you can upgrade with amplifiers and scrolls. 
  
  However the maps are built a bit bulky for today and load screen pops out too often. But one real 
 minus witch doesn't count as an effect of passing time is controlls, witch were a bit difficult 
 to deal with when you are trying to pull off trick where you use all your powers in max efficiently. 
 
  
  Anyway, the ways to fight with your enemies, interactive ( most of the time ) surroundings and 
 interesting story make this a pretty well done game, witch I recomend to play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: UmaSama
Rating: 8.9
Date: Aug 23, 2006 9:21 pm PT
Review:  That's right, this is the best horror game ever made, it's ALMOST perfect, I'll explain why almost 
 in a bit. This game is great right from the start, it sets an outstanding atmosphere that last 
 (sadly) untill almost the end of the it. The most remarkable feature of the game it's the sound, 
 perfect, the whispers, the footsteps sounds, the thunders, the howling wind, along the game you 
 can get scared, for real.
  As for the graphics, nowadays kinda old, I must admit they're great for 2001, but after having 
 played Quake 4, I couldn't help to notice the flat textures, and the polygonal characters, but 
 as I want to emphacize this is a 2001 game.
  The gameplay is really good, mostly due to the ability to blend Spells with weapons, wich gives 
 a lot of versatility despise of counting with a limited ammount of weaponst throughout the game.
 
  The story, ahh the story, alongside the great sound they make this game a Masterpiece, it has 
 one of the best histories in a FPS ever, really immersive, but sadly it gets a little weird at 
 the end (you know kinda like a Stephen King book) , and that's the reason why this game it's Almost 
 perfect, the weird final act in wich you fight against (........) haha not going to tell ya, if 
 you wanna know play the game, I assure you won't regreat. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rambolito
Rating: 8.4
Date: Aug 22, 2006 2:02 am PT
Review:  As a reader of Clive Barker's books and having seen the "Hell-raiser" movies, I'd had to have this 
 game! And man did I enjoy it! When writing this review it has been a few years that I've completed 
 the game, but I still remember my first encounter with the jumping goblins (or whatever you'd call 
 'm) in the greenery. That's right after you've spoken with your friend and hear some noise downstairs 
 and you're telling him to go and check it out.
  When entering the greenery something came jumping towards me, creepy, I killed it and the second 
 one attacking me with my revolver, but just when I was reloading I got jumped from behind by number 
 three! Yikes! It's claws almost swept through the screen as it appeared! Blam! Blam! Blam! ... dead... 
 phew, that was pretty close! Okay, so from now on I'd better watch my back very closely.
  Remember that passage where you were walking through a hallway and all lights fall out and you're 
 jumped upon from all sides? F%$#! These moments are extra creepy when you're playing at night in 
 a totally dark room and having your surround sound turned on very loud.
  I loved the the different levels with their unique environments based upon the brother or sister 
 you've got to track down. Especially the one where you're transferred into the painting of one 
 of the brothers with the floating floor-panes and platforms.
  At this time the game "Jericho" is being developed, I'm definitely going to check that one out. 
 It better be as good as "Undying" was! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mryupcarlseen
Rating: 8.9
Date: Aug 5, 2006 8:14 pm PT
Review:  Clive Brakers Undying is one of the most underated games in recent history. Yes, it has all of 
 the makings of a great FPS. Rich graphics, superb gameplay, and a chilling storyline. A nice little 
 twist to the game is that it takes place in the 1920's. As far as FPS's go, Undying is on par with 
 the top games in the genre. What makes it so special is the plot and the fear factor. I have never 
 played a more suspenceful, scary game. Take the pills for your blood presure, put on some headphones, 
 sit by yourself in the dark, and go at it. The expierience is true heart-pounding, raw bone-curdling 
 mayhem. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: enesjusufi
Rating: 9.8
Date: Aug 1, 2006 4:47 pm PT
Review:  This is by FAR the scariest game EVER!!! Before you think of something about me... let me tell 
 you that im 26 years old and am actually a game freak so to say... i have played Similar games 
 to this on PS1-PS2-XBOX-XBOX360 and PC... Games like Resident Evil, Quake etc etc... and i have 
 never been "scared" on any Movie, Game or any Real Life Happening (well, sad maybe) ... thats NOTHING 
 compared to this game. 
  
  Let me try to explain how this game will scare the crap out of you Even if you are a person that 
 dont get scared... like me. Ok, first of all, this game has an AMAZING STORY that will keep you 
 Interested and glued to your Chair thru the whole game, the Sound.... the voices.... the howling.... 
 the SILENCE, the Darkness, The Loneliness (ESPECIALLY IF YOU PLAY ALONE ASWELL AT MIDNIGHT AND 
 HAVE HIGH VOLUME) , The Ghosts.... The ghosts... That half broken Flash Light... That LOOOONG Dark 
 Hall Way... The Beutifull Graphics in that Amazing Mansion.... soo..... will this make you scared?? 
 You think NOT... But it WILL... because it WILL destroy the "Tough Guy" in you.... brake your "mental 
 toughness"... it will bring forth the FEAR in you.... it will make YOU be scared... it WILL... 
 yes it WILL......... Why you say? BECAUSE YOUR BRAIN WILL GO NUTS OF NOT KNOWING WHATS GOING TO 
 HAPPEN NEXT!!!! YOU WILL WALK SLOWLY... AND YOU WILL PRAY TO GOD... THAT YOU DONT SCREAM THE NEXT 
 TIME A GHOST JUMPS UP INFRONT OF YOU FROM NOWHERE INFRONT OF YOUR FACE AND STARTS SCREAMING AT 
 YOU.... AND THEN  IT CATCHES YOU OFF GUARD... ALL THE TIME................... 
 ALL... THE... TIME.............. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: WYNDWARRIOR
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jun 9, 2006 11:42 am PT
Review:  I cannot deny the beauty of this game... Its unreal that an original first person game was put 
 together so well with such an original story and approach. When I first laid eyes on the game i 
 could see it was different. As I began to play and explore the mansion I felt renewed in my quest 
 for a first person action adventure shooter/Survival Horror/... I refuse to compare it to others 
 for its different in its design.... I didnt just blast away and destroy... I was fighting for survival. 
 The Mansion in the start was a real treat... not to mention the ghost creatures and the scares 
 along the way... Thumbs up... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DSBNH_basic
Rating: 8.5
Date: May 8, 2006 6:45 pm PT
Review:  Undying was sadly overlooked by most PC gamers when it was first released. At a glance it looks 
 like a rather straight forward shooter with a popular writer's name attached to it for that extra 
 push. Fortunately Undying quickly becomes a memorable experience precisely because of Barker's 
 presence. While the gameplay is interchangeable with any generic shooter the writing lifts the 
 game above this label by injecting enough tension and horror to keep you constantly wrapped up 
 in the story. 
  
  Rather than give a synopsis of the game's story I'd rather go into detail about what to expect 
 in terms of "scares". One of the reasons why the game is so memorable to me is because it manages 
 to create a feeling of dread all around you. There are moments where the old stand-by of a creature 
 blind siding the player and giving him a quick jolt of adrenaline are used but these moments are 
 thankfully kept to a minimum. For the most part the terror in the game comes from the wonderful 
 use of atmosphere, particular in the outer planes section of the game. An opportunity to create 
 a completely abstract realm is often wasted on designers that can't come up with anything other 
 than a familiar interpretation of Judeo-Christian hell. Fortunately the outer planes resemble something 
 more along the lines of limbo, with their suspended platforms floating amongst a red sky. The silence 
 in these areas is almost as bone chilling as the creatures that inhabit it, providing a completely 
 different atmosphere than that which can be found in the mansion and monastery.
  
  Ive focused mainly on the atmosphere thus far because it truly is the one outstanding aspect of 
 this game. As mentioned before the gameplay is rather straight forward, with most of your arsenal 
 involving human weapons and some magic spells to aid you along. These spells mainly stay in the 
 defensive and passive categories with conventional (and later on not-so-conventional) weapons making 
 up your main offensive arsenal. The graphics are solid, although they havent aged well. The models 
 in particular havent done well. However, the level design and artwork are fantastic. Sound is 
 where the game really shines, as with most horror games it is a big part of your experience and 
 works wonders to immerse you, from the far-off howls of demonic creatures to the deafening silence 
 of the wind calmly blowing in the outer planes.
  
  A solid experience throughout, even if you generally don't enjoy First Person Shooters you may 
 very well enjoy this game.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: nobeaner
Rating: 9.3
Date: Apr 10, 2006 12:16 pm PT
Review:  For me, this review of Undying is long overdue. I should have completed it when I first created 
 my Gamespot account, but being the disorganized person that I am I completely forgot about it until 
 I was recently flashing through my game collection.
  
  Undying was one of those rare gems that gets excellent reviews but flops in the market place. Which 
 was really too bad because the story being told was wonderful. Everything from your characters 
 history to the Covenants family history is covered with wonderful detail so macabre that it just 
 left me on the edge of my seat wondering what was going to happen next.
  
  The only let down I really have occurs later in the game when the story moves away from the mansion 
 and takes on a more adventure game feel. Outside of that, the characters were wonderful and the 
 voice acting so superb that playing this game was like watching a very interactive movie for me.
 
  
  We need more works from Clive Barker! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: linmukai
Rating: 9.2
Date: Apr 7, 2006 5:54 am PT
Review:  I loved Clive Barker's Undying when it came out. The atmosphere was great and it had a good story 
 with a likeable main character in Patrick. The graphical presentation of the game was very good 
 for its day, so much so that it wouldn't detract at all from replaying it again today, if only 
 I could find a copy. Sadly, I gave mine away after I'd played it and wish I had not now. Someone 
 mentioned the bargain bin for this in a very recent review but I have not seen it myself or I'd 
 buy it in a heartbeat.
  
  The unique weapons that grew more powerful over time and the excellent interface to the game really 
 added something special to an outstanding atmospheric and at times scary adventure. The music and 
 sound effects were quite good. In one particular section, a very unexpected event happened that 
 genuinely scared me the first time. Rare is the game that pulls that off in my experience.
  
  I would highly recommend Undying to anyone who enjoys shooters and horror themed games. If 
 you see it in the bargain bin, grab it. If you see two of them, get me one and email me! I'd love 
 playing through it again after all this time.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: BioHazard117
Rating: 8.8
Date: Apr 1, 2006 4:45 pm PT
Review:  Clive Barker's Undying is a fabulous shooter. It takes place in an old friend's mansion that is 
 basically haunted. You must uncover the secrets to your firend's past and what has happened on 
 the island that your friend's mansion is on. This shooter is very spooky and scary and will make 
 you jump, no matter how old you are or when you play. It has a very horror-like atmosphere that 
 is present throughout the whole game. The game is fairly lenghtly and you will find it a very fun 
 ga, ing expeirence. The sound is great and helps mantain the spooky atmosphere. The graphics are 
 also nice and includes many dark shadows also to help mantain the atmosphere. One thing you may 
 not like is how you must play with a left-handed gun view, but that can be changed if you take 
 time with mods and the console. Overall, this game is great nd anyone will enjoy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rdhnightwolf
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 27, 2006 11:48 am PT
Review:  If you're looking for one of the original horror style games, this one can fit the bill. Clive 
 barker is a master at creating horror filled environments. (Just take a look at the Hellraiser 
 films) This game has some great moments that make you kind of stop and look around. The environment 
 is done very well and you truely get the feeling that something bad is just about to happen. The 
 weapons are all very uniqe and have a good purpose in most places.
  
  My only gripe about the game is that there wasn't much of anything for multi player. I would have 
 really liked to have played this at a LAN with friends.
  
  If your looking for a good SP experience, this might be right up your alley.
  
  I'm marking 
 this as "bargain bin" as it is a bit outdated. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rhondia
Rating: 8.9
Date: Mar 25, 2006 5:48 am PT
Review:  The music and the tilt is one of the best ever!
  I bought this game many years ago and I'm still playing this game.
  The enviroment is perfect 
 and the magic is all over.
  I loved the muic of the main title, but the sound in the game is not so good.
  Clive Barker's 
 undying is a must have game gor all retro gamers.
  If you have not played this game, you must do it now.
  The past and the future is perfecty matched 
 in the game.
  Clive Barker knows how to write a magic story with all the appropriate details in it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: godsuki
Rating: 9.3
Date: Mar 31, 2006 9:02 am PT
Review:  Since when a Game based on a Novel was that good even better for a first person shooter, Horror 
 and Suspense. Since when an Irish was good even for the speaking of a Irish was cool sound like 
 similar to William Wallace.
  
  Short story, You the hero must help a friend to end a family curse and the demos of the house want 
 you death because their main goal is to bring back a bad king to rule the world, typical of your 
 villan. 
  
  You can get cool weapons and power like to see the past and future.
  Also the boss battle are easy and hard depends what are you tactics.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Melting_Window
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 27, 2006 8:04 am PT
Review:  When somebody starts to speak about the death of PC gaming, most of the time I bring this game 
 as an example. But it is a double edged sword, since this game is a masterpiece but it sold very 
 poorly; everyone was buying expansion packs to the Sims. 
  This experience really begins to transcend what the media calls video games. It has a beautifully 
 realized story, characters with attitudes that jump out of the monitor, gameplay that is thoroughly 
 fulfilling (the intertwining if guns and magic) , a setting that transforms polygons into moods, 
 and beautiful mystery.
  The gameplay is a combination of magic and firepower, you can level up the magic and have a selection 
 of firearms. But the gameplay is not about the biggest gun for the biggest monster, since some 
 enemies need to be stunned by magic then assaulted by your revolver. The boss battles with each 
 member of the cursed family is choreographed to perfection, since the tense moments when first 
 sight of the foe is given to the climactic battle.
  The setting is a mood piece of tragedy and mystery; dark corners, staring statues, structures that 
 reach the Heavens and dip toward Hades. As you walk down the corridor, the curtains dance in the 
 distance, then a figure appears and runs toward you; scenes with this much tension mark a high 
 point of entertainment.
  The sound design is truly inspiring, the howls and moans heard in the distance. Actors that truly 
 believe in the experience and put emotion into their words. The soundtrack, as the setting, ranges 
 from flights of fancy to crippling claustrophobic.
  
  It is a sad conclusion that experiences such as this aren't given the appreciation of the public, 
 instead humiliations of Grand Theft Auto are splattered in the morning papers. Entertainment such 
 as this should be kept in a museum for previous generation to encounter and experience 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CodWars
Rating: 9.4
Date: Feb 8, 2006 7:01 pm PT
Review:  this is still a wonderful game and I so wished it continue and wish it was given another chance..
 
  
  such lack of atteion made it sink... but hopeing it will raise from it's grave
  
  it may not have the big graphics of today but it's story line is rich and full of excitement
 
  
  there is more to this then just horror but the true horror that can run in the lines of family
 
  
  edgar allan poe's was used alot in this, the house of usher was a curse family themselfs, having 
 dying out like flies till the only one seems to to live, but yet does he seem like the liveing 
 at all?
  
  but finding the true family secert is as sad and scarey then hearing about the conditon..
  
 
  which is whhat jerimah and his family suffer
  like you can't control life, but it controls you....
  
  the chartcers are rich in story and 
 in time, though you can tell you have somethings unsolved
  
  This work from clive barker seems to be more Asexural then his other works, you find lots of sex 
 in his work and reading over the process he wanted to add alot of it
  
  but I think even with or without it, it would still make a wonderful story. though you can tell 
 throughout the game clive snuck alittle things in there that you may not see. wish is was in there
 
  
  Clive also knows what makes the human want to crawl away and how humans will remain
  
  and it has been known the irish consider themselfs a decendent from powerful races of kings that 
 once rules they're land... doesn't make it surpiseing that the siblings reach deep in themselfs 
 to awaken these powers
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: srinivasamoor
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jan 14, 2006 10:23 am PT
Review:  An addictive and 'hell-raising' PC horror game... still what the hell happened? 
  Have you played Clive Barker's 'Undying'? It was one of the scariest, spookiest games the gaming 
 world had witnessed till date. Anyone who plays it, is destined to be thrilled throughout the gameplay! 
 Suiting narrations, eerie arena, dull/ill lightings, vicious spells, ambidexterous Patrick, captivating 
 cutscenes, horrendous beasts, lurking horror Lizbeth, heinous howlers, gothic gargoyles, ornamental 
 Oracle, subtler texture designs, stunning story line, spine-chilling sound tracks, ominous choirs, 
 poetic parchment entries of Clive Barker and what not? With all the complex ingredients so intricately 
 interwoven into a coherent whole, it is a true master piece of horror- genre games. Curtly... a 
 PC game personification of horror! About the 'not-adequate-a-recognition' the game got, I am verily 
 annoyed, even more than the makers of it! Why not the promoters (EA games) give it a retry in the 
 market? For those who missed, it will be a belated boon. A must-play game for every PC gamer! Why 
 can't the team think of making a sequel, which those who 'experienced' the magic are all expectant 
 of and market at least the next installment wisely and nicely? I mean Undying 2! Let us hope for 
 the be (a) st to come! 
  If any horror game fans are reading this, please give it a genuine try, if you haven't played this 
 scare-game of the rare sort... 
  If any film producer/director happen to see this, please contact Clive Barker to know the plot 
 better... I am sure, it'll be filmed one day!
  Finally... an appeal - help 'Undying' from dying! 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: woef
Rating: 7.8
Date: Jan 12, 2006 11:07 am PT
Review:  I hate the fact that Undying did not make it in the game business, and that they havent made sequel.
 
  
  Im gonna review undying.
  
  Gameplay: First of all, one of the best things of undying, the gameplay is very smooth and offers 
 very much.
  Lots of different enemies, spooky story, more difficulties, end- bosses, unique maps and levels 
 that i have never seen in a game before.
  Its a very addicting game.
  
  Graphics:
  Only one thing about the graphics, smooth and nice graphics.
  
  Sounds:
  The sounds of undying 
 are very good, voice acting is good as well, the enemies make scary but believing sounds, the sounds 
 are just amazing.
  
  Online:
  No online gameplay, i hope anyone makes a good mod for online gameplay, because it would be awesome.
 
  
  Variety: Good, lots of maps and enemies.
  
  Value:
  Good and not a very high price for a good game.
  
  This was my review. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: EyeNixon
Rating: 9.3
Date: Dec 21, 2005 1:05 pm PT
Review:  Clive Barker's Undying is a masterful display of excellent design, great levels, and amazing creatures 
 with a terrifying atmosphere.
  Undying keeps you in a near constant state of panic, hardly letting you rest or take a breath as 
 the action ramps up every iota of a second you play the game. With one of the most interesting 
 play mechanics, and even a somewhat customizable twist, this should satisfy an array of players.
 
  
  Undying manages to creep you out with a great atmosphere that was helped along by the talented 
 and genius horror novelist Clive Barker (Most remember him by his involvement in Hellraiser) . All 
 the creators are wonderfully design, and appropriatly horrifying. Clive Barker even chips in with 
 some good voice acting (he voices the deep and graty Ambrose) . Levels are beautifuly designed along 
 with great smooth graphics, and some excellent lighting. Creatures all move fluidly, some jumping 
 about, others slowly crawling around and flinging acid or swinging their claws. The graphics department 
 only fails in a few unpolished instances, while areas such as the Covenant Mansion (explanation 
 soon) are incredibly well done, some areas (mostly the outdoors) look a bit choppy when it comes 
 to the texture placement and etc.
  
  Undying revolves around you as Patrick Galloway, a Irishman exiled from his country. Upon receiving 
 a urgent letter from his friend Jeremiah Covenant (who had saved him from a horrible fate years 
 earlier, and left Patrick with a strange shaman's stone named the Gel' Zaibar) he immediatly sets 
 sail, knowing his dept to his friend. Upon arriving, things are much worse than you could've predicted, 
 and the Covenant Mansion hides terrible secrets, and even a more dangerous family past.
  
  When you're playing Undying, the game will work in a interesting and new way. One hand controls 
 firing your weapon, the other spells. Spells range from Ectoplasm (fires damaging magic at your 
 enemy) to bizarre spells like Skullstorm (fires floating skulls like cannons at your enemies) . 
 The guns are also interesting, with nice selections like the freezing Tibetan War Cannon, and the 
 traditional Shotgun, along with many more. 
  You also carry around a full inventory, where you store objects from your travels, these can be 
 med-pacs, bullets, amplifiers and etc. This does present a problem as it is difficult to switch 
 between inventory objects in a fight, the same goes for weapons. 
  Sound is incredible, but I'll leave you to discover the quality. Wolf-life creatures (howlers) 
 will wail and leap at you convincingly. Certain creatures will let loose screeches, and your weapons 
 fire with a satisfying boom. 
  
  Undying can be a bit unfair at times. At certain points, the game may suddenly surprise you when 
 the odds are most definitely not in your favor. Some particularly annoying instances include a 
 sudden showdown in a hallway where all the lights estinguish, leaving you panicked and mauled from 
 all sides by several different creatures in your blind rush, or the sudden emergence of skeletons 
 surrounding you. Other problems lay in the fact a good %50 of the boss fights are too generic, 
 mostly shooting at them until they slump in a weakened state, whereupon you decapitate them with 
 your scythe (the only way to permanently kill bosses) . Thankfully, the other boss fights are incredibly 
 satisfying (including a AMAZING boss sequence with Ambrose) . 
  
  All in all, Undying has few problems, and will present a challenge and good time for anybody looking 
 for a game that can also cause them to lose bladder control in fear. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dexfx69
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 16, 2005 11:23 pm PT
Review:  Ever had the experience where you're watching a horror film and realize your body is getting tense 
 and stiff, your breathing is shallow, and you start looking around the room in fear of something 
 jumping out at you? Undying is a rare game, that actually has you scared most of the time. In addition, 
 the graphics still hold up very well in late 2005, and the score was created by none other than 
 Bill Brown, famed orchestral composer for film and games. A new texture upgrader has been released 
 by an italian fansite, which upgrades the textures to 128, giving the game new life in 2005. If 
 you like Doom 3 or F. E. A. R., get ready for the ultimate experience in suspense and horror: Undying. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TomNationwide
Rating: 8.8
Date: Dec 10, 2005 7:18 am PT
Review:  I played through this game long ago upon release and just played through it again and I must say, 
 never have I played a game that scared me as much the second time as the first time. Graphically 
 this game shows its age for sure and is a bit on the simple side when it comes to combat, but much 
 of that is simply that the genre of the FPS has evolved quite a bit. What makes this game so compelling 
 is its innate ability to know when you, the player, need a scare. Countless times I jumped from 
 the edge of my seat at what was happening around me. 
  The game places you in the role of Patrick Calloway, a former soldier, who is something of an occult 
 dabbler. He has a few minor powers which will increase as the game moves along. One of his friends 
 from the Army has a problemn in his mansion. His family members have all died and he has asked 
 you to investigate... This is your setup. Dive in and prepare to be scared... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Idiom
Rating: 8.8
Date: Oct 15, 2005 11:15 am PT
Review:  This is a good game, the graphics are good and the gameplay blends different combat elemets well. 
 It has a console feel to the iterface but it still works well. The game does run on XP but you 
 should expect it to crash every now and then so save often.
  The plot isnt spectacular but it drives the game well and has some twists to keep you interested. 
 The game always has a feeling of forward momentum so you don't stay in one place too long and get 
 bored. The game is very spooky in places and is probably one of the scariest games i've played 
 (peers Doom3, alien v Pred) .
  On the whole this is a solid, plot driven FPS with some scares that will keep you busy for several 
 days, well worth playing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Aggie1295
Rating: 9.4
Date: May 4, 2005 4:38 am PT
Review:  Clive Barker's Undying is probably the scariest game I have played, and only the recent Doom 3 
 has come close. The amazing thing about Undying, is that is creates such a great atmosphere with 
 the sound. The sound is just great, and it probably is the biggest reason for the game seeming 
 so creepy. The monsters are challenging, and the game play is interesting, but the scary atmosphere 
 makes it stand out. The combat system, combining majic and weapons is fun. The story, although 
 not completely falling into place, is immersive and keeps you interested. The final boss is so 
 so, but most of the other bosses are pretty decent. Overall a great game and I would love to see 
 a sequal some day. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BlackFunk
Rating: 8.9
Date: Mar 25, 2005 8:51 pm PT
Review:  Finally after all these years I finish Undying. This is one very good game and one very fine story 
 to boot. Written by horror grand master Clive Barker, his writing does shine through allowing for 
 a very cohesive story line. Add to that the brilliant work performed by the development team merging 
 Clive Barker's story with great looking graphics and even more scary sounds. There is a constant 
 sense of boding, scary nervousness that put me on the edge. 
  
  Finishing it now in 2005 (Undying being a 2001 game) , it's graphics might be slightly dated, but 
 the simple joy of the story and the overall polish of the game in graphics and sounds, makes this 
 one solid game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: necromancering
Rating: 9.2
Date: Feb 25, 2005 3:19 pm PT
Review:  This game first came into my hands when i bought a anthology of darkness video games. I didnt think 
 much of this game until one day i finally installed and started playing. I was quite surprised 
 as how good this game was. Never before i was spooked by a game as much as this one. Imagine this 
 you war walking down a hallway and suddenly all the lights starts to flicker. Then a man appears 
 out of nowhere in front of you. Then all of a sudden his skin isint there anymore and there are 
 metals and hooks are hanging all over his body. This game is very creepy and quite entertaining. 
 You you meet undead skeletons to demons of many shapes and sizes to werewolves. 
  Through out the game you get to weild revolvers, shotguns and other worldly creatures which are 
 able to shoot freezing orbs at the enemy. You also posess spiritual powers which will allow you 
 to shoot flaming skulls to energy bursts. 
  So if you are in for kicking some undying ass or if just want to get back to some good old fst 
 than this is the game for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KingFrizzy
Rating: 9.4
Date: Feb 13, 2005 5:41 pm PT
Review:  Clive Barker is a known scaretator, by that, I mean someone who knows how to make something that 
 scares you. He has made movies like Hellraiser, that, while not that impressive cinematically, 
 are going to make you jump a few times. Well, unless of course you're a "tough guy" who isn't scared 
 by anything.
  
  Undying is his first real venture into gaming, and now almost four years later, seems to be his 
 last. I remember when I first bought this game, I didn't know what I was getting myself in to. 
 I'm not too big on scary games, outside of the Resident Evil series. But this game, whoa, it's 
 absolutely amazing. Undying may very well be the best horror-themed computer game around.
  
  The gameplay really stands out as the best part of Undying. It's in first-person, as if it 
 were your typical FPS, however, the core element of attacking is through your unique weapons and 
 cool magic effects. You have the ability to use mana throughout the game, sort of like a spell, 
 and that often can do considerable damage on your enemies. Also, the standard offensive weapons 
 are really good as well. There is a scythe, and even some missile cannon that's really good.
  
  The graphics and sound of Undying are also really good, particularly the voice-work. All of 
 the characters have a unique touch to them and you'll likely remember each of them throughout your 
 journey. Not to mention, the great sound effects and bone-chilling screams you'll hear in the mansion, 
 or wherever you are.
  
  Overall, Undying is really just an excellent game. It's not only one of the best horror-themed 
 computer games out there, it's one of the best computer games period. This is a game you'll be 
 remembering for a long time after you beat it. It's too bad they haven't made a sequel yet. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheDarthvader
Rating: 8.1
Date: Dec 27, 2004 12:35 pm PT
Review:  I bought this game thinking it would be scary. And i was right, it was.
  First of all I have to say this game has the best and the scariest sound effects i have ever heard 
 in my entire life. The visuals are very impressive too. 
  However, this game is just not the one to play. The weapons are so bad, i dont even think they 
 can be called a weapon. None of them is destructive. Plus, the game is just too darn difficult, 
 the enemies are way too big for such small weapons to handle. This game doesnt have a multiplayer. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MasterMarcus
Rating: 8.4
Date: Nov 6, 2004 5:36 pm PT
Review:  Undying may be overlooked by the mass of gamers, and sometimes underappreciated, yet it's quite 
 a stylish FPS  la Doom. The game is CRISP. This ''crispiness'' is not only apparent via the graphics, 
 textures, and the overall construct; also the audio effects imprint a lot the interaction, rendering 
 the atmosphere spooky ( a good precursor to Far Cry and Doom 3 for that matter ) . The sounds are 
 so well coded, at various frequencies, throughout the campaign which is a tad short though. Probably 
 just the way the developers wanted to be, for a crisp doomish experience having its own personality 
 with all the victorian indoors and cathedral exteriors. Oh, and those shotgun firing sounds with 
 the smoke are perfect examples of the crisp interaction the player can enjoy.
  
  Action sequences against creatures are fast & furious, pretty conventional though and dispersed 
 along a linear layout. It is true that after the cathedral sequence, the final stages of the game 
 become short and tedious. Transition between the levels can be questionable too; the devs could 
 have made a better use of an otherwise promising story. Nevertheless, Undying remains a short but 
 etremely satisfying FPS combining Doom elements. For an early 2001 release, it can still be compared 
 to the more recent Painkiller and Doom 3, and presents an enjoyable gameplay even by 2004 standards. 
 A rare gem that could have been even more prized with a longer SP and a good MP. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sagi_e
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 30, 2004 1:06 pm PT
Review:  The game was one of the scariest games I've ever played. It keeps you on your toes ready for the 
 "worst". the sound is so real that I found out I could not play the game with the lights off!!! 
 I recommend this game to anyone who loves scary movies and wants to be in one!
  The story line is deep and keeps you in the game, which helps you "live" the game.
  although 
 this review is writen more then 3 years after the game came out, the graphics are still decent 
 enough and still allows for a great expirience. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: martlume
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 20, 2004 12:11 pm PT
Review:  Scaaaaaa-ry :) ... imagine yourself into an old mansion which your mysteriously dying friend upstairs 
 has asked you to explore. Dark rooms, you hear whispers, thunder is striking outside, and you are 
 holding a rusty old pistol with 12 bullets in your sweaty hands... Suddenly ugggg-ly little creatures 
 leap at you from dark corners uhhhh the excellent soundwork helps a lot, too, to create one of 
 the scariest games ever. Undying also has some really impressive settings to make you remember 
 some moments of this game for a long time. The ability to cast spells with a right and use a weapon 
 with a left hand is also unique, as are some of the weapons - scythe being the most useful of them. 
 The plot moves at an excellent pace, the character gains new spells and needs to make use of each 
 of them to advance to the next area. There are lots of other nice details in Undying: in some places 
 whispers give you clues; your basic spell enables you to see the otherside of the world for a limited 
 time - and often the things you see in the "other dimension" are pretty terrifying (picture) .
 
  
  18/20 - Based on : 20 HOURS
  3/4 PRODUCTION VALUES - Good but not spectacular.
  4/4 ACCESSIBILITY - Actually it begins so scarily that some people might get terrified...
  4/4 
 PACING - The strength of Undying. Good rate of learning new magic, finding new weapons, proceeding 
 to totally new areas, interesting "bosses" too.
  3/4 INNOVATION - Weapons like scythe, a spell that enable you to see the scary stuff in "parallel 
 universe", voices giving clues. Not so innovative really, but rather a game done right.
  4/4 IMMERSION - A game you will remember. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SkullLeader00
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jun 8, 2004 1:33 pm PT
Review:  Undying is an instant classic in my eyes! This game is absolutely amazing and the best part of 
 it ... NOBODY KNOWS IT!!!
  6 months after this game came out it was on sale for $19. This game was the ultimate example of 
 how marketing can hurt you if not applied. This game could have been a heavy hitter and one of 
 the top games of that year ... but because it was so poorly marketed and no one really knew about 
 it, only a few really enjoyed it as much as me. Let me break it down:
  The Graphics: Run smoothly and are a beauty to see. The great thing about it is that it is a long 
 single player game with many different enemies and end bosses.
  Gameplay: Typicall FPS. Nothing more nothing less
  Sounds: Soundtrack is decent but the sound 
 effects make it worth while
  Value: This game is seperated from the rest because it does a great job scaring the *%%^* out of 
 you! Level designs and worlds are so much fun and if you find yourself playing late at night alone 
 ... you won't last =D 
::::::

::::::
UserName: omfgbmxdude
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jul 27, 2003 6:22 pm PT
Review:  I had to play this game again with my new rig, just to see if when i played i was too wussy, or 
 the game is really scary. I must say that with faster graphics and better sound, this game scares 
 even more! I had to stop playing coz my brain was getting mad at me.
  
  The game has one of the ambients ive ever seen, a good story and great sound, specially with 6.1 
 system.
  
  The graphics dont look so good by todays standarts, but they are still good and highly enjoyable. 
 If you never played this game, I really think you should. I've played tons of fps and i still highly 
 recommend this one.
  
  I've seen it for sale for only 10, its a really good deal. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
