-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Close Combat III: The Russian Front
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/strategy/closecombat3therf/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Jan 21, 1999
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 9.2
Critic Score: 7.8, 14 Review (s)
User Score: 8.8, 355 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Microsoft Game Studios
Developer: Atomic Games
Genre: Historic Turn-Based...
Date:     Dec 31, 1998
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Close Combat III: The Russian Front is the best Close Combat game of the bunch. 

 At first glance, Close Combat IIII seems a lot like Close Combat II, which in itself is not a terrible 
 thing. The game runs comfortably on older hardware, and thankfully Atomic hasn't jumped on the 
 "every game needs to be 3D" bandwagon that has become so pervasive in the industry. Graphically 
 it looks just like Close Combat II with photo-realistic terrain and smoothly animated units. The 
 sound effects seem a tad bit weaker than in previous games. They still sound great, but Close Combat 
 III doesn't have quite the symphony of death as the previous installment. It could be because the 
 fighting is more spread out, thanks to the larger maps. The size of the maps, which are three times 
 the size of Close Combat II's battlefields, is the first real gameplay difference you'll notice. 
 They give you more room for maneuvering but at the expense of a lot of hurrying up and waiting. 
 The first general difference you'll notice is the enormous scale of the game. Instead of focusing 
 on one operation, Close Combat III focuses on the entire Eastern Front from 1941 to 1945. This 
 opens up a huge array of weapon platforms and troops for dealing death, and hey, variety is always 
 a good thing in a game.  

 The interface hasn't changed drastically but has been improved. No longer is a quarter of the screen 
 taken up by the status bar. Instead, a single bar informs you of everything you need to know, though 
 it only concentrates on one unit at a time. There is also an option to expand the bar to include 
 all your forces. Right clicking on a unit brings up the command list, which now includes the "ambush" 
 command. Ambush sets your troops to hide and come out only if the enemy is extremely close. This 
 command and the "defend" command are direction sensitive - a feature that is new to the series. 
 Changing directional facing is handled well. Click on a unit with the ambush or defend command, 
 and a circle appears around it, with an arc highlighting its facing. Drag the arc to where you 
 want the unit to face and click again. This is also helpful in positioning idle tanks so they don't 
 expose their weak sides to the enemy.   

 Several new gameplay elements have been added. No longer do you have to worry about your troops 
 choosing the most open terrain when you order them to move. Your units can be assigned to move 
 via a series of waypoints, allowing you to pick the most advantageous route. Several new features 
 are borrowed from resource-gathering real-time strategy games such as group numbering, drag selecting, 
 and status bars above the unit. At first they might seem like a gimmick or some sort of attempt 
 to make the Close Combat series appeal to a wider audience. Thankfully the inclusion of these features 
 doesn't mean it has been dumbed down for the mass market. In fact, you'll come to realize that 
 they add immensely to the experience. Group numbering is great for your mortar teams. Number them, 
 and in the heat of battle, instead of trying to locate them on the map, losing precious seconds, 
 hit their number, and you're instantaneously ready to rain death. Drag selecting allows you to 
 easily advance whole sections of your force at once or to lay down a withering barrage of fire. 
 Finally, the status bars help in two ways. Because they can be changed to represent anything from 
 a unit's health to its ammo status, they allow easy situational awareness of your forces. Second, 
 on some battlefields such as the snow-covered maps, the status bars make it easy to spot where 
 your units are located.  

 Close Combat III allows you to duke it out against live opponents or the excellent AI in single 
 scenarios, operations (a series of linked scenarios) , custom-made scenarios, or campaigns. The 
 game really earns its stripes in the campaign mode. Here you start with a small number of units 
 that garner experience as the war drags on. The more battles you win, the higher in rank you go 
 and the more troops you can command. Something new to the series is the inclusion of varying qualities 
 of troops. Now you can choose from conscripts, standard, or elite forces. This really changes the 
 way you plan battles, especially if you're leading a horde of conscripts. In between battles you 
 can rest your forces, refit them with different equipment, or retire them out of the campaign. 
   

 If you've never played a Close Combat game before, the battles will probably be quite a shock. You 
 should expect Saving Private Ryan and not Rambo. Some of your troops will become heroes; others 
 will run shrieking from the enemy. The perfect assault will be broken up by that antitank gun you 
 didn't see. You might have expected the enemy to have no tanks, only to find a large contingency 
 of them thundering down on your line. A key leader will die by sniper fire at the most inopportune 
 moment. Unlike other wargames, you won't find your units reduced to attack/defense/movement numbers. 
 There are no hexes, nor are there turns. It's all played in real time, with each shell computed 
 individually, and morale playing a key role. Winning isn't about getting the perfect odds ratio 
 with a terrain bonus; it's about knowing your weapons and troops and commanding them effectively. 
 War is pure chaos, and too many games reduce it to black and white numbers. The Close Combat series 
 is sweet entropy and what every wargame should be.  

 There are a few complaints, though they should be viewed like winning a Porsche and not liking the 
 color; these aren't problems per se but rather elements that could have been altered to make the 
 experience even better. First on the list is the way artillery is handled. Off-board artillery 
 finally makes an appearance, but it's limited to one type for either side, and the player has no 
 control over it. Being able to buy salvos of various types before a scenario would have been great. 
 Next, you can forget about a Henschel Hs 129 swooping down to devastate Russian armor with its 
 30mm MK 101 gun. Tac air is once again left out. Finally, the campaigns take place on the same 
 maps as the single battles, which allows you to essentially practice the campaign. It would have 
 been nice to have no prior knowledge of the maps, forcing tactics on the fly.  

 Close Combat III: The Russian Front is the best Close Combat game of the bunch and personally probably 
 the best wargame to grace your hard drive ever. Like that new album, at first it doesn't seem to 
 differ greatly from previous works. Some of the new features appear to have been thrown in just 
 to follow the trend. Play it enough, and you'll discover all the subtleties that make Close Combat 
 III the magnum opus it is. All developers should look to Atomic Games when making a sequel. Atomic 
 always keeps what works and expands on it with plenty of fresh material. If you want a wargame 
 that tests your tactical skills more than your arithmetic skills, this is that game. It's challenging, 
 engrossing, and shows that you don't need a P2 450 with two Voodoo 2s in SLI to have a good time. 
    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (8 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: jjfz
Rating: 9.6
Date: Apr 7, 2007 4:42 pm PT
Review:  Close Combat III is an amazing WWII RTS game that deals with the Eastern Front (Third Reich/Soviet 
 Union) . You began as a master sergeant and can eventually become a major. Both sides are playable, 
 with many campaigns, operations, and scenarios. However, the most comprehensive campaign is the 
 Grand Compaign that begans with the invasion of Soviet Union, and ends in the shattered ruins of 
 Berlin. The gameplay is unique at that time because your men are divided into groups rather than 
 individually like Red Alert. Furthermore, the ballistics, and modelling are totally realistic, 
 and it soon becomes obvious why the T-34 made virtually the entire Wehrmacht obsolete over night. 
 It requires both long term planning, as well as quick and decisive micromanagement of a bazooka 
 group hunting down a Tiger Tank. The graphics is not bad for a game made in 1998. The sound is 
 the weakest part of the game. The theme song is not very powerful nor interesting. There's only 
 a few songs for the entire game. The sound effect is rather limited as well. This game has great 
 value and it's very rewarding to destroy several enemy tanks with just one Jagdpanther, especially 
 in multiplayer. I would recommend this everybody, however, now few computers can actually play 
 this rather old game, especially with the advent of Vista, but Matrix is apparently making a modernized 
 version after Cross of Iron so please check it out! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mentat76
Rating: 9.3
Date: Dec 20, 2006 4:40 am PT
Review:  Superb game with hearth thumbing action.
  
  extremely well balanced action and reality is at the top of the line.
  
  Hard to describe as 
 you have to play for yourself to feel how it rocks!
  
  Tanks storming the fronts but they are not invincible, a nice panzershcreck shot from rear will 
 turn them nice smoking toasters!
  
  Infantry is stunned, pinned, suppressed, paniced, winded, tired, and broken. Realism is Amazing! 
 you have to know when to thrust your men, when they will abandon you.
  
  Roster screen is also merrymaking as Will you request an anti tank squad which is a more easy on 
 your requestion points or an artillery brigade which punchs hard but very difficult to move ? or 
 another sturmtruppen team for strengthening the backbone of your regiment?
  
  The very much i like in this game is there is no energy bars on top of units. If they are hit, 
 they are casualties. Tanks does have a single shot life, but the shot is important as is it coming 
 from a 50mm short barreled artillery or a 105mm howitzer or a famous 88mm antiaircraft gun? You 
 have to know your vehicles characteristics. Its armor, its firepower. Also you need to know where 
 to use them and where you will most probably loose them.
  
  Will you risk to move your Tank in city streets leaving your infantry advancing without an armor 
 support? There ight be an armor could be waiting and it can wreak havoc on your infantry? then 
 you can move them in but an ambushed infantry will ruin them as tanks have poor line of sight.
 
  
  the only thing i was unhappy about was, scenarios was fixed and i was expecting to see a panzer 
 general style mission brifings and on map explanations. Also it would have been better to be able 
 to change the course of the history. But unfortunately you cant. even you win the Moscow fight. 
 The history goes on as on the real world and you still have to fight battle of kursk and operation 
 citadel.
  
  As a conclusion everything in the game is brilliantly balanced and put together. I have spent months 
 in front of my computer and one thing i had on my mind: I dont need any other game after this 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zornundo
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 21, 2006 8:29 am PT
Review:  You will see the awesome might of the German Tiger tank in this game! Fear the Tiger!
  
  This is a very fun game. It takes playing a bit before you start to understand the usefulness of 
 many of the units. That being said, you can take a few different tracks to play this game. All 
 tanks? All infantry? Rockets? You decide! 
  
  What I really like about this game is that units that do well in battle can get promoted, get medals, 
 and improve their stats. I don't know how much it helps units to get better stats, but its really 
 fun to do so!
  
  After playing one side all the way through the game, I decided to play a campaign where I would 
 try to not to lose any units and have all my units get promoted real high and get all the medals. 
 For tanks, it is not too hard. For infantry, just not getting obliterated is a challenge. Finding 
 enough targets for infantry just so they can get promoted is almost impossible. Your infantry has 
 to be in just the right position to be able to lay waste to enemy infrantry or even take out a 
 vehicle or a tank.
  
  Overall, I have to say that this game is awesome! This isn't a Command & Conquer game, where you 
 just point and click. This takes planning, and lots of it, and even then you still might get thrashed. 
 Play it today! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Franco_atirador
Rating: 9.6
Date: Feb 19, 2006 2:31 pm PT
Review:  so far there is no game that can match close combat in terms of realism and gameplay .A true masterpiece 
 worty of every of my 5 stars. A classic that caught my attention since the first time i played 
 it. A true epic gaem simple hard-hitting and surprisingly fun. It has the best layout of the close 
 combat series , a simple yet amazing gameplay capable of holding you to the last moment ,hour and 
 mission of the game.
  Instead of relaying in graphics, it took the strategy games to a whole new level were overall concept 
 is more inportant then visual effects and graphics, were you can feel really what strategy games 
 "should" be all about.
  Its sad that close combat 3 russian front has no sucessors ,since SSI transformed it for for good 
 and forever. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nai205
Rating: 9.4
Date: Dec 28, 2005 1:13 pm PT
Review:  After playing Close Combat A Bride too Far, I was initially confused by the slightly different 
 unit requisition procedure, but once I understood that units would gain experience and transfer 
 from one battle of a campaign to the next, I loved the idea and the implementation. This game is 
 one of my all-time favorites, and I spent many a night desperately holding onto factories in Stalingrad 
 against the German invaders. For a strategy game, this game had many memorable sequences and battles, 
 from the initial German invasion into Poland, to being out gunned and outnumbered at Stalingrad 
 to the Korsun battles with the "Mother of all tank battles". It was tense and exciting watching 
 my T-34s desperately try to outmaneuver the Panzers and pierce their armor. Ultimately, I don't 
 feel any strategy game has truly captured the level of balance and excitement that the Close Combat 
 series has established. The only series today that comes close to the same level of tactical decision 
 making and presentation is the Blitzkrieg series. Close Combat will surely not disappoint, especially 
 if you find it in the deep discount bin. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: absintheguy818
Rating: 9.8
Date: Nov 22, 2005 5:53 pm PT
Review:  style that can compare one iota, t this. Its very real esp the many many different types of weapons, 
 esp. tanks. The best part is all the weapons have true sounds, so like the red gun fire isnt the 
 smae as the germanic. Hours of game play I still play this. If yo find one on ebay snatch it up, 
 Its a rare find and you be glad you got it, as it gets rarer , the value will only increase I was 
 offred 50 bucks for mine but said no way....
  
  This is the best of the sires cause the line of sight is realistic you can go in a tall churxh 
 with a sniper and hit guy behind a rcok near buy at a longer distance then a guy in the lower floor 
 you the same church your in. also u can put a guy on a a ledge and hit tnaks in the valley below 
 when they cant see you, its fun to play as the germans , hooray for the bad guy type thing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ndnjedi
Rating: 9.2
Date: Mar 25, 2005 11:12 pm PT
Review:  I continually load this game up and play it. Can easily sap your time, Civ II style (shudder) .
 
  
  Historically accurate (relatively) gameplay, equipment, and maps. Russian tank drivers extremely 
 accurate (NO, NOT THAT WAY! WHY ARE YOU BACKING IN TO BATTLE?) . Overhead design is not distracting, 
 and the fog of war is great. 
  
  Excellent game. And check this... Elephant Tank. Wow. Park that puppy and hear the MGs bark! Just 
 park those 88s with clear fields of fire and watch the JSUs burn!
  
  Recommend playing as the Russians on hardest setting..."Can we survive the Blitzkrieg?" Oh, and 
 when your guys surrender I recommend a nice barrage of 120mm mortar.
  
  Hehe. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: harden007
Rating: 9.2
Date: Sep 13, 2004 5:04 am PT
Review:  This game has some good features. The overall gameplay works well and is easy to use, with enough 
 detail envolved to make the game deep. In the game, you play as the commander of either a German 
 or Russian force. On a nicely detailed battlefield, you order and command your squads of men around 
 to capture strategic points on the field. When your men run into the enemy, a fire fight ensues. 
 There are several fun things about this game besides the obvious fun of the gameplay. First off, 
 you can customize your force and units. As you gain promotions, you earn the ability to command 
 more troops. Also, you can choose what units and how many of them will be in your force. I can 
 have a lot of tanks with some infantry squads or a mass of troopers with mortars, ect. Promotions 
 are great and accompany victories and such, while also allowing you to command more troops. Also, 
 you can choose to play a variety of campaigns, the best of which is the Great Campaign, encompassing 
 the entire war. Another great feature is the battle editor. You can set up and create your own 
 battles and campaigns with an easy to use battle creater. However, the game is not with out its 
 problems. I personally dislike the fact that the history of the game cannot be changed. If you 
 play as the Germans and win every battle, you still lose the war and end up with your men, lying 
 dead in the rubble of Berlin. Other nice things include: A charachter as YOU on the battlefield 
 (gains medels and promotions) , casualties are realistic and must be replaced, fun fun gameplay. 
 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
