-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Close Combat: Invasion: Normandy
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/strategy/closecombatinvasionnormandy/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Oct 11, 2000
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7.2
Critic Score: 7.7, 12 Review (s)
User Score: 8.5, 224 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: SSI
Developer: Atomic Games
Genre: Historic Turn-Based...
Date:     Oct 10, 2000 &raquo;  
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
While the gameplay is mostly identical to the preceding games, all the intensity of the Close Combat 
 system remains in Invasion Normandy. 

 The Close Combat series has been in development just about as long as World War II lasted. In that 
 time, the series went from the hedgerows of Normandy to the floodlands of Holland, out to the snowy 
 steppes of Russia, and into the snows of the Ardennes during the Battle of the Bulge. The fifth 
 Close Combat game takes the series back to where it started: in Normandy during Operation Overlord 
 - the D-Day invasion. However, Close Combat: Invasion Normandy isn't actually billed as Close Combat 
 5. It's very similar to its predecessors, and longtime fans of the series might just as easily 
 mistake its contents for those of an expansion pack to the existing games. Then again, because 
 the gameplay is mostly identical to the preceding games, all the intensity of the Close Combat 
 system remains in Invasion Normandy - and it's this hallmark of the system that will bring players 
 back for yet another round of real-time World War II combat.   

  The basic Close Combat system is notable for its attempts to portray the effects of morale on soldiers 
 in battle. The game is played in real time, and you issue orders using a conventional mouse-driven 
 interface, with the caveat that your units may simply refuse to do what you tell them if your orders 
 would lead them to their destruction. Units that take excessive casualties (or become isolated 
 or are simply inexperienced) will bolt for the rear, often leaving your lines in disarray. It's 
 this depiction of the human element in warfare that makes the Close Combat series so interesting, 
 and Invasion Normandy is no exception.   

  The first three Close Combat games offered linear campaigns, while Invasion Normandy's predecessor, 
 Battle of the Bulge, introduced a strategic layer to the tactical combat. This changed the game 
 from just a series of individual encounters to one where you had to manage a strategic overview 
 and account for things like maintaining supply lines and keeping your units from getting cut off. 
 Close Combat: Invasion Normandy doesn't change this in any fundamental way but does slightly alter 
 the way in which you choose your forces for an upcoming battle. In the previous game, battle groups 
 (the grouping of up to 15 individual units) were fixed. In Invasion Normandy, there is a force 
 pool for each battle group from which you can select which units will fight in a particular battle. 
 This allows for much more flexibility than in the previous system.   

  One of the most glaring flaws in Close Combat: Battle of the Bulge was the poor artificial intelligence 
 for vehicles. Tanks were often completely incapable of carrying out simple movement orders or of 
 finding their way from one side of an obstacle to another without excessive micromanagement. A 
 subsequent patch corrected some of the most egregious behaviors, but the tank pathfinding remained 
 problematic. Unfortunately, it seems that Close Combat: Invasion Normandy hasn't improved the pathfinding 
 any further, as tanks in the game will still become hopelessly confused by simple move orders. 
 A tank will often just move back and forth over short distances while turning from side to side, 
 unsure which flank to present to a potential enemy. At worst, this can paralyze your vehicles and 
 prevent you from extricating them from dangerous situations, or it can delay crucial reinforcements 
 while the tanks dillydally in another part of the battle.    

 However, these problems had a bigger impact on gameplay in the previous game. Despite the many similarities 
 and mostly cosmetic differences between Close Combat: Invasion Normandy and Close Combat: Battle 
 of the Bulge, the gameplay is actually somewhat different. Battle of the Bulge involved a lot of 
 armor and vehicles; yet while it wasn't as focused on armored vehicles as its predecessor, Close 
 Combat III: The Russian Front, the combination of vehicles and restricted terrain accentuated the 
 poor pathfinding and made the whole game seem rather disjointed. Therefore, the fact that there 
 are fewer vehicles in Close Combat: Invasion Normandy inherently shifts the focus to the infantry, 
 which happens to be the Close Combat system's strong point.   

  While this might sound a lot like the original Close Combat - especially since the location is 
 basically the same - the gameplay has been greatly improved since then and seems much more dynamic 
 than it used to. Much of this is due to the vehicles and varied terrain, but it's also because 
 the strategic component allows for choices that simply didn't exist in the previous linear campaigns. 
 However, the flexibility of the campaigns is undermined by the fact that the strategic element 
 is still rather primitive and doesn't allow for basic things like entering a map with forces coming 
 from multiple directions or even having multiple battle groups per map. These types of additions 
 to the strategic layer would have gone a long way toward improving the game.   

  Multiplayer Close Combat gives you the chance to fight a human commander instead of the computer, 
 and it's here that the Close Combat series really comes into its own. The game plays smoothly and 
 is quite stable even when both players are on 56K connections. In fact, the multiplayer mode is 
 probably the best part of Close Combat: Invasion Normandy, and it helps make up for the fact that 
 the computer opponent in the single-player mode tends to be passive and not particularly smart. 
 Single-player scenarios often have the computer opponent needlessly exposing his troops or simply 
 charging across open space in the face of murderous fire. The computer is much better on defense, 
 but the troops still tend to be predictable and make little attempt to stay out of the line of 
 fire or to flank you.   

  There are a few new twists to the game: Because it portrays an invasion, Invasion Normandy includes 
 artillery support from naval vessels. There are also paratroops in the game that start behind enemy 
 lines and have to link up with friendly troops before they run out of supplies. You'll also have 
 the opportunity to make beach landings as in Saving Private Ryan. But these are minor additions 
 and are no more than what you'd otherwise expect to find in a low-priced expansion pack.   

  Close Combat: Invasion Normandy isn't likely to surprise anyone. All the old elements remain, 
 the graphics are basically unchanged, and while the venue may have moved, it still seems very familiar. 
 Nevertheless, because Invasion Normandy incorporates the combined improvements of the previous 
 games and shifts the emphasis back to the infantry - where it belongs - the latest in the Close 
 Combat line seems like more than just a rehashed version of Close Combat: Battle of the Bulge. 
 Granted, it doesn't seem like much more than that, so those players who expect a serious improvement 
 in the new Close Combat game will be disappointed. But for those who haven't yet played a Close 
 Combat game, or for veterans looking for new maps and scenarios for this outstanding series, then 
 Close Combat: Invasion Normandy provides plenty of new challenges.    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (7 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: HTO_F-Fido
Rating: 10
Date: May 23, 2008 2:38 pm PT
Review:  When I first tried the demo of this game, I wasn't expecting much, especially when it only had 
 single battle scenarios and a pretty weak AI. This assumption was strengthened when I saw it's 
 price on Ebay for only $5.00, which is still the current price. I bought it, I don't know why I 
 did but I did it. I installed it, then I started playing a campaign.
  When I did this, I noticed that the game had so many aspects that I didn't realize before. One 
 was the strategic map. It modeled air, mortar, naval support, movement, supply, speed, and many 
 other values so accurately that I had to check up on the game's online play, which didn't work.
 
  That was when I decided to go online and find a community website. I found closecombatseries. net 
 and I realized that the community was still bustling after 12 years! I then found one of the greatest 
 things about the game, it's modability.
  There were so many mods to choose from. Battles from Kharkov, to Stalingrad (one for all three 
 stages of the battle) , to the British invasion of Gold, Juno, and Sword beaches, to the Battle 
 of Berlin, and the Finnish Winter War, and many more unmentioned. Then I decided that I was determined 
 to play online. I went on Gamespy and realized that it worked.
  Online play is the best part of this game. There is nothing better than playing a long campaign 
 with your friends on an otherwise boring day. It was like playing chess as the human player made 
 you feel as though you were in the WWII experience... it almost made me cry. 
  The graphics were basically perfect for their time and still look good to me today. the sounds 
 were great as a huge firefight almost made you sit on the edge of your seat, it made your mind 
 start racing, almost a feel of adrenaline sweeps over your nervous system as you make the final 
 push to cut off your enemy.
  Overall, this game made, and still makes me a very happy person for trying something new. It is 
 made like a tactical version of Hearts of Iron and really is a must buy, especially for the price, 
 and the friends you make in the process. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Suker21_2001
Rating: 8.1
Date: Dec 20, 2006 11:35 am PT
Review:  I gave this game at a score of 8.1, I'm a Chinese player. But I think the Machine Gunners were made 
 too strong to realism. Machine Gunners can shoot down one man even out of 100 hundred meters at 
 one time and can continue this luck very easily, but Snipers were weaker than Machine Gunners here, always 
 waste bullets, The shooting average of a Sniper is unsatisfied and therefore Snipers are less useful 
 than Machine Gunners in the game. And other aspects I feel not comfortable is that when I surround 
 one enemy troop or I get two positions at both sides of enemy, but I can't commence assault one 
 after another, I've gotta go one by one. So what's the strategic strategy? This game is challenging 
 but not difficult to me. OK, in a word, worth playing it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ShibbyMan666
Rating: 7.7
Date: Dec 2, 2005 6:19 am PT
Review:  Close Combat V invasion normandy, I saw it on a shelf in the cheap games section in my local store. 
 Thought I'll give it a go being a fan of WW2 games. After playing it for about an hour I had totally 
 lost track to time. It is fairly addictive and offers some challenge when facing stronger foes. 
 
  It is incredibly fun exterminating enemy soldiers with a wall of tanks. The gameplay is good but 
 it could have been better. The AI is'nt incredibly good too. Scenario your tank is on a striaght 
 road. you tell it to move about 30 meters forward, it will start spinning round and possiblt go 
 the opposite direction taking a good 20 minutes to do a 30 second job! When your in a big battle 
 that can be very annoying especially when needing armoured support!
  Other than that it is a fun little game, its easy to play and great if you have alot of free time. 
 Would'nt really reccomend this game to many but if you enjoy games like this it wont disappoint. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Invisiblejim
Rating: 8.8
Date: Nov 11, 2005 4:48 pm PT
Review:  This game is in the archives and there have been times that I have gone back to play this game, 
 even shown me mates this with a smile cause they just haven't seen it.
  
  Being an stragey wargamer I was introduced to this game many moons ago. Its still pretty good now...
 
  
  The graphics introduction wise are fairly basic, you can't zoom in from the overtop view of the 
 battlefield like you can these days, and yet there doesn't really seem a need to.
  
  You'll be too bust select troops to move forward in various stances and trying to blow the poop 
 out of the enemy with your tanks whilst trying to stop them getting knocking out in the progress.
 
  
  The sounds are raw for each type of troop but that is part of the charm for this old type of game... believe 
 me it was a marvel for back in the day.
  
  The only thing which it doesn't have is experience rankings for troops which have made it through 
 various battles, but it fairly satisfing for seeing the list of heroes and medals for those that 
 did make it and even the list of those from the enemy which didnt. A minutes silence for fallen 
 comrades is certainly there after a battle.
  
  A nice little game which can be played for 1/2hour when bored of all the fancy stuff before you 
 go to bed. What can be better. In a bargain bucket near you, remembered but not forgotten. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: looksofat
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 6, 2004 2:33 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay: I remember the day i buyed this game. a normal day it was. When i came home i started 
 my computer, put the cd in and installed the game. The first thing i remember is that i picked 
 a random scenario and started playing. OMG, there were tanks firing at me and mg42s... Instantly 
 this was my favourite game. You have a lot of maps, some operations and campaigns. You have 15 
 units available for each battle. Enough. Could be more... The force pool is big, tanks and everything. 
 The terrain is full of hedgerows which are good defensive positions. If the AI was a little more 
 smart it could make this game difficult. If you dislike games in which infantry has a secondary 
 role this is the game for you. Tanks can be easily destroyed by bazookas and panzerschreks. Gameplay 
 - 10
  
  Graphics: Very good if not perfect. The level of detail is very good. Soldiers have guns that can 
 actually be seen on the map - also their equipment (and munition) can be recognised by a cute window. 
 Graphics - 10
  
  Sound: The amount of sound is unbeleviable. Every weapon has its sound, and when you hear 200 soldiers 
 shooting its... its just... so beautiful that you could cry. ;=) Sound - 10
  
  Value: Look at gameplay. Value - 10
  
  Tilt - 10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jackyle
Rating: 9.2
Date: Nov 6, 2004 12:46 am PT
Review:  The Close Combat series has always been a favorite of mine. I first got hooked on Close Combat 
 III The Russian Front and continued from there.
  
  When Close Combat Invasion Normandy came out I was not thrilled. There were bugs, and it just did 
 not feel right. Well the patch fixed that up and the game has become a classic. It's a great single 
 player, and multi player game. There are so many different ways to play the game that it has endless 
 replay ability.
  
  Additionally there are many great mods that you can find on the Internet that completely makeover 
 the game. I highly suggest this title to anyonewho like history, RTS games, or for that matter 
 anyone.
  
  If you can still find this game buy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rattlesnake_8
Rating: 9.8
Date: Oct 10, 2004 11:46 am PT
Review:  .. in real-time. The amount of detail in this game is huge. Each soldier has their own weapon, ammo, 
 morale, name etc. If a squad is slaughtered then they could surrender if they feel they have no 
 alternative. Or they could get scared and fall back. If some of your troops run out of ammo, you 
 can send them near some dead bodies and they'll scavenge and pick up other weapons and ammo. You 
 get a large variety of units ranging from infantry and tanks to artillery and halftracks. This 
 is one game that all RTS fans should own. The there are lot of great mods/total conversions for 
 the game as well. If your interested in WWII or just like good strategy games, this is one game 
 not to miss. It's old, but still better than a lot of games out there. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
