-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Close Quarters Conflict
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/action/closequartersconflict/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Visuals aren't terrible.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Single-player mode is shallow and short.
 deficient artificial intelligence.
 one-note multiplayer.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Feb 15, 2007
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 4.1
Critic Score: 4.1, 5.4 Review (s)
User Score: 5.4, 82 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Groove Games
Genre: Modern First-Person...
Date:     Jan 22, 2007
ESRB: Mature

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
You've already got at least a couple of shooters on your hard drive far better than this one.

  Groove Games apparently doesn't think a whole lot about Close Quarters Conflict. The first-person 
 shooter hit stores almost a month ago, but the publisher still hasn't bothered to do anything with 
 the official Web site aside from posting placeholder art. Needless to say, this isn't a good sign. 
 If a game is an afterthought to its publisher, it's pretty safe to say that the buying public shouldn't 
 spend much time thinking about it either.  

          Dieter won't be dancing on Sprockets anymore.     

  Actually, you've already given 
 CQC about as much thought as it deserves just by reading the above paragraph. While largely half-decent 
 graphics and level design elevate it a bit above bargain-bin dreck, the single-player mode is barely 
 there and the multiplayer mode is repetitive and frustrating. Every single feature of this game 
 has been bettered by at least a couple of dozen shooters released over the past year or so, which 
 means that there are no pressing reasons to entertain notions of playing this one, save midwinter 
 ennui.  

  CQC's biggest failing is that it isn't a complete game. Direct Action Games didn't set out to make 
 a full-featured shooter with solo and multiplayer modes of play as much as it just whipped up a 
 bunch of competent, if generic, shooter levels and lets you have at it. Single-player mode is just 
 a collection of training missions where you're usually plopped down in a warehouse, a factory, 
 or a warehouse-factory of some sort and instructed to kill enemies in different ways. There is 
 some semblance of a plot about competing mercenary groups replacing armies in the near future, 
 but it's never developed or referred to beyond the brief mission preambles.  

  At any rate, no story is needed. You start off clearing levels by killing baddies with the game's 
 standard collection of shooter weaponry. Then you move on to more focused goals and kill enemies 
 with special weapons like grenades, perform stealth kills, handle mission objectives, and so on. 
 However, there is no depth to any of these missions, which consist of clearing levels by ripping 
 around and blasting everything that moves on a clock. Some levels can be blazed through in no more 
 than a couple of minutes, and even the addition of special objectives doesn't slow you down. Stealth 
 kills just mean that you have to murder people with a silenced pistol or a knife instead of a submachine 
 gun or assault rifle. And missions with objectives involve going to numbered locations on the map 
 and killing everyone that you encounter.  

  There are some challenges presented by the solo missions, although they're all the result of bad 
 design. Enemy artificial intelligence and movement are atrocious. You can frequently rake foes 
 with automatic weapon fire without their uttering a peep of protest. Even when they do respond, 
 they often pause in the midst of shooting at you, as if to let you catch up in a "how many rounds 
 have you fired?" competition. Enemies make no attempt to take cover either. In firefights, they 
 stand stock-still and blaze away or creep forward in a rifle-raised "Be wery quiet -- I am hunting 
 wabbits!" Elmer Fudd pose until somebody falls down. Finally, you can win every battle with ease 
 by simply retreating around the nearest corner and waiting for enemies to offer themselves up for 
 slaughter. The only hurdle to mowing down all comers with ease is a wildly overstated recoil effect 
 that sees even your pistol kick back like a shotgun. It feels more like you're wrangling with a 
 runaway fire hose than firing weapons here.  

  Audio effects are so muted that the sound is more akin to a knitting tournament than gunfights 
 between mercenaries. Directional audio effects are great to determine where bullets are coming 
 from, but you can never hear enemy movement or dialogue. So instead of stalking foes, you're better 
 off just running around levels until someone takes a shot at you. Of all the other effects, none 
 are remarkable aside from the odd choke sound that you make every time you're shot. However, this 
 isn't a good "remarkable" because this noise sounds more like a choke than it does a gasp of pain 
 from a bullet impact.  

          Believe it or not, these are stealth kills.     

  Multiplayer is an improvement over all of the above because you don't have to deal with any of 
 the AI issues. But even here, CQC doesn't offer anything intriguing. All game types are standard 
 for the genre, with the usual variations on deathmatch, capture the flag, and last man standing. 
 Character classes include yawn-worthy selections that follow the typical soldier-sniper-medic template. 
 But the maps look pretty good and feature a fair bit of detail. There is also a nice mix of settings, 
 from wintry Siberian hills to war-torn urban landscapes. However, most of the players seem to be 
 congregating on the cramped industrial/office maps where the mayhem is so fast-paced that thinking 
 tactically is a waste of time. Games here are kind of catchy but rather frustrating because they 
 are so frenetic. At least there are a fair number of people playing the game online, so you can 
 get into a game pretty easily.  

  Close Quarters Conflict is unnecessary. There isn't anything here that isn't improved upon by many 
 competitors, one or two of which you've almost certainly got on your hard drive.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (3 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: aryoshi
Rating: 5.6
Date: Jul 5, 2007 5:49 am PT
Review:  It is a pretty cheap game, and it's for a good reason. Single player mode, alone, which is named 
 training is extremely difficult even on the easiest settings on the first level. After days of 
 trying, I finally got through the first few levels. It takes forever to kill someone with any weapon, 
 and that gives them time to kill you quicker, which usually is what happens.
  
  As far as the online mode, hardly anyone plays, there's only one working server usually that has 
 people in it instead of a bot keeping it up, and it's just pure difficult. All of the guns are 
 useless, you can't hide anywhere to use the sniper rifle, it's way too hard. Once you get into 
 it though, it isn't too bad, it's tolerable. I admit I've been up several hours at nights playing 
 this, and having a slightly good time. If you're an extreme FPS fan, go for it. If not and you 
 only like the bigger titles, don't bother. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Aminal_basic
Rating: 4
Date: Apr 4, 2007 6:31 pm PT
Review:  Groove games just didn't get it right when they put this game out. It doesn't play well at all. 
 I had more slowdowns and crashes then I did time to play. The scripting for this game reminds me 
 of games that I played 15 years ago. Most of the time it was out of place and just didn't fit the 
 situation.
  The graphics were great , 12 years ago, but not in todays games. It looks like they rushed this 
 out to the market before they tested it, It just has too many flaws. The soundtrack is scratchy 
 and dull. I ended up turning off my sound all together.
  The Gameplay was to put iy mildly terrible.. It was either almost impossible to get through or 
 too easy. There was no happy mediums. All in all I was very, very dissapointed in this game. I 
 love shooters! So much so that I will play almost any game that says shooter on it despite other 
 reviewers write about it. Many times I have enjoyed a shooter that got really bad reviews. We're 
 all looking for different things in games. Some shooters are just fun to play despite the flaws 
 and graphics. Sadly though this wasn't one of them! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gogoplexiorayo
Rating: 3.6
Date: Mar 8, 2007 10:34 am PT
Review:  Close Quaters Conflict is bad and you will understand it when you first play the game, the intro 
 sounds like it was taken from a bad space game, and it just gets worse and worse after that. There 
 are 8 single player missions in Close Quaters Conflict all of which are uninteresting, the story 
 is also mindless and strange you travel around the globe to get 5 stealth kills, and sometimes 
 kill 5 guys with grenades, the developer just have not worked with the game at all. the game begins 
 pretty hard, but after a while you understand that all you have to do is shoot the enemy a little 
 bit then hide behind a corner and blast him off. The guns are boring to use and you cant even pick 
 up the enemies weapons. so your stuck with the three same weapons all the time, you might find 
 a rocket launcher or two but there terrible, it feels like your shooting with paintball balls. 
 The AI is dissapointing, either they will run after you or they will just stand there waiting to 
 get killed by you, sometimes they even run from you. they dont go for cover either. The names of 
 the guys are also strange names like Dieter, or i owned Dieter is just mindless. The levels are 
 all boring to play, except the last two missions where it can get a little bit fun at times. but 
 unfortunetely these missions are the easiest.
  
  After your done with the dissapointing Single player, you got the Multiplayer but unfortunately 
 there are nobody playing at all. not even a server is online. So your stuck with the 8 boring missions 
 against bots called the Dragon. or Bieter. Graphics are a little better then the gameplay, sometimes 
 the game is looks slightly good but most of the time its medicore. the level design is just disgusting, 
 except for the last mission. The textures looks like it was taken from a bad game from 1996, you 
 can bearly read or understand what is written. The 5 guns that are in the game looks like it was 
 made in 2002. characther animation is cluncky and uninteresting.
  
  The game sounds like it was taken for a C- movie, when you shoot an enemy it makes no sound, the 
 guns bearly makes any sound, its sounds more like paintball shots then a powerful RPG that is being 
 fired. The voice acting is nearly non- exsistent, and the little voice that comes from the actors 
 sounds like it was taken from a bad space game tutorial. The only good thing there is to say that 
 there is some enviromental sounds. The games 8 missions are also very quick, expect to be finished 
 in about 3 and a half hour. And since there no one playing the multiplayer it gets even worse, 
 playing a game with medicore graphics and terrible sound for 3 and a half hour is a bizarre thing 
 to do. 20 dollars for that is insane. luckilly it wasnt 30 or 50. So what are you left with, your 
 left with a 3 and a half hour boring game, with almost not a good thing in it, 2 missions out of 
 8 which is fun is not good enough, if your a die hard shooter fan that must try and buy every shooter 
 then go ahead buy it, but you should think about it, why waste 20 dollars on so little.
  
  But anyway for the rest of us its smart to take your eyes very far from this game, and if you got 
 the game already then uninstall it. There are games like Elder Scrools 4, Medieval 2 Total War 
 and Rainbow Six Vegas. there is so many better games out there that you can enjoy. But now i have 
 to go, i need to uninstall this before my eyes starts bleeding. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
