-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Close Combat: A Bridge Too Far
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/strategy/closecombat2abridgetoofar/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Nov  4, 1997
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 9.1
Critic Score: 9.0, 2 Review (s)
User Score: 8.7, 320 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Microsoft Game Studios
Developer: Atomic Games
Genre: Historic Turn-Based...
Date:     Sep 30, 1997

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Atomic Games has managed to create the ideal sequel: It expands and adds many features while keeping 
 everything that made the first game a joy to play. 

 "The first time we came under fire, the sergeant had to move around and personally tell each man 
 that he was supposed to be firing back." That quote is from an unnamed Marine during the Korean 
 War. Combat in real life is far different from the John Wayne movies of yesteryear. Studies have 
 shown that only 20-30 percent of soldiers in combat actually do something effective. But one would 
 never guess this by most computer wargames or real-time strategy games - especially when you're 
 watching minigunners happily walking under the treads of Soviet tanks in Red Alert. Enter Close 
 Combat: A Bridge Too Far, a tactical real-time World War II wargame with an emphasis on realism. 
 With this follow-up to Close Combat, Atomic Games has managed to create the ideal sequel: It expands 
 and adds many features while keeping everything that made the first game a joy to play.   

 With A Bridge Too Far, the scope of the game has been greatly expanded. While the first game focused 
 on American and German forces fighting in France, the sequel concentrates on the failed Operation 
 Market Garden. Forces now include British and Polish units in addition to the Americans and Germans. 
 There are now more than 30 individual scenarios, along with several operation games (linked scenarios 
 with a specific objective) and campaigns. The operations and campaigns are especially challenging 
 because you must fight at the tactical level while keeping the strategic picture in mind (including 
 supplies and replacements) . You can also create your own scenarios, but you must make do with the 
 prerendered maps for the battlefields.  

 Gameplay is simple but challenging. Ordering a unit to perform a task is as easy as right-clicking 
 on it and choosing from the pop-up menu. Orders include different modes of movement as well as 
 combat options. Unlike most real-time games there is no need to "baby-sit" the units, units will 
 perform the order to the best of their ability. That's where the game really struts its stuff. 
 What sets the Close Combat series apart from all other wargames is that the game models stress 
 and fatigue in each individual soldier. This means that if you order a sniper to charge a tank 
 it's very doubtful that order will be followed. This also means that you must use common sense 
 and real-world tactics if you want to win. While there were some complaints about the morale system 
 in the first Close Combat, units behave as they should. It can be frustrating at times, but there's 
 something to be said for watching the enemy run away when you bring up a flamethrower. If the morale 
 factor is too difficult there are settings so that units always follow your orders, but that takes 
 a great deal away from the game.   

 Graphics are astounding. Watching the game unfold is like hovering a hundred feet over a real battlefield. 
 The maps are gorgeous to the point of almost being photo-realistic. The only detraction is the 
 large yellow numbers on buildings identifying how many stories they are. The inclusion of multistoried 
 buildings - which were lacking in the first Close Combat - adds some new strategic elements: Roofs 
 block visibility into buildings until units actually enter, creating plenty of ambush chances. 
 Unit animation is top-notch: Soldiers crawl, crouch, sprint, and ready their weapons. Zoom in close 
 enough and you can make out individual hatches on tanks. Sound effects are also first-class. Battles 
 begin with an eerie silence punctuated by a bird chirping or a cow mooing and then quickly break 
 into a cacophony of screaming and gunfire, and each weapon has its own sound effect. In addition, 
 voices are accented properly for the countries and there's a range of different voices within each 
 group. The online help even includes all the sound files so you can learn to aurally identify what 
 is going on.  

 ABTF is a highly polished game of near perfection. There are a few quibbles. The maps, while nice 
 looking, aren't dynamic, which means damage to structures tends to look rather unrealistic. Prisoners 
 follow units around like lost puppy dogs, often getting in the middle of a firefight (though they 
 don't take damage) . The only gameplay gripe is that some scenarios are extremely tough for one 
 side. Of course this does breed the "One more time and I know I'll win" attitude that keeps the 
 gamer glued to the computer.   

 One thing that must be emphasized is that ABTF is not a real-time game with historical elements 
 (like Age of Empires) but a historical wargame with real-time gameplay. It may not be everyone's 
 cup of tea, but anyone the least bit interested in a game that stresses realism and real-world 
 tactics, while retaining the fun factor, will find great pleasure in A Bridge Too Far.    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (9 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Volodnikov9
Rating: 8.8
Date: Feb 20, 2007 2:25 pm PT
Review:  Like the movie based on the same name, A Bridge Too Far takes place in Holland during October 1944 
 as part of Operation Market Garden. The Allies, hoping to end the war by the end of the year, landed 
 American, British, and Polish paratroops at key bridges in Eindhoven and Arnhem, while landing 
 other troops at Son and Oosterbeek. While they secured the bridges, the British XXX Corps was to 
 run the gauntlet and link up with Allied troops at the bridges.
  
  In Close Combat II, you can take control of various squads and armored vehicles during this part 
 of the war. Set on different 2D maps, your objective is to secure most of the victory points on 
 the map, ending in a victory.. or loss. You are given many options on which types of infantry and 
 vehicles to choose from. Not only are there your standard rifle platoons, but SMG squads, bazooka 
 and MG teams, flamethrowers, and so on. The same applies to vehicles, which include MG halftracks, 
 light to heavy tanks, and armoured cars. Each of these are historical and have the appropriate 
 graphic. What is awesome however, is that you can play as the Germans, getting a taste of what 
 it's like on the Axis side.
  
  Close Combat comes with a variety of campaigns. You can play a short campaign taking place in one 
 specific sector, or you can play the Grand Campaign, starting from the beginning of Operation Market 
 Garden to the end. If you are good, the campaign will take you a couple of hours, but if you set 
 the settings to the most realistic possible, then you will be in for a satisfying experience.
 
  
  Graphically, Close Combat II fares pretty well for it's time. The environments are done splendidly 
 and after fighting for a few minutes, the land will have taken its toll. The units are to scale, 
 so infantry arent as big as tanks. Soundwise, it is pretty good though quality could have been 
 better. Weapons have their own sounds and you'll know when your men are dying.
  
  Overall, Close Combat II may be dated, but it's still a great game. However, if you are purchasing 
 a Close Combat game for the heck of playing it, I'd recommend Close Combat III or IV, as they are 
 much improved over a Bridge Too Far. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mentat76
Rating: 9.2
Date: Dec 20, 2006 5:07 am PT
Review:  extremely well balanced action and reality is at the top of the line.
  
  While other game companies copied Dune2 style RTS games again and again, first time in game history 
 an RTS game offers different style of play other than resorce collecting and building units than 
 selecting all following a mass assault. Realism is Amazing! Infantry is not selected and issued 
 orders by individuals. They are commanded as squads. you dont define where to take position one 
 by one, you just order to deploy an area, they will find the most suitable position themselves.
 
  
  No energy bars on top of units. If they are hit, they are gone. Tanks does have a single shot life 
 as well as infantry, You will see how men are pinned down upon a heavy machine gun fire. You will 
 see how hard to command men as they will not do whatever you want. You cant simply send them to 
 die as they will not obey.
  
  Range is important, you will realize the closer your men are the better they shoot and actually 
 hit.
  
  you will learn the characteristics of weapons, squads, tanks, weaknesses and or strengths of your 
 units as well as enemy's.
  
  an instant classic brought us all a new era is RTS gaming. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Franco_atirador
Rating: 9.3
Date: Oct 23, 2006 5:37 pm PT
Review:  Well to begin ... i played this game a very long time a go and still play it once in while.... when 
 you get stuck to the CC series ..... its worse then Crack ... youll get adicted .... Its a spectacular 
 game. You must also bear in mind that this game is old so dont rate it by modern standarts..... i 
 have to say that this game is historically very acuratte .... with lost and lost of information 
 about the history of Market garden .... also it can be learned very quickly ... but to master it 
 its another thing, because this game simulates the closest you can get to real life combat tatics 
 ,sometimes even with the best of plans your tatic and strategy can go awfully wrong .... just like 
 in real life. Soldiers surrender..... soldiers get fanatical.... sodiers take cover ...... cowardice 
 and bravery.... its all in there .... plus a very realistic treatment of balistics and vehicles.
 
  All-in-all , its just great .no doubts fellows... if you want harcore RTS ... man ... youve been 
 missing the best. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: OJ99
Rating: 9.3
Date: May 25, 2006 1:02 pm PT
Review:  For me CCII: ABTF is unquestionably the best in the series and the best RTS of its and many other 
 days. It was groundbreaking, immersive and endlessly replayable. Your average young RTSer of today 
 will proudly wave the Total War and Command and Conquor flags whilst pointing mockingly at the 
 2D graphics. While I am a big TW fan myself, the beauty of CC was that it simply didn't need 3D, 
 in its day a third dimention meant more complicated. Atomic concentrated on near photorealistic 
 2D, then spend the rest of their time creating the perfect gaming interface easy to learn in minutes. 
 It takes three clicks to issue an order, then you leave your unit to get on with it, which they 
 do damn well thanks to brilliant AI. For me the AI is the crowning glory of this game, not only 
 does it model the morale of your own and enemy soldiers very accurately (I believe the first game 
 to do so) , its so good that morale becomes a weapon, while a machine gun team is as happy as larry 
 sitting in a three story building, send a tank shell through the roof and they'll hit the deck 
 and stay there, if they don't run off. If a tank gets immobilised, but can still fire its gun, 
 thats small comfort to the crew, who will likely bug out rather than remain sitting ducks, a very 
 sensible, and above all realistic reaction. Realism is what CC is about; lines of site mean you 
 can walk within feet of men who then blast you with grenades before you know where they are, troops 
 run out of ammo, and there are no health bars. You can send a thousand rilfe bullets at a tank 
 and achieve nothing, which is how it should be, that tank will just sit and blow your men to hell 
 while you scramble around trying to find someone who's got a Panzerfaust left. This realism never 
 overwhelms though, mearly adds the 'third dimention' that flag waving kid was on about earlier. 
 Not only that, the AI adapts! Pin down a counterattack with machine guns once and the next time 
 the computer will make a decent attempt to pin them down and/or flank them. This lends to a great 
 replayability factor.
  Sound is excellent, each weapon makes its own noise and radio chat from your men is in appropriate 
 language (translations provided) , the lull at the beginning with mooing and birdsong is shattered 
 buy the 'bom' of a mortar and the splinter of rifle fire, rising to a crescendo and drift off again 
 as you mob up the broken enemy. Maps are a good size, room to maneuveor without losing track of 
 your units.
  Criticisms? Not many, it can sometimes get frustrating trying to find that last sniper so you can 
 'rout all enemy' but this can build its own tension, especially if you know there's a Tiger tank 
 out there somewhere...
  If you like RTS with a little more realism, get this, its only a couple of quid now, if you hate 
 RTS you might buy this as a way to change your mind. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CrackpotGANJ
Rating: 5.2
Date: Mar 24, 2006 3:11 pm PT
Review:  First of all i don't even understand why this game was rated so high. Next this game is stupid 
 exspecially the AI and the dudes that your trying to control. You tell them to move and then they 
 have to take a huge tour and it takes them like a freakin hour just to get there. Also the AI is 
 so stupid that you could be standing right in front of them and sometimes they wont even do anything 
 just sit there and jack off. Also the campaign is so short that it took me about 3 hours to beat 
 the game way the hell to short. Never by this game luckly i didn't and i burnt it of one of my 
 friends because i wanted to beat it to see if it got any better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dag204
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 21, 2006 6:11 pm PT
Review:  there is an endless amount of ww2 games out there but this one stands out as one of the greats. 
 the thing i loved about this game was the way it kept me playing. the interface was great and the 
 way the battle was presented. the mission briefings were great and made me feel like i was about 
 to actually go to war, it made me giggle in nerdiness. i owned a civil war game much like this 
 and the two kept me occupied. this review in a sense is a duel review for a bridge too far and 
 that civil war game by sid myers they were very similar but they were great. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GamingDisgrace
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jan 11, 2006 2:22 pm PT
Review:  Do you remember this game? If you don't, or simply never heard of it, then be scolded for your 
 ignorance. CC, even when I was a little kid, (I was only 7 when this game released! XP) CC was 
 a game that I could plug away on for hours and hours, even if it was just one map. I could call 
 in all of my favorite kinds of infantry and armor, and go to town. (Literally.) CC is set up in 
 many theaters, ranging across WW2. Many maps create new challenges to endure and conquer. The setting 
 of your battle can anyhwhere from a far-out country-side with almost no buildings or cover to a 
 cramped city blown out by the ravages of battle. CC captivated me, and I was glad to fall upon 
 it for the first time in a great many years. (3, maybe 4?) I popped in my CD, laughed at how easily 
 I dl'ed it, and started to plug away just all those years ago.
  
  Graphically, the game HAS aged, but you could still hold it up against RTS's of our time. I choose 
 to compare it against Axis and Allies, an RTS I picke up last year, hoping to relive the old glory 
 days of RTS'ing. The 3D models were an impressive touch to an otherwise horrible game, but I looked 
 at CC today, and thought, "Heck, it still holds up, even after all of these years." The real threshold 
 for graphics in an RTS game like Close Combat never really went much farther then they did when 
 CC first came out. RTS's have been pushed to the edge, and it seems that they will age and fade 
 away, barring a miracle from another RTS game to release and awe us again. The likelihood of that? 
 Slim, even though Warhammer is an impressive game.
  
  Gameplay? Methodical, and not bogged down, unlike the aforementioned A&A. In most battles, you 
 will most likely NOT out-muscle an enemy. Ambushes and their own supply of forces prevent you from 
 doing that often, if at all. You will need to flank your enemy, keep your boys on the frontlines 
 in good spirits, and separately formulate plans to take out your enemy. Victory is often decided 
 by either one of two factors: 
  
  1. You eliminate the enemy.
  
  2. You take control of designated and strategic spots on the map, and agree to a cease-fire with 
 the opposing AI commander.
  
  Often times, you'll win minor victories, advancing and resupplying your boys, playing the same 
 map, winning in your advnace through the real-world operations provided to you, like Operation 
 Market Garden, an entire campaign in 1944 in which the American paratroopers secured essential 
 bridges in Holland so that Amreicans could use the route to attack Germany. While the actual operation 
 was made famous for "The Bridge Too Far", in Arnhem, Holland, you can control the fate of these 
 soldiers. Make it a good one.
  
  Sounds are frightening is this game. They are good, but frightening. Flamethrower troops torch 
 men to their shrieking deaths, and men can be driven into madness while still on the battlefield. 
 Tanks roll over and rule whatever their treads can handle, bullets still fly with a crisp ring, 
 and even though that's about all that CC offered, that's all it needed to do. It did so well, and 
 that's all that really needed to mentioned. Case closed.
  
  CC was and is a landmark in games, and I'm glad Gamespot still has the old cover art and reviews 
 in place: CC deserves it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nai205
Rating: 9.2
Date: Dec 28, 2005 1:01 pm PT
Review:  Close Combat II: ABTF is definitely a classic game that anyone even remotely interested in strategy 
 games should own. Even though it shows its age, the gameplay is still sound, the AI is challenging, 
 and the entire experience is very enjoyable.
  Take command of the Germans or Allies and duke it out toward the "Bridge Too Far" of old-time movie 
 fame. This was the first Close Combat game to involve any strategic decisions like choosing your 
 units or sending in reinforcements. 
  No, this game isn't as fancy as the latest strategy games, but it is the granddaddy of them all! 
 If you haven't played this game yet, you can probably still find it in some bargain bins at your 
 local game store; don't hesitate to pick it up, you won't regret it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Arob_2006
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 29, 2005 4:39 am PT
Review:  I gave ten dollars for this game at a local walmart. I collect war games so I couldnt pass this 
 one up. Since the purchase of this game I have encountered three other games in a series of world 
 war two games. I played the game for hours on end. My favorite part of the game is that you can 
 choose which side to fight for. I personally prefer the underdog germans. I never can beat the 
 game with them for some reason I probably have the difficulty level set to high, but that is me 
 I like a challenge. Overall a great game, good graphics, sound, and gameplay. I give this game 
 a nine. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
