-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Close Combat: First to Fight
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/action/closecombatfirsttofight/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Indoor and outdoor environments.
 AI teammates are generally proficient.
 Co-op play available for four players.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 AI is inconsistent at times, especially in close combat.
 Lack of general polish in presentation and gameplay.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Apr 25, 2005
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7.3
Critic Score: 6.9, 22 Review (s)
User Score: 7.5, 580 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: 2K Games
Developer: Destineer
Genre: Modern Tactical Shooter
Date:     Apr 18, 2005
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Close Combat is a competent squad-based shooter that offers a fun cooperative mode, and an artificial 
 intelligence that is at times quite impressive and at other times completely boneheaded. 

  Recent years have seen a growing relationship between the United States military and the video 
 game industry. Most of the attention has been focused on games developed in conjunction with the 
 US Army. Games like America's Army and Full Spectrum Warrior have been created specifically to 
 meet the needs of that branch of the military. Now the United States Marines are getting into the 
 act, with Close Combat: First to Fight. Though it hasn't received any official blessing or endorsement 
 from the US Marine Corps, Close Combat was developed with the help of dozens of real-life Marines 
 fresh from recent combat duty in the Middle East. The game is a competent squad-based shooter that 
 offers a fun cooperative mode and an artificial intelligence that is at times quite impressive 
 and at other times completely boneheaded.  

          Close Combat: First to Fight takes place in near-future Beirut.     

  Close Combat's 
 storyline revolves around unrest in the Lebanese city of Beirut. Insurgents have started a rebellion 
 in the war-torn city, and the involvement of military forces from neighboring Arab nations has 
 complicated matters. In response, the United States sends in a Marine expeditionary unit as part 
 of a United Nations peacekeeping corps. You play the role of a Marine lance corporal in charge 
 of a four-man fireteam, and you'll lead missions in and around the city of Beirut. The game's six 
 missions are subdivided into several levels, which are further subdivided into checkpoints that 
 should collectively take most players around 10 hours or so to complete. The objectives of each 
 mission range from standard search-and-destroy patrols, to hostage rescue, to the elimination or 
 capture of so-called "high-value targets." These high-value targets are usually high-ranking enemy 
 officers or generals.  

  As the leader of a fireteam, you can command your men to do specific things, such as move to an 
 area, cover specific flanks or doors, or lay down suppressing fire on a target. The action tends 
 to move a lot faster in Close Combat than in similar games like Brothers in Arms, though. What's 
 more, enemies don't gain specific bonuses while hiding behind cover. So while it is theoretically 
 possible to do the fix-and-flank maneuver that you may have learned in other games, it is generally 
 unnecessary and risky. You can simply peek out from behind cover, zoom in with your M16, and pick 
 off enemies with pinpoint accuracy. The controls in the PC version of the game are a bit better 
 than those in the Xbox version, primarily because peeking out from behind cover is easier on the 
 PC. There are other special commands you can give your teammates when you find yourself inside 
 of buildings. Like in SWAT 4, you can order your troops to stack up at a door and then either charge 
 in or toss a grenade in first before charging in to clear the room. These room-takedown maneuvers 
 are extremely effective, but for some reason, the option to execute them isn't available to you 
 on many interior doors. As fireteam leader, you also have the ability to radio for help from Marine 
 sniper teams, mortar crews, and Cobra gunships. If you run into a machine-gun nest or armored vehicle, 
 for example, you don't have to try to use a frontal assault or grenades to take it out. Simply 
 radio in for help, and you'll have fire support on the hard target in no time.  

          The game was developed with the advice of battle-hardened Marines.     

  The fact that 
 the missions transition back and forth between indoor and outdoor areas is one of the best aspects 
 of Close Combat. You can find yourself fighting in claustrophobic room-to-room combat within the 
 bowels of an apartment complex and then suddenly find yourself out on the streets of Beirut trying 
 to take stock of threats from multiple angles and varying elevations. Given that you or any of 
 your teammates can die from just a couple of shots, this can present quite a challenge. Thankfully, 
 your four-man team is generally intelligent about keeping a 360-degree watch around them. From 
 time to time, enemies will actually flank you or sneak up behind you, but your teammates are usually 
 alert enough to neutralize threats coming from the rear or the flanks. Your teammates are generally 
 very accurate shots as well, and in most situations you can count on them to more than pull their 
 weight when it comes to identifying and neutralizing enemy targets. Direct them behind obvious 
 cover such as a burned-out car, steel drums, or a corner, and they'll even stack up behind that 
 cover intelligently. At certain times they're so good that it can feel as though you're just along 
 for the ride as you're driving your fireteam around to kill stuff.  

  Your AI teammates aren't always such efficient and lethal killing machines, though. All too often 
 they'll exhibit some completely idiotic behavior that can cause the team to get wiped out, ending 
 the mission (you'll fail the mission if you die or if two members of your fireteam die or become 
 incapacitated) . This usually occurs in close-quarters situations where only a few feet separate 
 your men and newly discovered enemies. If you order your men into a room through an open doorway, 
 for example, they tend to become disoriented once they reach the center and have trouble targeting 
 enemies they may discover inside. The computer AI also exhibits bouts of idiocy and can be taken 
 advantage of in some situations. One example of this is how the enemy AI handles mounted weapons. 
 Generally if you snipe a machine gunner off his weapon, a nearby enemy will take up his position. 
 In many cases, you can use this scripted behavior to cheaply thin out enemy resistance. As you 
 snipe the enemy over and over again off a machine gun, they'll keep on running, like lemmings, 
 to their inevitable death.  

  While it offers a decent single-player experience, Close Combat is probably a better game when 
 played in its multiplayer mode. The game offers standard team deathmatch for up to eight players. 
 This mode, as you can imagine, is fairly pedestrian, and the eight-man limitation makes Close Combat 
 less attractive than most other PC shooters, which can support many more players. The cooperative 
 mode, playable for up to four players, is the better multiplayer option. You can play any of the 
 single-player levels by themselves or play through the entire campaign cooperatively if you choose. 
 Close Combat is a fun challenge, and its relatively simple nature makes it ideal for co-op play. 

          The graphics in the game are decent, but not particularly noteworthy.     

  Close Combat's presentation is more utilitarian than it is flashy. As mentioned before, it's nice 
 having both indoor and outdoor environments to fight through, although there isn't much interactivity. 
 Character models exhibit acceptable detail, though after a few missions, the opponents you shoot 
 start to look fairly repetitive. The animation of your teammates is good while they're creeping 
 around, but their running animation looks awkward, particularly because they can clip through each 
 other to reach certain places. Speaking of clipping, shadow clipping in the game is particularly 
 problematic -- you can often see shadows incorrectly poking through corners and other geometry. Enemies 
 also clip through doors if they're about to run through them. There's no excessive gore in Close 
 Combat, although there is a bit of blood. Bodies simply flop over or around with generic rag-doll 
 physics after getting shot or blown up. As far as sound goes, Close Combat's gunshots and explosions 
 are pretty decent, although the music is sparse and the voice acting isn't all that great.  

  How much you end up enjoying Close Combat: First to Fight will hinge a lot on what your expectations 
 are going in. If you were looking for the squad-based military shooter to end all shooters, this 
 isn't it. While the game has enjoyable co-op play and some moments of great intensity, it feels 
 rough around the edges, lacking the necessary refinement in both gameplay and presentation to make 
 it easily recommendable. If you're just looking for a no-frills military shooter that you can play 
 together with some buddies, then Close Combat: First to Fight will probably deliver what you're 
 looking for.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (27 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Meat_Bag
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 2, 2008 10:06 pm PT
Review:  That's right, dear reader, after dozens and dozens of "military sims" we were bombarded with, we 
 finally get the chance to jump into boots of US Marines in this new, "realistic" military tactical 
 FPS called Close Combat: First To Fight. Not to confuse with Close Combat RTS series, of course... 
 
  
  Anyway, in this new military-simulation-wannabe, you get to see what it's like to be a badass Marine 
 in these modern days of urban warfare and high-tech gear. Sounds cool, you might think. Well, you're 
 right. Mostly. Altou extremely fun and well-balanced, this game suffers from a few drawbacks that 
 sometimes ruin all the fun, just in the middle of the coolest missions. 
  
  Well, to be honest, this game wasn't really signed by USMC as their official product. It was derived 
 from a simulator that Destineer (allegedly) developed for the Marines as a training tool. Be that 
 as it may, once again you are confronted with a typical scenario of good and honorable US Marines 
 being deployed in Beirut to protect the poor people from the evil terrorists. And the civil war. 
 And the Syrians. And the crazy warlord. And... ah, you know the rest. Truth be told, I never even 
 paid any attention to the story, simply because it's confusing, and because I've heard it all before 
 a thousand times. And, of course, because it awfully reminds me of recruitment commercial. From 
 the very intro movie to the silly macho one-liners your fellow marines say over and over again 
 every time you clean the area of few hostiles. 
  
  Really, after a few minutes, you'll begin to wonder what crappy action movie from the '90s served 
 as an inspiration for this game. Your squad mates sound so over-the-top macho you'll probably see 
 it all as a bit of tongue-in-cheek humor implemented into the game. Ah well. 
  
  But oh, I really am being unfair. I still haven't said anything about the game itself. Well, there 
 isn't much to say actually. This is a tactical FPS, pure and simple. You are a squad leader. You 
 command your squad. You can give them order to cover you, suppress the enemy, hold position, clean 
 a room of enemies (with or without lobbing a grenade in first) , and that's about it. Been there, 
 done that. If you played any tactical FPS game before, from the very first Rainbow Six and Ghost 
 Recon, you'll know what to expect here. 
  
  The thing that is crucial to any game such as this is the AI. I mean, this is a squad-based game, 
 where you're supposed to rely on your mates to cover your back. And work together with them to 
 achieve a goal. If the AI fails, squad-based tactics turn quickly into babysitting, and you'll 
 often wish it was a lone-wolf FPS where you wouldn't have to wait for some moron who can't even 
 pass through a damn door without getting stuck, or killed. 
  
  Lucky for us, your squad mates in this game are pretty smart and efficient killing machines. They 
 cover each other very well, and don't think twice about killing an enemy you might not even notice. 
 If you order them to take cover behind something, they do it good. If they're supposed to suppress 
 the enemy, they unload on him like crazy, mowing down anything in their path. Unlike Full Spectrum 
 Warrior, where your opponent would remain unharmed by hail of your bullets if he's behind some 
 cover, despite the fact that half of his back and his head lies widely exposed. 
  
  However, the AI does display occasional signs of idiocity. Sometimes you feel like your squad is 
 doing all the work for you, but sometimes they're so dumb you'll want to kill them yourself. Sometimes, 
 if you order them to take cover behind something, they won't be able to cover a certain direction, 
 or even shoot. All they have to do is peek around the corner, or raise their head a little bit, 
 but noooooooo... They will crouch behind a car and tell you they can't see the target. Really?! 
 And how about getting up on your feet so you could have a better view and still remain behind a 
 damn cover? Never tought of that? Or peek behind a corner? Sometimes they'll even ignore the enemies, 
 or even fire at the wrong direction. Happened rarely, I know. You really have to work with them, 
 I know. Take care of your squad and they will take care of you, I know that as well. 
  
  But sometimes they're really pushing their luck with my patience. 
  
  Well, most of the time 
 you will be leading your men through war-torn urban environments, take on MG nests, armored cars, 
 call air strikes, sniper support, etc., etc. Nothing new there either. Despite a few glitches with 
 the AI, this game offers a lot of fun. It somehow blends hard-core military sim and user-friendly 
 FPS into one. And does the job quite well. 
  
  There is no conventional save system, of course, only checkpoints. You can save any time you like, 
 but it always brings you back to your previous checkpoint position. But thank God, there are enough 
 checkpoints to go around this time. So there won't be any frustration about that. Both you and 
 your men have a health bar that can be replenished by medpacks if necesarry. Personally, I think 
 that just about kills any realism in the game. But hey, better than hurling your wounded mate to 
 medevac for 10 minutes, such as Full Spectrum Warrior. 
  
  Also your enemies display a stunning amount of stamina and damage they can take before dropping 
 dead on the ground. Both you and your men wear helmets and body armor, so I can somehow understand 
 why one bullet in the chest doesn't mean an instant incapacitation, but when you see a half-naked 
 terrorist taking 4 bullets in the chest without any sign of slowing down, it feels simply stupid 
 and unfair. Sure, he may limp for a few seconds, but the only way to bring him down with one shot 
 is if you hit him between the eyes. Or three or four shots in his toe, doesn't really matter. 
 
  
  When, oh when will there ever be a "realistic" military game where your enemies die if shot in 
 the chest, and limp if hit in the leg? Where there will be a difference between shooting a man 
 through his heart and scratching his backpack? Because of these shortcomings, this "realistic" 
 game isn't realistic at all. It's just one of those military-sim-wannabe games that never truely 
 gets all the credit it should get. 
  
  But hey, it's fun. Very fun. I hate to admit it, but I was actually pretty surprised by this electronic 
 wonder boy. Like I said, it's well-balanced and offers a lot of cool stuff. Graphics and sounds 
 are nothing special, but don't let that distract you. It's a game worth playing, but don't expect 
 a lot. There is no new Operation Flashpoint here. More like "Ghost Recon meets Star Wars: Republic 
 Commando". A little bit of realism, a little bit of plain fun. Semper fi, men! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: uyjr
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 28, 2008 12:01 pm PT
Review:  is a flashy -- albeit transitory and imperfect -- new FPS from Atomic Games and Destineer Studios 
 that pays respectful homage to U. S. Marines abroad. 
  
  Developed with input from over 40 active-duty Marines, First to Fight is an urban combat game set 
 in a war-torn 2006 Beirut. As the head of a four-man Marine fire team, you must lead your RTFA 
 (Ready Team Fire Assist) squad through six hectic missions subdivided into 22 levels. Your three 
 teammates consist of a SAW gunner (equipped with an M249 machinegun) , an assistant gunner, and 
 a rifleman. You can't directly control these soldiers, but you can individually or collectively 
 order them to perform specific tasks, such as "Go To," "Form Up," and "Give Suppressing Fire." 
 When breaching a closed room, you can also direct them to execute a Takedown (or Frag Takedown) 
 maneuver to minimize your exposure to enemy fire. There are some built-in tutorials explaining 
 the procedures, but they're non-interactive, and like the game's coarsely animated FMV cutscenes, 
 largely forgettable. 
  
  The game also features a MAGTF (Marine Air-Ground Task Force) component that permits you to call 
 in air and mortar strikes against dug-in enemy positions or request a Marine sniper when your team's 
 pinned down outdoors. This support is limited, so you have to pick and choose when it's really 
 needed. The RTFA concept is intriguing and adds significantly to the FPS dynamic. It's good to 
 know that someone's got your back when you're advancing down a dark alley, and FtF models these 
 real-world Marine tactics quite convincingly. Your team will seek cover from surrounding buildings 
 and vehicles as they move while orienting themselves to cover potential fire sectors and provide 
 360-degree security from OPFOR (Opposing Forces) attacks. This four-way buddy system is extremely 
 effective in an urban setting where enemy fire can come from any direction, including windows and 
 rooftops. 
  
  Unfortunately, the A. I. isn't sophisticated enough to pull it off with any consistency. When an 
 enemy gunman jumps out from behind or above you, your trailing teammates will identify and engage 
 the threat, but it's a real coin toss whether they'll dispatch him effectively. I witnessed a number 
 of firefights where my guys used an entire magazine to kill a bad guy from point blank range and 
 many more where they stood rooted to the spot (while completely exposed) , ingesting round after 
 lethal round of OPFOR fire. 
  
  The enemy A. I. is similarly inconsistent. Some will shoot from behind cover, smartly evading your 
 team's return fire, while others openly stagger towards you in some ludicrous Night of the Living 
 Dead impression. (A cursory psychology model is in place here, but "suicidal" doesn't quite fit) . 
 These rag-tag Lebanese, Syrian, Iranian, and Arab radicals -- they're pretty easy to spot, just 
 look for a turban and a scruffy beard -- are also quite the Chatty Cathys. As you near their "hidden" 
 positions, they'll erupt into spontaneous Arabic conversation to let you know you're getting close. 
 Even when they're alone. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: PhoenixB1ue
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 14, 2008 7:29 pm PT
Review:  Just another fps.
  Regular fps style of gameplay. Nothing too unique in this game.
  The game has no real tutorial. The tutorial in game is basically watching some short videos. You 
 don't actually get to "play" the tutorial.
  Anyway, the game takes place in the city of Beirut. The whole game is in this city so you'll get 
 tired of the environment rather quickly.
  There's a storyline but doesn't really do much and is predictable.
  The gameplay is ok. Killing 
 bad guys, going from checkpoint to checkpoint, commanding your squad. The AI is not very good but 
 isn't as bad as some people say. They can still aim, sometimes.
  It gets really repetitive however. Each mission (next checkpoint) is pretty much the same. You 
 will travel through sewers often and go into different houses that look similar inside. I got really 
 bored after a while.
  There's only 3 different guns in this game, and all the bad guys look the same.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: hethatis
Rating: 6.5
Date: Apr 14, 2008 10:11 pm PT
Review:  The game is well enough made but it misses its mark in several ways. The fire team movement works 
 pretty well, but your teammates' AI is weak. Many times my SAW gunner put a couple hundred rounds 
 in to the pillar he was trying to hide behind, rather than lean out and shoot around it. The hallmark 
 of the Close Combat series has always been the psychological model. The company's website mentions 
 that this game has it, but it is really useless. The enemy AI is week enough that they will stand 
 there and let you shoot them, and the fighting is basically getting ambushed over and over. There 
 are no cat-and-mouse chases and no interaction with anyone you don't shoot. That said, the game 
 is pretty and the atmosphere is very immersive. It's an okay game, but just okay. Close Combat 
 devotees will not miss anything by passing on this one. It has very little, if anything, to do 
 with Close Combat. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hooley12
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 9, 2007 10:07 am PT
Review:  This game was surprisingly good. I bought it for $6.00 thinking "ok I'll give it a shot", not expecting 
 much. What I found was a good military shooter. Most of the negative reviews here are probably 
 from people who like arcade type games with little or no realism. I was in the marines, and by 
 no means is this game exactly how it is in real life, but it does offer plenty of fun if you like 
 modern shooters. It is far better than Rainbow Six Lockdown. Lockdown has stupid "stick figure" 
 Al and certain levels that are more frustrating than fun. 
  Overall, this game is fun without all of the dumb monsters and mutants that most FPS games have 
 today. If you like Modern shooters, this game is well worth the money. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: majesticcryx
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 13, 2007 2:32 pm PT
Review:  First-person shooters can turn big profits for developers, so it's no surprise to see the long-running 
 Close Combat RTS series segue off into the squad-based tactical-shooter arena. Close Combat: First 
 to Fight is a flashy -- albeit transitory and imperfect -- new FPS from Atomic Games and Destineer 
 Studios that pays respectful homage to U. S. Marines abroad.
  
  Developed with input from over 40 active-duty Marines, First to Fight is an urban combat game set 
 in a war-torn 2006 Beirut. As the head of a four-man Marine fire team, you must lead your RTFA 
 (Ready Team Fire Assist) squad through six hectic missions subdivided into 22 levels. Your three 
 teammates consist of a SAW gunner (equipped with an M249 machinegun) , an assistant gunner, and 
 a rifleman. You can't directly control these soldiers, but you can individually or collectively 
 order them to perform specific tasks, such as Go To, Form Up, and Give Suppressing Fire. When breaching 
 a closed room, you can also direct them to execute a Takedown (or Frag Takedown) maneuver to minimize 
 your exposure to enemy fire. There are some built-in tutorials explaining the procedures, but they're 
 non-interactive, and like the game's coarsely animated FMV cutscenes, largely forgettable.
  
  The game also features a MAGTF (Marine Air-Ground Task Force) component that permits you to 
 call in air and mortar strikes against dug-in enemy positions or request a Marine sniper when your 
 team's pinned down outdoors. This support is limited, so you have to pick and choose when it's 
 really needed.
  
  Weapons selection is limited, but the default M-16 A4 is all the gun you really need.
  
  The 
 RTFA concept is intriguing and adds significantly to the FPS dynamic. It's good to know that someone's 
 got your back when you're advancing down a dark alley, and FtF models these real-world Marine tactics 
 quite convincingly. Your team will seek cover from surrounding buildings and vehicles as they move 
 while orienting themselves to cover potential fire sectors and provide 360-degree security from 
 OPFOR (Opposing Forces) attacks. This four-way buddy system is extremely effective in an urban 
 setting where enemy fire can come from any direction, including windows and rooftops.
  
  Unfortunately, the A. I. isn't sophisticated enough to pull it off with any consistency. When an 
 enemy gunman jumps out from behind or above you, your trailing teammates will identify and engage 
 the threat, but it's a real coin toss whether they'll dispatch him effectively. I witnessed a number 
 of firefights where my guys used an entire magazine to kill a bad guy from point blank range and 
 many more where they stood rooted to the spot (while completely exposed) , ingesting round after 
 lethal round of OPFOR fire.
  
  The enemy A. I. is similarly inconsistent. Some will shoot from behind cover, smartly evading your 
 team's return fire, while others openly stagger towards you in some ludicrous Night of the Living 
 Dead impression. (A cursory psychology model is in place here, but suicidal doesn't quite fit) . 
 These rag-tag Lebanese, Syrian, Iranian, and Arab radicals -- they're pretty easy to spot, just 
 look for a turban and a scruffy beard -- are also quite the Chatty Cathys. As you near their hidden 
 positions, they'll erupt into spontaneous Arabic conversation to let you know you're getting close. 
 Even when they're alone.
  The brevity of the six-mission single-player game is the single biggest letdown. At the lowest 
 difficulty setting, experienced FPS gamers can whip through all 22 levels in a mere four or five 
 hours. You can double this by switching to simulation mode (where a single bullet can end your 
 life and send you back to your last save-game checkpoint) , but the higher difficulty setting also 
 exacerbates the game's many A. I. faults. You pretty much have to crawl if you don't want to lose 
 team members to their own incompetence.
  
  Mercifully, most of these A. I. deficiencies are non-issues in FtF's engaging multiplayer game. 
 Playable over a LAN or an Internet connection, you can buddy up with three humans to replay any 
 of the game's single-player missions (against an A. I. enemy) or alternatively pit your four-man 
 fire team against another human squad in one of the FTA deathmatch arenas. The in-game lobbies 
 are usually well populated, and the on-screen action is consistently entertaining and surprisingly 
 lag-free. (As an added bonus, you get access to a slew of new weapons in the Modified Co-Op mode) .
 
  
  The game's murky graphics often force you to use your night-vision goggles.
  
  Destineer won't win any major graphics awards for First to Fight, but if you can overlook the occasional 
 visual blemish (framerate bottlenecks and shadows passing through walls to name two) , the game 
 still deserves kudos for its detailed character renders and impressive war-damaged Beirut backdrops. 
 The murky lighting forces you to don night-vision goggles a few too many times, even in daytime 
 scenarios, and, ironically, the bad guys don't seem to require any technological assistance to 
 frag you in the dark. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RAFE1941
Rating: 2.5
Date: Nov 12, 2006 1:29 pm PT
Review:  After holding out as long as i could, i finally bought this game a few months back. I was excited 
 about the graphics, sound, cooperative play, and the fact that it was based on a Marine training 
 tool. But oh was i dissapointed.
  
  First of all, if the Marine's use this as a training tool or anything based off it, we're in trouble 
 overseas, that is for sure! Graphically the game is strongest just as the GS reviewer said, but 
 there is not much physics as to your enviornment, be as georgous as it is. Textures are sharp, 
 and gun models are well done.
  
  However, the player's POV (Point of View) is something else to be said. The camera has you fixed 
 on this backround zoomed POV, and you basically have heavy loss of peripheral vision, or to put 
 it simply, tunnel vision! Now the close quarters combat is zoomed beyond acceptability for any 
 reason. This is one of the worst problems hampering the gameplay.
  
  When engaging the enemy whether from afar or by room to room clearing, you will find your 4 man 
 fire team (if that on multiplayer) is very capable of dealing death to a whole division of the 
 opposing force. Even with artillery, airstrike, mortor, or sniper support, the combat is so unrealistic, 
 i can't see this ever being based on a training tool for the Marines. Depending on the difficulty 
 you set it at, the AI is do-able, but that in all clarity does not matter when you face as many 
 as you end up doing.
  
  The missions themselves are so quickly thrown together it is almost embarrasing. You hear a very 
 brief and almost emotionless order over the radio (which usually comes at the exact time you can't 
 hear anything while shooting the last enemy that triggers the order) that gives you an order that 
 you'll find later is really Kill 2000 Syrians and then report back to base . I know military = 
 no emotions when it comes to orders, but i'd like to feel some sympathy when im supposed to kill 
 as many people as i'm about to. Real life combat isn't always epic battles against 100+ enemy in 
 a hot firefight! I can't wait until game developers realize that. There is no story, even with 
 the CNN style news reporting, it is a sorry excuse for an attempt to make you feel engaged in any 
 way.
  
  Sounds are solid, loud as ever, and another strong point for this game. But i think by now you 
 don't need to read anymore to get the idea. Don't buy this game, don't rent it for Xbox. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Homes225
Rating: 5
Date: Sep 27, 2006 4:28 pm PT
Review:  Close Combat: First to Fight starts off nicely with allowing you to change hud options for a more 
 real experience but stops right there. The graphics are shown to be very polished in screenshots 
 and such but they are nothing like ingame graphics even on the highest settings. A. I. animations 
 are glitchy at times and your teams lierally moves as one not as their own seperate soldiers but 
 as one clump of 3 marines. The tutorial sounded cool, I thought bootcamp would be more realistic 
 but no, it was just videos of gameplay... The enemy A. I. is highly laughable because you can just 
 run and gun through all the levels without stopping for cover even on Marine mode (3rd of 4 difficulties) . 
 While the concept is a good one the makers just failed in this Marine based FPS. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dazzn
Rating: 5.1
Date: Sep 10, 2006 2:35 pm PT
Review:  Well... theres been so much hype abt this game for a preety long time before its release, and so 
 i believed (stupidly) that the game would turn out to be more than just any other military-based 
 shooter. I got it at a discounted price by the way.. so it aint that heart-wrenching.
  
  When i got the game with its Final Fantasy like - 4 disc set, i thought i was holding onto something 
 beefy and that a life changing experience is awaiting at the end of its installation. hitting the 
 icon on my desktop, i waited eagerly as it boots up. When the intro movie started, i was distracted 
 by the models in them. They were not proportionate and the graphics for the terrorrists were ugly. 
 Effects like the traces of smoke trailing the rockets looked more like patches of paint on a photoshop 
 piece. My enthusiasm went from hero... to zero... Well i have not even started playing the game so 
 what the heck, ill just see how it goes.
  
  For some reason i could not enter the tutorials - which pissed me off even more. However, when 
 i started the first mission, i was pleasantly surprise. Details on my fellow comrades were sweet, 
 backpacks, camo coloured uniforms and equipment looks good. The levels were really linear, nothing 
 much to explore ( most shooters are like that anyways) and repetative stuffs.
  the animations on my team mates were very limited so when you order your troops to cover an area, 
 they run in such a perfect timing and animation, we could call it line dancing. There were no varieties 
 in movement so it gets dull fast. Theres a few storm the room options available but you cant use 
 it on every door. I was waiting for this to come, and as i clicked on Frag option, my teammates 
 jus line up in a straight line. Like what the helllllll... i was waiting for some SWAT style positions 
 and all i got was 3 clowns in a row. At this point i just lost all faith. Enemies come from every 
 corner which helps create alittle excitement during combat. They would flank you or come in waves, 
 keeping me on my toes for a mere minute or two. Its Realism their emphasising, so a couple of shots 
 and your dead. This is particularly fustrating as certain angles in the level are alittle weird 
 and your teammates are not that fond of finding cover. If two of your members or you go down, your 
 dead. You must restart the entire level. There are options of using snipers and airstrikes to aid 
 you in clearing larger obstacles. Sniper dont really help as sometime they suck in their sense 
 of direction. Their sorry asses would sometime be facing the enemy, so whats the point of it. The 
 airstrike however is kinda effective, but takes the thrill outa busting some tanker's butt with 
 cool weapons.
  
  My Advice - Rent it if you desperately need a game to kill time when you feel that life has no 
 meaning anymore. Okay~ its not that bad. Still - rent it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: asian_marine
Rating: 8.2
Date: Jul 14, 2006 10:37 pm PT
Review:  I absolutely could not wait for this game to come out when I heard about it. I am joining the Marines 
 when i get out of high school and this game had kinda of a personal theme to it, since I'll be 
 seeing a lot of this in the near future. I love the Idea that you're squad give you 360 degeree 
 protection, but the A. I. in this game is not the best. I think it was rushed a little. The grpahics 
 and sounds are incredbile, and the fact that over 40 active duty marines helped make this game 
 is a very interesting fact. The attention to detail is incredible. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mongoose689
Rating: 9.4
Date: May 26, 2006 6:52 am PT
Review:  The single player campaign for this game is alright standing on its own, but the multiplayer element 
 for this game is what brought it home for me. I almost didn't even want to touch this game because 
 I have never been a fan of the Close Combat series, but when I learned it was a FPS, I just had 
 to try it out! From fighting atop bridges, bunkering down in half-demolished buildings, and fighting 
 an all out war from an apartment building across the street, the multiplayer has it all! Anyone 
 who enjoys multiplayer FPS's must absolutely try out this game, and I can almost guarantee that 
 you will have a blast! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Battleer
Rating: 6.7
Date: May 11, 2006 12:28 pm PT
Review:  Well this game is definently not the best fps ever it's actually not that great it's got some good 
 values to it such as the online coop and the squad commands but it has some serious problems such 
 as the severe mouse lag on older systems and the ai it really sucks at times it makes you wonder 
 how long they took to make this game but nonetheless it does have its strong points the coop is 
 quiet fun and the community is great also the squad commands are pretty cool. The graphics are fairly 
 good nothing special though same with the sound so overall this game is fairly good but not great 
 now that there are better games for cheap however I suggest you just skip over this one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: IceCold87
Rating: 6.7
Date: Apr 17, 2006 5:55 pm PT
Review:  Let me first say, that I heard a lot of hype about this game. Friends, gamers, and even actual 
 servicemen all had high hopes that this would replace America's Army and Ghost Recon as the new 
 online military tacical FPS. I didn't expect much when I heard it was "an official training tool" 
 of the Marines but I was interested none-the-less. Needless to say, I was a little dissapointed 
 once I cut my teeth on the first few missions and realized that all the hype was for nothing.
 
  
  Story/Gameplay:
  
  The story for "Close Combat: First to Fight" is quite interesting, although it's been done many 
 a time. Basically, civil war has broken out in Beirut and it's time once again for the mighty USA 
 to intervene and wipe out all the enemy combatants and restore peace and order to the once (never) 
 peaceful Beirut. The story and mission summaries are told through cute "CNN" style news reports 
 with combat reporters on the front lines of each battle. The missions range from simple combat 
 patrols to capture or kill operations for HVTs (High Value Targets) . Each of these "HVTs" is a 
 high ranking enemy general or leader that takes the place of an ace of hearts, diamonds in the 
 US's deck of baddies. Nice idea, but you just don't believe it once you hop into these missions. 
 Usually when your sent on the HVT hunt you get constant updates from your commander that confirms 
 the HVT was there 2 minutes ago but he moved, time for an objective change! You can expect this 
 multiple times in the game and let me tell you, it gets dull.
  
  Another, interesting aspect of the gameplay is your "support" options. At the beginning of every 
 mission you are assigned a certain amount of support points. These points can be used on such fun 
 things as Sniper Support, Mortar Barrages and even Apache gunship strikes. Sadly, the sniper support 
 has almost no function and unless called for in the proper location, the sniper will be facing 
 the wrong direction and not help your team at all. There are only a limited amount of times you 
 can use these options and most of the time you will forget you even have them unless the team Commander 
 informs you to use them.
  
  Locations:
  
  Your in Beirut, need I say more? The missions you team is sent on take place in such exotic locales 
 as Sewers, blown-out apartment buildings, back alleys, and abandoned Subway stations. Each of these 
 locales is just as pretty as the other, nicely textured, but a little to clean in some areas (such 
 as the sewers) , and you sometimes forget your in war-torn Beirut and not in a back alley of NYC.
 
  
  Team AI:
  
  Obviously since this game is supposed to be a training tool developed for/by Marines you would 
 think that the AI has got to be super smart, accurate and loyal to your cause. Sadly, the Marines 
 on your team are 3 drones that will do anything you tell them to, even if it means running into 
 street teaming with snipers and RPGs. When told to "go to" a location they all run in a clumped 
 up group and all run with the same animation, which looks VERY cheesy and just wrong. As for your 
 men's ability to properly fire, and peak around corners, they just don't. If you want your man 
 to peek around a corner and cover a street you have to aim your reticule damn near to the mirometer 
 of where he should be standing at the corner, it's usually easier just to peek and fire at the 
 enemy yourself. I have had many an encounter where my team member with the M249 SAW will be crouched, 
 peaking around a corner, covering a hall when an enemy will walk around the corner, shoot him in 
 the head and then proceed to kill my entire team. This happens too many times and I expected much 
 much more from the team AI.
  
  Enemy AI:
  
  Ahh yes, it appears the developers got things switched around on this one. The enemy AI are smart, 
 and they will kill you, very fast. While playing on the normal or "Marine" setting you will get 
 flanked, snipers, blown up and just plain shot at point blank so many times from unknown enemies 
 that you will throw your keyboard up in the air for joy. The AI for these "rebel" factions you 
 battle against are skilled in the art of sniping with AK-47s from distances out of your graphic 
 card's draw distance. They will also take pot shots at you from absurd angles and your team will 
 usually have no chance of getting a proper shot back. Many a time your objective will be in front 
 of you and while moving forward three enemies will approach from your rear and totally decimate 
 you (I thought there was supposed to be a Marine covering your 6, sadly he's too busy looking at 
 the sky) . If you expose yourself, you will die. It's that simple. 
  
  Graphics:
  
  Ah finally, the fun part. Yes, they did seem to put some effort into this game graphic wise. The 
 team textures are good except that they all look the same and it gets boring pretty quick to see 
 three of the same drones running around in front of you. Enemy textures look superb and you will 
 notice a large difference in their multiple uniforms that will make you check if they have a gun 
 before you fire. Explosions, particle effects and decals all look great and the developer's did 
 a good job on making it feel like your actually getting shot at by REAL rebels.
  
  Sound:
  
  Good sounds, a little repetitive but none the less good. When you see an enemy you 
 will hear a loud whistle (I'm assuming that is the enemy whistling for friends, but it could be 
 your rear rifleman acting bored) . All the gunshots and explosions sound real and the constant banging 
 of your M16-A4 is accurate. From time to time you will hear explosions off in the distance and 
 your screen will shake making you real scared that the roof will cave in (it won't) . Close Combat: 
 First to Fight has a good soundtrack that starts off sounding like a church choir but quickly escalates 
 into good heroic, military, patriotic listening. Ah yes, the numerous outcries from civilians and 
 enemies alike are realistic as well. Prepare to hear "Nice shot, Lance Corporal" a lot.
  
  Overall Value:
  
  Do you get enough bang for your buck in this one? I would say yes, the small 
 ideas that the developer's sunk into this game work well and you will be surprised at some of them. 
 Numerous suprises such as Apache fly-bys, enemies with walkie-talkies appearing on the rooftops 
 to coordinate your team's activites, and Sniper support showing up (on actual rooftops) will really 
 make your first few missions in this game run smoothly. Enjoy the action while it lasts and hope 
 that if Destineer decides to make another Military Tactical FPS that they put a little bit more 
 effort into their AI. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: herodotus2006
Rating: 5.8
Date: Apr 12, 2006 11:29 pm PT
Review:  Great, I thought, playing a modern-day Marine Corps FPS. At the very least it wipe out the foul 
 taste in my mouth from playing "Vietcong". I'd just finished reading "The March Up" by Brig. Gen. 
 R. L. Smith & Bing West about the Marines in action in Iraq. Its' a great read if you appreciate 
 military history, or just plain good writing. Now I get "Close Combat: First To Fight" and a chance 
 to try out detailed & authentic Marine squad urban tactics in a FPS structure. Used as a training/ 
 recruitment tool as well no less. 
  Everything about it from press releases to the box art screamed authenticity. Its' all good... then 
 you start playing. "Semper Fi, Mother******", you yell at the enemy and whip out your M-16 to spray 
 the room. Only it doesn't "whip out". It stutters out and the frame rate plummets as you fire. 
 The Recommended (let alone required) specs are out by a mile. Once a firefight really gets going 
 (which is quite seldom) it jitters all over the place. The enemy AI is terrible (but your squad's 
 is way, way worse) . Both enemy & friendly troops either stand there waiting to be shot or fragged, 
 or they somehow have access to a transporter room and materialize out of nowhere. Checked behind 
 the couch? Yep!!! Walk forward and get shot in the back by an enemy behind that same couch. Ouch!!!
 
  Its' not a bad game (well it is actually) . But its' no COD or MOHAA either. Install it, breathe 
 in the detailed urban settings, call in an airstrike, kill em all, frag yourself, then uninstall 
 it, forget it, play COD II. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zoostyle
Rating: 7.2
Date: Apr 6, 2006 1:45 pm PT
Review:  Some strange things go on in "Close Combat: First to Fight". At first you look at it on the surface 
 and feel "oh good, they got a worthy tactical squad based sim out there" And you can shoot at people 
 too like a regular FPS. WOW! The best of both worlds! But what lets this game down is the damn 
 voice acting! It is one of the weirdest and off kilter I have ever heard in any game. The voices 
 sound bored and un-inspired. Monotonous traffic like "Contact." "Cain't do that!" "Weeee're good 
 to go." just don't sound right. The enemy too sounds like the same re-hashed stuff from "Delta 
 Force: Task Force Dagger". I love how one marine will say "It's way TOO frickin' quiet!" when there 
 was just a firefight with 5 or 6 OPFOR getting wasted in the last 10 seconds! lol
  
  Don't get me wrong, I dug this game. You do have almost full control of your four man fireteam 
 (part of a MAGTF) the only thing missing is you cannot take personal control of each guy but that's 
 ok. The friendly AI lacks alot though as you have to baby sit the guys alot and get them to point 
 their M-16A4's in the right direction! The character animations are not very good either. From 
 the "all-wrong" helmets to the lack of any detail really on the marine's gear and the choppy way 
 everyone walks and crouches just got me mad. 
  
  There are some great features to this game but they do get overlooked. Call for a corpsman to pick 
 up a wounded marine and you hear the man saying he is on the way but what's funny is you never 
 see the guy show up or pick up the casevac, he just disappears! Lol
  Graphics are pretty ok, the streets and city look good with banners and people's laundry hanging 
 from the balconies.
  
  Not a good comparison to a better game "Full Spectrum Warrior" or the god of them all "Ghost Recon". 
 This game was newer than both and could have been better! Still worth playing.
  
  "RED. GREEN."
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: LtTora
Rating: 6.2
Date: Apr 1, 2006 11:39 pm PT
Review:  First and foremost I will say that I have never thought highly of the USMC to begin with but I 
 was hopeful that it would still make a decent game, sadly I was rather disappointed after a few 
 hours of play. 
  
  The Marines in the game are not out of character though, they are as arrogant and most Marines 
 seem to be, going on about how they think that they are greatest thing since sliced bread. 
  
  The game play is fair at best. Enemy and friendly AI is only so so, it has nothing on games 
 like Rainbow Six, Ghost Recon, SW Republic Commando, SOCOM 3, etc. 
  
  The game does have its good points however. It is not a very difficult game which makes it a nice 
 distraction but is just not as involving as some of the before mentioned games. 
  
  The in game commands are similar to Rainbow Six for the Console it offers very little control over 
 your teammates. It's best not to rely on your provided weapon as their is no means to gain extra 
 ammo owing one to the fact that you have no control of the weapons you take into battle with you 
 and two their are no weapon caches in any of the missions. So it's best to always pick up an AK-47, 
 as there is plenty of ammo for this weapon. 
  
  Mission length varies, it can be long or it can be very short. This is actually a plus in the game 
 as it reflects that real missions can be over quite quickly or can drag on for sometime. 
  
  In between missions you will often see news reports of what is going on around you in the area 
 you are engaged in. 
  
  Over all... it's your money! Whether you like it or not is up to you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: -daniel-
Rating: 6.9
Date: Mar 23, 2006 9:08 am PT
Review:  Close combat: First to fight bring us to the middle east as part of a marine squad to solve another 
 conflict between terrorist and civilians. This game tried to be a tactical shooter but failed where 
 others like Swat 4 and BiA succeded.
  
  In the game, you playe as a lenc coporal that leads a group of 4 man from the marines corp throw 
 the narrow streets of lebanon. You'll get all the newest equipment from the marines arsenal like 
 the M-4 rifle with grande launcher and scope, night vision and more. 
  
  Your goal is to eliminate enemy troops and viechels without losing even one mamber of your team.
 
  
  In addition to your troops, you can ask any time in the game for air support if there is an enemy 
 bunker in your way, sniper to eliminate enemy snipers and morter that have some of the same impact 
 as the air support.
  
  Your teammate's AI is kind of between avarge and below. Although they can return fire find cover 
 and listen to your orders, sometimes they just seem to be stupid. But there AI is much better compare 
 to the enemys AI: the opfor of the lebanon forces never looks so redicilous. If you put fire on 
 an enemy soldier he can suddnely look away and ignore you, and afcourse be a easy target. 
  
  This bring me to the technical problams this game have. After reading how the opfor soldiers 
 can be, the game is also full of annoying little bugs and issues that can let you enjoy the game.
 
  
  The graphics are nice but thats all. There isn't something new in the game engine and not sanything 
 to be proud of. Maybe one thing: this game can work on most of the old computers without difficulty.
 
  The sound is o. k but again, without anything new. There isn't much music in the game (come to 
 think about it I don't think there is music) and the player sound really bad.
  
  If you can find this game in a reasonble price of below 17$, than you may enjoy it. Otherwise don't 
 buy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: commando8535
Rating: 6.8
Date: Jan 5, 2006 9:30 pm PT
Review:  Most games these days are about the Army, few developers have ever ventured out and released games 
 about the Navy or Marines for that matter but Take Two and Destineer studios stepped up to the 
 plate with Close Combat First to Fight.
  
  First of all, I'm what you call a "realism whore", If I play games about a certain subject matter 
 (Military for instance) then I expect that game to be as realistic as possible, I don't want some 
 arcade shooter and I certainly don't want a game that is half assed by producers, So in this review 
 expect the worst.
  
  Game play:
  
  In CCF2F you command the basic Marine Infantry team which is a 4-man Marine Fire team (Evidently 
 youre the Lance Corporal in Charge) , the command system in this game is actually one of the best 
 I've ever seen, it's easy to learn and easy to use, you'll be clearing rooms and clearing streets 
 in no time. The mission itself well there your average type of missions, from clearing an enemy 
 position to reaching the next waypoint the game however does throw in a few surprises, in each 
 mission your allotted a certain number of supporting teams (Whether it be Mortars, Marine Scout 
 Snipers or the big and mean AH-1Z Cobra Gunship) your allowed to use them in anyway you please 
 however using them carelessly will jeopardize the mission, F2F also utilizes a nifty Psychological 
 feature in the game, if an enemy soldier is pinned down on both flanks he'll panic and run, or 
 surrender (I'll talk about the later in a minute) . F2F also makes you aware for enemy HVTs (For 
 those who are not accustomed to Military jargon, it means High Value Target's) you will be ordered 
 to either neutralize or capture them and the option is all up to you, however neutralizing them 
 will decrease your overall score and effectiveness of your men, now for the fun part. F2F also 
 utilizes a Surrender system in which enemy Soldiers and Target's surrender and don't get all giddy. 
 Every soldier that you try to surrender may pull out a grenade or pistol and shoot you in the back 
 and don't try to get creative also, F2F will fail you automatically for shooting an EPW or POW 
 (Though out of frustration, my finger accidentally slipped) . 
  
  Now for the bad part, The enemy and Friendly AI in this game can be weird at times, most of the 
 times your Marines are poor shots (Makes you wonder how they passed the annual Marine Inspection) , 
 The enemy on the other hand are excellent shots (Wait, shouldn't it be the reverse?) , Sometimes 
 missions are just aggravating (Oh man, And out of frustration I kind of violated the Geneva Convention) , 
 your team mates aren't helpful at all the only thing there really good at is taking fire and (of 
 all things) clearing rooms.
  
  Sound:
  Unfortunately the bad luck doesn't stop here, the weapon sounds in F2F are soft and the worst I've 
 ever heard. The M16 sounds like a pop gun and the M249 barely scares the be Jesus out of the enemy, 
 The M2 sounds like a bird whistling and the explosions aren't fantastic at all.
  
  Graphics:
  Surprisingly F2F features pretty good graphics (the Hardware specs calls for a 32 
 mb Vid Card) , The Textures are nice but the Fatigues, Camouflage or Combats are tight (there not 
 suppose to be tight there suppose to be baggy, I Know I own a set of Combats) .
  
  
  The Few the Proud isn't all that cracked up as it's supposed to be:
  
  If you think the war 
 is over and everything bad stops here, then you my friend are wrong.
  
  F2F also has the tendency to lie a bit, In the Manual and even on their site it says that your 
 not alone well for the most part you are, there are no other Fire Teams, Squads, Platoons supporting 
 you there are no M1 Abrams or LAV25 coming to the rescue it's just you, and a handful of marines 
 helping you (That handful isn't what you expect) .
  
  Missions have the tendency to be repetitive, Clear this or Clear that, tactics are seldom used. 
 Your Friendly AI doesn't react to street corners or hallways (as stated in the video and manual) , 
 all they do is bunch up and follow you. People have a tendency of talking even when there mouths 
 are sealed shut, and on some missions shooting the enemy radio man as a way of failing the mission.
 
  
  And so this is the end of my review (My Guess is that you've slept through the whole thing)
  
 
  F2F was an excellent concept, taking something that hasn't been done before (Using Marines in a 
 Game) and putting it into the public mainstream, the concept was excellent but the execution was 
 terrible, F2F would have made an excellent Tactical FPS if the developers put some time into it. 
 You have 40 Marines who have just come back from combat in Afghanistan and Iraq, you have an extra 
 platoon of Marines at Camp Pendleton who are showing you the tricks of the trade and yet you create 
 a game that is really nothing more than an Arcade Shooter with a few tactics in it. 
  
  If there is to be another attempt in using Modern Day Marines then I'm hoping your not alone that 
 there will be M1 Abrams and LAV-25 Roaming through the streets, Your apart of a Platoon clearing 
 a certain sector and taking part in raids and destroying the enemy insurgency a better character 
 interaction and storyline, better sound and gameplay.
  
  Overall I give it 6.8 out of 10. 
  Excellent concept flawed execution.
  
  Maybe the version 
 that the USMC has is better
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Vietnamgamer
Rating: 6.3
Date: Dec 30, 2005 7:46 pm PT
Review:  In the game First to Fight, you are once again called into Lebanon, Beruit to destroy bunkers, 
 save news media personnel, secure perimeters, and take down HVT's (High Value Targets) . Although 
 the game sounds pretty fun, it has it's negatives. The game get's quite boring once you beat it, 
 or maybe in the middle for some of you. The graphics are okay for the PC, the XBOX has a little 
 better graphics (on the XBOX the AI's mouths move when they talk, unlike the PC) . On both the PC 
 and XBOX versions, the AI has the very outdated and not missed "brick" hands. You have a wide variety 
 of commands you can give (e. g. you can order them to take down a room) , but if you order the team 
 to Frag a room, they are supposed to open the door, throw the grenade in, then close the door, 
 but sometimes they will close the door before they throw the grenade, and kill your team! And some 
 of the civilians or News Personel you have to save and protect will run infront of you when you 
 shoot, then they become a casualty. 
  I thoguht this game was going to be alot better then it actually was, so if you have an XBOX, I 
 waould rent this game first. For those without an XBOX, I hope you read this review. The game was 
 pretty short, I beat it within 7 hours of gameplay, with no cheats (don't think there are any) . 
 Now taking a break from the single player mode, the online mode is pretty solid. You can be a variety 
 of soldier classes, including leader. It has a coop mode and a team and normal death matches. This 
 game was pretty easy, the controls are pretty easy to catch up on, the graphics were passable, 
 the guns and AI yelling sounded pretty real, the blood was some what realistic, but the explosions 
 sucked. Well thanks for reading my review. Have fun playing other games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Pat_Crap
Rating: 2.5
Date: Oct 29, 2005 12:32 pm PT
Review:  this game sucked the graphics sucked the game play sucked and the sound sucked like it seems like 
 they didnt even spend any time on this game i got bord so fast of this there was nothing to ride 
 on to me thats a big part of a game when the guys moved it wasnt smooth at all it just wasnt my 
 kind of game i like war but they need to spend more time on games and put somthing to drive in 
 and they need to spend more time on the graphics and well i dont know what to say now 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rcwadsworth
Rating: 5
Date: Oct 22, 2005 4:46 am PT
Review:  First to fight is some what behind TOM CLANCY Rainbow six series however first to fight is ok and 
 fills a gap - this game is still worth looking at but I would recommend to pick this title up secod 
 hand or at clerance sale I have payed this game for a while but since Lockdown's release not at 
 all 
  
  First to fight still is an ok game but it does not stand up against lockdown some movement issues 
 in gameplay the graphics are ok nothing to write home about.
  
  Again first to fight is ok and wil fill in a wet Sunday afternoon 
::::::

::::::
UserName: maximum_maximus
Rating: 8.6
Date: Oct 13, 2005 12:30 pm PT
Review:  The devs of 2k Games and Destineer has done an excellent job of creating a very believable and 
 intense combat experience in First to Fight. The characters, weapon, environmental, over all designs 
 are very detailed, and visually awe inspiring. The sound of combat and of enemy and team member 
 chatter are also very believable and helps to add to the experience. I am no fan of first person 
 games and there are only a few of them that I truly enjoyed in the past. I now can add First to 
 Fight to the ranks, from the storyline to the sound of combat and many other sounds that same to 
 flood in from all directions, to the witty, sometimes sarcastic remarks of your teammates and the 
 aggressive war cries and advancing attacks of the enemy, to the dilapidated and war torn buildings, 
 streets and vehicles that all carry the scorched and battered scars from intense battle. The enemy 
 AI is fantastic, they will seek cover when attacked and will attempt to flank your tame whilst 
 laying down a generous amount of fire. They will use every weapon in their arsenal to place you 
 and your men in a post mortem situation. Everything from grenades to RPGs and a number of other 
 small arms. All of this helps to make the game very challenging and fun to play. I totally recommend 
 First to fight to all you war junkies out there or anyone who enjoys a good shooter. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Donya222
Rating: 5.8
Date: Aug 1, 2005 8:55 pm PT
Review:  After holding out as long as i could, i finally bought this game a few months back. I was excited 
 about the graphics, sound, cooperative play, and the fact that it was based on a Marine training 
 tool. But oh was i dissapointed.
  
  First of all, if the Marine's use this as a training tool or anything based off it, we're in trouble 
 overseas, that is for sure! Graphically the game is strongest just as the GS reviewer said, but 
 there is not much physics as to your enviornment, be as georgous as it is. Textures are sharp, 
 and gun models are well done.
  
  However, the player's POV (Point of View) is something else to be said. The camera has you fixed 
 on this backround zoomed POV, and you basically have heavy loss of peripheral vision, or to put 
 it simply, tunnel vision! Now the close quarters combat is zoomed beyond acceptability for any 
 reason. This is one of the worst problems hampering the gameplay.
  
  When engaging the enemy whether from afar or by room to room clearing, you will find your 4 man 
 fire team (if that on multiplayer) is very capable of dealing death to a whole division of the 
 opposing force. Even with artillery, airstrike, mortor, or sniper support, the combat is so unrealistic, 
 i can't see this ever being based on a training tool for the Marines. Depending on the difficulty 
 you set it at, the AI is do-able, but that in all clarity does not matter when you face as many 
 as you end up doing.
  
  The missions themselves are so quickly thrown together it is almost embarrasing. You hear a very 
 brief and almost emotionless order over the radio (which usually comes at the exact time you can't 
 hear anything while shooting the last enemy that triggers the order) that gives you an order that 
 you'll find later is really "Kill 2000 Syrians and then report back to base". I know military = 
 no emotions when it comes to orders, but i'd like to feel some sympathy when im supposed to kill 
 as many people as i'm about to. Real life combat isn't always epic battles against 100+ enemy in 
 a hot firefight! I can't wait until game developers realize that. There is no story, even with 
 the CNN style news reporting, it is a sorry excuse for an attempt to make you feel engaged in any 
 way.
  
  Sounds are solid, loud as ever, and another strong point for this game. But i think by now you 
 don't need to read anymore to get the idea. Don't buy this game, don't rent it for Xbox. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: E-Tiger
Rating: 7
Date: Jul 27, 2005 12:30 am PT
Review:  This is a decent game... but has some rather serious Ghost Recon and America's Army envy issues. 
 The graphics are good... especially the detail on the models. The level design is claustrophobic 
 and tense... especially the transition from indoor to outdoors. I liked the overall "feel" to the 
 game... which produced a certain amount of tension and realism.
  
  Overall the game was a better than average shooter. The AI for both the squad members and the opponents 
 are good to excellent in specific situations. Sometimes the enemy units will outflank and maneuver 
 with gusto... and other times they will stand around like paper dolls... apparently the bot routes 
 need some adjustments here and there. I can't say I would recommend NOT buying the game... as it 
 is not bad... however, more recent games like Battlefield 2 will provide considerably more bang 
 for your precious FPS dollars. For the FPS junkies... who must play all the shooters... this game 
 will not disappoint and would be good to add to your collection. For the regular computer gamer... 
 this niche shooter is not for you... spend your money on a more mainstream shooter... aka Battlefield 
 2. A good game... but not a must have. Maybe wait for the price to drop to give it a try. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: oDARKBLADEo
Rating: 8.3
Date: Apr 30, 2005 6:30 pm PT
Review:  Many other reviews have been written on this game, and for the most part they are accurate in their 
 assessment. The Gamespot review is correct in its evaluation of many aspects of the game, however, 
 a few more things need to be said.
  
  The squad AI is far more useful than many reviewers make it out to be. The key lays in knowing 
 how to use them. Many of the missions take place in tunnels or indoors, and as such your team has 
 less room to move around. By placing them in specific locations and giving them specific areas 
 to cover, they are effective and utterly deadly. Unfortunately, their ability to cover all arcs 
 of fire (incredibly useful when you're outside) , is rather pointless indoors. It's a shame the 
 developer didn't adjust their positioning for inside locations, but with the tiniest amount of 
 management, this is easily overcome.
  
  Terrorist AI is passable, so don't expect to see Half-Life 2 or Halo AI here. However, they are 
 certainly as smart as the enemies in Rainbow Six, so though the bar has been raised by games like 
 Half-Life 2, for a tactical shooter it stands strong among its peers.
  
  Graphically the game is very good, though not earth-shattering. Again, Half-Life, Doom 3, Far Cry, 
 and others have raised the bar quite high. Yet, comparing it to the recently-released SWAT PC game, 
 it once again looks just fine. Indoor and outdoor locations are rendered with a great eye for detail 
 and small touches. Both types of locations run smoothly and never detract from the sense of immersion.
 
  
  Unlike the new SWAT game, there is a story in First to Fight, not just a bunch of missions tossed 
 together. The story unfolds via news clips for INN, a fictional version of CNN. Through their footage 
 and commentary, you learn about missions to come, and hear about your successes. At one point you 
 even have to storm a house to rescue trapped news reporters who followed the story a little too 
 closely for their own good. Other missions involve taking strong-points held by the enemy, and 
 capturing or killing key leaders. Leaders are represented via a deck of cards, similar to ones 
 used by the American military in Iraq. As you work your way through the deck, the story unfolds, 
 ramping up in complexity and difficulty as you go.
  
  If there is a criticism I would have towards the game, it would be in the area of weaponry. This 
 is not to say that the weapons are weak or poorly rendered. In fact, the opposite is true. The 
 M16 and M203 you use are accurate, deadly, and pack a good audio punch. However, being a marine 
 fire team, you always go into combat with the same weapon. You cannot take control of your support 
 gunner either. This is realism, but perhaps at the expense of some enjoyment. You can, however, 
 pick up dropped enemy weapons and ammunition (AK74 and RPK weapons mostly) . In some of the latter 
 missions, you'll need those weapons and the ammo you find, so pick it up whenever you can. If you 
 run out of ammo, you are pretty much screwed.
  
  The other issue is the one of health packs. Unlike the Rainbow Six games, you can collect med kits 
 and use them liberally to boost your health. Replacement kits can be found in strategic places 
 during the levels. The difficulty makes med kits a requirement, but some players are likely going 
 to be a bit disappointed with their inclusion. If you want hyper-realism, just don't use them.
 
  
  Overall, I had more fun with the single-player portion of this game than I have had with SWAT, 
 and it's on a very close second to Rainbox Six 3 for XBox. If you are a fan of tactical shooters, 
 and can overlook the fact that it's not a graphical showcase for next-gen technology, and has a 
 few wrinkles you need to occasionally work around, you will find your money well spent on First 
 to Fight. Semper Fi!
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: demonx5584
Rating: 7.2
Date: Apr 25, 2005 3:04 am PT
Review:  Well, I recently got a hold of this game and I have to say it's not that great. The graphics and 
 sound are great but the overall game play is boring and nothing new. Take Brothers in Arms: Road 
 to Hill 30 and Full Spectrum Warrior, mix in a few different things, and the outcome is Close Combat: 
 First to Fight. The worst thing about this game is that your squad absolutely sucks. They're sometimes 
 so retarded you just want to kill them... But then you fail the mission. :) Your squad some how 
 always gets left behind because they're slow and when you have to face 5 tango's, they sometimes 
 just stand there. Sometimes one of your squad mates stand in the middle of a street when tango's 
 with machine guns are just blasting away at them. And issuing your squad to cover or suppress is 
 a pain sometimes because if a wall is blocking their way, they say, "can't do that" and won't move. 
 Hell, even when they can cover, sometimes they don't do it very well because you'll notice they 
 let enemies walk by. 
  
  The ONLY good thing that I found about the squad is when you're able to issue takedowns. They barge 
 through a door (or can throw a grenade in first, if you wish) and kill anything in sight... And 
 it actually works! This is the most satisfying thing because you actually see how good our marines 
 are. :) However, a lot of times you can't issue that for every door so you're stuck with a bland 
 squad. 
  
  The enemy AI is the same. Sometimes they just rush you and won't shoot and sometimes they run RIGHT 
 THROUGH you (literally) without touching you. That doesn't happen very often, but it does happen. 
 
  
  Other little things about this game is that you can hold a maximum of 8 med kits for yourself. 
 Every once in a while, you'll see a med kit box hanging on a wall and can restock your med kits. 
 What's funny about med kits is when you're being shot at, you can instantly use a med kit and it'll 
 fill up your health like it's a magic potion or something. You can use them ANYTIME you want, even 
 when shooting. What sucks is you can't heal your team mates. 
  
  This game using the same system when it comes to death in Full Spectrum Warrior. If two of your 
 squad mates die, the mission is over. If you die, the mission is over (of course) . Nothing wrong 
 with that because you're supposed to keep everyone alive as long as possible. Say if only one member 
 dies, then he gets picked up and sent away and you won't be able to use him for the rest of the 
 mission. 
  
  Overall, I was a bit disappointed in this game. It has the current day squad leading like Full 
 Spectrum Warrior and the FPS perspective where you can shoot, control your guy and control a squad 
 like in Brothers in Arms, but doesn't do it successfully. Everything has been done before and I 
 don't know how the Marines use this as a training sim since it's basically a rambo-type game because 
 your squad can be extremely pathetic. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Visi0naries
Rating: 7.9
Date: Apr 23, 2005 5:28 pm PT
Review:  Close Combat: First to Fight is a military-themed first-person shooter, and people around the gaming 
 world might probably be saying "not another FPS, don't we already have enough?" Well, first off, 
 Close Combat: First to Fight is, like I stated, a military-themed shooter, so you can expect something 
 along the lines of America's Army or Full Spectrum Warrior, if you would count that. Like Full 
 Spectrum Warrior before it, Close Combat: First to Fight makes the promise of giving gamers an 
 authentic tactical experience as gamers step into the shoes of a United States Marine and guide 
 a four-man fire team through harms way. Does it stay true to it's word, or is it a bold-faced 
 lie?
  
  Instead of putting gamers into war-torn cities of present day like Iraq, Afghanistan, and whatnot, 
 Close Combat: First to Fight puts gamers in a fictional scenario in the near-future taking place 
 in Beirut, Lebanon. Their military forces have grown in number and are now pretty much taking over 
 the whole area. Now the United States military will be stepping in, and as you may already know, 
 it's now the United States' job to control the area and preserve peace.
  
  Close Combat: First to Fight's controls, will at first, be very frustrating and intimidating. With 
 the keyboard, you got your usual FPS layout, but soon you'll notice there's much more you need 
 to know about the keyboard and commands here is used. The first problem you'll most likely realize 
 is the actual issue of commands. In order to issue any sort of help, like an air strike, you need 
 to stand still, and be physically looking at an enemy before you can actually issue the commands. 
 If you don't already know, this will definitely give your enemies the advantage, as now you're 
 a wide open target, and that it's best to actually take cover, but be able to see the enemy while 
 your taking cover, and THEN issue the command (s) . That's as good as it can get, but really, once 
 you get the hang of it, you can easily narrow down the command issues to a brief second or two.
 
  
  As for the single player campaign, Close Combat: First to Fight puts you and your four-man team 
 to the test of completing 22 missions. Unlike some military shooters, Close Combat: First to Fight 
 focuses much more on the tactical use of your team rather then running in, guns blazing and then 
 ultimately getting killed. For controlling your team of Marines, you can give them several commands 
 from a simple go order to an order to lay down suppressive fire on a specific piece of environment 
 to cover you or another member of your teams movement. The fire team responds realistically in 
 some cases and subscribes to the Marine tactical set known as RTFA (Ready, Team, Fire, Assist) . 
 You must be careful about your fellow Marines, because each Marine has a different way of completing 
 tasks, and since they have their own 'personality', it's best to find out what they're good at 
 and put them out to complete an objective they are fond of.
  
  Each marine has different types of equipments that are outfitted in order to complete the objectives 
 within the mission. You will play as a nameless team leader who is issued to command a four-man 
 team through the war-torn city. The leader carries the classic M16-A4 with a grenade launcher attachment. 
 The next is the SAW gunner (Squad Automatic Weapon, as they like to call it) and he can also dish 
 out the pain whenever needed with his M249. The Rifleman speaks for himself, and he carries with 
 him, also the M16-A4 (Google it) . The Assistant Gunner guards the rear end of the group, and also 
 carries ammunition and whatnot for the team. He'll also carry a M16-A4 to protect his own self.
 
  
  Enemies within Close Combat: First to Fight will obviously attack you and obviously take any risks 
 and will do anything to get you killed. Your teammates A. I. will help you out on most occasions, 
 but for the other part, you will have to put in some work to get rid of any enemy you encounter 
 along the mission. Your teammates A. I., alone, will try their best to keep themselves alive and 
 will also do whatever tasks necessary to kill off the enemy. It's nice just to spectate them to 
 see what they do and what tactics they use, so you can learn from them if you wish.
  
  The enemy A. I., however, gives out more boneheaded mistakes than your teammates A. I., but it's 
 really not by much, because they still provide a challenge, which is a good thing. The main deterrent 
 in delivering an authentic experience is the enemys propensity to run directly at the team of 
 Marines in a supposed attempt of seeking cover. For some reason, I find it happening only in indoor 
 combat. Other mistakes with the enemy A. I. is that they sometimes fire at you, and then hide for 
 cover, and then they don't appear again until the rest of the group is done with. This might carry 
 on as good since you have one less man to worry about in a huge firefight, but it does become frustrating 
 since you can't get rid of them all in one small battle.
  
  On the good side with the enemy A. I., they use a great tactic to try to get you killed - the ambush. 
 They will use this tactic alot, whenever they are in groups. Even if you clear out a room full 
 of enemies, this doesn't mean it's ACTUALLY cleared out. WIthin a brief second, more enemies will 
 possibly pop out, and you'll ready for more. You need to pay attention to the setting around you, 
 and make sure it's really clear that there are no enemies around before continuing your mission.
 
  
  After completing each mission, you'll be treated to a report, which basically tells you your 'grade', 
 which ranges from 0-100, how many enemies you killed, and how many one hit kills you sequestrated. 
 You and your team will also be handed out medals if you did a fine job during the mission (which 
 is basically getting a high number of kills and the like) .
  
  Now, we move on the multi-player that is stored within Close Combat: First to Fight. There are 
 3 multi-player modes to choose from: Fire Team Arena, Cooperative, and Modified Cooperative. Obviously, 
 with the PC version, you are able to head online and battle it out right away.
  
  Fire Team Arena is simply another word for team deathmatch. You'll be able to join with 7 other 
 players (8 total) and battle it out with other players within the classic team deathmatch scenario. 
 Basically, it's havoc in this mode, since tactics are rarely used, and it turns out into a huge 
 fragfest in a killed or be killed scenario. It's just simple - don't rely in tactics you learned 
 in the single-player campaign. They could possibly help, but more of the time it's basically pointless 
 since the fragging can be quick and deadly.
  
  As for the Cooperative and 'Modified Cooperative' modes, in essence, it's the same thing. Cooperative 
 online is the only way to enjoy cooperative play on the PC, so it's a nice feature that is just 
 downright fun. You'll be treated to the single-player campaign in a different view, which is obviously 
 yhe view of cooperative mode, and you can get alot out of it. It's hard to get away without firing 
 a single bullet, because your teammates will catch on quickly. Although if you keep it standard 
 and provide some help to your teammates and also use tactics at times, you can get some great fun 
 out of Cooperative play for a while.
  
  Close Combat: First to Fight should provide you with around 10-15 hours of the single-player campaign, 
 although it'll definitely ascend with it's online multi-player and cooperative modes. Like always 
 with other FPS's, there is really no reason to go through the single-player campaign again, unless 
 you want some more fun out of it.
  
  Visually, Close Combat: First to Fight looks good, but it'll leave gamers figuring out what Destineer 
 could of done right to upgrade it just a little more. You don't need a strong PC to play this game, 
 because even on an mediocre PC, it can run well enough without any framerate issues. The environment 
 background in Close Combat: First to Fight isn't all that bad, but then again, it also could of 
 been improved. In some areas, you'll notice that the setting can really look dull, but if it doesn't 
 matter to you, it shouldn't really affect the gameplay.
  
  Now many people have complained about this, and I, too, will want to complain. The lighting within 
 this game isn't bad... it's terrible. Shadows of both your teammates and enemies are just simply 
 way-off, and you'll sometimes be relying on the shadows a good amount of times. Like I said, shadows 
 are the main problem. Just don't trust them too often, or you'll find yourself getting killed for 
 simple mistakes. It kind of takes away the realisticness of the game. The only thing keeping Close 
 Combat: First to Fight above average in the graphic's meter is it's soldier models. They look extremely 
 well done, right down to the shoes. They move realistically, which is a huge plus, and it really 
 seems the models had a lot of work put into them.
  
  The audio is quite silent throughout the game, except for the obvious gunshots and command yelling. 
 Don't expect any Halo or Medal of Honor music while playing the game, although it would of been 
 nice to interpose that in there. Other than that, everything within the audio category is great. 
 It's always nice to be in some war-torn city and having the sound cranked up to hear the ambient 
 noises, which is always stress reliving, for some reason.
  
  Again, Close Combat: First to Fight should give you around 10-15 hours of the single-player campaign, 
 which will be fun the first time through. Once you have gotten the training, you can quickly head 
 into the online modes that Close Combat: First to Fight offers. Fire Team Arena, as explained above, 
 along with the rest of the modes, is pretty fun for a little while, but the real thing that should 
 drag you in is the online cooperative play. It's fun, but it just becomes too easy after a while, 
 and you'll be left wanting more afterwards.
  
  Close Combat: First to Fight is an enjoyable game for any gamer looking for another shooter. Sure, 
 it has it's obvious dilemma's, but it shouldn't really stop you from enjoying the intense battles 
 that are within. Here and there, you'll be treated to boneheaded A. I., but when the A. I. is at 
 it's best, you'll find the most fun out of it. Despite it's flaws, Close Combat: First to Fight 
 is an intense gameplay experience that shouldn't be overlooked. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
