-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Clue: Murder at Boddy Mansion
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/puzzle/cluemurderatboddymansion/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Oct 20, 1998
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7.6
Critic Score: 7.6, 7.5 Review (s)
User Score: 7.5, 106 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Hasbro Interactive
Genre: Action
Date:     Sep 30, 1998

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Basically, if you love the board game, you're going to want this version. And if you haven't played 
 the board game, buy this instead. 

 If you've ever played Clue for any length of time, you'll be amazed at how good this translation 
 to the PC really is. In fact, this is probably more fun than playing the board game.  

 If you've never played Clue at all, the basic setup goes like this: Six characters are at the mansion 
 of Mr. Boddy, and through some underhanded means, one of the characters has murdered him. Playing 
 one of the six characters, you move from room to room making suggestions about who killed him with 
 which weapon. The suggested location of the murder is always the room in which you're making the 
 suggestion. Once the suggestion is made, the other characters must show clues to disprove the suggestion 
 if they have any. Through a system of cards, the actual murderer's name, choice of weapon, and 
 location of the crime are chosen from a deck containing all the character names, weapons, and locations. 
 The rest of the cards are handed out randomly to all the characters. When you make a suggestion, 
 anyone disproving it shows you one of his cards that fills in one of the missing pieces of the 
 mystery. By analyzing who's making what suggestions and knowing which cards you and others have, 
 you try to accuse someone of the murder.  

 You might be saying that all this guessing still isn't going to get you excited about playing Clue. 
 Here's where Hasbro Interactive has gone the extra mile. It added a bunch of great shortcut scenes 
 that accompany the suggestions about the murder. You'll be amazed the first time you see Ms. Scarlet 
 whacking someone with a lead pipe the size of Pittsburgh and hear the thud as the metal makes contact 
 with the victim. Playing this game at work is one thing, but you really have to sit at home in 
 a dark room with a couple of friends to get the true feel of murder solving. The cutscenes are 
 different for each character and weapon, so don't think that they're just repeated animations. 
 For a laugh, try suggesting Mrs. White with the rope, and you'll see her wrestle a chair out from 
 under her hanging victim.  

 The other features during gameplay are also worthy of praise. Clue offers full animations of the 
 characters walking from room to room. While this is interesting for a while, you'll probably want 
 to play with the standard overhead view of the board. Along with the animations is a really good 
 soundtrack that includes sounds of the storm outside the mansion and a forbidding butler who calls 
 out each suggestion as it is played.  

 There's really just one problem with the game. The suggestions of the computer players go by so 
 fast, that it's often difficult to follow what's happening. The "autonotes" feature that takes 
 notes as to what cards you've seen doesn't record what suggestions have already been made, so making 
 educated guesses as to which cards people don't have by their suggestions becomes a pen and paper 
 experience.  

 Overall, this is one of the best translations to the PC that Hasbro has ever done. Beyond the simple 
 fault of some extra features that weren't implemented to their best effect, there aren't really 
 many faults with the game. There is one bug that locks the game when a large number of characters 
 are played by the computer, but this happened rarely. Basically, if you love the board game, you're 
 going to want this version. And if you haven't played the board game, buy this instead.    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (5 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: koopatroopa1015
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 29, 2007 1:35 pm PT
Review:  Clue, the board game, makes a title on the PC! Mr. Boddy has been murdered in his mansion! Now 
 you must use clues and your detective skills to find out who committed the crime, where it happened, 
 and what weapon was used. Will the murder go unsolved? Or will you be able to bring justice and 
 put the killer away? It's a detective game maxed out!
  
  It's easy to control and play, but the game itself isn't easy. It will require skill and patience. 
 But it's lots of fun trying to find out who killed Mr. Boddy. It's just like the board game, but 
 put on a PC and made just as exciting. It does get repetitive after a long time of constant play, 
 but an occasional game here and there is always fun.
  
  The graphics are amazing - they're colorful, crystal-clear, and extremely smooth and sharp. It's 
 what we would call "eye candy." The sound - SFX and music both - are quite appealing also. It's 
 definitely worth your time and money. The game is just exciting as the board game and has a lot 
 of fun to offer.
  
  If you were a fan of the board game, you'll like it. If you're new to Clue, you'll like it. I recommend 
 it to everyone.
  
  Here's a good board game that was made into a good computer game. Clue: Murder at Boddy Mansion 
 is an exciting murder mystery game that almost everyone will enjoy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: catbuffalo
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 17, 2007 9:09 am PT
Review:  To be honest i would've given this game a 10 if it had online play. If you REALLY call yourself 
 a retro gamer then take a step into boddy mansion! Yay! It's the same as always board game you 
 knew when you had it in your dusty closet, missing half the cards and pieces. You have the option 
 of playing overview board style or 3d mansion. The 3d mansion can be annoying if you don't have 
 the board memorized. Considering you can only see approximately 7 spaces around you. After playing 
 it a while you can appreciate it. The AI in this is easy, it'd be best to play with other people 
 at home. On advanced mode i only lose maybe 10% of the time. It's mostly because of a good guess 
 on their part or being the suspect and not having much control late game. The latter comes with 
 the territory though. Also a good thing about the gameplay is how you can check off boxes with 
 colors. It also has video of every possible suggestion except for the rooms. You can turn them 
 off if you'd like. There are sound effects like hearing wind blowing by the doors to the outside. 
 If you are looking for a clue game for your computer this is it!
  
  This got an 8.5 based on the fact that it wasn't a rip-off-half-assed flash game you'd expect. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: heatherceana
Rating: 8.4
Date: Dec 25, 2005 2:23 pm PT
Review:  All of the basic elements of the game are true to the original board game. 
  
  There are two modes available to you:
  
  Classic die roll
  No die roll
  
  In both modes, 
 you will choose at least one of the 6 suspects to use as your player piece. You must have at least 
 3 player pieces active to begin a game, so you can either choose more player pieces for other human 
 players or assign the remainder to the computer. I recommend using the novice cpu setting, at least 
 at first. The order of play is always: Miss Scarlet, Col. Mustard, Mrs. White, Mr. Green, Mrs. 
 Peacock, and then Prof. Plum. 
  
  In the Classic die roll mode, each player will "roll" the die to determine how far they may move. 
 You may make a guess either when you enter a room or when you've been pulled into a room (you are 
 pulled into a room when someone else guesses you as the murderer in a different room and your player 
 piece is teleported to said room) . 
  
  (Although the game refers to "guesses" as accusations, your "accusation" is made when you press 
 on the hand-cuffs. This signals your definitive statement of who, with what, and where.)
  
  In the No die roll mode, you have 9 moves you may use per turn. No one can make a guess on the 
 first turn, so there is no point going into a room during the first turn. A guess will use 3 moves, 
 as will going through a secret passage or making an accusation. If you move into a room with less 
 than 3 moves left, you cannot make a guess that turn, so you are usually better served to stop 
 outside the doorway and end your turn. If you are pulled into a room (as described above) , you 
 may make a guess, as you will still have 9 moves when your turn comes. 
  
  In both modes:
  Making a guess will end your turn, unless you wish to make an accusation. You 
 will have a note pad available and can turn-on the auto-notes. Auto-notes will cause all cards 
 shown to you, plus the cards you are holding, to be marked-off on your pad. The color of the player 
 holding the card will be displayed next to the person, place or thing on the card (ie red for Miss 
 Scarlet, yellow for Col. Mustard, etc.) . There are a variety of symbols available in the 2nd and 
 3rd columns. You might want to develop a system of tracking when a player is unable to disprove 
 the elements of an accusation when playing with only 3 active player pieces. 
  
  For Example:
  Let's say that you are playing Col. Mustard and Mr. Green guess Miss Scarlet with 
 the rope in the Hall. Mrs. Peacock will be first given the chance to disprove this (as she comes 
 next after Mr. Green in the order of play) . If it says that she cannot disprove, then you can note 
 that she does not have any of these cards. This can help you eliminate elements much more quickly. 
 Or if you have 2 of the three things guessed and Mrs. Peacock can disprove, then you know that 
 she has the third one. Note this on your pad with a particular symbol. 
  
  Multi-player:
  
  You can try to play multi-player on one computer, but it is a bit tedious. I would recommend 
 separate computers if you decide to try the multi-player.
  
  My Rating:
  
  I did not give these computerized board games higher ratings, because I feel that a really great 
 game should:
  
  Be flexible in the course of actions available
  Be reasonably challenging without over-whelming
  Provide a fair variety to hold the interest
 
  Be at least somewhat educational (even if only culturally, historically, etc.)
  Lastly, it should have good graphics and sound quality.
  
  Logic is what you develop with ALL 
 of the Clue games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rudyfan04
Rating: 7.6
Date: Aug 18, 2005 12:11 am PT
Review:  This is a very fun game. Like I just said IF you can't find 2 other people to play with you, this 
 is the second best thing. Instead of just regular little pieces you move your guy, who is shaped 
 like your character. The rooms inside are also actually vary detailed. It also has a high replay 
 value so you aren't stuck always playing the board game. Even if you do have some friends wanting 
 to play clue you can play on the computer too. Although it is a little awkward when it is their 
 turn you kinda have to look away from the screen. But overall this is a very fun game that can 
 be enjoyed by all ages. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BuryMe
Rating: 7.4
Date: Feb 10, 2006 10:10 pm PT
Review:  I've found that most board games for the pc aren't usually that good. It always seems to be the 
 pc that gets the good rolls, or the better cards. That trend has just ended with Clue.
  
  If you've ever played Clue before, you'll know how it works. You and your friends try to figure 
 out who killed Mr. Body in which room of his mansion, and with what weapon.
  
  The compuuter version is no different. All of the same rules apply. 
  
  After you've rolled 
 the die and moved into a room, you can make a suggestion. Once you've put in your guess, you see 
 a video of the charectar guessed using that weapon. Then your opponents have to start showing you 
 cards based on what you guessed. Once you've figured out who commit the crime based on which cards 
 you've seen, you can make an accusation. If you're right, you win! That's all there is to it.
 
  
  A cool mode that they put in was the no die roll. Instead of rolling a die, you get 9 moves to 
 use however you want. When you're walking around, it's one move per square, when you use a secret 
 passage, it costs you 6 squares, and when you suggest or accuse it costs you 3. This mode can really 
 change the course of the game.
  
  You can also choose between 2 views. One is a top down view like you would get when you're playing 
 the board game, and another is the 3D mode. When you use this, you will see you charectar walk 
 from room to room. While it's kind of cool, it can get kind of hard to see where you are.
  
  Unfortunately, the game probably won't last you as long as the real board game would, because 
 of the AI. After a little while, you'll begin to realise that the computer uses exactly the same 
 strategy each time. What I've noticed is, when you're playing on easy, the computer will figure 
 out the preson and weapon almost imediately, and it keeps suggesting them as it moves from room 
 to room. Becuase it does that, you can correcly assume that they are both right, so all you have 
 to fo is fighre out the room.
  
  The graphics are pretty good. Everything is clear, but the animation of the walking people can 
 be a little bit choppy. Other than that, the pixles are kind of big in the movie sequences, but 
 other than that, it all looks really good.
  
  The sound is also pretty good. As you're playing, there is some jazz music playing in the background 
 that really adds some feeling to the game. Also, when it's you're turn, the buttler will announce 
 it. He has the perfect groggy voice for the game.
  
  The classic board game Clue was easily made better on the computer. The game maintains it's fun 
 and gives you three difficulty levels to increase the replay value. This game is deffinately worth 
 your time. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
