-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Codename: Outbreak
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/action/codenameoutbreak/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Nov 29, 2001
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 5.4
Critic Score: 6.3, 19 Review (s)
User Score: 6.1, 118 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Virgin Interactive
Developer: GSC Game World
Genre: Sci-Fi First-Person...
Date:     Nov 24, 2001
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Aside from a few novelty options, Codename: Outbreak is an uninspired first-person shooter that 
 really doesn't stack up against the glut of similar games currently out on the market. 

  Codename: Outbreak is a first- and third-person shooter that has few redeeming qualities beyond 
 a handful of initially notable options that ultimately turn out to be novelties. Previously known 
 as Venom, the game has been in development for a while at GSC Game World, the creator of Cossacks: 
 European Wars, and perhaps it would have been better received had it been released earlier. But 
 as it is, Codename: Outbreak fails to stack up against the current crop of similar games.      
      Codename: Outbreak doesn't look like much.    

  The game takes place on Earth in the not-so-distant future. A passing meteor shower has peppered 
 the planet with a mysterious alien life-form that, when hatched, attaches itself onto the back 
 of people's necks and takes control of them. If that sounds like the plot of every corny Hollywood 
 movie that involves mysterious alien life-forms, that's because it pretty much is. You assume the 
 role of a leader of a small band of military operatives who've been tasked with the duty of cleaning 
 up this infestation. This plot progresses through uninspired cutscenes that involve little more 
 than a floating camera that pans around your characters as you receive your mission briefing, although 
 there are two high-quality prerendered scenes that play at the beginning and at the end of the 
 game, respectively.   

  Before jumping into each mission, you have the option of choosing to play as any two of your six 
 initial operatives, each of whom has different ratings for characteristics that include speed, 
 reaction time, stamina, and maximum health. You can even outfit your party with one of several 
 suits of armor. These have an additional effect on your overall physical attributes, since each 
 suit will affect your running speed and has varying bonuses for protection against different types 
 of weapons. However, in practice you'll be hard pressed to note any real difference between any 
 of the armor or soldier attributes. In between each mission you can also select the types of weapons 
 that your two characters will carry onto the field. It's interesting to note that while there are 
 eight weapon types in the game -- including sniper rifles, lasers, and shotguns -- there are only a 
 handful of physical weapons to choose from. In what's probably a first in the genre, Codename: 
 Outbreak's different weapons actually share the same 3D model, but they have a rotating barrel 
 to accommodate the different munitions. So one weapon might have the capabilities of a shotgun, 
 a submachine gun, and a sniper rifle, while another will have a grenade launcher, a shotgun, and 
 a flare dispenser. It's a novel idea, but it's hardly believable, as it's hard to imagine a single 
 weapon that can be used, for instance, as a mine layer  and  a laser. Also, the fact that many 
 of the weapons overlap in some of their capabilities will probably leave you a little bit confused. 
   

  There are about a dozen single-player levels in the game, though they can be played either during 
 the day or at night, and they all involve standard conventions of first-person shooters, like killing 
 everything with a pulse and finding the right keys to open the right doors. In fact, at one point, 
 your mission briefing even says that a certain set of "gates are surely closed, and the keys are 
 likely held by security." There are certain elements of stealth involved in some of the missions, 
 particularly the night missions, but your teammates always seem to go in with guns blazing, blowing 
 any measure of surprise you had on the enemies. The ensuing firefights are nothing special and 
 often result in your enemies standing face to face with you and your teammate, guns blazing. Sometimes, 
 these soldiers will run back and forth along a straight line in a shallow attempt at seeking cover, 
 but more often than not, they'll resort to the stand-in-place approach. Similarly, your teammates' 
 pathfinding is a joke, especially in indoor environments, where they will  always  get stuck in 
 a doorframe or around a corner. At times, the only way to overcome these problems is to switch 
 players and execute the maneuver of navigating a 90-degree turn by yourself.           There's 
 little to recommend about the game over other recent shooters.    

  This same level of mediocrity can also be found in Outbreak's other qualities. The game's voice 
 acting flirts with being outright bad. All the characters in the game, from the soldiers to the 
 briefing officers who constantly update your objectives within each mission, speak in a complete 
 monotone and pay no heed to punctuation whatsoever. Most of the game's other audio effects are 
 largely forgettable as well -- the gun effects lack any visceral punch to them, and ambient effects 
 are scarce. The visuals are no more impressive, either. The characters are made up of a low number 
 of polygons, and their animations, while smooth, are nothing special. On the other hand, the environments 
 themselves are fairly expansive, and strangely enough, the trees look especially good. Unfortunately, 
 everything else is made up of muddy textures whose seams are easily discernable. There are also 
 some serious mip-mapping issues that are immediately evident -- you can see the exact point toward 
 the horizon where the textures go from very fuzzy to not so fuzzy.   

  About the best thing that can be said about Codename: Outbreak is that it comes with a suggested 
 retail price that's less than that of most new games. It does have four multiplayer options that 
 let up to 16 players compete against each other at once, and one of those options is a cooperative 
 mode, a feature that more first-person shooters should adopt. The game has a built-in game server 
 browser, although no one could be found playing. And despite its low price, better shooters such 
 as Serious Sam: The First Encounter (which also has co-op play) can be had for less. Aside from 
 a few novelty options, Codename: Outbreak is an uninspired first-person shooter that really doesn't 
 stack up against the glut of similar games currently out on the market.   

    Editor's note 12/17/01 : The original review was based off of the German retail version of the 
 game, and has since been amended with reference to the different audio found in the US version. 
 
      
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (3 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: majesticcryx
Rating: 6.5
Date: Aug 28, 2007 8:31 am PT
Review:  Take System Shock 2, mix liberally with Ghost Recon, top it off with a dash of Aliens vs. Predator, 
 and then add a healthy portion of suck. The result is Codename: Outbreak, a budget tactical 3D 
 shooter from the newly resurrected Virgin Interactive.
  
  It starts with the basic story ingredients: Aliens  potentially copyright-infringing face-huggerserr, 
 skull-huggers  have attached themselves to personnel at science stations who were researching 
 a recent rain of meteorites. Its up to your two-man squad to investigate and neutralize the outbreak 
 over the course of 10 missions.
  
  Developed in Ukraine, this game has some of the worst translations and voice-acting heard outside 
 a console RPG. (Imagine, if you will, Prof. Hawking with a Russian accent, only not as emotional.) 
 The missions themselves are competent, and occasionally even fun (for example, I like that you 
 can select to play during the day or night) , but the game itself doesnt quite seem finished. Its 
 buggy, the squad path-finding is woefully unreliable, and the graphics alternate between decent 
 and Nintendo 64ish (which is bad) . At least you get some standard multiplayer options, exclusive 
 multiplayer maps, and a two-player co-op story mode.
  
  Codename is $20, so its true that you get what you pay for. But since it liberally cribs from 
 better games that are now selling for $20 or less themselves, youd be a fool not to check them 
 out first. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thrasher505
Rating: 7.5
Date: Aug 19, 2007 1:59 pm PT
Review:  lets start with the basics. the graphics are ok but not great. same with the sound, the animations, 
 the weapon (s) . overall this game won't blow your mind or break any new ground. however, there are 
 some nice factors to mention. its nice having a real inventory in an fps for once. kind of rpg 
 style. you can move stuff around and have a weight limit to carry various items from health kits 
 to ammo to door keys and such. and anyone who does play rpg's would appreciate the ability to loot 
 bodies for such items. i like that you choose your 2 man team for each map from a few different 
 soldiers, each of whom have somewhat varying proficiencies. these also improve as they participate 
 in more missions. because of that fact you will probably find that you just use the same 2 guys 
 because after a couple of missions they'll be significantly better than all the other choices. 
 but its still quite nice to see their accuracy level going up after every successful mission. its 
 also nice to select your loadout before the missions. this involves being conscious of the weight 
 of your armour and ammo as well as choosing which model of the swiss army knife style gun your 
 going to take into the fray. the gun i found to be pretty cool actually. a rotating barrel system 
 enables the gun to fire all sorts of different ammo. the lower end ones won't fire rockets or some 
 other ammo but higher end versions of the gun become available as you go and then you can fire 
 things like rockets which become quite necessary when you encounter tanks. anyway, like i said 
 at the start its not gonna be the most impressive game you've ever played technically speaking 
 but i found it to have a solid core of fun gameplay that has kept me reinstalling it every few 
 months to do it all again. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MisterHarryZ
Rating: 2.4
Date: Sep 9, 2004 8:57 pm PT
Review:  I picked this up from Dixons for 5, thinking it looked like a good game. I played it for ten minutes 
 and wanted my fiver back. The game is downright terrible. 
  
  The basic idea is, you team up with another guy (who, incidentally, has the exact same model as 
 you) , and destroy aliens in several vaguely realistic levels. There is practically no AI, the graphics 
 suck, and the sound is lousy. 
  
  There are also a few bugs - in one stage I had to climb a ladder, and was attacked by a little 
 jumping alien (clearly a rip-off of Half-Life's facecrab) . Upon dispatching it, I found that its 
 corpse was STUCK on the ladder, with no means of removing it. For some unknown reason, I couldn't 
 climb through the floating corpse, so I had to restart the level. Unbelievable.
  
  Do not play this game, even for a fiver. This is vastly inferior to other shoot-em-ups such as 
 Deus Ex, Half-Life, Delta Force... even Doom. If you want real excitement, go play one of these 
 games instead.
  
  Codename: Outbreak is dead on arrival. Avoid. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
