-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Codename Panzers: Cold War
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/strategy/codenamepanzerscoldwar/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Stays true to the franchise's roots.
 Straightforward design makes this suitable for RTS beginners.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Derivative, shallow gameplay.
 Not many options when it comes to unit selection.
 A few performance problems.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Mar 24, 2009
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 5.5
Critic Score: 6.4, 9 Review (s)
User Score: 6.7, 46 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Atari
Developer: Stormregion
Genre: Real-Time Strategy
Date:     Mar 10, 2009 &raquo;  
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
The latest addition to the Codename Panzers lineup is too straightforward and simplistic. 

  While Germany's estimable Panzer tanks may have gone the way of the dodo at the end of World 
 War II, that little fact doesn't seem to matter much to InnoGlow (formerly Stormregion) . The developer 
 has pushed history under the bus with Codename Panzers: Cold War, the third release in the series 
 of real-time strategy games and the first to take the franchise beyond the war that gave us the 
 A-bomb and the Andrews Sisters. But an offbeat name is the least of the problems that gamers have 
 to deal with here. Formulaic design and tactical limitations make the game a mostly frustrating 
 experience, even if you couldn't care less about the historical accuracy of the game's title.  
 

           The ability to call in jet support is a nice plus that didn't exist back when Codename 
 Panzers actually featured Panzers.      

  Veterans of either of the two previous Codename Panzers games won't find many surprises here, as 
 the game is a straight-up rehash of the 2002 and 2004 predecessors. The only differences are in 
 the storyline, which has been moved forward a few years. Instead of once more refighting the Second 
 World War on those oh-so-familiar battlefields, you now scrap it up through an alternate-history 
 Cold War. In this reality, the Soviet blockade of Berlin in 1949 turns into a hot war. Sooner than 
 you can say  do svidaniya  to the uneasy peace that has held since 1945, Soviet troops and tanks 
 are rolling into West Germany, and World War III is under way. The four-chapter solo campaign features 
 slices of this conflict from across central Europe. You first guide Yank NATO troops under Lt. 
 Douglas Kirkland and then take charge of forces under the command of German WWII veteran Hans Von 
 Groebel. Two- to eight-man multiplayer is also offered via GameSpy online and LAN, with game modes 
 such as team deathmatch and domination.  

  Gameplay also sticks close to the franchise essentials. Battles remain fairly small-scale, especially 
 in comparison to a typical RTS game, where dozens if not hundreds of units face off in battles. 
 Here, you generally control no more than a handful of tanks, companies of soldiers, and APCs at 
 a time, along with a few special locations, such as helicopter pads where you order reinforcements 
 and medical tents that can mass-heal troops. This keeps things simple, making the game ideal for 
 a beginner RTS gamer or an old hand who likes to play something straightforward every now and then. 
 Difficulty levels support this, too. Easy is actually easy, to the point where you can breeze through 
 missions without losing more than one or two units, while hard and ultra are murderously challenging. 
 This is a welcome change from many other WWII-era RTS games, which seem to delight in punishing 
 gamers with insane difficulty even on the easiest settings.  

  But it all plays out way too formulaically. Campaign missions offer cliched WWII RTS objectives, 
 such as protecting allied convoys, destroying bases, defending locations for set periods of time, 
 and so forth. Settings also include a lot of old standards, such as rustic villages, railway yards, 
 and rainy forests. Unit selection is limited. You generally have just a few choices to make when 
 loading up for a mission. Mostly, you get only the basics. So your choices are limited to troops 
 like SMG squads, bazooka teams, and mine-clearing engineers, and a few types of tanks with various 
 weaponry and armor. Units can be tricked out with tweaks like AA guns and flamethrowers, although 
 there isn't much in the way of customization. There is little room to experiment with unit deployment, 
 anyway. Most levels involve direct assaults up roads or pathways. Every time you need to use a 
 particular unit's special ability, it's glaringly obvious what you need to do. If, for example, 
 you receive an emergency airdrop of engineers, you know right away that there must be a minefield 
 nearby that they need to sweep.  

  Lack of choice keeps everything straight and to the point, although this also means that you start 
 experiencing deja vu after just a few scenarios due to all the repetition. All you really have 
 to learn is the importance of healing and repairing. If you back up frontline assault troops with 
 a squad of medics, you have instant healing on demand during battles. If you send out an APC or 
 two with every tank column, you can repair damage dealt to your armor on the fly. There are limits 
 to how much can be fixed up, of course, but the repairing/healing range is so extreme that you 
 can situate medics and APCs well behind the fray and still provide loads of support to the poor 
 suckers taking direct fire. This almost gives the game a sci-fi vibe, because it seems absurd that 
 assistance can be rendered from such a long way off in battles taking place during the late 1940s 
 and early 1950s. Healing and repairing appear to be immediately transported to units in need, courtesy 
 of crosses and metal plates that fly through the air between units. It looks like they're beaming 
 the help over, which doesn't give the game much of a WWII or Cold War feel.  

           Medics being able to throw red crosses onto wounded comrades from long distances looks 
 weird and is a little too sci-fi for a 1940s/1950s RTS.      

  Visuals and sound provide more atmosphere, albeit at a price. This is a big-time performance pig, 
 even when you're running the game with one of the most powerful video cards on the planet. While 
 missions are real lookers, with great fire and smoke special effects and tons of detail in unit 
 and building explosions, all of these goodies routinely drop the frame rate into the single digits 
 even on a video card like a top-of-the-line 4870 X2. At least the frame rate never gets so bad 
 that the action stutters. Missions are always playable, although in a slo-mo fashion. So this can 
 be lived with, if you have a killer rig. Playing the game with a system that meets only the base 
 system requirements probably wouldn't be a smart idea. Audio is also impressive, due to a lot of 
 bombast that makes combat seem chaotic even when you've got just a couple of squads shooting it 
 out onscreen. The only annoyance here is that too many people talk at the same time during battles. 
 Sure, this is more realistic than one guy piping up for an entire battalion and giving an order 
 acknowledgment. But having a dozen soldiers scream, groan, yell threats, make smart-aleck quips, 
 and say yessir at the same time doesn't seem like much of an improvement.  

  Panzers may roll on into the 1950s in Codename Panzers: Cold War, but the game itself too often 
 grinds to a halt thanks to a reliance on simplicity that makes it too predictable. Only the alternative-history 
 angle is of any real interest and solely to better-dead-than-red types who think we should have 
 fought the commies right away instead of waiting four decades for them to implode economically. 
     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (4 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: mikeCat
Rating: 5.5
Date: Apr 11, 2009 8:47 am PT
Review:  I was eagerly looking forward to the release of this game, not least because I am getting so tired 
 of an apparently endless stream of World War II RTS games. The premise of an RTS game that depicts 
 the outset of World War III was quite attractive. Unfortunately, the game was a disappointment 
 at a number of levels.
  
  I found the game to be quite playable and the graphics were acceptable. In fact, the graphics were 
 one of the few things I found that were superior in this game to the two earlier Code Name: Panzers 
 games. It was easy to play the game. If anyone has played the earlier entries in this franchise, 
 they will be able to plunge into this one with little delay. However, I was disappointed in the 
 limited number of scenarios that are provided in the game. I was disappointed in the number and 
 type of units that I could choose from in the run-up to any given scenario. I was disappointed 
 that there was no Soviet campaign. I would also have liked to see a British/French/NATO campaign 
 too. Alternatively, a full-up German campaign in which a defeated and underequipped West German 
 army has to fight the Soviets so soon after World War II would have been very interesting. The 
 other games in the franchise had three campaigns. I would have expected this one to follow that 
 part of the Code Name: Panzers franchise as well. 
  
  In short, I was disappointed that this game was not nearly as enjoyable as the earlier games and 
 I was very chagrined that the developers took an interesting and fairly unused premise (the outset 
 of World War III) and then produced such a mediocre game. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: hawkfirestorm
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 3, 2009 6:07 pm PT
Review:  I can't understand why people knock this one down at all.
  
  In these days of half baked releases it nice to see a game that does exactly what it says on the 
 tin.
  
  While for some this game might not be the most ground breaking game to ever have been released 
 it does what it set out to do well.
  
  Those that have enjoyed the series won't be disappointed with the game, while not Supreme commander 
 in any respect it's a good crafted game, good graphics and stable although some complain of sound 
 issues I've not had any issues at all with this title.
  
  The game is pretty well polished though I haven't tried multiplayer yet the single player campaign 
 is enjoyable to play.
  
  I've given the game a 8 not because it's so much because it's ground breaking but because it's 
 actually does what it set out to do, it's been coded well and has polish and is a worthy addition 
 to the series, although perhaps it's not as good perhaps as Men of war, it's definately a good 
 time filler.
  
  It's one of those games that just slip under the radar while it may not be breathtaking it's a 
 good Solid RTS with good visuals and good gameplay. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Krunchy-Klown
Rating: 4
Date: Mar 27, 2009 1:28 pm PT
Review:  Not sure why I bought this.. maybe because I got tired of wating for Relic to release Tales of Valor 
 for COH but I did and I'm pretty disappointed.
  
  Had this game come out 5-6 years ago it might be a different story but save your money for something 
 better.
  
  First of all , in multiplayer, you only start out with 4-5 tanks, 2 artillery, a repair truck and 
 a few infantry. The infantry are way too tiny in my opinion.
  There's really not much to this game strategy wise either. (I'm only reviewing the multiplayer, 
 the campaign I hardly played, I got bored right away) . You rush some of your units to radar stations 
 , factories or prestige points and try to hold them. If you hold a factory or barracks, you can 
 create reinforcements.
  
  I was disappointed in the terrain/buildings/trees/cover etc. etc. I thought the 8 player maps would 
 be bigger too. I guess I was hoping for a game similar to Sudden Strike 2 but this game doesn't 
 even come close to that one either. 
  (Yes, I know SS3 is out but... no way am I getting that dated POS)
  
  Anyway, one good thing 
 about this game is it made me aggpreciate COH even more 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SWATMAN4
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 26, 2009 6:04 pm PT
Review:  I'm a WWII nut and though I have not played the original two Panzers, I was still excited to get 
 this. Controls are simple for new comers like me and the graphics... OMG, other people might disagree 
 but the graphics seem to be a little more top notch than Company of Heroes. Don't get me wrong 
 but the terrain and vehicles seem to just be better. That is my opinion as a CoH and Panzer fan. 
 The Cold War is definitely the most unused period of history because of the lack of real conflict. 
 The ficticious setting and events make that help. I just kinda wish the characters would actually 
 talk like during the briefings than use text cards on the left side of the screen. The sound issues 
 are probably the most fixable of its few troubles. I'll hear a platoon of infantry shooting then 
 only hear like if just one gun was shooting out of the bunch. I got used to it. It's not a problem 
 like if a tank is blown up by a rock hitting it or something. I have a 8800 GTX Nvidia GeForce 
 and even this game slows me down just a bit. My computer has a hard time with large, beginning 
 conflicts, but as they progress the FPS starts to return to normal. I recommend this game to everyone, 
 even though that's ironic because you need a damn good machine to run this thing at full. Codename 
 Panzers: Cold War is a title worth getting for your money. You don't get the feeling you got ripped 
 off but more of a "Wow a game I can play for fun and not worry about cheap online people but a 
 'me' game." make your own saying, i'm not very good at it :p 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
