-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Codename: Panzers, Phase Two
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/strategy/codenamepanzersphasetwo/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Excellent real-time strategy mechanics.
 Destructible environments.
 Multiple tactical solutions for most problems.
 Solid multiplayer, though it requires more options.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Graphics engine starting to show its age.
 Desert environments are bland and uninteresting.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Aug  8, 2005
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8.3
Critic Score: 8.0, 35 Review (s)
User Score: 8.6, 566 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: cdv Software
Developer: Stormregion
Genre: Historic Real-Time...
Date:     Jul 25, 2005
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
It's clear that Stormregion didn't need to fix much in Phase One, and so Phase Two plays it safe 
 by offering more of the same. 

  Last year's Codename: Panzers, Phase One was an excellent and innovative real-time strategy game 
 set amid everyone's favorite global struggle (and not to mention game setting) , World War II. Unfortunately, 
 it had the ill luck of shipping in the middle of one of the greatest months for strategy games 
 in recent years, which resulted in it being lost in all the heavyweight competition. So much so 
 that we nominated it as one of the best games that no one played last year. Still, Phase One was 
 a hit in its native Europe, and with a name like that, you knew that a Phase Two had to be in the 
 offing.  

          Phase Two is more of the same kind of fun, enjoyable, destructible gameplay that we enjoyed 
 in Phase One.     

  Codename: Panzers is a tactical-style real-time strategy series, which means that you don't have 
 to mess around with resource gathering, base building, or unit production. Instead, the focus is 
 wholly on guiding a core group of military units and blowing large chunks of Europe and North Africa 
 off the map. Like Phase One, Phase Two is divided into three distinctly different campaigns. In 
 this case, you get to play as the Italians in North Africa (an oft overlooked subject in games) , 
 the Americans in Sicily and Italy, and the Yugoslav partisans. Once again, you'll follow a core 
 group of hero characters as they wind their way through their respective campaigns, and you'll 
 get to read their journals, as well as watch them in various cutscenes. Hungarian developer Stormregion 
 employed a couple of Hollywood writers to improve the narrative in Phase Two, and while the story 
 is stronger than in the original game (with a few interesting twists along the way) , it's also 
 a bit corny in places, too. And if you didn't play Phase One, don't worry; the narratives are stand-alone, 
 which means that it isn't necessary to have played the original to understand what's going on. 
 Though if you have played it before, then you'll see familiar faces drop in for cameos during the 
 game.  

  One of the nice things about the mission design in Codename: Panzers is that there are usually 
 multiple solutions for every situation. If you're tasked with taking a town, you can try a costly 
 frontal assault. However, a bit of patience and scouting means that you can discover a side trail 
 that offers less resistance into the town. You start with a core group of units that gain experience 
 over time, thus becoming more capable. This results in you actually caring about whether your men 
 survive or not, because it's far more valuable to have a handful of elite units than a bunch of 
 green ones. You can then use the prestige you gain during a mission to requisition new units or 
 to upgrade existing ones, which means you can take an elite tank crew and plop them in a powerful 
 new tank, making them even more lethal and giving you a stronger connection to them. After all, 
 it really sucks to see one of your elite tank crews vaporize before your eyes.  

  Once again, your units are divided into three classes: tanks, artillery, and infantry. However, 
 as with Phase One, tanks remain the king of the battlefield in Phase Two. And if we have one criticism, 
 it's that all you need for the Allied and Axis campaigns is a strong armored force, as well as 
 some repair and ammunition resupply vehicles in order to get through the campaigns. Infantry remains 
 a distant afterthought, simply because they're relatively useless in those campaigns. Yes, you 
 can garrison infantry inside buildings, but structures are few and far between in the deserts of 
 North Africa. You can't crush exposed infantry under your tanks' treads, but the infantry isn't 
 really powerful enough to bother with, anyway. It only matters in the partisan campaign, where 
 infantry plays a bigger role, and then the game takes on a different feel, as it's more about battling 
 building to building in Yugoslav towns and villages and skulking in the wilderness.  

          Night battles are a new feature in Phase Two, which makes exploding tanks look even nicer. 
     

  We've always felt that Codename: Panzers is sort of like a real-time strategy game with cool war 
 game elements in it, and Phase Two doesn't do anything to change this. For example, facing is important 
 in this game, as vehicles have different armor ratings on their sides and rear. Obviously, it's 
 far easier to kill a tank if you can get behind it than trying to punch through its thicker, frontal 
 armor. And if you need to kill a tank, you actually need a weapon that can hurt it, like a bazooka 
 or another tank. You can't mass infantry machine gunfire and whittle down the tank's strength bar, 
 like you do in so many other real-time strategy games. (But infantry can "cook" a tank with flamethrowers 
 and Molotov cocktails, forcing the crew to abandon the tank when it gets too hot.) In addition, 
 you're also allocated some off-board assets prior to each mission, mainly in the form of artillery 
 strikes and air support. You have to ration these assets carefully, and they can have a devastating 
 effect if used at the decisive moment.     

  Aside from the absurdly short line-of-sight distances that your units have, we really like the 
 fog of war in Codename: Panzers. The game drops icons on the map indicating things like approaching 
 sounds. An icon of tank treads gives you warning of incoming tanks, or a boot icon means infantry 
 are running toward you. A new icon in Phase Two is for headlights, as night battles are now incorporated 
 into the game. This makes an interesting trade-off, because you can turn off your vehicles' lights 
 so they can "sneak" up on an enemy position, but at the cost of decreased visual range for you. 
 When battle erupts, its wise to turn the lights back on, otherwise you won't see the enemy. The 
 lights themselves create a nice visual effect, but we must admit that they can take a toll on the 
 frame rate.  

          There are multiple solutions in each mission. Here, you can try a frontal assault, or simply 
 call in heavy bombers to nail this artillery position.     

  The artificial intelligence in the game is pretty good, though there are a few pathfinding issues 
 at times, particularly when you try to send your units through the narrow streets of a town, or 
 try to guide them up a winding road. Still, your units are smart enough to engage passing enemies 
 while on the move, which is an improvement from the original game. The enemy AI is also a fair 
 opponent, though for the most part it relies on you to trigger its response by closing on its position. 
 Once you finish the single-player game, you can tackle the skirmish and multiplayer modes, and 
 these can be more enjoyable than the single-player game, as you're not constrained by having to 
 accomplish objectives. Instead, it's just pure combat, as you attempt to maneuver on the battlefield 
 and hit your opponent where he's weakest. The multiplayer mode supports up to six players, though 
 once again, there aren't a lot of options in terms of number of maps or multiplayer modes. Phase 
 Two ships with domination, team, and mission modes.  

  The graphics engine itself is mainly unchanged from Phase One, and it's a great-looking engine, 
 even if it is beginning to show its age. And you'll not find many real-time strategy games that 
 pack the amount of detail that's in Phase Two, from the realistic way that tanks and vehicles move 
 about (you can see them roll on their suspensions) to the incredibly destructible environments 
 (you can knock down buildings, trees, power lines, and more) . And that's one of the main reasons 
 why we like this series, as villages and towns actually  look  war torn after you're done with 
 them. With that said, the game suffers from the problem that virtually every other RTS game that 
 has desert environments suffers from, which is that the desert levels are unattractive. For the 
 most part, they're a featureless, bland mess of orange, brown, and yellow. It's not until the game 
 shifts to Italy and Yugoslavia do you start getting more interesting, and appealing, environments. 

          The voice acting has improved, mainly by adding the talents of Peter Weller, the original 
 Robocop.     

  The audio in the series remains excellent, from the squeal of tank treads to the nice, distant 
 booming sound of heavy artillery, though Phase Two does garner some cool points for casting Peter 
 "Robocop" Weller to voice one of the game's lead characters. The rest of the voice acting varies, 
 as there are some downright embarrassing Italian accents in the game.  

  It's clear that Stormregion didn't need to fix much in Phase One, and so Phase Two plays it safe 
 by offering more of the same. But in the case of Codename: Panzers, "more of the same" still translates 
 into some fun and beautiful destruction. Hopefully, this time more people will take notice, because 
 the Codename: Panzers gameplay remains fun and enjoyable, and this is an entertaining real-time 
 strategy series to dive into.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (12 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: jpnelson82
Rating: 5
Date: Oct 12, 2008 12:12 am PT
Review:  The first time you play and probably the second time as well you're busy just looking at the sheer 
 beauty of the units. Tanks look like tanks, and the depth and breadth of units available is astounding, 
 the game has SdKfz  T-34/75's, IS-2's, Churchill's and more. 
 About the time you finish staring at the units the OPFOR shows up and cleans your clock easily. 
 It's very easy to get defeated in this game and hard to secure victory because you really need 
 to be in multiple places at once telling one unit to throw grenades (no one does anything automatically 
 in this game) and then on the other side of the map to an M1 ATG telling them to shoot, or move 
 here or there and then call in an air strike, it requires a massive amount of tactical awareness 
 and quick thinking, and a quick PC to handle all the changing. The MP has some problems with the 
 clock, which never stays at a normal pace, it's constantly speeding up so the OPFOR smashes you 
 before you've had a thought about defense. It's a challenge for the player and the PC, but a feast 
 of eye candy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lobsterbushcrab
Rating: 9.1
Date: Mar 28, 2007 7:29 am PT
Review:  this games is great but it sux that the phase 3 came will not come to life as promised.
  
  other then that the game is fantastic. the graphics a good not great anymore but still cool. i 
 like the fact that every unit needs ammo it make the game more realistic also the limited air support 
 works too. i cant really fault the game in any way. but i find the euro campaign better. But all 
 in all its a great game RTS fans will love it as the missions are different and fun. Other then 
 that I say buy the game if u still can find it lol 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jaydee00003
Rating: 9.3
Date: Feb 19, 2007 9:09 am PT
Review:  this game is itte i liked it pretty much... but thers were only about 20 maps and thats not alot... there 
 were like 2 partisan maps that i liked and the reast was itte 2... we need more maps and i really 
 wanted 2 have more partisan maps 2... i liked 2 play the first 2 partisan maps cuz it have alot 
 of challenges and adventures which mad the first 2 partisan maps good that the rest of the maps 
 didn't... but it worth buy it if u like 2d  
 is the more than 100 words? buy buy buy buy buy buy buy buy buy buy buy buy buy buy buy buy buy 
 buy buy buy buy buy it it it it it it it it it it it it it it it it it it it it it it it it it 
 it it it it it it 
::::::

::::::
UserName: markplaska
Rating: 8.8
Date: May 31, 2006 11:15 pm PT
Review:  Having played the first game i was eagerly awaiting the realese of the new panzers, im glad to 
 write that i enjoyed it alot, the missions are good and varied, the graphics good the sound good.
 
  But what i really enjoyed was the immersive nature of the game, u want to finish it u want to 
 get to the next mission.
  I got stuck on the last mission for the axis for about six motnhs, i was bored so i decided to 
 start playing the game again, it that replaylabilty that i really thing is good thing to have in 
 a game.
  yeah some people will say it alot like the first one , thats true but so is MGS, and the new extra 
 touches (i. e Night mode) and good varation to an awesome game.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: reomute3
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 28, 2006 9:45 pm PT
Review:  superb nothing else like it. just great if your looking for a game for your birthday id consider 
 this game Codename Panzers Phase II be good for santa and he might put it in your stocking, get 
 a good grade on your report card ask your parents to get it for you save your alowence too get 
 it buy it on eBay or work for some old ladie for some cash for it, its perfect for any computer 
 with at least 1gig of rame with sound video and graghics cards: at ease soldier were at war with 
 the nazis. but sir why are we at war, Hittler is gay and he touchs himself at night, eh sweet, for 
 mother russia my commrades dont turn your backs on her 
::::::

::::::
UserName: uyg091481
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 22, 2006 12:43 pm PT
Review:  The King tiger is at the best tank at the time !!! the only tank which was better then the king 
 tiger was JS-2 .. the sherman are pathic tanks and cannot deal the panther , kingtiger , Jadtiger 
 , tiger and stug ... Overall the tanks in both the gamescodename panzers phase one and two are 
 in detail !!!! 
  
  Execellent graphic !!!!!
  .. the katsakya range was a short .. the katayusa had a range of 7.5 km .. it was used a lot on 
 the eastern front !!!! . Italains are pacthic and cowards .. The Flak 88 was the best anit tank 
 gun used !!!! 
  
  Sherman + pershing were pathic tanks .. on the other hand Wittman was the best tank ace . he destryed 
 dozon of allied vechiles includes 4 shermans .. with 1 tiger .. Allies were **** !!!!!!! :-P
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: -daniel-
Rating: 8.9
Date: Mar 10, 2006 7:11 am PT
Review:  Codenmae panzers phase one was a brilliant game that took you back to ww2
  and to the biggest battles in europe. It didnt sell much copies but thats mostly beacause it wasnt 
 famous around the gamers community.
  
  In this game you will given a big selections of tanks and artillery and many infantry from flamthrowers 
 to machine gunners and the objective is to clean a city full of enemy tanks infantry and ctz.
 
  
  In the beginnig of each stage you will need to choose what to buy from a selection of veichels 
 and soldiers. The money will be given depending on the success of the last mission you encounter. 
 The tanks are beautifful and act like the real ones and dont forget anti tank guns and long range 
 artillery.
  
  The graphics and sound are good enough to make me please. The campeign is a little bit short but 
 you will spend many hours online with this great multiplayer system.
  
  So run and buy this game now! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jedo
Rating: 7.8
Date: Mar 5, 2006 11:17 am PT
Review:  FOREWORD
  
  First, Id like to state that I played this game out quite a while ago; however, I only now decided 
 to put my hands on the keyboard for it. The reason for that is that theres really not much to 
 say about Panzers Phase Two, especially to those who played the first part of the game. Well, maybe 
 there is something to say about some of its original features, but somehow Im not eager to. The 
 reason for that, I believe, is in the fact that its a World War II based strategy game. And once 
 again the allied forces will win (what a shocker) . And as the player once leads a horde of units 
 (the only way to defeat an enemy group is to bring a larger group) on the battlefield thinking 
 That bush looks familiar, as he comes across places where, it seems, he's been in numerous other 
 WWII games. However, the reason could also be in the fact that Phase Two doesnt annoy the player 
 in any way seriously, and neither does it stand out much. It plays like its expected to, and when 
 things go like they're expected to what's there to note about them?
  
  GAMEPLAY
  
  Its the first half of the 2nd World War (wouldnt you be able to guess that blindly from the title 
 alone?) , and the Italian corps are in Africa helping the Germans to fight the Allied forces. The 
 player first sees the war through the eyes of an Italian commander who, besides working as a buffer 
 for the Germans against the English, is searching for his lost brother Sergio. There are three 
 interrelated campaigns, providing the player with control first over the Axis, then Allied and 
 finally the Partisan forces. In the second campaign the focus turns on an English and an American 
 commander, who, after Africa, take part in the invasion of Italy. Finally the focus goes to the 
 Yugoslavian rebels, fighting for their freedom. Missions, although relatively scripted, mainly 
 consist of shooting at something until destroyed. There are main, optional and secret objectives. 
 Yes, the latter ones are completed by accident (or by listening to common sense) . 
  
  Although the three campaigns are connected with the story, each of these campaigns is interrupted 
 rather abruptly at the end of each campaign. The last one, the Partisan campaign, in particular 
 feels too short and kind of unfinished. In any case, the story is not particularly interesting. 
 Perhaps it's because the characters are not well played and not well presented to the player. 
 
  
  From the name of the game one might conclude that its all about tanks. Well, its not entirely 
 true. Phase Two is a typical strategy game with a tone placed on the armored vehicles. Unfortunately, 
 most of the infantry units do play a very insignificant role. 
  
  It quickly becomes evident that the game has an unbendable rod of tactics that, although surrounded 
 by many tactical freedoms, dictates a certain mandatory strategic path, and its important the 
 player understands that as early on in the game as possible. The tutorial, although clear about 
 the main features of the game, does not explain this important notion to the player. 
  
  Firstly, the performance in each mission, and in particular the first one, is very important for 
 two key reasons:
  1. Whatever the player has leftover will be part of his force the next mission. That means he has 
 to take very good care of his troops.
  2. Depending on the players performance, he will receive a certain amount of points, with which 
 he, from time to time, will be able to buy reinforcements. Therefore, he better perform well. What 
 exactly is meant by "performing well" is somewhat unclear. 
  
  Secondly, there's the strategic issue. The victory mainly lies in the smart use of snipers, medics, 
 artillery and two trucks specializing in repair and the distribution of ammo. The other vehicles 
 and soldiers are useful (and are sometimes necessary) , but they arent the spear of the arrow. 
 The player must therefore be cautious with what he shops for, and theres a lot he can shop for, 
 using the earned points. The units are provided from both countries that participate in the current 
 campaign. As the campaign progresses, better tanks become available. However a lack of a repair 
 or an ammo truck in battle will mark all that new armor useless.
  
  The first time I found out that the infantry cant inflict any damage to the tanks with their bullets 
 and the tanks need to restack on ammunition, I rejoiced. Had I finally found the strategy game 
 that praises reality and logic? Well, no. What I saw next was a tank firing directly at a tightly 
 placed group of infantry, and the life bar of that group slowly reducing like an installation bar. 
 The same I saw in a fight between two tanks. It was almost like they were hitting each other with 
 tennis balls. And, by the way, one of these "super-tanks" was Sherman: the small and cheap cart, 
 which in reality, especially in the first part of the war, was leaving small dents in the Tiger's 
 massive armor. All in all, Phase Two leaves an impression of an arcade RTS (real-time strategy) 
 game weve seen so many times before. 
  
  Not to strike a feeling in the reader that Phase Two is lacking in originality! The wrapper of 
 the previously mentioned mandatory rod is really varied. The tank crew (that often survives the 
 destruction of their tank) can occupy any empty vehicle. Enemy vehicles can be "emptied" by using 
 the flamethrowers or Molotov cocktails to smoke out the enemy crew. Infantry can occupy buildings, 
 and in large numbers it can wreak havoc on the armored vehicles by throwing their grenades (unfortunately 
 the "havoc" part is only achieved in the experienced hands of the AI) . Another interesting strategic 
 element is the armor system. Different sides of a tank are of different strength, and the armor 
 integrity is reduced on each side separately. This forces the player to choose the position of 
 his tanks wisely. Oblivious to which side is turned are the artillery and air strikes, which can 
 often tip the tide of battle. There are also plenty of other small-scale features like mines, which 
 are only visible if you outfit your infantry with minesweepers, or the lights that increase the 
 visibility during night missions. Overall, there's plenty of interesting content for a new player 
 to appreciate.
  
  Apart from the main campaigns, Phase Two offers an interesting skirmish and multi-player mode. 
 The first one is practically the second one, but with an AI enemy instead of a living competitor. 
 There are two types for both modes. The first one simply brings victory to the last man standing. 
 The second goes further and throws several neutral bases on the battlefield that, if captured, 
 can produce either infantry or vehicles. The end goal is the destruction of enemy units, of course.
 
  
  Theres not much that annoys the player during the game. However one of the few things is the enemy 
 AI. After commanding your forces to move to a certain point on the map and following a 30-seconds 
 game freeze, you might find that half of your forces, if not all, will declare the inability to 
 get there. And sometimes they might stop half-way to the objective. That means you will sometimes 
 have to guide them through the corners like a baby whos barely learned how to walk. 
  
  VISUALS
  
  The graphics are what you might expect from a good strategy game: detailed but not 
 well shaped. The effects are nicely done though. Explosions are realistic (and plenty) . The enviroment 
 is destructible. That means buildings can be blown up, while trees and other obstacles can be trampled. 
 Although the setting is generally the desert, that desert is well depicted with its sandstorms 
 and dry cracks in the ground. It does make one wonder if the developers have again used the  
 trick. 
  
  SOUND
  
  The only really noticeable thing about the sound in the game is the acting. Its hard to say whether 
 its good or bad. The characters are given strong accents, and it feels like they are made fun 
 out of. This isnt necessarily a bad thing. Their text is a little cheesy though, and the few jokes 
 that are said arent funny. For the rest, everything seems to be present sufficiently but not noteworthy. 
 
  
  PERFORMANCE
  
  Important to note is that for the level of graphics that the game offers, its general performance 
 is inexcusably low, especially when you contrast it against other strategy games with better visuals. 
 On the other hand, the game doesnt crash and there are few bugs, if any.
  
  THE VERDICT
  
  Panzers Phase Two is another WWII game (gag) . Although it has plenty of original content, in 
 its essence, its still a typical RTS (more gag) . It follows in the path of its predecessor to 
 be a good RTS. With a single-player campaign, a skirmish and a multi-player this game has plenty 
 of replay value. For someone who looks for a new quality game in this genre, Phase Two will be 
 of interest. Other than that theres not much to note about this twin brother of Panzers Phase 
 One. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gandria
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 3, 2006 3:40 am PT
Review:  Well much can be said of the Codename: Panzer's, Phase Two. Graphics: Geopard is the best graphic 
 engine conceived until today. It's impressive the detail, the light... it's the Prince of Persia 
 of the RTS, it's smooth. The music is good but i think it could be better... more historic i guess. 
 
  The game is constructed in a great plot. The secret missions are very well in the middle of the 
 game. The only thing in the plot that isn't right is that is very straight ahead, no decisions 
 in the middle of the history that will culminate in a different ending. The units that we can buy 
 in the game is one of the greatest systems of "don't search no more gold mine because you wont 
 win rich" which the player must not be stand and still while the resources of the enemy are spent 
 in insignificant attacks to our base. And we are awaiting for that to a counter attack. The game 
 is very good in general. Of course some minor details like the sound, some 3d videos to immerse 
 ourselves in the history of the game, and a longer game. That off course will be a Superb game 
 of 9,9. But for now i recommend to play and enjoy this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sinagas
Rating: 9.2
Date: Dec 16, 2005 8:28 am PT
Review:  CP2 (Codename Panzers, Phase 2) is a great sequal to the game Codename Panzers Phase 1. To start 
 with there's a totally new race that you can play as: the italians. Although they are less adept 
 in combat-their tanks and infantry have terrible attack-their prestige cost are relitively low. 
 This is a great benefit to players playing as the axis as it gives them more prestige on German 
 tanks, artillery, etc. Another new gameplay feature is the ability to drop supplies by airplane. 
 
  
  The single player on this sequal focuses on the campaign in North Africa and Italy. The axis campaign 
 span from 1940-1942 starting in Libya and ends in the Battle of El Alamein and that's where the 
 allies campaign starts. After you completed both the axis and allies campaign, you will be able 
 to play the Yoguslavian partisan campaign, which obviously centers on former Yoguslavia. 
  
  The graphics and the sound effects in this game are amazing. Nearly everything is destructible 
 and the maps are totally realisitc. The graphics allows you to see sand spilling out of sandbags 
 after it got hit. 
  
  Without a doubt CP2 is an interesting game to play. I would strongly recommended this game to everybody, 
 even if WWII is not an interest to them. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Neothelid
Rating: 8.3
Date: Dec 15, 2005 8:00 am PT
Review:  While not a great fan of games that draw on the World War II environment and factions, I must admit 
 I was suitably surprised by Codename: Panzers, Phase Two.
  
  CPP2 is a real-time strategy game that puts you in command of three different factions struggling 
 for ascendancy during WW2 -- Axis, Allies and Yugoslavian Partisans. Each mission requires you to 
 complete a series of objectives in order to win, and among these the most important is the protection 
 of your general, for if he dies, you lose.
  
  When starting a campaign, you are given a small squad of tanks, support vehicles and infantry units 
 with which to complete your mission goals; completing them all is your only means of acquiring 
 new troops, since there is no base-building here (read more on this below) . These are very variable: 
 while the first level of the Axis campaing is a typical reconnaisance mission, you are required 
 on a subsequent mission to destroy incoming waves of tanks by luring them within range of scores 
 of deadly 88mm Flaks.
  
  Tanks are the absolute rulers of the battlefield; you will be relying on them for nearly everything. 
 A cool twist of this game is that you can't mass hordes of infantry and whittle down a tank's health 
 bar with their lousy rifles; to take on a tank you will need grenades, antitank guns, artillery, 
 bazookas, antivehicle rifles or another tank. Period. Also, armor here isn't just more hit points: 
 before you can begin hurting a vehicle you must weaken its armor first. Almost every vehicle has 
 four armor ratings: front, left, right, and rear, with rear being the weakest -- a reason for which 
 flanking tactics are very useful to quickly take down enemy tanks.
  
  On the contrary, infantry is extremely frail; if you think a couple of troopers with bazookas can 
 hope to take on a Panzer, well, think again: you will actually need a dozen to take it out before 
 it turns them into leaky pieces of meat, since, as in the real world, tanks are equipped with machine 
 guns that will make your life miserable if you only have foot soldiers to oppose them. While this 
 could be considered an imbalance, it actually forces you to resort to real-life tactics: garrisoning 
 your men on buildings or placing them on sandbag nests is pretty much the only chance they have 
 to survive the onslaught of a tank. Even when crawling, if your infantry gets caught in the open 
 by an enemy vehicle they will be massacred.
  
  The AI is a matter unto itself. While it can throw up memorable challenges now and then - namely, 
 the recreation of the battle of El Alamein and the defense of the Kasserina Pass on the Allied 
 campaign, both missions on which you must face very adverse odds with mere handfuls of units -, 
 its performance is often disappointing. Most of the time, it relies on you to trigger its response 
 by striking first, but I wondered for moments whether some of the tank crews were asleep as I sniped 
 my way through enemy infantry with little or no response on part of the enemy armor. 
  
  After completing a mission, any surviving units will carry on to the next scenario, and you will 
 see a summary describing the level of success of your efforts. Completing all goals (main, optional 
 and secret) will earn you more prestige points, which is used to request more powerful vehicles 
 and weapons. (This vaguely reminded me of the Warhammer 40K tabletop game.) A very cool feature 
 of this game is that it allows you to switch experienced tank crews to better and more powerful 
 vehicles; you will want to preserve your troops as much as possible throughout the whole campaign, 
 since, for example, tanks with elite crews are ridiculously tough and dish out tons of damage.
 
  
  Purists and gamers with a historical streak will be glad to see the high level of attention that 
 went into the modeling of every unit in the game. Panzers, Shermans, russian T-34s, the dreaded 
 Tiger tanks, scouting vehicles of all kinds, all are faithfully depicted in all their glory with 
 exquisite detail. The landscapes look all great, too - even the deserts everyone loves to flame 
 for being bland and monotone, but hey, such is the way a real desert looks. Seas and water elements 
 in general are extremely well done. 
  
  Sound effects are very cool too. Machineguns, cannon fire, artillery blasts, explosions, vehicle 
 engines, even a tank being hit, they are all just great and play a substantial part at making you 
 feel inside the battlefield. I wish I could say the same about the music, though. It is repetitive 
 and monotonous, for the most part, and even the more 'epic' tune played when combat erupts sounds 
 bland and cheap. There is some memorable voice acting, especially if you are using German units: 
 every unit speaks on the language of the army they are enlisted on... for example, a response from 
 the crew of a German artillery piece to an attack order is "feuer frei!" Sadly, this is outweighed 
 by the horrible Italian accents and the unoriginal and cheesy replies uttered by U. S. and British 
 units. (You'll grow to hate the "aaaaaand... go!")
  
  In the end, Panzers: Phase Two is a formidable strategy game that does away with resource management 
 and gets away with it. The quality of the single player campaigns -which is excellent in spite 
 of the mentioned AI flaws- and an amazingly intense multiplayer experience ensure that you will 
 enjoy some memorable moments -- which are worth every penny you invest on this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: anahita3000
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jul 28, 2005 11:19 pm PT
Review:  After all that I've seen in this game, I have to admit I had a lotta fun. only 2 words: GREAT GAME!!!! 
 another 2 words: WORTH BUYING!!!!
  The game is a real time military strategy game set during World War 2 (love it) .
  The colorful, 
 memorable cast of characters at your disposal comes mostly from the previous game (phase one) . Engrossing 
 and highly detailed. Many options, and equipment to achieve objectives. Quick load times. Be forewarned, 
 there is a high learning curve, but once you master the control this game will be thoroughly satisfying. This 
 is a great game that requires patience to learn.
  The graphics for phaze 2 are excellent. The game is played out in an over the top view of the town 
 where your mission is taking place. i like it beacuse Even zoomed in on all of the game the graphics 
 remain sharp and detailed.. i realy like the explosions ,well my ati 9800 pro just works great 
 with this game. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
