-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Codename: Panzers, Phase One
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/strategy/codenamepanzers/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Oct  1, 2004
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8.8
Critic Score: 8.2, 43 Review (s)
User Score: 8.6, 834 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: cdv Software
Developer: Stormregion
Genre: Historic Real-Time...
Date:     Sep 30, 2004
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Codename: Panzers provides plenty of interesting units and destructible environments to play around 
 with, and it contains a ton of content, resulting in an excellent real-time strategy game. 

 
  Stormregion's 2001 real-time strategy title S. W. I. N. E. featured pigs and rabbits engaged in a 
 fictional war that drew parallels to World War II events. The company's latest game, Codename: 
 Panzers, visits World War II for real. It features many of the original gameplay elements found 
 in S. W. I. N. E., including graphics that are every bit as state-of-the-art today as S. W. I. N. E.'s 
 were for its time. Furthermore, Codename: Panzers adds numerous other well-thought-out features 
 and enhancements, it provides plenty of interesting units and destructible environments to play 
 around with, and it contains a ton of content, including three big campaigns, all of which result 
 in an excellent, all-around real-time strategy game. There may be plenty of higher profile real-time 
 strategy games available at this time, but Codename: Panzers is good enough to be just as deserving 
 of your attention.  

          The campaigns focus on a commander who actually has some personality.     

  The game's 
 three single-player campaigns occur at different times during World War II. The German campaign 
 follows the invasion of Poland, France, and the Soviet Union; the Russian campaign deals with the 
 Soviets pushing back the German invaders; and the Allied campaign takes place during D-Day and 
 beyond. Each side follows the commander of its respective army, which adds a real human touch to 
 the proceedings. Every mission begins with the commander writing in his journal. These journal 
 entries don't really have any impact on or relevance to the upcoming missions or gameplay, but 
 they're a nice addition that gives your commander (and the game) some personality.  

  The 30 single-player missions in Codename: Panzers are varied both in their objectives and format. 
 You're always moving from one part of the war to another, so the missions and environments don't 
 get repetitive. You'll find yourself tasked with eliminating enemy forces, capturing towns, defending 
 locations, and protecting convoys, among many other responsibilities. Some missions will have multiple 
 objectives as well as secondary objectives. Unlike in many real-time strategy games, though, the 
 secondary objectives in Codename: Panzers are actually worth pursuing. If you successfully complete 
 a secondary objective, you'll be rewarded with extra prestige points -- these are very important 
 because they're used to purchase units for your army in between missions.  

  Codename: Panzers doesn't bog you down with base-building mechanics. After you purchase units, 
 you deploy your army at the start of the mission. You occasionally have some support abilities, 
 such as recon planes and dive bombers, and once in while you receive some reinforcements -- but, 
 otherwise, what you deploy is exactly what you'll have to work with. Since you have limited units, 
 you need to be careful with your battlefield tactics, especially in the latter missions, which 
 will truly test your mettle. To make matters more interesting, your vehicles even have limited 
 ammunition. You can deploy repair and ammunition trucks, although these have a limited supply as 
 well. However, the missions are balanced well so you shouldn't ever be faced with repair or ammunition 
 shortages if you proceed with caution. In general, the way in which Codename: Panzers puts the 
 emphasis on complex unit tactics works extremely well.  

          Your army will consist of many types of units.     

  There are three classes of units 
 in your army: infantry, vehicles, and stationary guns. There's a surprising variety of units in 
 these categories, which means you can field an army that suits your style. Infantry includes everything 
 from riflemen to flamethrowers. Vehicles include tanks and half-tracks, and the gun category has 
 antitank, artillery, and antiaircraft guns. Since your army can only have a maximum of 25 units 
 deployed, you're going to want to deploy a diverse force. There are various tactics and combinations 
 you can use, all of which can get the job done if used correctly.  

  Some units will become useless as you gain prestige, though. Once you have more than enough prestige, 
 you might as well have the better and more expensive tanks than the cheaper and weaker ones. And 
 once you hit your unit limit in the latter missions in a campaign, you will want to pick up self-propelled 
 artillery rather than the stationary artillery. You need infantry to man the stationary guns, and 
 possibly even a truck to tow the guns because they're slow to move across the map -- so three units 
 is wasteful when you can have everything in one self-propelled unit. This is unfortunate, because 
 your endgame army is probably going to be very vehicle-centric -- however, some of the best experiences 
 that Codename: Panzers has to offer are when you get to employ combined arms from all three categories. 
 It's here when the complexity of the game engine, as well as the visual detail in the game, truly 
 shines.     

  Infantry in Codename: Panzers are very weak, but they are arguably some of the most important units 
 in the game, and they are very interesting to command. As noted, infantry are needed to man some 
 of your equipment. They can also interact with the environment by garrisoning buildings, hopping 
 into cars on the road, or by using purchased equipment. In the army screen, you can equip infantry 
 with two pieces of equipment. Binoculars can be used to dramatically increase your field of vision. 
 You can buy rafts to send infantry across rivers. You can buy mines, grenades, Molotov cocktails, 
 and explosive charges to stick onto vehicles. The infantry diversity is also fun to experiment 
 with. Submachine gunners are great for flushing out enemy troops garrisoned in a building if you 
 want the building for yourself. Medics will heal your infantry, and mortars will lob explosives 
 at enemies. Even though the backbone of your army is going to be the tanks, it's the infantry that 
 are probably the most entertaining to use. The sheer variety in this unit category alone makes 
 Codename: Panzers quite a bit more engaging than the average real-time strategy game.  

          Explosions are satisfying to watch, especially when they are on target.     

  You'll 
 find a lot of other interesting gameplay elements in Codename: Panzers. Vehicle movement is handled 
 realistically -- vehicles back up and rotate into position as you'd expect them to. Tanks can plow 
 through trees, fences, and low barricades as if there were nothing there. Artillery shells have 
 trajectories, so if a building is in their way, then the building is going to get hit -- and hit 
  hard . It's spectacular to see the impact of these artillery shells on the ground and to see the 
 buildings collapse when they are hit. You can capture enemy tanks, even if they're occupied by 
 tank crews. If you can get close enough with flametroopers or soldiers equipped with Molotov cocktails, 
 then you can roast the tank, forcing the crew to evacuate when the temperature gets too hot. When 
 it cools down, you simply walk up with your own tank crew, and voila, the tank is yours.  

  Furthermore, some of your vehicles are armored, such as tanks and half-tracks, and this just doesn't 
 count as extra hit points as it does in most real-time strategy games. Here the armor works like 
 armor. Small arms fire won't even dent armored vehicles, and as such, your infantry shouldn't ever 
 attempt to fire on them -- unless they're properly equipped antitank or mortar infantry, that is. 
 A vehicle's armor rating must be reduced before the vehicle itself takes health damage. Most armored 
 vehicles have a stronger armor value in the front than in the rear, so it pays to use flanking 
 maneuvers. This is especially true when fighting enemy gun emplacements. If you can get infantry 
 behind an enemy artillery gun, you can wipe out the soldiers manning the gun (whose backs are exposed) 
 and take the emplacement for yourself instead of destroying it.  

  One complaint we have with the gameplay is that when you fire artillery out of your field of vision, 
 you can tell you've damaged a military target (as opposed to hitting nothing of importance) by 
 the type of explosion that results. So even without the proper reconnaissance, it's sometimes possible 
 to tell when the coast is clear for you to advance when you've got artillery on your side. Considering 
 how many types of complex mechanics that Codename: Panzers handles so capably, though, this is 
 a rather minor issue.  

  The artificial intelligence of both your forces and opposing computer-controlled forces is quite 
 good. Your units will generally path well; that is, they won't get stuck on objects and will make 
 it to the location you order them to. The computer AI is a tough opponent and it will force you 
 to save your progress often, for fear of its unpredictable and fierce tactics. However, we did 
 experience some moments when we shelled an enemy unit while it just sat there. Your own units have 
 behavior settings and are easy to control. There are no automatic formations in the game, which 
 is too bad. But if you individually set up each unit in a group, select them all and then move 
 them, they will usually arrive in the same formation in which you placed them.  

  Codename: Panzers' presentation is excellent, especially the graphics, which are superb. Units 
 look great, even when you zoom in for an up-close look at them. You'll notice a great amount of 
 detail on every single unit. The animations also look fantastic. For example, take a squad of riflemen 
 manning an antitank gun. Two men push the gun, while the other three hunker down and keep pace 
 with the gun. The cutscenes are handled in-engine and look quite nice, even though there are no 
 facial expressions or moving lips on the character models. Even the wartime-era images on the loading 
 screens are slick, adding to the game's style and presentation. The music and audio is also great. 
 In journal entries, the commanders speak English, but with a fairly accurate accent of their native 
 land. During missions, units will acknowledge orders in their native language, which is a nice 
 touch. The music is good and fits the action well, though it isn't especially memorable.  

           Skirmish modes will offer fierce battles.     

  When you finish the single-player 
 campaign, there are skirmish, scenario, and multiplayer options to extend the game. All of these 
 will let you purchase an army with a preset prestige limit, and then you'll be able to face off 
 against opponents. The scenario mode only has a few maps to choose from, and it seems pretty limited. 
 There's no scenario editor, but the developer, Stormregion, will hopefully release more scenarios 
 at some point. The skirmish mode is a one-on-one or team-based game against the computer. There's 
 a standard deathmatch, a domination mode in which you must capture and hold buildings, and an assault 
 mode in which you must attack or defend an objective. Multiplayer features these three modes, plus 
 the welcomed addition of a cooperative mode where you can tackle some of the single-player missions 
 with a friend. You can play on a LAN, via direct IP, or go online and search for open sessions 
 from a built-in server browser. It seems like the multiplayer mode doesn't have the same level 
 of polish as the single-player game, however. The server browser is rudimentary, only giving you 
 a list of servers to join and a chat window. Clicking on the objectives tab only gives you a description 
 of the multiplayer modes; you won't find out exactly what you need to destroy in the assault mode. 
 However, the multiplayer itself is still fun, thanks to Codename: Panzers' excellent gameplay -- matches 
 are typically fast paced and short, making it a worthwhile extension of the game.  

  Codename: Panzers has everything you'd expect from a quality real-time strategy game. The single-player 
 campaign is both lengthy and challenging -- each mission can easily take an hour or longer to complete. 
 There are multiple, viable tactics you can utilize in these missions, too, which gives them some 
 inherent replay value. The environments in the game are not only beautiful, but also highly interactive, 
 which makes the combat highly complex as it unfolds and very fun to watch. Multiplayer doesn't 
 necessarily seem like the game's strong suit, unfortunately. But even this part of the game can 
 still be tremendously rewarding if you can find a good session against a willing opponent. In the 
 end, this is an excellent example of a military-themed real-time strategy game, and its focused 
 game design and outstanding presentation are deserving of high praise.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (25 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Sluggo87
Rating: 9.6
Date: Aug 12, 2007 6:32 pm PT
Review:  I loved how CDV made this awesome game that delicately balances between historic detail &amp; RTS/shooter 
 suspense. I also love how CDV built the game so that you can go with an all armor strategy, an 
 infantry strategy, or a balance between infantry, armor, &amp; artillery. The air support is fast 
 &amp; accurate. I appreciate not having to click on a stupid airfield and try to direct the aircraft 
 to their targets. This game also proves to a non-history buff that bigger is not always better. 
 With the bigger tanks that you can acquire at the end of the game you lose mobility with these 
 vehicles. Even if you go into battle with just Sherman's, you can however effectively counter the 
 German panzer's with effective artillery support from you self-propelled guns. All in all, a great 
 game. I would still buy it to this day. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: liquid0celot
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jul 15, 2007 7:32 am PT
Review:  When I first played the game (2005) , and watched the intro, I was just amazed. The graphics were 
 and still are awesome, and the animations are as realistic as it could get. But a game doesn't 
 stand or fall because of its graphics, a game stands when everything is above average. I'll start 
 off with the gameplay. Before you start commanding your army, you can play a tutorial level, where 
 everything you need to know is explained and executed by you. When you've made it through bootcamp, 
 you can start playing a campaign! There are 3 campaigns in CP, a German-, a Russian- and an Anglo-American 
 campaign. Since the German was the first in line (and because German tanks are kick-ass) , I started 
 invading Poland with Hans von Groebel and his troops. During a battle, you can earn Prestige by 
 completing objectives. And the more prestige you have, the more troops you can buy and command. 
 But now back to the battlefield! You can achieve your objectives by many tacticts... For example: 
 I like to carefully plan and co&ouml; rdinate my attacks. That way I can win many small battles 
 without losing a single unit! But for people who like a more direct approach, just buy enougn tanks 
 to strike the enemy hard and devestating! The German campaign is great for people who love tactical 
 blitzkrieg as much as I do, but for people who like battles with heavy tanks and artillery, CP 
 has the Russian campaign. And anyone who likes sweeping the map with a bunch of Sherman tanks, 
 will definately love the Anglo-American campaign!
  
  That's all! And for die hard commanders, CP has the training and skirmish modes, which will prove 
 a real challenge!
  
  Game-On! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CCNARayman
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jun 24, 2007 10:02 am PT
Review:  nice detailed Graphics bad over noisy Sounds good idea in the flame thrower tank crew thing
  
  using Special Abilities doesn't cost you anything because they do not stack
  which make it 
 more fun to play in play i make it more in the Infantry side more Machine Gunners 2 Flamethrowers 
 and as much as i can Tank Crew so i latterly still all the enemy's tanks its more fun and diffidently 
 less expensive the noisy the noisy the noisy diffidently the noisy the tanks are too loud the game 
 default setting in sound is diffidently in need of adjustment so pay special attention to it over 
 all its a good game for any WWII fun 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KLN2002
Rating: 7.2
Date: Apr 3, 2007 11:57 am PT
Review:  Codename Panzers is an easy game to learn to play but a nearly impossible game to master. Single 
 player consists of 3 campaigns, German, Russian, or American &amp; British, that you can play. 
 The graphics in the game are excellent, you can see minute details in the grassy land scope, forest 
 &amp; buildings offer your infantry units great places to hide, and are fully destructible by tanks, 
 and artillery fire. This is not an economy based Real-time strategy game, since you do not have 
 to gather resources, and you can't build units. Instead you earn prestige by successfully completing 
 missions. The problem I found with that is you only get 500 or so points after each mission, which 
 generally can only buy you a couple infantry units, or a tank. As you progress though a given campaign 
 you can become overwhelmed, as you have so few units taking on an entire division of enemy troops. 
 The game does offer a Co-op multiplayer campaign mode, as well as Death matches, and some others 
 where you can capture buildings that can produce new units for you. If you were a fan of the Close 
 Combat series from Microsoft Codename Panzers is a great game for you. Casual Real time strategy 
 players may not get that much enjoyment from this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jaydee00003
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 19, 2007 9:26 am PT
Review:  this is the best word war 2 Historic Real-Time Strategy i had ever played!!! i propably played 
 every map more than 10 times and the ones i really liked was the first 2 german maps germany vs 
 poland i had even captured every enemy tanks and tanketts on both of the map but still i think 
 we could have more germany vs poland maps like Westerplatte, Battle of Mokra, Battle of M&amp;#322; awa, Battle 
 of Modlin and many more 2 come... i also would like 2 be able 2 play whit the polish army this time.... the 
 maps that i played most was the polish airfield and the polish village i played it more than 50 
 times and the full game time i had spend playing this game was about 300-400 hours.. i give it 10+1!!!! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fireworld2406
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jan 19, 2007 6:14 pm PT
Review:  This game rocks. 3-D gfx, destructible environments, well-designed missions, this game has it all. 
 About the only downside that I can think of is the poor path finding skills. If you tell a unit 
 to go to places far away, the game will freeze for several minutes and then the unit will say it 
 is unable to go to that location. If you like World War 2 RTSs, then this game is for you. This 
 game also has tremendous replay value in the form of multiplayer and single-player skirmishes. 
 The sound is pretty good, but can be glitchy at times. Hopefully my review helped any prospective 
 buyers of this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Georse
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 13, 2006 6:06 am PT
Review:  This game is extremely immersive at first. The tank battles are interesting and the need for tactics 
 and manoeuvre is refreshing. The use of veteran tank crews has been used before but there use in 
 this manner is very entertaining. When a tank crew gains experience their power increases. This 
 veteran tank crew can then be moved to a new and more powerful tank. This feature is exciting at 
 first but it leads itself to a situation where you reload your last save if a veteran tank crew 
 dies. This begins to ware on the games lastability so much so that I havent bothered coming back 
 to it in a couple of weeks. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Fliptje
Rating: 5.1
Date: Aug 20, 2006 11:38 am PT
Review:  Although the package attracted me from the first moment, it was quite coincidentally that I learned 
 to play "Soldiers, Heroes of WWII" first. After having played this superb game for about 4 months, 
 I turned to "Panzers", wanting more of this type of RTS games.
  
  Although the graphics seemed good at first sight, I could not reuse or find back any wrecked panzers, 
 since they 'disappear' after being shot. The battlefield kind of cleans itself. 
  The realism of the game got lost for me completely, when I discovered that a tank could be shot 
 by any weapon, eg. a simple revolver, if you would hit it a certain number of times. 
  
  This, and a lot of other small things, transformed the game in some straightforward shooting game, 
 since it just came down to "get there first and shoot'em up".
  
  Waiting now for "faces of war", which is about to be released... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hampton2003
Rating: 8.1
Date: Jul 6, 2006 11:26 am PT
Review:  i thought this game would be the ww2 rts game i would play for a long time. i've been looking into 
 the best ww2 rts out there but still i'm looking. this game focusses on tanks (hence the name) , 
 but gives you a large amount ofinfantry selection as well. but the problem is in most skirmish 
 battles you wont need the infantry because the enemy has mostly armor, and tanks have machine guns 
 on them too chew up infantry. so skirmish is a tank show, and a lame show it is.... you start at 
 one end of the map and the computer starts at the other end. the computer will take its army and 
 throw it at you, head on. So basically its a rush to set up your position before the enemy hits 
 you in the face. i liked the fact you could select your army down to the last footsoldier, the 
 number of units is the best i've seen so far. but its too bad that you couldn't select which troops/tanks 
 etc that your computer friend or enemy could use againist you. Because the enemy uses mostly tanks, 
 therefore it forces you to use mostly armor too, because its the only way to win. the only thing 
 you can restrict is the amount of money everyone has to purchase units before battle. campaign 
 is dry and some of the worst cutscenes and voice acting ever! but at least infantry play a role 
 in the campaign. easy and normal difficulty in campaign seems too easy and hard is just way too 
 hard, wheres the middle ground?
  
  probably my worst compliant is the damage system. When tanks engage enemy tanks they fire round 
 after round at each other until one side wins, the problem is that one shot from a single tanks 
 does little damage! its a spitball war! even tiger tanks barely pack more of a punch than a sheman. 
 so its not fun watching a battle that last five minutes consisting of tank rounds flying back and 
 forth.
  
  on the bright side the rearming and resupplying trucks are a great game feature, as long as you 
 protect them! 
  
  overall this game was the only one that came close to having that felling of fighting in ww2. its 
 for sale now for about ten buck at target, and i'm not going to bother with the sequel, cause i 
 hear nothing changed, but maybe you should try the sequel. it will be easier to find than this 
 game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jt-vlad
Rating: 7
Date: Apr 1, 2006 3:06 pm PT
Review:  the good graphics? yes. but nothing else ... 
  P. S. a bit "arcadish", not for the "deep" gamers... maybe for those who has littel experience with 
 ww2 strategies such as Sudden strike... of Soldiers: Heroes of WW2 (Outfront) ... so on so forth 
 and don`t know what to add... I have simply glkd fgjkldflklgjkdljk gdgjk; g; ldkjg ;gkd; k ;lgkd; lk 
 l; kgl; dkg; kf fk; sklfkf; ks fk; skf; sk ;lfks; kl; s gmkd; lk fks;. fjslk. gjkdjks. sfkljsljk ./dklsjfkl 
 flkjakq; op/  gjdlfgjdlfjgdfklgjd ljgld jlgjdljk lgjd ljdgldkj 
 lgjlsjkg ljglj lj lgjs; lj lsjd lj lj lsjfkljs. fjksl; jflskdj jsl lk jlj sfljdfljfljasfljaljkfldkj 
 lfj flj lsdjf lsdjflsjk flsj slj l jl jfdlj lsj lj ls jlsj l jl jkl j ljkl kj 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rainth345
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 22, 2006 8:48 pm PT
Review:  I have played many strategic games, This one it's great. I bet the next is great too. Like the Generals (the 
 game) the graphics is so awesome. There is no fuel needed for the tanks and trucks and the ammo 
 is unlimited but for some its not and the units sometimes they come only one unit but in this game 
 if buy one squad there's five or two. I wonder if the soon in one squad there will be seven or 
 eight because it's a squad and squads have eleven or fifteen. You say 8.8 but I say 10 but if others 
 know about this they think I'm a geek about WW2 games and other strategic games. To who are reading 
 this well, here is a secret I'am truly an addict about WW2 games and other strategic games. This 
 its like the game makers copied the whole thing (WW2) ! 
  
  The best thing in this game is the graphics mostly the sound because if you get attack there will 
 be this sound to be played. I recommend copy all the units
  in the WW2. For those who are playing best use the recon plane and then use the air support and 
 artillery support to destroy the tanks and artillery positions then use your units to destroy the 
 rest. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rykh
Rating: 7.6
Date: Feb 3, 2006 10:36 am PT
Review:  I picked this game up with the sequal in a package deal at walmart for $30. I expectations were 
 mixed for this game. I felt the need to play a strategy game. I was hoping this game was similar 
 to the old Close Combat games I used to love back in the day. It was similar but fell short surpassing 
 the need I had for a good strategy game. 
  
  Overall the graphics are at par for a few years ago when this was released. I didnt like the way 
 the fog of war worked in this game. I didnt seem realistic to me. I didnt like how anti tank riflemen 
 could do damage to tanks that realisticly wouldnt be able to penetrate the armor. 
  
  But to give it some credit the game is decent and in the bundle of Phase one and two together it 
 is worth buying. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: venusivy
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jan 21, 2006 12:46 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay: Panzers is a very good RTS with emphasis on the tactical component. There is no resource 
 gathering, which I personally find to be the most boring and repetitive part of RTS. However, you 
 can still get new units through an automatic prestiege system. The action is good with somewhat 
 intelligent AI that knows how to hide, how to retreat and, of course, how to attack. The unit variety 
 is good overall, though you will find that you stick to a core group of units that are only about 
 1/10 of the available units depending on your gameplay style. The realism is somewhat lacking, 
 though isn't that always the case with RTS?
  
  Graphics: I bought this game in early 2006 and ran it on my new machine. Considering its age, the 
 graphics were really impressive and helped to heighten the gameplay experience. Lots of detail.
 
  
  Sound: Sound was good. The sound effects were strong and well played. I wish there had been more 
 thematic music to add to the gameplay.
  
  Value: Amazing value! Well, I bought it for $15, so that is hard to beat. This was an exceptional 
 game that exploited all of its strengths really well and had enough versatility to appeal to a 
 player on many levels. Great game.
  
  Beef: The pathfinding SUCKS! Additionally, your units will NOT fire or even defend themselves if 
 they are moving or if they are 'follow.' Both of these issues could have been resolved in a patch, 
 but, considering Panzers 2 has been released and still no resolution in Panzers 1, I don't think 
 they will fix it. I am ticked at CDV for not addressing these two glaring issues.
  
  If you like Panzers Phase 1: I suggest Soldiers Heros of WWII. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tocohara
Rating: 7.3
Date: Dec 11, 2005 2:43 pm PT
Review:  This game has many enjoyable features. First, the commanders in the field do give the game a lil 
 bit of personality for the game. Second, the vehicles, artillery, and other units are detailed 
 and this should appeal to the WW2 tactician. 3rd: the graphics and sound are pretty good.
  
  I have found I can use most of the types of infantry to my advantage, and not always as cannon-fodder. 
 You can learn to maneuver the infantry into a grenade attack on enemy armor. Also I like the flame-throwers 
 and their ability to disarm enemy armor so you can capture it for your own use.
  
  The AI is decent, even on the normal mode. This was my first WW2 RT strategy I have played and 
 it is challenging at times. 
  
  There are a few points of contention I have though. First, the damage factor in tank to tank battles 
 is quite unrealistic. You can duke it out, your 3 panzers vs. 1 matilda, and it would take 20+ 
 hits before the matilda is destroyed. Whatever happened to the weak spots and one-hit kills? also, 
 I haven't enjoyed all of the missions, where you have to go sniping and that jazz. I bought a tank 
 game and I want to fight with tanks.
  
  Bottom line, this game is still fun to play. I can't rate it against other games of the genre, 
 but you will be disappointed only if you are a die-hard true to the historical gamer.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Headstoner
Rating: 8.7
Date: Aug 3, 2005 5:41 pm PT
Review:  This game is worth mentioning due to the fact of how much fun I have had playing it. All the aspects 
 of a good RTS are there. The graphics, sound, and gameplay are all well done making this game worth 
 buying.
  
  You are a German commander in WW2 and have a wide variety of resources at your disposal some of 
 which include panzer tanks, heavy artillery, and various troops. You are given several missions 
 throughout the game some of which will challenge you to select the right resources to complete 
 your task. As you successfully complete your missions you are given more and more resources.
  
  Graphics : Graphically this game is very detailed. All the little things are accounted for 
 including the trees rustling in the wind to the tire tracks left by your vehicles. The explosions 
 are beautifully done. You can see the debris flying off your tanks as they exploded.
  
  Sound : Overall the sound is also another winner. The fire of the tanks sounds real and if you 
 have a sub woofer on your system you can feel the power of the artillery shells exploding.
  
  Game Play : The game play was very addictive. I could not take myself away from the game without 
 completing one more mission. The controls were easy to understand and the learning curve is very 
 short. 
  
  If you are a WW2 strategy fanatic then I would recommend this game without hesitation. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 1fast6
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 10, 2005 6:27 am PT
Review:  Codename: Panzers phase1 is a pretty fun game overall... it lacks the realsim of some WW2 RTS games 
 and plays a bit more like command and conquer than close combat... which is fine with me, because 
 I always found close combat really hard and frustrating...
  
  beautiful graphics with a completely destructable environment and excellent sound really add to 
 the realism, though... the shadows are so eerily realistic - I keep peeking around buildings with 
 the fully rotatable camera to look for soldiers that aren't there, its just shadows from the movement 
 of the breeze in the trees... and as evening approaches the soldiers and vehicles cast longer and 
 longer shadows... this kind of realism is there in this game...
  
  the soldiers and vehicles display a pretty good AI, wayfinding is usually not an issue, though 
 occasionally traffic jams will result in a kind of gridlock, where eventually nothing is moving... 
 but until I fully understood how line of sight and fog of war were implemented, I did sometimes 
 wonder why I could sneak up so close on some occasions and on others I was sighted right off...
 
  
  a good selection of different units are available in the game, depending which period in the campaign 
 you are playing, ie the early campaign starts you as a german in poland, then france, then russia, 
 then your a russian, then you are allied... some of the units are upgradeable with additional equipment 
 available... you definitely want to equip your snipers with binoculars...
  
  by completing each mission you earn prestige points which you use to purchase new or upgrade your 
 units and vehicles... the individual units earn experience points and their performance and morale 
 improves with their experience, and they follow you from one mission to the next, so you definitely 
 want to try to keep them alive... a nice feature is that an experience tank crew can be moved from 
 an older (weaker) tank, into a newer unit when it becomes available...
  
  the unit selection and movement/battle interface is really well implemented... its easy to move 
 around the map and select individual units or user defined groups of units... 
  
  the main menu and load/save interface is kind of klunky... and there are some bugs... mine crashes 
 at least once in a 3-4 hour game session (I'm on SP2) , usually during auto game saves, which can 
 be frustrating... and finally, the manual is worthless...
  
  but other than these few minor issues, this is a pretty well implemented and overall fun WW2 RTS...
 
  
  enjoy the game... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jpetrolino
Rating: 8.8
Date: Dec 27, 2004 10:32 pm PT
Review:  Don't underestimate this game. I sure did and I'm glad I revisited the website and decided to go 
 out and buy it. Not sure why most people are not rushing out to get it. For me, it just wasn't 
 hyped up enough and wound up slipping through the cracks. Don't be fooled though. This game is 
 no joke. If you like the strategy aspect of combat (and I say that because most RTS games are not 
 really as strategic as they claim to be) and are fascinated by WW II ... then this game (at the 
 low low price of $40) is what you have been looking for.
  
  Graphics are sharp and capture every last detail ... Even the animations of infantry will dazzle 
 you ... watch closely as an exploding shell sends a squad of infantry twisting and flailing through 
 the air. Explosions are dazzling and will impress even the most harshest critics. Pay careful attention 
 to the muzzle of your tank after its main gun fires and you will see wisps of smoke eminating from 
 the barrel. Even when you can't see something, you'll be impressed ... What do I mean? Just wait 
 until your convoy is passing down a dirtroad and from out of nowhere, a line of armored vehicles 
 emerge from the forest - having been there the entire time waiting to ambush you, but camoflauged 
 from your view. Framerates also are smooth with slowdown only noticeable when I maxed out ... yes 
 "maxed out" the resolution using medicore hardware (albeit a 256 video card) .
  
  Gameplay: AI is challenging at the default level. Setup is simple and will take no more than 10 
 minutes to figure out. In-game pause will allow you to really think your tactics through and rarely 
 will you see a unit get stuck in the middle of nowhere. One criticism in this department ... there 
 does not appear to be a command to send troops to a location and order them to stop and attack 
 all enemies they enounter along the way. Don't get me wrong, your tanks will fire at targets, but 
 they will keep driving even if the target has not been neutralized. Somewhat frustrating, but easily 
 cured with the tap of the pause button if you see your units being lit up on the mini map.
  
  Sound: Well done. On night missions you can hear crickets chirping in the forest as your troops 
 (and enemies) scream commands in their native tongues. Explosions sound good, but sometimes the 
 gutteral thump of artillery is lacking and the sound of tanks' cannons may sound too repetitive. 
 I would have liked the sounds more if mortar rounds actually screamed and whistled a bit more as 
 they cut through the air ... but, believe me, I am really nitpicking. Sound only gets an 8 because 
 it is not the strongest element in the game (in my opinion)
  
  Value: Just took a glance at multiplayer, but it appears vast. Co-op campaigns online should be 
 a blast if I could ever convince my friends to get moving and get this game. The campaign alone 
 will take you considerable time to complete as you will struggle at times to complete a mission 
 with all of your army still intact. Thank goodness for unlimited saves. One criticism, not all 
 units available to each army are available in the campaign - this is someonewhat disappointing, 
 but a minor flaw easily overcome - play skirmishes and other modes ...
  
  Bottom line, if you have been glancing at this game and debating whether or not to buy it, stop 
 hesitating and rush out to get this game. It's tons of fun, visually stimulating and will keep 
 you thinking for hours after a mission about new strategies to employ the next time you're overrun 
 by a squad of panzers. A word of caution to those of you who place considerable weight on storyline 
 and in-game cutscenes (which never meant a whole lot to mean when playing an RTS game) - both of 
 these categories are weak in this game. In my book, however, neither should discourage you from 
 buying this game. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Onthehunt
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 17, 2004 2:38 pm PT
Review:  This game in my opinion has many more up than downs. One thing I dislike is how the keyboard controls 
 are set up but after awhile you get use to them. The missions are pretty straight forward but may 
 need to replay a few times to get the hang of things. I would recommend the scenerios to start 
 with to get the feel of how to use troops and your armor in combination. Overall I think its a 
 pretty good game that could use a few improvements but with the modding community out their some 
 do a pretty good job adding to realism and maybe adding things you might like to see in the game. 
 Definitely would recomend this game to any WW2 RTS fan. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: I-Dogg
Rating: 7.9
Date: Oct 18, 2004 5:33 am PT
Review:  Being a WWII buff myself, I have been waiting for a really good non-first person shooter based 
 game on the subject. Frankly, the number of WWII shooters is out of hand, and this is a refreshing 
 change to the WWII genre. It's a solid game that, I think, both WWII buffs and RTS buffs will enjoy.
 
  
  First, the good stuff. The sound effects in this game will rock your world if you have a decent 
 system. Once a full scale fight has broke out, you will be blown away by the great explosions, 
 varying gunfire, and vehicle noise. One of the details I really liked was that German soldiers 
 speak in German and Russian soldiers speak in Russian. It's a small detail that really adds to 
 the overall game play. The character models are good, too. The different tanks really stand out 
 and you can tell them apart. They aren't just repainted models of the same stuff. The landscape 
 of most of the levels are nice, too. There are some bad places here and there, but overall, it 
 really looks good. Details ,such as, being able to hide troops in the landscape is a cool idea. 
 Tall grass, bushes, and trees can sometimes mask a small group of troops. The simple fact that 
 tanks just roll right over trees, fences, and utility poles and they tumble down is very cool.
 
  
  The story mode, so far, is a plus. First off, you can customize your army with whatever is available 
 at that time in the war. You don't have to use what the computer gives you. You are awarded points 
 at the end of missions with which to outfit your army. Troops also gain experience that improves 
 there damage in combat. Tank crews, rather than the tank itself, gains experience. This lets you 
 upgrade the tank that the crew is driving, while still keeping it's experience. Foot soldiers can 
 also be equipped with extra equipment to aid them in a mission. You can spend points to give them 
 grenades, mines, and Molotov cocktails to help them fight tanks if the are away from tank support. 
 Mine detectors can clear the way for your tanks to move. The boat is a neat piece of equipment 
 that allows the unit to cross deep water. A good move to launce an ambush or get to hidden areas. 
 The binoculars allow the unit to have greater sight range. A good thing for snipers, mortar teams, 
 and anti-tank rocket troops. The wide verity of troops you can use adds a lot to the replay value.
 
  
  Now the bad stuff. One of the first thing seasoned RTS players will see is the lack of team formations. 
 For some reason, you aren't able to position groups in formations like box, broken line, and sweep. 
 When they move from point A to B, the simple move to the position they were in to start with, and 
 sometimes just go in random places. It will start to tick you off in a large fight. I think that 
 is a critical thing missing from a game where getting your troops in the right place is the key 
 to a good attack.
  
  Graphics in the cut scenes are very poor. They look about three years old or more. I guess that 
 really doesn't affect game play, but they could have put forth a bit more effort than that. Sometimes 
 it's just painful to watch, but it can easily be ignored when the story is good.
  
  All in all, this game is made for RTS players and WWII buffs. Off-and-on RTS players may not like 
 it that much, but if you are a huge RTS player or a WWII geek like me... this is the game for you.
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: MrBiohazard
Rating: 9.2
Date: Oct 6, 2004 12:32 pm PT
Review:  I put off playing this game for around 3 weeks after buying it. Big mistake. I couldn't stop playing 
 for 5 hours once I'd started! It has all the atmosphere of Commandos 3 and the gameplay of Command 
 & Conquer.
  
  Controlling units and moving around the game arena couldn't be simpler, with standard RTS type 
 unit controls it's very easy to pick up.
  
  The number of specific units is amazing. They all have their uses, even the simple foot soliders 
 - as they can man anti-tank guns if required. Trucks can move guns around using tow hooks, un-manned 
 tanks can be manned with your own tank crews, flame-thrower units can be used to heat up a tank 
 so that it's crew leave it - giving you the option of then using the tank for yourself!
  
  In single play, any units or vehicles you aquire in one level can be used in the next which is 
 a big plus for me. I never liked the way Command & Conquer made you start all over with a set number 
 of units.
  
  Explosions are realistic, the inclusion of bomber runs and scout planes is a fantastic feature, 
 I cannot tell you how much I love this game.
  
  My only complaint is the bad accents! Having German soldiers speak with an American accent ruins 
 the atmosphere of the cut-scenes.. but there is actual German spoken in-game and some funny word-plays 
 too - so that makes up for it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DEFOS
Rating: 9.4
Date: Oct 5, 2004 10:12 am PT
Review:  I was impressed so much with the demos I played them for weeks, its rare for any game to capture 
 me so much and the finnal release was as good if not better than I anticipated. Units have amazing 
 detail and animation, even down to tracks, exaust and dust from your wheels. Its mainly the amount 
 of freedom you have over choices in units and equiptment that makes this game playable over and 
 over.
  With most games I play I look for extended life in the multiplayer arena and this game delivers 
 the best from all the classics and more.
  The only poor aspect of the game is the cut scenes, with no lip sink animations or CG footage it 
 unfortunately gives the impression of an unfinnished product due partly to the fact they used the 
 ingame engine. Despite this minor fact it does not remove from the games playability and is a recomended 
 buy for all.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: wiggywiz
Rating: 8.4
Date: Oct 4, 2004 10:36 am PT
Review:  As Usual there are those that are looking for a turn based game here, so they will say it lacks 
 realism.
  
  However this is the best non turned based WW2 game since Close Combat, and it more than fits the 
 bill.
  
  The features are many, and the "realism" is enough to keep me laying it more than Dawn of War right 
 now.
  
  From hitching artillery guns to my trucks, to being able to use enemy equipment and destroy buildings, 
 this game has a slew of really neat stuff you can do, right down the RPG aspects
  
  At first i was wary because I hated the other titles this company had put out, except maybe American 
 Conquest. But this game blew my socks off. Even the graphics are really great. The game has a great 
 pace as well. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Saturnine
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 3, 2004 7:47 pm PT
Review:  A great game is a balance of Graphics & Sound, Game Mechanics (the logic behind things like realism 
 and AI) , and Player Interface. CPPO is an example of superior delivery in each of these. Yes there 
 are games that do one or several better but CPPO effectively has the whole package. Heres my 
 take on these areas:
  
  Graphics & Sound
  This game is visually beautiful, and dont discount that factor when thats what youre going to 
 be looking at for the entire time you play.
  Pros:
  - Beautifully landscaped, just watch the outhouse door swing lazily in the September breeze. Invites 
 you wander around and enjoy before you call in the airstrike.
  - Unit detail, I just get a kick as the motorized vehicles rock back on their suspension after 
 firing a round or coming to a sharp stop.
  - Destroyable trees, fences, etc. I felt bad about those two statues outside the Roman Catholic 
 church in Polanddamn panzer drivers.
  
  Cons:
  - Units can get hidden behind buildings (no red outline as in other games)
  - During gameplay 
 youll probably not be zoomed in to greatest visual detail anyway, opting more for birds-eye-veiw. 
 But heck, its better than abstracting units to square counters.
  
  Gameplay
  Like most in the RTS genre there is a bit of arcade-game rules that sacrifice pure realism for 
 playability, however those events do just that. If you feel you need to play games using a spreadsheet 
 and slide rule this one isnt for you.
  Pros:
  - The concept of combined force is the core of unit dynamics. Artillery is queen of the battlefield 
 but defenseless, Armor will roll over infantry in open terrain, Infantry will take buildings and 
 neutralize etc
  - It not just about offensive units, there are well defined support units: ammo trucks, repair, 
 recon, etc.
  - This makes you think about optimal force mix and play your game that way. Theres even a game 
 feature that allows you to test-drive units to explore their operating characteristics.
  - Uncommon in the RTS area, Unit Experience is a nice additional dimension.
  
  Cons:
  - The 
 AI is adequate, mostly passive, and sometimes gets target fixation on something in your army 
 not worth its time.
  - OK, its a bit too arcade-gameish to allow armor units to get repaired in the middle of a firefight.
 
  
  Interface:
  A good interface is one that doesnt get between the player and the game. In CPPO you can achieve 
 just about everything with LMB, RMB, and wheel. That includes getting your tank to face one direction 
 and fire in another.
  
  Summary:
  Gamers who found the playability and pace of Panzer General will probably enjoy CPPO immensely, 
 as I do. The combination of game characteristics appeals to my TBS type playing, and the captivating 
 graphics makes it a visual treat. Highly recommend!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mauro_Rosati
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 3, 2004 11:14 am PT
Review:  If you love Word War II RTS this is the game for you, you can't miss it.
  You have great graphics and animation, the soldiers eran experience during battle so you have to 
 do the possible to keep on living your more experienced soldiers, it's better a few but strong 
 that a lot but weak. One thing I didn't like about this game, when you have accomplished the mission 
 you don't have the same soldiers to choose, so you have to restart with weak unity (I'm talking 
 also of vehicles, tanks, and all the soldiers classes such as machine gunner, rifleman, and so on) .
 
  Even with these flaws this game worth the buying and the playing time you'll spend with it, you 
 can't miss this one my friends if you are a lover of this kind of game, so go out and buy it now!!!! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: unurkan
Rating: 6
Date: Oct 2, 2004 7:31 pm PT
Review:  I just purchased this game with hopes of having a game that beats Soldiers: Heros of WWII. I am 
 quite dissapointed in the result. While both Panzers and Heros are gorgeous from a graphics standpoint, 
 I was let down by the realism factor of Panzers. Yes, tanks and armored vehicles have individual 
 historically accurate armor ratings for each side, but that means little in game. There is no such 
 thing as ricochets and any AP projectile does some sort of damage to the unit. Also, there is no 
 real control over individual units like you have them in Soldiers.
  
  My recommendation is that if you are looking for realism, stick to Soldiers or Combat Mission. 
 If you like Command & Conquer type gameplay, Panzers may suit you. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
