-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Codename Eagle
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/action/codenameeagle/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Apr 17, 2000
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 5.7
Critic Score: 6.2, 17 Review (s)
User Score: 7.5, 87 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Take-Two Interactive
Developer: Refraction
Genre: Action
Date:     Mar 31, 2000
ESRB: Mature

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Codename Eagle is a short, linear, and really goofy game that's much more frustrating than it is 
 interesting. 

 Codename Eagle is a 3D action game in which you conduct espionage through huge outdoor environments. 
 You start on foot, but you can commandeer any vehicle you find, from motorcycles, to tanks, to 
 biplanes. It sounds like a great idea in theory and suggests that developer Refraction has created 
 an evolutionary advancement of the first-person shooter. But in practice, Codename Eagle is a short, 
 linear, and really goofy game that's much more frustrating than it is interesting.  

 The first level serves as a microcosm of the entire game. The goal of the mission is to sneak into 
 an enemy base and steal some secret documents. To accomplish the task, you're supposed to find 
 an enemy uniform, disguise yourself as an enemy soldier, trade a bottle of vodka for a truck, load 
 a crate onto the truck, drive the truck several miles through a few checkpoints, lift some identification 
 out of another crate, and use the identification to gain access to the base. The thing is, it's 
 much easier to simply skip the busywork and march straight through the level like a Terminator, 
 killing everything in your path. So much for espionage.  

 The main reason you can kill every living thing within two square miles of enemy territory is that 
 the enemies are both predictable and dumb. Rather than using buildings and trees tactically for 
 advancing cover, or doing anything that might take advantage of Codename Eagle's outdoor environments, 
 the computer opponents rely on the oldest behavior patterns in the book: standing in place or feinting 
 to the side before running straight at you. What's more, most of your enemies can't actually shoot 
 while moving, which makes them especially vulnerable as they're jogging toward you. And enemy vehicles 
 tend to drive in preset patterns. They'll fire at you if you cross their path, but they won't give 
 chase.   

 The game's many chain-link fences are often your trickiest adversaries. The fences are electrified 
 and are damaging if you brush against them, even if you're sitting in a tank. Although you can 
 see quite clearly through the fences, you can't shoot through them nor can enemies sense you through 
 them. It may seem like a minor complaint, but it's indicative of Codename Eagle's many persistent 
 and mood-breaking glitches.  

 Another odd design choice is that virtually every gun in the game uses the same ammunition. The 
 revolver, the shotgun, and the Russian armored car all draw from the same reserve of bullets.  
 

 Operating the vehicles in Codename Eagle ranges from being essentially just like walking fast in 
 the case of the motorcycle, to being overly complex in the case of the plane. Though Codename Eagle 
 forsakes realism at every turn, the designers decided to turn the biplane-flying portion of the 
 game into what seems like a hard-core sim. The transition from the simple controls in the rest 
 of the game to the complexity of piloting the aircraft is jarring. Three of the game's 12 missions 
 involve precision aerial combat, and all are more frustrating than fun due to the difficulty of 
 maneuvering the plane. The mouse is absolutely unusable for flying, so you need to switch to the 
 keyboard whenever you board a plane. No free-look option is available in flight, and none of the 
 third-person camera views grant you a very good perspective of what's below you, which makes bombing 
 runs especially tedious.  

 Codename Eagle includes the standard deathmatch, team play, and capture-the-flag multiplayer modes 
 but is somewhat unique in that all of the vehicles are supported in these modes. You can jump into 
 a plane and strafe the enemies' base as they fire back at you with antiair guns. Unfortunately, 
 the game exhibits a lot of sync problems, so for open-terrain online combat, you won't be uninstalling 
 Starseige: Tribes just yet.  

 Of further note, Codename Eagle is packaged with a copy of Gamespy, which implies that you can use 
 it to locate Codename Eagle servers. However, in a bold display of marketing chicanery, the version 
 packaged with the game doesn't actually support Codename Eagle, and in fact, you need to pay extra 
 for a registered copy of Gamespy to locate any Codename Eagle servers.  

 The game's graphics are occasionally effective. The geometry of the open landscapes is simple, but 
 Codename Eagle's beautiful sky textures sometimes create the optical illusion that the game looks 
 better than it actually does. The mission goals are varied, and you'll sometimes find yourself 
 having fun with them. So the game is not without redeeming qualities: Codename Eagle is mediocre, 
 but sort of enthusiastically mediocre. Pick it up after it hits the five-dollar bargain bin, milk 
 some enjoyment out of it for a few hours, then quit when you have to fly the plane.    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (6 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: HummaKavula
Rating: 7
Date: Aug 21, 2007 6:16 am PT
Review:  Codename Eagle is an old game, and I like it alot, despite its drawbacks.
  I've had alot of multiplayer fun with my friends, I've even made some of my own levels.
  
  
 You could say CE is the mother of the Battlefield series because, well, it is.
  It's from the same guys that made the Battlefield series, and it isn't hard to tell.
  The game 
 alone might be bad, but with some patches, maps and mods to download, I've had alot of fun.
  There are many bugs and glitches, and the gameplay is just goofy, in a good way. Like if you hop 
 out of a plane and land you get disintegrated and your body explode into meat-chunks and a splishy-splashy 
 blood sound plays.
  It's hilarious.
  I've downloaded many maps like racing tracks, battlefields and some pretty weird maps that are 
 just ingenious.
  
  Codename Eagle is old, and very ugly. The draw distance reach fairly far, the rest is covered in 
 fog.
  The game might be hard to recommend by now, but to me CE is a little classic gem that is very underappreciated 
 because CE was ahead of its time with large levels and a massive battles including tanks, cars, 
 trucks, airplanes, and lots more with mods like helicopters, bigger airplanes, smaller airplanes 
 etc.
  
  Despite the abysmal singleplayer campaign, Codename Eagle is for me a classic LAN game that I can 
 easily pick up with a few friends on a weekend for a couple of hours of mayhem. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JOE714
Rating: 6.5
Date: Oct 4, 2006 7:18 am PT
Review:  Before Codename Eagle, most first-person shooters were limited in the width and depth of the area 
 that a player could inhabit. As detailed and mechanically miraculous the Quake engine was in the 
 90s, wide-open spaces were rare; even outdoor levels were often hemmed in by cliff walls or a 
 flat timberline. Eagles most endearing feature was its roominess, which allowed the player to 
 drive or fly a variety of hybrid WWI-style vehicles all the way to the distant horizon. The terrain 
 textures are a bit blurry by todays high-res standards, and there was very little detail found 
 in anything but the games hills, valleys, and sparse vegetation. Many buildings were just painted 
 boxes, and the enemy soldiers were a mere silhouette until they drew very near to the player. Otherwise, 
 Eagle excelled primarily as an early experiment with the overland trek school of design that 
 made more recent games like Far Cry, Chrome, and Serious Sam so entertaining.
  
  Even though there wasnt all that much to do on Eagles huge first level  which started off as 
 little more than a driving tutorial  I found myself wandering hither and yon, just looking at 
 all the snow-covered mountains and wide, flat spaces. I spent my fair share of time pulling stunts 
 in the truck and armored car, as well as on the motorcycle in the games second level (which covered 
 even more area along the same patch of ground) . The gun battles I encountered were dull and difficult 
  fighting the same soldier over and over through most scenarios was too repetitive, and the only 
 real challenge came from the Russians preternatural aim  but most of the vehicular combat was 
 rewarding. The last levels ack-ack sequence was a blast, like a good game of Missile Command rendered 
 in 3D. However, the adrenaline it generated was misspent on the blimp battle that followed, the 
 fun of which was hamstrung by ridiculous ammo and fuel supply limitations.
  
  Eagles interminable cutscenes of lifeless still-frames borrowed from a film about terrible accents 
 played on an old, broken cinematograph were a mistake. Although the games story arc of recovering 
 the rightful heir to the Russian throne worked just fine, the method in which it was told was just 
 plain bad. I would even prefer the timeworn Doom-style scrolling text exposition to watching a 
 sepia-toned slideshow of inert photos.
  
  Overall, Codename Eagle provided a gratifying sandbox experience in which I got to play with a 
 decent variety of cars and truck and things that go. The game still holds value as an evolutionary 
 step toward the intoxicating range-roving freedom found in more modern titles. Although Eagles 
 infantry combat was underdeveloped and the opportunities for wanton destruction by land, sea, or 
 air were limited, a few quirky and enjoyable situations will keep this title out of mothballs for 
 at least one more playthrough in the future. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CFObiwan
Rating: 9.2
Date: Feb 12, 2006 10:30 am PT
Review:  All I can say is that Codename Eagle really is a classic game that has the best gameplay online 
 I have seen, not so much for its graphics and quality as you have to remember this is an older 
 game, but for the sheer fun and also the community! visit the forum now at http://cebf. ws and get 
 playing Codename Eagle Now!
  
  There is also much information about this game and many fan websites about with plenty of screenshots, 
 it is definately worth obtaining a copy of this and giving it a try! They certainly dont make them 
 Like they used to!! !! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rodrigodc01
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 14, 2006 7:53 am PT
Review:  FIRST of all dont give much atention to gamespots review of CE , they need to play the game a 
 lit bit first as said in the other review CE is in fact what you could call the first version of 
 battlefield 1942 , just play both and you will see that bf1942 is the evolution of CE 
  
  Now lets talk about the game , CE is a ww1 based game the first one to really make the use of vehicles 
 something really fun , 
  
  Single player 
  
  The sp part of the game is not the best thing you ever laid your eyes on but it have a few great 
 moments like when you chase planes on canyon use bombers on run away using a stolen truck , quite 
 fun but since the ai is not the brightest ting is this world replay value is really low in the 
 end sp is good as a training for multiplayer wich is the strong part of CE 
  
  Multiplayer 
  
  The strong part of the game lots of fun tons of vehicles included (even a zepelin) 
 but before playing the game make sure you patch it to version 1.42 wich is the last unofficial 
 patch for the game , this patch fix lots of things and took the game to the nest level , well after 
 you patch it its all about fun the game have really bit maps really good for vehicles fights (just 
 for you to get and ideia some CE maps are bigger than some star wars battlefront 2 maps you can 
 have a tank fight , plane chasing , and besides the fact the develover comunity has moved to bf1942 
 you can find a lot stuff for codename eagle the best maps around are the hoth battle , a map where 
 you have 2 flying bases with planes and tanks (for internal defense ) with a huge ocean -and if 
 someone hits you u can parashute to the water and take a plane that is landed over a hangar and 
 fly back to the action 
  
  Graphics 
  
  Not the best thing is this world but remenber this is a 5 year more or less game , CE graphics 
 are perfect for low end machines i start playing it ona duron 1200 128mb ram 32 onboard video wich 
 i can say is the minimun for running the game, the best is a 256 mb and 64 video card altough you 
 can run it really well on a 256 mb ram with a 16 mb video card ( laptop toshiba celeron 1200 256 
 ram 16 mb video card ) 
  
  MODS 
  
  AS I SAID THERES A LOT STUFF FOR CE , AND EVEN THE STOCK MAPS THAT COME WITH THE GAME ARE REALLY 
 FUN AND BIG , MAKING THEM REALLY GOOD FOR VEHICLES USE
  
  So if have a low end system and cant run bf1942 buy it this is a great game non-realistic but 
 fun , and if have a high end system buy it too its good to play it when you get tired of bf1942 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tarzyz
Rating: 7.1
Date: Jan 2, 2006 11:37 am PT
Review:  Before Battlefield was made, there was Codename Eagle. 
  The creators of the most played and known online battle-game "Battlefield 1942" and "Battlefield 
 2" created Codename Eagle in 1999 before these games.
  
  It's easy to see when you play multiplayer. Lots of tanks and planes to play it was amazingly fun. 
 However this game got alot of bad reviews so its rare to play with anyone online when it was released.
 
  
  Still it was enjoyable even with 2-3 other humans online.
  
  Singleplayer wasn't anything to speak off. But even today Battlefield 1942 and battlefield 2 dont 
 have singleplayer to speak off either, just simple bot matches. It's all multiplayer.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: AronBk
Rating: 7.4
Date: Sep 10, 2004 9:42 pm PT
Review:  Lets face it, Codename: Eagle has a number of flaws that already has been mentioned. Awkward would 
 probably be a good word to describe the overall gaming experience. The vehicles make the games 
 single player campaign just barely worthwhile, but its in multiplayer the game shows its right 
 side. I can honestly say that I have never had so much fun with a game.
  
  You have to remember that Codename: Eagle predates massive battlefield simulations like Operation: 
 Flashpoint and Battlefield: 1942 with a couple of years. So when the game was released back in 
 1999, it was really a unique and fun playing experience when you could jump into and drive any 
 of the games vehicles. Codename: Eagles total lack of realism make things even funnier. You can 
 jump out of a plane and let the very same plane crash into your opponent. Highly enjoyable! And 
 who could possibly resist a game with an enormous flyable zeppelin?
  
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
