-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Cold Zero: No Mercy
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/action/coldzero/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Sep  2, 2003
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7.3
Critic Score: 6.3, 22 Review (s)
User Score: 7.1, 102 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Encore Software, Inc.
Developer: JoWood
Genre: Modern Shooter
Date:     Aug 22, 2003
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
The combination of elements from several different genres -- action, strategy, and role-playing -- works 
 to keep things interesting in Cold Zero. 

  An intriguing blend of action, real-time strategy, and role-playing elements, JoWood's isometric 
 third-person shooter Cold Zero: No Mercy superficially resembles games like X-COM and Jagged Alliance 
 and is an often trigger-happy journey through the trials and tribulations of a hired mercenary. 
 The game is violent, challenging, alternately thoughtful and fast-paced, and at times highly addictive. 
 However, it's hampered by problematic camera controls and some other shortcomings, as well as action 
 that can be overly difficult and repetitive. But if you don't mind the occasional frustration, 
 and you relish the thought of wasting all sorts of baddies from an overhead vantage point while 
 also taking time to perform some RPG-like day-to-day chores of a soldier of fortune, Cold Zero 
 may be just the thing for you.  

          Despite its emphasis on strategy, Cold Zero delivers a very high body count.     

  
 In Cold Zero, you direct the actions of one man, John McAffrey, an ex-cop expelled from the force 
 for mistakenly shooting an innocent civilian and now in charge of his own private detective agency. 
 McAffrey's new business is suffering mightily from his past indiscretion, and he soon finds himself 
 flat-out broke and forced into working for a purported Mafia kingpin. He does not fight the law -- in 
 fact, McAffrey begins the game as an essentially decent sort who agrees to his current gig only 
 under the threat of violence and because he believes he's battling other hoods. The game kicks 
 off in McAffrey's new digs, a sorry tenement in an odd little neighborhood surrounded by gun shops, 
 target ranges, bars, and pawnbrokers.  

  You'll navigate each level primarily using the mouse, pointing and clicking to determine the direction 
 and distance you want to move. Hold the Ctrl key down while clicking behind or on either side of 
 McAffrey and you'll shuffle backward or perform strafing-type lateral maneuvers. However, you can't 
 freely climb or descend. If you want to move vertically, the obstacle in question must be determined 
 by the game to be scalable. If it is, the icon will deviate from its original form to show you 
 that climbing or descending is possible.  

  One of the real keys to the game is stealth. In Cold Zero, your enemies react intelligently to 
 your maneuvers, jumping into battle mode when you venture into eyeshot or even when you make an 
 inadvertent noise. To help combat their awareness, you can propel yourself in one of four different 
 modes. If speed is of the essence, you can run. You can also walk, walk  cautiously , and sneak -- all 
 of which are selectable via icons in the omnipresent control panel at the base of the screen. If 
 you select the latter, you'll hunker down near the ground and shuffle very quietly and oh-so-slowly 
 from place to place. Approach someone from behind while in this position, and there's a good chance 
 you'll get within inches and quite possibly reel off enough shots to kill him before he's even 
 had a chance to move.  

  What you won't want to do when nearing an enemy is swap or reload your weapon -- both actions produce 
 enough noise to alert everyone in the vicinity of your presence. A common practice is to reload 
 or rearm well away from the action, sneak up for a few good shots, then run away quickly to hide 
 as other thugs hear and swarm toward the gunfire. Another viable option is to leave your pistols 
 and rifles and submachine guns holstered and instead make use of your silent weapons -- namely, your 
 own hard-knuckled fist, assorted knives and razors, and perhaps even a baseball bat. Of the hundred-or-so 
 real-world armaments you can either purchase at the gun shop, snatch from semisecret stashes, or 
 remove from the prone bodies of your victims, several are virtually noiseless.  

          Shoot someone who begs to be spared, and you may get blown to fragments by a stash of grenades. 
     

  Unlike most first-person action games, Cold Zero limits the number of weapons and other inventory 
 items you can carry. You can still carry an unrealistically large number, to be sure, and you can 
 also pack useful objects, such as silencers and telescopic sights and defensive paraphernalia like 
 instantly healing medicine kits, bullet-proof vests, various keys, and much more. You may even 
 find a fine gold watch or pornographic magazine to sell later at the local pawnshop. In any case, 
 the more you haul around, the slower you'll move and the less sneaking or running you can do. And 
 if you horde a ton of stuff, especially when your health is low, you won't be able to move at all. 

  Fortunately for those who like to travel light, the game allows you to learn as you play. By accomplishing 
 certain tasks or successfully negotiating certain areas, you're awarded a number of skill points, 
 which you can then distribute among several key categories. If, for example, you're quickly bored 
 by searching for elusive door keys, you can apply your skill points toward a better understanding 
 of technology. Soon, you'll be opening locked doors through sheer knowledge and skill. Or you can 
 allocate those points toward your overall strength and thus become so powerful that you can win 
 fistfights with just a couple of blows.     

  One other very important facet is Cold Zero's custom controllable camera, manipulated by pressing 
 down on the mousewheel or center mouse button and moving the mouse. Although by default it follows 
 you through your mission, you can also instruct it to pan independently throughout a level to get 
 a better look at things while you hide stealthily in the shadows. You can turn it and rotate it 
 and move it about quite freely.  

          At many points in Cold Zero, you'll wish for a bit more liberty in the camera options. 
     

  However, it doesn't turn automatically when you turn, nor will it automatically zoom in when it 
 needs to, pan out where appropriate, or ever permit even a quasi-first-person view. Perhaps one 
 of the most poorly implemented concepts in the game, the Cold Zero camera consistently requires 
 manual control. You'll often find yourself struggling to spin or redirect the camera merely to 
 get a halfway decent view of your adversary among all the scenery and foliage that keeps popping 
 up. All the while, you're also trying to target and eliminate the enemy combatant, reload and rearm, 
 or move one way or another. Ultimately, you'll find yourself dead more often than you should be. 
 Indeed, few games kill off the central character so regularly.  

  It is fortunate, then, that on-the-fly saves are permitted. Even so, you're forced to tolerate 
 several convoluted menu screens and a half-minute or so of reload whenever you do die and begin 
 the level again or jump back to your last save. Moreover, when you do restart a level, you must 
 manually fast-forward through the accompanying cutscenes, a process that can last up to another 
 half-minute. Such downtime is not a good thing, especially when you'll endure it so often.  

  Despite its strategic premise and the wide variety of RPG-like actions you must enact to work 
 your way through the game, Cold Zero is most often a monument to gunplay. Most levels are festooned 
 with enemies, in much the same manner as a traditional first-person shooter. You'll attempt to 
 talk your way out of situations, but usually to no avail. Even in your hometown before you travel 
 to the many unique destinations Cold Zero offers, you'll scurry about trying to yap to anyone who 
 might listen, doing your best to see beyond the kill-or-be-killed philosophy. It most often won't 
 work.  

  Furthermore, you'll soon realize that each of the 16 levels, despite fresh visuals and the game's 
 many nonshooting moments, ultimately plays out in a similar fashion to the last. That sense of 
 dj vu will come over you when you enter a new area and are once again greeted by two 
 or three dozen red blips on your overhead map, each symbolizing a bad guy. Some are dressed one 
 way; others are dressed completely differently. They'll often speak in foreign tongues. And the 
 mission objectives vary from hostage rescues to item retrieval to bomb defusing. Sometimes you'll 
 even need to throw a victim's body over your shoulder and place it in a nearby crate so it doesn't 
 attract the attention of his cronies. But in the end, you may feel like you've been down the same 
 road one too many times, once again mowing down a gaggle of baddies in much the same methodical 
 manner you've done so many times before. This sense of repetition permeates Cold Zero, even as 
 the plot develops and you come to realize what exactly Cold Zero is.  

  There are other concerns. Though the game stresses the operational and ordnance distinctions between 
 weapons and the need to keep them in good order -- by clicking the technology icon and placing the 
 cursor on the gun you need fixed -- targeting seems erratic. Surely due in part to the fact that 
 you're constantly shooting from the hip rather than drawing a bead from a first-person view, you 
 may hit distant targets one moment then miss point-blank opportunities the next.  

  Nor is the AI perfect. Despite their excellent reactionary skills, they'll behave somewhat robotically 
 when you're not nearby, pacing the same few meters in the same pattern over and over again. If 
 you use the free-floating camera to scan the level first and learn what they're all doing, you 
 can slowly and systematically work your way through them, waiting until each one has separated 
 himself far enough from his buddies that your attack won't draw suspicion. Even so, you will die 
 frequently, particularly since some of your foes are annoyingly able to shoot through walls and 
 around corners.  

  And certainly Cold Zero isn't for everyone. Fans of pure action will undoubtedly find some aspects 
 of the game -- such as those times when McAffrey painstakingly tries to pick a lock or repair a weapon, 
 or when he sits in an easy chair for a minute or more just to recharge his health -- to be a bit 
 dull. Conversely, strict strategy gamers may find much of the bang-bang craziness too fast and 
 furious. And newcomers will certainly come to understand that the game is not a walk in the park. 
 Even on its "easy" setting, Cold Zero isn't easy.  

  Thankfully, the game's visuals aren't so repetitive. You'll find yourself in a jungle one moment, 
 a dilapidated mine shaft the next, and a big city soon thereafter. Each environment is attractively 
 rendered, with believable lighting and tons of detail. The designer, Encore Software, clearly went 
 beyond the call of duty to render incidental items in secondary areas that you may not ever visit. 
 It also developed a neat system whereby rooftops and other visual barriers magically evaporate 
 to allow you an unimpeded view inside. And, if you just want to break stuff, the game obliges by 
 delivering an array of blow-apart boxes, exploding barrels, and more.  

  Sound is definitely one of Cold Zero's strong suits. The music is especially enjoyable, dynamically 
 responding to the current situation by swelling up dramatically when things get sticky and lowering 
 to a peaceful, temperate passage when the going is easy. Sound effects, including the clatter of 
 dropped weapons and ammo, the whoosh of a windstorm, and the clip-clop of distant footsteps and 
 voices, emanate from precisely the direction they should. However, voice acting is somewhat suspect. 
 Most characters are just too over the top, and many are obviously voiced by the same performer. 

          Our anti-hero, John McAffrey, opens a safe and finds a few more items for his already burgeoning 
 inventory.     

  Multiplayer Cold Zero can support a maximum of 16 competitors via either LAN or the Internet. Though 
 we were unable to locate any active servers in time for this review, we did set up a small team-based 
 LAN game and found the action to be quite a bit more fast and furious than during solo play.  

 
  Though it's rough around the edges, Cold Zero is nevertheless an adventurous and generally likeable 
 game. Yes, you'll die way too often. And you'll definitely be forced to constantly rely on quick 
 saves. Yet the combination of elements from several different genres -- action, strategy, and role-playing -- works 
 to keep things interesting. When flaws in one are discovered, you always have something else to 
 fall back on. If you're not a hardcore purist in any of the three genres, and if you can forgive 
 its imperfections, you'll find that Cold Zero is an involving, gleefully violent game.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (3 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Azghouls
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 19, 2008 5:55 am PT
Review:  Gameplay 8
  Graphics 7
  Sounds 6
  Value 8
  Tilt 8
  
  Im a huge fan of open-ended missions. You know, the ones that even though the story is linear 
 (A to B) , during the course of these missions, you can do whatever you want, whenever the time; 
 just randomly waltz through the town, city, Martian landscapes and whatever else and checking out 
 the scenery whilst carry on the mission at hand. Cold Zero has done exactly that. It delivered 
 that open-ended mission style game play yet still manages to get the player stay 
 on track. Sure, it has its bumps however its a good game thats worth checking out.
 
  
  The story starts as you, being a cop; went against orders from your superiors of hold-fire during 
 a hostage standoff. Taking that Cold Zero shot resulted in killing the hostage. Going 
 solo and needed for cash, your ever-forgiving girlfriend located a 'snatch-and-grab the hostage' 
 case where you happen to succeed only to realise you ticked off the mafia instead. And what's the 
 best thing to do in this situation? Work for the mafia of course. And this is where you discover 
 the 'true' intensions of the mafia; locating the cool and soothing drug called 'Cold Zero'.
  
  As the saying goes Theres more than one way to skin a cat sums up the 
 game play style of Cold Zero as you are practically in charge of the assault you wish to participate 
 (e. g. stealth, all out blazing etc) . That said, take note of the developers reward system as its 
 one of the best I have ever encountered. The experience you'll accumulate determines the style 
 of game play you choose. Knock an enemy unconscious will score more experience than killing them 
 (actually three times more) . Leave the enemy alone (i. e. escaping the area) scores slightly less 
 than knocking them unconscious. So you can see that it's worth while knocking your opponents out 
 (and carry their body out of sight) than cold-blooded killing. I personally used this option however 
 considering the game is 'rough around the edges' I totally maxed out my stats approximately two-thirds 
 into the game.
  
  The locations are interesting enough as you started off at the dockside (with plenty of shadows 
 to hide into) to airfields to mines to dense jungles. Of course the different maps provided different 
 ways of tackling the missions yet I thought the premise of the missions can be a little more interesting 
 (there is so much one can take of locating some documents or saving some sorry a$$ loser) . The 
 game also boasts some phenomenal amount of weapons equally with phenomenal amounts of ammo types. 
 However the downer is that all the ammo graphically looks the same so it will be a case of guessing 
 what ammo belongs to what weapon. And what makes things a little worse is there is no automatic 
 reloads unless you hit the appropriate key. Another words, don't get caught with your pants down.
 
  
  The camera angles are at times annoying. Being isometric, you really cannot zoom in too close or 
 too far and the camera angles are really not much at all (maybe 30 degrees?) and not only that, 
 there is no 'inverse mouse' option. The upside to all this is that you can always view the entire 
 map without that 'wall-of-fog' effect.
  
  Experience points can be spend on either increasing your personal stats or skills (five in each 
 category) however as mentioned above, there will be a time where you're totally maxed out all your 
 stats and collecting experience points thereafter will become a pointless exercise. However this 
 does not stop the satisfaction of passing the mission with absolutely no alerts!
  
  At first I raised a quizzical eye brow about the graphics. Initial glance it comes across visually 
 unhealthy for a 2003 game. However my 'artistic' wisdom materialised and the graphics really gave 
 the impression of being like pleasantly penciled sketches. I was quite impressed of the artistic 
 impressions of the trees, buildings and even roads. Pleasurable water colour effects make the game 
 escape the 'Top Gun' eighties visuals and into a hybrid 1880s/1980s feel (as strange as it may 
 seems) coupled with fluent people movements makes it an enjoyable experience.
  
  The scores themselves, even though sounds pleasant enough feels like it came straight out of the 
 movie 'Top Gun' and the voice acting seems a little bland. I swear I could have heard main character 
 yawning (or maybe it's just him talking) . The overall sound effects were enough to be acknowledged 
 however it's certainly not the highlights of the game.
  
  Depending on the styles of game play dictates the length of the game. For me, the majority of the 
 game, stealth was my forte and it took me on average two hours per mission and considering there 
 are fifteen missions overall it took me around the thirty hours mark. However stealth game play, 
 even though very satisfying will tax your time and eventually does become repetitive, you want 
 your enemies to eat some bullets. I really couldn't comment on the multiplayer aspects of the game 
 as 1) being the only player on the server serves little purpose and 2) no one heard of this game. 
 All I can say is that I was wondering around in some town trying to exit the map (as this was dictated 
 to me) . As a matter of interest, I managed to exit the map without great difficulty.
  
  Overall, Cold Zero is a really satisfying game as it does produce that heart-pounding moments as 
 it offers different types of game play (e. g. stealth, commando, gun slinger, Rambo style etc) . 
 The options of managing your own skills places a good emphasis on role-playing however like many 
 of Jowood's games, a little spicing up can make a game from good to great. 
  
  PS: Cold Zero got to change that newspaper article at the beginning and the end of the game. The 
 headlines are fine however the main content states something about Tiger Woods. Im guessing 
 maybe the developers are a fan of Tiger Woods. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KingLim
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 1, 2007 8:40 am PT
Review:  I played Cold Zero a few years back and I'm still engrossed in it today. The real reason why CZ 
 is so addictive to me even though I completed it 3 times already via all the difficulty settings 
 is because of it's nostalgic and retro style of presentation, right from the isometric (though it's 
 3D manipulative) 3rd person shooter genre to the array of weapons that would make even Neo Anderson 
 from The Matrix jealous. .
  
  Though there are a lot of unpolished factors in the game including the dull plot and sometimes 
 lame mission scenarios, JoWood made up for it by bringing in almost every post-WWII weapon the 
 world could come up with. This is the winning factor about this game (this aspect reminds me of 
 Fallout 2 though!) , where the details of the weapons are meticulously installed, from each unique 
 appearance and sound down to the weight encumbrance and ammunition used, it's like an encyclopedia 
 software for Guns and Ammo! Wicked!.
  
  The replay value sometimes simply comes down to the collectible side of this game, where in one, 
 I collect all the pistols I can find/buy, and in the other, all the rifles I can scoop up. It's 
 so silly and downright fun how you can make the best use of this game. Even though these years 
 we have tons of great shooter games lying around, Cold Zero is my highest replayed game so far. 
 My only regret is that I took too long to decide to write a review for it to justify what a great 
 game this is for all those gamers out there who like this genre.
  
  KingLim 
::::::

::::::
UserName: khatibi22
Rating: 7.8
Date: Oct 20, 2006 11:49 am PT
Review:  In this amusing exciting tactical action adventure game, you play the role of John Mcaffrey a former 
 cop who was laid off the Police after accidentally killing a hostage.
  He is now operating some kind of one man mercenary/headhunting
  service, currently working for 
 a Mafia boss tracing a deadly chemicals
  called OldZero which the bad guys want to make evil use of it.
  Mcaffrey follows their traces 
 all around especially in south America,
  in 16 good looking interesting and very well designed levels,
  which makes the player eager to 
 see how the next level looks like.
  unlike many similar game who just draw a handful
  object und put them in every level, the levels has been designed in affectionate full detail creating 
 a conceivable Atmosphere.
  There is also a big variety of weapons you can either buy from
  a shop in the city, find it in enemy territories or from the enemies you have eliminated. unlike 
 many other games which they are different Models but thefunction is always the same, every single 
 weapon
  practically functions in a totally different manner and is aimed for a specific Mission.
  Although 
 ColdZero is quite interesting to play, there are some issues which
  really disturbs the player. For example once you heard the briefing for the coming mission, there 
 is no way to go back to it again. or you don't know what kind of place you are heading to (or you 
 have forgotten) in order to take the appropriate equipments, clothing, etc.
  Although there is not much talking in this game, the voice acting is not
  good. (I have played 
 the German version, maybe the English one is better) .
  The camera is not so good either, each time you load, you don't get a view
  of your main figure! 
 you see rooftops, walls trees etc and you have to move
  the angel to find your hero!
  ColdZero reminds me a lot of Desperadoes in many ways, although the plot
  is different and the 
 story is a modern day drug dealing.
  The protagonist in Desperados was much more believable and real,
  comparing to the one in CZ 
 which is more or less like just a computer
  generated animation figure.
  ColdZero is a rather hard game and should be played by experienced gamers.
  I personaly learned 
 how it should be played, when I was almost at the end! But all in all I do recommend ColdZero, 
 this is a game which can certainly
  satisfy a variety of different tastes RPG fans, A/A fans, Tactic shooters
  etc.
  K22 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
