-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Cold War
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/action/coldwar/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Decent stealth action mechanics, along with some neat gadgets to play with.
 Storyline keeps you guessing and throws in a few good surprises.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Enemy artificial intelligence is predictable but isn't believable.
 Not much variety or interest in level design.
 Little lasting value.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Nov  7, 2005
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 6.5
Critic Score: 5.9, 24 Review (s)
User Score: 7.4, 248 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: DreamCatcher Interactive
Developer: Mindware Studios
Genre: Historic First-Person...
Date:     Sep 27, 2005
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Splinter Cell fans will be in for a familiar experience in Cold War, a competent but unremarkable 
 stealth action game that puts you in the middle of a Soviet conspiracy. 

  Cold War is a stealth action game that owes a debt to the popular Splinter Cell series, from which 
 it borrows its third-person perspective, as well as its interface and many play mechanics. However, 
 while Splinter Cell casts you as a highly trained ultrasecret agent, in Cold War you play as a 
 sarcastic journalist who's in the wrong place at the wrong time. But he's not as wimpy as he sounds, 
 because he gets to use a cool X-ray camera and a variety of homebrewed gadgets to survive -- and 
 maybe he'll thwart a power-hungry Russian madman in the process. Yet while Cold War features some 
 pretty impressive graphics and a decent story, the predictable enemies you'll face and the limited 
 number of environments you'll visit prevent the game from being particularly exciting.  

          It's a case of mistaken identity as journalist Matt Carter is mistaken for a top secret 
 splinter cell.     

  The game takes place in the mid-'80s, toward the end of the titular conflict between the United 
 States and the Soviet Union. You play as Matthew Carter, who arrives in Moscow to chase the lead 
 of a lifetime. But Carter unwittingly becomes part of a sinister plot when his camera is replaced 
 with a high-tech surveillance device at customs. Soon enough, Carter is framed for conspiracy to 
 assassinate the Soviet president and must join forces with the president's enigmatic confidant 
 (who's also on the run for similar reasons) to clear his name and escape with his life. The story 
 in Cold War unfolds using graphic-novel-style cinematic cutscenes in between missions, as well 
 as some other cutscenes and voice-over during the missions themselves. The dialogue and voice work 
 aren't remarkable, and the story takes some implausible turns, but it ultimately offers some good 
 twists and a satisfying resolution when all is said and done.  

  The action isn't as original as the storyline. As Carter, you'll mostly need to stick to shadows, 
 sneaking around in the darkness and waiting for your foes to turn their backs to you so you can 
 run up and knock them out. Soon enough, you'll replace the knockout punches with gunshots to the 
 head. You can crouch and creep along carefully to remain quiet and hidden, but even when you're 
 running at full speed, you'll move quite slowly. (Carter's got this rather casual-looking jog, 
 though he's capable of sprinting for brief periods of time.) The overall look and mechanics are 
 unmistakably similar to Splinter Cell, though Carter isn't as versatile or maneuverable as Sam 
 Fisher. Carter can't jump and can't take enemies hostage, and it takes only a couple of bullets 
 at close range to knock him dead. On the other hand, he's a surprisingly good shot with a pistol 
 or an AK-47, and he's also able to create a variety of useful gadgets that can give him the upper 
 hand against his foes.  

          Your X-ray camera lets you see right through walls and people, not just through their clothes. 
     

  Gadget-building is one of Cold War's unique aspects of play, and it's fairly interesting. Basically, 
 Carter will scrounge up all kinds of junk during his adventure, and this junk may be instantly 
 combined to form new stuff. During the course of the game, you'll find documents that earn you 
 tech points, with which you can unlock new gadget formulas (you must unlock lower-level gadgets 
 to get to the higher-level ones) . It's pretty absurd how often you'll find things like anesthetics 
 just lying around, and it's stranger still that the recipes are so simple. For example, nonlethal 
 rubber bullets can be created just by combining a plastic bottle with regular ammo. However, if 
 you don't think about it too much, you'll probably appreciate that this system gives you some good 
 options, even though most of those options really aren't necessary. You can build things like remote-detonated 
 bombs or mines that release knockout gas, but then again, you can just shoot your way through the 
 vast majority of situations. So why bother doing things the hard way?  

  Like most stealth games seem to do, Cold War suggests that violence should be a last resort, and 
 yet lethal force turns out to be the simplest solution to most of the game's challenges (at least 
 on the normal difficulty mode) . If you take the time to creep up behind a foe to knock him out, 
 beware that he'll eventually come to -- and he might well blast you when you're inevitably forced 
 to backtrack through one of the game's corridor-filled levels. But if you shoot him in the face, 
 there's no waking up from that dirt nap.     

   

  Carter's accurate, and his foes are nearsighted and near-deaf, so it's possible to shoot an enemy 
 at fairly close range (one shot, one kill) while another foe down the hall won't pay any notice, 
 despite the roar of the pistol or rifle. You'll never face more than several foes at a time, either, 
 and while they'll fire at you from behind cover if they notice you, that's about the extent of 
 their sophistication. Their reaction times and accuracy are sometimes inhumanly good, so they can 
 certainly be deadly, but the foes in Cold War are not very impressive on the whole. You'll hear 
 them spouting the same catchphrases as they search for you, and there are only a few different-looking 
 enemy types in the game.  

          Some trigger-happy enemies can make short work of you, but Cold War mostly isn't very difficult. 
     

  The environmental security hazards in Cold War are even less impressive. You'll encounter a handful 
 of video cameras and laser fences, but these are all easily bypassed. Despite how the game takes 
 place in some highly restricted locations -- the Kremlin, a prison, and a nuclear power plant -- you 
 just don't get the impression that these places are well equipped to prevent an intrusion... even 
 by a scrawny, ill-equipped interloper like Carter. The relative simplicity of the game's settings 
 and the game's propensity to recycle large portions of the environments from level to level contribute 
 heavily to a whole "Splinter Cell Lite" feel.  

  Cold War does have a few other mechanics that help keep things interesting enough, such as how 
 you'll sometimes be partnered up with another character who must be defended and who'll advance 
 to your position at your request. It tends to be quite easy to keep these partner characters out 
 of trouble to clear a path for them before making them run for cover, though. Also, there's that 
 X-ray camera of yours, which is most useful for its ability to let you see through walls, though 
 you can also use it to knock out human targets with some sort of radioactive flash. However, just 
 letting you see what's coming up ahead (or above or below, in some cases) is a powerful ability 
 in itself. The effect of the X-ray camera looks good, and it's a nifty device to get to use throughout 
 most of the game, even if it isn't often necessary.  

  Some awkward animations prevent Cold War from being particularly great-looking, but it otherwise 
 features some fancy lighting effects and other special effects that help make for a generally attractive 
 appearance. Carter looks like a dope when he's running around, and he seems to just slide around 
 instead of walking or running when his weapon is drawn. But when you're just exploring the environments, 
 preferably with the help of your X-ray camera, you'll find that Cold War is pretty to look at, 
 if nothing else. Patrolling Spetsnaz troopers also thankfully look rather intimidating in their 
 night-vision helmets -- and you'll be seeing a lot of these guys later on. The game's audio is serviceable 
 but nothing special, from the voice acting, to the sound effects, to the music -- the latter of which 
 is rousing and everything, but it starts and stops very suddenly whenever Carter gets into combat 
 (and comes out of it) . Like in other stealth games, Cold War makes it far too easy for you to tell 
 when you're no longer in danger just by listening to when the music cuts off. If the musical cues 
 weren't so blatant, you might have needed to use that X-ray camera a bit more often to determine 
 when the coast is clear.  

          Now you can learn the real reason Yakov Smirnoff ran out of work.     

  The differences 
 between the Xbox and PC versions of Cold War are along the lines of what you'd probably expect. 
 The two versions are similar, but the PC one can run smoother and at a higher resolution (if you 
 have a fast system) . The content of the games is mostly identical, although the PC version offers 
 a few alternative modes of play in addition to the main story mode. These let you optionally race 
 through each level against time, avoid killing any opponents, and avoid raising too many alarms, 
 respectively. None of these options is all that compelling, though, especially because the main 
 game doesn't throw that much variety at you or keep any statistical record of your exploits. So 
 there's no good reason to revisit missions multiple times. Controls are fine in both cases. On 
 the Xbox, the movement controls are easier to get used to, while on the PC, it's easier to quickly 
 aim using your mouse. Both versions of the game unfortunately seem to seize up awkwardly when firefights 
 ensue, which can easily lead to you getting killed and which simply looks bad. Both versions also 
 let you quickly save your progress at any point, which can be used to mitigate a lot of the game's 
 tension and challenge.  

  Cold War does a reasonable job of copying conventional stealth action gameplay while presenting 
 a few twists and a story that's got some payoff at the end. If this style of tactical trial-and-error 
 gameplay is what you're into, then Cold War can be worth the eight-or-so hours it takes to play 
 from start to finish for the first time. But there are much better stealth games available, making 
 this one suitable mostly for those who've played them all and want more.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (6 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Im_bettr_than_u
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 10, 2007 8:01 pm PT
Review:  Cold war trys deeply to copy tom clancys splinter cell and they've done an ok job at it....
  in this game "sam fisher".. is replaced with a jounalist matt carter. who infiltrates a place in 
 soviet russia during the cold war..
  its:
  -full of gadgets
  -historical... ish..
  -fun
  -much like splinter cell
  its not very:
  -smartly done
  -nothing compared with splinter 
 cell
  -not hard
  annoyingly carter is unable to do the most basic stealth movs like a "hang on the wall" which is 
 annoying because when a guard is  u and u cant get out of his way.. and 
 he cant just pop out from behind walls and shoot as the enemies do.....
  and the guards in this place are stupid and cant hear very loud noises.. and this is ment to be 
 a steath game!!!!......
  but all in all its an ok game.... and fun.. ish..
  if u want add me on myspace my url is:
  
  i'll accept 
 all friend requests.. cos in need more friends.. lol!..
  later! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bulldawg8879
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 17, 2006 12:17 pm PT
Review:  Cold War is a game i went into with no real expectations other than hoping it was somewhat playable 
 and fun. The game although nothing original or unique is a very enjoyable stealth action game with 
 the beginning of the game focusing more on stealth and the later more like a third person shooter. 
 You play the game as a journalist Matt Carver who while on a routine story gets captured and put 
 in KGB prison. The games story revolves around a conspiracy to set off nucleur weapons and to overthrow 
 the Russian goverment. The games cutscenes are shown as still images which i believe are cell shaded. 
 Its not the best way to do it but it works. The gameplay is very fun and the controls are easy 
 to use. Near the beginning what you must do is sneak behind the enimies and knock them unconsious 
 then you have the option of injecting them with anesthetic which is a good idea since if you dont 
 they will be up and about pretty soon. One thing that sets this game apart from other games in 
 the stealth genre is your ability to create weapons and items out of stuff you find around the 
 levels like cans and batteries. You can create silencers with plastic bottles, rubber bullets for 
 incapacitating the enemies and so on. You are not allowed to kill anyone near the beginning and 
 its automatic mission failure if you do. Eventually you get the ak47 and can kill anyone except 
 for civilians. The games graphics are quite good although nothing that great. Alot of the levels 
 do have the same type of feel to them and same look. The character models are pretty good as well. 
 The sound effects and voice acting are good to and found nothing wrong with the voices.. Alot of 
 them have russian accents n such. The game will obviously be compared to splinter cell since it 
 shares alot of similarities with it. The game does have a somewhat me to average game feel to it 
 but that doesnt stop it from being a fun game thats worth playing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: D1rty_Dawg
Rating: 4
Date: Mar 2, 2006 1:12 pm PT
Review:  This game is trying to be something that the budget that was allocated to make it, just wasn't 
 enough.
  
  You are basically a reporter that has uncovered a story and in order to survive yourself and save 
 someone important (I won't spoil the story) you have to behave like some sort of spy. The game 
 gets you making the most ridiculous gadgets, things that defy belief. The worst one is the lunchbox 
 you have to pack with explosives and anaesthetics that has the ability to not only blow things 
 up but knock out anyone near to it.
  
  Essentially what spoiled it for me was that they have tried to write a slick story but it looks 
 more like a joke. Everything defies belief and is actually a bit boring. You will find it hard 
 to keep ploughing on through this game, mainly because it is so far fetched but it may appeal to 
 someone. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ChickenMcBastrd
Rating: 7
Date: Feb 27, 2006 6:19 pm PT
Review:  As featured on loadedinc. com...
  
  It doesnt seem all that long ago that an Iron Curtain was draped over Eastern Europe, that Berlin 
 was split in two, and that the worlds two superpowers could have destroyed the planet 50 times 
 over. Seventeen years after the collapse of the wall the memories are beginning to fade but every 
 now and then we get little reminders of the world that once was. Cold War is one of those reminders, 
 and while it doesnt reinvent the stealth-action genre, it adds enough to separate it from the 
 Splinter Cells weve all come to know and love.
  
  But while Sam Fischer is a trained assassin who can kill a man twenty-seven times with his thumbs, 
 you play as a less foreboding figure. Matthew Carter is just a run-of-the-mill reporter chasing 
 down a story in the heart of old Soviet Russia. Little does he know that hes a pawn in a massive 
 conspiracy that wants to shake up the motherlands reformist government and he soon finds himself 
 sitting behind bars in a not-so-friendly Soviet prison. Its a typical tale of a dubious plot that 
 must be stopped at all costs and only Carter and the allies he makes along the way can save the 
 day. The plot isnt a standout but its enough to move the action along from scene to scene.
  
  That action borrows heavily from stealth games weve all played before. Carter will spend lots 
 of times maneuvering in the shadows, distracting guards, and positioning himself for the takedown. 
 The stealth-meter lets you know how visible you are and will change depending on the amount of 
 light, whether youre standing or crouching, and if youre running or walking. A quick scroll of 
 the wheel changes your walking speed and while jogging across metal walkways will draw the ire 
 of nearby guards, tiptoeing around every corner will ensure no shots come your way.
  
  Carters ace-in-the-hole though is his ability to construct useful and deadly objects out of just 
 about anything. As he moves from room to room and level to level he finds cans, bottles, screws, 
 and other household items that he can build mines, non-lethal bullets, luring devices, gun upgrades, 
 and generally act as a way for Carter to become a more effective hunter. To build a certain object 
 he needs tech points, which are acquired by searching civilians and finding folders, briefcases, 
 and document tubes spread around the various levels. Aside from what he can build and scavenge 
 from guards, Carter is also armed with a unique camera.
  
  Possessing an x-ray ability, it adds a unique perspective, literally, into the game. With his camera 
 he can see through walls, up floors, around corners, and just about everywhere else to find out 
 where enemies are. Objects like fire extinguishers, fuel cans, and bottles of vodka are also highlighted 
 and can be destroyed with a shot of radioactive waves from said camera which explode and disable 
 any nearby enemies. Its a novel concept but makes levels boil down to their most basic of difficulty. 
 Any suspense about entering an unfamiliar room is destroyed since you can immediately tell if anyone 
 is in it or not. Youll also find yourself not using the special ability of the camera once guns 
 come in to play.
  
  Youre not pressured to use your special weapons and gadgets save a few specific areas where youre 
 timed or when any alarm will trigger failure. The majority of the game you can simply shoot up 
 the place with no penalty. Why waste your time setting up elaborate traps if unloading a single 
 clip from your AK-47 will work just as well? Its during the firefights that Cold War suffers as 
 a stealth-action game and seems more suited for standard 3rd-person shooting. The game doesnt 
 exactly dissuade you from taking this course of action either, as knocking out an enemy only leaves 
 them out cold for a few minutes. 
  
  Due to the nature of the game and its repetitive levels, its likely youll come across the same 
 guard two or even three times, meaning youll want the first time you eliminate a patrol be the 
 last, lest you are harassed again in later objectives. And you will come across the same room many 
 times. While Cold War does take place in a number of locations including a mausoleum deep inside 
 Moscow, a KGB prison complex, and the Chernobyl nuclear reactor, missions are spread three-to-four 
 per map. Youll pass the same paintings, the same crawl spaces, and the same maintenance ladders 
 many times before you move on to a new locale. Dont worry about newly-spawned guards raising the 
 alarm since they dont seem to care that their comrades lie dead.
  
  When mission locations overlap, the inadequacies of the AI stand out. Bodies left out in the open 
 in one mission will remain there for the next. One would think that when enemy guards find a dead 
 body it would be a cause for concernwell one would be wrong. The AI will stroll past any number 
 of previously deceased corpses like nothing is happening but will go into alert mode if they find 
 anyone dead from the current mission. Its also too easy to fool an enemy that feels pre-scripted. 
 Walking near an enemy fast enough will make some noise and anyone nearby will immediately perk 
 up and audibly indicate that they hear you. They dont look around in the direction of the noise, 
 they just stare straight ahead. Yet activate a luring device, basically an alarm clock, and the 
 same guard will walk around, looking in every direction trying to figure out what the sound was. 
 This selective investigation makes it too easy to manipulate the enemy and makes the AI a pushover 
 at times, even more in the dark.
  
  And thanks to a great graphics engine that darkness is pulled off quite nicely. There arent the 
 pitch-black shadows of Splinter Cell but rather a gentle dark-blue hue to the unlit areas. It makes 
 maneuvering easier and objects and enemies better to see. This was likely the most practical way 
 to get a sense of darkness without including night vision. It also has to be said that Cold War 
 is an impressive-looking game with all character models looking well-defined and adequately textured. 
 Every location shares this distinction from the plush carpet floors of KBG offices to the dank, 
 concrete walls of Chernobyl. Perhaps the best of the game is the visual style of the cut scenes, 
 which are done in a cell-shaded narrated slideshow and offers players a new way of looking at the 
 game. It wont win any awards for its technical prowess but in this case the cool factor is enough 
 to win brownie points.
  
  The audio work doesnt fare as well, featuring a bland soundtrack that goes up tempo at the appropriate 
 time to signal an increase in the action. Eventually youll just get tired of the same old songs 
 playing over and over cueing you in to the action. On the other hand the voice work seems professionally 
 done with the actors being able to communicate emotions in a variety of situations. When playing 
 as Carter there are times when hell shout out frustrating obscenities and you can completely understand 
 why. Sound effects are great from the reloading of the AK-47 to the muffled shots of a silenced 
 pistol.
  
  Once youve completed the game and have seen everything there is you have the option of going back 
 into several different play modes. These vary from timed missions to completing a stage without 
 raising any alarms but each one of these modes is forgettable. After the first completion youll 
 find theres very little reason to go back.
  
  When its all said and done, Cold War doesnt try to be anything except a solid stealth-action 
 game with a likeable main character. At this it succeeds, but when it tries to distinguish itself 
 from similar titles it sometimes stumbles into other genres. Brushing these issues aside, however, 
 gamers who enjoy sneaking around and going bump in the night should get some enjoyment out of Cold 
 War.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: dspent
Rating: 8.3
Date: Dec 3, 2005 5:37 pm PT
Review:  After reading reviews of this game one would believe that it sucks. In fact I find it quite the 
 opposite. Sure at first glance you think you are playing a Splinter Cell wannabe that just doesn't 
 add up, but in many ways this game is better than most.
  
  Graphics are very very good IMHO and while some of the locations are redundant, that doesn't take 
 away from the detail. Sounds are ok, but could actually be better. Lot of reverby sounding weapons 
 that don't come across for me and the music, while suspenseful and appropriate is not varied enough.
 
  
  The true winner here to me is the AI. I have played many many games that market themselves as having 
 smart AI. None and I do mean none have come close to what I see in this game. Again, you have to 
 pay attention to really see how good the AI is. At first glance you may think there is nothing 
 to it but then you realize it is quite smart. For example, I pressed 'L' to snap my fingers and 
 get one of the guards on the move looking for the noise. He walks over to the area where I was 
 hiding, finds nothing and starts to walk around looking for where I may have gone, rather than 
 just going back to his normal routine. Another time I shot at a spetnaz soldier, and he starts 
 down the hall after me. I ducked around a corner to try and come around behind him thinking he 
 would be stupid and just follow me. He didn't, he instinctively stopped, turned around and was 
 waiting to pick me off as soon as I came around the corner. That's what I would have done in a 
 real situation.
  
  Still another instance of using smarts is this case... I was hiding between two computer racks 
 about to snipe one of the soldiers through a crack between the two servers. I shot at one of them, 
 hit him in the head and then put my back to the server waiting for the other to come around the 
 front. He did make that move, but stopped short when he realized he could get at me through that 
 same crack. No other game I've played would have done that.
  
  In my book this game is well deserving of a good rating. It has great graphics, smart AI, oh yeah 
 and the story is intriguing. Weaving in and around the chernobyl accident with an undoubtedly false 
 but very believable tale. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: serial007
Rating: 5.8
Date: Nov 17, 2005 9:38 am PT
Review:  The concept is good, an American Journalist in the USSR, discovers a plot to kill the president 
 of the USSR, but gets labelled a spy, and he is the only one that can save the presidents life.
 
  
  I really wanted to life this game, I really did. Im not a big Splinter Cell fan, but like this 
 type of game. However I just felt the main characters skills were way to un-believable. How is 
 a journalist suppose to know how to make a bomb with some tape and a bullet, how does use a gun 
 with pin point accuracy, and how come the soldiers never see or hear him?
  
  The overall story is good, graphics are ok, but the voice acting is horrible. If this game was 
 a little more polished it could be a hit, but for the price its not so bad.
  
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
