-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Colin McRae Rally 04
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/driving/colinmcraerally04/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: May 20, 2004
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8.8
Critic Score: 8.6, 8 Review (s)
User Score: 8.6, 640 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Codemasters
Genre: Rally / Offroad Racing
Date:     Apr 2, 2004 &raquo;  

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
There aren't any PC rally racing games that are better than Colin McRae Rally 04 -- and there aren't 
 many better driving games of any type, for that matter. 

  Earlier this year, Codemasters brought its most recent entry in the highly praised Colin McRae 
 Rally racing series, Colin McRae Rally 04, to the US with apparent exclusivity on the Xbox. Initially, 
 the game had been released on the Xbox, PS2, and PC in Europe, but for the game's North American 
 retail release, Codemasters decided (for some reason) to just bring the Xbox version out. However, 
 crafty PC driving fans with the gumption to investigate Codemasters' Web site soon learned that 
 the PC version of the game could be acquired in North America -- albeit exclusively through the Codemasters 
 site  and  for a price that was more than twice the cost of the Xbox version's budget price tag. 
 For what it's worth, however, the fact that the Xbox version of the game is as cheap as it is still 
 remains something of an unexplained anomaly. Aside from this, though, the PC version's equally 
 excellent driving gameplay, better graphics, and added, competitive online mode make the game every 
 bit worth purchasing.  

          Colin McRae Rally 04 is an Xbox exclusive no more, because you can now find the PC version 
 of the game through Codemasters Web site -- and only through Codemasters' Web site.     

  Colin McRae Rally 04 on the Xbox struck an incredibly fine balance between realistic and easily 
 playable driving mechanics, and the PC version is no different. The game features four different 
 car types, including four-wheel drive, two-wheel drive, Group B, and a bonus category. You will 
 feel a pretty significant difference between the cars you play from different categories. For example, 
 four-wheel drive cars are the much more traditional brand of rally racers; two-wheel drive vehicles 
 are designed to be more like day-to-day cars that have been customized for rally purposes; and 
 Group B cars are a notoriously fast bunch that were quite popular in rally racing during the 1980s 
 but were eventually banned due to the many serious accidents they were involved in. When driving 
 a two-wheel drive car or a Group B car, there is a very noticeable difference between them in both 
 handling and speed. There are a little more than 20 cars in the game, and each and every one feels 
 different and varied enough to make it enjoyable to drive time and time again.  

  Colin McRae 04 features support for all manner of controller types you could possibly want to use, 
 be it a keyboard, an analog controller, or a driving wheel. The keyboard controls are probably 
 the most unwieldy of the bunch, simply because the cars are so touchy when it comes to handling 
 corners. Analog and driving-wheel controllers are probably your best bet, since we had the least-harrowing 
 experiences trying to control our cars with these types of controllers. The driving-wheel method 
 also gets a slight leg up on the analog method, because the game just feels much more realistic 
 when using the wheel controller.  

  Adding to the realism of Colin McRae 04's driving mechanics are the game's array of tracks and 
 the subsequent variations of terrain. Colin McRae 04 features races spread throughout eight different 
 countries, ranging from the gravelly, dust-laden tracks of Australia, to the soppy, mud-bogged 
 tracks of the UK, to the snow-covered tracks of Sweden. As such, it's up to you before each race 
 to determine the setup for your car so that you can best acclimate yourself to the terrain in front 
 of you. Terrain types on a track are displayed before a race by percentages, and you can alter 
 details like your car's tire type, ride height, spring stiffness, and brake adjustment. Each of 
 these details is quite important to how your car performs on a given track. Gravelly tracks require 
 specific types of tires to prevent you from sliding all over the road, and likewise, setting your 
 springs to a softer setting will also help your traction. You actually feel a legitimate difference 
 between how your car handles on, say, light pea gravel versus heavy pea gravel, so it's not as 
 though these settings are merely an arbitrary option. Although in several of the game's modes, 
 you do have the option to simply race so that you don't have to worry about any of this. The game's 
 championship mode  requires  you to learn the ropes of car setups, though, so you're better off 
 learning how to properly configure your car.  

          Colin McRae 04's gameplay is very realistic, yet it's still completely accessible to anyone 
 who isn't a devout rally racing fan.     

  Of course, if you're no good at figuring out the right combination of tires and spring settings 
 required to keep your car on the track (or if you're just feeling wreck-happy) , Colin McRae 04 
 gives you more than your fair share of ways to royally screw up your car. The damage modeling can 
 be adjusted between two settings, and with it set to high, the damage really takes its toll. Bumpers, 
 doors, and hoods shear off; windows shatter; tires explode; and rolling your car... well, let's 
 just say it looks appropriately unpleasant. Now, of course, all of this damage will have an adverse 
 effect on your ability to drive properly. In fact, most of the game's damage isn't even immediately 
 visible but definitely takes a notable toll on your car. For instance, destroying your engine's 
 cooling system results in terrible engine performance and even causes it to periodically shut off 
 midway through a race. Though this might not be such a big detail when racing in a single race, 
 when racing through a championship you're only able to repair your car once every two races. Additionally, 
 you're only given an hour with which to repair your car, and each category of repair takes up a 
 specific amount of that time. Going over the allotted time nets you a time penalty for the next 
 race. However, if you're a capable enough racer, you should be able to navigate through the various 
 rallies with only a reasonable amount of scathe.     

  Speaking of the championship mode... Like most everything else in Colin McRae 04, it's gotten a 
 nice upgrade over Colin McRae Rally 3's championship mode. Unlike the last game, you now have the 
 option of choosing from any of the game's available cars to race with in this mode, instead of 
 being relegated simply to racing as Colin McRae himself. Depending on which car you choose, you'll 
 become a part of that car manufacturer's racing team, so you'll attempt to earn points for both 
 yourself and your team as you blaze through a series of six-race, two-day rally events. As you 
 play, you'll also take part in special one-on-one competitions against an opponent in an arena-like 
 race, and you'll have the opportunity to earn new parts for your car by testing them yourself. 
 Parts-testing takes place between countries, and you can earn items like upgraded brakes, snow 
 and gravel tires, and gear boxes. Each test is like a minigame of sorts, where, for instance, when 
 testing new brakes, you must speed through a course and stop within a specifically marked area 
 of a track. Similarly, when testing new tires, you have to slide a sufficient amount to properly 
 gauge the tires' ability to handle strain. This addition to the mode definitely adds a nice air 
 of variety to the otherwise straightforward championship.  

          Colin McRae 04 on the PC features competitive online and LAN play for up to eight players -- a 
 feature the Xbox version lacks.     

  In terms of remaining gameplay modes, the rest of Colin McRae 04 is made up of standard quick race, 
 single course, and single rally modes. The quick race is just a random car and track that's selected 
 for you, which gets you into a competition as expediently as possible. Single course lets you run 
 a time trial through any of the game's available courses. As for single rally, any of the championship 
 mode rallies are available in a single sitting here, in addition to a few customized rallies and 
 a couple of slots for you to create your own customized rallies. In surprise contrast to the Xbox 
 version of the game's only online functionality coming in the way of online scoreboards, the PC 
 version of the game features full, competitive network play online or via a LAN. You can actually 
 compete against up to seven other racers via this mode (albeit only against ghost cars rather than 
 full, damageable cars) . Why the Xbox version didn't have this is a bit perplexing, especially considering 
 how well the mode turned out. No lag of any type was ever apparent during any of the games we played, 
 and the entire interface was extremely easy to navigate through so that we could get into a game 
 to race.  

  While the Xbox version of Colin McRae 04 looked pretty great, the PC version is quite a drastic 
 improvement. The car models, which were highly detailed on the Xbox, look even better now. Each 
 car features highly reflective surfaces and an excellent amount of detail. And as you drive through 
 each course, you'll see progressive amounts of dirt, mud, snow, and what have you build up on each 
 car. As mentioned before, the damage modeling is also pretty top-notch, so nearly every wreck shows 
 off some really impressive breakage. The tracks also look better and appear more detailed here 
 as well, with better textures, significantly improved weather effects, and generally better-looking 
 set pieces (such as background foliage and buildings) . In terms of textures, all the track and 
 background textures look very good from afar, but when examined up close, you'll definitely notice 
 that they're not particularly high in resolution. Additionally, you'll see a few cases of tiling 
 here and there as well. The scant few glitches from the Xbox version, such as the occasionally 
 clipping camera and the slightly off-kilter crash physics, seem to have made their ways to the 
 PC version as well. But as before, however, these glitches are extremely few and far between and 
 are only barely worth mentioning.  

  Colin McRae 04 also sounds really great. Colin McRae's longtime navigator, Derek Ringer, once again 
 makes an appearance in this year's title, and his dialogue is pretty much what you would expect. 
 The game also features navigator dialogue in multiple other languages as well. There's very little 
 soundtrack to speak of in Colin McRae 04, save for in the game's various menu screens, but what's 
 there serves as decent background fodder. Where the game really shines, however, is in terms of 
 its in-game sound effects. When in the standard camera view, everything sounds really good. Every 
 car's engine sounds different, slide-outs and crashes are just what they should be, and the sounds 
 of the car simply bouncing around and skidding around corners are excellent. To top it all off, 
 when you switch to the "in the cockpit" camera view, you get a whole new take on the game's sound 
 presentation. Everything feels much more immersive, and all the effects definitely give you much 
 more of a feeling that you're really inside the car. Occasionally, we did note a few slightly off-sounding 
 engine noises, as well as a few lacking background sound effects in certain spots. However, to 
 balance out these slight issues, the game features support for Creative's EAX 4.0 advanced HD surround 
 sound. If you have a card that can support these effects, you owe it to yourself to turn it on, 
 because it really does sound pretty incredible. Unfortunately, there are only a select few Audigy 
 model cards that allow for it currently.  

          Though it lacks the ultra-appealing budget pricing of its Xbox counterpart, the PC version 
 of Colin McRae 04 is undoubtedly the better of the two.     

  When it comes right down to it, the PC version of Colin McRae Rally 04 pretty much takes the title 
 of best version available; however, this distinction is not quite as cut-and-dried as it may seem. 
 The fact is, the PC version of the game will cost you around $30 more than the Xbox version (when 
 you factor in the required shipping charges) , and for that extra $30, you're really only getting 
 the competitive online mode and better graphics, comparatively. Of course, this weighing of price 
 versus features really only matters if you own both an Xbox and a PC. If all you care about is 
 the PC version, then you absolutely should not hesitate to get Colin McRae Rally 04, because there 
 aren't any PC rally racing games that are better than Colin McRae Rally 04 -- and there aren't many 
 better driving games of any type, for that matter.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (8 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: maubecerra
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 8, 2007 11:53 pm PT
Review:  Even though this game has been out for quite a bit, it is the best PC racing game i have ever played, 
 the =% version Mcrae is very similar and besides the different cars the game quelity is pretty 
 much the same.
  
  Colin Mc Rae 04 is perhaps the best PC rally game it gameplay its excellent it is just like if 
 youe were driving the care.
  The graphics and detail are excellent, good sound, the tracks are very real and there arer a lot 
 of options to tune up your car this added with the awesome gameplay, gert&acute; s you an excellent 
 game that you will not wan&acute; t to erase even for the newer games and graphics of recent games.
 
  
  I would definitiley recommend it to anyone who likes car races not just rally!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: skitzo1720
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 31, 2007 3:37 am PT
Review:  Colin McRae Rally 04 is no doubt the best game in series. Gamers can choose between 6 different 
 championships, or just try to make the best times in each track, with or without ghost run.
  As gamers win championships, new and better cars are being unlocked.
  The gameplay can be quite 
 realistic, as one of the championships, only lets you have the cockpit view, and the damage made 
 to the car is extreme. Talking about damage, the car can be fix, but not always completely. The 
 player have certain time bonus to fix the car, but if that time bonus is overlimited, penalties 
 are at hand.
  As to graphics, they are very good, not great. The sound is sublime as you can have the co-pilot 
 voice giving hints, which can be quite handy.
  So CMR 4 is a game I really recommend to all racing type fans, or just a ordinary fan that want 
 to spend a good time with a good game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Calist0
Rating: 8.7
Date: Nov 24, 2006 7:03 am PT
Review:  Since the first release Collin McRae impressed and continues to impress. I played all Collin McRae 
 Rally since the first release on PS (i didn't had a computer back then) and i must say it was the 
 first WRC i played therefore i was very impressed. The whole series of CMR were great, and not 
 a single game in his category could not compare. The developers know that they are doing and they 
 have history that goes way back.
  
  I'm not the racing gamer type but Collin McRae, in my opinion is the best racing game ever. The 
 graphics in every single release were stunning, the colors, the sounds were also great and not 
 to mention the game menues, very original.
  
  So play this game if you are looking for some challenging.
  
  Cheers 
::::::

::::::
UserName: milan1133
Rating: 5.7
Date: Jul 16, 2006 6:27 am PT
Review:  the game is fun and cool at the beginning but when you start to get into it like in the middle 
 of the game it gets the same just different track and difficulty but still the same which make 
 is bad well the rank falls if you like. The cars are good looking the graphics are good except 
 the audience and the trees they look like cardboard cut outs and stuck in. It is easy to get damaged 
 car tyre falls of which makes it impossible to drive and control the car it just mae you want to 
 break your game its so frustrating. If your a real fan ot rally games then you probably will still 
 like it but if your like me just like racing games then this is not the game for you just waisting 
 your money. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: squeekikleen
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jan 29, 2005 1:44 am PT
Review:  The good news is the game itself is quite good; the bad news is that there are a few things that 
 may prevent people from buying it. As a rally game, Colin McRae falls more towards the simulation 
 side as opposed to the arcade style such as Rallisport Challenge. It is both Challenging and highly 
 addictive. There are four main classes consisting of 2WD, 4WD, Type B and bonus. The first two 
 speak for themselves, the second two require a little explanation but it would suffice one to say 
 that type B are really powerful and fast (they were banned in reality) and the bonus class are 
 various cars through the history of rally racing. Each car within each class handles differently 
 from others and various tweaks can be done to the car such as steering, tires, brake balance, spring 
 adjustments etc. Once you are on the track it gets pretty fun. The tracks are well rendered and 
 each country offers a completely unique driving experience  terrain includes tarmac, gravel (various 
 types) , mud, water, ice etc. However, I would have like to see a desert track perhaps modelled 
 after the Dakar.
  
  The cars are displayed in fine detail and so are the tracks; however, it really takes one out of 
 the experience as you pass cardboard cut-out fans along the track  therefore I would dock points 
 for that. The sound is satisfactory and you can hear navigational information dictated to you by 
 Colin McRaes actual navigator through a thick Scottish accent.
  
  The multiplayer component can be quite enjoyable as you can compete with friends. Some may feel 
 that it is annoying only seeing a ghost car in place of an opponent but a real car would not 
 be true to the rally experience (although I would welcome real cars instead of the ghost cars) . 
 Moreover, you can have up to four players playing split screen.
  
  Now, lets get to the bad parts. Firstly, there is a terrible marketing ploy to take more of your 
 money where you need to phone for codes to unlock cars and tracks. I find that distasteful. Secondly, 
 you can only purchase this online at the Codemasters website. And thirdly, the pc version is sold 
 at full price where the xbox version sells at a budget price. Some may find that unfair although 
 the PC version looks a lot nicer. However, there is little point in buying this while Colin McRae 
 Rally 05 for the PC is out and can be bought at retailers at the budget price. So perhaps the 04 
 version will get lost somewhere. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pimpremi
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 11, 2005 4:47 pm PT
Review:  One of the best rally games so far that came out. Colin MCrea team and codemasters really done 
 it again bringing superior graphics, great gameplay, for all gamers around the world. The cars 
 in the game are truly awsome involving the high definition details on the cars and the way the 
 made the crashes look, was truly another great thing. the great part of the game is the career 
 mode, it is truly nice where you travel all around the world and you win better upgrades and have 
 the best time possible. Colin mcrea so far created many games but by so far this is truly the nicesy, 
 coolest, most demanding game out now. Highly recommend to buy and Play!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ethan-p
Rating: 8.9
Date: Oct 4, 2004 4:27 pm PT
Review:  In short, CMR 04 has restored my faith in the driving genre of video games.
  
  There are various modes of gameplay, multiplayer, a single stage, single rally, and championship 
 mode, where you must run a series of races and win championship points for you (the driver) and 
 the team (manufacturer) .
  
  The gameplay in Colin McRae Rally 04 is just great. Driving physics are really good (which is really 
 the crux of my rating) , although the tip/roll physics leave much to be desired. For example, when 
 a car slides off the road sideways into soft dirt or grass, a real car will normally dig in and 
 roll. In the game, it just slides around like on icy pavement. I assume that the rollover behavior 
 was left out to make the game more playable. Similarly, the damage model, while a great effort 
 by Codemasters, just doesn't pass the realism test. Even in hard mode, hitting a rock (or even 
 a telephone pole at 100+ MPH) will not end your rally. Instead, the vehicle is damaged and the 
 race continues, albeit, with an injured car -- dificult to keep on the road. Also a major shortcoming, 
 most road signs do not break away. Maybe they make them out of kryptonite in other parts of the 
 world -- but seriously, no roadsign should stop a 2500 LB car traveling at 100+ MPH. These gameplay 
 shortcomings aside, the physics (and gameplay at large) are a great balance of realism and arcade 
 playability. For example, like in a real car, it is difficult to toss a car into a low speed hairpin 
 and simply yank the e-brake to put the rear end of the car wherever you want. It takes practice, 
 the right speed, as well as careful timing and placement. Over any corner, the car needs to be 
 coaxed into rotating the proper way, and you definitely need to carry enough speed to get it to 
 properly slide around corners. Granted, the real level of skill required by WRC drivers is masked, 
 but as far as physics go in a rally game, these are among the best I've seen. 
  
  The graphics are pretty good, but by modern standards are nothing to write home about. The detail 
 level on the cars is as good as any game (if not better) . However, the detail level of the surroundings 
 leaves something to be desired. Spectators are a single polygon, a texture-mapped cardboard cutout, 
 if you will. Trees look far better than on CMR 3.0, but are still 2 polygon models, and it shows 
 in the replays. The road textures haven't changed much in this version. Some are better than others, 
 and there are many different textures/surfaces in use, and the added lighting and reflectivity 
 effects are what really set the road surface graphics apart from its predecessor. Reflections make 
 surfaces like ice and wet pavement actually discernable from slush and regular pavement when the 
 sun is in the right place.
  
  The sound is only so-so. It's not particularly bad, but doesn't stand out as wet-your-pants amazing 
 either. Engine sounds are the most prevalant and the game (except for maybe your codriver, which 
 I'll get to in a second) , and sound like just about any other (decent) fake video game engine sound. 
 There are the nice turbo blow-off valve sounds as you lift off the throttle, which makes it feel 
 a little more like a rally car, and you can hear an occasional air horn from the cardboard-cutout 
 of a crowd. Other sounds are "damage sounds" when you hit an obstacle or bottom out. The last portion 
 of the sound is, IMO, the best: your codriver. I found the codriver extremely helpful -- listening 
 to their directions is critical in the game. Friends who played the game complained about it more 
 than any other feature. They found it confusing, and preferred to turn it off and just use the 
 visual indicator (which gives less detail, leaving out "don't cut", "rocks outside", or "3 left, 
 into 2 left tightens, bad camber, stay in, straight 100") . Maybe I prefer it because I watch enough 
 WRC that the game feels more immersive -- maybe I can understand the default Scottish accent better 
 than they can. One way or the other, I consider it a highlight, while some consider it to be a 
 hinderance (on any level) . From the highlight level, your codriver does a good job of reading each 
 pace note at least one turn ahead of you, so you're rarely caught off guard.
  
  Overall, I'd give this game an 8.9. It's just great, with many of the typical driving game flaws. 
 But I tend to buy games for the experience -- the physics and gameplay. The graphics are certainly 
 good enough to create an immersive experience, and the sound is better than most. If you love driving 
 games (especially rally games) , and want a little more than what is typical, check this game out. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jorako
Rating: 8.6
Date: May 12, 2004 7:58 pm PT
Review:  If youre a fan of the racing genre, youll love Colin McRae 04. The game play is pretty straight 
 forward, you are given the option of several types of rally cars of which you can choose. FWD (Front 
 Wheel) AWD (All Wheel) and Group B (Powerful) . You can then choose the manufacturer you wish to 
 race for, such as Ford, Suburu, and Citreon. You then compete in a series of rallys which are 
 made up for six to seven mini stages, separated by checkpoints. Each race will only take you about 
 three to four minutes, but an entire rally can take you almost a half-hour. Between these checkpoints 
 you have up to one hour to repair you car. Depending upon the damage, and the location of the repair 
 in question, it may not be repaired. As far as sound goes, there really isnt much other than engines 
 and the occasional air-horn from a spectator. The graphics are really nice, and they detailed the 
 cars perfectly. The damage models are very accurate, and even the smaller components (Springs, 
 Engine parts, etc) are greatly detailed. The value of the game was a tough score to come up with, 
 seeing as how you cant walk into a local store and buy this game here in the states (At least not 
 in my area) . This game had to be obtained over the internet. Your favorite Video game retailer 
 should have it (Except for Ebgames and BestBuy) . Overall this game is fun to play, and offers you 
 incentives. There are many un-lockable vehicles and tracks, as well as a plethora (Yeah, thats 
 right, SAT word!) of tracks. Like I said earlier, if you are a fan of the racing genre, dont overlook 
 this gem. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
