-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Colin McRae Rally
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/driving/colinmcraerally/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Mar 22, 2000
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 6.6
Critic Score: 7.7, 14 Review (s)
User Score: 7.8, 142 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Codemasters
Genre: Rally / Offroad Racing
Date:     Feb 29, 2000
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Though it's among the world's best-selling and most widely played rally sims, you'll probably come 
 away feeling that it really wasn't worth the wait after all. 

 Despite the fact that rallying probably ranks alongside beach volleyball and lawn-mower racing when 
 it comes to television coverage in the US, we've seen a steady stream of rally games over the past 
 few years. They've ranged in quality from the excellent Mobil 1 British Rally Championship and 
 Rally Championship, to the more mediocre Sega Rally Championship and Boss Rally, to out-and-out 
 silly games like South Park Rally. Now, more than 18 months after its release in Europe, US gamers 
 finally get a chance to put Colin McRae Rally through its paces. Though it's among the world's 
 best-selling and most widely played rally sims, you'll probably come away feeling that it really 
 wasn't worth the wait after all.  

 Part of the disappointment can be attributed to the game's dated technology and the recent release 
 of the superb Mobil 1 Rally Championship. But the lion's share of the blame goes to questionable 
 design decisions, a skimpy manual with little background information, and an intermitent crash 
 bug that's most likely related to the lack of any updates to make the sim compatible with today's 
 video cards and processors.  

 Rallying is basically a race against the clock over a series of courses known as stages. Opponents 
 don't race at the same time but instead take off from the start line in one-minute intervals. And 
 the courses are some of the most brutal you'll find in racing: The routes are riddled with bumps 
 and ditches, they frequently cross streams and creeks, and they are often hemmed in by massive 
 banks or potentially dangerous trees. Add in the vagaries of snow, ice, and rain, and you've got 
 the makings of some of the most intense gear-slamming, mud-slinging, power-sliding races ever devised. 

 Unlike other rally simulations, Colin McRae Rally doesn't attempt to re-create a specific real-life 
 event like the Network Q Rally or Mobil 1 British Rally Championship. Instead, it's based loosely 
 on the World Rally Championship, a series of 14 individual rallies scattered across the globe from 
 China to Argentina. Colin McRae Rally features eight of those rallies: New Zealand, Greece, Monte 
 Carlo, Australia, Sweden, Corsica, Indonesia, and the United Kingdom. Fourteen cars are included 
 in the game from real-life rally teams like Ford, Subaru, Mitsubishi, Toyota, Renault, Seat, Volkswagen, 
 Audi, and more.  

 Even if it isn't based entirely on an authentic event, the variety of courses and cars would seem 
 to be a good foundation on which to build a great rallying sim. It certainly helps that you get 
 to compete against real-life drivers like McRae himself, one of the sport's top talents and easily 
 its most well-known personality, as well as many others. But it doesn't do a lot of good to cram 
 all these features into a game if they're hidden from the user or if no effort is made to bring 
 rally newcomers up to speed on a motorsport they're interested in but know little about.  

 For example, if you're unfamiliar with rallying, you'd never know that your competitors in Colin 
 McRae Rally are actually supposed to be computer-controlled versions of real-life drivers. All 
 it would take is a snapshot and a short biography and racing history to let rallying greenhorns 
 know that yes, these are real drivers, and yes, they're good. Then there are the cars themselves: 
 Besides the game's almost complete lack of technical specs for each ride, only eight cars are available 
 when you first begin. Adjusting the difficulty setting trims the car selection down even further. 
 Why would choosing a higher difficulty level rob you of the ability to drive the cars listed in 
 the novice class? Worst of all, the only way to gain access to the additional cars is to take home 
 the first-place trophy in a full championship season. The same problem applies to the various rallies 
 themselves. Until you compete in a championship season and finish sixth or higher after the first 
 two rallies in New Zealand and Greece, only two of the eight events are open as individual rallies. 
 In time-trial mode, you can check out all the stages of the first two and only the first stage 
 of two others in Monte Carlo and Australia. Why even include an individual rally mode or time trials 
 for stages if you're going to prevent players from using them until they compete in the championship 
 mode? Even the rallies are but a shadow of their real-life counterparts: The stages have been truncated 
 into bite-size nuggets, many of which can be run in less than a quarter of the time required to 
 finish in real life.  

 One of the more unique aspects of real-life rallying is that you're only allotted a limited amount 
 of time at various points along the course to make repairs to your car. Unfortunately, this aspect 
 of the real-life motorsport doesn't translate properly to the game. Whether it's because the stages 
 are so short or the damage model so forgiving, the bottom line is that you'll probably never be 
 forced to choose between one repair or another because of time constraints. With 60 minutes allotted 
 at the repair areas, only the worst drivers could possibly take enough damage to use it all up 
 and still be left with a damaged component. About all you need to keep an eye on is your tire type, 
 to ensure that you have the right tires for the terrain that lies ahead.  

 The recent Mobil 1 Rally Championship features 14 car components that can take damage and four setup 
 options that cover steering sensitivity, brake balance, suspension height, and suspension stiffness. 
 On the other hand, Colin McRae Rally has only five components to repair and five setup options; 
 it lists tires under car setup because apparently there isn't enough racing to lead to significant 
 tire wear, even if you don't change them after completing several stages. The lack of body-repair 
 options is especially odd, considering how often you'll find yourself slamming sideways into fences, 
 brick walls, trees, and large rocks.  

 Since Colin McRae Rally has been available in Europe for a while, the graphics in the game don't 
 stack up to what you'll find in the latest sims. But though the game is fairly old, its visuals 
 don't actually detract from the action. If you have a supported 3D accelerator, you'll see realistic 
 and convincing terrain that has bystanders and even the occasional cow or goat perched on a hillside. 
 And an added benefit of the not-quite-cutting-edge graphics is that you can expect smooth performance 
 even if you don't own the fastest CPU or 3D accelerator.  

 Ultimately, Colin McRae Rally delivers a good racing experience though it manages to irritate in 
 so many little ways. The action it delivers is pure, intense, and thrilling. A tutorial narrated 
 by McRae will help beginners learn basic rallying techniques, but even if you bypass the tutorial 
 and jump right into a championship, you'll find that mastering your vehicle comes almost naturally 
 in Colin McRae Rally. Your codriver's instructions are dead-on accurate as to what sort of curves 
 and obstacles lie ahead, and paying close attention to what you're being told will drastically 
 improve your performance. Even so, it'd be nice if the codriver actually told you how far ahead 
 curves and obstacles were.  

 As much fun as Colin McRae Rally can be, it's still disappointing that Codemasters decided to hide 
 so much of what the game has to offer. Colin McRae Rally might be enough to satisfy fans that are 
 moderately interested in rallying, but for those with an appetite for the real thing, it'll only 
 leave them hungry for more.    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (1 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: mort2fire
Rating: 6
Date: Jan 8, 2006 12:10 pm PT
Review:  Colin Mcrae Rally started off as one of the best racing games in my series, and i had fun playing 
 this game.
  The longer i played it the more problems i had with it, i had to get hold of a patch and update 
 the graphics and the motion.
  
  From Windows 98-ME, the game was in great condition, but as windows moves on, i had to download 
 a windows XP patch to enable the game to work under the new windows environment.
  
  The cars are still amazing and the network is still played to day, when we network games.
  
 
  I enjoy playing all racing games on my steering wheel, and when i played this game with vibrations, 
 the steering wheel was un-controllable.
  I thought this game had alot to offer, but games move on and new games come out.
  
  So this 
 one remains in the Old shcool list, but back in the time, still a fun game to play.
  Recommended. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
