-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Colin McRae Rally 2.0
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/driving/colinmcraerally20/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Mar  5, 2001
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8.5
Critic Score: 8.6, 18 Review (s)
User Score: 8.5, 491 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Codemasters
Genre: Rally / Offroad Racing
Date:     Feb 14, 2001
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
If you can work your way around its shortcomings, you'll find that Colin McRae Rally 2.0 is one 
 of the most engrossing racing sims available. 

 Though it offered its fair share of thrills, last year's Colin McRae Rally simply didn't stand up 
 to Mobil 1 Rally Championship as the game of choice for serious rally racing fans, due largely 
 to its somewhat dated graphics and a physics model that was too forgiving. But Codemasters addressed 
 both those issues when designing Colin McRae Rally 2.0. It's true that the game doesn't meticulously 
 re-create every inch of any of the courses that that make up the World Rally. It's also hampered 
 by a few technical problems that can tax the patience of even the most dedicated racing fan. But 
 if you can work your way around these shortcomings, you'll find that Colin McRae Rally 2.0 is one 
 of the most engrossing racing sims available.           Colin McRae 2.0 boasts highly authentic 
 cockpit views    

 Like its precursor, Colin McRae Rally 2.0 doesn't attempt to simulate the entire 2000 World Rally 
 Championship or even all the stages of a single WRC event. In fact, the brevity of each rally stage 
 makes it clear that these aren't accurate depictions of real courses, but rather fictional layouts 
 designed to capture the spirit of the various locales. In all, you'll race on courses in eight 
 countries (Greece, Finland, Australia, Kenya, France, Sweden, Italy, and the UK) , with each rally 
 consisting of nine or 10 stages that are considerably shorter than what you'd find in real life. 
 This stands in stark contrast to the brutal realism of Mobil 1 Rally Championship -- a stage in that 
 game might be 15 minutes long, while in Colin McRae Rally 2.0 you'd be hard-pressed to find many 
 that are longer than four minutes. It might not be authentic, but it does mean you'll be able to 
 finish several rallies in one day.   

  More than 20 cars are available in the game, from manufactures like Ford, Lancia, Mitsubishi, Peugeot, 
 MG, Cooper, Seat, Subaru, and Toyota. Many are unavailable until you unlock them, but it's basically 
 a moot point because only experienced drivers will be able to get the most of the higher-end cars 
 anyway. For instance, after whipping the Subaru Impreza around several courses, I tried my hand 
 with the faster, newly unlocked Mitsubishi Lancer and found the higher top-end speed difficult 
 to handle. Otherwise, both the engine sounds and dash displays are different for each car, and 
 the modeling of inertia (the first-person perspective sways from side to side in turns) gives Colin 
 McRae 2.0 one of the most convincing cockpit views to date in a racing game. The downside is the 
 semitransparent windshield, which gives everything a slightly blurred appearance and knocks the 
 frame rate down a bit to boot. Therefore, though the cockpit view looks great, most players will 
 probably opt for the over-the-hood view, which provides a greater view distance and smoother performance. 
           You can view the game effectively from over the hood    

 There are two main modes of play in the game: rally and arcade. Arcade racing pits you against up 
 to seven human or computer-controlled opponents on a circuit in each country (or all the circuits 
 in the championship mode) , with damage modeling turned off and handling physics quite relaxed. 
 The computer opponents are actually quite tough to beat even on the intermediate difficulty setting; 
 after grabbing several first-place trophies in a rally championship season, I was surprised to 
 find myself struggling to finish in the top three in the arcade races.   

  Of course, a lot of players will pass on the arcade mode in favor of the more true-to-life rally 
 mode. Whether you opt to run a single stage (all stages in all courses are immediately available) , 
 race a single rally, or start a championship season, you'll find the action is intense, authentic, 
 and addicting. Though the damage modeling still isn't close to being lifelike -- you can hit a tree 
 at 100mph with only a crumpled hood to show for it, and it's apparently impossible to blow an engine -- you'll 
 still find it challenging to balance saving time against repairing your car at various points during 
 rallies.    

 Out on the courses, you'll find the enhanced physics engine results in much more realistic handling 
 than in the original game. None of the terrain is as rugged as the gully-ridden, pothole-infested 
 cart paths found in Mobil 1 Rally Championship, but the spectrum of different driving surfaces 
 gives Colin McRae its own appeal. Codemasters has arrayed the courses in the championship mode 
 in a way that will test even seasoned drivers. For example, after sliding through the gravel of 
 Greece, the next stop in the series is the tarmac-only stages of France, which require an entirely 
 different type of driving style. From France it's on to Sweden, where the snow- and ice-covered 
 courses will force you to once again rethink your tactics -- a pattern that's repeated as you move 
 through the two championship levels.           The graphical effects are realistic, but require 
 fast hardware    

 Regardless of the course, if you're not using the hand brake in hairpin turns, you're costing yourself 
 precious seconds. Powerslides are essential if you want to finish at the head of the pack, and 
 to this effect, the hand brake modeling is exceptionally well done. It all adds up to an exhilarating 
 ride that's enhanced by impressive graphics that will strain all but the highest-end systems. Actually, 
 that's one of the few real problems in Colin McRae Rally 2.0: the frame rate. As any racing sim 
 fan would tell you, a consistently smooth frame rate is extremely important in a racing simulation -- but 
 trying to get fluid animation out of Colin McRae 2.0 can seem even more stressful than vying for 
 the championship on the game's expert difficulty setting. The big culprit seems to be the force 
 feedback support; turn it on, and you'll see the frame rate drop by at least a third. Things get 
 even worse on courses such as Greece where there's lots of gravel, and driving by complex scenery 
 like rivers can practically slow the game down to a standstill even on systems that meet the recommended 
 specifications.   

  In short, while the game looks outstanding in high resolution with all the visual effects enabled, 
 you'll need a top-of-the-line system to get it running well that way. Even then, you might encounter 
 a few crash bugs -- sometimes the game would lock up and force a reboot, while other times it would 
 unceremoniously crash to the desktop.           Though the stages are short, the action is very 
 intense    

 The multiplayer support in Colin McRae 2.0 also has some flaws. It's bad enough that the help file 
 says that "whilst Internet play is possible, performance over the Web will be seriously diminished," 
 but what's worse is that there's no type of matchmaking service provided with the game. The latest 
 version of Kali does offer support for Colin McRae Rally 2.0, but the lack of an in-game player-finding 
 feature means you may be hard-pressed to find live competition.   

  Because of the force-feedback problems and steep system requirements, most players will find that 
 Colin McRae Rally 2.0 falls just a bit short of Mobil 1 Rally Championship as the best rally sim 
 to date. However, those players who can get it to run smoothly may well prefer its faster pacing 
 to that of Mobil 1. In the end, it doesn't really matter -- the bottom line is, if you like rallying 
 and you have a fast system, then Colin McRae Rally 2.0 is definitely a keeper.    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (3 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: majesticcryx
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 28, 2007 8:36 am PT
Review:  Featuring a completely overhauled graphics engine, the sequel sports advanced imaging techniques 
 like hardware T&amp; L (transform and lighting) and cubic environment mapping. The new graphics 
 engine even goes so far as to cast real-time shadows for every single tree and roadside structure 
 in the game.
  
  The postcard-worthy backdrops are fronted by some of the most exquisitely detailed rally cars ever 
 to grace a PC screen. Thirteen licensed machines are available for you to drive -- including McRaes 
 Ford Focus -- each with convincing suspension movement, body roll, transparent window glass, and 
 damage effects. Codemasters has tuned the slippy physics to blur the line between arcade and simulation 
 and, while not as sophisticated as Mobil 1 Rally, the driving and damage modeling very persuasively 
 communicate the feeling of rubber meeting gravel or metal meeting pine tree.
  
  Gameplay options in Colin 2 have been ramped up appreciably from Colin 1. Rally purists can select 
 from among 90 individual point-to-point stages, set in eight different countries. Circuit racing 
 fans can elect to trade paint with up to five AI cars on a number of closed-loop tracks in the 
 new Arcade mode. None of these venues are based on real-life events, however, and the highly abbreviated 
 rally stages rarely exceed five miles in length. But for non-purists, this may actually help serve 
 up the normally lengthy rally experience into easily digestible chunks. A full suite of multiplayer 
 options for up to eight players is also on tap.
  
  One significant downside to the game is its arbitrarily high degree of difficulty. While most players 
 will be able to win Rally and Arcade Championships quite handily at the Novice setting, switching 
 to Expert mode (and even Intermediate for some) will pose such an insurmountable challenge that 
 all but the most gifted drivers will finish at or near the bottom of the order.
  
  This situation could have been forgiven if it werent for the fact that the game requires you to 
 perform well in all three disciplines if you are to have any hope of unlocking the games bonus 
 vehicles and tracks (over two-thirds of which are inaccessible at the outset) . Not a terribly welcoming 
 feature for thrill-seeking target audience.
  
  Colin McRae Rally 2 may not be the most authentic rally simulator on the market, but its wealth 
 of gameplay options, stunning visuals, and infectiously loose rally car physics combine to make 
 it one of the most entertaining. Once youve kicked the tires on this puppy, youll definitely 
 want to drive it home. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: terryprior
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jan 12, 2006 8:42 am PT
Review:  Colin McRae Rally 2.0 offers two modes of play based around the sport. Rally is the more realistic 
 of the two, but novices may wish to get their feet wet with the Arcade modes first. Arcade itself 
 consists of three separate events, the Time Trial, Single Race and Championship. Time trials are 
 raced alone on circuit courses and are largely a test of skill. After the first lap a ghost car 
 appears that mimics your best run to date, allowing you to gauge your progress against the clock. 
 Single races clutter up the courses with five opponents racing side-by-side and exchanging more 
 than a little paint in the process. Championship rounds are run in exactly the same manner as the 
 singles, but the results in each of a series of races are tallied to determine a driver's trophy 
 position at the end. There are two classes of championship: Class B consists of tracks in Italy, 
 Sweden and Greece, while the initially locked A Class runs the player through Australia, Finland 
 and France. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: mort2fire
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jan 8, 2006 11:30 am PT
Review:  The ultimate driving experience, drive 12 of the greatest rally cars in 8 countries around the 
 world in the most authentic rally driving experience ever! Put your foot down in the all new multi-car 
 Arcade Rally mode with over 8 fantastic, unique looped circuits with 6 cars racing simultaneously.
 
  
  If you've played Colin McRae Rally before, you won't be surprised with this one. Colin McRae Rally 
 2005 is a rally simulation, built from the ground up with a superb physics engine, and an attention 
 to detail that's hard to match in almost any racing game. It's not an arcade game like the Xbox's 
 RalliSport Challenge 2.0, meaning it's not as easy to get into, not as easy to play, and while 
 it has a good assortment of options, cars, and courses, it's not as big of a game as Microsoft's 
 title. And it's a far better rally game than you'll get in Gran Turismo 3: A-spec, which to be 
 fair is pretty darn fun in its own right. But if you want the closest rally racing videogame experience 
 in the North American market, this is it. 
  
  When it comes the mulitiplayer, you can be sure to have a fun time on this game, as you can later 
 drive minis and have lotf of your friends all drive the same car, racing them around the different 
 countries in the game.
  
  
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
