-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Colin McRae Rally 2005
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/driving/colinmcraerally5/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Tight driving model.
 Gorgeous graphics, especially lighting.
 Varied and effective engine and atmospheric sounds.
 Smooth online play.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Strange control issues in menus.
 Lack of long stages.
 More stage preview information would be nice.
 Lack of online options.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Nov 15, 2004
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8.3
Critic Score: 8.2, 11 Review (s)
User Score: 8.3, 892 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Codemasters
Genre: Rally / Offroad Racing
Date:     Oct 28, 2004 &raquo;  
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Colin McRae makes another appearance on the PC with the fifth installment in the off-road racing 
 series. 

  Colin McRae has been a regular guest on video game consoles for years now through the legendary 
 rallying series that bears his name. What some racing fans may not know is that the off-road racing 
 series has been a mainstay on the PC for just as long. Colin McRae Rally 2005, the franchise's 
 latest iteration, plays just as well as its console cousin, with the additional advantage of some 
 gorgeous graphics.  

          Big air jumps mean big boom landings in Colin McRae 2005 for PC.     

  The driving 
 model that fans of the series have come to depend on is still rock solid in the PC version of CMR 
 2005. The game chooses to err on the side of a driving simulation and isn't necessarily a simple 
 pick-up-and-play experience. If this is your first experience with the series, expect to spend 
 large amounts of time offtrack. This is rally racing, after all, where no road surface is taboo: 
 smooth asphalt, muddy gravel, and even frozen ice are all an option.  

  The vehicles in CMR 2005, of which there are more than 30, have a tangible sense of weight that 
 is especially noticeable when making jumps. There are no floaty physics here, as the cars require 
 a tremendous amount of speed to get airborne before they quite literally slam to the ground when 
 they land. The sense of suspension trauma is noticeable and thrilling, especially when using the 
 game's cockpit view.  

  The best-known rally cars are all here -- the Subaru Impreza WRX, the Lancer Evolution VIII, the 
 Peugeot 206, and the Ford Focus, among others -- but CMR 2005 also features a number of classic rally 
 cars, including 2-wheel drive models such as the VW Polo, the Citron Saxo, and the VW Golf 
 GTi. Notably missing from the game's car list is the Toyota Corolla, a model that found a good 
 deal of real-life rallying success in the late 1990s. Cars from disparate classes feel quite different 
 from one another, as there is a great deal of performance difference between an Audi A3 and a Mini 
 Cooper S. What's interesting in CMR 2005, though, is the diversity in handling between cars of 
 the same performance class. The 2WD VW Polo, for instance, seems to have slower acceleration off 
 the line than the MG ZR, which is also a 2WD.  

  Diverse car selection means little without a similar variety of tracks to drive on. CMR 2005 delivers 
 here as well, with nine rally events available: UK, Sweden, Finland, Australia, Spain, Japan, Greece, 
 USA, and the newly introduced German course. Each event includes eight drivable stages, and some 
 events include an additional enclosed super special course. Unfortunately, the stage list in the 
 PC version of the CMR 2005 is identical to that found in the console version of the game. It would 
 have been nice to see some additional PC-only stages not found in the console version.  

  While the individual stages change from one version of CMR to the next, the characteristics of 
 each rally event have remained true to life throughout the series. As in previous versions, the 
 Finland rally event in CMR 2005 is blindingly quick, full of harrowing hairpin turns in dense forest, 
 full-throttle gravel straights, and some of the most dramatic jumps in the world. Greece, on the 
 other hand, is a test of endurance both for the driver and the car, with heavy gravel, narrow roads, 
 and precipitous drop-offs.  

  CMR 2005 pulls off these tactile differences in track surfaces and conditions to great effect. 
 The game realistically conveys the feel of each course with a convincing combination of vibration 
 support (of which there is a wide range when using a gamepad) and excellent visual feedback in 
 the handling of the car. The bumps and undulations found in stages, particularly those in Greece 
 or the UK, are a perfect example. The bumps are most noticeable in one of the three first-person 
 camera perspectives, where your car is tossed all over the course, especially at higher speeds. 
 It can certainly make for a thrilling ride.  

  The only major complaint with the tracks is the relatively short length of each rally stage. Most 
 stages in the game take between three to four minutes to complete. This is in stark contrast to 
 some of the behemoth tracks real rally drivers face in competition, which generally average nine 
 or more miles in length. For the PC version of CMR 2005 (arriving on DVD, no less) , inclusion of 
 tracks of this length would have been a welcome addition to the series.  

          Pay attention to the weather before heading out on a rally stage. Your car, and your codriver, 
 will thank you.     

  Because conditions vary so widely between events, correct car setups are critical to your success 
 as a rally driver. As in previous installments in the series, CMR 2005 lets you adjust a number 
 of different aspects of your car before hitting the road, including tires (the choices of which 
 change depending on the event) , ride height, springs, antiroll bar, brake bias, steering, and gearbox. 
 Each adjustment you make can have a dramatic effect on how your car performs once you're on the 
 road. As such, it's important to make the right modification for the right situation.  

  Here is where CMR 2005 falls flat, however. Even though the game gives you preview information 
 on the next two stages, the information presented is fairly threadbare, consisting mainly of length, 
 weather conditions, time of day, the types of surfaces you will encounter on the road, and a zoomable 
 map that outlines each sector of the stages. More information is often needed to make intelligent 
 setup choices, especially regarding weather conditions, which can often change dramatically between 
 stages. Similarly, drastic elevation changes (which often call for lower gearbox settings) are 
 not noted at all. As a player, you are left to either memorize the stage's characteristics, or 
 try to guess at the conditions based on what you know about the event locale in general.    

  While running stages, you can expect to see your car absorb damage. A damage indicator, located 
 in the lower left corner of your screen, gives you color-coded damage information for every major 
 portion of your car. There are two damage modes in CMR 2005: normal and advanced. Normal allows 
 you to take plenty of chances with the car and still be able to make it through a stage relatively 
 unscathed. Advanced damage is more unforgiving, even in light scrapes. That said, despite our best 
 efforts, we were unable to completely kill a car, even with advanced damage activated.  

          The list of available rides in CMR 2005 is enough to get even Sunday drivers excited.  
    

  Colin McRae Rally 2005 includes several gameplay modes to choose from: a challenge mode, in which 
 you can race individual stages or full multiple-stage rallies; a championship mode; an all-new 
 career mode; and an online racing mode. Championship mode allows you to take on the persona of 
 the Flying Scot himself, Colin McRae, as you fight for the world championship. During the season, 
 you'll also get the opportunity to test new parts for your car, such as advanced brakes or an improved 
 gearbox. These tests are essentially minigames and they are generally the same as those found in 
 Colin McRae Rally 4. The improved ceramic braking system test, for example, requires you to run 
 a course in Spain, which includes stopping in a series of designated areas, within a predetermined 
 span of time.  

  CMR 2005's career mode is essentially a beefed-up version of the championship mode with a few new 
 twists. You're still competing on rally courses but, instead of running events from the same locale, 
 you will travel to different locales for each stage of the race. In between, you'll repair your 
 ride as usual in preparation for the next stage. By earning points in career mode, you can unlock 
 additional career events as well as the game's many unlockable rally cars.  

  Hardcore rally fans have often wondered how a rally game would handle online play. After all, actual 
 rally driving is a relatively solitary event. Colin McRae Rally 2005's solution for online and 
 LAN multiplayer rallying is unique, achieving head-to-head competition with a clever variation 
 on the arcade racing convention of multiple cars on the same course. You can race against up to 
 eight other players online, but the twist is that your online competitors are displayed as brightly 
 colored ghost cars. Despite the vivid color palette, the ghost cars aren't distracting. When they 
 fade in brightness it means that they are closer to you. There is virtually no slowdown when playing 
 online, even with a full complement of eight racers. This is the good news. The bad news is that 
 many of the features found in the offline game are no-shows online. Things like car setups, service-area 
 repairs between stages (even when running full rallies) , and between-stage leaderboards are all 
 missing.  

  There are several control options found in the PC version of CMR 2005, including keyboard, joystick, 
 and wheel support. As you might expect, if you have the option to go with an analog controller 
 or wheel, do so. Driving a PC racer with keyboard controls is about as effective as typing an e-mail 
 with your car's steering wheel. We tried the game using both the Logitech RumblePad 2 gamepad and 
 a Thrustmaster Enzo Ferrari Racing Wheel and found both options to work well. The racing wheel 
 on default settings was not nearly sensitive enough for our tastes. However, CMR 2005 gives you 
 the ability to easily adjust both dead zone and "saturation" settings for analog steering and acceleration 
 controls. With a bit of tweaking, we were able to get the wheel working fairly well with the game. 

  We did encounter some strange control issues when navigating the menus in CMR 2005. When using 
 either the gamepad or the wheel, we were also able to use the keyboard for navigating some, but 
 not all, menus. When performing car repairs or setup changes, for example, we were unable to use 
 the keyboard to make adjustments. Instead, we were forced to use the gamepad or wheel to navigate 
 the menus and make alterations. This means you might find yourself switching between the keyboard 
 and a controller to navigate menus, which can be annoying.  

  Graphically, the Colin McRae series keeps making strides. With its graphical detail settings at 
 their highest, the PC version of CMR 2005 looks truly remarkable. One of the most dramatic graphical 
 touches is a blurred-vision effect used when sustaining heavy crashes. The more dramatic the crash, 
 the longer and more pronounced the effect. The color palette in CMR 2005 is gorgeous as well, depicting 
 dramatic lighting differences in morning and afternoon races. The lighting effects, particularly 
 sunlight, are the best ever seen in the series. Other touches, such as trees gently swaying in 
 the breeze before you start off on a course, or leaves falling around you car after you bump into 
 a tree, add a sense of life to your surroundings.  

  There are some seams in the textures, but you generally have to be at a full stop to notice them. 
 Cool effects, such as sparks flying off the car when scraping against a metal bridge railing, are 
 especially dramatic in the game's replay mode, which captures the intensity of each drive well. 
 Ranging from long views above the car to handheld-style side-of-the-road shots, the multiple camera 
 angles mean you'll find yourself enjoying the view after particularly daring drives. Lack of camera 
 control and no way to save your replays is disappointing, however.  

          Gravel, tarmac, snow, mud -- no road surface is off limits in rally racing.     

  From 
 a sound standpoint, CMR 2005 doesn't boast a huge palette. What it does, however, it does right. 
 The only music found in the game is the techno-style tune accompanying the menus. The most common 
 sounds in the game are the roar of your engine and the dulcet tones of your codriver Nicky Grist 
 reading his detailed pace notes. The various sounds of the car sliding through the different road 
 surfaces -- squealing on abrasive tarmac, rustling through unpacked snow, swishing across loose gravel -- are 
 top-notch and really add to the immersiveness of the driving experience. These environmental sounds 
 differ depending on your current camera option. Engine revs, which sound muffled and restrained 
 while using the cockpit view, for example, are sharp and impressively loud when using the hood 
 or bumper point of view. Crowd noise seems improved in the PC version of CMR 2005 as well; you 
 can clearly hear their sideline cheers as you burn past them in your car.  

  Colin McRae Rally 2005 for the PC is another satisfying entry in the racing series, which has found 
 commercial success in America despite the country's indifference toward the sport it portrays. 
 With realistic physics, approachable yet challenging driving controls, and a convincing atmosphere, 
 the PC version of CMR 2005 should not be overlooked. While it doesn't do enough to improve on some 
 of the console version's shortcomings, it is still a fulfilling and well-executed racing game that 
 deserves a place in every off-road racing fan's library.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (16 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: neil_2468
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 2, 2008 10:37 am PT
Review:  Small alert for Windows Vista users: this game won't work on Vista, because of compatibility issues, 
 but DON'T worry, there's a way to make it work. First of all, you have to install the game's patch. 
 Second of all, you need to download the game's no-DVD file from gamecopyworld. com. And finally, 
 just replace all the files in the game's folder with the ones in the zip folder of the no-DVD file 
 that you've downloaded. br / 
  
  I just recently bought this game since The Source had a liquidation on all remaining computer games. 
 When I first tried the game (after getting it to work on Vista, of course) , I immediately started 
 to enjoy this game.
  
  The graphics aren't exactly spectacular, but it's normal, since this game came out in 2004. The 
 gameplay, though, is enjoyable and very realistic. For some, you may need to take time adjusting 
 to the driving, especially if you set the camera inside the car. It shouldn't be too hard to adjust 
 though, because I already have and I didn't even play for that long.
  
  This game has a splendid car collection with various classes to choose from. The tracks are well 
 made.
  
  Overall, Colin Mcrae Rally 2005 is a fun game with an enjoyable and very realistic gameplay. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: attila1975
Rating: 6.5
Date: Apr 5, 2008 4:37 am PT
Review:  CMR 05 is an arcade-style rally game. It is not difficult at all. I`m not a great driver, in fact 
 I plain suck at Richard Burns Rally, have no patience for that. But in CMR 05, I win every stage 
 by 15 seconds on the first try. Granted, I play with automatic gear (with a wheel and pedals of 
 course) , but still it feels too easy.
  
  The whole interface of the game is pleasant and stylish, but it can take some time to start a race, 
 because you need to repair your car, set up for the race: tyres, gear ratio, anti-roll bar etc. 
 I know all rally games do this, but it takes time away from the action. The career mode can be 
 a bit confusing, once you finish a cup or challenge, you don`t really know what to do next, you 
 need to play with the interface to select a next cup or challenge to take part it. Again, takes 
 time. Compared to games like Need for Speed, this game feels a bit slow and you`ll be spending 
 too much time not actually driving.
  
  The actual gameplay is not bad, it`s kind of fun, but the experience just feels a bit plain. I 
 guess that`s rally, you race against the clock, no action with other cars. Maybe if the times were 
 harder to beat and the game was more challenging, then it would be more immersive. As it is, it 
 just feels too easy, especially if you`ve tried games like RBR or even the TOCA series.
  
  Graphics are so-so: the cars` colours are bright, they look fantastic on the replays. But the environment 
 is very very washed out and dead. I guess this is one of the reasons why the system requirements 
 are not massive. The game certainly runs buttery smooth on any decent pc. It really is extremely 
 smooth. No hiccups at all, no stutters, no skipped frames, nothing of that sort. It feels like 
 you`re playing an arcade racer on the XBOX or Playstation, it is so smooth. I guess it may also 
 be due to the fact that there`s very little or none at all interactivity with the environment. 
 Basically, the game looks very arcadey, but at least it`s very very smooth.
  
  All in all, I`ll recommend this game for a bit of console-style-and-feel driving, but I`m just 
 not sure it`s challenging and colourful enough to make you keep coming back for more. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gauravfox
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 9, 2008 11:21 pm PT
Review:  Colin McRae 2005
  This is one of the best Rally game ever created for a PC platform. The game portrays a stunning 
 display of sheer rally driving in excellent environment conditions. the graphics are amazing, the 
 realism adds to the challenge. The variety of cars [classic and modern] makes the game more interesting. the 
 stages available with different weather conditions makes it spectacular indeed !. The best part 
 in the weather conditions is the effect of the rain, man...! its actually pouring cats n dogs out 
 there..!. The arcade level is pretty cool too.. with lots of unlockables, the player has a lot of 
 gameplay to look forward to.
  
  The downside of the game is mainly with the controlling of the car, it seems naturally hard for 
 an average gamer to maneuver the mean machines from fallin off the cliffs or driving off the track.
 
  
  I would definitly recommend this game, as it is one of the 'must haves' for a race-o-holic ! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: f_an
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 1, 2008 7:12 pm PT
Review:  The idea of a racing game being entirely time trials with no other opponents would normally scare 
 me off from the game. However, Colin McRae Rally 2005 has a great mix of arcade and simulation 
 into the game, with great cars, damage system, tracks, and physics. 
  
  After playing through the game, not having opponents to race against makes sense and doesn't hinder 
 this type of racing game. What really makes this game is how it isn't a hardcore realistic simulation 
 game and is fairly easy to get into if you've played other racing games. However, it isn't entirely 
 arcadey either and has a good amount of depth.
  
  The entire idea of the game is to race through a course on your own on roads that are just wide 
 enough for your car. Before the race you can repair your car as long as you have enough time (repairing 
 each part deducts the amount of time you have left before the race) and adjust your cars settings 
 such as tires, springs, gearbox and steering. The game also gives you the info of the track, telling 
 you how much of each surface will be on the track (smooth asphalt, gravel etc) . The adjustments 
 and track info may seem a bit basic to some simulation racing fans but I think it's great for this 
 type of game. You don't need to know a lot about cars and tuning your car after a few hours of 
 playing the game becomes very easy. 
  
  There different types of car classes (2 wheel front drive, 4 wheel drive, rear wheel drive etc) 
 and the cars feel quite different between the classes and they all have a good feel to them. The 
 surface that you're driving on also changes how your car reacts drastically as well. The different 
 between wet gravel and smooth asphalt is noticeable and rear wheel transmission cars have trouble 
 driving on off road surfaces. This is probably the best thing about Colin McRae 2005, is simply 
 how the cars feel; the game strikes a very good balance between arcade and simulation and the physics 
 for the most part are well done. The graphics look good and you don't need a good computer to play 
 this game. 
  
  There are a few downfalls to this game. In the beginning of the game you will have a problem turning 
 the wrong way on some split roads even when the one road is blocked off by tape. After being a 
 few hours into the game, this problem disappears for the most part (but never entirely) but something 
 should have done in the few tracks that have this confusion. The indicator that pops up, telling 
 you how hard the next turn is going to be is also a bit off at times. For the most part its very 
 valuable and well done but at times it pops up either too early or too late and at other times 
 it will tell you it's an easy turn when in reality it's a lot harder to take on. 
  
  Colin McRae Rally 2005 is probably the driving game that I've put the most hours into than any 
 other game. Whether it is or not, it's still kept me busy and I've had a blast with it. It's the 
 best racing game ever and it can be a bit short on content compared to other racers but it's still 
 a fun game with a great toned down simulation feel to it. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: aco1986
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 26, 2007 2:35 pm PT
Review:  The game looks like there are no changes but they are. For example the cars now look more realistic 
 especialy when you do damage to your car, world detail is the same as 04 and the weather effects 
 are great. There are variety of options to play  race or 
 rally stages) . Before each stage it would be wise to setup your car (this is the most important thing 
 if you want to win races) and there are 4x4 cars to race too. Multiplayer is great experience but 
 not so good as 04 (there is no chat box in lobby) . You can unlock circa30 cars including bonus cars. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fastpunk
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 21, 2008 9:32 am PT
Review:  Colin McRae Rally has reached with this 2005 edition the 5th episode. The previous game is considered 
 by many as the best in the series so the 2005 edition really had a though mission to accomplish. 
 I must admit I haven't finished the game yet but I did play through a lot of it and have gathered 
 enough info to put together a thorough review.
  
  The most striking thing about CMR05 is how fun it is to play it. You can engage in the Career mode, 
 which takes you through a series of events that once bested, will unlock cars and upgrades. Then 
 there's the Championship mode where you get to be Colin McRae himself and race for the crown of 
 World Rally Champion. There are also other two modes: Challenge and Multiplayer. The first is like 
 a quick race mode while the second one allows you to play a split-screen game or race online against 
 other people.
  
  I didn't count how many cars there are but I'd say around 30. If you occasionally watch the WRC 
 you will recognize most of these cars: the Citroen Xsara, the Subaru Impreza or Ford Focus. Of 
 course, there are many other vehicles, some belonging to a different era of rally racing, like 
 the Ford Escort or the legendary Audi Sport Quattro. There are also a number of performance parts 
 to unlock for each car, giving the game a bit more depth.
  
  But the thing that adds the most depth (and where CMR05 shines) lies in the game's impressive mechanics. 
 Unlike other games about cars and racing, CMR05 has an outstanding damage system that looks and 
 feels right. Also, things like tire or suspension choice have a dramatic impact on your racing 
 time so it's important to make the right choice. This might sound intimidating for rookies but 
 it's actually pretty simple: you consult the race info section (where you are briefed about weather 
 conditions and surface conditions) and then simply make a choice based on what you've just learned. 
 Simple yet effective. Few racing games make driving so intense and entertaining without sacrificing 
 realism.
  
  The graphics are another thing about CMR05 that will surely impress. The game simply looks amazing, 
 the cars are detailed (their windows shatter on impact, the body bends and gets dirty etc.) and 
 the environments are beautiful, you even have stuff like time of day, weather conditions, tons 
 of foliage and great particle effects. But it gets better: the hardware requirements are low, enabling 
 this game to run smoothly even on low end PCs. I played this on a 5 year old Athlon XP CPU and 
 it could run this baby at 1024x768 and medium to high detail without even breaking a sweat. CMR05 
 is also very stable, I haven't had problems with the game, no crashes or bugs. It seems the developers 
 aren't called Codemasters for nothing.
  
  The other aspects of the game are also very solid. The sound is good and of course, Nikki Grist's 
 voice is still there to guide you through the various races. It's nice to hear him in this edition 
 too, his info during races is invaluable and very accurate. The Multiplayer mode is a bit lacking 
 though. But I like how you can play Split Screen, something many PC games have forgotten. Of course 
 you can play online against other people or over a LAN. In any of these situations, the racing 
 is fun but there aren't too many race modes.
  
  Needless to say this is one of those games that can appeal to a large variety of gamers so I warmly 
 recommend it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jonsono
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jan 25, 2007 8:38 pm PT
Review:  first of all im no fan of rally games. i got this game for free and from the cover it looked like 
 crap so i felt sorry for it and decided to play it. Boy, was i suprised! the graphics were so awesome 
 especially all those realistic shawdow effects. the cars looked very realistic too, and looked 
 cool. the sound was alright. not much to say here.
  
  the gameplay was nice and really immersed you in the world of rally. i loved the satisfying physics.
 
  
  i dont know if i can recommend buying this game, but if you can get it for free, then do so! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nicolasmk2
Rating: 5
Date: Jun 11, 2006 8:50 am PT
Review:  I installed the game, navigate trough the game menu and start a race. When it finished loading 
 and I saw graphics, environment, etc, etc I was totally impressed. But then I played, and in the 
 first turn I noticed something that was not that great gameplay Ive read. I was totally disappointed 
 by this gameplay. It feels like the cars were toys, not a good sense of weight/gravity and something 
 more was wrong with de adherence in the turns. Not good for my taste. 
  I switched from CMR 2 to 2005, and the feeling when driving in the CMR 2 was a lot more superior 
 to 2005. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: terryprior
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jan 13, 2006 8:58 am PT
Review:  The racing environments span eight countries and include 52 unique international stages (the rally 
 nomenclature for route or course) ; you race over mud, ice, snow, gravel, tarmac, and rain. Each 
 surface requires its own special technique, as for example the cars slip a lot more on ice than 
 they do on tarmac. The rough and twisty country courses contain hills and valleys and even waterways 
 you must traverse to get where you need to go. The weather can be clear, cloudy, rainy, snowy, 
 stormy, or foggy, and these conditions affect the road surface and thus the driving itself; and 
 the time of day shifts as you race from early morning to midday to night. This title does not attempt 
 to replicate a real-life competition such as that in Mobil 1 Rally Championship, and instead features 
 simulated rally racing in Australia, Corsica, Indonesia, Great Britain, Greece, Monaco (Monte Carlo) , 
 New Zealand, and Sweden. Half of the countries have what are called "super-special" stages, in 
 which two rally cars compete against each other on the same track, with one starting on an inner 
 loop and the other on an equal-length outer loop. But it is noteworthy that at the outset only 
 a few of the eight rallies are initially open to you for racing.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: glentel
Rating: 9.1
Date: Dec 7, 2005 7:40 pm PT
Review:  Every time there's a new Colin McRae coming out, I keep saying to myself that it won't be very 
 different and better than the one before and... I'm always wrong!
  
  This racing game is excellent! I'm playing it with a Logitech Momo Steering wheel and pedals and 
 the gameplay and force feedback effects are awesome.
  
  The graphics are great and you don't need a 7800 GTX to enjoy the game.
  
  I haven't played 
 the career mode yet but I sure will play it in the next couple of weeks.
  
  All in all, this is a must have game if you like realistic racing games, particularly rally racing. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zorlok83
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 3, 2005 3:52 am PT
Review:  For the Rally fans (and of course ppl who drive rally) this is going to be not more than 15 minutes 
 of adaptation to the steering. So the learning curve is pretty quick.
  There are lots of races in the carrer mode however, I believe that the real fun lies in racing 
 the time with one of your friends (spent like 3 weeks nonstop) .
  
  The damage and the graphics in the game are the best so far in any game, and I believe that the 
 next best thing would be another collin mcrae :) , and yes there is no sound (unless the sound you 
 want is the engine noise and the co-driver, lets face it! who would like some commercial song going 
 on in the background while you're driving rally? this is not need for speed or midnight club!!!)
 
  
  Overall, the best Driving game one could possibly play! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: viper_najem
Rating: 8.4
Date: Nov 10, 2005 1:52 am PT
Review:  Man is a wonder to behold. Whenever a game which is so foolish in terms of exaggerated action theme, 
 or unbelievable gameplay, people begin to yell proclaiming it trash. It's so strange that these 
 same individuals also criticize some masterpieces of gaming for being a real simulator. What a 
 pity.
  
  This game isn't for everyone. There. I said it. Satisfied now? If you take your time and start 
 a long, tedious, hard-boiled journey down Colin McRae Rally 2005 alley, you'll be rewarded with 
 an experience that will make you feel you actually invented something. The rally spirit is as it 
 is: Realistic driving (especially on the more serious Manual Mode) , tough bumps, turns and handbrake 
 sequences... It's back to driving school with this game... An experience that transcends all other 
 wannabees. My only complaint is the lack of any real depth in Career and Championship modes.
  
  Graphically, the game is a triumph. The damage effects are first-hand. No game has attempted 
 this kind of challenge as Codemasters have proven they can. The environments are so lifelike and 
 articulate. You can even see dirt on broken section of the body. Fantastic.
  
  Sound: Apart from the title theme, music is nowhere to be found. But who cares? Engine SFX and 
 weather as well as dirt sounds are a pleasure to the ear. Crowds cheer you as you pass by them.
 
  
  Again, don't play this game is you think Need for Speed Underground II is a racing game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kitch88
Rating: 8.9
Date: Oct 12, 2005 12:53 pm PT
Review:  Ultimate Rally Sim - Enough said.
  It is a SIMULATION though, like every hardcore Flight Simulator, CMR 2005 is accurate to the last 
 detail. You can feel every bump, stone, pot hole and jump in the game, and the car will react to 
 it. This in turn makes the game like the Real Thing, chuffing hard.
  
  I started playing the game with the keyboard, and over a month or two i was able to race very competitivly 
 and beat the game... then for my birthday I was bought a steering wheel, now I'm a complete Newbie. 
 I'm having to remaster every track, car and setup just to prevent myself finishing last.
  
  The game, with a wheel will ruin the fun, there is no pick up and play with CMR 2005, but looking 
 at what the game features, Codemasters never wanted that, it is a Hardcore Simualtion, and needs 
 to be treated like it. Play it like you want to become a rally driver and you will be ok, play 
 it like your taking a muscle car for a spin on Driv3r and you will crash an die.
  
  But when you master it, you will never but it down... its like riding a bike, once you can do it, 
 you feel brilliant and never want to stop doing it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TILER_FX
Rating: 5.2
Date: Feb 8, 2005 6:06 am PT
Review:  colin rally is a great graphics simulation of rally racing
  but we must but in our consideration that the game is so difficult to play and enjoy
  the value 
 of the game not make it difficult to make a true simulation 
  i know rally in fact diffuclt but it is not an excuse to annoy the gamers with this extreme diffuclty 
 !!!!!
  the game must produce entertainment not annoying 
  this is the key of sucsess of any game ( entartainment)
  the graphic of the game is amazing and 
 the special effect if very apparant
  the sound is fit and vioces too
  the career system in the game look disappointing 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nando2323
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jan 24, 2005 1:54 am PT
Review:  If you are looking for a great Rally Game that will have you on the edge for many hours of gameplay. 
 Well look no futher Colin Mcrae 2005 is you fix that you been looking for. What a very well done 
 racing game.
  Gameplay wise this game is like no other great online play, awsome career mode, and very good replay 
 value. As graphics goes it has great graphics with very nice visuals and effects, what I love the 
 best is watching your replay with damage set all the way up and watch your car just fall apart 
 as you hit things, and jumps. The sound in this game is good it could of been a bit better some 
 problems with compatibality really restricted this from being a perfect 10. 
  As for value its definately worth the money, Im talking 19.99 for a super game that will give you 
 many days worth of play time.
  Final thoughts is that besides its few glitches this is definately a solid 9 out of 10 if maybe 
 they fixed some of the glitches then it would definately be closer to 10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dslyderink
Rating: 8.2
Date: Nov 5, 2004 11:57 pm PT
Review:  Well to be honest there isn't a great deal of difference between 04 and 05. The graphics and general 
 feel of the game are very similar, but what can you expect? It's a simple game. Rallying. All one 
 can do is add a bit more variety, and that has been done by Codemasters in this release. They have 
 added Germany to the country list, and the existing 8 countries have all new rally circuits to 
 conquer. Also, there is a plethora of new cars to try out, and thanks to the wonderful Career Mode, 
 you can try a great many of these out as you climb the career ladder, taking part in dozens of 
 cups and championships, all with unique car selection.
  
  There's also a detailed damage model now shown on screen so you can have all your mistakes rubbed 
 in your face as you see damage warning colors flash and light up.
  
  All in all, if you are new to rallying you can't lose with this game IF you like car simulations 
 that is. Get a steering wheel if you want to experience this for all it's worth though.
  
  If you've got 04, you may not find this a worthwhile upgrade, but I did - and I'm a picky bugger 
 about value for money! 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
