-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Coliseum
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/strategy/coliseum/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Feb 20, 2004
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 3.8
Critic Score: 3.8, 6 Review (s)
User Score: 5.1, 15 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Shrapnel Games
Developer: Stormcloud
Genre: Strategy
Date:     Jan 6, 2004

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Coliseum is surprisingly dull and sloppy, and it's lacking in both personality and depth. 

  Game concepts don't get much better than this. Take a standard text-based sports management title 
 and replace the baseball or football with gladiatorial games. Yes, home runs and touchdowns may 
 be pretty exciting, but they don't quite compare to blood sport when it comes to visceral stimulation. 
 Or at least that's the theory. The reality, as expressed by gladiatorial management sim Coliseum, 
 is surprisingly dull and is lacking in both personality and depth.  

          Coliseum actually has no ties to the gladiators of ancient Rome. The battle-loading screen 
 features this knight in full armor, who apparently chose a life of battling to the death over doing 
 dinner theater at Medieval Times.     

  There just isn't enough here to hold your interest for long, despite the intriguing premise. Taking 
 on the role of a gladiator manager who's looking after a team of three warriors in a 40-day season 
 that leads to a championship tournament certainly seems promising at the outset. The object of 
 the game, of course, is to sign and train the top warriors in the circuit, wipe out the opposition 
 in the arena, make some gold by drawing big crowds, and keep the bloodthirsty populace entertained. 
 There are some role-playing elements -- since you'll roll your in-game avatar's loyalty, performance, 
 reputation, development, and healing statistics -- but the focus is on building a team of talented 
 fighters who are able to scrap like Russell Crowe in  Gladiator .  

  Yet gladiatorial life has never seemed so boring. Opportunities to develop warriors are limited. 
 Training is available, although there are just two methods for working on each of a fighter's five 
 attributes, which include strength, speed, agility, durability, and intangibles. To increase strength, 
 for instance, you can order up some weight lifting, while to boost speed you can call for wind 
 sprints. Furthermore, to add to the intangibles, you can send your warrior to charm school. There 
 are also two additional training selections that give promising youngsters the chance to work with 
 veterans to buff up their skills across the board.  

  All of these options cost gold, of course, so you have to be discreet regarding who gets to pump 
 iron and run laps. But aside from this, there isn't much to plan out because you have just three 
 gladiators to manage at any one time. And since one of these has to be designated as your primary 
 warrior, you only have to worry about training two. Training also takes some time to show results, 
 so you don't have to revisit your choices very often. Needless to say, this really cuts down on 
 the decision making. It also stands in stark contrast to traditional sports management titles, 
 because in the typical baseball or football game you have to deal with at least a couple of dozen 
 players who are entering training camp each year.  

  Additionally, warriors in Coliseum come with few distinguishing features. Their stats are nice 
 as a starting point, but there isn't anything beyond that to allow you to identify with them. There 
 are no biographies, and there are no obvious categories for attitude or personality. Don't expect 
 to care much when one takes an accidental shot to a "pressure point" and keels over dead in the 
 arena. Personal characteristics apparently do come into play at times. For example, according to 
 the in-game help files, a manager's high loyalty score is supposed to make fighters with an "attitude" 
 easier to handle. However, it's impossible to see any evidence of these mechanisms in action because 
 many key ratings, such as potential and troublemaker, are hidden. In the end, only warrior names 
 stand out, and this is not a good thing. All of the default names in the game are embarrassing 
 fantasy clichs of a sort that you might have found cool when naming D&amp; D characters in 
 eighth grade. It's hard to see what the appeal of monikers like Vatla Boneslime and Upuke Chaoslaugh 
 would be to the presumably adult developers at Stormcloud Creations.  

  Other management options are equally superficial. Warriors can be buffed up before going in to 
 a fight with expensive potions that raise attribute skills, but there are only three types of these 
 concoctions, and they vary only by strength and possibility of harmful side effect. You can also 
 pay for enchantments to increase attributes. Again, choices here are very limited, and most of 
 the available spells are less than enthralling. A good example of the selection here is "vampiric 
 bond," which is an insurance policy of sorts that increases all stats of surviving warriors by 
 two whenever one of their colleagues is killed in action.  

  There are standings to follow and news reports to look over after each day of action, but the latter 
 is worthless because of a concentration on meaningless trivia about such things as the king's depression-suffering 
 nephew. Current events also aren't synced with battles, so you can emerge from a fight on the hottest 
 day of the year to find that the top news story is "the coldest winter in living memory." Finally, 
 you can tweak the attendance and rake in gold by advertising, although there are just a handful 
 of venues from which to choose. Essentially, you can either go the cheap route by using posters, 
 or you can pay big bucks to get a message in to the coliseum program. Likewise, you can pay big 
 bucks to have a note sent to the king's court.  

  Of course, the lack of management depth might be at least partially forgivable if Coliseum boasted 
 an impressive combat engine. But it doesn't. Battle sequences are even more disappointing than 
 the rest of the game, largely because there is little to do but watch them unfold. Tactics consist 
 of choosing a defensive, normal, or aggressive approach to the fight and then clicking your mouse 
 button. From there, you simply read a repetitive, grammatically challenged play-by-play that details 
 each lunge and thrust; you listen to excruciatingly overacted "Oof!" and "Argh!" sound bites when 
 weapons strike home; and you wait for one warrior's pool of willpower points to be reduced to zero. 
 It's similar to watching combat in a game of tabletop D&amp; D but without the pulse-pounding thrills 
 of getting to see someone roll dice.  

          Options between fights are very limited, and what is presented is marred by valueless trivia, 
 like this news report that mentions a magical barrier that plays no role in the game.     

  Visuals and sound also go easy on the thrills. Menu screens consist mostly of white text atop beige 
 backdrops with a texture that mimics papyrus, which is a combination that's been almost calculated 
 to put you to sleep. What few graphics are present are based on a medieval theme, which includes 
 a battle-loading screen that features a knight who's decked out like he's on his way to the Crusades. 
 Such pictures seem wildly out of place, especially considering the Roman associations with the 
 game's title and the presence of a helmeted Roman gladiator on the game's box. Audio quality isn't 
 any better. Along with the aggravating grunts and groans noted above, the game features a musical 
 score that consists of airy tones that are usually found on a CD that comes with a picture of waterfalls 
 on the cover. You might actually need to listen to such a relaxation disc after spending some time 
 with Coliseum.  

  Sloppy, shallow, and ultimately forgettable, the game never lives up to its undeniably catchy concept. 
     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (1 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: jpinard
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jan 10, 2004 1:26 am PT
Review:  Coliseum is a 1-man effort, and for such a small development team and text-based gameplay, this 
 game is amazingly fun. Ok dont stop reading yet!
  
  New ideas in the PC genre are few and far between, but Coliseum is original and takes you on an 
 interesting ride. Don't let the fact this is mostly a text-based game scare you off. I don't like 
 text based sports-sims at all, but with the focus being on ancient Roman Gladiator management, 
 you just have to give it a try. Once again, don't let the term "management dissuade you either. 
 Though you manage the gladiators careers, you get a dialogue of their fights, and can influence 
 their style and aggressiveness. If you know how to read (you're reading this so you obviously do) , 
 you'll really enjoy the creative dialogue in the game immensely. In between fights is a plethora 
 of things to do for promoting fights, training new gladiators, and lots of other things. Keep in 
 mind the demo is just a tiny taste of everything in the published games, and the developer has 
 already promised to add more NEW features!
  
  For just $25 you get the game with an actual NICE printed DVD case (not a paper sleeve) , and a 
 manual that won't make you go blind.
  
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
