-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Comanche 4
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/sim/comanche4/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Dec  4, 2001
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7.7
Critic Score: 7.9, 28 Review (s)
User Score: 7.8, 339 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: NovaLogic
Genre: Helicopter Sim
Date:     Nov 12, 2001
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
In the Comanche series' fourth installment, NovaLogic has gone back to what it does best -- making 
 flight sims with as much bang-per-flight-minute as possible. 

  The first two games in NovaLogic's Comanche series were flight simulations in the loosest sense 
 of the word. However, Comanche 3 tried to please the hard-core crowd as well. In the series' fourth 
 installment, NovaLogic has gone back to what it does best -- making flight sims with as much bang-per-flight-minute 
 as possible.
 
 Although it can be classified as a flight simulation, Comanche 4 really isn't a simulation of anything, 
 except perhaps what it would be like if aliens were to land in your front yard in craft shaped 
 like an advanced US Army helicopter and if the US Army were to let you fly this craft on many adventures. 
 Departing controlled flight in Comanche 4 is nearly impossible unless you actually crash into something. 
 The flight model is billed as being "scalable," but this really only means that you can toggle 
 two advanced options: slip control and limited cyclic range. (The manual refers to pilot-induced 
 oscillations, but this does not appear in the game.) Neither one of these affects the flight model 
 very much. The avionics are similarly sparse, and in lieu of different weapons modes, you simply 
 select your weapons via the keyboard, let the computer target the threats for you, and fire away. 
 The game seems to be designed for play in first- or third-person mode, since the cockpit view is 
 extremely restricted, sparse, and serves no real purpose, especially when suspension of disbelief 
 isn't possible.
 
 In fact, the whole game seems designed so that casual players can get into the action as quickly 
 as possible. There are three altitude presets, and while flying at high speed on the low altitude 
 preset runs the risk of crashing into a hill, observing a reasonable speed limit makes this setting 
 a suitable proxy for "Nap of the Earth" flying so crucial to helicopter survivability. There is 
 an automatic "pop up" mode that lets you quickly rise above an obstacle to fire your weapons and 
 then returns you to your previous altitude setting. The game is even controllable via the mouse/keyboard 
 setup ubiquitous in first-person shooters, which suits the game's style just fine. Comanche 4 also 
 works with a joystick, throttle, and even rudder pedals and lets flight sim veterans reverse the 
 collective so that instincts from more hard-core sims like Longbow don't have to be unlearned. 
 But having a controller setup worth several hundred dollars isn't any advantage in this game. For 
 those who like to do things by the book, there are a series of tutorial missions that will run 
 you through all of the Comanche's systems and have you flying the campaigns in less than 30 minutes. 
 The keyboard overlay is a great touch and reminds you how you used to be able to control all the 
 functions of even "advanced" flight simulators with just one row of function keys. In many ways, 
 Comanche 4 is a throwback sim with modern graphics. Which is just fine.
 
 Despite this seeming tilt toward casual players, the missions in Comanche 4 are actually quite difficult. 
 The game throws numerous bad guys at you at once, and the lack of any countermeasures (like flares 
 or chaff) combined with the fact that enemy missiles and gunfire are almost supernaturally accurate 
 means that many missions will require numerous attempts. There are two enemy difficulty settings, 
 normal and advanced, which should have probably been labeled "superhuman" and "from outer space." 
 The missions themselves are a mix of stealthy seek-and-destroy and simply blowing up everything 
 in sight. There are supposed to be consequences to not keeping your radar signature reduced (opening 
 weapon bay doors only for firing, for instance) , but with enemies having the aforementioned supernatural 
 powers, this doesn't seem to have much effect. The manual at one point also suggests keeping your 
 landing gear down when flying NOE so that if you hit the ground, you damage your wheels and not 
 your guns, so that's kind of odd.
 
 The missions themselves are split up into six "campaigns," although these are both quite short (five 
 missions each) and completely unconnected with one another, except thematically. The linear nature 
 of the campaigns extends to the missions themselves, which have the event triggers and scripted 
 plots with which flight sims fans have become very familiar. The missions do a good job of throwing 
 enemies out in front of you for you to then blow up, which (and this can't be emphasized enough) 
 is the whole point of the game. At times, this makes flying out to a series of waypoints completely 
 superfluous, since it would seem no less "realistic" to fly across the hill to the conveniently 
 placed "terrorist base." In-game sound is good, and the scripted radio chatter does fill the void 
 pretty well.
 
 Fortunately, stuff blows up real good in Comanche 4. While the graphics are a bit uneven, the special 
 effects are definitely the highlight of the game. NovaLogic has dropped its Voxel engine for a 
 3D polygonal one, and the results are generally impressive. Explosions and rotor wash are exceptionally 
 well done, with the effect of flying low over water being one of the signature effects in the game. 
 Unfortunately, the terrain isn't quite up to these high standards and has been done better in older 
 games, including USAF and Gunship. There are also a limited number of vehicle models, which is 
 a problem that has carried over from Comanche 3. It's definitely a good-looking game, though.
 
 
 Once you've replayed the individual missions enough to complete the whole thing, there's multiplayer, 
 which supports up to 16 players in a variety of game modes, including cooperative play. There is 
 also the standard deathmatch and team deathmatch. The game includes a mission editor as well, but 
 there is no "random mission generator" to extend the life of the single player past the scripted 
 missions. Frankly, after you've played those missions all the way through, you'll have probably 
 had enough.
 
 Whether or not you like your flight sims to be in any way realistic, Comanche 4 does a good job 
 of disguising the fact that you're playing a flying version of Serious Sam. The excellent graphical 
 effects, nonstop action, and nominal helicopter content make this a great game to fire up for a 
 while just as a change of pace. Comanche 4 is a good time in small doses, and while you'll quickly 
 get tired of the homogenous gameplay, you'll probably end up jumping back in sooner than you think. 
 That is, if you like to see stuff blow up. 
 
      
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (8 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: doc_kenny77
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 26, 2008 12:49 pm PT
Review:  I downloaded this game from gamespot. com. I'm just now getting in to Flight Sim and related games. 
 However, if your looking for a "as real as it can get flight simulation game for the Comanche" 
 this one isn't it. You have a reasonable amount of controls to use but no toggle switches inside 
 the aircraft. You do control the opening of the internal bay doors, the landing gear, and discharge 
 of the added EFAMS (stabilizer wings) I do like the added EFAMS for added load capacity of ordinance. 
 The 20mm cannon is a blast to use and very effective against ground units. Certain mission you 
 also have the added bonus of another Comanche and the ability to give it commands. (limited to 
 7 commands) . So, if your looking for a good "arcade" game involving helicopters this one is it. 
 If your looking for a "as close to the real thing" flight simulation this isn't it. Otherwise, 
 enjoy and Good Hunting. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chandu83
Rating: 1.8
Date: Jun 10, 2007 6:51 pm PT
Review:  Novalogic have been veterans in the gaming industry. Their games usually tend to create games based 
 on the exploits of the U. S Military, and not those routine FPS games with experiments gone wrong, 
 aliens and mutants.
  
  In an industry that is saturated with such titles, Novalogic have stayed away from the generic 
 formula of gaming, and focused on creating contemporary military titles. Or so it would seem.
 
  
  The initial two games in the Delta Force series were innovative and fun to play. But their progress 
 seems to have come to a standstill since then. A lot of below average titles were released, claiming 
 to have better enemy AI, improved graphics with fancy names such as special voxel engine and ambient 
 atmosphere with varied locations etc.
  
  Now, you dont expect any game developer who wants to make money in the market to say that their 
 game doesnt offer anything new from the million other FPS games out there, and if anything, its 
 a lot inferior comparatively.
  
  But Novalogic have stretched the truth a little too far. Because since Delta Force 2, we haven't 
 seen anything new in the series of titles that Novalogic have released.
  
  Every game that has come out since Delta Force 2, seems to have used the same engine and same gameplay, 
 which is to just navigate from one way point to another amid mindless chatter over the radio passing 
 instructions which make no difference to the game. You could blatantly ignore the instructions 
 more of the time, and still complete the mission.
  
  Comanche 4 is no different. It uses the same engine that was used in Delta Force 3, except that 
 instead of a person, you man a chopper. The graphics look extremely dated and yet again, the gameplay 
 is repetitive like in Delta Force and Armored Fist.
  
  To its defense, Comanche 4 has some interesting gameplay elements, like battling unmanned drones 
 in an urban setting etc. But the fact that you cannot save during the mission is extremely frustrating, 
 because some of the missions tend to be quite long, and this is not a game you would want to play 
 repeatedly.
  
  Any game that challenges you play over and over should be extremely entertaining and riveting, 
 something like Price of Persia. Comanche 4 does entice you to play a mission over and over to succeed. 
 The game is just not good enough.
  
  I am not only talking about the visuals, the gameplay in general tends to get boring once you are 
 through a few missions. I finished 25 of the 30 missions, and I just didnt want to play any longer. 
 It seemed like a complete waste of my time; especially when there are so many better games to be 
 played.
  
  While I admire the fact that Novalogic have taken a different approach, the games have not evolved 
 with time.
  
  Its pretty sad that a series that was released in 2000 has virtually remained unchanged for over 
 two years, and the graphics and gameplay have been rehashed to create a new bunch of titles in 
 2002. They are just not good enough to keep you interested for long.
  
  Verdict  Fail. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Link1990
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 12, 2006 3:15 am PT
Review:  Comanche 4, is no doubt, one of the most thrilling helicopter sims available. It is a significant 
 upgrade from its predecessors.
  The game play of this sim has no equal. The firefights are mostly fast-paced, and the combat mostly 
 involves multiple hostiles. The former Comanche games were much slower, and less exciting. This 
 game offers many improvements to the system, involving pre-mission cut scenes, and other small 
 additions that improve the game's formula.
  The graphics look stunning. The vehicle models are some of the most realistic-looking models ever 
 seen in the Comanche series. Even the special effects look impressive, and very much improved from 
 the earlier games. Another small detail is the infantry, though many have the same face, the models 
 still look realistic and behave properly.
  The sound effects are also impressive. The rotor blades are more audible when the torque is increased, 
 and the engine sound is almost soothing. Ground vehicles have good motor sounds, and rockets also 
 sound good when they are launched.
  The game features several different campaigns with multiple missions. It takes several game hours 
 to play through the whole campaign on hard mode, and the missions all vary in length. This game 
 even features a program which allows the user to create missions. Overall, the game length was 
 very satisfying.
  As explained here, Comanche 4 is no doubt the best game in its series. It features multiple improvements 
 to the original game, which allows it to be a worthy sequel. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kreig_jones
Rating: 4.2
Date: May 21, 2006 7:03 pm PT
Review:  I first read about Comanche 4 in a magazine where it was used for benchmarking GeForce 4 series 
 (the Ti & MX series) . The realistic ripples & near perfect reflections in the water impressed me 
 so much that I became its instant fan & longed to play Comanche. When I bought my graphics card 
 I got a demo of Comanche 4 with it. It played extremely well & was really fun to play. I really 
 longed to play the real game but couldnt find one in our locality. So after almost a yearlong 
 wait I finally got my hands on one. I was so freaking happy. I installed it and started playing. 
 I got through the tutorial mission. It was ok at the beginning but I continuously kept losing track 
 of my guiding chopper. When I went over to play the real missions they were far from what I expected. 
 None of them played like the Demo. All of those were extremely short missions only prolonged by 
 a devilish scheme by the developers.
  A scheme? Yes. They let no saves in the game. Theres always an actual mission, which is hell tough. 
 You have to go through it at least 20 times to successfully complete that thing. But the real glitch 
 is elsewhere. Before these heavy missions you have to face smaller missions, which really depletes 
 your health & softens you up for the next harder confrontation. Not only that, but these side missions 
 also takes an amount of time which is lost for every failed attempt & continues to add up to total 
 game play duration. So if it had taken 5 min for the hard mission X 10 attempts ~ 1 hour of play 
 to complete the mission but include the side missions, say total ~ 8 min X 10 attempt ~ 1  hour 
 of play. Its really frustrating to fly over & over again to the same thing. The game lacks the 
 real element of a good game  FUN. And for the first time it seemed that demos are nothing but 
 what trailers are to movies. Real thing is far from being what it looks in the short preview.
 
  I would recommend everybody to stay clear of this one.
  Finally some words about the graphics need to be said. The reflections are truly great, the ripples 
 are great but the overall feel is that of Desert Storm with slightly revamped graphics nothing 
 more. The terrains are similarly bland & blocky; the objects seem to float (no shadows) & cockpit 
 views stinks blocking the view in every possible manner. The Desert Storm was fun to play so we 
 ignored its graphics but Comanche 4 fails to deliver the goods. It seems it uses the same engine 
 as Desert Storm does. If you really want to play a flight sim go play Crimson Skies, you wont 
 regret it.
  These sum it up: - 
  1  Repetitive game play
  2  Mindless robotic missions
  3  Dated graphics
  4  Feeling of unease with using the cockpit HUD
  5  No saves
  6  Very 
 little prospect of using stealth. Its almost always visible to the enemy. Cant hide such a large 
 object can we.
  7  Lot of practice need to master the game.
  8  Extremely short missions do not allow that luxury.
  9  The toughness of the missions results 
 in long, boring game play that drags you along.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rey-Cazador
Rating: 7.3
Date: Apr 17, 2006 5:02 am PT
Review:  Comanche 4 is a great improvement over the last installment in terms of graphics and gameplay . 
 The missions are qite varied . However the game get's a bit repetitive over time . A fun game especially 
 if you are using a joystick.
  The reaction time of the chopper is good and the enimes are quite detailed .
  AI is good . The 
 game can get very boring if the cheats are used so , don't do that . It's a nice game to begin 
 with , great environs & weapons . If only the game had something of a carreer mode it would be 
 more entertaining . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: differentiation
Rating: 7.8
Date: Dec 25, 2005 9:33 pm PT
Review:  This game is perfect for supporters of the Comanche, which has been cut from the Army's agenda. 
 The Comanche is about stealth, but in this game, stealth is rarely used. For most of the missions, 
 my tactic was quite simple: find the enemy and destroy it, rarely of the sneaking around stuff 
 that one will find in the manual. Sometimes this meant revisiting a FARP frequently to patch up, 
 but the Comanche is mobile enough to the point where you can fly circles above the enemy. I always 
 equipped the EFAMS and it didn't matter to me whether the enemy knew I was coming or not. If they 
 saw me then sooner or later they were going to get lit up. Sometimes the mobile SAM launchers such 
 as the Gecko or terrorists armed with RPGs can ruin your day quickly, so I had to take the vehicles 
 out from a distance with a Hellfire missile, otherwise, Hydra missiles and the main gun are the 
 most used (even against airborne targets usually reserved for Stingers) . 
  
  The toughest battles are in the cities, because there isn't a good point of view to navigate. It 
 seems like F1 is the view that's most practical as it offers the broadest view. F2 is too cramped, 
 I forgone this at the expense of the cockpit feel. F3 is where you can see yourself in 3rd person 
 from the rear, helpful at times but since the helo is in the middle, it obstructs your view. I'd 
 have to give it a hard difficulty even if you're playing on Easy mode, because you can't save while 
 you are on a mission - you either finish it successfully or you'll have to retry it until you do, 
 which can be frustrating. For example, when you're 99% done with a mission while you're on low 
 health, brushing against a tree with your rotors could be disasterous.
  
  I didn't check out the multiplayer because think about it. Everyone will be flying a Comanche trying 
 to down the other guy with a Stinger. Even if the enemy dodges a Stinger, what's the prevent him 
 from escaping a salvo of them? So it's whoever spots who first that wins, not much variety there. 
 
  
  This isn't a complicated helicopter sim, it is fairly easy to get up and running in this game. 
 It can be tweaked for a more realistic feel. It feels like a mix between a sim and an arcade, so 
 if you're tired of overcomplicated aircraft sims then this could be the answer you've been looking 
 for. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bond007dude
Rating: 7.7
Date: Dec 20, 2005 3:04 pm PT
Review:  My Story-This game came in a pack of 4, for 20$. It has a nice intro movie.
  
  Gameplay-Good, but I wish the enemies weren't so difficult. I mean, the tank turrets move at like 
 300 rotations per minute! Ant they are much too deadly. 
  Also I wish ther wasn't so much targeting and it had a better manual aim with the mouse (it seems 
 laggy for some reason.) The pyshics are great and this game is mostly realsitc, but sometimes its 
 tiresome to dodge a constant barrage of missles. escpeecial when your counter-measures just don't 
 seem to do anything. 
  And I dont like how every single friggen helicopter keeps doing exactly the same thing when I shoot 
 a missle at it from a distance. Novaligic-I'd hate to say this but that gets boring. Secondly, 
 I hate how you can target something from a distance, creep up above a hill, launch a few missiles, 
 creep back under the hill, and have the hill take all the enemies' comebacks for you. That is just 
 as boring.
  The game does have some reddeming points however. Sometimes the gameplay gets really fun and it 
 has a neat little feature when it shows on a green TV thingy of your enemies getting wasted by 
 you. Not to mention the fact it can go to third person, first person, pilot, gunner or second person 
 whenver you feel like.
  
  Graphics-Good, allthough you need a good videocard to play this game. The only bad graphics is 
 when an oli rig explodes, it always makes the same explosion. At least its a good explosion... 
 
  Just to mention it, except for the explosions, the game's graphics remind me of a really souped 
 of N64 system's graphics, by the way.
  
  Sound-Good, but but no in-game music. Just like always, Novalgic does some superb voice-acting.
 
  
  Value-Kinda gets boring and annoying after an hour of constantly getting shot down, but at least 
 you can custom make your own levels.
  
  Tilt-Haven't played the multiplayer because Novalogic is EVIL! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: asyouwish
Rating: 8.7
Date: Sep 15, 2005 10:50 pm PT
Review:  The only helicopter-fight-simulation out there? It is the only one I know and it is great, but 
 I really would love to see Comanche 5 to be brought on to the market, as Comanche 4 is now 4 years 
 old.
  [BTW: If you know any other helicopter-simulation PLEASE let me know!!!]
  The graphics are still impressive, but obviously miss the newer touches of the last 4 years of 
  Advantage: All graphics are top-fluid. The video-frame-rate 
 is ALWAYS above 25fps.)
  It also has no surround-sound [5.1+ speaker-sound] , as far as I am aware, which would greatly help, 
 as one could 
  As one can imagine, the controls of a helicopter are complex, although the physical behaviour of 
 this heli.-sim. seems to me somewhat simplified - or is a RAH-66 military helicopter really as 
 easily to handle as in this game?
  The difficulty in this sim. comes with the speed and concentration one needs to bring into this 
 game, as, e. g. one is being hit by a guided missile almost faster than one comprehend, what just 
 had happened. In combat all decisions are split-second-decisions. Otherwise - cabooom- your Comanche 
 Helicopter will have ceased to fly *.#
  
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
