-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Combat Command 2: Danger Forward!
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/strategy/combatcommand2dangerforward/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Jan 25, 2001
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 6.2
Critic Score: 6.5, 12 Review (s)
User Score: 4.5, 11 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Shrapnel Games
Developer: Boku Strategy
Genre: Historic Turn-Based...
Date:     Dec 17, 2000

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Combat Command 2 concentrates on taking the fundamentals of wargaming and making them easy to manipulate 
 in a computer game. 

 Last summer, the release of the innovative Combat Mission: Beyond Overlord was a major event in 
 computer wargaming. However, outside the realm of tactical games (in which units represent single 
 vehicles and small groups of men) there really hasn't been much deviation from the formula that 
 has served wargamers for the past 20 years: a hex-based system derived from the traditional tabletop 
 wargames that were most popular in the 1970s. Combat Command 2 sticks closely to this tried-and-true 
 formula, but manages to seem like more than just another board-game port.           Click for full 
 size image    

 Combat Command 2 doesn't try to do anything revolutionary. Instead, it concentrates on taking the 
 fundamentals of wargaming and making them easy to manipulate in a computer game. The game doesn't 
 really introduce any new concepts, but it features the strategic decision making of a wargame without 
 so many details that the game becomes an unplayable mess. Thus, Combat Command 2 avoids the needless 
 complexity that plagues many computer wargames.   

  The game also eschews fancy graphics and sound, to the point where those unfamiliar with the standards 
 of wargames might think that Combat Command 2 is 5 or more years old. The unit graphics aren't 
 actually bad as far as wargames go; they are clean and functional, though the terrain is ugly and 
 can sometimes be difficult on the eyes. The sound isn't especially bad either; there just isn't 
 much of it other than perfunctory gunfire and vehicle sounds that do little more than alert you 
 to the fact that something is happening. Anyone who expects aesthetic gratification from computer 
 games should probably pass on Combat Command 2.           Click for full size image    

 Otherwise, Combat Command 2 features a robust gameplay system that concentrates on the difficulties 
 inherent in commanding large numbers of military units in combat. The gameplay is turn-based, and 
 it will be immediately familiar to anyone who has ever played a tabletop wargame. The game's scale 
 is 500 meters per hex with turns the represent four real-world hours (six hours at night) and units 
 of company size. Each of the more than 20 scenarios focuses on a battle or part of a battle and 
 typically lasts several historical days. The scenarios tend to be Mediterranean or Western Front 
 battles with an emphasis on amphibious landings and paratroopers. Units include American, British, 
 Italian, and German troops, and battles range from small conflicts like the one for the Heraklion 
 airfield in Crete, to a small portion of the Battle of the Bulge around Bastogne. Small-scale scenarios 
 can be completed in an evening, while playing a larger battle might take several days. The game 
 also features extensive rules for paradrops, glider landings, minefields, night combat, and all 
 the features you'd expect from a World War II game.   

  As its name implies, Combat Command 2 focuses on the problems of actually commanding troops on 
 the battlefield and thus includes a detailed command system that rewards you for keeping formations 
 intact instead of just spreading units around to get the optimal mix of combat factors. The printed 
 manual spells out all the game mechanics clearly and includes all the charts and tables used in 
 the game. There are no mystery calculations, and unlike The Operational Art of War series, Combat 
 Command 2 doesn't feature an excessive number of overly complex calculations. The game displays 
 the projected combat results table for each combat (dynamically, as you select units) so that you 
 can quickly see your chances for success.    

 Playing the game involves quite a bit of clicking, but because of the redundancy of the interface 
 (unit modes can be assigned either by clicking an onscreen button or by right-clicking the mouse, 
 for instance) the game plays significantly more smoothly than most similar computer wargames. The 
 game conveniently lets you display different vital information on the units themselves simply by 
 pressing the Tab key to cycle though a unit's statistics. Multiple zoom levels also help you keep 
 track of the battle. When you click on a unit, it's easy to see where it can move and how many 
 movement points it takes to get there. The only problem is that it's easy to accidentally move 
 a unit instead of deselecting it, although as you get used to the game, this becomes less of a 
 problem.           Click for full size image    

 Unfortunately, the artificial intelligence in Combat Command 2 is plagued by the same problems that 
 appear in virtually all wargames. Specifically, while the AI can manage individual units acceptably 
 and its tactics aren't bad, it has a hard time coordinating large attacks and sometimes acts as 
 if it can't see the forest for the trees. As with other wargames, these deficiencies are less evident 
 when the AI is on the defensive.   

  Regardless of the game's AI, Combat Command 2's solo scenarios are enjoyable enough. There is enough 
 variety in the scenarios to give you a range of possibilities, including attacking as either the 
 Axis or the Allies. To this end, there's a hypothetical Sealion scenario (the invasion of England) , 
 which gives the Germans a chance to drop paratroops, make amphibious assaults, and attempt air 
 landings.   

  However, Combat Command 2 was clearly designed with play-by-e-mail (PBEM) play in mind, and it's 
 most enjoyable when played in this manner. The computer can be told to handle up to four different 
 phases by itself, including direct fire, assault defense, withdrawals, and advances, and assigning 
 these functions to the computer lets you proceed at a pace of one mailing per player-turn. You 
 can also take control of individual phases yourself, although the game has a bug that won't let 
 you end your turn if you're using manual withdrawals but have no withdrawing to do. As such, PBEM 
 games should be played with computer-controlled withdrawals until a patch is produced. The AI decisions 
 in these phases are reasonable, and they won't hurt your chances of victory. The game even notifies 
 your opponent if you reload a previously loaded turn, which helps reduce the cheating that sometimes 
 occurs in PBEM games. The replay feature provides all the information you need from your opponent's 
 turn, and does so quickly, so there's little delay.           Click for full size image    

 The game also includes a scenario editor that lets you create other historical battles on a similar 
 scale, and the exchange of user-made scenarios is often what gives wargames like this extended 
 life. While would-be designers are currently limited to the terrain and unit mix in the game (and 
 thus can't create Eastern Front or North African scenarios, because there are no Russians or desert 
 terrain) , Shrapnel Games has plans to extend this same system to other theaters of war.   

  Combat Command 2 also fills a niche between purely tactical games like Combat Mission and operational 
 games like John Tiller's Panzer Campaigns series that depict entire campaigns on a larger scale. 
 There hasn't been a good World War II game that portrays battles of this scale since the venerable 
 V for Victory series. Combat Command 2 is only available by direct order through the Shrapnel Games 
 Web site at www. shrapnelgames. com. The game comes without a box, with the CD in a paper sleeve, 
 shrink-wrapped inside the manual. Despite its no-frills appearance, the game features enough substantial 
 gameplay to more than justify its $39.95 price tag. While it probably won't appeal to anyone other 
 than historical wargamers, these players will find Combat Command 2 a satisfying experience.   
  
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (0 Reviews)
-------------------------------------------------
