-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Combat Flight Simulator 2: WWII Pacific Theater
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/sim/combatflightsimulator2wpt/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Oct 13, 2000
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8.5
Critic Score: 8.3, 29 Review (s)
User Score: 8.4, 318 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Microsoft Game Studios
Genre: WWII Flight Sim
Date:     Oct 13, 2000 &raquo;  
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Due to its attention to detail and wide range of features, Combat Flight Simulator 2 has something 
 to offer almost every simulation enthusiast. 

 Microsoft's Flight Simulator series has been a mainstay of computer gaming for many years, but it 
 was barely two years ago that Microsoft first released a simulation of military planes. And while 
 Combat Flight Simulator was a solid first effort, it didn't manage to dominate the genre in the 
 same way the Flight Simulator series had reigned over civilian flight sims. Combat Flight Simulator 
 2 is Microsoft's attempt to improve on its predecessor while simultaneously shifting the venue 
 from the skies of Europe to the vast, blue Pacific. It's been several years since the last high-quality 
 WWII Pacific-theater sim, so the combination of an improved Combat Flight Simulator and the travails 
 of carrier takeoffs and landings proves successful in Combat Flight Simulator 2.   

  Combat Flight Simulator 2 is an improvement over its predecessor in almost every respect, and it 
 particularly shows that the development team was committed to improving the aspects of the original 
 game that were lacking. The most notable of these is the graphics. Both the aircraft and the terrain 
 models have been significantly upgraded, and the result is a very good-looking simulation. Considering 
 the limited variety of terrain in the Pacific - sand, jungle, and water - the terrain graphics 
 ran the risk of being monotonous. But Combat Flight Simulator 2 does an excellent job of making 
 these three recurring types of terrain look realistic and attractive. The overall effect does much 
 to make you actually feel as if you're in the Pacific theater - you'll occasionally spot an island 
 in the middle of the huge expanse of ocean, which conveys the feeling of tremendous space and distance. 
 The good weather effects further enhance the scenery, and the game even supports transform-and-lighting 
 effects with compatible video cards, which improve the graphics even further.   

  The aircraft models are particularly good in Combat Flight Simulator 2, and they stand in stark 
 contrast to the shiny planes of the original, which looked like flying toys. The aircraft in the 
 sequel look much more like real combat planes, thanks to a combination of detail and improved textures. 
 Furthermore, while the intact aircraft models are impressive enough, the damaged ones are even 
 more so. Unlike in its predecessor, damage in Combat Flight Simulator 2 is accurately reflected 
 in the aircraft models, to the extent that you can even see a plane's infrastructure exposed when 
 you shoot off pieces of the plane such as the tail or a wing. This visible damage corresponds well 
 to changes in the flight models, and effects like smoke not only represent physical damage but 
 also convey the different levels of aircraft damage. That is, if you see streaming black smoke 
 coming from your enemy, you can write him off. But sputtering or intermittent smoke means he's 
 still dangerous. Similarly, if you see black smoke coming from your own plane, get home or get 
 out.   

  The improvement in the graphics goes beyond the terrain and the aircraft models. The cockpits are 
 tremendously improved since the previous installment, and this is one area where the deficiencies 
 of the original Combat Flight Simulator have been fully addressed. The 3D cockpits in the original 
 game were a real weak point, so much that they were almost useless. However, the cockpits in Combat 
 Flight Simulator 2 are superb in 2D, and the 3D cockpits are also much better than before. The 
 only area in which the graphics fall a bit short is in the campaign screens: The 1940s-comic-book 
 look, while not ugly, is a bit plain and doesn't do enough to create a feeling of participation 
 or immersion. Fortunately, the game seems more authentic when you're actually flying, where the 
 radio chatter is just persistent enough to add to the atmosphere without being distracting.   

 
  The flight modeling in Combat Flight Simulator 2 is very good, and at the highest difficulty settings, 
 it will satisfy most experienced pilots. While not as unforgiving, and presumably not as realistic, 
 as the flight model found in some of the more hard-core online-only sims, Combat Flight Simulator 
 2 does an excellent job of accentuating the differences between aircraft. Factors like the Wildcat's 
 diving advantage and the Zero's superior turn radius and climbing capability are modeled well. 
 These aircraft also depart controlled flight more readily than their counterparts in the first 
 game, which makes skillful flying a tricky business. At lower difficulty settings, Combat Flight 
 Simulator 2 flies a lot like Microsoft's hybrid action-simulation, Crimson Skies, which will allow 
 inexperienced players to get used to air combat without the frustration of constantly going into 
 uncontrolled spins. The manual for Combat Flight Simulator 2 runs almost 300 pages and includes 
 everything from game information to WWII Pacific-theater history, descriptions of fighter combat 
 tactics, and interviews with both Japanese and American aces and provides a great resource for 
 those just getting into computer flight simulations.    

 The centerpiece of Combat Flight Simulator 2 is undoubtedly the carrier operations, and these highlight 
 the differences between a land-based European war simulation and a Pacific war simulation. Landing 
 on a carrier is a completely different experience from landing at an airfield, and for inexperienced 
 pilots, attempting to do so will often end in failure. Combat Flight Simulator 2 conveys orders 
 from your landing signal officer through a window in the corner of your screen, which shows a figure 
 giving flag signals as you approach, as text captions tell you that you're "too low" or "too fast." 
 A mission isn't a complete success until you're safely back on your carrier deck, and if you're 
 flying a damaged plane, the task becomes much harder. The experience of carrier operations adds 
 a whole new dimension to the game, and one that's immensely enjoyable, even as you learn it.   
 

  Fans of hard-core simulations will find that Combat Flight Simulator 2 does have several shortcomings. 
 The first is in the campaign. While Combat Flight Simulator 2 does offer a large, branching campaign, 
 which includes over 120 possible missions and lets you fly either as an American or Japanese pilot, 
 the experience offered by fully featured dynamic campaigns such as those found in Enemy Engaged, 
 MiG Alley, and Falcon 4.0 is absent. While dynamic campaigns were once a novelty that attracted 
 considerable attention simply for what they tried to achieve, the aforementioned games have done 
 much to make this feature something that serious simulation fans expect in a truly complete game. 
 Fortunately, the campaign in Combat Flight Simulator 2 does have a lot of replay value, and the 
 powerful mission editor that's included - the same one the developers used to create the campaign 
 missions - will add a lot more for some players. But there's nothing quite like the sense of a 
 real dynamic campaign in a military flight simulation, and so it's too bad that Combat Flight Simulator 
 2 had to stick with scripted missions.   

  The game's multiplayer options are also lacking. You're restricted to deathmatch or team head-to-head 
 play, which means that if you want to create a virtual squadron in order to fly single-player missions 
 cooperatively, you are out of luck - although, with the lack of flyable bombers, such squadrons 
 would be restricted in the types of missions they could fly anyway. This is also a shame, as unique 
 experiences like flying early-war torpedo bombers go unrealized in Combat Flight Simulator 2. In 
 fact, the lack of variety in flyable aircraft is another weak point in the game: seven types of 
 planes (counting the two Zero models as separate planes) is pretty limiting. Flyable Oscars, Warhawks, 
 and Airacobras are nowhere to be found. You'll encounter several of these as enemy or friendly 
 aircraft throughout the game, but it's too bad you can't jump in the cockpits of some of these 
 less common planes. Fortunately, the expandable nature of the Combat Flight Simulator series means 
 that you'll probably see these in an expansion pack some time in the future.   

  Even with its problems, Combat Flight Simulator 2 still has a lot to recommend it. In fact, the 
 game comes very close to being perfect for casual flight sim enthusiasts: The flight models can 
 be adjusted for difficulty, the graphics are eye-catching, the campaign is varied enough, there 
 are several good training missions, and the manual is always there to offer tips and explanations. 
 Hard-core flight sim fans who are used to detailed dynamic campaigns and robust cooperative multiplayer 
 options will find these aspects of the game to be lacking, but even the most experienced virtual 
 ace should find the carrier operations to be both interesting and challenging. The carrier ops 
 are easily the single most enjoyable aspect of the game, and just practicing traps on these early 
 flattops should keep you busy for a long time. If you somehow get tired of this, you can still 
 import aircraft from the original game (although you'll be stuck with the less attractive aircraft 
 models) and fly as British or German pilots if you choose.   

  Due to its attention to detail and wide range of features, Combat Flight Simulator 2 has something 
 to offer almost every simulation enthusiast. Besides, it's been too long since the last great Pacific-theater 
 flight sim. Although it's not the definitive WWII flight sim, Combat Flight Simulator 2 was definitely 
 worth the wait.    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (1 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: the_lerxst
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 27, 2005 11:06 am PT
Review:  CFS 2 provides a good and fairly realistic environment for dog-fighting. The planes themselves 
 are one of the best features. The performance characteristics of each plane are modeled well, as 
 would be expected from the company that gave us the Flight Simulator series. This requires green 
 pilots to learn quickly the strengths and weaknesses of his and his opponents' planes... or go 
 down into the Big Drink. 
  
  There may never have been a point in history when two aircraft as different as the Zero and the 
 Lightning faced off in combat. Try to out-turn a Zero in a Lightning and you face certain death. 
 But if you zoom past him, the Zero has only a split-second of shot opportunity before you're out 
 of range. Pinch off a few well-placed shots each time and soon enough he'll go down.
  
  Learning how to fight in each of the planes provides the bulk of the entertainment value. It's 
 fun, to be sure, but (believe it or not) some of us have a taste for ground attack. Dive-bombing 
 in CFS 2 is incredibly difficult, and there isn't a great variety of targets. None of these planes 
 were designed for dive-bombing. There are dive-bombers and torpedo bombers in CFS 2, but you can't 
 fly them.
  
  The graphics aren't great, but the Pacific consists mostly of water (being an ocean and all) , and 
 since ground attacking isn't a focus, the few islands that are there don't need beautiful terrain.
 
  
  The game is enjoyable but not great, due to its limited scope of operations. The flight models 
 are, by far, the best feature of the game, and learning to master each one will provide many hours 
 of enjoyment. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
