-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Combat Mission 3: Afrika Korps
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/strategy/afrikakorps/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Jan 29, 2004
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8.4
Critic Score: 7.9, 10 Review (s)
User Score: 8.2, 131 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: cdv Software
Developer: Big Time Software
Genre: Real-Time Wargame
Date:     Dec 3, 2003 &raquo;  
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Afrika Korps is the third installment of the acclaimed Combat Mission series, and like its predecessors, 
 it represents the absolute state-of-the-art in tactical wargames. 

  Afrika Korps is the third installment of the acclaimed Combat Mission series, and like its predecessors, 
 it represents the absolute state-of-the-art in tactical wargames. While it substantially uses the 
 same engine as the last Combat Mission game, Barbarossa to Berlin, it provides dozens of new scenarios 
 set in theaters uniquely suited to emphasize the strengths of the engine. It's a bit disappointing 
 that the engine wasn't further refined to address its relatively few weaknesses, but Afrika Korps 
 is still an excellent tactical wargame and a great addition to the series.  

          The new dust cloud effects reveal unit movements but can also shield you from attacks, 
 since you still can't blindly fire into areas that are obscured by smoke or dust.     

  Like the other Combat Mission games, Afrika Korps is a turn-based, hardcore WWII wargame that eschews 
 traditional hex-based gameplay in favor of more visceral 3D environments. Units are individual 
 vehicles or infantry squads, and after each side sequentially delivers orders for a turn, the combat 
 results are displayed in replayable 60-second movies. The movies are consistently engaging, since 
 you can't directly control you units while the action unfolds -- although the AI will automatically 
 alter unit commands in response to battlefield developments. Unit morale and fatigue, experience, 
 command, suppression, cover and concealment are all comprehensibly modeled, and the armor and armaments 
 of hundreds of included vehicles and guns are appropriately rated. Battles can involve a handful 
 of units that skirmish on a map as small as a single monitor screen, or they can scale up to massive 
 confrontations between dozens of tanks that battle through expansive landscapes. Buildings, trees, 
 and other terrain features are physically represented in the 3D environments, thus allowing you 
 to intuitively gauge the most promising attack routes and defensive positions. The Combat Mission 
 series does an unprecedented job in presenting a complex combat simulation in an incredibly accessible, 
 rewarding fashion.  

  However, the series is also showing its age. When the first Combat Mission game came out in 2000, 
 its 3D graphics were a huge improvement over the rudimentary or highly abstracted graphics in previous 
 wargames. 2002's CM: Barbarossa to Berlin retained the same core engine but also featured numerous 
 gameplay tweaks and improvements. There are a couple of notable gameplay modifications introduced 
 by Afrika Korps -- including desert dust clouds and a greater tendency for brush to catch fire -- but 
 otherwise the engine is identical to the one used by Barbarossa to Berlin. As a result, Afrika 
 Korps feels like a stand-alone expansion pack with somewhat dated graphics.  

          M3 Grants have a puny 37mm turreted gun, but they do feature a more powerful 75mm gun in 
 the hull. This means that you should definitely avoid hull-down positions.     

  Even though Afrika Korps doesn't feel as innovative as previous installments in the series, it 
 still offers a tremendous amount of gameplay. Its battles are set in Africa, Italy and Crete, and 
 they commence with the Italian-African offensive in late 1940 and end with the April 1945 skirmishes 
 in Italy. While the Combat Mission engine does a capable job of simulating infantry battles, its 
 real strength has always been rendering tank and armored vehicle clashes. Since the open African 
 terrain offered little cover for infantry in WWII, tanks enjoyed unparalleled prominence on the 
 theater's battlefields, and the Combat Mission engine is ideally suited for depicting the resulting 
 armored duels. Virtually every series of vehicle from every nation that fought in Africa or Italy 
 is available for use, including the multigunned American M3 Grants and the "Tinkertoy" Italian 
 tankettes. Forces from 10 different nations are represented, including Canada, Poland, and Australia, 
 and almost 70 historical (or historically inspired) battles and operations are included, thus allowing 
 you to re-create any key confrontation set in these theaters.  

  The new terrain and unit graphics aren't exactly representative of the bleeding edge in 3D graphics, 
 but they're appropriately detailed and do a more than serviceable job at drawing you into the action. 
 The dust cloud effects not only make the desert battles unfold in a more realistic manner, but 
 they present novel tactical challenges. The distinctive settings also effectively vary gameplay, 
 as desert battlefields that only offer dunes for cover play out considerably differently than do 
 showdowns in the forested or urban landscapes of Italy. There's no music, but sound effects are 
 generally great, since each gun and weapon type is represented distinctively. Units mutter phrases 
 using their own native languages and accents, which is a great touch, even though the voice acting 
 is pretty wooden and repetitive.  

  There's no single- or multiplayer campaign to wade through, but there are a few operations that 
 string together multiple battles with the same pool of units. In addition to the prepackaged battles 
 and operations, you can also create your own quick battles by randomizing or selecting the available 
 forces, the setting, and the size of the battle. Given the scale of these tactical battles, it 
 would be artificial to offer an encompassing Panzer General-style campaign. Still, the developers 
 should have at least collated the battles in chronological order, or they could have collected 
 related battles to give you some sense of accomplishment for fighting through major campaigns. 
 While the stand-alone, discrete battles work fine in multiplayer games, they aren't packaged into 
 a very compelling single-player game.  

  The biggest problem with the single-player game, however, remains the unchallenging AI. The AI 
 is completely incapable of mounting any sort of large scale offensive or managing a mobile defense. 
 While you can handicap yourself by giving the computer AI additional or more experienced units -- or, 
 alternatively, by weakening your own forces -- doing so isn't particularly satisfying since the AI 
 is still strategically inept. The tactical AI does a more capable job of adjusting unit commands 
 in response to battlefield developments, but it still often makes inexplicable decisions. For instance, 
 armored units consistently retreat under fire and haphazardly expose their flanks or trek across 
 open terrain instead of taking advantage of available cover. The AI is unable to use suppressing 
 fire, to initiate smoke bombardments, to use feints, or to lay ambushes, and as a result, it's 
 a very poor opponent. Even modestly experienced Combat Mission players will get decisive victories 
 over AI opponents in virtually every battle. The AI also does a poor job of pathfinding units between 
 waypoints, thus forcing you to micromanage units around obstacles. The AI in Afrika Korps isn't 
 any worse than it was in prior Combat Mission games, but it's disappointing that it hasn't improved 
 either, since the poor AI strips any longevity from the single-player game. Fortunately, Afrika 
 Korps is a fantastic multiplayer game, and players can establish a direct TCP/IP connection, use 
 a single computer in hotseat mode, or play by e-mail.  

          You can view the battlefield from virtually any angle, including this top-down perspective, 
 so the information displayed can be heavily customized.     

  While the other Combat Mission games were eventually packaged for retail release, Afrika Korps 
 is currently only available by directly ordering it from www. battlefront. com. Despite being produced 
 by a small developer, Afrika Korps is generally more feature-rich and polished than its more commercial 
 wargame peers. There are, however, a few minor technical quirks and features that make evident 
 its presumably modest production budget. There's still no way to conveniently adjust the game's 
 resolution, so it will naturally default to your desktop setting. Fogging effects don't work with 
 ATI video cards, and certain Nvidia and ATI drivers create additional problems, most of which are 
 well documented in the game's reference guide. The 30-page printed QuickStart guide is certainly 
 adequate for experienced players, but the more comprehensive manual is only provided as a PDF. 

  While it's a bit disappointing that Afrika Korps doesn't address any of the weaknesses of Barbarossa 
 to Berlin, it's still a great wargame, and its tank-friendly and diverse environments make it the 
 best installment in the series. Like its predecessors, Combat Mission: Afrika Korps manages to 
 offer an incredibly complex tactical wargame in an accessible package.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (6 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Michael_Dorosh
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 4, 2008 6:48 pm PT
Review:  The heyday of turn-based, squad-based, company-level tactical wargaming set in the Second World 
 War on the PC may have come and gone. Combat Mission was probably the ultimate expression of this 
 genre; Steel Panthers never graduated beyond alternating turns and the 2D map, and Close Combat 
 is still with us after more than half a dozen titles, but never broke successfully into 3D successfully 
 despite 2 or 3 tries (including the ill-fated G. I. Combat) . Panzer Command is slowly gaining traction, 
 however, and Combat Mission: Shock Force, the sequel to the original trilogy of Combat Mission 
 titles of which this game was the final entry, has arguably turned into more of a "platoon shooter" 
 than a serious tactical level game.
  
  Despite the fact this review is being written 5 years after release (an eternity in the PC world) , 
 CM: AK still occupies the high ground in this niche, from the perspective of serious, sim-minded 
 games. That's not a contradiction in terms. CM: AK has a lot of physics under the hood - tank shells 
 are tracked in flight, even get pushed by the wind, and such things as armour slope and the angle 
 the tank is sitting on terrain will have an effect on survivability and vehicle damage. But these 
 calculations stay under the hood, and a unique game interface keeps the player informed and up 
 to speed and makes this a fun game first and foremost.
  
  There are too many positive attributes to be able to effectively catalogue them all. The game is 
 open ended in that it has a fully user-friendly map editor. The downside is that you can only use 
 the terrain elements the game ships with - no importing of 3D models, and you can only vary the 
 elevations in 2.5, 5, or 8 metres increments up to 20 different levels - which is still a lot. 
 The graphics are dated, sometimes horribly so - no moving water, but the wind does rustle the leaves 
 on the trees. Nonetheless, you can build a map from scratch, or, amazingly, have the computer build 
 a pretty decent one for you at random, in either North Africa or Italy (which will pass for Northwest 
 Europe, too) . In the latter case, you can fully mod the terrain with new skins simply by dropping 
 new .bmp files into the appropriate folder (no in-game utilities are present, but it's simple to 
 do) . The scenario editor is a breeze to use, unlike, say, Operation Flashpoint, which required 
 a Ph. D in mathematics and a working knowledge of the Czech language.
  
  Gameplay is simple; victory conditions are either territorial (capturing flags, either static or 
 "dynamic", meaning you don't know for sure which one the enemy is going for) , casualty based, or 
 exit based, or a combination of the above. Single missions ("battles") can be either premade by 
 scenario designers (many are included on the release disc, more are abundant out in the online 
 community) or created on the fly by the "Quick Battle" system which will do them at random, either 
 on a map of your choosing, or on a random map, using any parameters you choose. If that isn't enough 
 flexibility, you can also play premade "Operations", a form of campaign that consists of several 
 "battles" fought over the same map, either to represent an advance over several hundred metres 
 of terrain, or a defence of a key position. The redrawing of the front line between battles was 
 a weakness that never really got ironed out in CMX1 - and unfortunately, Battlefront never figured 
 out how to do it, and dropped the idea from the new game engine. Too bad. Many gamers have used 
 CM: AK and its Eastern Front twin, CM: Barbarossa to Berlin, to create "meta-campaigns" which do 
 the same thing, only with the details tracked manually, on spreadsheets. They're a rewarding experience 
 in and of themself.
  
  The units in the game also speak to the enormous wealth of detail and flexibility included on the 
 disc; well-researched order of battle for German, British, Canadian, Polish, Australian, New Zealand, 
 South African, Italian, American and Free French forces in North Africa, Crete and Italy are included; 
 every major infantry battalion type, armoured fighting vehicle, ordnance type, light anti-tank 
 weapon, and a handful of representative soft-skin vehicles and aircraft are all included to portray 
 just about any action that took place from 1940 to 1945 in the Mediterranean theatre of war. And 
 they all speak their own language.
  
  Play is turn based, using simultaneous (WEGO) turns, either solo play, 2 player PBEM or TCP/IP. 
 Can you learn to play quickly? Yes. But you can't master it in an afternoon. There are hundreds 
 of different kinds of units, and mastering the complexities of such things as tank vs. anti-tank 
 weapons is just one facet. As an example of one of the thousands of things to learn, German units 
 after 1943 bristle with short-ranged weapons, though they won't fire them if suppressed by small 
 arms fire or high explosive, and if they fire them from inside a house run the risk of injury... and 
 that's just one detail of one facet of the game. Luckily there are decent info screens accessible 
 by a single command, and coloured bars showing things as armour penetration, without being obtrusive 
 in a FPS way. You have vital information at your command, without being hand-held. The game also 
 has a tutorial mission in the manual (not a walkthrough as in, say, Medal of Honor) and if you're 
 really stuck, the official forums can help you out and the CM: BB Strategy Guide is still for sale 
 and will be applicable in large part to this product though the unit-specific data in it will not. 
 
  
  There are some disappointments; BFC abandoned support to the game after a small number of official 
 patches citing the need to move on to the new game engine, and support on their forums was sometimes 
 openly hostile. And there are a few things that never got fixed; most importantly, the much-touted 
 "multi-turreted tanks" included in the game don't actually fire their guns at independent targets. 
 There are other minor bugs discussed on the official forums but none that should turn away a potential 
 customer, and the game is stable. The dated graphics include such things as 3-man squads substituting 
 for 10-man units on the battlefield - much like a counter o boardgame map - but the action is best 
 observed from above and play is fast and addictive, best enjoyed against another human. 
  
  A unique, fun, and realistic game that helped set a high standard which other games - including 
 it's own sequel - are still struggling to meet.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: hsedai
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 23, 2008 9:54 am PT
Review:  CMAK was the perfect and final sequal to this series of games. Finally, I was able to play with 
 the most realistic and dangerous tanks in WWII. I loved my huge tigers on the landscape made for 
 tanks... the desert.
  
  Now, we have the most realistic gameplay made for armor. The armor wars were just spectacular and 
 I could create my own scnarios using all of the armor in WWIi from the 1939 British Cromwell to 
 the 1945 Sturm Tiger. Obviously, the game is an armor enthusiast's dream and it actually helped 
 me with some of my model building. 
  
  Did you know they measured armor thickness vs round velocity and armor piercing capabilities (tungsten 
 vs HE) on every shot made?
  
  
  The music is limited to the start of the game and will make you laugh but other than that, there 
 is no real music to speak of. The sound is quite good and realistic which lends to the immersion 
 factor ten fold. This game plus surround sound can lead to a very loud and funky good time.
  
  The gameplay was a bit more intuitive than its predecessors imho. I found it to be easier since 
 the pathing worked much better and this incarnation actually had emotions of the tank commanders. 
 A tank crew could actually panic if they were green or under constant fire. 
  
  Yes, they still continued their perfect realism with infantry, artillery, mortar, and sharpshooter 
 behavior, but I found the most fun to be found in the armor battles. 
  
  I would definitely recommend that you purchase and install this game if you enjoy WWII games. This 
 game will put so many others to shame since the developers did not sacrifice a single remnant of 
 realism to deliver a fast paced game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ovrman
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jun 5, 2006 12:05 am PT
Review:  Strengths:
  -Continues the excellent 'wego' system of combat developed by Big Time. 
  
  -New features like sand and dust trails which obscure LOS
  
  -Huge maps that effectively portray 
 the historical accuracy of artillery and high-velocity guns.
  
  -Meticulously researched OOBs and vehicle models.
  
  Weaknesses:
  -Some may not be as interested 
 int he North Africa & Italy scenarios from WW2... as opposed to Northwestern Europe or Russia.
 
  
  -The open desert may not always be an enjoyable scenario for the CM engine. Extensive LOS may present 
 some game balancing issues.
  
  Bottom Line:
  If you have any interest in historically accurate, turn-based, tactical WW2 combat simulations, 
 then this is a MUST HAVE!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SSS383
Rating: 9.2
Date: Mar 8, 2005 2:42 am PT
Review:  If you have any love for WWII action and wargaming this game is for you. If you are expecting awesome 
 graphics and flashy animations please go buy one of the boiled down WWII wargames. This game makes 
 up for its lackluster graphics by including a bewildering array of accurately depicted WWII units, 
 unit AI and some awesome armor penetration algorithms. Don't get me wrong the game does look pretty 
 good, its just not the top notch stuff we are use to these days.
  When playing this game you take on the role of the commander of as much as a few battalions with 
 hundreds of troops or down to a single guy in WWII theatres mostly concentrated around the African 
 and Italian campaings, however, with the mission designer you can create scenarios that are suppose 
 to be in other areas. The way the battles take place is a really cool feature of the game. You 
 plan out what you will do before you start your turn then you start your turn. This turn lasts 
 60 seconds and during this time you sit back and watch your plans go into action. Its pretty neat 
 watching your well laid plans go great or watch everything go incredibly wrong then reacting to 
 it next turn. These battles can actually become very tense and many unexpected variables will come 
 into play. I mostly use the great mission designer to create my own scenarios, but there are a 
 load of great scenarios that ship with the game.
  The sound in this game is pretty good, the only music is a short spiel at the begining of the game 
 when you start it so it isn't a big variable here, however the sound in-game is pretty good. From 
 the sounds of machine guns to people screaming and tanks rolling around they are all believable 
 and add to the games atmosphere alot. The ambient battle and weather noises are great to and they 
 change with the weather also. Sound also plays a role in unit detection, the ability to detect 
 a unit by the sound it makes will change with weather conditions. An example of this is if its 
 raining or really windy its just harder to hear some guys running through the woods or a distant 
 gunshot.
  Overall this game is a well made recreation of WWII small unit actions and is the most enjoyable, 
 serious WWII wargame I have ever played.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lovegreen
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 3, 2004 11:08 am PT
Review:  The Combat Mission series is a must for any fan of realistic wargaming. With the last installment 
 in the serie it gets even better. By todays (2004) standards the graphics are dated, by the core 
 gameplay has never been surpassed. 
  
  The CM series utilise a so-called "WE-GO" approach to turn based strategy, meaning that each player 
 programs his moves, and the result is the calculated by the game. You can then view the result 
 "movie", which runs for one minute, without being able to interfere in the action. After this minute 
 you can give new orders to your troops. This can be quite nerve wrecing, to see your troops trying 
 to carry out your ordes, but being stopped in thier progress by your enemy, in all sorts of ways. 
 Morale, leadership and experience of the troops play heavily into the equation, and without proper 
 tactics and knowledge of the equipment/tanks etc. you will not stand much of a chance.
  
  A huge number of WWII fighting vehicles, tanks etc. are described in great detail, such as armor 
 thickness on each side, the curvature of the armor, turret speed, ground presure (dont get bogged 
 with heavy vehicles!) , armament, penetration values with different projectiles at different angles 
 and distances. An equal amount of detail has gone into the troops.
  
  I can not recommend this game enough to any WWII strategy gamer.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: staticelf
Rating: 9.2
Date: Sep 3, 2004 7:53 am PT
Review:  I have played Combat Mission since i first discovered it as Combat Mission: beyond overlord... 
 I have always apprecieated the hard work and refinements than come along with each new installment... This 
 game is always playable in that you can never run out of new battles to try... I'll watch a good 
 war movie then set it up on Combat Mission to play it out myself! Graphics are very good and you 
 wont find more vehicle paint schemes or variants... and these can easily be modded (By the way i 
 would really love to see a WH40k mod come out for this) the sound is good considering there is 
 no music but effects are clean and can also be modded. If you are a WWII enthusiast just being 
 able to see the forces in action is awsome.. the only improvement i would like to see would be a 
 total playback feature so that at the end of a battle one could watch the whole battle play through 
 and save these battles to be viewed again later.
  Difficulty can be changed but i would suggest playing with friends as the computer becomes predictable 
 after a few hundred games. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
