-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Combat Mission: Barbarossa to Berlin
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/strategy/combatmissionbtb/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Oct 29, 2002
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 9.1
Critic Score: 8.7, 19 Review (s)
User Score: 8.5, 234 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Battlefront. com
Developer: Big Time Software
Genre: Real-Time Wargame
Date:     Oct 29, 2002
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Barbarossa to Berlin raises the wargaming bar even higher with its pitch-perfect, ultra-polished 
 improvements to an already great game. 

 Big Time Software's Combat Mission: Barbarossa to Berlin is an entirely new type of wargame that 
 successfully combines many seemingly incompatible elements. It combines traditional wargame mechanics 
 with 3D graphics, real-time action with turn-based planning, strategy with excitement, and minute 
 details with an accessible interface. Barbarossa to Berlin is the follow-up to the first title 
 in the series, Beyond Overlord. If ever there were a showstopper of a wargame, this is it. Barbarossa 
 to Berlin raises the wargaming bar even higher with its pitch-perfect, ultra-polished improvements 
 to an already great game.           The tank models are much more detailed than in the previous 
 game.    

  The most immediate change that Barbarossa to Berlin makes to the original game is in the scenery. 
 The graphics are much improved since the first game's quaint in-house-artist look, which was more 
 concerned with fidelity than flair. They were the kind of graphics only a crotchety old wargame 
 veteran could love. But this time around, the foliage is more complex, the textures are sharper, 
 the special effects like fire and smoke don't look so homegrown, and the vehicle models feature 
 more detail and animation. You'll spend more time getting in close to study the replays just because 
 they look so good. With the possible exception of its stiff little infantry models, Combat Mission 
 now looks like a big-budget game. The audio is as rich and full as ever, with careful attention 
 paid to the sounds used for different weapons and the nationality of the men yelling at each other. 
 You may not be able to tell a Finnish call for a medic from a Romanian one, but you'll hear them 
 both here.           New rules make city campaigns like this much easier to deal with.    

  The scenery has also changed with the new location. Barbarossa to Berlin moves the action from 
 World War II's western front to the huge swath of territory on the eastern front. There are four 
 distinct zones, each with unique terrain, weather conditions, nationalities, and equipment, ranging 
 from Finland all the way south to the Crimean peninsula. While the first Combat Mission seemed 
 almost pastoral with its villages and hedgerows, this time the maps include denser urban locations. 
 Although buildings are still fairly abstract (they're essentially a terrain type laid out in blocks) , 
 city fighting is more vivid, with new rules for damage to structures and sneaking through sewers. 
   

  More detailed infantry commands make house-to-house fighting less dependent on the AI by giving 
 you more control over your men. For instance, a new command to advance under fire and use cover 
 along the way is invaluable in the city maps. It's also easier to specify that an infantry unit 
 should get in close to a tank to assault it (in the first game, they tended to think you were telling 
 them to fire at a tank with their rifles, the World War II equivalent of shooting spitballs at 
 a charging rhino) . With new rules for infantry fitness and fatigue, Combat Mission can now model 
 the difference between fresh inexperienced recruits and burned-out, war-weary veterans.     
 

 There are other new commands available for all types of units. You can set cover arcs to restrict 
 where a unit will attack, making it much easier to set up the kind of close-quarters ambushes that 
 made city fighting so deadly. The command "advance to contact" lets you specifically order a unit 
 to stop as soon as it sees an enemy. This command makes early planning much more effective than 
 simply hoping that the AI will act the way you want it to when the shooting starts.           An 
 example of the harsh weather on the eastern front.    

  The eastern front's steppes were the site of some of the war's most dramatic tank battles. Barbarossa 
 to Berlin has some larger, more wide-open maps that really show off the armor combat model. New 
 rules for gunnery optics, which were an important factor that wasn't figured into the first Combat 
 Mission, give the Germans an edge, particularly in low-light situations and cold weather. You can 
 now order tanks to "shoot and scoot" (move forward to take a shot and then retreat into cover) 
 or go "hull down" (take up a defensive position behind a hill that leaves their turrets peeking 
 over the hilltop) . Most importantly, the AI for armor combat has been cleaned up a lot since the 
 last game. Tanks don't have the targeting problems they had in the first game, where they'd develop 
 an inordinate fixation on relatively harmless targets. As in Atomic's Close Combat series, tanks 
 could be a little unreliable in Combat Mission: Beyond Overlord. Barbarossa to Berlin tidies this 
 up nicely and allows for some epic heavy metal clashes without the headaches of the first game. 
           Barbarossa to Berlin features improved special effects.    

  Barbarossa to Berlin also has some new interface elements that make playing the game much smoother. 
 You can tell at a glance what weapons a unit is carrying. A color-coded box gives you quick details 
 about the effectiveness of a unit's armor coverage. On the whole, Barbarossa to Berlin requires 
 much less peeking into information screens to play. However, Big Time Software still doesn't support 
 a mouse wheel, and there's no sensitivity setting for scrolling the map, which is a laborious process 
 that takes longer than it should. And although the manual is as detailed and comprehensive as ever, 
 the developer has mysteriously placed the table of contents at the back and called it an index. 
   

  Now that World War II is such a popular setting in first-person shooters, Combat Mission is a perfect 
 venue for action-oriented gamers to have a more in-depth but no less exciting look at the subject 
 matter. While it might not have the kind of glamorous, Hollywood-style appeal of Battlefield 1942, 
 it's a refreshing alternative to the two previous approaches to wargaming: burying it under numbers 
 and hexes or dumbing it down with Panzer General-style levels of abstraction and simplicity. Combat 
 Mission navigates beautifully between these two extremes. Furthermore, as is the case with any 
 good follow-up, it would be hard to go back to playing the original Combat Mission after getting 
 a taste of all the innovations and improvements in Barbarossa to Berlin, which takes a great game 
 and makes it even greater.    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (8 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: hsedai
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 23, 2008 9:35 am PT
Review:  Where the original Combat Mission game offered gameplay in a language many of us could understand, 
 CMBB has taught us the meaning of realism in a game. 
  
  CMBB is difficult from the beginning on and I found myself having to actually slow down and think 
 of real life strategies to win scenarios. The same map making and scenario making mechanics are 
 still in the game but now with many more buildings and terrain offerings. 
  
  I confess to not being conversant in Russian but I felt for them as the Germans in the game harrassed 
 me. The Quick Battles are very fun and challenging. They can be adjusted for force strength and 
 quality as you see fit. 
  
  The graphics were definitely improved in this game vs the original too. The weather effects were 
 too realistic and playing at night is always a challenge.
  
  I would certainly recommend playing the original first and then installing this game. Don't be 
 discouraged too soon by the difficulty, just read that manual and be patient. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Doctor_Mo
Rating: 9.2
Date: Aug 4, 2006 7:54 pm PT
Review:  First, let me start by saying that CMBB should appeal to a certain type of gamer. For instance, 
 if your gaming experience at any point in your life includes paper and pencil or strategic board 
 games, then you may qualify for having fun with this PC game. If you've ever stayed up half the 
 night strategizing on troop movements and flag positions, then you may qualify for having fun here. 
 If you truly know what a miniature is, and even better, if you've ever detailed one, then you may 
 definitely qualify for having fun here.
  
  Basically, what I'm trying to say is that CMBB is the type of PC game that wargamers enjoy. It 
 takes the realism of detailed combat strategy and condenses it into a turn-based PC replica - with 
 graphics, sound, and effects to boot. All the calcs and ratings are performed behind the scenes 
 - but don't get me wrong, this is no arcade run. Players still need to understand and pay very 
 careful attention to troop placement and movement, terrain, morale, fatigue, ammo, command, line 
 of sight, and so on! The only thing you really don't have to do is reference tables and roll dice.
 
  
  Just to give you an example of how fun this is, consider a scenario I played recently... I was 
 playing the German side, defending against an advance into a small town by a force with troop strength 
 of 160% my force. I dug in and placed anti-armor personnel in key positions. Upon their approach, 
 I was able to hold a line and then send in my armor division to frustrate their troops while staying 
 in position if the enemy armor approached down the road. Low and behold, the enemy armor burst 
 through some light brush - on my flank side!! Totally unexpected! The only thing that saved my 
 armor division from outright decimation was some positioning beyond a knoll that blocked their 
 line of sight. Having only one, maybe two moves to reposition, I had my armor fire as many smoke 
 rounds as possible, creating a screen whereby I could reverse, withdraw, and reposition. When the 
 smoke cleared, surprise, I was on their armor division's flank! A tank battle ensued and I came 
 out VICTORIOUS!
  
  This is just one of the many types of scenarios that are possible in this game - and that's just 
 in the single player battle mode. You also have single player operations as well as a strong community 
 by which to set up play over the Internet (TCP/IP) .
  
  Overall, this is a great combat simulation and it has great staying power. I pull it out anytime 
 I have a need for some serious strategic combat!
  
  Best and enjoy!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: markez83
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 6, 2006 1:29 pm PT
Review:  Ecco il terzo episodio della saga Combat Mission. Questo wargame tattico a turni simultanei tratta 
 i combattimenti sul fronte orientale nel periodo 1941-1945. Il suo aspetto pi apprezzabile  sicuramente 
 l'enorme (e accurata!) variet di mezzi e unit che si possono schierare e il realismo che esse 
 offrono sul campo di battaglia: i vetri delle molotov che si rompono, gli equipaggi che fuggono 
 dai loro mezzi danneggiati etc...
  Oltre ai due eserciti principali, Germania e Unione Sovietica, ci si pu schierare anche con altri 
 eserciti, quali Finlandia, Italia, Romania, Polonia, Ungheria e i partigiani. Non c stata una 
 vera rivoluzione grafica rispetto gli altri Combat Mission, ma la variet di terreni  grande, 
 e i suoni sono molto pi curati... direi persino che l'audio e il dettaglio, in generale,  uno 
 dei punti forti di questo gioco: dal rumore del colpo si pu distinguere la minaccia che si ha 
 di fronte, sono convincenti i colpi che rimbalzano sui mezzi, per non parlare delle frasi, in lingua 
 del rispettivo esercito, che si scambiano le truppe. 
  
  Per chi ha gi giocato con gli episodi precedendi della saga Combat Mission (Afrika korps e Beyond 
 Overlord) annuncio che il sistema di gioco  il medesimo delle precedenti versioni: a inizio partita 
 si dislocano le proprie unit nel terreno assegnato, si prosegue assegnando gli ordini alle proprie 
 unit (vari e completi) e si osserva il replay, gustandosi lo svolgimento della battaglia (ogni 
 turno  di 60 secondi) . Come gli altri un wargame BELLISSIMO e da consigliare....
  Le uniche pecche di questo gioco sono un po' la lentezza (immaginatevi una mappa che copre 9 chilometri 
 quadrati, e voi che dovete dare ordini a ogni unit) e la mancanza di qualche unit che magari 
 ci si sarebbe aspettato di vedere, come i cosacchi, i ciclisti o i carri multitorretta russi come 
 i T35.... (forse non servivano 6 o 7 versioni del panzer III ) .
  
  il giudizio comunque resta OTTIMO. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lubu7
Rating: 9.3
Date: Mar 5, 2006 1:47 pm PT
Review:  When I first played the demo of CMBB, i was a fan of the game. Soon, i ran to my local game store 
 and bought this and the orgianal CM.
  
  The game play is very simple to understand, but imposible to master. Basically u take the command 
 of a battalion commander and try to move your army towards a goal. Be it to capture flags or push 
 your enemy off the map. You get a selection of authentic WW2 units and their attributes.
  
  Another intersting aspect is that the game is broken down into an plan phase and a 1min simulation 
 of your orders. The orders you give during the planning phase are carried out by the comp in the 
 action phase. What you tell your units, is what you see unfold before you. 
  
  Not to mention it just looks cool, it also adds an infinte playabilty factor. Since of the CMBB 
 physics engine, you cna replay the excat map 50000000000000 times and still have something new 
 and intersting happen.
  
  Physics Engine - Once you start playing, you quickly realize that this is no ordinary game. CMBB's 
 engine actully manipulates each and every shot that a unit takes. It calculates the angle of the 
 shot, the cover, wind resistance, visibilty, etc. This aspect brings the game to real life. For 
 every shot is not a kill shot, and one must be very carefull in using their units.
  
  Graphics - for its time, the graphics are amazing. Each tank shot forces the barrel back. The infantry 
 units are detailed so close to the original that every deatail can be seen on them. from ammo to 
 badges and medals, the unit graphics are amazing.
  
  Sound - very decent. the guns sound real and so do the explosions. The nice feature is the many 
 voices that the units say to one another. For each of the sides, there is a list of some 300+ voice 
 actions.
  
  Overall, amazing. If you love WW2, then you must have this game. And don't forget its predecessor, 
 Combat Missions Beyond Overlord, or the New Afrika addition in the series. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stustatic
Rating: 7.8
Date: Dec 23, 2005 7:35 am PT
Review:  After playing the first game, I hoped the graphics and the gameplay would be bettered. Graphics 
 are still 2D looking, even though it's a 3D game. They're so flat, but playable.
  
  Secondly, the gameplay is the best you'll get. At times it can be a little slow, frustrating and 
 some turns will only be movement, but if your a die hard WW2 gamer, then you'll enjoy it no matter 
 what.
  
  Sometimes scenarios can drag on. These 40 turn games can get boring pretty quickly, causing you 
 to quit half way, or save and never load up again.
  
  A good buy, if you enjoyed the first. If you haven't played the first game, then buy this one. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gen_Rommel
Rating: 9.4
Date: Dec 17, 2003 7:47 pm PT
Review:  This game is great awsome if you dont like this game your not a true stradegy lover or wwii lover 
 this game is great its base turn gameplay makes its easy to control your troops in the heat of 
 battle you actually get a chance to control them instead of trying to click on them telling them 
 to move and by that time dead. This game has only a few flaws of course as a big time game it keeps 
 its building text and things like that a copy there are like 5 diffrent faces on a building but 
 its not really that bothering you tend to forget about it when your playing so. Some things are 
 sadly 2-D not all things are 3-D like bushes and graves etc small things they make them 2-D all 
 around so it has the same look wherever you turn. I played combat mission one and if you complain 
 about barbossa to berlin you would have thought the last one sucked but before this one that game 
 was the most realistic 3-D combat you could get! This game is great and highly recommoneded for 
 buying I bought it and I never regret spending the money I did on this game its a awsome game soldiers 
 look real uniforms are unique for whatever type you pick from guards, navy, SS, SS mechanized, calvary, 
 ski loads of choices and its just awsome. weapons are accurate to the year you pick to fight in 
 its just so accurate and fun you would have to be in a great social depression to not like either 
 that or you just play too many sport games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Droot123
Rating: 4.1
Date: Dec 5, 2003 10:56 am PT
Review:  After reading the stunning review by the Gamespot reviewer I decided to purchase this game. I have 
 played many "turn based" war games and was a little worried because the one I have played in the 
 past become very boring telling each unit what to do everytime. I decided I would shell out the 
 $40 bucks and give it a go. Wow, I should have just burned two twenties in my drive way and went 
 to bed. First, the game started out looking good, the graphics were sharp and I had my objective 
 in hand. I started to instruct my tanks and other men what to do and quickly became very bored. 
 After about 10 minutes I decided enough and hit the end turn button to watch my army move into 
 action. An abbreviated 60 seconds later I watched as my tanks moved about a millimeter each only 
 to learn that they were "bogged down on the grass. You have to be kidding me! There was no indication 
 that the ground could not support a tank. Second, I told my men to advance and found it to be very 
 difficult to get a group or platoon of men to advance together. This may be an oversite on my part 
 since I had not played for very long, but it was frustrating. I found this game to be mind numbing 
 and will never play it again. Save your $40 bucks and buy Blietzkreig. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KhanIndustries
Rating: 9.8
Date: Oct 21, 2003 1:25 pm PT
Review:  Simply the very best combat strategy game I have ever played in my entire life. 
  
  The Combat Mission games are WWII tactical combat strategy games that combine the best of turn-based 
 and real-time elements. It offers a nice selection of scenarios but I think the random battle generator 
 is the shining point.
  
  The random battle generator allows each side to spend a number of points to build and customize 
 the army they want. You then deploy your units and issue orders to each. When done, the turn begins 
 and you watch the battle unfold until the next turn where you repeat. This game offers limitless 
 strategies and endless gameplay as each battle is completely diffrent. The damage and weapon penetration 
 engine is simply fantastic.
  
  The only down sides were that I would have like to have seen all the units from the first Combat 
 Mission included and the AI is slightly lacking but not that bad. Also the infantry models are 
 amature looking (where as the other equipment such as tanks are remarkable) .
  
  In any case, one of the best games I have ever played. If you like combat strategy games, then 
 definately buy this game. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
