-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Combat Mission: Shock Force
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/strategy/combatmissionshockforce/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Contemporary Middle East replaces the seen-it-all WWII battles of past games.
 Great potential.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Clumsy user interface.
 Missions feel scripted due to gimmicks like unconventional forces.
 AI is either broken or overly reliant on triggers.
 Ugly visuals.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Aug 10, 2007
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 4.5
Critic Score: 6.7, 13 Review (s)
User Score: 5.6, 122 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Paradox Interactive
Developer: Big Time Software
Genre: Wargame
Date:     Aug 22, 2007 &raquo;  
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Combat Mission says good-bye to WWII, but hello to an inept interface, broken AI, and hideous visuals. 
 

  Back when the Combat Mission series began in 2000, it was a revelation. The Battlefront wargame 
 set during World War II was authentic and unflinching enough to earn the grognard's seal of approval, 
 yet also so downright approachable that it didn't scare off newbies looking for something a little 
 more realistic than the run-of-the-mill RTS. Sequels have only built on this greatness, too, which 
 means that expectations rise awfully high whenever a new addition to the family comes along.  

 
  So it's hard not to feel let down by Combat Mission: Shock Force. This is more of a members-only 
 wargame, with an unforgiving interface and so many intricacies that even those familiar with the 
 earlier games in the series will find themselves lost over and over again during the first few 
 hours of play. Even worse, there isn't much here to reward diehards who struggle through the grueling 
 early going. Artificial intelligence is largely missing in action, scenarios feel gimmicky and 
 prearranged, and just about everything seems rough and unfinished. Battlefront has already shown 
 its willingness to improve the game, having released a version 1.01 patch on the day of the game's 
 online launch that addresses some issues, but a tremendous amount of work remains.  

  At least Battlefront started with a good idea. Instead of going back for yet another visit to Adolf 
 and Uncle Joe, CM: Shock Force moves the setting to a near-future battleground in the Middle East. 
 Instead of creeping through French hedgerows or rolling Panzers over farm fields, the campaign, 
 one-off battles, and multiplayer engagements are based on the notion of the US invading Syria in 
 2009 to topple its leaders. The background story and war depicted here is really a straight copy 
 of what happened with 9/11 and Afghanistan, although you've still got to give Battlefront points 
 for trying.  

           Zeroing in on yet another stationary Syrian enemy.      

  Not that the story and setting really matter much in the end. It's tough to get deep enough into 
 the game to appreciate what's going on in the Syrian sands, particularly if you've never played 
 the previous Combat Missions. Battlefront has added a training campaign to the game with the 1.01 
 patch (the launch game had no tutorial whatsoever, so you had to rely on fumbling your way through 
 small-scale missions like Al Huqf Engagement to figure out what was going on) , although it isn't 
 nearly comprehensive enough to address the many ins and outs of modern combat presented here. The 
 manual doesn't help a great deal, either. While lots of information is stuffed into its 200-plus 
 pages, this PDF tome is laid out like reference material geared solely to answer specific questions. 
 And this is one game that needs a manual to take you by the hand. The interface is jammed with 
 text that's about the same size as the fine print on auto-rental contracts, along with numerous 
 tiny buttons bereft of context or tool tips. Hotkeys are supported, but you can't change them without 
 editing a text file in Windows, and they annoyingly change function depending on what you're doing 
 at the time you hit them. When you move, for example, the "I" key is "Quick," but when you're in 
 combat "I" stands for "Target Light." Good idea, guys. Everything is so clunky and archaic, it's 
 amazing that Battlefront doesn't include a code wheel for look-up copy protection.  

  Gameplay itself doesn't feel quite right, either. Battlefront has attempted to revamp the combat 
 engine with the option to play in real time, in addition to the familiar turn-based WeGo system 
 from the earlier games in the series. This new feature is very hard to appreciate, however, due 
 to some big glitches. Pathfinding is absolutely awful, albeit improved in the 1.01 patch from the 
 horror show on display in the original build. Soldiers still run into one another constantly and 
 take the long way around buildings. Vehicles slam into each other and swivel in place. Even something 
 really simple, like ordering a bunch of Stryker combat vehicles to move straight ahead, results 
 in a panicky fire drill when they're in close quarters, with the trucks driving every which way 
 but the one you selected. Similar problems are apparent when playing with WeGo, although it's easier 
 to adjust to them by using lots of waypoints.  

  Enemy AI is just as hit-and-miss as the pathfinding. Again, it's better with the 1.01 patch than 
 it was in the original release (sensing a trend here?) , but foes still often hold their positions 
 and fire back only after you've initiated an attack. Even in missions where you're supposed to 
 be competing for an objective, AI troops will sometimes mindlessly hang back and wait for you to 
 move in and slaughter them. It's almost as if units have little, if any, functioning AI and are 
 responding solely to battlefield triggers.  

           A column of Strykers looks pretty menacing when standing still, but a Keystone Kops routine 
 kicks up as soon as the vehicles start to move.      

  And this isn't the only reason that CM: Shock Force combat lacks authenticity. Although the battles 
 here are all about modern asymmetrical warfare such as that currently being waged in Iraq between 
 the US and ragtag local insurgents, the game is still very much a creature of the Second World 
 War. All Battlefront has really done is shoehorn its old approach into very different theater of 
 war where the sides are wildly lopsided, not fairly even like it was in many WW II engagements. 
 Syria's military isn't anywhere near that of a superpower right now, so there's a real credibility 
 gap in having them match up so evenly with US forces.  

  Also, the gimmick of unconventional forces is used to balance the two sides on occasion. Basically 
 this means that thugs in civvies pop out from the civilian population every now and again to say 
 hello with rocket launchers. This is a great idea that seems pulled from the daily headlines coming 
 out of Iraq. But it's executed terribly, as civilian populations aren't depicted in the game. Unconventional 
 enemies are invisible to the Yanks until they either flat-out attack or come so close to units 
 that they apparently become suspicious enough to warrant a closer look. Of course, all you actually 
 see are goons materializing out of nowhere with IEDs at the ready, which makes the whole concept 
 seem like an AI cheat.  

  Criticisms can also be leveled at the graphics and sound. While nobody expects boutique wargames 
 to be gorgeous, CM: Shock Force is downright hideous. Battle landscapes are grainy and seem to 
 float on top of a backdrop. Every map is dominated by desert terrain, even though the real Syria 
 is actually quite geographically diverse. Weird artifacts clutter up the landscape and flashes 
 regularly make parts of the terrain twinkle and vanish like some Arabian Brigadoon. Yet even though 
 the game was thoroughly clubbed with the ugly stick, it remains a system hog. Technical problems 
 constantly interfere with gameplay, especially in the real-time mode. Constant hitches when zooming 
 in and out and odd delays when rotating the camera angle mean that you regularly have to pause 
 to give orders. Audio seems almost random. Syrians speak in a repetitive, muddled Arabic that sounds 
 like they're saying "Yella!" ("Come on!") over and over again. Granted, you do hear this a lot 
 in the Middle East as the word is casually used like "Hey!" is in the US, but here it's said so 
 much that it sounds like the speakers are stuttering. Weapon effects are better, at least, as are 
 the comments from US troops, which seem pretty well-suited to specific combat situations.  

  What more can be said? CM: Shock Force is a tremendous disappointment. There is still a great 
 deal of promise here, Battlefront has already started whipping the game into shape through what 
 will no doubt be a long succession of patches, and the diehard fan base will undoubtedly use the 
 included editor to make some impressive battles. Even so, no game should be released in such a 
 rough, incomplete state.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (5 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Meat_Bag
Rating: 5.5
Date: Feb 12, 2009 7:55 am PT
Review:  I don't know about the American or Western European audience, but in my country, back in the 90's, 
 Combat Mission series was never really appreciated. Sure, there were always strategy game freaks 
 that appreciated it's hideous graphics, slow-as-snail gameplay and TDR syndrome. TDR meaning "too 
 damn realistic", of course... I mean, I know that in the real world battles are chaotic, sometimes 
 extremely slow and all that, but this is a game for God's sake! Speed it up a little bit, will 
 ya?! And give me some control over my units!
  
  That's mostly why I never ever read a review that praised Combat Mission series. 
  
  But still, 
 it managed to make a name of itself. Well done, boys! And now we finally have a game that tries 
 to break the series' budget-price-title tradition and become a blockbuster. Did it have any luck? 
 Well, keep on reading, my friends...
  
  As all the previous Combat Mission titles were set during the WW2, it was painfully obvious that 
 it became dull. Gamers were really getting tired of liberating Stalingrad for the 100th time or 
 rolling Panzer tanks through hedgerow hell in Normandy over and over again. Heck, for a while, 
 it seemed that the only decent games released in Europe and America were WW2 strategies. So our 
 dearly beloved programmers of Paradox Interactive decided that enough is enough, and did what everyone 
 else is doing these days - made a strategy game based on modern warfare. Speaking of which, did 
 you notice how there are practically NO decent games based on modern warfare AT ALL?! People like 
 this whole modern warfare concept, they really do, and will gladly give money for it, but for some 
 reason there just don't seem to be any single game that's worth our hard earned money. Sad...
 
  
  Anyway, as I was saying, this new Combat Mission game is based on modern warfare. Abrams tanks, 
 air strikes, Marines, etc., etc. Well, this time the good and honorable US Army is off to Syria. 
 Why? Evil terrorists, bombs, stuff like that. I read it in the manual, by the way, since there 
 are no intro movies, or any movies at all, to fill you in on the details. It's like playing some 
 beta version of release-date-to-be-announced project. For a full-priced game, that's just disrespectful. 
 Moving on to the game options... oh, wait, there are none! Adjust a few details' level, turn the 
 sound on and off, and that's about it. I mean, what the heck?! Is this a demo?! No, I paid too 
 much for it to be a demo. Ah well... moving on. No tutorial either... so, I guess I'll just go 
 with the campaign. I'll figure it all out as I go (Poor, naive little me!) . Starting on with the 
 first mission, I can't wait to send my M1 Abrams tanks to do some serious butt-kicking. But the 
 first thing I notice is the absolutely abysmal and horrific camera. That's right, the first and 
 the most important thing in any 3D strategy game - camera control - is busted to hell. Slow, unresponsive 
 and confusing, it nearly made me send this game to trash can. OK, the game looks nice, considering 
 the fact that my computer is not nearly powerful enough to let me even start up, let alone play 
 modern games such as Gears of War. But it's so damn slooooooow! 
  
  At first I tougt it was because my hardware is a stone age class, but no, everyone experienced 
 those same problems. The game's engine, altou ambitious, is simply not capable of keeping up with 
 all that's going on in the game. Even with my hardware far exceeding recommended system requirements, 
 I simply couldn't run this game smoothly with full details. But even pumped up to the fullest, 
 the game doesn't look nearly as good as it should be if it wants to score a blockbuster status. 
 
  
  OK, moving on with nearly-maximum settings, I tried to figure out how to order my units around. 
 If you ever played a turn-based game before, you'll figure out the basic concept pretty soon. But 
 mastering some more advanced commands, such as calling air strikes, artillery or reinforcements 
 are still unknown to me. Heck, this is a game! Just let me click on an air strike icon and choose 
 a location to blow up so I can sit back and enjoy the show! So, I order my units to move, one by 
 one, which they do so damn SLOW, and with such a horrible pathfinding issues, even in the flat-out, 
 wide open terrain. A Bradley infantry carrier who can't figure out how to move around a bush?! 
 Just drive over a damn thing! So, off to attack you go! No problem, just send your tanks forward 
 and hope for the best. They destroy dug-in enemy tanks with ease (a little bit of propaganda, eh?) 
 but for some reason can't do a thing against entrenched infantry. I mean, that's the whole reason 
 why tanks were invented in the first place! Come on!
  
  As for the enemy AI, there is simply none. They just stand around in their trenches and bunkers, 
 waiting for you to butcher them. They don't even move! Oh, and let's not forget the thing that 
 literally sends this product crashing down. There is no way you can know just what the heck you 
 are facing, so there is no need to adjust your strategy depending on a situation, just send your 
 strongest tanks ahead and hope it turns out OK. Yes, recon units are pretty much useless. You don't 
 even know what's going on as they move, since there is no way in hell the game will let you know 
 just who's firing at your units, and how much damage they're actually taking. Once your tank gets 
 immobilized or destroyed, you can only guess how that happened. 
  
  Wanna try this game? I really don't know what to tell you, I'm currently downloading a 1.10 patch 
 for this game so maybe that will fix things up a bit (The patch alone has about 250 MB. Enough 
 said about the bugs and rough edges in this game?) . The game certainly has potential, and looks 
 and feels kind of cool. Especially with the camera shaking as your tanks drive near it. That's 
 kind of sweet. But a few cool features are not enough to make the game itself cool. 
  
  Borrow it, try it for a few minutes, then return it to whoever you borrowed it from and punch him/her 
 in the face for wasting your valuable time with yet another budget-priced piece of junk. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: -Chernuska-
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 8, 2009 3:59 am PT
Review:  Well this game has a low rating, but this games is growing to become alot better. After the 1.11 
 patch there is alot done to make this game alot better.
  AI path finding is improved, still i had some problems with disembarking. Also the game is running 
 great after the patch (no stuttering anymore on my pc) . When you have this game already but didnt 
 try it for the last half year you should try again. God thanks this game is made by Battlecom. 
 Its one of the few companies that realy care about costumers. Still there are some problems like 
 the javelins etc but i can live with that (not 1 game in the world has no bugs) . Still the camera 
 controls are hard. But i realy have alot of fun now with this game. To bad this game is set in 
 Modern combat and has a fictional war in Syria. I prefer WW2 combat. Also with the modules this 
 game becomes better. The manual is not that good, you need to print it out. But these day, s all 
 these games comes out with a pdf file manual. I, m missing the old day, s when games had great manuals 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Michael_Dorosh
Rating: 4.5
Date: Sep 30, 2008 8:56 am PT
Review:  Presuming that you want a playable, entertaining, perhaps even thought-provoking squad-based, company 
 level tactical 3D wargame, you'll be disappointed.
  
  CM: SF at its most basic level seems like its predecessors - an open ended game with a map editor, 
 scenarios, a linked-scenarios game option, and a random scenario generator. Play is still turn-based, 
 with 1 minute "movies" interspersed with orders phases in which both sides give orders. Play is 
 resolved simultaneously. Even board game designers knew that "Si-Move" was more realistic than 
 IGO-UGO back in the '70s. Additionally, those ZomBATs from CM: BO have been replaced with stunning 
 3D models and the wheels even turn on the tanks, men reload magazines, they even give first aid 
 to injured soldiers. And if, you want to play in real time there is that option too - and you can 
 split the difference with a pause option. They fixed the "borg spotting" and now each unit traces 
 LOS independently of others.
  
  What could possibly be wrong? It's the same old CM, just better and with more features, right?
 
  
  Unfortunately, no. Aside from the most obvious change - a distasteful modern day fictional war 
 in Syria - many of the old CM features have been gutted. First of all, the game is so data-heavy, 
 with individual tracking of ammunition and small arms fire, that PBEM files are bloated. There 
 is also no way to play turn-based over the internet. It's real time only. If you were a fan of 
 the Quick Battles - there are no random maps. The data was too much to be able to do them "on the 
 fly". There are no more point purchase systems for the QBs, either.
  
  In game, there are a lot of handy features that didn't make the transition - LOS tools or ambush 
 or shoot-n-scoot or seek hull down. Some have work arounds (the target command works as an LOS 
 - unless you have an unarmed unit) , but some don't.
  
  The main objection is that the biggest complaint about the old CM - the 3-man representations on 
 the map of entire infantry squads - have been replaced with 1:1 representation. But the individuals 
 on the map don't act like individuals. Just about everything is abstracted; there are no interior 
 walls in buildings - but there are exterior windows and doors (you can tell because the men won't 
 jump through the windows, and the pathfinding is so poor that men will run circles around entire 
 buildings trying to find a way in even if it means exposing themselves to fire) . LOS is supposedly 
 drawn to each man individually, but an underlying 8x8m grid of "Action Spots" also controls such 
 things as movement - though there are no visual clues on the map as to what is determined by the 
 action spots, or where they are, exactly. You still control squads as if they were squads - not 
 individuals - which means if you want to replenish your squad's ammo from its APC (another welcome 
 new feature) - you send the entire squad running off the firing line to do it where in real life 
 you'd just send one man back. There is a serious "scale-mismatch" as one veteran wargamer described 
 it at the official forums. The developers lost sight of what made the original game fun and tried 
 to broaden their retail base to include real time customers while abandoning commitment to crucial 
 philosophies of game design.
  
  Worst, perhaps, the AI has largely been removed. Granted, it was silly to watch platoon HQs and 
 mortars leading counterattacks in the first CM games, but the AI in CM: SF is entirely scripted. 
 The scenario designer now sets the agenda by having the enemy react to the clock, not the tactical 
 situation. There is still a TacAI, but the developers are still working out the bugs, and it mostly 
 determines defensive actions. The AI won't counter-attack you if you take a victory location - 
 unless the script calls for it. There are multiple scripts available for each scenario, but the 
 AI still won't act dynamically to what you are doing except by sheer coincidence.
  
  The "campaign" released with the game replaces the popular Operations model of the earlier CM games. 
 You will never be able to fight over the same terrain as in the early games. Instead, you have 
 a simplistic branch system of linked scenarios with which you have no control to make decisions 
 on which units you will employ - you're there for the ride.
  
  If you're mostly interested in pretty graphics, CM: SF won't disappoint. The night-time effects 
 are good; daytime effects are ok - still some work to be done on shadows, and battlefront has said 
 they have no way to fix the fact that bunkers and trenches are impossible to hide. That's right 
 - you get a bunker or a trench and the terrain is deformed wherever you put it, and the enemy can 
 see that wherever you place it on the map (actually, the scenario designer will place the trench 
 for you - it's not your call, and you can't dig foxholes, either, nor are there roadblocks or barbed 
 wire) . Unhidden trenches and bunkers are not cool for head-to-head play. Between two friends, not 
 an issue, but perhaps its no small wonder there haven't been any tournament ladders springing up 
 with the same wild abandon they did for the first CM games. As nice as the vehicles look on the 
 move, other animations are silly - inappropriate weapons reload animations and really silly building 
 demolitions - pull you out of the environment pretty quickly.
  
  Overall, not a worthy follow up to original CM, as this really went off in too many different directions 
 and introduced far too many changes solely for the sake of change. The patches have spent a lot 
 of time reintroducing old features that should never have been removed, and BFC has promised to 
 reintroduce even more - including a "new" Quick Battle and point purchase system in the their World 
 War II title in late 2009 that may or may not be retrofitted to CMSF. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: CoolSurf99
Rating: 6
Date: Sep 14, 2008 3:55 pm PT
Review:  Once you have downloaded all the patches, the game
  can get fun at points. On the other hand, the learning curve is tough and the military terms can 
 be confusing at times. One of the most frustrating things about this game is the camera control 
 and task bar. The graphics are somewhat bland and the soldier models look blocky and old.
  I did like the overall realism and authenticity that was put into the game. I thought it went overboard 
 at times like requiring your infantry to have to go back to to a AFV or Bradley to get more ammunition. 
 I also thought there could be little more variations in the maps that they had.
  The game itself requires alot from your system and their were many points where the FPS would drop 
 dramatically.
  As already mentioned there alot of bugs that need to be addressed and Battlefront has already released 
 a slew of patches. Maybe in the future it will get better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AlexChec
Rating: 6.5
Date: Aug 27, 2007 6:30 pm PT
Review:  The Combat Mission series is a staple of tactical strategy games. The level to which the team at 
 Battlefront has researched the details of army organization, weapon capabilities, and incorporated 
 those elements into accessible gameplay has yet to be matched. Furthermore, the introduction of 
 WeGo play -- suspending time to allow players to issue orders and resolving combat with the opponent 
 simultaneously -- has revolutionized the way people approach combat.
  
  The Battlefront team came to realize a while ago what many gamers and game developers are -- WWII 
 is played out. There are only so many ways to approach Normandy and Stalingrad before it's just 
 not fun anymore. While Afrika Korps was a fresh look at an oft overlooked theater of the war, eventually 
 the war itself needed to be left behind. Enter Combat Mission: Shock Force.
  
  Modern warfare is not new to Battlefront -- see T-72: Balkans on Fire and TacOps4 -- but they decided 
 to depart from conventional warfare altogether and address the truly modern nature of warfare: 
 asymmetrical, where conventional armies meet ragtag resistance to devastating effect. Shock Force 
 is also the first game on the market to center exclusively on the U. S. Army's new Stryker multipurpose 
 armored vehicles.
  
  The story takes from modern events and pits the U. S. against Syria in the not-too-distant future. 
 Like the U. S.' wars in Iraq and Afghanistan, the established military apparatus easily folds to 
 the might of the United States, which then finds itself on the receiving end of stiff, unconventional 
 resistance. Indeed, the game borrows from today's headlines by having the U. S. enter Syria from 
 Iraq, and the quality of some of the Syrian unconventional units is improved by the fact that many 
 have fought U. S. soldiers in Iraq and/or Afghanistan.
  
  As far as gameplay goes, Battlefront does not abandon its signature WeGo system, but it does introduce 
 real-time gameplay for those more familiar with RTS'. Battlefront does do away with abstracted 
 squads, however, and has each soldier represented as an individual on the battlefield with unique 
 characteristics and abilities, elements it played with recently in Theatre of War. Even the terrain 
 has been improved to allow more ground texture diversity, finer changes in elevation, and more 
 complex buildings and fortifications than has been seen in prior releases. On top of that, the 
 ground deforms after being impacted with high explosives, trees are even stripped of their leaves, 
 allowing for an enhanced image of high-intensity fighting.
  
  Shock Force deals with asymmetrical warfare in a very unique fashion. Whereas other games have 
 essentially viewed unconventional units as similar to conventional units except for more relaxed 
 uniform standards and different weapon types -- e. g., Command and Conquer Generals, Act of War 
 -- and essentially played both forces similarly throughout the game, Shock Force treats unconventional 
 forces, well, unconventionally. They have a far less structured chain of command, they can blend 
 in to densely populated battlefields up until the point they engage the U. S. force, and they can 
 field IEDs and car bombs to devastating effect. I can think of no other game where you look at 
 a deserted vehicle on a battlefield and have to think, Static object, or deadly weapon? 
  
  I strongly believe that Shock Force is ahead of the curve in game development when it comes to 
 presenting a realistic picture of today's battlefields. It's too bad, then, that the game launched 
 with a myriad of problems which detract from the gameplay.
  
  The first major problem is pathfinding. It's atrocious, especially for a game that centers on mechanized 
 infantry and heavy armor -- you know, vehicles which you would imagine are operated by soldiers 
 who are semi-competent drivers. Vehicles will sometimes travel 90 degrees from where you've ordered 
 them to go, only to turn yet another 90 degrees at some arbitrary point in order to head to your 
 assigned point. Sometimes this is a harmless annoyance, sometimes they drive right into the line 
 of fire of an anti-armor unit and get explodinated. Dismounted soldiers, too, will sometimes find 
 the most indirect routes towards a movement node and get themselves into a world of trouble.
  
  Another severe problem is clipping and stacking, which ties into bad pathfinding. More often 
 than not, if you order a group of units -- usually vehicles -- to move, they will bunch together 
 into a single unit, which throws off their pathfinding, and cause them to dance around each other 
 until they become unstuck and move forward. In order to overcome this problem and the general pathfinding 
 issues, you're forced to move each unit individually, which becomes annoying when you're talking 
 about more than just a handful of units.
  
  The AI is, by and large, competent, but it is tied too much to waypoints and triggers. Obviously 
 the Battlefront team was trying to avoid the problems of earlier Combat Mission releases where 
 the AI would rush blindly at an objective in the same manner game after game, and for that effort 
 they should be commended, but what they have wound up with is a very sheepish AI that is reluctant 
 to do anything at all other than shoot. This does not just apply to the unconventionals, either 
 (who you might expect might be reluctant to charge a generally stronger U. S. force) , but even U. S. 
 forces are slow to react to enemy movements until they have completed their own movements.
  
  Graphically, the Combat Mission series has always been known for being basic, and relative 
 to the series Shock Force is a grand upgrade. However, soldiers and vehicles look too much like 
 clones of one another -- even though soldiers come with different face and skin types -- and after 
 Medieval II: Total War showed the gaming industry that clone armies can be a thing of the past, 
 this is inexcusable. The game is also deficient in the sound department, as soldiers have a very 
 limited, and too oft repeated, vocabulary, vehicle sounds are redundant, and there seems to bee 
 far too little variety in weapon sounds. One major omission I noticed was in terms of air support 
 -- sounds are completely missing: If you call in a close air support mission, you don't hear jets 
 or helicopters flying overhead, you merely get the ordinance that they fire. Once you notice this, 
 it can downplay the intensity of a battle significantly.
  
  The user interface, too, is hard to get a handle of. The most recent patch improved it somewhat, 
 but the keys remain less than intuitive. Add to that fact that the game itself has no small learning 
 curve (read: save frequently) , and you might find yourself very frustrated very quickly.
  
  Some bugs with the initial launch are actually quite indicative of the level of detail Battlefront 
 put into Shock Force. For example, the 1.02 patch corrected an error whereby shoulder-fired missiles 
 were failing too frequently because the smoke from their rocket exhaust was blinding their operators 
 too quickly. I can't think of a game where the rocket exhaust of a shoulder-fired missile was made 
 to effect, period. However, the game has lots of these kinds of small bugs that will require patch 
 upon patch to be corrected as they are discovered.
  
  In short, the game is great, but it launched prematurely, and that's not great. If you're willing 
 to forgive some of the errors I have listed, this game will fast become one of your favorites; 
 otherwise, it might be best to wait a couple of months for the slew of patches to be released in 
 order to give you a better gaming experience. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
