-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Combat
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/action/combat/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Jan  3, 2002
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 6.8
Critic Score: 5.2, 9 Review (s)
User Score: 6.6, 15 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Atari
Developer: Magic Lantern
Genre: Action
Date:     Nov 20, 2001
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Combat is a decent arcade-style shooter that should at least temporarily please newbies and anyone 
 with an itchy trigger finger. 

  If you think there's a shortage of gaming creativity these days, you need only look 25 years into 
 the past to realize how good you have it. Back in the early 1970s, Early Video Game Man came home 
 from battling dinosaurs only to find the most simplistic of home gaming systems and the most primitive 
 of games waiting to soothe his frayed nerves. One of the most popular of these early efforts was 
 Atari's Combat, a two-person tank-and-plane-based battle that appeared on the scene almost simultaneously 
 with other two-person tank-based games such as Tank and Armor Battle. Infogrames pays tribute to 
 the former with the unimaginatively titled Combat, a modernized 3D hovertank warfare game that 
 bears little resemblance to the original other than its name and fondness for bullet-spraying armored 
 vehicles. Though it does become repetitive and certainly won't set any new standards, Combat nevertheless 
 is a decent arcade-style shooter that should at least temporarily please newbies and anyone with 
 an itchy trigger finger.
 
 Combat takes place in a bizarre futuristic environment composed of a series of passageways and ramps 
 suspended in the upper atmosphere of some unnamed world. It is your job to maneuver yourself from 
 the predesignated entry point through to the exit point of each segment, a process that wouldn't 
 be quite so difficult if it weren't for the legion of ne'er-do-wells determined to prematurely 
 end your journey. You may feel lonely out there at the beginning of the game, but soon you're besieged 
 by a variety of enemies, including several forms of aircraft and land-based vehicles, a wide range 
 of fixed gun emplacements, and, in classic arcade fashion, one big boss beast at the culmination 
 of each full level. Illinois-based developer Magic Lantern has infused each of Combat's 20 unique 
 villains with distinctive characteristics and armaments to help you identify potential behavior 
 and methodology before they attack, yet throws so many of them at you that you'll rarely feel safe.
 
 
 It's not just the sheer quantity of opponents that'll bite you. In Combat, your adversaries are 
 relatively intelligent too. Though they have some difficulty seeing you from a distance and chase 
 you only within a given area, there's no question they'll take advantage of any weakness to surround 
 you and mercilessly pound your vehicle with guns, cannons, and often suicidal ship-to-ship collisions. 
 They also have this nasty habit of materializing and respawning from their randomly positioned 
 generators just when you feel you've been pushed to the limit. In fact, the game is designed in 
 such a way that you will often want to slow it down and play a little hide and seek rather than 
 enter a new sector forcefully and with guns blazing.
 
 Yet evil adversaries aren't the only problems you'll face in the Combat world. The unfortunate truth 
 of the matter is that your own ship handles like an ice cube on a frozen lake. Even though it is 
 a hovercraft and as such should float about a bit more than you want it to, it slips and slides 
 so much that merely traveling in a straight line proves to be a cumbersome task. These wayward 
 tendencies negatively impact even basic operations such as navigating toward one of the game's 
 16 different forms of power-ups, and that just doesn't seem fair. Making matters worse, many of 
 Combat's raised roadways and ramps have no walls or guardrails around their outer perimeter. As 
 a result, you'll often unintentionally shuffle off the edge and plummet into space, losing one 
 of your lives in the process.
 
 At least it looks spectacular when you do die. Although the game certainly won't be confused with 
 a state-of-the-art graphical showpiece, it does feature plenty of convincing explosions. When your 
 own ship or a key enemy vehicle blows up, it does so by breaking into several pieces and serenading 
 the screen with enough fire and brimstone to make you wish you had a replay facility to see it 
 all again. End-level bosses die with an even greater flourish -- belching thick black smoke and enduring 
 various flaming conniptions before finally succumbing in a blazing, crumbling inferno. Combat's 
 excellent sound effects, which effectively translate most onscreen and several off-screen events 
 and consistently convey an eerie sense of foreboding, reach their impressive pinnacle during such 
 instances.
 
 Otherwise, Combat looks like the budget title it is. The game doesn't sport a first-person cockpit 
 view or any other perspective beyond its two chase cameras. The ships are not particularly detailed 
 and do not exhibit damage until they meet their fiery end. The environments are generally similar 
 throughout, and the ordnance fired from your own cannon resembles the pretty little ember at the 
 top of a Fourth of July sparkler rather than the fearsome weapon it obviously is.
 
 The most damning aspect of the game undoubtedly is its save routine -- or rather lack thereof. In 
 Combat, your position is maintained only when you've advanced through a total of 10 missions to 
 the end of one of its three "chapters." Consequently, you'd better get accustomed to revisiting 
 previously conquered levels and sections over and over and over again if you ever want to reach 
 the conclusion. It doesn't help that your artificially intelligent opponents continually appear 
 in exactly the same location at exactly the same instance every time you play. Granted, they don't 
 always follow the same pattern of movements once they have appeared on the screen, but that doesn't 
 stop the whole affair from becoming somewhat tedious after you've spent a few hours behind the 
 controls.
 
 Fortunately, the single-player game is just part of the Combat package. Multiplayer fans can arrange 
 a two- to eight-player Internet or network contest or log onto GameSpy to meet and wage war with 
 new partners. The news gets even better for old-school gaming veterans, who may want to take a 
 trip down memory lane with the enclosed PC emulation of Atari's stunningly prehistoric but totally 
 authentic original Combat and its sequel. Magic Lantern has also included a full-blown level editor 
 with which truly hard-core players/designers can develop their own unique Combat worlds.
 
 Considering its simplicity, the original Combat was not and never will be a candidate for a true 
 remake. The same could perhaps be said 25 years hence about this Combat, a game with several fast 
 thrills, a few interesting moments, and a cost-conscious $19.99 price tag, but also a sense that 
 we've all been there and done that many times before. 
 
      
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (1 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: ledime
Rating: 6.5
Date: Mar 4, 2008 5:01 pm PT
Review:  Combat is a robotic space shooter where you're pretty much just sliding around all over the place 
 shooting and praying that you will hit something before it hits you.
  
  This game isn't too bad, it's well worth the place definitely but nothing special to be found here. 
 The graphics and music aren't too bad, they do the job so they're definitely passable. The lasers 
 could have been improved though as they are dull and not very exciting to watch.
  
  There is one notable problem with this game besides the fact that you will be sliding around the 
 whole time is that on the tutorial, it will say things like "For this level, try doing a sharp 
 break to help your control." The only problem with that is that it doesn't tell you in anyway which 
 button to hit to do a sharp break. That right there is pretty much the whole tutorial.
  
  If you're strapped for cash and looking for a quick game to pass the time, then this is pretty 
 much calling your name. This game does have some fun moments, and very few boring moments, but 
 is still nothing special. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
