-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Combat Medic: Special Operations
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/action/combatmedicspecialoperations/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: May 14, 2002
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 4.2
Critic Score: 4.9, 6 Review (s)
User Score: 5.1, 20 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Legacy Interactive
Genre: Modern Action Adventure
Date:     Apr 30, 2002
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Combat Medic probably wasn't the best idea for a game. 

 Legacy Interactive's Combat Medic: Special Ops is basically a cross between an action game and a 
 puzzle game. You play as a modern-day combat medic engaged in a war in the Middle East, and you 
 occasionally play through top-down action sequences in which you shoot at enemy soldiers, though 
 you spend the majority of the game operating on wounded soldiers using a puzzle-game interface. 
 It's an unusual idea, and certainly an interesting one, but as you play, you'll find that Combat 
 Medic probably wasn't the best idea for a game.           Combat Medic's top-down action sequences 
 aren't very exciting.    

  Combat Medic basically has two parts: an action part and a puzzle part. The action part makes up 
 a relatively small percentage of the game, and in it, you control your tiny combat medic from a 
 top-down perspective as he runs about the battlefield shooting at enemy soldiers and looking for 
 wounded allied troops. This part of the game isn't exciting or fast-paced, since aiming at your 
 enemies is as easy as pointing and clicking on them until they stop moving, which they usually 
 do quickly. It's not particularly attractive either, since these action sequences take place between 
 crude stick-figure representations of soldiers on extremely pixelated battlefields. The sound effects 
 for the various weapons and radio communications are adequate, but they don't really make the action 
 sequences any more interesting. When you find an injured patient, you can switch to the patient 
 screen. Once there, you can quickly switch to and from the action screen, which you may have to 
 do if you're taking fire.   

  You'll spend most of your time in Combat Medic in the patient screen, treating wounded soldiers, 
 whom you'll find lying scattered about the action maps. As soon as you begin treating a soldier, 
 the game's perspective switches to a close-up view of a blocky, stiffly animated 3D soldier who 
 may be suffering from a number of different conditions, ranging from shell shock to broken limbs 
 to life-or-death trauma. Depending on your patient's condition, he may insist that you let him 
 get back into battle, moan in pain and fear, or be completely delirious -- the voice acting is delivered 
 convincingly, but there are only a few voice samples, and you'll soon hear them repeated. You treat 
 each soldier using the tools in your backpack, all of which are authentic US Army medical tools, 
 including nasal and tracheal breathing tubes, splints and cravats, and syringes filled with various 
 painkillers. Essentially, it's a puzzle matching game. You must assess each patient's condition, 
 and then perform the corresponding operation. For instance, if your patient has suffered a broken 
 leg, you'll need to dress any wounds and put the leg in a splint. If your patient has had his midsection 
 blown open, you'll need to bandage the blocky pink polygons sticking out of his stomach (his intestines) 
 and give him some morphine for the pain. Despite the relatively crude graphics, Combat Medic's 
 depiction of injuries is pretty graphic. Wounded soldiers are covered with blood, and you'll even 
 be able to amputate limbs that can't be saved.   

  The game has a helpful hint system that will basically tell you what tool to use next on which 
 body part. Whether you use the hints or not, you'll probably find the game's interface to be at 
 least a little frustrating. The only way to cycle through the tools in your backpack is to move 
 your mouse cursor over the left or right arrow icons onscreen, and the movement between your different 
 instruments is sluggish. In addition, you have to be very precise about where you click on your 
 patient's body. In order to target your patient's hand to take his pulse, for instance, you'll 
 need to move the cursor to just the right position on his hand. Otherwise, the procedure won't 
 work.           You'll need to use a real-life US Army medkit to treat the wounded.    

  You might think that Combat Medic is just a game with a bad interface and a poor control scheme, 
 and leave it at that. But if you think about it, the game's slow-to-navigate medical kit and overly 
 precise requirements for targeting your patients' body parts are actually a pretty good representation 
 of what it's like to operate on a real battlefield, at least in theory. Waiting for the game's 
 medkit to sluggishly scroll to the proper tool seems a bit like fumbling with a real-world medkit 
 for just the right tool to treat a wounded, bleeding soldier. And having to be extremely precise 
 when applying your tools to your patient's body parts also makes sense, since field operations 
 on tense, frightened soldiers under heavy fire also requires extreme precision and skill.   

  Unfortunately, these real-world correlations don't really change the fact that Combat Medic, 
 which is a computer game, has a clumsy interface and an unresponsive control scheme. In other words, 
 although the game's patient-treatment parts may actually help convey, in a limited and very abstract 
 sense, what it's like to be a field medic, they don't make for a very good game. Considering its 
 graphic depiction of injuries, Combat Medic is clearly unsuitable as an educational tool for children, 
 and considering its weak action sequences, it doesn't really seem like much of a game for action 
 game fans either. The fact that Combat Medic's music is very subdued and very forgettable also 
 doesn't help, and once you finish the game's 10 missions, you won't have much incentive to replay 
 the game. (Setting the game on a higher difficulty level gives you less time to save your patients 
 and adds more enemy soldiers, but that's about it.) If you'd really like to get some idea of what 
 it's like to be a real-life army medic, and you don't mind doing so in an abstract way that isn't 
 all that realistic, you might enjoy Combat Medic. Otherwise, you probably won't.    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (1 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: KingOfTaco
Rating: 1.7
Date: Jan 30, 2007 1:29 pm PT
Review:  Very few games can claim to be bad in all areas, but Combat Medic is one of them. Some universally 
 bad games like Big Rigs at least showed a somewhat interesting premise (even if they don't live 
 up to it at all) , but Combat Medic is bad even in premise. While there are battles going on, you 
 get to go treat injured soldiers. Which is more boring than it sounds.
  
  Hell, they even managed to mislead the gaming public with the subtitle on the box: Combat Medic: 
 No man is left behind. That makes the game sound like an epic tale of courage until you realize 
 the entire purpose of the game is actually to go back and take care of soldiers who have already 
 been left behind. I guess they figured that subtitle would sound a little more heroic than Combat 
 Medic: We left you behind! I dont know what we were thinking when we did that! Ha ha! Oops!
 
  
  First off, Combat Medic looks and sounds terrible. In between experimenting with ways to abuse 
 medical equipment, you're drifting along a sea of badly-textured, ugly mud with blocky soldiers 
 that like to roll around and babble incoherently. Sometimes when you check on them, they either 
 wonder what's going on or make some indistinguishable sound.
  
  But the gameplay is even more brainless. Your chosen medic transforms into a tiny little toy soldier-thing 
 wandering around a terrible looking map. Your job is to search out injured soldiers marked by yellow 
 squares, which helps people that somehow don't know that the soldiers in need of treatment would 
 be on the ground rather than running and shouting. Once you find them, you get to a closeup view 
 of the soldier, which looks so bad you'll prefer the camera on top of Mount Everest. The terrible 
 controls and interface (seriously, it seems like each body part has one magic pixel that actually 
 registers the action you chose, while the rest ignores it) will quickly make you hate this game 
 and everything to do with it. Now, if you're like me, you'll probably do things that would get 
 your ass fired, like stabbing or prodding people with medical equipment until the soldiers die. 
 Eventually I found the magic pixel for each body part, but by then I hated everything.
  
  Of course, you have to watch out for enemies. But rather than gunning you down, they'll try their 
 hardest to not see you, until you actually start treating somebody. Then again it isn't too hard 
 to take care of them, unless you aren't badass enough to come within two miles of somebody and 
 click on them.
  
  Combat Medic is embarassingly bad in all areas. It's one of those games I got because it looked 
 bad, and I wanted to see just how bad it could possibly be. And it's worse than I expected in every 
 way. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
