-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Combat Mission: Beyond Overlord
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/strategy/combatmissionbeyondoverlord/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Jul  5, 2000
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 9.1
Critic Score: 8.8, 15 Review (s)
User Score: 8.3, 192 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Battlefront. com
Developer: Big Time Software
Genre: Real-Time Wargame
Date:     Jun 1, 2000
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
It's sure to appeal to anyone interested in serious military simulations, but even those just looking 
 for a good World War II computer game should find that it has a lot to offer. 

 Outside of the hard-core wargaming community, Combat Mission: Beyond Overlord didn't receive a lot 
 of attention prior to its release. It was originally developed as the computer version of Avalon 
 Hill's Squad Leader board game, but Avalon Hill terminated the license shortly before Hasbro Interactive 
 purchased the company in 1998. Undaunted, developer Big Time Software pressed ahead and joined 
 with online publisher Battlefront. com to finish the game this summer. While Hasbro's forthcoming 
 Squad Leader may bear the title of the board game, Combat Mission is very true to its spirit, and 
 thus it manages to be one of the best wargames ever made for the computer.   

  Many game players associate computer wargames with stuffy, turn-based strategy games that look 
 a lot like the old board games that reached their height of popularity in the late '70s. Combat 
 Mission brings wargaming up to modern standards without compromising realism and historical accuracy. 
 The most striking aspect of Combat Mission is its fully 3D graphics engine, which, although not 
 up to today's highest standards for computer-game graphics, nevertheless does a good job of presenting 
 a believable World War II battlefield in such a way that hasn't been seen before in the genre. 
   

  Combat Mission depicts the fighting on the western front of World War II between the D-Day invasion 
 of Normandy and the end of the war. Combat units consist of squads of infantry, individual leaders, 
 and individual vehicles. Scenarios pit British, American, French, and Polish units against the 
 Germans in a variety of situations, and you can play as either side, either against the computer 
 or a human opponent.   

  The essence of the gameplay in Combat Mission is very simple: Each turn consists of giving orders 
 to your units, and each is followed by an action phase where both sides' orders are resolved simultaneously. 
 In the orders phase, units can be told to move, fire, crawl, run, place smoke for cover, or perform 
 any number of other realistic combat actions. These orders can be very detailed - a squad of infantry 
 might be told to pause for 15 seconds, crawl up to a hedge, fire over it at a target, and then 
 run over the hedge and into a building. Turns last only 60 seconds of real time when they are resolved 
 (although any amount of time can be spent giving the orders) , so there is only so much a squad 
 or tank can do at once. Unit coordination is the key, and because every unit is moving at the same 
 time, becoming skillful at Combat Mission can take some time.   

  Because of the 3D nature of the game, line-of-sight rules are crucial. It's actually possible to 
 adjust the view to "see" from a given unit's perspective simply by rotating the camera accordingly. 
 Fortunately, Combat Mission has a good line-of-sight tool that makes this judgment easier. You 
 can draw a line from any unit to whatever spot on the map you choose, and the color of the line 
 will display whether line of sight is blocked, as well as where the blockage occurs. Yet even with 
 this kind of help, the 3D view in Combat Mission will take some getting used to for those accustomed 
 to 2D portrayals of combat. But the 3D landscape adds so much realism to both the graphics and 
 the gameplay that the learning curve is well worth it.   

  The orders phase makes Combat Mission seem very much like a traditional wargame. What's surprising 
 is the action phase: A real-time 3D game engine makes all the difference in a tactical wargame. 
 The gameplay can be very tense as you watch a line of tanks roll down a road toward an objective, 
 knowing that the enemy has hidden anti-tank weapons. The battlefield comes alive as your lead tank 
 takes a hit from a concealed gun position up the road. The sound effects tell you and the game 
 screen confirms that your tank was hit, but the shell fails to penetrate. Will the next shot be 
 more effective? Did you remember to bring infantry support to engage the anti-tank gun? Combat 
 Mission is as instantly exciting as a real-time game, but it allows for detailed strategic planning 
 as well. The action phase can be replayed multiple times and from any angle, and it can be rewound, 
 fast-forwarded, or paused. This makes it easy to find out exactly what happened to each unit, even 
 in large scenarios. This combination of action and strategy is something that hasn't ever been 
 achieved so successfully in a wargame.    

 Combat Mission, in keeping with its status as a historical simulation, features very detailed game 
 mechanics. The game models a large number of units from all the combatants, and complex game formulas 
 ensure that things like armor penetration and road speed are both realistic and accurate for each 
 weapon involved. Combat Mission models human factors as well, so everything from panic and rally 
 to the delay in response caused by units being too far from their commander is represented in the 
 game. Combat Mission lets you plot detailed orders for each unit, right down to how fast a tank 
 moves and what direction it faces, but when units start coming under fire, they may choose to defend 
 themselves rather than continue following their orders and risking destruction.   

  There are several different play modes in Combat Mission. The most familiar one is the single-battle 
 scenario, where each force has established units and objectives that are predetermined according 
 to a historical situation. These range from river crossings to relieving the besieged British paratroopers 
 in Arnhem to American attempts to halt the German drive during the Battle of the Bulge. There's 
 a vast selection of scenarios, which includes battles of all sizes over many different types of 
 terrain. Combat Mission even has urban combat, as you can fight to liberate Paris or re-create 
 the gritty combat in the German city of Aachen.   

  Combat Mission also introduces multibattle "operations," which are essentially single scenarios 
 fought over a very large map. Each battle takes place on a smaller portion of the map, and the 
 starting positions for the battles depend on the results of the previous ones. Combat Mission also 
 has a quick-battle feature, which lets you assign basic scenario guidelines so that the computer 
 can generate a random battle. It's a good way to keep you from getting too used to the premade 
 scenarios without forcing you to generate your own from scratch. However, if you specifically want 
 to re-create a certain battle, you will want to take advantage of Combat Mission's powerful scenario 
 editor. All the game's play modes are available for multiplayer combat, either via play by e-mail 
 or on one computer. While Combat Mission is not yet playable via network, Big Time Software has 
 promised to produce a free patch to add this feature later in the summer.   

  Combat Mission's artificial intelligence is like most all wargaming artificial intelligence: It's 
 much better when it's on the defensive. It's more limited on the attack, and it has the tendency 
 to make uncoordinated assaults that are easier to break up than they would be if a skilled human 
 player were in command. Nevertheless, the overall quality of the AI is surprisingly good, and it 
 has enough surprises in store to make all the scenarios worth playing from either side. While very 
 experienced wargamers might not be overly challenged by the computer when they're defending, there 
 are enough interesting attacking scenarios to keep even the most battle-hardened wargamers busy 
 for a long time, just as many Combat Missions players are creating custom scenarios for download 
 at various fan sites.   

  Combat Mission comes with an extensive, well-indexed manual that does an excellent job of explaining 
 all aspects of the game. In addition, it's written in a straightforward style that's easy to follow, 
 and it should be accessible to players of any level of experience. While the calculations used 
 to model weapon performance are too complex to be worth describing, the factors that go into things 
 like armor kills are explained so that you can easily figure out what each unit's strengths and 
 weaknesses are, even if you don't have a historical background.   

  Combat Mission is sure to appeal to anyone interested in serious military simulations, but even 
 those just looking for a good World War II computer game should find that the game has a lot to 
 offer. The point-and-click interface is just about as intuitive as possible, and there's an excellent 
 tutorial scenario accompanied by a detailed, step-by-step walk-through in the manual. Combat Mission 
 should appeal to anyone looking for a challenging strategy game, as well as anyone that is even 
 remotely interested in the 20th century's biggest war. If you're interested in immersive strategic 
 gameplay with a historical focus, but you've always thought wargames to be too complicated or too 
 dry, then Combat Mission is for you.   

  Combat Mission is available only on the Internet through publisher Battlefront. com's web site at 
 a full-price retail game's cost of $45 plus shipping. It's also a rare case when a game developed 
 by a small publisher (and essentially coded by one person) can stand up to bigger budget commercial 
 releases without apology. Combat Mission has truly done something special for the computer wargame 
 genre, and it will be remembered years from now as the game that turned the genre on its ear. Big 
 Time Software plans to release follow-up games covering the eastern front, North Africa, and the 
 early war, and considering how good Combat Mission is, that's something to really look forward 
 to.    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (3 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: hsedai
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 1, 2008 6:34 pm PT
Review:  It took me a while to truly learn this game because it was so very realistic. The expert "grognards" 
 did their homework and found out the ballistics of each round fired to the effect a single round 
 would have on armor. 
  
  I cared about my forces whether I was Axis or Allies. I forgot I was playing a game and I dare 
 not make a chess analogy with this game because it simply will not fit. There is much more to the 
 planning within a simple battle than you would think and the effect that morale would have upon 
 real humans. Would a real human be afraid of being shot at? Well, so do your troops in this game.
 
  
  The graphics were alright but not spectacular. They did a good job researching the battlefields 
 of the era and recreated small towns. The scenario designer tools are quite good and easy to learn 
 while the random battle facet is tremendously fun and rewarding. 
  
  The built in PBEM (Play by Email) implemented a Turn based competition that was quite fun. I must 
 have had ten human opponents at the same time.
  
  It was truly a tremendous game and should be the example for those other WWII games that strive 
 for accuracy. Remember, the subject matter is for the "Greatest Generation"
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: jenolie
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 6, 2008 12:41 pm PT
Review:  Combat Mission is not just revolutionary but a giant leap forward in the evolution of pc wargames.
 
  
  When you think of pc wargames images of hexes and counters come to mind. Basically a board game 
 transposed to a pc screen.
  
  Well Combat Mission chucks that out, brings in the miniatures but does it one better! The soldiers, 
 tanks, and half tracks all move, shoot , fall and die or explode.
  
  But, this ain't no RTS clickfest. There is sound strategic planning involved, line of sight issues 
 are at play, the armor thickness of the tanks and vehicles are all accurately modeled, as well 
 as the ballistics of the armaments. Combat Mission has all the trappings that would please a grognard, 
 but what makes this game special is what happens next. After all the planning, you hit the end 
 turn button and your orders are played out in real time along with your opponent's orders. What 
 you get is one minute of action that you can only watch play out. And what a nail biting minute 
 it can be. Will your orders be carried out perfectly or will things go totally fubar.
  
  I'll never forget at the Battle of Arnhem scenario where I was trying to get my mg trooper to cover 
 in a church. He runs across an open field evading all kinds of fire, and just when he's about to 
 get to the building a lone soldier pops out from behind a bush and guns him down. Ouch, but what 
 a moment.
  
  This is one extremely entertaining wargame. Something I could never really say of any game in this 
 genre before Combat Mission along.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dazooz
Rating: 9.3
Date: Apr 10, 2005 2:29 am PT
Review:  Intro: Battlefront set out to make the best squad based WW II game and I feel that they succeeded. 
 This game mixes the ideas of Squad Leader (board game) and Close Combat. 
  Graphical representation of the battles is impressive!
  
  Gameplay: The game is set up so that 
 you can play against the AI, but where it really shines is against human opponents via an internet 
 game or PBEM. The system is set up as a WEGO turnbased. It means, I enter my orders, then you enter 
 your orders, then I watch the battle phase and you watch the battle phase, repeat. The battle phase 
 is a 60 second movie that carries our your orders, or not depending on what happens in that time 
 period. I feel that this system of turns revolutionized the war game genre. 
  
  The camera can zoom all around the map during play, from a bird's eye view to a lowly soldier in 
 the trenches view. 
  
  It is very realistic, modeling moral and so forth, and tracks every shot fired. It also rewards 
 real life tactics!
  
  Graphics: The game is beautiful (getting slightly dated now) . The terrain is very well done and 
 the vehicles look very realistic. The soldiers have a little to be desired, but are generally well 
 done. The firing effects are very good as is the smoke and fog. ONe of the best looking war games 
 I have ever played. 
  
  Sounds: Also very well done, from the German voices to the squeaky drive of a Panther tank. Firing 
 sound effects are also well done. 
  
  Overall: The game is highly modifiable with all of the graphics and sound mods in the community. 
 It adds much to the game. Also, the scenarios are endless within the community at this time, anything 
 you could want for a challenge! 
  
  One of the best games ever in my opinion. If you have even a passing interest in World War II and 
 tactics, try out the demo, you won't be sorry! 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
