-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Combat Flight Simulator 3: Battle for Europe
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/sim/combatflightsimulator3/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Oct 25, 2002
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7
Critic Score: 7.3, 21 Review (s)
User Score: 7.4, 478 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Microsoft Game Studios
Genre: WWII Flight Sim
Date:     Oct 25, 2002 &raquo;  
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
If you're a longtime flight sim fan and are eager for another visit to the western front, Combat 
 Flight Simulator 3 is a reasonable choice. 

 You may fondly remember games from 10 or even 20 years ago, but the fact is, by today's higher standards, 
 most of those classic games aren't much fun. That's not to say that they had no real impact at 
 the time, because the best classic games aspired to new heights with what now seems like limited 
 technology, and the gameplay of classic series evolved based on the idea that new games should 
 offer more than last year's game with better graphics. Games back then weren't always groundbreaking, 
 and they were sometimes redundant, but in the case of flight simulators, they were developed in 
 order to come as close as possible to the real thing. Developers expended lots of effort on making 
 planes look like more than just a pile of moving squares and triangles, and the physics engines 
 they created pushed the limits of computers without really approaching the realistic behavior of 
 a plane in flight. Ten years ago, the idea of a flight simulator with photo-realistic graphics 
 was a fantasy, but now it seems possible for developers to create an all-encompassing flight simulator 
 that's both realistic and fantastic looking. Is Microsoft's Combat Flight Simulator 3: Battle for 
 Europe this game?           The terrain graphics are a focal point of the game.    

  While the first Combat Flight Simulator was a spin-off of the Flight Simulator franchise and made 
 many compromises, the first game did a good job of putting a good graphics engine together with 
 accurate flight physics in a consistent manner. More importantly, it gave players a chance to revisit 
 the Pacific theater of World War II, which had been conspicuously missing from flight simulators 
 for years. So at the time, it was easy to forgive some omissions, like the fact that even though 
 the game simulated the conflict in the Pacific theater, there were no flyable dive- or torpedo-bombers. 
 On the surface, Combat Flight Simulator 3 seems to have addressed the biggest outstanding issues 
 of its predecessor: the lack of both a dynamic campaign and a decent multiplayer component. Combat 
 Flight Simulator 3 has an interesting campaign in which you can affect the progress of the ground 
 war (both directly, through successful missions, and indirectly, through launching ground offensives 
 by spending points earned in combat) . In addition, the game has cooperative multiplayer (albeit 
 only for single missions) in which you can fly both bombers and fighters. On paper, the game has 
 almost everything you'd want. But once you actually get in the air, it's a somewhat different experience. 
   

  The game ships with 18 different aircraft, all of which are flyable. For the British, this includes 
 the Spitfire, the Typhoon, the Tempest, the Mosquito, the (US-designed) B-25 Mitchell, and the 
 Vampire jet. The Americans get the P-47 Thunderbolt, the P-51 Mustang, the B-26 Marauder, the P-38 
 Lightning, the P-80 Shooting Star jet, and the experimental Curtiss P-55 Ascender. German pilots 
 can fly the Me-109, the FW-190, the Ju-88, the Me-262 jet fighter, and the distinctly odd Go-229 
 and Do-335. Many of the aircraft have variants, which brings the absolute total to more than 30. 
 However, if you don't see any of your other favorite planes in the above list, they're not in the 
 game. That means that in this simulation of air combat over Europe from 1943 to 1945, you'll never 
 see a Flying Fortress or a Liberator. It's as odd as not being able to fly Dauntlesses in Combat 
 Flight Simulator 2.   

  Apparently, these omissions were a side effect of the developers' focus on their brand-new terrain 
 engine, which is supposed to make down-low flying as visually attractive as flying at high altitudes. 
 For the most part it succeeds, although on the whole it's rather uneven. The trees and buildings 
 look nice, but some of the ground textures are a bit off, and sometimes the effect can be spoiled. 
 In any case, focusing on the appearance of the ground is certainly an unusual way to approach a 
 flight simulation.   

  But these detailed terrain graphics have a price: steep hardware requirements. Even with a high-end 
 processor, you won't be able to get the most out of the game visually unless you also have a high-end 
 graphics card, which isn't normally the case with flight sims. On a 2.4GHz Pentium 4 machine, we 
 were unable to run the game well without turning the graphics down -- even at 1280x1024 -- until we 
 replaced the GeForce 3 with a GeForce 4. We also experienced some stuttering at all resolutions. 
           The aircraft models are simply outstanding.    

  The aircraft models are, in general, gorgeous, and the virtual cockpits are as good as they were 
 in Combat Flight Simulator 2, complete with moving control surfaces. The flight models are quite 
 good, and they show the differences between the aircraft very well. On the higher realism settings, 
 the game does a very nice job of modeling all sorts of factors, like engine torque, which can make 
 takeoffs challenging for new pilots. The game's damage modeling is also good, since Combat Flight 
 Simulator 3 has good special effects to display damage in the air and on the flight models. Both 
 the graphics and the realistic physics are scalable, which should make the game accessible to players 
 with a wide variety of skill levels and computer hardware. In short, everything about the actual 
 planes themselves, from their appearance (inside and out) to their behavior, is excellent. The 
 planes are clearly the best part of the sim, though the game's impressive volumetric clouds also 
 look excellent, and actually provide a tactical advantage, since you can often hide within the 
 clouds themselves.    

 The multiplayer options have been enhanced since the previous Combat Flight Simulator, and it's 
 now possible to play single missions cooperatively, although not the campaign. There are a number 
 of one-shot historical missions included, and there are plenty of different mission options as 
 well. Competitive multiplayer is also supported, of course.           The AI pilots treat all bombers 
 like dive bombers -- even this B-26 Marauder.    

  It's easy to understand the choice of flyable aircraft for this game, especially given the campaign 
 structure. As you progress through the campaign, you get access to new aircraft, and by the end 
 of the campaign, you'll be flying around in brand-new jets. You can also customize your aircraft 
 with different paint schemes. There is even a role-playing element that involves using points you 
 earn by flying to boost skills like vision, G-force tolerance, and health. Progressing through 
 the war, and thus through better aircraft, gives the campaign its continuity. The jets toward the 
 end are something of a reward.   

  The dynamic campaign is a big part of the game, and it offers a lot of choices in terms of missions. 
 The game generates a list of possible missions for different sectors of the map, and if you successfully 
 complete them, you eventually advance the front line in that area. If you earn enough prestige 
 points, you can initiate a ground offensive in a certain sector, which has the effect of moving 
 the front on a larger scale. But this costs a lot of prestige, so pulling off a ground offensive 
 requires some element of strategy. It's a great idea, and it's further fleshed out by the fact 
 that the game generates airfields, flak, and other things wherever you fly. If you stray from your 
 objective, you may find yourself in deep trouble. The campaign front line doesn't always follow 
 the success of your missions, however, which can be frustrating because you'll find yourself winning 
 battles but losing the war. If the core gameplay were better, it would matter less.   

  There are a number of quirks in the game engine, as well. One of the strangest is the way in which 
 the AI pilots turn level bombers into dive-bombers. It's odd to see B-25 Mitchells suddenly dive 
 to take out a bridge. Bombers also have a problem in that not all tracers at their gun positions 
 align with the guns' sights. This makes gunnery much more challenging at times, and definitely 
 more frustrating. While the general aircraft sounds are well done, the airwaves are strangely silent, 
 except when your wingmen acknowledge your orders. Otherwise, it's as if you're fighting a one-man 
 war. Lastly, there isn't a flight recorder in the game, even though it is mentioned in the documentation. 
 Apparently, it was cut from the game at a very late stage. The game also doesn't have any mission 
 builder.   

  Once you've had a chance to sit down and play the game, you may get the impression that the developers 
 were still trying to solve the problems of 1996, while the rest of the world has moved on to other 
 issues. As mentioned earlier, the game's flight models are good, and the graphics are great. End 
 of story, right? Six years ago, sure. But more recently, European Air War from 1998 was neither 
 the best-looking sim of its time, nor the one with the most accurate flight model, but in that 
 year's crowded flight simulator market, it was the only World War II simulation that made a lasting 
 impression. This wasn't an accident.           You can man all the gunnery stations aboard a bomber. 
    

  There have been a few landmark sims in recent years that really pushed the limits of what we expect 
 from these types of games, albeit in very different ways -- games that not only modeled cockpits, 
 takeoffs, landings, and dogfights, but also actually integrated all these elements into missions 
 and campaigns that really made you feel as though you were part of the action. Combat Flight Simulator 
 3, on the other hand, makes you feel like you're using a really nice-looking, technically accurate 
 computer program. It certainly has its appeal, but after what has been done over the past few years 
 in games like Rowan's Battle of Britain and IL-2 Sturmovik, it's disappointing to see such technical 
 excellence in the service of such a narrow vision.   

  If you're new to flight sims and want to fly Mustangs, Thunderbolts, Focke-Wulfs, and other planes 
 in a variety of interesting missions in the best World War II western front flight sim available, 
 find a copy of European Air War. It's cheap, and it will run smoothly on today's systems. On the 
 other hand, if you're a longtime flight sim fan who has played that title to death already and 
 you're eager for another visit to the western front, Combat Flight Simulator 3 is a reasonable 
 choice. Just make sure you have a good video card, and don't expect too see very much in the way 
 of new things.    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (18 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: busterboots
Rating: 5.5
Date: Dec 30, 2008 3:54 pm PT
Review:  The same thing I said. It is okay but not great and the graphics don't help with the rating, either. 
 Personally, I like Flight Simulator 2004 better because the game is more focused on the way it 
 looks and plays. In this game Microsoft focused too much on making it feel like you are actually 
 in the war rather then what it looks like. (which it doesn't even feel like you are in the war...) 
 This game also does not have any aircraft that are relatively good. In fact, they all stink. They 
 all do the same thing and barely have different looks. They actually resemble a piece of poop. 
 :) CFS didn't change at all from the other CFS's. The game rightfully deserves its rating of a 
  
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cheesy_potatoe
Rating: 1
Date: Jul 14, 2008 1:45 pm PT
Review:  This game is like a waste of my money (10$) I wanted to buy a 10$ game from some of my money left 
 over and I went to Target and found to games This one and Jetfighter 2015 but I decided to give 
 a simulator a try and when i put it in and started to play it I was going out of control. I could 
 hardly even controll the plane and the 1st person view was hard to see where you were going and 
 the controls are a whole long list of nothing i will read. to me the graphics could have needed 
 polishing they are all first gen but they are not that bad (except for the opening cut scene which 
 id epic) . the sound is pretty much good but the mechanics and controls are were it really sucks
 
  even if i had it on realism 0% it still was broken (to me) it is not even that fast, I wanted 
 a fast paced dog fight but I just got a slow airliner. I am just going to uninstall this game and 
 not even play it again 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Andilliio
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 10, 2008 9:50 pm PT
Review:  I personally love everything that has to do with flight and flying. Even if you are new to the 
 flight genre and want are interested in flying than this game is right for you! It is really realistic 
 and the graphics are stunning for a game made in 2002. I think that this is as close as you can 
 get to piston engine flying combat without the real thing. The planes are fun to fly and shoot 
 down and the campain is really cool because of how realistic it is and how you can change the history 
 of world war two. I personnally enjoy the quick combat the best and trying out all the planes until 
 I find one I really like (Fw-190A-9) . The campain mode in this game has a lot of cool aspects like 
 if you are about to die it is smarter to bail out and try and escape the POW then to actually die 
 thus losing the entire campain. Unfortunatly the campain is really easy because of how small the 
 map is and how the victory locations are placed on it. Also the map is really confusing and knowing 
 the signifigance of everything is hard. All of the planes are a little to similar and I think that 
 there isn't very much variety of the stats between a few of them. I have also experianced a lot 
 of technical difficulties with the graphics and it shuts off every once and a while but if you 
 really want to play it is pretty easy to get over these things. Another very small problem i had 
 was the planes in the distance kind of phased in and out of existance. However if you love flight 
 games as much as I do then you will find something to love in this game. The realism is spectacular 
 and makes this game hard to put down. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Zach68486
Rating: 7.5
Date: Feb 9, 2008 6:57 am PT
Review:  I'll jump straight into the review on this one.
  
  The graphics in CFS3 aren't all that impressive. They aren't bad, but they aren't impressive. The 
 buildings are modeled and textures quite nicely, but thats about it. The planes are spectacularly 
 modeled down to every last detail, even in the cockpit. 
  
  The sounds in the game are pretty good. The angry bark of a nose-mounted machine-gun won't disappoint, 
 and the sounds of your plane being shredded apart by enemy fire will have you struggling to bail 
 out.
  
  The AI aren't the smartest around, but they get the job done... kind of. The enemies challenge you 
 in the sense that they will dodge and weave as you attempt to shoot them down, but I have rarely 
 ever experienced an enemy aggressively coming up on your tail to attack you directly. Your squadron 
 members who fly with you and try to help fall short aswell, not doing very much in dogfights. They 
 do, however, succeed in sinking ships and taking out ground targets.
  
  There is ONE major flaw that really brings this game down a few points.
  
  The fact that, even 
 in the most agile planes, you will struggle to dogfight due to the constant stalling in this game. 
 You will turn and climb and descend like wild to try and kill your target, but this constant stalling 
 B. S keeps you from doing so. Not to mention the fact that during the game, it feels like the more 
 time you play the more your joystick is coming uncalibrated, which means that the plane becomes 
 unresponsive and you cannot control it. Many a time have I ended up bailing out because my plane 
 was in an uncontrollable dive towards the ground. This flaw will have you angry, cursing and mad. 
 It has no explanation, either, and no way to fix or remedy the situation. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ClassySloth
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 6, 2007 8:22 am PT
Review:  Wow... I have such mixed reactions to this. On one hand, it's a much needed overhaul of the original 
 CFS idea: the Air War in the ETO (European Theater of Operations) and adds the addition of flyable 
 bombers, being able to man the turret and bombardier positions, and being able to customize loadouts, 
 and even torpedoes on some planes. Definitely features the original Combat Flight Sim (CFS) was 
 lacking. The graphics were amazing, and I have to say, I like them. However, there are alot of 
 scars on this otherwise pretty face that is the third and (supposedly) final Combat Flight Simulator. 
 For starters, WHAT IS WITH THE AI? B-26 Marauders dive-bombing? Let's not even get me STARTED on 
 the lame multi-player. Microsoft shutting down the MSN Gaming Zone's CD-Rom lobbies was a bad decision, 
 and upset many fans. There would have been much more multi-player action had that stayed up and 
 this game been Zone compatible. I also think the lack of scenery and ability to fly anywhere in 
 the world was a major let-down. I always loved flying to Manilla in Combat Flight Sim 1, stopping 
 at user-made sceneries along the way, or heading up to Africa in Combat Flight Sim 2, off the USS 
 John C. Stennis in my F/A-18C. The CFS Series' biggest asset was the fact that you could make just 
 about ANYTHING for it, and here they go and take it out. Quite irritating, to say the LEAST. However, 
 there is quite a bit of pretty scenery, and downloads to change the way the water looks, if you 
 so desire. There are a great amount of aircraft addons (available both through www. simviation. com 
 and www. avhistory. org) which make the game that much more enjoyable. You can download Italian and 
 Russian aircraft, planes sorely missing from this game. There's also a project in the works for 
 turning the ETO Air Wars into the North Africa Theater of Operation (can't recall the name at the 
 time) , so you're never at a total loss for adding on to CFS3. I just wouldn't reccommend this for 
 anyone who expects this to be up-to-par with Microsoft's previous Combat Flight Simulator 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gamehereo92
Rating: 6.4
Date: Jul 3, 2007 2:27 pm PT
Review:  This game is okay but it's not a very good game. The sound is proboly the best part as well as 
 the exsplosion effects. CFS 3 however dosen't stand up to other games like Oleg's Il2 Shturmovik 
 or Shockwave's Battle of Britain 2: Wings of Victory. This biggist drawbacks are the flat terrain, 
 the lagging at high graffic settings, the reppeitive mission and campain and the constant stalling 
 in a dogfight. But it's okay for begginers because of the easy dynamics of the flight as well as 
 simple bombsite in the level bombers. But if you want a challinging campain as well as other aspects 
 get Il2 or BoB2 WoV. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: robertn_69
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 4, 2007 12:56 am PT
Review:  Microsoft's Combat Flight Simulator 3 is easily one of the most ambitious flight simulators ever 
 produced, but not for any typical flight sim features. Rather, its key feature point is a dynamic 
 campaign that responds to the players actions and shapes the outcome of the war. Players choose 
 between the RAF, Luftwaffe and USAAF and fly their first missions starting in early 1943.
  
  Of course, this being a continuous campaign with randomly-generated missions, it suffers from 
 all the traditional drawbacks of random missions. Given that real AI is still a pipe dream, random 
 missions always fall into pre-determined categories set by the designers. Since CFS3s focus is 
 not on air to air combat but on the tactical ground war, these limited scenarios might actually 
 have turned out in its favor. After all, there were only so many kinds of ground targets that a 
 fighter-bomber or tactical bomber could hit, right? Thats very true, but rarely are the targets 
 in the real world going to be carbon copies of one another.
  
  Even though CFS3 presents the player with multiple choices for missions, and in fact even allows 
 him to choose the zone in which the mission will be flown, it quickly gets repetitive. Part of 
 the problem is that the cream-of-the-crop, 3 star missions are inevitably the same kind. Another 
 problem is that few players will deliberately choose missions they find difficult or frustrating. 
 In fact, the tendency is to pick the easiest, or quickest, or most interesting ones. While this 
 varies by player, inevitably a select few favorites appear and the rest become neglected. Its 
 all too easy to become trapped in a repetitive cycle of easy missions, because its better than 
 doing the ones you dont enjoy. This is particularly since the AI pilots are useless, you cant 
 trust them to cover for you and the command interface with them is hopelessly insufficient. The 
 best you can hope is to help a few destroy the target, order the remaining ones to attack targets 
 of opportunity and make it home. Dont bother trying to give new orders until theyre done their 
 old ones. Sure, youre being shot to hell. But he has that bridge to destroy.
  
  The campaign management part of the game offers up the same kind of perceived depth that the flying 
 was supposed to. As the player flies and completes missions, he collects prestige. Naturally, more 
 prestige is gained for successful completions, and bonuses can be earned by nailing targets of 
 opportunity. The personal prestige of the player allows him to purchase an upgraded aircraft for 
 himself. Strangely, this purchase only works if the aircraft is available to the squadron.
  
  The squadron has its own prestige level, which appears to be the sum of the total prestige 
 earned by all its pilots. Squadron prestige is what unlocks the big rewards of the game, like getting 
 new aircraft early, or launching ground offensives. But why launch ground offensives if they happen 
 anyway? The new aircraft you get eventually, and their cost in prestige is ridiculous. Still, youll 
 end up getting them early just because theres nothing else to do with it.
  
  Do not expect to be able to run this game on a standard computer. It's graphics are un matched 
 meaning only those with top of the line computers can expect to play it. Luckily, advanced graphic 
 settings allow you to adjust the strain put onto your computer allowing a more smooth flight when 
 set to low. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jeff58
Rating: 5
Date: Mar 11, 2007 5:48 pm PT
Review:  Let's just say that if you are a fan of fast paced, amazing dog fights, this isnt the game for 
 you.
  
  The models of the planes are amazing, down to the last detail. The landscape is good (depending 
 on ur video card) and the plane selection and oradanance choices are adequate- although a B-17 
 and Lancaster would have been nice. instead of the Marauder and the Mitchell.
  
  But, as the old saying goes, don't judge a book by its over.
  
  This game seriously has a hard-on 
 for making ur plane stall. It is almost impossible to dogfight when ur plane stalls like it does 
 in CFS3. Sometimes the stalling gets so bad, I cant climb... at all. The AI planes have no problem 
 , swooping and swerving, climbing, turning, all around you, yet u just sit there in mid-air, cursing 
 that little red phrase at the top right hand corner of ur monitor- Danger- Stall 
  
  This game would be great if there was less stalling, and worse, you cant change the amount of it 
 in realism options. 
  
  If you want a faster-paced game without stalling, buy Il-2 
::::::

::::::
UserName: polmas
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 16, 2006 6:48 am PT
Review:  I first bought cfs2 in my first experiance in flight simulation, the result was incredible. I bought 
 next cfs3 after reading some bad reviewers about it, but i like the game because it included some 
 new options, like bomber, and a great number of floor-objectives, instantly i thaught that the 
 game was very inspirated in the guncam color flims recorded in the last days of the ww2 (you can 
 find this in the youtube) . The aircraft was very detailed and the graphics were good, th campain 
 was good, etc. But the thing i really dislike and that it was worth than in cfs2 was the dofight 
 really poor. The programmers had resloved this in a expension called firepower, that includes b-17 
 and very special effects of dog fight, inspirated too in the guncams films.
  
  Important, there are some extra free aircrafts in the net
  
  
  Please, forgive me because 
 i don't speak english very well..
  
  Thank you for read it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Link1990
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 23, 2006 4:26 am PT
Review:  Combat Flight Simulator 3 is a great flight simulator for the WWII era aficionado. It has many 
 different features that flight sim fans will enjoy. The game play is excellent. CFS3 features a 
 variety of flyable aircraft, as well as many different types of weapons, including bombs and rockets. 
 The campaign mode is dynamic, the front line moves into enemy territory if the player does well, 
 and into friendly territory if the player performs poorly. There are also a variety of missions 
 to fly. Flight models are fairly realistic, with stall and g effects. The graphics are excellent. 
 With a good graphics card, RAM, and processor, aircraft models look very detailed. Clouds are numerous 
 and appear to actually take up volume. Pilots have various animations when on the ground, sometimes 
 they will smile at their plane if they performed well, or they can run for cover during a crash 
 landing. The menu music is decent, but the same theme gets really repetitive after several hours 
 of play. Sound effects are good, as for explosions, prop sounds, and machine gun fire. The radio 
 also sounds pretty clear, even though there is not much to be heard most of the time. When it first 
 came out, the game had some issues on running on some lower-end machines, but it runs at a good 
 frame rate on machines with more RAM and processing power. It is best to tune down the graphics 
 when first playing it because the graphics will drop the frame rate significantly. Overall, this 
 is a great game for any flight sim fan that enjoys WWII shooters. It could use some more improvements, 
 like more aircraft and missions, but it is still a great game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: d3boy2001
Rating: 7.7
Date: Feb 18, 2006 11:15 am PT
Review:  the game has a lot of pros and a lot of cons.
  pros:
  the game graphics are pretty good
  the sound is pretty good
  the gameplay is very similar to the real war
  shooting is difficult, 
 but realistic
  bombing is difficult, but realistic
  if you have a good video card and a joystick, you're gonna have some fun!!!
  etc.
  
  cons
 
  I hate the stalling. every time i try to gian altitude, my plane stalls, and the other planes 
 dont.
  if you dont have a joystick, WOW. the plane flies like the pilot is drunk
  
  I play thi game every time i get a chance, and by the way, the intro movie is SO COOL! 
  and 
 if you have finished the game or something, u get a new plane or somethin i thinK. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Joe1854679
Rating: 4.9
Date: Jan 21, 2006 7:45 am PT
Review:  I don't know where to start. This ... program can hardly be classified by a game. Sure, the flight 
 dynamics are good, but the combat part is virtually non-existent. The missions can get very, very 
 repetitive. Microsoft let me down on this one... I bought Microsoft Flight Sim 2004 a couple years 
 ago, and I enjoy it very much. Now when I am looking for a combat flight game, I find this and 
 think it would be a great game. Now I find that I spent $30 for a piece of junk. Trust me, do not 
 buy this "game".
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: mort2fire
Rating: 8.2
Date: Jan 8, 2006 9:24 am PT
Review:  Shocking Graphics, and real time fighting battles.
  
  A salvo of bombs and rockets is released, shattering positions.
  Suddenly, enemys fighters dive 
 in to engage. 
  Bullets fly.
  Adrenaline surges.
  Hearts Pound.
  The battle for Europe has begun.....
  
  You can pilot 18 authentic WWII aircrafts, Inlcuding 
 the earliest combat jets.
  
  Experiance stunningly accurate 3D cockpit details.
  
  Leave your cockpit seat and man the bombardiers or gunner positions.
  
  Battle in thrilling 
 multiplayers missions.
  
  The game delivers:
  Highly detailed ground attack targets and Europeans scenery, clearly visible at 200 foot flying 
 levels.
  Fast, responsive low altitude action.
  Enhanced weather graphics and effects.
  
  Fly 18 different planes, with 34 total variations.
  
  Example:
  P-S1B, D Mustang
  P-47D-24, 
 25 Thunderbolt
  
  Typhoon IB
  Tempest V
  Spitfire LF IXc, e
  
  Arrow Do-335A-1, B2
  Gotha Go 229A-0 (jet)
  
  As real as it gets. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: the_lerxst
Rating: 7.2
Date: Dec 27, 2005 10:28 am PT
Review:  I have been flying the Flight Simulator series since its inception. After mastering IFR navigation 
 and learning to fly everything available, I decided that the only way to increase the challenge 
 was to add guns so I began a several-month search for the right combat sim. 
  
  After deciding that jet combat would be boring (shooting down enemies with a missile before you 
 can even see them?!?) and WWI combat would get repetitive (mostly dog-fighting, as bombs and rockets 
 hadnt come into their own yet) , I settled on CFS 2. It had the best reviews, but, more importantly, 
 was at least loosely based on the Flight Simulator model. I approached the combat sim genre from 
 the sim perspective rather than the combat perspective, so accurate flight modeling and a game 
 which incorporated all the details of flying was more important to me than being able to easily 
 score hundreds of kills in an arcade-type game.
  
  I have thoroughly enjoyed CFS 2 for the dog-fighting it provides, but its surface-attack options 
 left me wanting more. So I got CFS 3. 
  
  But first I upgraded my video card. CFS 2 worked just fine with a 64 meg card, but I knew that 
 CFS 3 would not. Yes, a 64 meg card is above the stated system requirements, but lets be honest 
 you should NEVER believe system requirements. One of the stated goals of CFS 3 was to improve ground 
 scenery, since ground attack was such a large focus in the development of CFS 3. It should be obvious 
 that this will tax a low-end video card.
  
  So I bought a 256 meg video card because Im too broke to get anything better. With this upgrade, 
 I took CFS 2 from the lowest end of graphic quality to maximum quality. It looks a lot nicer, but 
 that doesnt matter, since CFS 2 is all about dog-fighting, and in a dog-fight youre too busy 
 not dieing to enjoy the scenery. Explosions and smoke looked better, too.
  
  Then I installed CFS 3. The terrain in CFS 3 is so much more detailed than CFS 2 that I was once 
 again reduced to the minimum graphic quality. But CFS 3 looks better at minimum quality than CFS 
 2 looked at maximum quality
  
   so quit griping, all you people who complain about how it stutters. If you read Microsofts press 
 about CFS 3 you should have surmised that it would be graphics-intensive, and if just wanted to 
 dog-fight with acceptable graphics you should have stuck with CFS 2. This is why youre supposed 
 to research products before you buy them
  
  but I digress. CFS 3, while not heaven in the skies, is a very adequate, even good, release. 
 There are plenty of targets to strafe, dive-bomb, and rocket into oblivion. Or you could fly a 
 tactical bomber to pack a larger punch. The bomb view feature is nice; you can watch your bombs 
 falling and see where they strike, so you know how you did. Not realistic, but nice. 
  
  Dog-fighting is a LOT more difficult. The aircraft in the European theater are (on the whole) a 
 lot more sleek than their Pacific counterparts, which means more streamlined cockpits with worse 
 visibility. There is not much visual room between the gun-sight and the top of the engine cowling, 
 so trying to lead a target is mostly guess-work: in order to hit him, you have to lead him to the 
 point where you cant see him. I understand that theres a way to make the cockpit invisible, eliminating 
 this problem, but thats cheating. I havent bothered to learn how to cheat like that.
  
  The sleek, liquid-cooled planes of CFS 3 are also much more maneuverable than their radial air-cooled 
 brethren in CFS 2. Learning to control such maneuverable aircraft is a challenge, just as it was 
 during the real thing.
  
  The improved damage modeling also makes dog-fighting more difficult (and more realistic) . It now 
 matters WHERE you hit your opponent. You can get deep on your enemys six and get a dozen shots 
 into his rear fuselage and accomplish nothing other than waste bullets. Get a good lead shot into 
 his engine or fuel tank, however, and a couple of rounds can turn him into a fireball.
  
  The campaign feature is confusing and not intuitive. Im sure itll make sense eventually but 
 it does allow you to select from a few missions each time, so you can focus on things you enjoy 
 (like bridge-busting) or practice things youre not good at. The dynamic campaign is enjoyable 
 and immersive if you have the time. If youre a casual gamer, it will seem a little esoteric. The 
 hypothetical aircraft accentuate the dynamic campaign. If you like how the dynamic campaign creates 
 alternative history, you will probably enjoy these aircraft. If you want to re-create WWII you 
 probably will not. 
  
  Overall, CFS 3 is a solid release, if you have the hardware to run it. It is, in my opinion, written 
 for those of us with a taste for ground attack. Those of you who prefer dog-fighting, stick to 
 CFS 2 (or IL 2 Sturmovik Ive never played it, but Ive heard its fantastic) . If you do decide 
 to get CFS 3, do yourself a favor and upgrade your video card - no matter how good your card is 
 - or else be prepared to take a major hit in the graphics quality department. The gorgeous terrain 
 of CFS 3, essential to quality ground attacking, isnt free.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ishmail6
Rating: 8.6
Date: Nov 27, 2005 7:52 am PT
Review:  The game has alot of features and options so you can customise it to play how you want, The multiplayer 
 works great for me and theres almost never any lag. The game is just fun overall, anyone who's 
 into flight sims should get this game, it's a good game and I think most people who have this game 
 enjoy it and play it alot. It's kind of hard to get the hang of it at first but once you do the 
 missions correctly without skipping any objectives or anything, it's really rewarding. Overall, 
 the game is great, the graphics are great, the sound is good and it's very fun to play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fsurookie911
Rating: 4.8
Date: Jun 19, 2005 7:03 am PT
Review:  Im personally a big fan of Microsofts flight Sims but this game is just very sloppy and not very 
 stable. When I got this game in May of 2005 the first thing that happens after I install it is 
 it crashes. After I restart my computer I go ahead and crank up all the graphics settings because 
 im running a high-end computer. Even for a game made in 2002 the graphics are very bad. I could 
 go into more depth but let me just leave it at this, buy IL-2 forgotten battles. It is a much better 
 game better yet play it online that game has really fun multiplayer 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 19734739732876576485538515389630-elLOCOmutha
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 29, 2005 4:52 pm PT
Review:  This game is very fun and you will not be dissapointed in it at all. It might not please everyone 
 in the group but for what you get in the game it will not be a waste of your time.
  
  Some games you get and you just feel let down and ripped off well this game isnt one of those types. 
 I believe there will be a community for this game for some time to come and the support for it 
 will be around awhile also.
  
  The graphics and sound quality are great and wont be out of date for a long time. Overall you probably 
 will leave this on your computer and not uninstall it anytime soon.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: damonc
Rating: 4.2
Date: Dec 26, 2003 5:36 pm PT
Review:  Ok I was late getting this game and I need a refund. It took 20 minutes to load. The game play 
 was good but the time it took to load anything was horrible. I started it waited five minutes for 
 it to load then selected quick flight. I selected a dogfight with a p47 and waited five minutes 
 for the scenario to start. Shotdown one plane before crashing due to engine overheating. I then 
 searched for realism options turned off everything and tried again no kills -- typical defense 
 from the computer the enemy out turns you until you stall or get bored. But thats ok, I never professed 
 to be a good pilot the game was for my sons, who wanted it because they liked CFS2. Since their 
 8 and 6, technically too young for the game I have to learn the details and teach them to play. 
 Oops, this game is not intuitive at all. Setting up the joystick is the most fun. However, once 
 I got both joysticks setup up similar to the CFS2 the boys took off -- only to crash because of 
 the tail wheel lock ????. PLay resumed after setting them to invulnerable. Then it was time to 
 switch to multiplayer -- Oops, dang. The multiplayer spit out games that were in progress over 
 the net. Well that was easy I shutdown my cable modem so the boys could only see themselves, however, 
 twenty minutes later we were not connected to each other because the dumb game took 5 minutes to 
 connect and as young boys do the press cancel and it never recovers from cancel. Forget mutiplayer, 
 for get CFS3 it was back to CFS2 were the game was not written on a super, top of the line multi 
 processor with 4 gigabytes of video memory and full T3 network. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
