-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Commandos 2: Men of Courage
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/strategy/commandos2menofcourage/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Sep 28, 2001
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8.8
Critic Score: 8.5, 30 Review (s)
User Score: 8.8, 1,560 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Eidos Interactive
Developer: Pyro Studios
Genre: Real-Time Strategy
Date:     Sep 20, 2001 &raquo;  
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
It can be a difficult game, especially at first, but Commandos 2 truly evokes the intensity of World 
 War II that you've probably seen in film or on television. 

 The direct approach isn't always the best approach -- this concept lies at the heart of Commandos 
 2 just as it did with its predecessor, the innovative 1998 real-time tactical combat game that 
 mixed elements of stealth, action, and even puzzle-solving in a World War II setting. Spanish developer 
 Pyro Studios' visually stunning sequel takes the core gameplay of the original, adds some of the 
 features from the 1999 stand-alone expansion pack along with plenty of great new ideas, and ultimately 
 provides a highly challenging, sophisticated experience that's even better than the first. But 
 be warned -- Commandos 2 can be as intimidating as its premise makes it sound: You'll command a small 
 group of elite Allied operatives deep behind enemy lines to perform a series of important clandestine 
 missions. At every turn, your commandos will be avoiding the patrols of German or Japanese forces. 
 It can be a difficult game, especially at first, but Commandos 2 truly evokes the intensity of 
 the harrowing depictions of World War II that you've probably seen in film or on television.   
         Your commandos will engage in multiple high-priority missions.    

  Actually, the game clearly alludes to the movies that inspired it -- even the manual admits that 
 the game has more in common with fictional accounts of the war than with factual ones. If you're 
 familiar with classic World War II movies such as  The Guns of Navarone ,  Bridge on the River 
 Kwai , or even the more recent  Saving Private Ryan , then you'll easily catch the references to 
 these films in the game's various missions. As in these and other epic World War II movies, in 
 Commandos 2 you'll have to do such things as rescue Allied soldiers, sabotage powerful sea vessels, 
 assassinate key enemy officials, get your hands on important documents, and much more. The objectives 
 are plentiful and varied and the game will take you to a wide variety of real-world settings, but 
 the overall number of missions in Commandos 2 seems small: There are only 10 main missions in the 
 game. You must play through them all sequentially, even though they aren't necessarily related 
 to one another. In fact, the relative length and difficulty of each mission doesn't necessarily 
 increase from one mission to the next, either.   

  Make no mistake, though -- by any standards, all these missions are huge, and you'll typically spend 
 many hours trying to accomplish the laundry list of objectives in each one. There's also good incentive 
 to replay each mission, since a number of smaller bonus levels can be unlocked if you thoroughly 
 explore the main missions. And the game's two higher difficulty settings noticeably affect the 
 way enemy guards react, requiring you to take different paths to success. But before you can get 
 into the main missions, you must first get through two "tutorial" levels, which have to be the 
 most difficult tutorials ever put into a game. These smaller missions provide very little actual 
 tutorial -- instead, they take a sink-or-swim approach by dropping you straight into enemy territory, 
 leaving you to learn the hard way about the intricacies of the complex gameplay of Commandos 2. 
 This can make the first hours of play unnecessarily frustrating, so much so that some players may 
 be quickly turned off to the game. That's too bad, because Commandos 2 is well worth the effort 
 it takes to learn.           Each mission area is rendered in exceptional detail.     

  The colorful, memorable cast of characters at your disposal comes mostly from the previous Commandos 
 games and includes a powerful Green Beret; a deadly marine; a spy capable of disguising himself 
 as the enemy; a sapper, your demolitions expert; a mechanic who can commandeer enemy vehicles; 
 a master sniper; and even a seductive secret agent. New additions to the roster include a fleet-footed 
 thief and an unlikely bull terrier whose barking can distract your foes. You'll also join forces 
 with Allied troops whom you can control in many of the missions.   

  In the original Commandos game, each character had a limited, very specific set of skills -- for 
 example, only the Green Beret and the spy could actually move enemy victims' bodies so that other 
 guards wouldn't see them, which made these two the key players in most missions. In Commandos 2, 
 for the most part, each character has a wider variety of skills and is much more versatile -- for 
 example, most everyone can now move bodies out of sight. This gives you many more strategic options 
 during play and, for better or worse, eliminates much of the puzzlelike feel of the original game's 
 missions. The game's sole remaining puzzle element lies in the fact that you can't choose which 
 commandos to bring into a mission and can't choose their starting equipment -- you'll just have to 
 make do with what you get.    

 Though Commandos 2 has fewer situations requiring very specific solutions compared with the first 
 game, the gameplay itself is basically similar. As you approach each mission objective, you'll 
 have to take note of all the enemy guards standing between you and victory. There's no fog of war -- you 
 can spend lots of time just examining every square inch of the map from your godlike isometric 
 vantage point, observing enemy patrols and looking for openings or weaknesses. Mission objectives 
 generally aren't time sensitive, so you can afford to strategize at your leisure. And though you 
 can take missions at your own pace, the situations always get very tense whenever you're preparing 
 to strike. This constant buildup and release of tension is superbly maintained throughout the game, 
 making it addictive and often exhilarating to play.           Much of the action takes place in 
 closed, fully 3D interiors.    

  The key to finishing the missions lies in staying hidden while secretly eliminating guards that 
 bar your passage. You'll see enemy guards' line of sight represented with a sweeping colored cone -- using 
 the Tab key, you can either check the line of sight of one guard at a time or place a marker anywhere 
 on the map that will show you whether or not that point is visible to any guards. When possible, 
 you can run, walk, and crawl about, as well as swim and drive vehicles. You can climb ladders and 
 ledges. The thief can scale walls, the marine can remain underwater indefinitely, the sniper can 
 take aim from telephone poles, and the Green Beret can climb hand over hand across wires. All characters 
 can hug walls, which makes them less noticeable. You can eliminate guards in a variety of ways -- the 
 Green Beret's still adept at knifing them up close, while the marine has perfected throwing his 
 blade, making him perhaps the most lethal of his comrades. Most characters can now punch out guards, 
 who'll come to their senses later -- good thing you can tie them up, too. This more-humane approach 
 is rewarded at the end of each mission, where you'll be ranked in various categories based on your 
 performance.   

  You can't always just maneuver behind unassuming guards and whack them. Characters like the spy 
 come into play when there are far too many guards to handle. The spy and the seductress can divert 
 guards by making conversation -- but high-ranking officials may see through their disguises. All 
 characters can use any cigarette packs or wine bottles they find to bait their enemies into sheepishly 
 leaving their posts. Anyone can relieve an incapacitated guard of his firearm and any other goods 
 he might have on him, including the shirt off his back. You'll have even more tricks at your disposal. 
 For example, the sapper uses a wide variety of explosives, along with handy tools such as a wire 
 cutter and a mine detector. The marine has a grappling hook and his trusty portable boat aside 
 from his diving gear. The Green Beret still has his noise-making decoy device from Commandos and 
 can still dig himself underground, out of sight. The thief has some lock picks and an amazing pet 
 rat. All these characters can transfer their equipment amongst themselves, but some equipment -- for 
 instance, explosives -- can be used only by a particular specialist. Still, a character like the 
 thief might have a much easier time getting his hands on some so that the sapper can put it to 
 good use. All of this means you'll usually have a lot of options on how to proceed, although some 
 courses of action will be easier or more suitable than others.           The scenarios in Commandos 
 2 hearken to classic war movies.    

  Sneaking around isn't easy -- expect to be detected often. Since one wrong move or one loud noise 
 can mean you've blown your cover, loading saved games thus becomes a regular occurrence. Fortunately, 
 loading times are pretty fast -- probably in exchange for the program's whopping 2GB minimum install 
 size. Also, it's important to note that Commandos 2, at least on the normal difficulty level, is 
 more forgiving than the original game. For example, if one of your commandos loses all his health, 
 one of his friends can revive him with a medical kit. And enemies usually won't recognize you as 
 their foe right away if they happen to spot you from far off. You'll see them draw a bead on you 
 and you'll have a few moments to duck out of sight, which makes the game considerably less frustrating 
 and reduces how often you'll have to load saved games.   

  If you're identified as a foe, the alarm will usually sound and guards will swarm in, making success 
 virtually impossible. Perhaps not entirely impossible, though -- a brute-force approach can be fun 
 and even effective, as the enemies' own weapons are even deadlier in your commandos' hands. It's 
 a bit disappointing that guards won't fight back very intelligently and will walk straight into 
 kill zones in droves -- but the sheer number of guards you'll typically be up against means fighting 
 head-on simply isn't viable most of the time. Even when they're not shooting at you, the guards 
 can be fairly predictable and not altogether intelligent. This isn't really an issue -- being able 
 to roughly anticipate the outcome of your actions and the enemy's response is what makes Commandos 
 2 a strategy game rather than a crapshoot.    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (37 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Bane-LoneWolf
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 4, 2009 4:40 am PT
Review:  This game is a major step up as far as previous commandos games are concerned. There are 2 major 
 new characters i. e. Thief and Natasha, there are also characters like a pet dog and Simon, an abandoned 
 sailor on the Savo island, which are playable but only in one or two levels. The characters are 
 now 3D and the surroundings can be viewed from all the directions by changing the view. Also the 
 buildings no longer serve as a hiding place but action takes place there as well.
  The game is about 50 times as bigger as previous titles, with locations like Burma, China and a 
 few historical locations such as river Kwai and Eiffel tower. The game begins with a couple of 
 training missions where you get to have a feel of almost all the characters. There are 10 levels 
 and a bonus mission after every level which depends on collection of secrets. All the characters 
 of the previous games are present and are better than ever. I like this new character Thief a lot 
 because of his agility and ability to reach places where no other character can get to, the only 
 drawback is that he can't tie up the enemy soldiers after knocking them off which is I think a 
 stupid mistake on the part of game developers. Natasha is a spy who can use her charm and beauty 
 to seduce enemy soldiers and can lead them to death and they don't even resist. 
  The graphics are well polished and detailed as well; all the locations can be viewed from all the 
 directions which is a fresh aspect. The one thing I liked most about this game is its sound AMAZING 
 BACKGROUNG MUSIC it adds so much to the game play now let's concentrate on the game play mechanics 
 stealth is still your greatest weapon in this game... All the characters can wear enemy uniform 
 but they become recognized if you get too close to enemy soldiers as compared to Spy who can give 
 orders like changing their posts if he can get his hands on enemy's officer uniform... Killing 
 is bad, knocking and tying is good because points will be subtracted at the end of each level on 
 each kill. But it doesn't mean you don't have the license to kill, in fact weapons like flamethrower 
 is much fun to use 
  All the gamers who will be playing this for the first time will feel a bit difficult to get accustom 
 to the level of stealth which is a bit unforgiving at certain points but a good thing is that if 
 you are being noticed then there is no longer infinite number of enemy soldiers rushing out of 
 a single room like previous games, the number of enemy soldiers is constant  once you get accustomed 
 to the gameplay mechanics then it's not that hard game to beat 
  This was all about the goods of game, now lets concentrate on the draws of the game which are very 
 few though first thing that comes to mind is the unnecessary details at times like use of rope 
 ladders and bait fishes which are hardly ever used, which also means that u have to open the inventory 
 again and again lest u wanted to remember whole bunch of hotkeys other thing is the number of 
 times you have to reload the game because once you get discovered then it gets very difficult to 
 get things back to normal, one shot fired and all the enemies will rush to your location, and you 
 will be left with no choice but to reload the game also the inventory is a bit smaller when one 
 takes into the consideration the level of details of the objects in this game apart from these 
 minor flaws (I don't think you can even call them flaws) it's a very addictive and immersive game 
 experience and strongly recommended for all those who love strategy games
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: mircea_calarasu
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 3, 2008 9:51 am PT
Review:  General/Summary:
  Commandos 2 is a game with some very cool and innovative ideas, a complex and deep control scheme, 
 with interesting and fun missions. The core gameplay itself is absolutely superb, as is evident 
 from the reactions of the PC version of this game. Now that it has been ported over to the PS2, 
 it gives us consolers a chance to play a game in a genre that is rather scarce on a console ... 
 the real-time strategy genre. (No, Commandos2 is not a Starcraft-type real-time strategy, but it 
 has some similarities.) Commandos 2 was going to bring something new the PS2, something different 
 from the other games currently available. The programmers ported over all the gameplay elements 
 from the PC game, so that we wouldn't be getting any cut corners. And for that, I applaud the developers. 
 I mean, this game is very complex and is the type of game that consolers don't traditionally go 
 for. So it shows guts on the part of the developers to bring the port to us. Unfortunately, something 
 went wrong during the programming. Whether it is the limitations of the PS2 or the inefficient 
 programming of the game, the final product has some serious flaws, one of them being so bad it 
 kills this game. I've seen some amazing games on the PS2 that have much shorter load times, so 
 I'm inclined to think that the game's flaws are not due to the PS2's "limitations", but rather 
 the programming of the game itself. Get ready to wait, and wait, and wait.
  
  Gameplay:
  Underneath the horrible loading times flaw, Commandos 2 is an amazing game with very deep gameplay. 
 The game is played from a third person perspective, with the camera up in the sky looking down 
 on the level. If you've ever played a Diablo game, then you'll know what the camera is like. And, 
 one of the coolest parts of the gameplay is the ability to pan the camera around the entire level, 
 allowing you to get an overview of all your objectives and enemies. Panning the level is essential 
 because you'll need to plan your next movement and interactions keeping in mind what lies further 
 ahead. I. e. what route you plan to take will affect your choices in the future, so plan carefully. 
 You have at your disposal a group of 8 human Commandos and a dog. With each mission you will have 
 a unique group of several commandos to use, or maybe just one commando to start a mission. (The 
 commandos are preselected for each mission.) There are several actions each commando has in common, 
 and some actions that are unique for each commando. Learning which man (or woman) to use in what 
 situation is a lot of the game's strategy.
  
  Each commando has an inventory for which he/she carries weapons and supplies. Commandos can use 
 a large variety of items. For example: weapons, health kits, narcotic drugs, mine detectors, explosives, 
 lockpicks, wire cutters, wench and cable, decoys, shovels, etc. So, there are a wide variety of 
 means to achieve your goals. And many of these items can implemented together. For example, you 
 can dig a hole in the ground outside of a doorway, then use your decoy to lure the enemy out, by 
 which he then falls in the hole. Or you can combine a tripwire with a mine and leave it in an area 
 you know the enemy patrols. Put narcotics in the wine and leave it in front of a patrolling enemy's 
 position. He will then pick it up, drink it, and sleep forever.
  
  Enemy AI is really good in Commandos 2. The enemies have preset patrol paths and vision limitations. 
 One of the most important parts of the game is the ability to highlight an enemy and see their 
 cone of vision. Each enemy has an outer part of the vision cone by which you cannot be seen if 
 you are crawling or wearing the enemy's uniform, as well as an inner part of the vision cone in 
 which they can spot you quickly. Even little icons will appear above the enemy's head to give you 
 a visual clue of whether they are suspicious or alerted to you. Also, enemies can be alerted to 
 your sound if you are running or if you use a weapon nearby. If spotted, the enemies will call 
 for backup or sound the alarm, and then you've got a group of them coming after you. Even if you 
 run, they will systematically search for you. There is a limit to their searching, so you survive 
 if you find a good enough hiding spot till the alarm is over. (The enemy's reactions are kinda 
 similar to what we saw in Metal Gear Solid 2.) Still, being spotted by the enemy spells death a 
 lot of the time. However, you can use the enemy's alarm and search teams to your advantage. Set 
 up traps, like mines and tripwires, in the areas you think the enemy will run past in the event 
 of an alarm. Then make a noise or shoot a nearby enemy, and watch the fun unfold as they come out 
 looking for you ... boom! Overall the enemy AI is pretty good, but not perfect. There are limitations 
 to the AI, but that is intentionally done to allow for strategic movement of your commandos. They 
 may not be the smartest enemies, but the AI balances very well with the gameplay.
  
  There are many situations where you will want to use 2 or more commandos as a team effort to achieve 
 a goal. Often times you can use one guy to lure the enemy out, and then switch to the second guy 
 who will kill or knock out the lured enemy. Or even simpler, you can command your gunman to stay 
 in attack mode, so that when you are luring out the enemy with the decoy man, the gunman will automatically 
 shoot at the enemy (without the need for you to quickly switch back to the gunman) . Sometimes you 
 will send a guy ahead to climb inside a building and unlock it from the inside. One time, I sent 
 the thief into an area where my sniper could not reach. I had the thief steal more sniper rifle 
 ammo and bring it back, by which I then picked off the distant enemies with my sniper. There are 
 a lot of creative ways you can use your commandos as a team, and this is one of the game's strongest 
 aspects.
  
  The freedom the game allows is a very strong part of the gameplay as well. Each mission can be 
 played in a variety of ways, although some choices will result in a dire situation. So, make your 
 own choices, but choose wisely. The game does require a lot of planning and stealth, which does 
 allow you move at your own pace. In fact, learning how to eliminate enemies with stealth will become 
 your best approach in many situations. This almost creates an air of suspense as you anticipate 
 what would happen if you choose a particular route
  
  In addition to all those previously mentioned gameplay strengths, Commandos 2 sports some very 
 impressive levels. The first 2 missions are small, but after that the levels get quite large. The 
 levels are full of barracks, buildings, walkways, guard posts, hiding places, telephone or electrical 
 wires, fences, barb wire, mine fields, bodies of water (yes, you can even swim on top of and travel 
 underwater) , large courtyards, vehicles, etc. And the levels are not barren. No, they are filled 
 with loads of the objects, creating multiple complex pathways to take. Buildings are multileveled, 
 with catwalks, stairways, and rooftops to traverse. There are areas you can even scale up the sides 
 of buildings, or can use a grappling hook and climb up the side. And, to top this all off, most 
 of the buildings can be entered and contain multiple rooms. One of the coolest aspects of the level 
 design is he ability to look through a window to see the enemies before entering. Truly, the level 
 designs are remarkable and balance well with the other aspects of gameplay.
  
  Commandos 2 has a very steep learning curve and will take several hours to really get the controls 
 down. Every single button on the dualshock 2 is used, and you will need to be able to use it fluidly 
 as the action is all real-time. So an investment of time will be needed before the controls become 
 fluid. Fortunately, the game provides a very good tutorial and 2 training missions, so that even 
 gamers who rent with no instruction manual should be able to play it. Considering the sheer number 
 of actions your commandos can perform, the controls are mapped quite well to the dualshock 2. Also, 
 the game is very hard, requiring you to move and act at specific times when the enemy is not looking. 
 The game is designed to be very hard and thus you feel rewarded when you complete a level. But, 
 the game also allows you to save at any time, thus you do not have to replay the entire level if 
 you die. And you will die or fail a lot in each mission. Reloading 50 times or more is not uncommon 
 in the 3rd mission and beyond. I have no problem with the difficulty level. Dying or failing simply 
 means you have to re-plan you approach and learn from your mistakes. No, the difficulty of the 
 game is not the problem.
  
  So up till now, I have talked about a game that does many, many things right. Unfortunately, there 
 is one major flaw that negates all the positives of the game and brings the gameplay to a screeching 
 halt. I'm talking about the load times. Playing the first two missions is not a problem as these 
 training missions are small. But when you get to the third mission, you'll see the writing on the 
 wall. The game will take anywhere from 40 seconds to 72 seconds (yes, I timed the loading) to load 
 a mission. But this by itself would not be a problem. No, the problem arises when you reload from 
 your last save game.... Another 40 - 72 seconds to reload. Yes, the game actually wipes the memory 
 clear and reloads everything from scratch each time you want to reload. But wait a minute... the 
 game's level is already in memory, right? Why does the game have to reload the entire level? I've 
 seen many PS2 games that simply use the code already in memory to go back to the start of a level 
 or start you at your last save spot. Nope, not with Commmandos 2. And since the game is designed 
 to be hard, you'll be restarting 50 times or more per mission. Now add that up. Now do you see 
 the problem? Each time you make a little mistake you are "punished" by watching a load screen for 
 a minute. There were times I was actually watching the load screen as much as I was playing. At 
 first, I was able to stomach the load times. But after repeatedly long load times, it really started 
 to get irritating. Then, several hours later it started angering me. It really breaks up the action 
 of the game and kills a lot of the game's underlying fun. I stubbornly forced myself to plow through 
 several of the missions beyond the training levels, but after a while I just though, "What's the 
 point?" To complete the entire game, I would end up spending several hours, yes hours, watching 
 load screens. And the load screen is the same dull screen over and over. At least give me some 
 interesting screen shots. Or, like the new Test Drive game, you could play pong while the game 
 loads. None of that. So, if you want to play this game on the PS2, make sure you have some activity 
 to do while you wait and wait and wait for the load screens. Here are a list of things I did while 
 waiting for the game to load:
  - Play ball with my dog
  - Go to the bathroom.
  - Watch my friend waste the other cars with his Ford GT concept car on Sega GT 2002.
  - Write 
 this review. Yes, portions of this very review were written while waiting to load the game.
  - Pay my bills
  - Calculate the distance from Jupiter to the sun. (This one took 2 load times 
 to get)
  
  And the load times are not the only problem with this ported game. Overall, everything in the game 
 is sluggish. When the alarm sounds, the framerate goes way down. There is a significant delay when 
 rotating the camera, and this often times left me disoriented. There is a delay when trying to 
 select my next commando ... and this delay occurs while all the other action is still going and 
 can result in one of your commandos getting shot while waiting for the game to finally get to the 
 character selection screen. Also, selecting a new commando will often result in the game arbitrarily 
 rotating the camera 90 degrees ... talk about disorienting. Panning of the camera around the level 
 is sluggish and delayed. It just feels like the levels are almost too large to fit into the PS2's 
 memory (I'm talking about the 3rd level and beyond, not the training missions.) Once again, I don't 
 think this is a limitation of the PS2's hardware. Look at the games Twisted Metal Black and Dave 
 Mirra 2. These are games with absolutely gigantic levels (certainly more objects than the levels 
 in Commandos 2) and they have almost no slowdown or lagging. So, I have seen examples of what the 
 PS2 can do. Commandos 2 looks like inefficient programming on the part of the game designers. I 
 know I sound like I'm being critical, and I don't program games ... but I know that, as a gamer, 
 these problems are annoying and detract from the gameplay.
  
  The bottom line is that the load times seen in Commandos 2 are unacceptable for a next generation 
 console. I have seen examples of other games with bigger levels and faster load times, so I know 
 it ain't the hardware. I guess the worst part about the load times is that it gives me a lot of 
 time to think about all those other games I'D RATHER BE PLAYING INSTEAD. If the load times were 
 acceptable, I would rate the game a 4 or 5 ... but the load times are actually that annoying, at 
 least to me.
  
  Graphics:
  There are a lot of objects in the levels. It's just that the objects and characters are not made 
 with enough polygons and not enough detail. Thus, a lot of things end up looking blurry. This can 
 make for some confusing gaming since sometimes you cannot tell what you are looking at and where 
 the walkways in between buildings may exist. The icons that appear in your character selections 
 menus are the worst. These icons are so blurry and un-detailed that you really cannot tell what 
 you are selecting. I have to look to the game's manual to "interpret" what the icon is that I am 
 looking at. And the manual does not list all the icons in one area, so it becomes a searching game 
 to find it. In many ways, learning to read these icons is like learning another language. Combine 
 all this with the framerate slowdown, and you have some mediocre graphics. But the minor graphical 
 flaws can be overlooked. The graphics ain't the problem ... it's the load times.
  
  Sound:
  There is speech, sound effects, and background music. The alarm sound effect is like 
 a 5 second sound bite repeated at nauseum. All your commandos say little confirmations when you 
 issue them orders. Different sounds when crawling verses walking verses running. Nothing that really 
 stands out, but still a solid effort. The sound is good enough for the game. The sound ain't the 
 problem ... we know what the real problem is. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vengeance911
Rating: 9.1
Date: Sep 27, 2007 5:20 am PT
Review:  Commandos 2 is really a great game. It's gotta be the best in the series, and sets really high 
 standards that it's sequels (if any) will have to meet. To begin with, it's got some really good 
 graphics, and sound effects. The frame rate rarely drops, and the game is technically sound. But 
 thats not all that makes this game immersive. It is tough to master, especially for novice players, 
 so my message to them is that they should not give up on it early. The challenges are innovative, 
 and with so many objectives and numerous ways to get past the enemies, this game will have you 
 going through the levels over and over again. Also, the AI are relatively intelligent, making surprises 
 that come your way frequent and enjoyable. But the best part of this game is how you must use the 
 right character at the right time, as all of them are unique, and no one can exactly make up for 
 the other. Combining stealth and puzzle with action and thrill, this game has all the makings of 
 an instant hit. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hardheartman
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 11, 2007 4:18 am PT
Review:  Controling a team of elite soldiers. You have a team of nine charecters: The Green Baret, The Spy, The 
 Sapper, The Diver, The Driver, The Sniper, Natasha (a seductress) , The Thief and finaly but not last 
 a dog - Whiskey. And you have the arsenal of differant types of weapons like: The sniper rifle, The 
 rifle, Syringe, Knife, Machine gun MP40, Pistol and the Granade. You can also travel by land and sea. You 
 will travel fro Europe to Asia fighting against the German and Japan.
  Great tunes and sound effects. Some really fantastic missions which is all has great story background. 
 There are a huge amount of gadgets and weapons to pick up, and characters to chouse from. graphics 
 arent fantastic but enough for this game.
  overall it's a good game if you like this genre. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: noneofthese2006
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 7, 2007 11:41 pm PT
Review:  Interact like never before with the environment: Steal enemy uniforms and weapons, climb poles, 
 swing from cables, swim, utilize vehicles, and climb in/out of buildings, ships, planes.
  
  Control nine commandos: Including a thief, and even a dog.
  
  Rotate the environment 360&deg;, 
 move seamlessly in/out of buildings, submarines, planes and under water, and zoom in/out on the 
 environment.
  
  Ten missions spanning nine different environments in night and day with realistic weather effects.
 
  
  New vehicles and weapons: including jeeps, tanks, trucks, ships, bazookas and flame-throwers
 
  
  
  Completing 100 wordsCompleting 100 wordsCompleting 100 wordsCompleting 100 wordsCompleting 100 
 wordsCompleting 100 wordsCompleting 100 wordsCompleting 100 wordsCompleting 100 wordsCompleting 
 100 wordsCompleting 100 wordsCompleting 100 wordsCompleting 100 wordsCompleting 100 wordsCompleting 
 100 wordsCompleting 100 wordsCompleting 100 wordsCompleting 100 wordsCompleting 100 wordsCompleting 
 100 wordsCompleting 100 wordsCompleting 100 wordsCompleting 100 wordsCompleting 100 words. More 
 than 100 words Complete: D 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nutcrackr
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jul 28, 2007 7:31 am PT
Review:  Commandos 2 puts you in control of a team of highly trained and varied squad members. The commandos 
 in your squad have a different set of abilities which changes how you can use each of them, e. g. 
 the spy can use officer uniforms to distract soldiers while the green beret can bury himself and 
 lie in wait for an ambush. These differences will often promote the coordination of several members 
 to complete objectives. Not only does your team have variation but the large levels you face are 
 very open and also contain secondary objectives. Certain objectives like rescuing sailors must 
 be completed but how you go about getting to them is up to you. The commando movements are controlled 
 in an isometric view that can be zoomed in and out. Most of the level design is high quality with 
 wildlife and plenty of natural cover. Being able to sneak a peek into a window and see a patrolling 
 guard in 3D before making an entrance is most satisfying, same goes for setting off traps.
  
  The gameplay itself may break down into you sneaking under cover and passed the vision cones 
 of the enemy, or maybe stabbing enemies from the back might be more satisfying. Grenades and rifles 
 could be more your style but prepare yourself as although the quickest this is the hardest way 
 to complete the missions. There are even more challenges when it comes to dealing with the enemy 
 bodies. A gagged soldier is not going anywhere but should another stumble upon him he will be freed 
 and you now have two angry patrolling guards destroying your hard work. Shooting will often alert 
 nearby guards and dead bodies lying around will prompt others to search the area more thoroughly. 
 The game is challenging and it requires good decision making which you will learn during the game, 
 not noticing a lone solider could mean mission end when 10 enemy soldiers come rushing towards 
 you as alarm bells ring out. The game does reward patience and a bit of forethought as many will 
 soon realize, but quick save will be used frequently. The learning curve for the game and each 
 level feels right although starting from scratch can be quite hard.
  
  There are cut scenes between missions which are actually very nicely done in pre-rendered cg and 
 they link missions together, the art for each of the levels is high and the game looks fairly good 
 for an old title. The game also has its share of funny moments due to the dynamic gameplay, varying 
 from fleeing naked soldiers, nazis getting worried over noisy penguins and luring Japanese soldiers 
 into the jaws of crocodiles. Commandos 2 may be almost 6 years old but that doesnt prevent it 
 from being an enjoyable strategy game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: elwhash
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jul 26, 2007 3:44 am PT
Review:  I'm really never see the revolution on that game before i had play all parts of commandos and that 
 part it most i like it everything tactical and strategy
  
  as always i will start with good things at game
  1- the game from first mission until the last 
 mission need special people who's know that game not for only cross missions without thinking how 
 .
  2- storage of all commandos and especial ability for each one make everyone have his duty and i 
 can't depend on one 3- the rate of silent it show to us how strategy u r and how u do things carefully 
 like the books says
  4- make all commandos have enemy guns even in some missions u don't want to use them for silent 
 rate be high but some other missions u don't have anyway to stop not to use them
  5- it's very nature when commandos be out side in cold and be under water it's amazing
  
  the 
 bad thing it's really short game not many missions i have to play it twice to have fun 
::::::

::::::
UserName: net_mugger
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 13, 2007 2:37 am PT
Review:  Umm... how should I say this... Commandos 2 is like a huge gap between commandos 1. They may look 
 like the same game because of the characters and the enviroment. But, the gameplay is a lot more 
 better, the graphics are no comment and well the missions are long and enjoyable. Instead of commandos 
 1 missions that are kind of short, small maps but very hard to finish. I admit that commandos 1 
 is much harder than this.
  
  Well about the other things in the game... you have a group of commandos that vary from mission 
 to mission... only in the last mission you have all of them together. There is the Green Berret 
 that is the strongest of them and uses knives to take his enemies from the back (mostly: P) , the 
 second is the sniper... here you can guess alone what he does (so he has a cool sniper weapon with 
 wich he can take enemies from far distances) , the third is the seal... well this guy can throw with 
 knives (and thats cool) he can also use a diving suit to stay underwater as much as he likes-this 
 is my fav: P-the forth is the sapper, this guy is a bombing machine, a destroyer of tanks, vehicles 
 and buildings, he also deactivates mines and cuts the fence and last but not least he can fire 
 from the tank (only he can do that!) , the 5th is umm I forgot... I think the driver... well he can 
 drive any vehicle and he sets up traps... he can throw molotov and poison bottles. The 6th is the 
 spy... this old man can disguise himself in any suit he likes and the enemy won't know he's an intruder (this 
 excepts enemy officers) , and he also has a lethal injection that he can apply to whomever he wants... the 
 7th is natasha.... another spy... but no injection: P the 8th is the thief, this little guy can climb 
 walls, wires, he can pickpoket items and that kind of things. The last commando is whisky a dog 
 that u use to carry items from a commando to another. No one will atack the cute mut: P
  
  Okay if you haven't played the game I wish you luck! If you did play it good for you;) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KingLim
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jun 25, 2007 4:37 pm PT
Review:  Commandos 2 is the first of the series I've played and I really enjoyed it! It combines a very 
 intricate stealth factor into a fairly large scale strategy map that fits perfectly together. One 
 interesting factor to this unique gameplay style should be the line-of-sight detection system that 
 contributes to the addictive stealth combat that creates so much entertainment for me.
  
  For players who like the feel of commanding units on a map (much like an RTS style) and who fancy 
 a bit of third-person stealth espionage, then this might just be the game for you! It may be a 
 little hard for beginners of this hybrid since it's a mix between two very different genres in 
 which sometimes it requires your focus on one-on-one stealth strategy and big scale maneuvering 
 of units for combat concurrently. But with a little practice, the addictive gameplay will soon 
 make you forgive those trial and error moments that may dishearten you along the way.
  
  Even if it's an old game, it features lush and beautiful 3D landscapes and excellent soundtracks 
 that still has its charm till today. Also, like the old Command &amp; Conquer series, Commandos 
 2 contains chunks of cinematics for the added reward of completing those intensive missions.
  
  KingLim 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bluesteelMeGaSE
Rating: 9.1
Date: May 14, 2007 8:47 pm PT
Review:  Commandos 2: Men of Courage is a very well refined title in the series. If you've played it's predecessors, 
 you'd know that this game takes the best elements of both and mixes it's own new features to make 
 what made the sequel the most epic in the series. The game is by no means, a cakewalk. Each mission 
 challenges you, even the tutorials, but unless you have little patience or cannot understand how 
 to resolve a predicament, this game is not for you.
  
  World War 2 games are often made, and at least half of them are mediocre at best. Commandos 2 is 
 not one of them, and for many good reasons. It is original and presents itself like a new and exciting 
 art form. The intensity, realism, depth, and the presentation overall of the image of World War 
 2 at hand here is enough to deserve a place on one's game shelf. All of the missions are closely 
 based off of original campaigns or locations, but are not entirely accurate, though this is mostly 
 to replace some characters or elements with its own (perhaps a copyright reason) . Despite that, 
 you can't help but think that this whole game was choreographed and well-written.
  
  The real shining point of this title is in it's complexity, pacing, and challenge. As mentioned 
 before, if you cannot handle the requirement of patience, or you can't get around a predicament 
 or incident in a video-game, then Commandos 2 is not for you. Either way, the challenge comes in 
 form of each level. Enemies are on their very brink of noticing you at times while patrolling their 
 many tap spots. You are always vastly outnumbered in each level as the Nazi war regime conducts 
 it's vile projects and plans in every level. Like the predecessors, the game presents different 
 ways in which to complete a mission, by presenting you with characters with unique abilities, or 
 inferior qualities to one or another. The Spy is the most readily used character who can truly 
 and effectively infiltrate enemy camps, though the commanders and Gestapo can easily see through 
 his disguise. The Green Beret is the bear of the squad, as he is strong, durable, can take more 
 damage than the others, and is perhaps the most versatile man of the Commandos. Two new characters 
 are introduced; the Thief, who can sneak into enemy locations and use his effective lockpick tool, 
 and the Dog, who is never targeted by the enemy though can provide distractions and can actually 
 store some inventory.
  
  Controls for this game are complex. You'll really need to master your keyboard, and it may take 
 searching the internet to learn of perhaps a dozen of the commands that the game has in order to 
 get yourself used to them. If you can master the controls, you can master the game. You also need 
 to be careful what controls to use, as the wrong move can either cause a mission to suddenly end 
 in the enemy's favor, or life will be a lot harder for you. Otherwise, you may just lose a needed 
 object, or a helpful one, though not all objects or items are mandatory to acquire.
  
  One of the game's strongest offerings is it's audio. Music is unique to each campaign level, although 
 the bonus missions may borrow tracks from other levels. The theme of the music is obviously suitable 
 for the era of which the game depicts. The Asian theater levels, however, somewhat stray from the 
 aforementioned theme, but are none-the-less enjoyable. Commandos 2: Men of Courage does reward 
 the player with bonuses, or awards. You gain higher rankings based on your performance in each 
 level, which is something that you should keep at your highest. Medals are earned for beating a 
 level as well. For the players who are better at investigating each cabinet, drawer, or storage 
 box, etc., bonus missions may be offered to you after you complete each campaign mission. One complaint 
 goes towards the bonus missions on the hardest difficulty, as the second bonus mission is timed 
 and you lose if you do not complete the humongous circuit within a two minute time period; and 
 you cannot proceed to the next level without a work-around.
  
  The game is not without flaws, however. The original build that came with the game is filled with 
 bugs, and can crash often. This can be resolved with a patch that virtually diminishes all chances 
 of the game inopportunely crashing on you. Due to the recommended patch, the bugs are not completely 
 diminished themselves. Enemies may rarely, but you will know when, walk back to a location after 
 being tied and hidden in a hiding spot. During the battle sequences in a few of the levels, all 
 of the hidden enemies (if not dead) are somewhat freed, but are not visible and cannot ever be 
 killed, though they are completely harmless. The game has an exploitable control scheme where you 
 can execute many moves faster than they should be done, such as when you're defusing an Anti-Personnel 
 Mine, or sometimes when you're lock picking a locked box. Yet the positive things of this game 
 make it a much better game than it could've been should it have been a bit worse. It is original, 
 it presents itself like an intense war movie, and is challenging but not all that much frustrating. 
 However, it will keep you busy for quite a long time, especially if you avoid the temptation to 
 cheat (if you cheat or want to cheat, then why did/would you get this game? You would ruin the 
 fun and the satisfaction) , and if you want to get the highest rank; on all difficulties. All in 
 all, this is a well-made World War II game that let's you define the course of war in each exciting 
 but challenging mission. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: anniss1990
Rating: 8.1
Date: Mar 20, 2007 2:32 am PT
Review:  The best Commandos in the Commandos series!!! World War 2 games are 100% changed after the coming 
 of this game, it gave the players the exact point of view they wanted it. Controling a team of 
 elite soldiers. You have a team of nine charecters: The Green Baret, The Spy, The Sapper, The Diver, The 
 Driver, The Sniper, Natasha (a seductress) , The Thief and finaly but not last a dog - Whiskey. And you 
 have the arsenal of differant types of weapons like: The sniper rifle, The rifle, Syringe, Knife, Machine 
 gun MP40, Pistol and the Granade. You can also travel by land and sea. You will travel fro Europe 
 to Asia fighting against the German and Japan. This elite team is enough of defeating the German 
 Army and prevanting the conquering of the world.
  Wish you fun playing this game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ruls28
Rating: 9.2
Date: Dec 7, 2006 10:58 am PT
Review:  I played Commandos 1, and the differences are: Better graphics (way better graphics) , commandos can 
 do what they couldn't do in BEL (anybody except Whiskey can drive a vehicle not just the driver) , there 
 are three more commandos Natasha, the Thief and Whiskey (introduced in Night of the Wolves mission) , When 
 Commandos enter buildings, you can see in them (like walk around, go upstairs or a commando can shoot 
 out of a window) , there are new voices and finally cutscenes have arrived!, the spy can wear almost 
 any uniform, every commando except Whiskey has a knapsack view, where you can exchange items from 
 one commando to another or steal enemy guns and uniform if you have captured or killed him, you 
 can now swim underwater with the diver and the thief, all the other commandos except Whiskey can 
 now swim (just on the surface, not underwater, just the thief and the diver can) and you can control 
 the Allies (the Americans)
  
  What makes this one more challenging is: a harder AI, if you are in the snow ,you should then wear 
 something warm, if the diver is underwater, he should wear his diving suit, every commando except 
 Whiskey can wear an enemy uniform but only temporarely (you must collect more of the same uniform 
 and add to the existing one with uniform points (little shirt icon next to the uniform) until the 
 one that it came from's points reaches 30) , the spy is the only commando that can wear it as long 
 as he likes.
  
  But that's what makes a realtime strategy so fun, right?
  
  I love strategy/realtime strategy games, and commandos is my favourite!
  
  The only thing that 
 is confusing (if you played Behind enmey lines) is that the controls have changed, like the action 
 key must be pressed with shift, but I quickly adapted to it!
  
  You should first borrow it from a friend or rent it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BlackGoofy
Rating: 9.3
Date: Oct 17, 2006 12:03 pm PT
Review:  Surprisingly good, why? because you maybe wouldn't expect much of the third in the Commando series, 
 or would yah? well either yes or no both will probably say that Commandos 2 is a wonderfull game, 
 full of hard action, explosions and.... stealth... No it's not like Splintercell a 3D game where 
 you're one person doing very cool missions and creeping in the shadows, no, Commandos 2 is not 
 like that at all.
  In this game, you don't creep into shadows and your not just one person, but 9! well, euhm, the 
 ninth is actually or a dog or an American ally.
  The Commandos are: The Green Beret (Butcher) -&gt; strong guy with a knife and a hard fist, the 
 Sniper (Duke) -&gt; the sniper dude, the Diver (Fins) -&gt; the guy that operates from underneath you, 
 under water and trows knifes as silent kills, the Sapper (Fireman) -&gt; sets bombs, destroys tanks, 
 blows up silos and trows grenades, nothing stealth about him :P The Driver-&gt; he is excellent 
 in setting up traps and takes out his enemy's the stealthly way, as you can see, he also drives 
 all kinds of vehicles The Spy (Frenchy) -&gt; The spy is an commando that is unable of not being 
 used so handy, he dresses up in the clothes of the enemy and orders them to look in different directions 
 as when your men going, The pretty Girl-&gt; only used in two or three missions but extremely handy, 
 she's also able of clothing in enemy clothes and distracts enemy or temptates them with her beauty, 
 last commando but deffinitly not least is the Thief (Lupin) -&gt; which is the very most fast commando 
 and is able to climb up buildings.
  
  Things that are specially better in Commandos 2 then in the first one (s) is that every commando 
 except for the Spy is able to knock out enemy's, The Spy however is able to bind the enemy's, as 
 all the other commandos except for The Thief.
  
  As you can see, the game is about puzzling, stealthly planning, taking out enemy's one by one, and 
 completing your mission this way.
  
  If you've never played a Commando game before I do however reccomend you to first play Behind Enemy 
 Lines or Beyond The Call of Duty, to get in with the game genre and to see how Commandos 2 is better 
 then the first two.
  
  Al together this game is a reccomendation worth for sure, you've gotta have patience and a good 
 mind for this game....
  
  I enjoyed it nearly every second I played it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cerberussian
Rating: 8.8
Date: Oct 10, 2006 2:54 am PT
Review:  I, as one who love all commandos games, played all of them and finished 3/4 of them, I think this 
 is the most enjoyable. I have played it from beginning quite few times and every time i had no 
 less fun than the first time.
  
  Good game play dynamic, good set of options to complete each objectives, good graphic effects, 
 nice variety of characters to choose from with different unique set of gameplay options, good sound 
 and good atmosphere overall.
  
  Recommend not only for fans of commandos games but also for this who want to try out unique, in 
 my opinion, game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 7540
Rating: 7
Date: Oct 7, 2006 1:48 am PT
Review:  Commandos 2 is a bit sloppy, actually. It has the same gameplay as the Sims. You create and basically 
 control your own army. Getting somewhere? I've seen rip-off's like this a while back now and it 
 hasn't changed that much. Cool graphics only drive this rather poor take on of the create-your-own-thingamaboby 
 genre. Looking on the bright side, the controls aren't too bad, if you can get past the bad camera, 
 and the graphics are crisp clear. There is little enjoyment in this movie but nothing makes it 
 purely a game . In the end, it's all about strategy that can be found on a simple board game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hub0
Rating: 8.8
Date: Sep 23, 2006 7:21 pm PT
Review:  The first Commando is way too hard and has no space for extra stuffs. Usually you find youself 
 with nothing but a few items in your members' backpack that will be eventually inevitably used 
 up. But Commando 2 is totoally different, it's revolutionary in it's own right.
  First the new features, we've got some new charactors, the thief is probably the most useful one. 
 And some new skills, different charctors can perform different actions while most of them can still 
 knock enemies out and use standard weapons. But things like knife can only be used by specific 
 charactors. So your charactors will get the job done as long as you don't get them killed. And 
 believe me, you get killed very often here. Lots of things can kill you, everything from getting 
 shot to being blown up by a land-mine, or maybe fall to your death or drowning...
  The game if very realistic both in its gameplay and the actual look, and now all charactors have 
 a backpack that can hold anything. If your sapper can't get the rocket launcher, tell your other 
 men to get it for him, as long as there is enough space in the back pack. That something the first 
 game didn't do and should have done.
  The gameplay is way more flexible, you can enter houses, climb ladders, hide under stuffs. And 
 all your charactors can swim and dive underwater now, but only the diver can use the diving suit 
 and go underwater for unlimited time. There's actually a diving sequance in the game that's really 
 cool.
  The game is hard, no doubt, the very first mission you'll face pits you against literatly 100 soldiers. 
 And if you're not careful, they'll get you dead. So do save and load often, although unlike in 
 the first game where you get spotted immediately and get killed very fast, here if you get spotted 
 you can choose to run away as fast as you can and hide somewhere until the alarm wears off, so 
 that adds the realism to the game and makes the game a tinsy winsy bit more forgiving. But it's 
 still hard...
  Watch your enemies patrol path, know your missions, know your men, understand their skills, know 
 the map, plan your stealth attacks, explore the area, and don't die. That's what the game's all 
 about.... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BIBLEMAN3
Rating: 8.8
Date: Aug 4, 2006 9:52 pm PT
Review:  Very good game with the best graphics of world war two it's the best one in 
  
  The series right next to the thrid one because it has a lot cool things like 
  
  more characters, 
 levels Objectives and all kinds of weapons. 
  
  When you play a mission theres one Thing that you have to do when you 
  
  get far in it is 
 save often. The level Scenery is very well made like the bridge 
  
  on river kwai, the aifle tower. I also like the characters because they all have 
  
  their 
 skills for things like Inferno (Sapper) is good at setting up bombs 
  
  Spooky (Spy) is good at disguising himself Duke (Sniper) is good at 
  
  shooting at enemies 
 far away or on a roof and Tiny (Green Beret) is good at 
  
  slaughtering enemies. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NightFalcon662
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jul 19, 2006 3:05 pm PT
Review:  The World War 2 strategy series Commandos is well respected and has been known to be one of the 
 more difficult series around, if not the toughest in the strategy genre at least. As predicted, 
 the recently released Commandos Strike Force has helped take a turn for the worse in the series, 
 and the game is mainly a failure due to Eidos giving Pyro an unfair and unreasonably low budget 
 in the creation of the game. The first two Commandos games were great, but only opened up the franchise. 
 If youre pondering on which game to get in the series, you should get Commandos 2: Men of Courage, 
 because without argument it is agreed that it is the best.
  
  Commandos 2 continues with the same gameplay and manner of the last few games. However, Commandos 
 2 highly matures and evolves the skills and abilities and usefulness of each of the Commandos, 
 aiming towards a realism sort of manner. For example, instead of only The Diver being able to tread 
 water in the game as in the past few series, all nine commandos will now be able to swim. Each 
 Commando in the game has his or her special skills, whether it's defusing mines, knowing how to 
 make the best of enemy uniform, or being able to know how to make deadly use of a sniper rifle, 
 most players will have a favorite commando and will tend to use them the most in the game. Most 
 of the commandos are able to fire upon the enemy with at least one type of weapon, which is the 
 definitely the most important thing because you would not want to have a commando on your side 
 that cannot fight. Since as in the last few games including this one there is a particular emphasis 
 in stealth, you would not want to barge in with your nine commandos and begin firing upon enemy 
 soldiers as you wouldn't expect to stay alive. You'll actually be more knocking out enemy troops 
 with your hands and tieing them up and hiding them then taking out your machine gun and wildly 
 firing upon soldiers. Each mission has a series of objectives to be completed. In some missions 
 when one event occurs another objective will open up. Each of the missions wildly differs from 
 each other. One mission can be on the cold and snowy artic while the other can be in a humid jungle. 
 Enough has been said about the gameplay, for you should know that taking down enemies without being 
 alerted and completing objectives in this game is very well easier said then done. There can well 
 be over fifty dangerous soldiers in some of the missions in the game, and most tend to stick with 
 at least another. So expect countless quick saves and quick loads as the game revolves around thought-provoking 
 trial and error. If you never have loved strategy games or have a personal hate towards Chess, 
 you should stay away from picking up this title. However, with the high difficulty comes a lot 
 of potential fun and satisfaction.
  
  Perhaps the most notable thing about Commandos 2 and the biggest surprise is the new superior 3D 
 graphics engine. Pyro has spent an uncountable sum of money upgrading the games engine, and all 
 the work has paid off. Commandos 2 features jaw-dropping graphics and perhaps the best graphics 
 ever seen in a strategy game to date. Reinforcing this, strategy games have never been known for 
 special graphics, but Commandos 2 breaks the normality and shows us something we don't usually 
 see. The game beautifully renders World War 2 scenes and architecture, humid and lush jungles, 
 and freezing snowy scenes. One definitely incredible feeling the games graphics give to players 
 is the simulation of temperature. Combined with audio, you'll definitely be able to see whether 
 it is scorching hot and humid in a mission or whether it is freezing cold or whether it's normal 
 temperature. That makes the game more pleasurable to play in and helps alleviate some of the frustration 
 that may occur when playing the game and also helps create a lot of atmosphere.
  
  The audio in Commandos 2 also undeniably stands out. The background music each mission features 
 has been brilliantly composed, and creates the main drama for the game. Most of the songs are upbeat 
 and fast-paced, and tend to sort of snuggly fit in what kind of mission your in. If your in a jungle-environment 
 with many soldiers, there would normally be a slower song just whispering to your ear saying "Oh 
 god... this is gonna be a hard one". If youre in a mission with less guards and tight corridors 
 and, a song with emphasis on speed would play. However if there could one thing that could be improved 
 with the audio in the game is the sound effects. There are a lot of actions that the commandos 
 do, and many of them are not supplied with sound effects as they could have easily been. 
  
  The value of Commandos 2 is somewhat lacking. The game doesn't have any network you can connect 
 to so you can join servers online globally and play with other players. The method of multiplayer 
 Commandos 2 has is co-op. While in most games simply co-op is not enough to entertain the player 
 for long periods of time, Commandos 2 wouldn't actually suffer much in score if it didn't have 
 any multiplayer at all. The sophisticated and well-developed single-player campaign is enough to 
 drown out any multiplayer. Players that do want to get into the multiplayer will best proceed by 
 downloading and going with GameSpy Arcade. The multiplayer isn't very popular or anything, but 
 thanks to smooth international selling of the game; there are enough players for you to play with. 
 
  
  Commandos 2: Men of Courage is a must-have for strategy lover and a must-not-have for non-strategy 
 lovers. If you have a tolerance and love for games with some more punches of difficulty, you'll 
 enjoy every minute of Commandos 2. Or if you simply want to see the intensity and know impossible 
 World War 2 was, Commandos 2 will be one box on your desk that you'll enjoy having. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: game06
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jun 20, 2006 7:37 am PT
Review:  Although some features in this game is not realistic, the game itself is still enjoyable. This 
 is one of the best real time strategy games and is worthwhile to be played just more than once. 
 Wartime strategy games are amazing as in how the makers actually are able to animate the characters 
 in order to make it look somewhat real to an extent, but at the same time addicting. I recommend 
 gamers to play this type of strategy games as they are fun and challenging. This is one of the 
 best games i ever playes and hope the 3rd sequal is even better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: theguardian524
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jun 17, 2006 8:20 pm PT
Review:  This is one game that gives you the best of shooters and strategy games. Altough this game does 
 not give you the first person view that alot of people ar desiring latley. This game still offers 
 the fun of the hunt/kill but with more strategic thought and realistic covert ops operations. This 
 game is a definite improvement from its previous series, Commandos: Behind Enemy Lines and the 
 expansion to the original Commandos: Beyond The Call of Duty.
  
  The graphics has a huge improvement as well as gameplay. More options with the terrain interface 
 and more options with equipment and manipulation of enemy soldiers. So get ready for a true Special 
 Ops experience!
  
  End of Mission Breifing!
  
  (Worth buying, and playing)
  
  -Andrew, The Guardian 
::::::

::::::
UserName: legice
Rating: 9.7
Date: May 26, 2006 11:08 pm PT
Review:  The first time I saw the game It took my breath away, and my comp for some time. Here it is all in 
 the stile of play. if you are a stealthy person ,go with smeaking or spying with the diver, duke, natasha, 
 frenchy no1 and no2, if you are a hell of a sohooter, go running with a gun and the green guy, but 
 if you like good clean fun, go get mines, bangers, tanks, and the fat guy and driver, and place bombs 
 in the way of the serious, stupid, and ever so hungry for action germans.
  
  This game is a true masterpiece with a lot of side efects like, not sleeping, not eating, drinking, or 
 eaven not being with your comp. It is a game that changed the game making buisnes. It has great graphics, great 
 sound, a lot of levels, germans, and  stuff. It puts you 
 in the position of the ww1 or ww2 heroes, and you are damm good at it. It is a game that had me playing 
 it for 2 years! I said its not that bad, but it is not hata good, but what the hell I'l play it day 
 and night. It had me weaking up at 5 in the morning before school to play it, i mean is that normal 
 or is that a drug on a cd. Well all i want to tell you is THE GANE ROCKS!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sherifelgohary
Rating: 9
Date: May 20, 2006 8:08 am PT
Review:  General/Summary:
  Commandos 2 is a game with some very cool and innovative ideas, a complex and deep control scheme, 
 with interesting and fun missions. The core gameplay itself is absolutely superb, as is evident 
 from the reactions of the PC version of this game. Now that it has been ported over to the PS2, 
 it gives us consolers a chance to play a game in a genre that is rather scarce on a console ... 
 the real-time strategy genre. (No, Commandos2 is not a Starcraft-type real-time strategy, but it 
 has some similarities.) Commandos 2 was going to bring something new the PS2, something different 
 from the other games currently available. The programmers ported over all the gameplay elements 
 from the PC game, so that we wouldn't be getting any cut corners. And for that, I applaud the developers. 
 I mean, this game is very complex and is the type of game that consolers don't traditionally go 
 for. So it shows guts on the part of the developers to bring the port to us. Unfortunately, something 
 went wrong during the programming. Whether it is the limitations of the PS2 or the inefficient 
 programming of the game, the final product has some serious flaws, one of them being so bad it 
 kills this game. I've seen some amazing games on the PS2 that have much shorter load times, so 
 I'm inclined to think that the game's flaws are not due to the PS2's "limitations", but rather 
 the programming of the game itself. Get ready to wait, and wait, and wait.
  
  Gameplay:
  Underneath the horrible loading times flaw, Commandos 2 is an amazing game with very deep gameplay. 
 The game is played from a third person perspective, with the camera up in the sky looking down 
 on the level. If you've ever played a Diablo game, then you'll know what the camera is like. And, 
 one of the coolest parts of the gameplay is the ability to pan the camera around the entire level, 
 allowing you to get an overview of all your objectives and enemies. Panning the level is essential 
 because you'll need to plan your next movement and interactions keeping in mind what lies further 
 ahead. I. e. what route you plan to take will affect your choices in the future, so plan carefully. 
 You have at your disposal a group of 8 human Commandos and a dog. With each mission you will have 
 a unique group of several commandos to use, or maybe just one commando to start a mission. (The 
 commandos are preselected for each mission.) There are several actions each commando has in common, 
 and some actions that are unique for each commando. Learning which man (or woman) to use in what 
 situation is a lot of the game's strategy.
  
  Each commando has an inventory for which he/she carries weapons and supplies. Commandos can use 
 a large variety of items. For example: weapons, health kits, narcotic drugs, mine detectors, explosives, 
 lockpicks, wire cutters, wench and cable, decoys, shovels, etc. So, there are a wide variety of 
 means to achieve your goals. And many of these items can implemented together. For example, you 
 can dig a hole in the ground outside of a doorway, then use your decoy to lure the enemy out, by 
 which he then falls in the hole. Or you can combine a tripwire with a mine and leave it in an area 
 you know the enemy patrols. Put narcotics in the wine and leave it in front of a patrolling enemy's 
 position. He will then pick it up, drink it, and sleep forever.
  
  Enemy AI is really good in Commandos 2. The enemies have preset patrol paths and vision limitations. 
 One of the most important parts of the game is the ability to highlight an enemy and see their 
 cone of vision. Each enemy has an outer part of the vision cone by which you cannot be seen if 
 you are crawling or wearing the enemy's uniform, as well as an inner part of the vision cone in 
 which they can spot you quickly. Even little icons will appear above the enemy's head to give you 
 a visual clue of whether they are suspicious or alerted to you. Also, enemies can be alerted to 
 your sound if you are running or if you use a weapon nearby. If spotted, the enemies will call 
 for backup or sound the alarm, and then you've got a group of them coming after you. Even if you 
 run, they will systematically search for you. There is a limit to their searching, so you survive 
 if you find a good enough hiding spot till the alarm is over. (The enemy's reactions are kinda 
 similar to what we saw in Metal Gear Solid 2.) Still, being spotted by the enemy spells death a 
 lot of the time. However, you can use the enemy's alarm and search teams to your advantage. Set 
 up traps, like mines and tripwires, in the areas you think the enemy will run past in the event 
 of an alarm. Then make a noise or shoot a nearby enemy, and watch the fun unfold as they come out 
 looking for you ... boom! Overall the enemy AI is pretty good, but not perfect. There are limitations 
 to the AI, but that is intentionally done to allow for strategic movement of your commandos. They 
 may not be the smartest enemies, but the AI balances very well with the gameplay.
  
  There are many situations where you will want to use 2 or more commandos as a team effort to achieve 
 a goal. Often times you can use one guy to lure the enemy out, and then switch to the second guy 
 who will kill or knock out the lured enemy. Or even simpler, you can command your gunman to stay 
 in attack mode, so that when you are luring out the enemy with the decoy man, the gunman will automatically 
 shoot at the enemy (without the need for you to quickly switch back to the gunman) . Sometimes you 
 will send a guy ahead to climb inside a building and unlock it from the inside. One time, I sent 
 the thief into an area where my sniper could not reach. I had the thief steal more sniper rifle 
 ammo and bring it back, by which I then picked off the distant enemies with my sniper. There are 
 a lot of creative ways you can use your commandos as a team, and this is one of the game's strongest 
 aspects.
  
  The freedom the game allows is a very strong part of the gameplay as well. Each mission can be 
 played in a variety of ways, although some choices will result in a dire situation. So, make your 
 own choices, but choose wisely. The game does require a lot of planning and stealth, which does 
 allow you move at your own pace. In fact, learning how to eliminate enemies with stealth will become 
 your best approach in many situations. This almost creates an air of suspense as you anticipate 
 what would happen if you choose a particular route
  
  In addition to all those previously mentioned gameplay strengths, Commandos 2 sports some very 
 impressive levels. The first 2 missions are small, but after that the levels get quite large. The 
 levels are full of barracks, buildings, walkways, guard posts, hiding places, telephone or electrical 
 wires, fences, barb wire, mine fields, bodies of water (yes, you can even swim on top of and travel 
 underwater) , large courtyards, vehicles, etc. And the levels are not barren. No, they are filled 
 with loads of the objects, creating multiple complex pathways to take. Buildings are multileveled, 
 with catwalks, stairways, and rooftops to traverse. There are areas you can even scale up the sides 
 of buildings, or can use a grappling hook and climb up the side. And, to top this all off, most 
 of the buildings can be entered and contain multiple rooms. One of the coolest aspects of the level 
 design is he ability to look through a window to see the enemies before entering. Truly, the level 
 designs are remarkable and balance well with the other aspects of gameplay.
  
  Commandos 2 has a very steep learning curve and will take several hours to really get the controls 
 down. Every single button on the dualshock 2 is used, and you will need to be able to use it fluidly 
 as the action is all real-time. So an investment of time will be needed before the controls become 
 fluid. Fortunately, the game provides a very good tutorial and 2 training missions, so that even 
 gamers who rent with no instruction manual should be able to play it. Considering the sheer number 
 of actions your commandos can perform, the controls are mapped quite well to the dualshock 2. Also, 
 the game is very hard, requiring you to move and act at specific times when the enemy is not looking. 
 The game is designed to be very hard and thus you feel rewarded when you complete a level. But, 
 the game also allows you to save at any time, thus you do not have to replay the entire level if 
 you die. And you will die or fail a lot in each mission. Reloading 50 times or more is not uncommon 
 in the 3rd mission and beyond. I have no problem with the difficulty level. Dying or failing simply 
 means you have to re-plan you approach and learn from your mistakes. No, the difficulty of the 
 game is not the problem.
  
  So up till now, I have talked about a game that does many, many things right. Unfortunately, there 
 is one major flaw that negates all the positives of the game and brings the gameplay to a screeching 
 halt. I'm talking about the load times. Playing the first two missions is not a problem as these 
 training missions are small. But when you get to the third mission, you'll see the writing on the 
 wall. The game will take anywhere from 40 seconds to 72 seconds (yes, I timed the loading) to load 
 a mission. But this by itself would not be a problem. No, the problem arises when you reload from 
 your last save game.... Another 40 - 72 seconds to reload. Yes, the game actually wipes the memory 
 clear and reloads everything from scratch each time you want to reload. But wait a minute... the 
 game's level is already in memory, right? Why does the game have to reload the entire level? I've 
 seen many PS2 games that simply use the code already in memory to go back to the start of a level 
 or start you at your last save spot. Nope, not with Commmandos 2. And since the game is designed 
 to be hard, you'll be restarting 50 times or more per mission. Now add that up. Now do you see 
 the problem? Each time you make a little mistake you are "punished" by watching a load screen for 
 a minute. There were times I was actually watching the load screen as much as I was playing. At 
 first, I was able to stomach the load times. But after repeatedly long load times, it really started 
 to get irritating. Then, several hours later it started angering me. It really breaks up the action 
 of the game and kills a lot of the game's underlying fun. I stubbornly forced myself to plow through 
 several of the missions beyond the training levels, but after a while I just though, "What's the 
 point?" To complete the entire game, I would end up spending several hours, yes hours, watching 
 load screens. And the load screen is the same dull screen over and over. At least give me some 
 interesting screen shots. Or, like the new Test Drive game, you could play pong while the game 
 loads. None of that. So, if you want to play this game on the PS2, make sure you have some activity 
 to do while you wait and wait and wait for the load screens. Here are a list of things I did while 
 waiting for the game to load:
  - Play ball with my dog
  - Go to the bathroom.
  - Watch my friend waste the other cars with his Ford GT concept car on Sega GT 2002.
  - Write 
 this review. Yes, portions of this very review were written while waiting to load the game.
  - Pay my bills
  - Calculate the distance from Jupiter to the sun. (This one took 2 load times 
 to get)
  
  And the load times are not the only problem with this ported game. Overall, everything in the game 
 is sluggish. When the alarm sounds, the framerate goes way down. There is a significant delay when 
 rotating the camera, and this often times left me disoriented. There is a delay when trying to 
 select my next commando ... and this delay occurs while all the other action is still going and 
 can result in one of your commandos getting shot while waiting for the game to finally get to the 
 character selection screen. Also, selecting a new commando will often result in the game arbitrarily 
 rotating the camera 90 degrees ... talk about disorienting. Panning of the camera around the level 
 is sluggish and delayed. It just feels like the levels are almost too large to fit into the PS2's 
 memory (I'm talking about the 3rd level and beyond, not the training missions.) Once again, I don't 
 think this is a limitation of the PS2's hardware. Look at the games Twisted Metal Black and Dave 
 Mirra 2. These are games with absolutely gigantic levels (certainly more objects than the levels 
 in Commandos 2) and they have almost no slowdown or lagging. So, I have seen examples of what the 
 PS2 can do. Commandos 2 looks like inefficient programming on the part of the game designers. I 
 know I sound like I'm being critical, and I don't program games ... but I know that, as a gamer, 
 these problems are annoying and detract from the gameplay.
  
  The bottom line is that the load times seen in Commandos 2 are unacceptable for a next generation 
 console. I have seen examples of other games with bigger levels and faster load times, so I know 
 it ain't the hardware. I guess the worst part about the load times is that it gives me a lot of 
 time to think about all those other games I'D RATHER BE PLAYING INSTEAD. If the load times were 
 acceptable, I would rate the game a 4 or 5 ... but the load times are actually that annoying, at 
 least to me.
  
  Graphics:
  There are a lot of objects in the levels. It's just that the objects and characters are not made 
 with enough polygons and not enough detail. Thus, a lot of things end up looking blurry. This can 
 make for some confusing gaming since sometimes you cannot tell what you are looking at and where 
 the walkways in between buildings may exist. The icons that appear in your character selections 
 menus are the worst. These icons are so blurry and un-detailed that you really cannot tell what 
 you are selecting. I have to look to the game's manual to "interpret" what the icon is that I am 
 looking at. And the manual does not list all the icons in one area, so it becomes a searching game 
 to find it. In many ways, learning to read these icons is like learning another language. Combine 
 all this with the framerate slowdown, and you have some mediocre graphics. But the minor graphical 
 flaws can be overlooked. The graphics ain't the problem ... it's the load times.
  
  Sound:
  There is speech, sound effects, and background music. The alarm sound effect is like 
 a 5 second sound bite repeated at nauseum. All your commandos say little confirmations when you 
 issue them orders. Different sounds when crawling verses walking verses running. Nothing that really 
 stands out, but still a solid effort. The sound is good enough for the game. The sound ain't the 
 problem ... we know what the real problem is. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: theRunninGamer
Rating: 9.2
Date: May 12, 2006 12:26 am PT
Review:  What in the world could possibly be more satisfying than stabbing a roomfull of Nazis in the back 
 without a single one of them noticing the others dropping like flies?
  
  How about an ambush with a rifle, a submachine gun, and a few pistols? A few dozen bodies lying 
 on open ground ought to be enough bait...
  
  The Commandos series has long been the yardstick by which all stealth-action games are measused, 
 and the second full game is by far the best. Commandos 2 takes everything that made the original 
 two games fun and accessible, and ptus it together with a fairly cohesive story and tremendous 
 level design that superbly complements the strategic and stealthy nature of the game.
  
  Commandos 2 brings back the Green Beret, the Marine, Driver, Spy and Sapper from the original games, 
 and adds the Theif, Seductress, and others. The slew of characters greatly contributes to the game's 
 feeling of cooperation in pursuit of a larger goal. The game's lengthy single-player campaign is 
 further appreciable with the game's open-ended nature - missions can be completed in any manner 
 you choose - which allows for a great deal of replayability.
  
  In addition to the single-player aspect of the game, Pyro Studios brings back the ever popular 
 cooperative multiplayer mode, though competitive multiplayer is absent until Commandos III. The 
 cooperative multiplayer mode offers the complete experience of the single-player game, but with 
 the added fun of being able to play with a friend. Each of you chooses some of the soldiers present 
 in a mission, and off you go. The cooperative mode adds even more replayability to the already 
 significant amount the game already offers.
  
  Personally, I love this game as one of my all time favorites due to it's stealthy, "Commandos style" 
 gameplay, though my absolute favorite feature is the true coop mode available to people with a 
 buddy who can play with them. Though the graphics are extremely dated at present, nearly five years 
 after its release, I still play Commandos 2 with as much enjoyment as I did when I first bought 
 it at launch five years ago. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Snake_RC
Rating: 9.4
Date: May 9, 2006 5:09 am PT
Review:  it's the best commandos in the series . it's fantastic . if you like commandos you will love this 
 game it's better than the others in every thing . even if you play it and find some missions are 
 impossible to pass you find way to pass them and kill every enemy solider in it exept some very 
 hard missions , when you want just to pass it and go to the next one . the final mission should 
 be much harder or with out the tank because ones you get it you will blast your way throw (exept 
 for the othertank and armored car those two you should be careful with them ore they will destroy 
 you) and in the buildings every thing will be easy with more than enough ammo and camo . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mavediss
Rating: 9.2
Date: May 7, 2006 7:16 pm PT
Review:  Commandos 2 shows a great and amazing improvement over the previous releases and it is one of the 
 best games I ever played at least on a PC system. There are so many options to complete a simple 
 task or accomplish your full objectives that you really feel yourself in the commandos shoes. 
 The graphics are impressive and the gameplay keep you attached to the mission until the end. Another 
 great feature, although it takes some time to learn, is the full list of hotkeys. They are really 
 helpful to speed up your orders. For me, this game is serious fun and you dont want the game to 
 end. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Icarus405
Rating: 9.6
Date: May 3, 2006 9:09 am PT
Review:  Commandos 2 - Men of Courage is the third game in the Commandos series. And from the Classic Commandos 
 Series (excluding Strike Force) , it is without doubt, the best game, with great gameplay, that 
 is challenging but fun and huge environments with lots of places to explore and lots of enemies 
 to battle.
  Commandos 2 - Men of Courage, takes place during WW-II. You will take control of a small squad 
 of elite Commandos, each with their own skills and personality. The game takes you to many places, 
 during that era, including Burma, Normandy and even Germany...
  The Gameplay of Commandos 2 is challenging but fun, unlike Commandos 3 - Destination Berlin, which 
 is extremely difficult to enjoy, even for a Commandos Veteran. The game has three difficulty modes, 
 Normal, Hard and Very hard. Allthough the game might seem quite hard and too big at first, once 
 you get familiar with the controls and basic tactings, the game turns into a fun and challenging 
 experience. There are two Tutorial levels, but they don't quite give you the whole picture, so 
 that is why the game also has a in game manual, which is so big that you can find anything you 
 need to know, with ease. The gameplay revolves around stealth but nothing stops you from solving 
 situations with bullets. Ammo might however be an issue, because one of the weird things in Commandos 
 2 is that, for instance, for a rifle you can have a maximum of 15 rounds and you can pick up only 
 3 rounds on a single enemy. The rifle does however kill an enemy in one shot, so it is quite fair, 
 but still unlogical. Your Commandos all have different skills which you will need in all kinds 
 of situations. This makes sure that you play the game as a team. The most useful characters are 
 however The Green Beret (who is with you on allmost every mission) , The Spy (who can easily trick 
 lower ranking soldiers) and The Marine (who can throw knives, performing
  powerful stealth kills. You also have all kinds of other useful characters, who can do all kinds 
 of stuff, like climbing walls, finding mines, driving vehicles, setting up traps, tieing up enemies 
 etc, etc. With all these characters, you can do a huge amount of other actions in the game, like 
 throwing grenades through windows, taking an enemy soldiers uniform, so you can move around undetected 
 at long range, snipe inside buildings, poison enemies by putting sleeping pills into their drinks 
 and much, much more. There is just so much to do in this game that, it would take too long to list 
 out everything. Allmost all actions have keys binded to them, which can be changed. So if you need 
 to perform some critical actions quickly, you can reach your knife, rifle, syringe, cigarette pack, 
 just at the press of a button. This is one of the things that they (for some extremely weird reason) 
 didn't put into Commandos 3. There isn't a key for quick saving however, so you have to quicksave 
 from the in game menu. The environments of Commandos 2 are huge and rendered in beutiful 2D, and 
 can be rotated by 90 degrees, giving you 4 angles. The interiors are however in 3D (when you peek 
 through a door or window, into a building or the next room, so you can have a good look around) . 
 Allthough they are rendered in 3D, you still have to switch your view 90 degrees at a time. Because 
 the levels are so huge and you have Primary, Secondary and Bonus objectives, you might have trouble 
 finding your objectives. You can get extremely useful information by clicking an objective in the 
 objectives list. This will show you the location in 2 pictures, with the target pointed out with 
 an arrow and if you click a certain icon in your hud, after viewing the objective, you can have 
 an arrow pointing at the location where you want to go, while playing the game. This is all very 
 helpful, especialy when moving in large buildings. The hud has all kinds of useful buttons and 
 every character (excluding the soldiers that you have to control in a few missions) has his/her 
 face in the hud, which will change depending on how much damage he has taken and what he is doing 
 at the moment. As i said before, there is a lot to learn, but once you learn it, it makes the game 
 very fun to play and easy to handle...
  The Graphics in Commandos 2 are great, as i said before, but there is one problem. The game has 
 three resolutions, 640 x 480, 800 x 600 and 1024 x 768. But for some reason, the in game menu is 
 allways in 640 x 480 resolution, which means that if you are playing on a higher resolution than 
 that, you have to wait a little bit, while the resolution changes, to be able to quicksave or quickload. 
 Some monitors switch resolutions faster than others, so this won't be a big problem for everybody, 
 but this was a big problem for me however, because the PC i was playing on, took about 3 seconds 
 to change the resolution. When playing on 640 x 480, the game allows you to save and load much 
 quicker, but it makes the game a whole lot more uglier, so i recommend that under no circumstances 
 should you play on that resolution, not until you have gotten a hang of the controls and need to 
 load less frequently.
  The Sound of Commandos 2 is just perfect. All things sound just as good as they look. Enemies speak 
 in their native language, different surfaces make different noises, vehicles sound very realistic 
 and all weapons sound as powerful as they look. The music is the best part. The music fits right 
 into the situation and allmost all levels have a different music track during gameplay. The music 
 also changes when you are in an interior environment, where the music is usualy a bit more sneaky, 
 just as your tactical intentions.
  The Controls (as i have said a dozen times before) are hard to learn but very useful, once you 
 get a hang of them. Not only are there a lot of quick keys for one character, but every character 
 has a different use for certain keys, so learning them won't be an easy process, but in your hud, 
 you will not only see the items in your inventory, that you can use, but also their quick keys, 
 so you can take a look over there, when ever you are in trouble.
  The Extras in the game are quite interesting. In each level you will find a big number of bonus 
 picture pieces, which you can collect. When you get all the pieces, not only will you have a good 
 look at one of the pictures you put together, but you will also be able to play a bonus level. 
 The difficulty modes can be quite interesting to try too. With each new difficulty level, your 
 enemies will not only be smarter and faster, but they will have different patrol routes and there 
 will even be some more enemies in certain places, so this makes the game interesting to play again, 
 but allmost all of your tactics from easier difficulty modes will work on the harder difficulty 
 modes.
  Overall, Commandos 2 - Men of Courage is an exellent WW-II based game that is challenging, but 
 not very hard and because of that, it creates a fun and interesting experience, but only for gamers 
 who are okay with playing games with 2D environments and a long learning curve. You can also try 
 a demo if you are interested in this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: armygoose
Rating: 8.8
Date: Apr 20, 2006 4:01 pm PT
Review:  I bought this game online for about 6 bucks. I would've paid 50 for it. Great graphics, and it 
 now has a quick save feature so you don't have to start over at the beginning of the level. Highly 
 addictive and challenging. Highly recommend for any strategy gamers. There are so many ways to 
 accomplish the mission, yet there are many more ways to fail. A great game, I wish other people 
 would not forget about the Commando series!
  
  The graphics are so unreal on some of the missions. 
  
  The only down side is learning all 
 of the keys. You have to keep pausing the game to learn how to throw a grenade, climb a telephone 
 pole, or open a door.
  However, for that same reason, it multiplies the ways to accomplish the mission, and gives the 
 player a plethora of actions each Commando can do. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: edubuccaneer
Rating: 9.7
Date: Mar 14, 2006 1:13 pm PT
Review:  The original Commandos was one of the most innovative games ever released. Period. Nothing like 
 it was ever done that showed how hard it must have been for men in wars to do their missions.
 
  
  Commandos II manages to improve the original's formula with much better graphics, controls and 
 features. And it has a great challenge to boot.
  
  First of all, the graphic engine has been revamped. Gone are the pseudo 3-D backgrounds and characters. 
 The game is in full 3-D, everything is animated, from the birds flying in the skies to the trees 
 smooth motion with the wind. The game just looks beautiful. The character models look really sharp 
 and crisp. You can even zoom in on the action, but doing so will make the game pixelate and it's 
 not even such a good idea doing that, since you'll be distracted from the overall situation.
  
  All the old main characters return to the war in this game, taking out the poor pilot from 
 the list, but he was almost a NPC, anyway. A new nimble agent has been added, he can sneak by guards 
 and steal stuff from right under their noses. And boy can he crawl fast! He's ideal for ambushes, 
 for attracting enemies to the awesome power of Tiny, the green beret. 
  
  Now, if you run while sneaking, the guards will hear, since the enemy has been upgraded. In addition 
 to seeing, the guards will be able to hear you if you make too much noise. Stab a guard too close 
 to the others and they'll come to check it out. It is always better to knock out the enemies and 
 tie them. All of the characters have the ability to tie enemies this time around. The spy can't 
 hit them, but he can render them unconscious with two does of his poison, and the driver in addition 
 to punching can throw gas grenades which are really useful with big groups. It's ideal to sometimes 
 make duos in the game: one hits while the other takes out the backup, if that's needed.
  
  The levels in this game range from all corners of the war, from Kwai to Shangai and Paris. Also, 
 some classic movie settings are available here, like the afformentioned Bridge Over River Kwai 
 and Guns of Navarone. Yep, you'll have to blow up the bridge while saving the hostages/prisoners 
 and yes, you'll have to destroy the mounted cannons in an isle. All is done with cinematic briefings 
 and an overall look at the action.
  
  The controls have really improved this time around, now everything is nicely layed about, you can 
 control almost everything from the keyboard and managing units will be a piece of cake once you 
 figure out all of the buttons for the characters. You'll just love using Tiny and Sapper! Also, 
 vehicles have become more specialized. What I mean is that you'll need the Driver to drive a tank 
 and you'll need the Sapper to fire its guns. One character does one thing and the other, the other. 
 Something like this has been kind of revamped in Soldiers, released sometime ago.
  
  I'm a huge fan of strategy games, and Commandos just kicks butt for me since it brings a huge challenge 
 to the table, something that most people will just give up and go play FPSs... I insisted and I 
 finished all of the Commandos series, and it gave me a lot of satisfaction in doing so. You'll 
 enjoy it if you have real determination.
  
  Thanks for reading! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: L0n3W01F
Rating: 9.6
Date: Feb 15, 2006 9:49 pm PT
Review:  Commandos 2 : Men of Courage is the first "3-d" game in the series. It brings a revelutionary style 
 to the game which fans really love.
  
  Gameplay:
  
  What people complained about the previous Commandos games was that they had a "fixed" gameplay 
 and a repetetive style, to put it simple the previous Commandos titles were not wide and they had 
 limited gameplay techniques. But luckily Men of Courage has the most widest RTS gameplay style. 
 The action is highly addictive and there are lot of ways to complete missions. So it won't be necessary 
 to look for walkthrough cuz you'll find various ways to complete a mission. Even though some players 
 might find it very hard but after a few learning of the basic concepts of the game, you'll get 
 the hang of it.
  
  Graphics:
  
  The best one to come in the 2001. The graphics are simply beautiful and each mission world has 
 a unique detail. The terrain detail is great, the special effects, the character models, they are 
 all very beautifully done. So there are not too many major problems in the graphics. Except that 
 the game might crash for some users, due to stability issues and thats the only bad part you'll 
 find about the game but it won't happen much.
  
  Sound:
  
  The music of Commandos 2 : Men of Courage is brilliant and adds a lot of intensity to the gameplay, 
 each of Commando's voices are done very well and make the game more fun. Even though you'll find 
 that most of the mission musics sound almost the same but actually they are not. The instruments 
 might be the same but the composition is different. So thats a good thing, the music really fits 
 the World War Atmosphere.
  
  Value:
  
  It's a long game so you'll be playing this for a while, even if your a good player it might take 
 hours to complete certain missions which are hard. But if you have ended it, you could test your 
 skills and go for the harder difficulty level.
  
  Commandos 2 : Men of Courage is great and you should buy it if you have missed it from 2001. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ariel_king
Rating: 4.3
Date: Dec 3, 2005 9:48 am PT
Review:  I played this game and I was really disappointed about this game!!!!!
  
  Gameplay: You play as the commando squad and you are trying to save the world. The storyline is 
 very long and overall this game is really really hard.
  
  Grahpics: The graphics are actually pretty good in this game. The soldiers look cool, the viechles 
 look nice and the areas are great.
  
  Sound: The music in this game is probaly the worst music I have ever heard in a strategy game.
 
  
  Value: You can play for hours and hours trying to finish the game. The storyline is very long and 
 the online feature is horrible.
  
  Reviewer's tilt: Overall this game is a crappy game for the PC and you should never try this one 
 out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Delvar
Rating: 8.7
Date: Oct 18, 2005 10:01 am PT
Review:  Comandos : Man of courage for mi is already a pc classic . Sine I play comandos 1 I start to wait 
 a new one. And then Eidos surprise mi whit one of the most impresive games I have played.
  
  I think comandos is the serie tha have a group of caracters tha no one who had played will forget 
 so son. The ability of the caracter can be unic for each one of then.
  
  1 - great caracters
  2 - great musics
  3 - very dificult,,
  
  
  If you have the chance 
 to play it,, do it and you will be surprised with the guality. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gamerichard
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 7, 2005 8:38 pm PT
Review:  Graphics: 9/10 
  Sounds: 10/10 
  Difficulty: 9/10 (too hard) 
  Playability: 9/10 
  Gameplay: 10/10 
  
  The visuals is great if you don't zoom in couse then you'll see that the 
 pixels is pretty big. But you don't see this if you as said before don't zoom in. 
  
  The music is some of the best ever been on a video-game. There are so many different tunes that 
 really puts you in the military mood. The sound effects is great, with so many different commands 
 made by the germans, and so many different gun sounds. 
  
  The gameplay is the same as in Commandos 1, and is really thrilling. There is about 10 missions, 
 and each of them is huge. They may be a little bit to hard, and you will have problems completing 
 the game at first. There are a huge amount of gadgets to pick up, and many different caracters. 
 You can now also controle a dog which is very useful in stealth operations. 
  
  + 
  Great tunes and sound effects. Some really fantastic missions which is all has great story background. 
 There are a huge amount of gadgets and weapons to pick up, and characters to chouse from. Hard, 
 very hard. 
  
  - 
  A little bit to hard, even on normal difficulty. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: WolksWagen
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 22, 2005 12:06 pm PT
Review:  Eidos has made yet another truly incredible games, first it was the tomb raider sieries, project 
 eden, and now the commandos series. Commandos 2 is by far the best of the series (and I think it 
 should be) . This game thouroughly brings WW2 stealth action to the PC, and now to the consoles. 
 Of course, the PC version is the best, because it is much easier to point and click in a strategy 
 game than use cursor buttons on the consoles (duh) . You even get a whole team of special commandos 
 that have certain specialties, all that are able to be used at the same time. The commandos even 
 talk when you click on them and give them commands, which is an improvement from the earlier games. 
 The commandos missions range from Japan, to the camps of Nazis, in the heart of Germany. 
  Gameplay: 9of10 
  The gameplay was truly astonishing in this relativly inexpensive hit, with 
 many more features, like being able to swim, and change cloths with a dead soldier. It is always 
 great steering my men around, shooting the unexpecting guard. Luckily, unlike the James Bond games, 
 there is blood when you kill the enemy, yet its so small, because of the far zoom of the game (you 
 can zoom in too! but it does affect the graphics) . 
  Graphics: 9of10 
  Wow. The first two commandos games had very 2d isometric graphics, which higly resembled the Gangster 
 games also by Eidos. But Commandos 2, wow. wow. wow. The commando models are now in 3D! There environments 
 are unbelievingly realistc, with every detail of moss and algae, and bricks, and smoke coming out 
 of smokestacks. A HUGE improvement over the first couple of games is also the fact that you can 
 go inside builsdings and explore, kill get items etc inside the buildings. In previous versions, 
 you could only hide in the house, and you wouldnt even be able to see inside. WOW... Explosions. 
 The best I have seen to date on the PC, truly one of the most realistic explosions out there. WOW. 
 
  Sound: 9of10 
  The sound has just wonderfull! There was very high quality music that fit the setting, the only 
 con is that they only had like two gameplay songs, but they were extremely long, so the good stuff 
 lasted. The SFX were also great, hearing crisp, loud gunshots, and monsterous explosions really 
 made my day. 
  Overall, Commandos 2 is deffinetly a game to get, for anyone into highly realistc action strategy 
 games. The only bad thing about it is the difficulty, there is a little difficulty in the missions ( 
 did I mention that the levels are huge, and take usualy two hours to complete:-D) 
  There are always good strategies that you will perfect over time, that will help you with these 
 difficulties, and as a last resport, there are codes &gt;:- (. 
  Final Word: Truly Amazing, pick it up today, you'll be impressed.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sampas88
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jul 10, 2005 1:12 pm PT
Review:  Pyro Studios groundbreaking real-time strategy game, Commandos: Behind Enemy Lines, was released 
 in June 1998, allowing gamers to point and click their way onto the front lines alongside World 
 War II's Top Secret British Commandos. Commandos was a unique squad-based strategy title where 
 you controlled a group of soldiers, each with their own special abilities. The 2D isometric viewpoint, 
 highly detailed artwork and compelling gameplay made it a best selling title for publisher Eidos 
 Interactive and inspired a stand-alone mission pack, Commandos: Beyond the Call of Duty. Two and 
 a half years later, Pryo studios brought us a true Commandos sequel, Commandos 2: Men of Courage, 
 updating the game engine and keeping the classic gameplay that made Commandos a hit with gamers. 
 
  
  
  Gameplay
  
  If you have played any of the games in the new squad-based real-time strategy genre (Commandos, 
 Beyond the Call of Duty, Star Trek Away Team or Desperados) then you will be familiar with the 
 gameplay in Commandos 2: Men of Courage. At the beginning of each mission you are supplied with 
 a small squad of soldiers. Each soldier has a range of special abilities, which you can use to 
 disable the enemy soldiers while you try to accomplish the mission goals.
  
  The game is displayed from a 2D isometric viewpoint similar to Diablo or Warcraft II. Enemy soldiers 
 have an alert "field of view" which can be seen by clicking on the field of view icon and then 
 clicking on the soldier. This will show their viewing "cone" and their level of alert status (Green 
 for blissfully unaware, Yellow for suspicious and Red for alerted) . You can go for the brutal frontal 
 assault (and die in a hail of gunfire) or you can dispatch the enemy quietly with your sniper or 
 sneak up from behind them and give them a knife in the back.
  
  
  Included in Commandos 2 are 12 missions spanning 11 different environments. Mission environments 
 are based on authentic WWII locations including: the heart of the third Reich, a northern European 
 submarine installation, the headquarters of the Japanese army and more. The choice of mission locations 
 even give a curt nod to classic World War II movies including Saving Private Ryan, Bridge on the 
 River Kwai and The Guns of Navarone. 
  
  Nine commandos are included in Commandos 2: Men of Courage. Some of the cast from the first game 
 makes a return along with the addition of new characters. There is a wide variety of characters 
 to choose from including a green beret, sniper, demolitions expert and new characters like the 
 thief, the seductress and even Whiskey, a dog who can transport documents between characters or 
 serve as a useful distraction. 
  
  Each character now has an inventory of items that they can carry. Once you dispatch an enemy, you 
 can steal their uniform, guns and other useful goodies. The range of skills available to each character 
 has been broadened in Commandos 2. Everyone can now wear enemy uniforms (though only the spy can 
 wear officer uniforms and give orders to the enemy) and move bodies out of sight. There are items 
 that are still specific to each character, like only Sapper can plant explosives. During the course 
 of your missions, you will even be able to command allied troops.
  
  
  
  Graphics
  
  What really sets Commandos 2 apart from Commandos: Behind Enemy Lines or Commandos: Beyond 
 the Call of Duty is the new game engine. Both your Commandos and the enemy characters are now full 
 3D models with a striking amount of detail and animation. The main 2D landscape has been enhanced 
 and can now be rotated in 90 increments, allowing you to see behind buildings and you can zoom 
 out to get a birds eye view of the action.
  
  
  The environment is also more interactive. The commandos can climb poles, swing from cables, enter 
 and exit buildings (even looking into or climbing through windows) and enter ships and planes. 
 Building interiors are rendered in full 360 rotatable 3D and still retain the intricate detail 
 of the pre-rendered 2D exterior landscapes. The engine has day and night effects as well as snow 
 and rain. The game engine is simply stunning, combining the best qualities of the rendered 2D landscape 
 and the versatility of rotatable 3D building interiors. 
  
  
  Commandos 2 doesn't have a learning curve; it has a learning mountain. It is an uphill climb that 
 may leave you panting for breath even during the training missions. In fact, no "training missions" 
 are included at all. The two missions that are labeled as training include none of the elements 
 you would normally concede need to be included in an in-game training. There are no annoying pop-up 
 text descriptions of key locations or personnel, no pausing in the middle of a mission while the 
 computer explains your next move and no big pointy arrows telling you where to go or what skills 
 you should use.
  
  
  You are dropped into these missions with little more than a sketchy outline of how to complete 
 your objectives. Players who survive this brutal gaming boot camp will walk away with a good knowledge 
 of how the game works -- having been forced to learn the controls, keyboard commands and character 
 skills or just be stuck on these missions forever. 
  
  
  Using the keyboard in Commandos 2 is as inescapable as Hitler's Blitzkrieg. Every weapon, item 
 or person in the game has a corresponding keyboard command. Want to punch someone out? Hit Q. Want 
 to mow them down with the sub machine gun? Hit M. Need to examine an item? Hit W. While you will 
 quickly learn these commands from repeated use, it still feels like the game interface should have 
 been streamlined with more mouse controls.
  
  
  
  While clickable mouse icons are available for many items and commands (with the keyboard hotkey 
 shown in the corner of the icon) , the icon you need will often be buried in a sub-menu and not 
 quickly accessible when danger rears its ugly head. Even the most devoted mouse lover will still 
 need to Shift + Click on people or items or use the Alt + Arrow keys to rotate the map. Keyboard 
 commands are essential. To Pyro's credit, all the keyboard hotkeys are listed in nice sidebar charts 
 in the game manual. On the other hand, no keyboard reference chart was included in the game. This 
 will mean endless flipping through the manual in the beginning of the game searching for those 
 sidebar charts. 
  
  
  
  At the beginning of each mission the mission objectives are outlined in a brief conversation between 
 the game characters. Points of interest are highlighted during this briefing and mission goals 
 are revealed. At least in theory. The reality is that neither the mission goals nor the important 
 locations are highlighted in enough detail to give you anything more than a gentle nudge in the 
 right direction.
  
  Each game mission ends up being along the difficulty level of a twelve-mile hike with a 50 lb. 
 backpack. As should come as no surprise -- the hike is uphill both ways. Not only will you need 
 to puzzle out exactly what to do to complete your mission, and then is no small task of accomplishing 
 these goals against the brutal enemy AI. There will be times when the game can seem frustrating. 
 At the beginning of a mission you can be faced with what seems like an impossible task, only to 
 eventually figure out the right timing or special ability that allows you to progress to the next 
 goal. In-game hints are available, you can click on your mission objectives and the game will even 
 point an arrow at your next area of interest.
  
  
  
  For the money, you are really getting two games in one. A strategic game where you plan out your 
 mission and the skills you will need, and a tactical combat game where you carry out special operations 
 with split second timing. Mission Difficult... Yes. Mission Impossible... No, not really. 
  
  
  Sound
  
  The sound in Commandos 2 is well-done, especially the music. It draws you 
 into the games setting beautifully, and I found myself humming certain tracks even after turning 
 off my PC. It has lots of suspense and sets the tension exactly where it should be  just an out 
 and out great job. The voice acting is, for the most part, so-so to good, although a couple of 
 the accents are slightly off.
  
  
  
  
  Conclusion 
  
  With no real tutorial, no keyboard reference chart, no decent mission briefing and a level of difficulty 
 that can border on frustrating it would seem like Commandos 2: Men of Courage was an atomic bomb 
 just waiting to be dropped on an enemy city. Instead, like a German U-Boat the game will sneak 
 up on you and deliver a vicious one-two punch of fantastic graphics and addictive puzzle-solving 
 gameplay. 
  
  
  
  After only a few missions you will overlook the arcane keyboard-driven interface and high degree 
 of difficulty and get down to the business of spying, sneaking, and shooting your way to victory 
 against the Nazi empire. In a year with few real high-quality products Commandos 2 leaps out at 
 you from the shadows and demands at gunpoint to be taken home and installed on your computer. Grab 
 your copy today and venture deep into the heart of the third Reich. You might just change the course 
 of history. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Vissuluth
Rating: 8.9
Date: May 29, 2005 6:02 pm PT
Review:  La veritat s que desprs de jugar al primer i haver-mel acabat, no em quedamen gaires ganes de 
 jugar al segon, el vaig jugar fora temps desprs dhaver sortit, i he tingut la fora suficient 
 per acabar-mel tamb.
  Mha quedat molt bon sabor de boca, la veritat s que els jocs 2D crec que aconsegueixen ms realisme 
 que els 3D, a ms a ms, el control s ms simple i testalvia mals de cap. Lambientaci s acollonant, 
 tant grficament com de so.
  Llstima que el jocs lhgin volgut ambientar en lescenari del pacfic i aix fa perdre una mica 
 de grcia, a ms ams la paleta grfica s ms viva, i a mi magraden ms els grfics ms morts 
 i foscos, de totes maneres els grfics sn acollonants.
  Laltra part dolenta s que han volgut introduir unes novetats que no sn gens necessrias, al 
 contrari, a vegades tens la opci de fer-les servir, i no ho fas, per poder fer-ho a lestil tradicional 
 de la saga.
  Les missions en general sn exquisites, variades i no tant dificils com el primer joc, per no 
 vol dir que siguin fcils, ni molt menys.
  En general un molt bon joc, encara que no mha deixat molta emprempta per culpa del primer, que 
 mata una mica el feeling. En general est al nivell del primer salvant la distncia temporal.
 
  Sort que no van treure una expansi, lhagussin cagat, com amb el primer, que no va aportar res 
 de nou.
  Llstima que el tercer no estigui al mateix nivell, no han sapigut matar la saga a temps. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SadExchange
Rating: 9.1
Date: Mar 30, 2005 5:21 pm PT
Review:  After leading your commandos through a solid 20 missions of the first installment of the Commandos 
 series (Behind Enemy Lines [BEL] ) and then through eight more extremely hard objective based missions 
 of Beyond the Call of Duty (BTCOD) which is the stand-alone expansion, you again are called upon 
 to help the Allies against the dreadfully hated Axis of World War II. Where as in the first game, 
 BEL, where you had control of only six unique commandos, in Commandos 2, youll now be able to 
 plan your strategies throughout each level with nine different characters including old time favorites 
 like Tiny, Inferno, Duke, Spooky, Fins, and Sid; and entering into the mix are Natasha (from BTCOD) , 
 Lupin, and Whiskey, which happens to be a trusty dog that can convoy supplies from commando to 
 commando during missions. With nine different and unique commandos that have their own special 
 abilities, youd think that going through this game would be easy. Well, youre going to have to 
 think again, because Pyros Studios, developers of the first and its expansion brought their fan 
 community what they were looking for on September 20 of 2001. A fun, challenging game that youll 
 not only have to sit and think about, but where youll have multiple ways of completing each of 
 the ten missions through the single player campaign.
  
  But dont think that just because Commandos 2 is only ten missions long that youll be able to 
 beat the game in one sitting. There are ten missions full of multiple objectives and this time 
 around, the maps themselves are enormous in size. A nice new feature is the ability to collect 
 pieces to a different picture each mission and if you do end up finding every piece, whether its 
 six pieces or seventeen, youll be awarded a bonus mission to complete after each mission, except 
 mission eight, Saving Private Smith, which for some reason has pieces to collect, but no bonus 
 mission to award for your troubles. These extra missions are based off smaller maps, but the objectives 
 outlined can sometimes seem as tough as the regular missions. Throughout the campaign, youll travel 
 from different locales such as the icebergs of the Arctic, through the Indian villages of Burma 
 which are infested with Japanese, and finally come to the conclusion of the war in Paris at the 
 site of the Eiffel Tower. 
  
  Like the first game and its expansion, your commandos wont be left to complete these almost impossible 
 objectives without equipment. Pyros Studios definitely made this game complete with adding in a 
 ton of different weapons and tools that the commandos are able to use. Some tools/weapons can only 
 be used by certain commandos, but thats what makes this game so challenging. Some of the great 
 tools and weapons that your commandos will be able to utilize are the flame thrower, fish food, 
 a grappling hook, a ladder, sleeping pills, a bazooka, and many other instruments youll have at 
 your disposal as you take out hordes upon hordes of Nazis, whether theyre Japanese or Germans. 
 
  
  But dont worry about having a huge amount of weapons and thinking youll never use them. Youll 
 have plenty of time throughout each different and unique mission of the ten regular missions and 
 nine bonus missions. And if youre new to the Commandos series, there are two tutorial maps thatll 
 help you tone your skills before youre tossed into the thick of the intense moments when youre 
 hidden around a corner of a building out of the line of sight of the enemy waiting for him to turn 
 his back to you. But dont believe that these tutorials are push-over missions, quite the opposite, 
 youre expected to learn how to do well in this game from the get go. And dont believe that youll 
 be given the services of all nine commandos every mission, Pyros Studios isnt that forgiving. 
 Some missions will have only two available, some have more, but by the end of the campaign in Paris, 
 youll be able to control all nine players on the same screen which can be as tedious as it is 
 fun.
  
  The game has an all new 3-D engine, giving the environment the commandos are in a more atmospheric 
 setting. Pyros Studios has added pixels to the commandos making them more detailed and now youre 
 given the ability to enter any building on screen. This is nice and gives the maps much more depth 
 as you can choose on how you want to enter buildings. Maybe you want your thief to climb up the 
 wall into the second story window and see if the floor is clear; then have him drop a ladder for 
 your other commandos to climb up. Or would you rather have your green beret slip into the building 
 silently taking out each Nazi on each floor or even have your sapper throw in some grenades from 
 the outside taking out enemies within. There are just many different ways to go about your different 
 objectives. With the endless possibilities of each mission, Commandos 2: Men of Courage has a lot 
 of replay value. And like its predecessors, if you click on the enemy, youll be given his line 
 of sight so that you might plan out your strategy on how to take him out, whether to creep up on 
 his backside or toss a pack of cigarettes out in front of him to distract him while you toss your 
 knife into his back. There are nicely done cinematic and in-game movies between each mission that 
 help you figure out your objectives, but youre always able to check the interface for different 
 objectives if you forget over the course of the enormous maps. 
  
  The sound has been slightly improved from the first game. The atmospheric sounds of nature ring 
 n your ear as your sapper is sprawled out on the pavement outside the village of Burma trying to 
 get to the religious leader. Some voices of the commandos have been passed over from the first 
 game and new voices were given to the new recruits. The Nazis have pretty much the same voice as 
 they did before. What youll be hearing the most probably is their death cry as you take them out 
 with your Green Beret from behind. The weapons pretty much have the same sounds from before, so 
 nothing much new in the sound department. 
  
  There is a multiplayer for Commandos 2, which is going through the single player campaign cooperatively 
 with another player. But this can only be done if the host player has completed all the missions 
 for the game beforehand. This can add a lot to the game that already has endless possibilities 
 of replay, because of having a human partner who might have different strategies for each level 
 then you do, so in turn you might learn something completely new for each mission.
  
  Overall, any fan of the first game and its expansion will absolutely love the new additions made 
 to this installment in the Commandos series. From the beautifully rendered settings to the multiple 
 ways to complete objectives, Commandos 2: Men of Courage is a game that any puzzle/strategy game 
 lover should at least try. Adding multiplayer to the mix and also a couple new characters, Pyros 
 Studios gave their fan community exactly what they wanted. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Equals42
Rating: 9.2
Date: Sep 1, 2004 1:26 am PT
Review:  I have been playing computer games for twenty years now and I have been writing about them for 
 about fifteen. In that time, I have played bad games and good games. I have been frustrated by 
 bad game designs and I have been amazed by game innovations. I have played the best and the worst. 
 But I cannot ever remember being as frustrated by a game as I have been frustrated by Commandos 
 2: Men of Courage from Pyro Studios and Eidos Interactive. The odd part is that Commandos 2 is 
 excellently designed in all aspects. The frustration comes not from the game design but from the 
 challenge of playing the game. And I loved every minute of it.
  
  I cannot remember playing a game that challenged me at every turn like Commandos 2. Sometimes my 
 strategy was wrong, sometimes my execution, but at no time did I run out of options. Those options, 
 those seemingly infinite possibilities, kept me interested even as my frustration grew. The relief 
 and feeling of accomplishment upon completing each mission was invigorating and visceral. This 
 is a must have experience for any hard core strategy gamer worth their salt. 
  
  As an aside, I would like to emphasize that this game is not for the novice. If your normal speed 
 is Windows Solitaire or Tetris, this is not a game for you. However, if you enjoy an actual gaming 
 challenge in the strategy genre, then you cannot afford to miss Commandos 2.
  
  The premise is quite simple. You are the commander of an elite platoon of World War II commandos. 
 You must lead your commandos through a series of strategic missions that, if successful, will guarantee 
 victory for the Allies. Missions take place in Europe, the Arctic, and the South Pacific. To be 
 considered a success, each mission must be completed with all personnel intact.
  
  The joy of Commandos 2 derives from the elegant manner you complete your mission and solve the 
 puzzles laid before you. It is elegant because there is no right way. Each of your commandos has 
 special attributes for dispatching bad guys and the way you choose to use those attributes is entirely 
 up to you. You may decide to use traps to clear a path to your objectives or you may decide that 
 an ambush would be more effective. Or, maybe you will use a trained mouse or dog to distract the 
 enemy as you move a commando in from behind. In several missions you will have the use of spies 
 which, when dressed in enemy uniforms, can distract guards while other commandos complete their 
 tasks. The key is that you have options and that you must use those options to develop and implement 
 a strategy.
  
  Developing a strategy is the first step. Once you have a strategy in place, you must execute it. 
 And the execution must be nearly perfect or one of your commandos will end up dead and the mission 
 will be a failure. Often your commando will have only seconds to complete a task and return to 
 cover. Failure to do so means a whole heap of trouble in the form of machine gun carrying goose-steppers. 
 The tension and suspense generated will make you squirm in your seat. This is definitely a game 
 that requires the player to save early and often.
  
  The battlefield in Commandos 2 is rendered in beautifully detailed 3D landscapes and interior buildings. 
 The isometric view can be manipulated on the outside maps into one of four directions. Inside buildings, 
 the view can be adjusted to display any direction. This is my one quibble with the game. While 
 it is easy enough to work around, I would have preferred a map that I could view from any angle. 
 A few untimely deaths during play were caused by the viewing angle I had no choice but to use. 
 A little more flexibility would have been a great help in avoiding those problems.
  
  The actual game interface is a minimalists dream. Just a few icons on the side, several keystroke 
 shortcuts to remember, and a few mouse clicks to master. The concept is very intuitive for any 
 experienced gamer. Which is good, because the manual is just a pamphlet that explains the basics 
 but does very little to prepare the player for the strategic headaches that will be presented.
 
  
  From a production standpoint, the game is nearly flawless. Especially noteworthy is the art work. 
 Each mission map is exquisitely detailed and vibrant, with soldiers and civilians moving about 
 oblivious to your commandos as they infiltrate the area using stealth and guile. The sound and 
 music is very good, although I wish my commandos would use a few more phrases when answering my 
 orders. Each commando has three possible answers to every command and they grow old very quickly.
 
  
  Commandos 2: Men of Courage is a very rare game for me. I cannot remember a computer game providing 
 me such a frustratingly wonderful challenge. The integrate missions and the stringent requirements 
 for precision of execution kept me on my mental toes at all times. Nothing like a computer game 
 that stimulates the mind  your logic and your problem solving skills never had such a work out.
 
  
  If you are looking for a game to pleasantly pass the time while you watch television, I suggest 
 you stick to solitaire. If, on the other hand, you are looking for a challenging computer game 
 that will frustrate and delight you, Commandos 2: Men of Courage will fill that bill. And, because 
 the by the time you read this the holidays will be over, I imagine this game will be on sale, which 
 is even better. Dont miss it.
  
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
